237 TEXT-BOOKS, MANUALS, LECTtJUES, ETC. of entire cancroid tubers. By the same.—The treatment of wounded arteries in the forearm. By Dr. Ahlenberg.— Eadical cure of a hydrocele, by suppuration, in a man set. 88. Eesection of the hip- joint. ■ Gastrotomy for the relief of presumed internal obstruction. For- mation of an artificial anus iu the left loin, in sarcomatous obstruc- tion of the rectum. By Dr. Pagenstecher. Hospital 'Reports. Vol. vii. Stm/ical contents.—The surgery of the mouth, pharynx, abdomen, and rectum, including hernia. By T. Bryant.—On syphilitic blotch of the conjunctiva. Case of diabetic cataract. By J. F. France.—Report on pyaemia and some allied affections. By S. "Wilks.—Case of severe mutilation of the forearm, with extensive loss of bone; with practical observations on injuries to the forearm. By E. Cock.—Description of a case of intra-parietal inguinal hernia, with reference to cases which were probably of a similar kind. By J. Birkett.—Case of compound fracture and dislocation of the astragalus. By F. Bryant.—Contribu- tions to the practical surgery of new growths or tumours. Series iv: cysts (continued). By J. Birkett. SpE^fCE, J.—Report of Clinical Cases treated during the Session 1860-61 in the Surgical Wards of tJie Royal Infirmary, under the care of J. Spence. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec, p. 505. This report embraces cases of injuries of the head, tracheotomy, amputations, excisions of joints, hernia, diseases of the genito-urinary organs, tumours, and fractures. Spekce, J.—Report of Clinical Cases treated dti/ring the Session 18_59-6o in the Surgical Wards of the Royal Infirmary. Edin. Med. Joum., Jan., p. 593. This, part 2, comprehends tumours, diseases of bones and joints, and diseases of the genito-urinary organs, together with some miscellaneous cases, and a resume of the principal operations. The table of amputa- tions contains one at the hip-joint, for injuries to the thigh by explo- sion of gunpowder. The patient, set. 38, died. Bryant, T.—The Surgery of the Moutli, Rha7-ynx, andRectmi, including Hernia. Gruy's Hosp. Reports, p. i. An analysis of 940 cases of injuries and diseases of these parts admitted into Guy's Hospital from October ist, 1853, to March 30th, 1851, with practical comments on their surgery. The author tliinks that sublingual cysts probably originate in an obstruction of Eivieri's glands (Birkett, vol. v). He finds that a moderately free opening into the cyst and packing its cavity generally ensure the destruction of the cyst-wall and bring about a cure. In twenty cases of chronic enlargement of the tonsils, excision of one or both was performed. For this operation the guillotine is recom- mended. AVhjere the abdominal viscera are ruptured in contusions of the belly the liver is the viscus most commonly torn. In 50 per cent, of lacerations of the jejunum the rent occurs at its junction with the duo-