ALICALOIDS. shortly afterwards died. It appeared that the bottles containing the two drugs stood side by side in the surgery, and that the labels were illegible. It had been intended to give snntonine as an anthelmintic. SciinLEU.—Poisonviff by Strychnia injected into the Lachrymal Canal. Gaz. de Paris, No. 6, 1861. ... A tenth of a grain of strychnia was introduced at various times into the eye of a man, set. 'Jo, who had suffered from amaurosis, without result, a fact attributable to the slight solubility of the alkaloid. Thereupon one twentieth grain was injected into the lachrymal canal. From three to four minutes after, the countenance became blue and pale, and the patient had spasmodic twitchings, vertigo, and an inclination to fall forward. Soon after, there Avere complete aphonia, difBcult and interrupted breathing, and tetanic shudderings, all of which symptoms declined in half an hour. TiLLlER.—Strychnia in Diphtheritic Paralysis. Ann. de Ther., p. 31. In the paper several cases are given illustrative of the good effect of combining strychnia with iron, although the latter alone was unsuccessful. Quina. KbsTER.—On the Action of Sulphate of Quina. Med. Ztg. Russlands, No. 37, i860. The author made experiments on himself under the direction of Dr. Booker, from which he concludes that the analysis of the urine discharged within sixteen hours of the exhibition of the drug affords no evidence of increase or diminution of the quantity of any constituent of that excre- tion. The results, however, afford no proof that the exchange of material is unaffected by quinine, for in several respects the products of the metamorphosis of tissues cannot as yet be accurately measured, and, moreover, in this instance no attempt was made to determine the excreta of the lungs, skin, or liver. It therefore remains an open question whether or not quinine exercises any influence on the processes of organic life. Coffein. Cellahier.—Neio observation on the action of Coffee in Strangulated Hernia. Bull, de Thcr.,vol. Ixi, p. 270. Coffee has of late attracted much attention in France, as an auxiliary (0 the taxis. With a view to the special application, M. Cellarier treats of its general therapeutical actions in large doses. He is of opinion that most of the phenomena observed are referable to its power of inducing muscular contraction, particularly of the muscular fibre of organic life. Thus we may account for the increased firmness of the pulse and strength of the impulse of the heart observable after moderate doses, and the tumultuous excitement of the circulation produced by larger quantities. The action of coffee as an antidote to opium admits of the same explanation. The author holds that its " marvellous" effects in hernia are due to its power of exciting contractions in the strangulated intestine, by which reduction is favoured or determined. KuBZAK.—Ore the action of Cofein on Animals. Wien. Ztsch., vol. iii, p. 40. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 172.