67 ORGANS OF SENSE. is so true that, given the distance of the long focus and the age of the person, a knowledge (by Bonders' law) of the power of accommodation proper to that age enables us to calculate the distance of the short iocus. Gibaud-Teuion.—On the Movements of Lateral Decentratioti of' the Crystalline Jjyparatiis. Comptes rendus, 1861, March 4th, p. 383. The author argues that the muscular ring in which the crystalline lens hangs sufSciently indicates that the latter is not, as has been hitherto assumed, merely a passive fixture in the globe of the eye, but a body possessing in its movements a certain independence of the external muscles of the eyeball. He states, indeed, that he has, by observing the changes undergone in reflected images, experimentally determined that in the passage from monocular instrumental vision to binocular vision the lens experiences such alterations in form and situation as are adapted to eifect the coalescence of double images. Vallee, L. L.—Note on the Theory of Vision. Comptes rendus, 1861, April 8th, p. 702, and May 20th, p. 1020. Magendie found that a taper moved further and further from the extirpated eye of an albino rabbit gives an image which continues of imiform intensity, instead of varying, according to optical laws, inversely to tlie square of the distance. Magendie thought that this fact would overturn all the ordinary theories of vision. The simple fact is, hovsr- ever, says M. Vallee, that none of the current theories recognise the real tenuity of the efl&cient pencils of light, or that the field of vision open to the human eye would not exceed two or three hundred metres if those pencils all occupied the entire pupil. ToxjTBEE.—On the Action of the JEustachian Tube in Man. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 29th, p. 334. At the meeting of the British Association Mr. Toynbee stated that the Eustachian tube is always closed except during the act of deglu- tition. In proof of this he showed that, by filling the mouth and chest with air, closing the mouth and nostrils, and making a forcible efi'ort at expiration, a sensation of fulness is produced in the ear, due to the pressure of the air enclosed in the tympanic can ity. The sen- sation continuing until an act of swallowing is accomplished, when, the tube being opened, the air escapes and the feeling of oppression vanishes. Mi.QSVs.—Contributions to the Anatomy of the Middle Ear. Yii-chow'a Archiv, vol xx. Parts 1 and 2. Canst., vol. i, pp. 97, 178. The principal results of the author's researches are that—(i) The long process of the malleus is a structm-e originally distinct from the malleus, and is not preformed in cartilage. (2) The articulation between malleus and incus is a synarthrosis. (3) The ligaments of the malleus, reckoning the tympanum as one, are equally tense in every direction. (4) The tensor tympani is firmly attached to the bone where it bends over it. (5) The ossicula arc, therefore, not susceptible of special loco-