RESPIRATOUY SYS'lKJr. 209 Fountain, after 01. Morrh. and iron had failed, administered in one marked case 5^^s daily for six weeks, and 5ij daily for four weeks more, with the result of complete recovery^ ^ Rui.LMANN.—0« the Therapeutic Influence of the Southern Climatic Sanatoria, parlicularhj with reference to Chronic Tuberculosis of the Lungs. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., May, 1861. RuUmann considers that such sanatoria are certainly useful in chronic bronchial catarrh and chronic pulmonary tuberculosis of patients from the northern and central parts of Europe. They should, however, only be used as winter residences. Summer in these places, and still more tropical heats, are often very pernicious, by developing and aggravating such diseases. Jloist and moderately warm climates are more suitable to cases of disease attended with a sensitive state of the bronchial mucous mem- brane, viscid expectoration, frequent and dry cough, and an easily excitable condition of the vascular and nervous systems. Dry and moderately warm climates appear to be secretion-limiting, tonic, gently exciting, and especially promotive of the general nutrition, and are, therefore, suited to the more torpid forms of disease. Garimoni).—Statistics of the Montpellier Hospitals, with respect to the influence of Climate on the development and progress of Pulmonary Phthisis. Gaz. Med. de Paris, i860, Nos. i, 2. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211. Garimond's figures show that the Mediterranean coast, and especially" that part to which Montpellier belongs, really exercises a favorable influence on chest affections, and especially on phthisis. WuNDERLTCH.—The curability of Acute Miliary Tuberculosis. Arch. d. Heilk., i, 4, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 211. "Wunderlich insists on the possibility of distinguishing acute miliary tuberculosis from typhus by means of temperature observations methodi- cally conducted. The disease in question commences gradually, the fever does not increase regularly as in typhus, the pulse is not so constantly di- crotous, and the same difference in the sitting and lying postures is not perceptiljle. Herpes labialis may be present, or the tongue may be unusually clean, the type of respiration may be unusual, the spleen may not enlarge, diarrhoea and roseolous eruption be absent, while there is notable sweating and highly sedimentary urine. After the disease has lasted some time there begins, what Wunderlich calls " the amphibolous stage," in which there is an alternation and a mingling of partial bad symptoms. The fever may persist, or considerably remit, the patients become very emaciated and pallid, there is great thirst, often distressing cough, more or less dyspnoea, and cerebral disorder. Inflammatory changes of limited extent take place in the lungs, and predominate during this period. Some absorbent glands enlarge, and there is a remarkable tendency to lisemorrhagcs and to thromboses. This stage may last several weeks, and either gradually give way to returning health, or be succeeded by a stormy outburst of bad symptoms ending in death, or pass into a condition of chronic tuberculosis.