GEXITO-URINAUY SYSTEM. 101 ofii hydrocele, along with iron and manganese. When boiled down with nitric acid, the vapour of the residue gives off a powerful odour of nitro- benzoin. Neubaueb.—Contribitiions to ihc Analijsis of the Urine. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, vol. V, p. 319. Canst., vol. i, p. 253. From a series of inquiries this chemist computes the daily amount of cre<itine discharged by healthy adults to be about eight grains. Stockrts, D. .J. E.—The Ph/.'siolocji/ of Uric Acid. Archiv v. Bonders u. Berlin, vol. ii, part 3, p. 260. Canst., vol. i, p. 251. In order to ascertain whether uric acid becomes transformed into urea, the author, whilst maintaining a uniform diet, took several doses of urates, carefully determining, before and after the experiments, the amounts of uric acid and urea in the urine. He concludes, from the results obtained, thnt uric acid does become metamorphosed into urea within the organism, and the seat of that metamorphosis he believes (from experiments with, the liver of animals) to be the liver. WiTTicii.—On Secretion of Urine in Babbits. Schmidt, vol. 108, No. 12. Canst., vol. i, p. 139. The author observes that, in the rabbit's kidney, nerves with numerous ganglia may be traced as far as the cortical substance. Extirpation of the renal nerve or plexus, or of an entire kidney, was not found to cause hsematuria or to aSect the quantity of the urine, which, in the rabbit, nor- mally contains albumen. Hetn-sitjs.—On Diffusion of Albumen. Bonder's Archiv, vol. iv, part 3. Canst., vol. i, pp. 3, 109. The author finds that the exosmosis of an albuminous to a saline solu- tion is retarded by acidity and accelerated by alkalinity on the part of the latter. He infers from this that the acidity of the fluid bathing the renal glomeruli prevents the transudation of more albumen than Bu°ffices for the nutrition of the epithelial cells, whilst it facilitates the regress of water from the cnnaliculi into the blood, as required in Ludwio-'s theory. ° Levy, .T.—Om the Seminal Vesicles of Man. 8vo, G-riefswald, 18-to. Canst., vol. i, p. 205. After an examination of seventy-eight bodies, the writer, whose inquiries •were supermtended by Budge, comes to the conclusion (expressed long smce by John Hunter), that those structures do not constitute reservoirs ior the semen, but are secretory organs, into which that fluid accidentally passes m tnflmg amount. Their contents are, in elderly persons, always alkalme, and contain much albumen. Davis Geouge.—C%Zow* Urine cured by Iodide ofPota-rnvm. Madras Med. Journ., i860. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 12th A man, ajfc^ 33, who had passed for three years urine resembling milk, was seen, m September, 1858, with rheumatism ; the urine was then devoid of urmous odour, milky in appearance, and deposited, on boiling, a white.