16 KEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. transversely and longitudinally by two distinct substances, differing very remarkably in their comportment towards reagents. IIaeless, E.—(i) On the Chemical Altcralion of the Muscular Juice Warmth and Movement. Bayer. Aer/.tl. lutell. BL, i860, March. (2) Besearchcs on Muscular Substance. Siz.-ber d. Bayer. Acad., p. 94. Canst, vol. i, pp. 152, 243. Tlie author found that—(i) The fluid freshly expressed from muscle or extracted from it by water, precipitates (at about 11.3° in the case of mammals, and about 95° in that of frogs) a substance essentially similar to casein. (2) In the intact muscle tbis substance coagulates, after the circulation has ceased, by the influence of an acid which the ab.sence of a current of blood permits to accumulate. (3) The amount of this acid depends («) on the period which has elapsed since death occurred ; (i) on the species of the animal, and its condition before death ; and (c) on the temperature, being somewhat inci-eased by its reduction and much more so by its elevation. (4) The acid is not volatile, and is extracted by water, but not by alcohol. It is proved not to be phos- phoric acid. (5) The acid fermentation is favoured by moderate degrees of warmth and galvanism. (6) During life the acid is constantly neutralized by the alkalinity of the blood. (7) Eigor mortis depends upon the combined effects of the coagulation of the albuminoid substance and the operation of the free acid in impairing the elasticity and pliancy of the muscles. (8) The presence of free acid enhances the susceptibility of muscles to irritants, whence the increased irritability of muscles which are ill-supplied with blood. AuERBACH, L.—On Muscular Contractions caused hy Mechanical Irrita- tion in the Living Subject. Ber. d. Med. Sect. d. schles. GeseUsch., 1859, i860, p. 32. Canst., vol. i, p. 162. The author suggests that the contractions excited in muscles by per- cussing them is the essential result obtained by the tapping and beating which form part of the Swedish medical gymrfastics. In two among more than one hundred persons examined, the contraction was observed to progress in undulations towards the ends of the muscle. One of the persons was suffering from tuberculosis, the other from the eflects of ex- cessive exertion. Ettingee, r. Gr.—The Eelations of the Blood to Muscular Irritability. 8vo, Niirnberg, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 153. In experiments carried on with Harless the author found that frogs' muscles, from which the blood had been removed in considerable quantity, were far more irritable than those well supplied with it, although the latter more quickly recovered from fatigue than the anajmic muscles. KuHNE, W.—(i) Mi/olof/ical Inquiries. 8vo, Leipzig, i860. (2) On the Chemical Irritation of Muscles and Nerves, and its import with regard to the qiiestion of Irritability. Verb. d. sachs. GeseUsch., i860, p. 315. (3) Inquiries on Movements and Alterations of the Contractile Sub- stance. Verb. d. sachs. GeseUsch., 1859, p. 564. (4) On Porrefs Phenomenon in Muscle. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1860, p. 542. Canst., vol. i, pp. 46, 54, 152.