48 NEUVOUS SYSTEM. and their ultimate connexion with the contractile substance, this ob- server has microscopically examined the muscles of batrachians, fishes, birds, mammals and man, and has arrived at the following results:—(i) Every primitive fibre entering a muscle soon divides in two. (2) All these secondary fibres again divide after separating from the intermus- cular filaments. (3) Another subdivision takes place when the last- mentioned filaments reach a muscular fibre. (4) From this last division ten or twenty branches spring. Here the ultimate termination of a motor nerve may invariably be found. On tracing these branches, which are aggregated in great mimbers on minute portions of the mus- cular fibre, it is found that—(a) The neurolemma constantly joins the sarcolemma, and thus far the nuclei of the envelope are observable, (h) The double contour of the nerve produced by its medullary envelope abruptly ceases, (c) The axis cylinder here passes beneath the sarco- lemma and comes into direct contact with the contractile substance. (d) The axis cylinder then becomes broader in parts where it is provided •with small highly granular bodies, called by the author the ^;e»v^jAe;v'c nervov.s nodules, (e) When the intramuscular axis cylinder is short, ifc ends with one of these corpuscles. When long, it possesses several such bodies, and generally ends with a very distinct point between the strite. The nodules form part and parcel of the axis cylinder, and vary from -YTiVo *o Too ^ millimeter. They never exhibit niicleoli, and by their agency the axis cyliuder of the motor nerve is in intimate contact with the contractile substance, into which the granulations penetrate. Hahi-ess, E.—Molecular Processes in ISferve Suhsfance. Third part: Mensuration of IrritahiUtI/. Munich, i860,4to. Canst., vol. i, pp. 21, 182. This continuation of the woi'k reported in 'Year-Book,' Vol. ii, p. 48, is chiefly occupied with the description of a delicate but complicated mecha- nism, designed to measure with extraordinary precision the irritability of nerves. It was observed that when one electric shock was quickly suc- ceeded by another, the muscular inertia yielded most readily to the second, i.e., the muscle responded to a weaker current than was required to excite it at fii-st. Harless, E.—(i) Neuro-iTliysiological Inquiries. Zurich, i860, 8vo. (2) On the Influence of Temperatures and their variations on the Motor Nerves. Ztschr. f. rat. Med., i860, p. 122. Canst., vol. i, pp. 18, 183. The author found that—(i) When'a nerve is reduced to a temperature between 14° and 32°, the muscle it supplies is seized with spasms, attributed by the author to pressure on the white substance of the nerve caused by the coagulation of the enveloping structures. (2) Heating the nerve to nearly 95" does not alter the irritability, which, liowcver, at a heat of 100", suffers a sudden diminution, referable to the melting of the nervous fat, shown to occur at that temperature. At this, heat it is also observed that the direction of the nen^ous current may be reversed. (3) Between 133° and 140° the nerve becomes iusen-