MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, LECTURES, ETC. 7 These points were all fully elaborated, and many of _ the modem views, such as the view that the iron of the blood-cells is the carrier of oxygen for the production of heat in the systemic cii-cuit were closely combated. The last proposition Avas left for the concluding lecture of the course. The lecture on this occasion opened with an experiment. An animal destroyed before the lecture hour by chloroform was placed on the table, and a tube inserted in the aorta. Water of a temperature of 115° was then slowly injected, when the limbs, as well as the muscles of the trunk and neck, underwent rapid and vigorous movement. Helmholtz, Prof.—On the application of the Law of Conservation of Force to Organic Nature. Proc. Eoy. Inst., and Med. Times and Gaz., June ist, p. ^6g. In a lecture delivered at the Eoyal Institution, Helmholtz remarks that the most important progress in natural philosophy by which the present century is distinguished has been the discovery of a general law which embraces and rules all the various branches of pbysics, che- mistry, and pbysiology. This law at present is commonly known by the name of " tbe principle of conservation of force." It might be better, perhaps, to call it, with Mr. Eankine, " the conservation of energy." The meaning of the law of conservation of energy may be ex- pressed by saying that every force in nature, when it effects any alteration, loses and exhausts its faculty to effect the same alteration a second time. But while, by every alteration in nature, that force which liaa been the cause of this alteration is exhausted, there is always another force which gains as much power of producing new alterations in natiu'e as the iirst has lost. Although, therefoi'e, it is the nature of all inorganic forces to become exhausted by their own working, the power of the whole system in which these alterations take place is neither exhausted nor increased in quantity, but only changed in form. Some special examples will render this law more easily understood than any general theories. To commence with gravity, that most general force, which not only exerts its influence over the whole universe, but which, at the same time, is the means of moving a great number of our machines. By the force of a falling weight another weight can be raised, as, for example, the falling water in a water-mill may raise the weight of a hammer. The amount of work cannot, however, be gi-eater than the product of the weight of water which is falling down, and the height from which it falls. There is another form of mechanical motive power—velocity. The velocity of any body in this sense, if it is producing work, is called vis viva, or the living force of that body. There are many examples of it—for instance, the ball of a gun. "When shot off, with great velocity, it has an immense power of de- stroying, but when it has lost its velocity, is quite powerless. In the same sense, the velocity of the air is motive power, for it can drive windmills, and by the machinery of the windmills do every kind of mechanical work. Therefore, velocity in itself is a motive force. Another example is the elasticity of a bent spring. It can do work, it can move machines. The springs of the watch and cross-bow, for