444 RKPOKT ON FOnENSIC MEDICINE. bodilj' peculiarity, in the absence of which it might have been otherwise. Following out these views, he proposes to divide actually fatal injuries into two classes, viz.—(i) Injuries necessarily fatal by their general nature, whether (a) directly; (6) by virtue of a co-operative cause called into exercise by them {e.g. consecutive suppuration in cases of fracture of the cranium) ; {c) by peculiarity in the bodily constitution of the injured persons {e.g. thinness of the skull, by reason of which a blow, insufii- cient to produce fracture of a normal skull, did so in the case in question) ; or {d) by the combination of b and c—(2) Injuries rendered fatal by accidental external circumstances {e.g. neglect to call in medical assistance, &c.). Fkickhoeffer.—Medico-legal opinion on the body of a Man killed by a Gunshot Wound. Henke, part i, p. 171, 1861. A forester left his home on the i8th of August, with the declared intention of going to mow some grass at a farm which he rented, and thence to proceed to his duty as watcher in the forest. On the following morning he was found at the farm, at some distance from his scythe, lying on his face in a pool of blood. The injuries found had the charac- ters of gunshot wounds. On the back twelve wounds were observed, situated within a space extending from the third dorsal to the first lumbar vertebra, and from the lower angle of the left to that of the right scapula. In a position corresponding to the articulation of the ninth rib there was a round wound, with torn, inverted margins. It was surrounded by a ring of redness, and contained half fluid, dark blood % there was swelling and sugiilation of the neighbouring parts. In front, between the third and fourth cartilages, near their junction with the sternum on the right side, there was a round wound, with everted red and sugillated edges. On dissection, it was found that the bullet had in its course penetrated all three lobes of the right lung, carrying with it splinters of bone and fragments of clothing. The twelve smaller wounds were pro- duced by shot (described as No. o), which p'enetrated both lungs, the heart, diaphragm, liver, and right kidney. From the direction of the wound, suicide was out of the question ; a crime had been committed, the author of which was discovered by the following remarkable indica- tions :—There resided in the same village another forester, who owed the deceased a grudge, on account of his having been appointed to a situation of which he had himself been deprived for misconduct; it happened that this man had lost his right arm, but was a dead shot with his left. On examining the ground in the neighbourhood of the corpus delicti, a tree, which had been hit by a ball, was found at twenty paces distance, of which the position exactly corresponded to the apparent direction of the shot. In pursuing the examination, in a line drawn from the tree through the body, a bush was arrived at, behind which the ground was indented by footsteps, in such relative positions that the individual must have stood with the right foot forwards, the left behind and crosswise; iu fact, in the position which he must have assumed, supposing him to have fired from the left shoulder. On this evidence he was condemned to penal confinement for life.