EEPOUT ON MIDAVIFERY, ETC. 804 stridulus, these nre some of the more important signs. It is only when very large that the presence of tubercles in these glands can be actually ascertained. West, Dr. Chaules.—On Cerebral Symptoms independent of Cerebral Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., April 6th, 1861, p. 353. In this lecture the .nuthor calls attention to symptoms of disturbance of the nervous system arising during the course of various chronic ailments. Those folio\Ying on convalescence from some serious illness, such as typhoid fever, are first alluded to. Overtaxing of the mental powers in the case of weak children may give rise to cerebral symptoms. Intense headache of neuralgic character is witnessed in dyspeptic children during the second dentition period ; here the symptoms frequently resemble those of the first stage of tubercular meningitis. The diagnosis of such cases is pointed out. Another large class of cases are those in which con- vulsions occur. These are frequently due to ascarides ; tlie author calls particular attention to the fact that in a certain number of cases they occur concomitantly with the second dentition just as they occur in the first. Chorea presents occasionally difiBculty in a diagnostic point of view. A symptom the author has observed two or three times, not as yet described, is an involuntary sighing respiration, which did not appear to be connected with cerebral disease. Lastly, essential paralyses, not dependent on cerebral disorder, are alluded to. West, Dr. Charles.—On Cerebral Disease unattended by Cerebral Symptoms, Med. Times and Gaz., April. 20th, p. 409. The tiuthor calls attention to cases in which the disease of the brain is marked by the absence of oi'dinary symptoms. Thus cases are related of tubercular meningitis with absence of usual premonitory symptoms ; the importance, in a diagnostic point of view, of steady persistence of any one symptom, such as sickness, headache, constipation, drowsiness, heat of head, &c., is insisted on in reference to this disease. Persistent pain is most of all important. It is further pointed out that the occasional rapid advance of the disease in subjects of phthisical constitution is a source of error in diagnosis ; and that in chi'onic tubercular disease the symp- toms are not seldom very obscure. Wertheimber.—TheHydrocephaloidDisease of Lifants. Jahrb. f. Kind., iv, I, 1861, p. 43. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 57. The anatomical character of the disease is an anosmia of the brain and venous stasis in the cerebral sinuses. In the acute form the brain is dry, in the chronic form it is moist, ccdematons. There is a stage of cerebral hyper£Esthesia followed by one of cerebral torpor, the first characterised by restlessness, crying, want of sleep, screaming, moaning, weak, fre- quent pulse, pallor, with slight lividity, convulsive movement of muscles, feverishness, boring of head in pillow, application of hand to head, &c. In the second stage come somnolence, passing on to deeper coma, general eclamptic attacks, sometimes tetanic: convulsions may be absent. The prognosis is worst in the chronic form in its second stage. The treatment of the different varieties of the disease is next discussed.