LACERATION OF THE PBRINJ^UM. 345 LACERATION OF THE PERINmTM DURING LABOUR. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—On " Supportinr/ the PerincBtun practical con- siderations respecting the causes and jvevention of laceration of the perinceum during labour. 8vo, London, Churchill, 1861, pp. 70. The operation known as "supporting the perinseum " during labour, and practised with a view to prevent the occurrence of laceration, is the subject of this essay, the object of which is to determine, by analysis of the operation itself and of its effects, whether it really effects the pur- pose intended. Having first shown, by reference to the teaching of various obstetric authorities, that, respecting the rationale of the action of the operation in question, opinions the most contradictory are maintained, the author proceeds to examine the effects produced by the operation, —(i) on the head of the child, and (2) on the perinseum itself. The con- clusions arrived at are that, as regards one supposed effect—retardation of the head—it is very questionable whether it is produced at all; under some circumstances quite the opposite effect resulting, and that the sup- posed advantage of the operation in directing the head forwards is imaginary. An analysis of the action of the operation on the perineal structures themselves shows that, so far from the operation being useful in preventing laceration, the effect is quite the reverse; that the dilatation in the natural direction is actually interfered with ; and that the safeguard from laceration—gradual and natural expansion of the structures by the equable and proper pressure of the foetal head—is removed. As regards the " causes " of perineal laceration, it is contended that, wliile unusual rapidity of labour is one of the principal of them, the accident has a different cause in different cases. The author believes that " sup- porting the perinseum" as preventive of laceration is certainly worthless, and may in some cases be suspected of having produced what it was intended to prevent: the proper treatment of the perinseum in labour is to abstain from all active interference of any kind. Precautions recom- mended are, to see that there is no impediment, by closure of legs, &c., to passage of head forwards after passing the outlet. Where the perinseum is not elastic—elasticity being regarded as a condition of safety—and labour action is very violent, retarding pressure against the head itself may prove useful. If laceration be actually threatened, short incisions of the perineal structures on each side of, and at a short distance from, tho fourchette are recommended. Murphy, Dr.—On Supporting the PerincBum. Brit. Med. Journ., April 20, 1861, p. 426. The object of supporting the perinseum is—(i) to prevent or aUay irrita- tion and to diminish congestion, so that the act of dilatation may not be interfered with ; (2) to counteract too violent action of the uterus. The tissues of the cervix uteri and the perinseum have, the author says, a power of expansion independent of the force employed against them. ' Gray, Dr. James. —Ore Laceration of the Perinceum. Brit. Med. Journ., June 32nd, 1861, p. 654. It is here contended that the varying position, length, and relation to