89 NEEVOTJS SYSTEM. than before; whilst it is induced by change to a colder one. After a large dose the converse effect is observed. It is also found that the tetanus caused bj' strychnine ceases when the frog is brought within the circle of an induced current, itself capable of causing tetanus. Chauveai".—0)1 tlie Convulsions of the Muscles of Animal Life; and on tlie signs of sensibility produced in tJve liorse hy localized me- chanical irritation of the surface of the spinal cord. Comptes Eendus, 4th Feb., 1861, p. 209. From the author's experiments on twenty-four horses it results that —(i) When the cord and encephalon are disconnected by a section inade in the dorsal or occipital region, and animal life maintained by artificial insufflation of the limgs, irritation of the antero-lateral surface of the exposed cord in the upper lumbar region is not followed by any contractions or signs of pain. On the other hand, the merest touch of the anterior roots of the nerves is followed by contractions in the muscles supplied by them, (a) However lightly the needle (the ex- periments were performed with a sharp-pointed needle) be applied to the posterior surface of the cord it never fails to induce involuntary contractions, in every respect similar to those which ensue from exci- tation of the corresponding roots of the nerves. (3) The extent of the muscular contractions is in proportion to the intensity of the irrita- tion employed. They may be limited to the vicinity of the seat of ex- periment, or propagated throughout the whole body. (4) Irritation of the sides of the cord generally induces movements exclusively on the side to which the stimulus has been applied ; when they occur on both sides of the body, those on the opposite side are always least energetic. (5) As the irritation is carried outwards from the median sulcus towards the side, the contractions are found to increase in vehemence, but when once the line of exit of the sensitive roots is overstepped the movements abruptly cease. As regards the second series of ex- periments, in which the spinal cord was not divided before the applica- tion of the mechanical irritation to its surface, the author found that irritation effected in the dorso-lumbar or upper cervical region yielded results identical with those just enumerated, but the movements were now attended by evidences of exquisite pain. Eesults similar to these (which, as the author admits, are not altogether new) were obtained in the sheep, goat, and rabbit. Colin.—On the different Degrees of Sensihility of the Ganglia and Fila- ments of the Bympathetic. Comptes Eendus, May 13th, i86r, p. 969. The results of the author's experiments are—(i) The ganglia of the great sympathetic are all sensible; the semi-lunar and thoracic much more so than the superior cervical. (2) The most voluminous ganglia seem more sensible in their thick homogeneous-looking portions than in those which are thin, striated, and plexiform. (3) Their sen- sibility is better elicited by pinching than by piercing, cutting, or cauterizing. (4) Irritation, if powerful, is perceived immediately; but It It be leeble some seconds elapse before its effects are observed.