258 REPOET ON SURGEEY. AMPUTATION. (a) General Beporis, Essays, Sfc. HuTOniNSON.—Statistical lieport of Anqmiations performed in Pro- vincial Ilosjjitals during the year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., April 20th, p. 416; April 27tli, p. 442. COOPEK and Holmes.—Statistics of Amputations at St. George's Hos- pital during seven years. Med. Times and Gaz., April 6tn, p. 338. Tealb, T. p.—Statistics of Amputations at tlie Leeds General Infirmary during eiglit years. Med. Times and Gaz., July 6tli, p. 5. This report contains an analysis of 189 amputations, forty-five of which were fatal, and an interesting comparison of the relative value of the circular, double flap, and rectangiilar methods of amputating. PoiJCHEE.—On Laugier^s Method of Bandaging Amputation Stump)s. Gaz. des Hop., 138, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 74. Poucher recommends this method, which consists in the application of two splints of cork that project beyond the end of the stump, and are deeply notched, the fingers being pierced for a tape with which each pair of fingers is tied together. These splints are intended to fix the soft parts, and keep the edges of the wound in good apposition. Pembeeton, 0.—On Amputation hy Mectangular Flaps, Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 21st, p. 631. A critical review of Teale's method of amputating, with statistics of twenty-two cases where this had been followed, and of twenty-two cases where the ordinary flap or circular amputations had been performed. Hexfeldee, J. F.—Amputations ivith preservation of the Periosteum for covering the ends of the sawn Pones. . Bull, de I'Acad. Eoy. de Med. de Belgique, deuxifeme serie, vol. iv, No. 3, p. 165. The periosteum can be more easily preserved in flap than in circular amputations. In a healthy state it is not easily separated from the bone, and sometimes is torn, but this does not appear to influence the result. EoTTX, J.—On Secondary Amputation after Chinshot Wounds. Gaz. des Hop., 50, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 74. Eoux was, during the Italian campaign, superintendent of the Hos- pital of Mary, in St. Maudrier, in the roads of Toulon, which received more than 2000 wounded and nearly 3000 fever patients. 220 men had undergone amputation on the battle-field, or in the ambulances and nearest hospitals. Twenty-six secondary amputations were performed by Eoux. In every shot-woimd two circumstances come into conside- ration—ist, the injury; 2ndly, the consecutive inflammation which developes itself in the soft parts and bones. Inflammation of the medullary membrane, osteo-myelitis, occui-s when a bone has been bruised or crushed, especially if the shot has struck the spongy tissue of the short bones, or the extremity of a long bone, or the medullary