377 DISEASES OF WOMEN. short, the uterus large and full of menstrual blood. The vagina was first lengthened a little by cutting and by use of tents ; a trochar was then used, and the uterus emptied. Subsequently, it appeared that the uterus had been opened behind the cervix, for the patient afterwards menstruated per rectum. Recovery perfect, Bx-RBiEm.— Conffenital Atresia of the Vagina, with probable absence of the Uterus and Ovaries. Gaz. Hebd., Sep. 27th, 1861, from Bull, delle Sc. Med. Breasts well developed ; mons Veneris prominent, covered with hairs. No menstruation or supplementary hfemorrhages. Patient aged twenty- seven. Vagina entirely absent. Geaf.—Atresia of the Vagina, with abnormal Me7istrual-path. Virch. Arch., i860. Brit, and F. M.-C. Rev., April, 1861, p. 550. Sims, Dr. Mabion.—On Vaginismus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Under this term the author designates an involuntary spasmodic closure of the mouth of the vagina: the parts are so extremely sensitive as to ojffer an almost insuperable obstacle to intercourse. Cases are related in which the affection was present, and in which the treatment adopted and recommended was successful. It consists in removal of the hymen, incision, and subsequent dilatation of the vaginal orifice. Debout.—On Spasmodic Contraction of the Vaginal Sphincter, and its treatment. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 110. Debout relates particulars of cases which he has observed, and quotes others. His conclusions are:—(i) That spasmodic contraction of the vaginal sphincter must be admitted as one of the diseases to which the vulva is liable. (2) That after removing the cause dilatation is the proper treatment, although the cutting operation is more speedy. (3) Bladders of caoutchouc are the best means of dilatation. (4) If the sphincter be divided, it should be done on both sides, near the vulvar commissure. Debout.—Further remarks on the Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter of the Vagina, with neto cases. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 300. MiCHON.—On a rather rare and generally little-recognised Affection of the Vaginal Orifice. Bull, de Ther., 1861, vol. ii, p. 154. The author relates eleven cases in which extreme sensibility and con- traction of the vulvar orifice existed. A simple operation was successful, consisting of incising the vulva near the commissure in three places, in- serting a tent, and maintaining the dilatation for some days. Simpson, Prof.—Painful Muscular and Fascial Contractions along the Vaginal Canal—Vaginodynia. Ed. Med. Journ., Dec, 1861, p. 594^ Appia.—On Hypertrophy of the Clitoris; case cured by ligature in twenty-four days. Journ. de Brux., Aug., 1861, p. 14a. The patient was fifty-eight years old; the tumour, of very considerable size, had been growing for ten years. It was removed by a combined process of cutting and tying. Cabadec —CmWom* ca«e of Fibro-plast.ic Tumour of the Clitoris, in a young woman cet. 24 years; removal. L'Un., Oct. 17th, 1861.