EEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 from one to six weeks. Within the first week a certain diagnosis may often be made by tlie thermometer alone, as the temperature rises in (he following characteristic manner, shown in the table: Initial Stage of Typhoid Fever. Morning. Evening. First (lay 98.3° F. 100.6° F. Second day 99-4° 101.7" Third , 100.6° 102.8° Fourth „ 101.7° 104° In the second half of the first week the evening temperature remains at 103.3° F'llii"- or 104°, while the morning temperature is 1.125° Fahr. less. There is no typhoid fever when the temperature rises to 104° Fahr. on the first or second day of the illness; when the evening temperature in a child or in an adult does not rise to 103.3° Fahr. between the fourth and si.\th days ; when during the second half of the first week, a considerable or progressive decrease in the evening temperature lakes place. On the other hand, if the case be apparently one of mild indisposition, we may, by finding the temperature permanently increasing, especially in the evening, be led to assume the existence of typhoid fever. Regarding prognosis, it may be said that an enormous increase of temperature in the first week indicates a very severe disease and great danger. Irregularities in the course of temperature during the first week are always a very bnd sign. During the second week the diagnosis may be made of no typhoid fever if the temperature is, on one or several evenings between the eighth and eleventh day, below 103.3° Fahr., and the mild or severe form of the disease, and its probable course, may be ascertained at a time when no other symptom can give a decisive clue in this respect. If the second week appears favorable, the third week will be sfill more so, and conva- lescence will begin in the latter, or at all events in the fourth week. If, on the contrary, the second week is severe, there will be no decided im- provement in the third, and the course will be very dangerous. Every irregularity in the second week is awkward, temporary remissions as well as exacerbations. In such cases the further course of the disease is also generally irregular ; and though rapid recovery may sometimes take place, even under these circumstances, relapses, fresh exacerbations, complica- tions, and hypostrophes, are more frequent. It is also an especially unfavorable sign when there is no trace of remission in the second week, even if the morning temperature does not exceed that of the evening. It is a certain sign that the course will be very severe if the morning temperature is at or above 104° Fahr., and if the evening is at 106° Fahr., especially if the increase is considerable towards the end of the week; and it is a most dangerous sign if these symptoms alternate with sudden remissions. The approach of death is more certainly shown by the state of the temperature than by any other symptom. There is either an unusual increase of temperature (above 106° Fahr.) in the period of acme, or there is a sudden increase to 108° Fahr. or more; or there is a sudden and very considerable fall of temperature (96° Fahr., and below), together with great coUapsus ; or there is in the period of healing a decrease of temperature, which is in contrast with the other symptoms.