OSSEOUS SYSTEM. 11 takes place more below than above. As regards tbe lower extremity tlie reverse is observed, thus— 3d. The femiu", which is the analogue of the humerus, grows more at its lower than at its upper end. 4th. The tibia, on the contrary, increases chiefly at its upper part. It thus appears that in long bones the growth is most vigorous at the extremity where the epiphysis remains longest free, a fact which the author does not, however, look upon as the mere mechanical result of fusion of the opposite epiphysis, for this preponderance of the growth of the bone in one direction takes place even before either of the epiphyses has become united to the bone. Neither is it the result of the direc- tion of the nutritious artery, for that varies in different species of animals, while the above-mentioned law of growth remains unchanged. The practical inferences from these data are that the resection of the elbow-joint, in the growing individual, will entail no great eventual abridgment, whilst in the resection of the knee-joint the efiects will be much more marked. By the same rule, excision of the shoulder-joint will shorten the limb relatively more than that of the hip-joint, and resection of the wrist more than that of the ankle. See also ' Journ. de la Phys.,' Jan., 1861, p. 87, and— BEOWif-SEQTJARD's Bemarks on the preceding Memoir. lb., p. 137. FiiOTTREiTS.—Note on tlie Lo7igitudinal Development of Bones. Compt. E.endus, Feb. 4th, 1861, p. 186. In this communication the perpetual secretary of the Academy re- capitulates his old experiments on the growth of bones, and, in refer- ence to Ollier's observations, remarks that each end of every bone, in a definite degree, contributes to the lengthening of the bone, and insists on the complete dependence of this law on the invariable periods at which the epiphyses of shafts become incorporated. Contrary to Oilier, he says that growiih entirely ceases when the epiphysis becomes united to the shaft. Hence it is that the greatest lengthening of a long bone is, as Oilier observed, at the end at which the union between the epiphysis and shaft is latest in occurring. LuscuKA.—The Medullary Cells in the Diaplujses of the Tubular Bones of Man. "Wiirzb. Verb., vol. x, p. 175. Canstatt, vol. i, pp. 41, 97. This observer remarks that the granular, nucleated, roundish cells, found to occur not only in the spongy siibstance, but on the surface of the medulla, of long bones, are of especial interest, inasmuch as in hyper- femia, for instance, their number may undergo vast increase, and purulent collections and cancer may originate from them. In birds the bones which do not contain air are occupied by a marroAV chiefly com- posed of such cells, whilst those which contain air are lined with a membrane of connective tissue, which is paved with them. Maktins.—New comparison of the Pelvic and Pectoral lAmls of Man and the Manwialia, grounded on the torsion of the Humerus. Mole- schott's Untersuch., vol, vi, part 5. Canst., vol. i, p. 96. According to this inquirer—(i) The head of the tibia, in man and most mammalia, represents the combined, heads of the radius and ulna