453 IMMOEAL ASSAULTS. iliat it had lived independently of the mother, but that life had lasted only for a short time (the contents of the thorax floated, but the infla- tion of the lungs was only partial). On removing the scalp, a considerable extravasation was found in the neighbourhood of the sagittal suture, between the right parietal bone and its periosteum ; a similar extravasation existed on the left side, having the same relations. Other lesions of the same kind were found on the left frontal and occipital bones. There were also numerous fractures, extending in the direction of the sagittal suture, from the vertex to the occiput, excessive redness and injection of the pia mater, and extravasation of blood in the substance of the left hemisphere. The evidence which these lesions afi'orded, that they could not have arisen in the fall of the body of the child into the privy, but must have been inflicted previously, probably by pressing in the skull with some hard instrument, is analysed minutely, and at great length, by Dr. Hofmann, who inferred that the infant was born during the night preceding the previous day, and was brought dead into the house in which the body was found, for the purpose of concealment. The accused was convicted, and sentenced to be confined in the House of Correction for an indefinite period. ToULMOUCHE.—studies on Infanticide and concealed or simulated Preg- nancy. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 364. Anstie.—The proofs of Live Birth in relation to prosecutions for Infan- ticide. West. Med. and Surg. Soc, Lancet, Nov. i6th. Bkock v. Kellock.— 'Proof of Live Birth. Lancet, May iith. More than twenty years ago a gentleman died intestate. His widow, who was then pregnant, succeeded to a portion of the property. The child died at or immediately after the moment of birth. Thereupon the question arose whether or not the child had lived, in such sense as to have become possessed of property, for if it had, its mother, as its heir, would be entitled to such property. The question turned on the testimony of the accoucheur, that the child moved vigorously a minute before birth, that the chest was full and arched, and that the funis pulsated after the division of the cord. There was no evidence that respiration had taken place. On the ground that the infant, at a time subsequent to birth, was physiologically alive, Vice-Chancellor Stuart decided that he had become possessed of the property in question. IJIMORAL ASSAULTS. Krugelstein.—Violation of a child of seven by a youth of seventeen,- various methods of distinguishing seminal stainsfrom others resembling them. Henke, vol. xl, part 4. Pfaek.— Violation of a child of eight; relaxation of the hymen; dilatation of the vagina ; syphilitic affection of the labia majora and minora. Henke, vol. xl, part 2. Maschka.—Violation of a female affected with epilepsy ; improbability of the assumption that the act ivas committed during the paroxysm, considering that the true epileptic remembers the most minute cir- cumstances, toithout, however, being in a condition to give the alarm (sic). Oest. Ztsch, vol. vi, p. 39. 80