SECEITORY SYSTEM. 223 Wolff observed forty-five cases, in all of which a stone was passed. Two thirds were males. Jaundice was absent throughout in twenty-five of the cases. Pain, mostly followed by rigor, situated in the region of the liver, and slowing of the pulse, are the surest signs. VoLLANT.—Treatment of Gall-stones and of Hepatic Colic. Journ. de Med. et de Chir. pratiq. VoUant recommends at first frequent change of position to favour the descent of the calculus into the duodenum. If this do not avail, he prescribes absolute rest and repeated doses of morphia. To prevent the formation of new calculi he gives Sodse Bicarb, gr. xv—5s8 daily in Deo. Taraxaci. Martin.—On an Epidemic of Jaundice in Italy. Recueil de Memoires de Med. Milit., vol. iii, p. 374. Med. Times and Gaz., June 8th. The disorder occurred during very hot weather, and affected 71 men out of 1022. Great increase in size of the liver in most cases, and of the spleen in many, was observed, and all complained of pain in the epi- gastrium and in the hypochondria. All the patients recovered. Neukosim, J.—On the detection of the Biliary Acids, and the changes they undergo in the Blood. Reichert and Du Bois Reymond's Archiv, part 3, i860. Arch, of Med., Jan., 1861. Neukomm concludes from his researches that the biliary acids can only appear in traces in the urine, when injected into the veins. In three out of seven instances there was decided proof of the existence of bile pig- ment in the urine. He doubts, however, that this conversion of the biliary acids is an invariable result. Neither does he consider it proved that the bUe pigment proceeds from dissolved and altered hsematin. Wagneb, E.— The Structure of Hepatic Cancer. Arch, d, Heilk., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 16. After a description of the stroma and cell growth, Wagner states that he agrees with Schroeder v. d. Kolk, that the capillaries of the portal vein are destroyed by the cancerous growth, while others are developed in connexion with the hepatic artery, and empty themselves into the radicles of the hepatic vein. DoDEELEiN, Max.—On the Diagnosis of Cancerous Tumours in the Right Hypochondrium, especially those of the Kidney and Supra-renal Capsule. Inaug. Essay. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 111, p. 47, After relating a case in great detail, Doderlein describes how the liver becomes displaced by the pressure of the tumour, being pushed forwards and to the left, and rotated on its transverse axis, so that its right border advances downwards and to the left, and can be felt or even seen, in the abdomen. The notch in the anterior border is pushed even as far as the left mammary vertical line. As the tumour increases, the left lobe of the liver comes more forward, the heart recedes upwards and to the left, the intestines are pressed downwards and to the left. The liver cannot be moved by the hand, but its upper border descends in inspiration unless the diaphragm is paralysed by pleuritic affections, or abscesses between it and the liver.