308 UEPORT OX SURGEEY. Hunt, J. "VV.—Eie/U Calculi removed from the Urethra of a Boy fee years old. Aincr. Med. Timea, Feb. 23rd, p. 129, Jackson.— Urethral Calculm. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., July 4th, p. 471. Stuubs.—Forviyii Body introduced into the Urethra and removed eiyhleeii months afterwards by incision in the Berinceum. Med. Times aud Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. 8EQA.JjA.s.—Bemoval of a Hair-pin from the Urethra. Bull, de I'Acad., t. XXV, p. 52. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 4, p. 72. Affiections of the Urethra. Hvrcuisso-S.—Statistical Bejjort of Operations for Stricture, 1860. Med. Times aud Gaz., June 15th, p. 629. Yan BunEN.—Lectures on Stricture of the Urethra, preliminary to the clinical course on disease of the yenito-urinary organs. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. i. Lyman, H. M.—Two cases of Laceration of the Urethra. June 15th, P- 385. Both fatal, from extravasation of urine. Lawrence.—Extravasation of Urine in a Child; free incisions; re- covery. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 26th, p. 89. Hunter, J.—On Lrritation of the Urethra in Females, its description and treatment. Lancet, May i8th, p. 481. A report of three cases of this affection, in one. of which the urethra was observed to be red and congested. Hunter's treatment consisted in restricting his patients to the recumbent posture, and the topical application of nitrate of silver, and dilute nitrate of mercury ointments. Pemburton, 0.—On Traumatic Destruction of the Urethra, and its relief hy a suitable apparatus in the Berinceum. Lancet, March 16th, p. 258. A boy, set. 16, at work in a rolling mill, was struck by a red-hot rod of iron, which pierced the left side of the scrotum, outside the cord and testis, and passed backwards obliquely towards the right, traversing the urethra at the bulb, and ending at the ascending ramus of the ischium. The catheter could not be introduced, and the vesical part of the urethra could not be found by dissection in the perinseum. He recovered, with several fistulsB in the perinaeum. Subsequent attempts to find the vesical part of the urethra having also failed, the bladder was punctured with a double-edged scalpel through the perinaeum ami prostate, and a female catheter was fixed in the bladder. This was finally replaced by short, straight, double catheter, with a stopcock. M Barton, Dr.—Case of Stricture of the Urethra; disease of the bladder and Jcidneys. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, p. 37. Mason "Warren, J.—OnBerincal Section. Amer. Journal of Med. Sc.. April, p. 371- A critique on Bryant's paper on this subject, published in the ' Guy s