REPORT ON FORENSIC MEDICINE. 454 FOIIENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. Brierre de Boismont.—Medico-leyal studies on Hallucinations and Illusions. Ann. d'llyg., vol. xvi, p. 145. Hnlhicinations mny, by reason of the profound conviction of their reality which often exists in the mind of the individual who is subject to them, lead to dangerous or criminal actions. This may be the case even as regards the hallucinations of acute delirium and mania, but it happens much more frequently in melancholy monomania, in which the attempts of the patient to injure himself or others are either indirectly determined by his realization of horrible apparitions or of persons whom he believes to be insulting or threatening him, or directly suggested by invisible voices, or other hallucinations. The diseases in which hallucinations and illusions must be taken into account, as determining causes of actions, are mainly monomania, puerperal mania, dementia and general paralysis ; it is further to be remembered that the hallucinations which precede the epileptic paroxysm, and those which accompany the transition from sleep to consciousness, may often exercise an important influence. The illu- sions of dreams occasionally maintain their distinctness up to the moment of waking and even in the state of wakefulness. In such cases they may give rise to unreasonable or criminal acts. Many remarkable incidents have come nnder the author's personal observation, which could only be explained in this manner. So long as the individual remained under the influence of his dreams, his words and actions were those of a madman, but, as the images of the night faded and became indistinct and finally disappeared, he expressed astonishment at his own acts, although he remembered that, at the time, they appeared to him perfectly reasonable. The paper contains numerous illustrative eases, from which, and from the preceding considerations, the author derives the follow- ing practical conclusions :—Confinement is often rendered necessary by hallucinations, but is occasionally counter-indicated. Deprivation of civil rights {Vinterdiction) is demanded in the case of individuals whose hallu- cinations would involve ruin to themselves or their families, but not when the individual is inoffensive, and his hallucinations are, so to speak, constitu- tional. The testamentary capacity of the individual is not impaired by hallucinations in cases in which they have long existed, have exercised no influence on the conduct, have not perverted the natural aflections, and have not interfered with the due discharge of social duties. Willers-Jessen.—On incendiarism. 8vo, Kiel, i860, pp. 335. In this work, of which the title was given in the 'Year Book' for i860, the author denies the existence of the impulse to incendiarism as an essential form of mental disease, and regards this tendency either as a symptom of general insanity or as a product of perverted emotions. He accordingly divides the seventy-seven cases on which the inquiry is based into two classes. lu the first class, the act was determined by yindictive- ness, envy, fear, discontent, nostalgia, or some other emotion, without any intellectual perversion. The second class includes cases referable to imbecility, melancholy, hypochondriasis, and partial dementia, and com- prises the incendiarism of drunkards and epileptics. Each subject is illustrated by examples. i