45 NEUVOTJS SYSTEM. MaiteiTCCI.—On the Secondanj JElectro-motor Foioer of tlie Nerves, and its application to Electro-phi/dologi/. Comptes reudus, 1861, Eeb. 11, p. 231. As the result of a long series of researches, the author announces that the secondary electro-motor power of a nerve (or that which it acquires after the passage of an electric current, and Avhich takes a direction opposite to the latter) is much greater near the positive than next the negative pole, and that this diflerence is more considerable wlien the nerve is traversed by a centripetal current. It is well known that if a current be passed from one foot to the other (as, for example, through a frog's limbs connected by the lumbar nerves, and a portion of the°spiue), for fifteen or twenty minutes, the foot to which the posi- tive pole is applied, is seized with violent contractions on interruption of the circuit. Now, as stated in the above proposition, it is this nerve which is the seat of the stronger secondary power, which is moreover most marked in the part nearest the muscles. The author attributes the contractions in question to the passage of the secondary, and in this nerve direct, current. It ought to'be remarked that the author's observations were not limited to the frog, but extended to the sheep, rabbit, and chicken. NiA'^EMT.—Memoir on the different Plii/siolof/ical Action of the Positive and Negative Poles in the Voltaic and Induction Currents. Comptes rendus, 1861, May 13th, p. 971. Experiments on fishes and frogs, on cutaneous sensibility in man, and the organic tissues, lead to the following propositions:—ist. In the continued, the inductor, and the induced currents, the two poles act dif- fcrentl}^ on electro-muscular contractility, the positive producing flexion and resolution of the muscles, the negative their extension. 2nd. With all three currents, the ne(/ative pole acts most on cutaneous sensibility, but has the least local effect.* 3rd. The positive pole of the continued current coagulates, whilst the negative dissolves the tissues, &c. The induced current is almost powerless in this respect, but affects sensi- liiUli/ more than they do. Eroiu these premises, the author arrives at the practical conclusion, ihat in aneurisms &c., the positive (coagulating) pole is to be preferred, Avhilst in solid enlargements the negative (solvent) will be appropriate. Du Bois Retmond, E.—Toivards a Knowledge of Heniicrania. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 517. Canst., vol. i, p. 149. The author refers hemicrania, from which he is a sufferer, to tetanus in the muscular fibres of tlie vessels supplying the affected side—the tetanus being caused by the corresponding sympathetic. Philipeatjx and Vulpian.—Note on the Regeneration of Transplanted Nerves. Comptes rendus, 1861, April %gt\\, p. 849. As reported in the last Year-book (p. 45), these experimenters found that after division of a nerve, the distant segment, after degenerating and losing its properties, is yet capable of regaining, sooner or later, its •? The original is, " L'action du pole negatif est bien plus prononcee sur I.1 sensibilite cutaru'e que celle du pole nogatif" (sic). 1