hepout on practical medicine. 226 depilntion is with forceps made for the purpose, having broad ends with fine and blunt transverse grooves. Tliis method is extremely efiicacious in sycosis, but it is much more difficult to obtain success in dealing with herpes tonsurans. Favus is most frequent by far in the hair-follicles, es- pecially those of the scalp ; it also may affect the epidermis and the nails. Dirtiness is its sole predisposing, and contagion its sole exciting cause. The parasitic growth is disposed as small cups, which are perforated by one or more hairs. When these are wide apart the name of favus lupinosa, when they are thickly set and encroach upon each other, that of favus scu- tulata is given to the affection. In favus squamosa the crusts have lost their original form and colour, and assuraei a dirty-whitish tint. Favus of the epidermis appears as a thin, whitish, scaly crust marked by yellow streaks. Treatment is identical with that of tinea tonsurans. Alopecia areata is regarded by Anderson as occasioned by a fungus, and as con- tagious, and to be treated in the same way as its congeners. Pityriasis versicolor consists of minute spots which enlarge and coalesce into irre- gular patches of brownish colour. The skin of the neck, chest and abdomen is mostly affected. It is undoubtedly contagious, but seems to require a peculiar state of system for its growth. The microscope detects among the epithelial scales spores and filaments, which constitute, in Anderson's opinion the essential cause of the disease. An account is given of pedicular affections, and of scabies, including scabies crustosa. Hutchinson, G.—A Clinical Report on true Ringworm {Tinea Ton- surans). Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. _5th, 12th. After giving short reports of about fifty cases Hutchinson discusses the diagnosis, contagiousness, character, and treatment of the disease. His opinions are almost identical with those of Mr. Anderson. ^kii^.—Treatment of Tinea Favosa.—Tresse^ Med. Beige, July 27th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Sep. 28th. Bazin brushes the scalp over night and morning with a solu- tion of Hyd. Bichl. (5ss in Aq. ^xvi with a little alcohol). He then applies an ointment of Turbith mineral (gr. vij—xv, ad 3] Adipis). The hairs are to be removed by forceps as long as any sign of the disease remains. HiLLiEB, T.—On Ringworm and Vegetable Parasites. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 23 rd, 3otb. Hillier states that certain atmospheric conditions seem to favour the occurrence of tinea tonsurans. In St. Pancras' workhouse there is fre- quently an almost entire absence of the disease for two or three years, and then, for several months, every second or third child in the buildmg gets attacked by it, while all external conditions and the class of children remain the same. He does not adopt Dr. T. Fox's view that there is one fungus common to all the tinese,but believes that a soil which is favorable to the growth of one fungus, may encourage the growth of another dis- tinct one ; and also that the eruption produced by different fungi inay resemble each other. He notices and combats Mr. Hogg's view that parasitic vegetation is not the cause, but the result of disease.