REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF JIEDICINE. 6 inorganic bodies has been, and is still, very generally stated to be that, ■whereas the structure of an inorganic substance is homogeneous, the structure of organized bodies is heterogeneous, even the simplest forms presenting at least a distinction of cell-wall and cell-contents. The author not only believes in the existence of simpler tissues which have been de- veloped independently of the agency of cells, but also aHserts that it may be shown that in the development even of the most complex tissues cells liave no share. He says that muscular fibre, for example, is formed by the aggregation of cytoblasts, and their investment by surrounding blastema. No nucleated cells are concerned in any way in the process, and that further growth and development of the fibre is by the addition of fresh substance to its exterior. "When speaking of the " vital principle," the author remarks that our knowledge of the vital processes has not been in any measure advanced by the assumption of what has been styled a " vital principle "—an empirical term, which, like some others, when employed in physiology, is, even at the best, equivalent to nothing more than the final letters of the alphabet in an algebraical formula; for it is, when used in its least objectionable sense, a mere expression of something unknown. But the assumption of such an agent or principle, however designated, annihilating or suspending the operation of forces acting elsewhere, has not proved altogether harmless in its influence upon the progress of knowledge. By referring all vital actions to this obscure agency, whUe nothing was thereby explained, inquiry was, to a great extent and for a long while, checked. Many, dazzled by the idea that the nature of vital phenomena was exalted by thus associating them with some mysterious and peculiar principle apart from and opposed to those agencies which act elsewhere, missed the grander conception that even in the vital functions may be recognised the operation of forces, some of which, at least, are common to both kingdoms, while between these and others which appear to be peculiar to living tissues it is probable that some relation may exist like what we luiow exists between the chemical and physical forces. Finally, Savory clearly points out the fact that the gap between man and the animals around him is ever narrowing, that the separation of the animal and vegetable kingdoms is gradually becoming less distinct, and that the organized and inorganized worlds gradually approach each other as science advances, and knowledge becomes more extended. EiCHAEDSOK, Dr.—On tie Phenomena of Life. Lettsomian Lectures. Med. Times and Gaz., March and, p. 229. In the notice of the second lecture, given in the ' Medical Times and G-azette,' it is stated that four propositions were introduced into this lecture ;—(i) That caloric is the primary source of motion in nature, and that it is, therefore, the source of life in so far as motion represents life. (2) That the evolution of animal caloric takes place mainly in respiration. (3) That the combination of the oxygen of the air with the carbon of the blood is due to the extreme distribution of the carbon over the capillary surfaces ; and (4) that caloric is the primary source of animal motion, and is alone sufficient to restore miisculai* irritability.