IlEPOUT ON SURGERY, 24S Vinciio-w, E.—Barer Stones from Man. Virchow's Archiv f. Path. Auat. II. Phys., vol. xxi, part i ; second series, vol. i, part i, p. 116. A description of a salivary calculus, one inch and three eighths long, removed from Wharton's duct, and of two stones from the ureters. WoiiMAi-T).—Injlammatioii of the Parotid Salivary Oland. Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 1524. This treatment consisted in deep punctures. The Hard and Soft Palates. Langenbeck, B.— TIranoplasty ly detachment of the Mucous-])eriosteal Covering of the Palate. Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin, Chir,, vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 20^5. The author discusses the several plans hitherto practised for closing cleits in the hard palate, and shows, by some most successful cases, the great advantage of using the periosteum together with the mucous membrane covering the defective bony arch in making flaps for the remedy of this deformity. HuLKE, J. W.—Case of Closure of a Cleft of the Sard and Soft Palates. Med. Times and Graz., Aug. 31st, p. 213. HoETEK, J. TAN DEB.— On tlie adhesion of the Uvula and Loioer Porder of the Soft Palate loith the Posterior Wall of the Pharynx. Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 448. This adhesion resulted from syphilitic ulceration of tlie fauces. The soft palate was also perforated in three places (illustrated by a drawing). Pancoast.—Soft, Brain-liJce Tumour in the Velum Pendulum Palati. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 19th, p. 431. An encapsuled tumour, the size of an egg, in the substance of the velum, pressing down the tongue and hindering deglutition. It had already been twice opened. Pancoast passed a strong thread through it, and then cut it out. Its consistence was gelatinous, and its minute structure resembled that of fibro-cartilaginous tumours. The Pharynx. Levebtin, Dr.—Case of Betro-pharynyeal Abscess, Hygiea, Bd. xxi, p. 692. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 62. A peasant, set. 46, after recovery from typhus and gastric fever, was attacked with dysphagia October 13th. Nothing wrong was found in the neck. Next day the difficulty of swallowing was so great that not even a drop of water could be swallowed; fits of suffocation also oc- curred. 17th.—A swelling was discovered in the pharynx, and tra- cheotomy was performed by Professor Santesson. This was followed by some improvement in breathing and swallowing, but death took place on the 19th. The oesophagus having been laid open beliind, two yellow points were found in its anterior wall, over the arytaenoid car-