KEPORT Oy THr, INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 106 weighed separately, that ahtiost invariably the average weight of the left exceeded that of the right by at least the eighth of an ounce.) (3) The average weight of the cerebellum varied in the males from 5-42 to 5 06 oz., and in the females from 5 to 474 oz. (4) The weight of the ence- phalon varied in males from 48-17 to 43'8y oz., and in females from 44'55 to 40'5.') oz.; in the saue at the same period of life the average varied in the male from 48'2 to 45-34 oz., and in the female from 43-7 to 3977 02- Chossmak, E.—Intermarriafje of Relations as a cause of Degeneracy of the Offspring. Brit. Med. Journ., April 13th, p. 401. The intermarriage of relations is not always attended by injurious results; this is?, however, only the case where the uniting parties are not impressed witli the same hereditary imperfections, in consequence of a previous cross having neutralized the tendenc}'. Gaedneu, James.—On the Intermarriage of Belations as a cause of De- generacy of the Offspring. Brit. Med. Journ., March i6th, p. 290. Gardner believes that the cause of degeneracy must be looked for elsewhere than in blood-relationsliip. Jolt, N., and Mtjsset, Charles.—New Experiments on Spontaneous Generation. Comptes rendus, Jan. 21st, 1861, p. 99. The authors took the cecums of two sheep and boiled them during an hour along with a few pieces of meat. Tiiey then removed the cecums, and filled thera with the fluid in which they had been boiled. Three quarters of the liquid was next disj^laced by pure hydrogen gas, the caecums tightly ligatured, and put aside in tepid water (20° to 25° C). After twelve days the bags were opened and found to contain infusoria, Teereil.—Olservations on so-called Spontaneous Generation. Comptes rendus, April 29th, 1861, p. 851. The author states that urine introduced into jaj-s, the tubes leading to which had previously been heated to 120° or 150° C, and then gradually cooled, remained free from vegetation even after the lapse of two months, whilst the fluid contained in other jars, the tubes of which had not been heated, speedily became mouldy. PjaADiEB.—Note on the Beprodtcction of the Nails. Gaz. des Hop., No. 37. Having observed the growth of one crop of his own finger-nails, the author states that those of the right hand are renewed somewhat more speedily than those of the left. Panum.—Researches on the Origin of Malformations. 8vo, Berlin, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 210. Panum'.s woi-k forms an epoch in the science of normal and abnormal devcliipnient. V/e can l-.ere only indicate its contents. After a general introduction, the author proceeds to treat of monstrosities among birds. Variations of temperature here form the main cause. In the abstraction