3 I MA>-UALS, GE.VKllAL TREATISES, LECTUKES, ETC. Galloway, Eobeet.—A Manual of Qualitative Amh/sis. 3i'd edit. 8vo, London. TitOMSoK, Dr. M.VB.-n^.y:.—Anal!jtical Tables for the use of Students oj Practical Chemistri/. Sutherland and Knox, 1861, pp. 20. Du LcXA, Prof. (Madrid).—Chemical Studies on the Atmosphere of Madrid, i860, pp. 54. x i Atkiksok, E.—Elementary Treatise on Physics. London, 1861, G-BOVE, W. 'R.—The Correlation of Physical Forces. 3rd edition. Svo, London. Hogg, Jabez.—Elements of Experimental and Natural Philosophy. 2nd edit., illustrated. London, 8to, pp. 560. rAEADAT, M.—Course of six Lectures on the various Forces of Matter; and their relations to each other. Edited by "Wm. Crookes. 3rd edit. i2mo, London, 1861. Smith, Dr. Edwaed.—Health and Disease, as influenced hy the Daily, Seasonal, and other Cyclical Changes in the Human System. Small 8vo, London, 1861. Hughes Beitstett, Prof. J.—On the Molecular Theory of Organization, Lancet, May 25th, p. 504. The author directs attention— 1st. To a description of the nafciu-e and loode of origin of organic molecules. 2nd. To a demonstration of the fact that these molecules possess inherent powers or forces, and are present in all those tissues which manifest vital force. 3rd. To a law which governs the combination, arrangement, and be- havioui' of these molecules duriug the development of organized tissue. In nature, the breaking down of one substance is the necessary step to the foi'mation of another; and the histolytic or disintegrative mo- lecules of one period become the histogenetic or formative molecules of another. "With regard to nutrition, food and all assimilable material must be reduced in the first instance to the molecular form, while the fluid from which the blood is prepared—viz., chyle—is essentially moleculai*. Most of the secretions originate in the effusion of a fluid into the gland-follicles, which becomes molecular and gives rise to cell-formation. In muscle, the power of contractility is inherently associated with the ultimate molecules of which the fasciculus is composed; and, lastly, the gray matter of the sensory ganglia and of the brain, which furnishes the conditions necessary for the exercise of secretion, and even of intellect itself, is associated with layers of molecules which are unques- tionably active in producing the various modifications of nei'vous force. These molecules are constant and permanent as an integral part of these tissues, as much as cells or fibres are essential parts of others, and their function is not transitory, biit essential to the organs to which they belong. These facts point to the conclusion that vital action, so far from being exclusively seated in cells, is also intimately associated with the elementary molecules of the organism, and that the development and