DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. .211 CuXxS'iNGHAM.—Ort the Treatment of Acute Dysentery hy Ipecacuanha. Ediu. Med. Journ., July, 1861. _ ^ m- ^ ^ •• In one hour after a sinapism to the epigastrium and ^ss of Tinct. Opn, from to 5iss of ipecacuanha is given in powder. This causes consider- able nausea, and vomiting occurs in one or two hours. During the nausea copious perspiration takes place, the pulse becomes fuller, softer and less frequent, tenesmus and abdominal pains cease, and the patient has no more stools for twelve or twenty-four hours. The next evacuation is easy, fluid, but free from blood or mucus. Sometimes the dose of Ipe- cacuanha may require to be repeated. M.K^o^—Ipecacuanha in Dysentery. London Med. Rev., July, 1861. Indian Lancet. • e < Mahon reports the results of this treatment from an experience of 436 cases, occurring in twenty-one months. There were only six deaths, and in only one of these could the remedy be fairly said to have failed. Under other plans of treatment the mortality has varied from 12 to 22-3 per cent. Speck.—On a Diarrhcea Epidemic of 1859. Arch. f. Wissensch. Heilk., vol. V, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, p. 37. The chief point of interest in this paper is the apparent dependence of the disease on the exhalations from a lake, which during this hot summer became half dried up. The lake is situated in a valley running north and south, the prevailing wind during the existence of the disease was north or north-west. The places situated to the north of the lake escaped almost entirely, those to the south suffered earlier and more severely in pro- portion to their proximity to the lake. Fox, E. L.—Five Cases of Intestinal Perforation. Brit. Med. Journ., June 8th. Four of the above were cases of fever (typhoid), in the fourth asso- ciated with dysentery. The fifth was one of chronic dysentery. In the second and third cases perforation was repaired as shown by the autopsy in the second, and recovery in the third. Diarrhoea was absent in at least three of the typhoid cases. Mental depression appeared to have much to do with the fatal event in two. LuscHKA, H.—On T?olypous Vegetations of the lohole Mucous Membrane of the Large Intestine. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, i, 2. A case is described in which the whole surface of the large intestine, from the ileo-c£Ecal valve to the end of the rectum was covered with polypous growths, club-shaped, with terminations of the size of a hemp- seed or bean, and mostly provided with pedicles. These growths were made up in great part of glandular tubes, simple or ramified. In some parts there were diffuse elevations of the mucous membrane, which ap- peared to be an early stage of the same polypous formations. Death ensued from exhaustion, in consequence of recurring hEemorrhagic diarrhcea. Another case is noticed, in which cysts were found in similar polypi and in the submucous tissue. They appeared to have resulted from transformations of Lieberkiihn follicles.