VASCUL^VR SYSTEM. 29 lu a letter to the editor of the ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Mr. Macua- niara relates a case of coutractility of the human heart, persisting fully twelve hours after death, and six and a half after injection of the arte- i-ies with an arsenical solution (the solution employed being of the streno'th of one pound of arsenic to six gallons of water). The man, a Hindoo ffit. 24 years, died in the Calcutta Police Hospital, and was hrouo-ht to the College for dissection about six a.m. Tebruary 1st, 1861. •\t seven a.m. the body was injected. At eleven a.m. Professor Part- ridf^e's prosector opened the thorax and abdomen for the purpose of dissectino- the sympathetic nerve. At noon the author by accident passed by, and on looking at the body he exclaimed, "his heart is beatiuo-"' and, upon further inspection,'he distinctly perceived a regu- lar rhythmical, vermicular action of the right auricle and ventricle. The pericardium at the time was open, the heart fully exposed and Ivino- to the left of its natural position. The heart's action although re<rular, was very weak and slow. The left auricle was also in action, but the'left ventricle was contracted and rigid, and apparently motion- less. The spontaneous contractions continued till about 12.45. The ri'^ht side of the heart contracted, however, on the application of a stimulus, such as the point of a scalpel, for three quarters of an hour louo-er. 'The author was unable to ascertain exactly the period of the man's death, but it is certain his body was sent away from the Police Hospital as early as six a.m. The liver was in a state of cirrhosis, and there was general anasarca. The viscera generally were healthy. Haelet, Prof. Gr.—On the Dead Heart JPulmtim/. The Eield, 'Nor, 16th, p. 448. The author cites the following experiment;—A frog was poisoned by introducing a small quantity of woorara under the skin. Its limbs gradually became paralysed, it ceased to breatlie, and, in the course of a few minutes, appeared perfectly dead. In about half an hour after life seemed extinct, the heart, on being exposed, was found beating slowly, but regidarly. The frog was now covered up with a damp piece of cloth and placed aside. On looking at it next day, the animal still appearing to be quite dead, the heart was found pulsating regularly as before. Porty-eight hours after death the heart still continued to act regularly. Seventy-two hours after death the action of the ventricle was stdl distinct though feeble. Ninety-six hours after death the left auricle alone continued to contract. Not only was the frog quite dead, but its lower extremities were now shrunk and withered. Exactly one hundred hours after death, Dr. Harley put the animal into a moist warm atmosphere, and kept it there until the temperature of its body was slightly raised. This had the effect of restoring the irritability of the heart; for on touching the ventricle with the point of a pen it resumed its pulsation, and the contractions (first of the auricle, then of the ventricle,) continued rhythmically during several minutes. Even the pulsations in the large vessels attached to the heart were well marked, and continued quite regularly for a quarter of an hour. When upas antiar was employed instead of woorara, the action of the heart was arrested, not only before the animal was dead, but even before it ceased to spring about.