llEl'OKT ON THE INSTITUTES Oi' MEIJICXNE. 20 VASCULAJl SySTEJl. Haleokl), Ur. aEOiiOE B.—On the Time and Manner of Closure of the Aiiriciilo-ventricnlar Valves. Loud., i8(5i. Addisox, Dr. Wu.—Chanf/es of Form in the Bed Corpimcles of Human Blood. Micros. Joiu-n., Jan., p. 20 ; April, p. 81 ; July, p. 166. Davy, Dr. Jouk.—On the Blood of the Common Earthworm. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861, jACOBsOiS", ri.— Contributions to llcemodynamics. Archiv f. Anat. u. Pliys., p. 80. Waters, A. T. H. (Liverpool).—Ohservations on the lihi/thmical Action of the Heart., and its Duration in As])hi/xia. Lancet, July 20th, P- 59- BiKDFLEiscH.—On the Development of the Vessels. Vii-chow's Archis', vol. XX, p. 213. Canst., vol. i, p. 71. In order to determine Avhether the filaments, in which the processes of the growing vascular loops end, are necessarily united with the sur- rounding corpuscles of the areolar tissue, the author made a series of observations at intervals of several days on the tail of the same tadpole, and found that although when the vessels' path brought it into proximity with those bodies, they took part in the construction of its wall, yet when its route lay between the cell-territories, it pursued an apparently isolated course. Billeteh.— Contrihutions to our Knowledije of the Origin of the Vessels. 4to, Zurich, i860. Caust., vol. i, p. 70. The author, whose observations were dii'ected by Prey, states that, both in the mammalia and the amphibia, the mode of development of the capillary vessels is twofold: either—(i) a system of ofl'sets from the growing tube connects it with similar processes from other capilla- ries ; or (2) a simple capillary network retains its arrangement whilst assuming a more complex structure by the deposition of numerous cells destined to construct the cellular coat of the .future lai-ger vessel. In the mammalia, the latter mode is infinitely the more prevalent. Letdtg.—On the External Coverings of the Mammalia. Archiv f. Ajiat. u. Phys., 1S59, p. 677. Canst., vol. i, p. 70. The author finds that the muscles of the veins of the bat's wing betray unmistakeable traces of transverse striation, and thus approach in character to the contractile elements of sanguineous aud lymphatic hearts. They form a single cu-cular layer, and have a plexiform arrange- ment around the inner coat of the vessel. They are broader and less sharply defined than those of the arteries. These observations are of interest in relation to Mr. "Wharton Jones' discovery of the rhythmical contraction of those veins. Setsciie>-ow.—(i) Conirilnlionstothe Pneumatologgofthe Blood. Zlsch. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. loi. (2) JS^o/ices on Pnnima/ologg. lb., p.2S6. Canst., vol. i, p. 4. In Ludwig's laboratory, this inquirer found that blood, deprived of 1