BLOOD-VESSELS. 287 A mm, tet. ijo, of intemperate habits, in the summer of 1858 had hoarseness, difficulty in swallowing, and pains in the right arm. Early in 1859 a tumour appeared above the clavicle, which m the following December had attained the size of a large egg. In January, i860 it suddenly increased to twice its former dimensions, and his right arm be- came powerless. The tumour reached from the cla^acle to the cricoid cartilage, pushed the larynx to the left, one and a half inch beyond the median line. Tlie right carotid artery could be felt along its inner side. April 8th,—This vessel was secured below the omo-hyoid muscle. There was no perceptible ditference in the tumour. Secondary haemor- rhage took place on several occasions, and the man sank on the 3i8t of July. HlLTO?f.—Aneurism of the Suhclavian Artery ; treatment ly dir/ital com- pression, manipiihttion, ice, Sj'c. Lancet, June, p. 561. A labourer, a;t. 38. This aneurism followed a sudden, severe jerk of his left arm. It was the size of half a small orange, and reached over the first and second ribs. January 14th,—Hilton confined him to his bed, and had ice constantly applied. 17th,—From the intense cold, the skin over the coracoid process was excoriated. A layer of lint was placed between the ice and the tumour. Digital compression maintained from 6 a.m., 31st, to 10 p.m., Eebruary and. The tumour became smaller, and the impulse less. Tenderness of the skin neces- sitated the discontinuance of the pressure. 7th,—Pressure resumed for nine hours continuously. loth,—Tumour more diff"used, and im- pulse greater. Pressure was again applied during several hours, on two occasions, but without decided change. April,—Forcible manipu- lation. Maj^ 2ud to 15th,—Ice for three hours continuously at night; afterwards pressure. May 28th,—Patient in statu quo. Holt.—Aneurism of tlie Carotid Artery; ligature of the lower part of the vessel; successful result. Lancet, .]une 8th, p. 560. The aneurismal tumour at first deceptively simulated an enlarged lymphatic gland, but subsequently its real nature became apparent. Holt tied primitive carotid artery about an inch above the bifiu'cation of the art. innominata, November loth, i860. The ligature separated on the sixteenth day ; the tumour had become much smaller, harder, and did not pulsate. A month after this the neck was much swollen, and a large quantity of healthy pus escaped through the upper part of the ■wound. Arterial bleeding occurred, but was stopped by pressure on the tumour. Pebruary 4th.—Great diminution of the tumour, and not much discharge. Ligature of the Carotid Artery for Kcemorrhage from Wounds. HvTCiiiNSOX, J. Q,.—Ligature of the Primitive Carotid Artery for ivound of the internal maxillary artery; recovery. Anier. Med Times, April 20th, p. 254. Mebce-R, A.—Ligafi0-e of the Primitive Carotid for tcomid of the occipital tn the occipital groove. Araer. Med. Times, May i8th p. 321. ! J 7