RBPOET ON MIDWIFEEY, ETC. 831 MECHANISM OP DELIVER-Sf. Duncan, Dr. J, Matthews.—TAe obliquity of the Fatal Head in the mechanism of Parturition. Ed. Med. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 127, and Sept., p. 245. Tlie author's object is to show that the obliquity or lateral obliquity of the foetal bead, when passing through the brim of the pelvis, described by Naegele and others, does not exist in natural parturition ; and that obliquity or lateral obliquity of the fcetal bead, when passing through the outlet of the pelvis, not described by Naegele, docs occur in natural Inboui'. An extended observation has convinced him that the entry of the head is direct, the error combated having probably arisen from previous observers taking the position of the head after it has passed the brim for position at the brim. The doctrine enunciated is supported by an elaborate reasoning. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—On the Caput Succedaneum, the presenta- tion, and their relations in cases where the head comes first. Ed. Med. Journ., July, 1861, p. 8. The author draws a distinction between the caput succedaneum of the former and of the latter part of labour. The term " presentation " he would define as "that point on the surface of the child's head through which the axis of the pelvis passes." Adopting this definition, the caput succedaneum may or may not correspond to the presentation. The relations of the two at different stages of labour are then discussed. UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PREGNANCY. Alb-evls.—Contribution to the History of Calcified Foetuses. Mon. f. Geb., Jan., 1861, p. 42. The essay refers to ten cases. In none was the pregnancy uterine or tubarian. Life was prolonged from seventeen to thirty-two years after the pregnancy. The pregnancy ended five times at the end of the ninth, and once each in the seventh, sixth, and fifth months respectively. The changes which took place in the foetus consisted in cretaceous metamor- phosis and fatty degeneration. A great portion of the soft parts, and some of the hard parts, disappeared. Adhesions frequently took place between the surface of the foetus and adjacent parts. Rektorzik.—Graviditas Extra-abdominalis. Oesterr. Zt., 18, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 192, . In this remarkable case a tumour appeared in the right inguinal region, which increased in size until it reached the knees. The fcetal movements and other signs present made it evident that the tumour contained a foetus The normal period of pregnancy having been a few days ex- ceeded the tumour was opened, and a live child extracted. The placenta was fimly adherent, and was left behind. The mother died the same day The author believes this to have been a case of uterus unicornis,