225 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. and subsequent contraction and wasting. In some parts li£Emorrhage occurs, and leaves rust-coloured cicatrices. On Leukcemia. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 33. Meissner (the reporter) arranges a series of cases frorn various sources under tlie head of lienal leukfemia, lymphatic leukaemia, and leuksemic new formation. The latter he compares to a malignant tumour, whose products (cells) resemble the white corpuscles, and are mingled with the blood. He quotes Gohtzinsky's conclusions ('Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' iv, 2, p. 90) relative to Leukaemia in children ; these are—(i) Lymphatic leukemia belongs chiefly to the earliest age, from birth to the second month, while the splenic form is oftener met with in childreu one year old. (2) Both forms are equally destructive, iron, quinine, and acids, can only stay the disease for a time, but not remove it. (3) Pneumonia is a common termination, (4) Leukaemia runs a more rapid course in suck- lings than in adults, sets in with febrile symptoms, and kills in two to three weeks. (3) The proportion of white corpuscles to red is smaller in children than in adults, 2 : 30, instead of 2:3. (6) In sucklings, at least in the lymphatic leukajmia, the enlargement of the mesenteric, sometimes of Peyer's and the solitary glands, appears to be connected with diarrhoea and inflammatory intestinal disorder. FoRSTER.—On Tumours of the Thyroid Gland. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 1. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 192. Forster remarks on the rarity of tumours in the thyroid, excepting such as result from alterations of its own structure. Among 300 cases of carcinoma there were only two of secondary affection of this gland, and one of primary cancroid. Fibroid, enchondromatous, and lipomatous growths do not occur in it. When tumours do form in it, they contract adhesions with the surrounding parts and sex-iously impair the natural mobility of the larynx, or exert on it injurious pressure, and perhaps perforate it, or the trachea, or oesophagus. CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Anderson, Mac C.—On Parasitic Affections of the Skin. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 5th, 19th; Feb. 2nd, i6th ; March 2nd, 9th, 23rd; April 27th; June ist, 8th; July 13th, 27th; Aug. 10th. Anderson enumerates four affections, which he believes to be due to the presence of a vegetable parasite :—(i) Tinea tonsurans, of which there are three varieties, viz., herpes circinnatus, sycosis, herpes tonsurans ; (2) favus ; (3) alopecia areata; (4) pityriasis versicolor. His reasons for regarding herpes circinnatus, herpes tonsurans, and sycosis as mere varieties of the same disease are that in all the same parasitic growth is found, and that one may give rise to the other by contagion. Full details are given of the appearances, the diagnosis, causes, and prognosis. The essential point in the treatment is the removal of the diseased hairs with the adhering parasitic growth, and the immediate application of sub- stances capable of destroying this cause of the disease, as Hyd. Bichl., sulphur, Turbith mineral, huile de cade. The best way of conducting