OTHER VEGETABLE PUODUCTS. 481 inquiries was, that the liber yields on incineration no less than twenty per cent, of ash, consisting mainly of carbonate of lime, which is attri- buted by the author to the existence therein of large quantities of the oxalate of the same base. It is supposed that this fact may have some relation to the remedial uses of the drug. Ziurek found in the wood, deprived of bark and liber, resin, gum, gallic acid, and tannin, but, with the exception of 2-1 per cent, of bitter extractive, no constituent to which importance can be attributed therapeutically. Experiments on the thera- peutical actions of anacahuite have been made at the Charite Hospital at lierlin without decisive results, the form employed being an infusion of shavings of the wood. Weikakt.—On the action of the Balsam of Copaiva. Arch. d. Heilk., vol. i, part 3, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 14a, It has been long known that nitric acid produces in the urine after the administration of balsam of copaiva a precipitate which much resembles albumen. Weikart's researches were directed to the determination of the nature of this precipitate. He found that it was not dependent on the presence of the essential oil of the balsam of copaiva, for on submitting the urine to examination with the polariscope it was found to have no optical reaction, and consequently to contain none of that compound. On examining the precipitate itself, he found that it w'as soluble in alcohol, and that by evaporating the solution a crystalline substance was obtained, soluble in alkalies, which had the character of an org.mic acid (copaivic acid), of the constitution C^QHgjO^. From these and other facts he draws the conclusion that the copaivic acid of the balsam, on passing into the circulation, combines with the potash and soda of the serum, and tliat, unlike the salts of other organic acids, these compounds pass as sucli into the urine. On the addition of nitric acid they are decomposed, and give rise to the precipitate referred to. The author founds upon these facts a chemico-physical theory of the action of the drug in arresting suppuration. Fliigel.—On the use of Lotus Corniculatus in Intermittent Fever, Bayer. Corr. Bltt., No. xvii, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 21. In tlie malarious district of Mitwitz this plant is constantly used as an antiperiodic, and is said to be as effectual as quina. Terehinthacece. MiLLON.—0?i the Pharmacology of Rhus Toxicodendron, Bull, de I'Acad., vol. xxvi, p. 501. Millon adopts the opinion of Bosc, that the two species are identical differing in the form of the leaf, just as do the young and old plants of ivy. He s-hows experimentally that the common statement as to the poisonous action of the plant at a distance is unfounded. Althouo'h the juice is slightly rubefacient, an ounce injected into the stomach of a rabbit had no action; the concentrated decoction, the officinal extract and aqueous destillate, were also inert. A crystalline product, obtained by the spontaneous evaporation of the ethereal extract, had no effect when applied