75 EESPIEATORY SYSTE3X. BaoDiB, Sir Benjamin, Bart.— On the " MarsJmll Hall MetliocV^ Med. Times and Gaz., May i8th, p. 529. In a letter addressed to the secretary of the Humane Society, Sir Benjamin Brodie remarks—(i) That the interval during which arti- ficial respiration can be employed is A-ery limited. (2) That if the Eoyal Humane Society's apparatus be at hand, and a medical man pre- sent kno\rs how to use it, this affords by far the safest and surest method of imitating natural respiration. (3) That there is great dan- ger that the rolling and tumbling about the body, as proposed by Dr. Marshall Hall, would interfere with the natural process of recovery; at the same time that it is very doubtful whether by this method a sufficient quantity of air could be drawn into the lungs to answer any useful purpose. (4) That, at any rate, of the two methods, that of Dr. Silvester would be more effectual, and much less calculated to do injury. Haeeison, Dr. James B.—On the employment of the" Iteacl'ij Method " of madntaining Artificial JRespiratioti antecedent to the snt/r/estions of Dr. Marshall Sail Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 2nd, p. 478. A case of opium poisoning, admitted into the Manchester Eoyal Infirmarj^ in 1839, was treated by tlie following novel method, and with success:—Two ojoerators, one standing on each side of the patient's bed, placed their hands on the thorax, curving the fingers round the carti- lages of the ribs. The respiratory movements were then imitated by the alternate raising and depressing of the ribs. It was necessary to continue the process for two hours. Watehs, Dr. (Liverpool).—Researches on Asphyxia; with ohservations on the effects prodv. ced hy the Sot Bath in Asphyxiated Animals, and its nse in restoring suspended animation. Trans. Eoy. Med. and Chir. Soc, vol. xliv, p. 135. After the numerous researches which have been made with reference to asphyxia, the author says that two important points still remain to be decided—first, the period after asphyxia has commenced during which treatment is likely to be successful in restoring animation ; and, secondly, the value of the hot bath as a remedial agent. Experiments had been instituted by the author with reference to the following questions:—(i) How long does the heart continiie to beat in asphyxia ? (a) What are the effects of the hot bath on an asphyxiated animal—firstly, after all respiratory movements have ceased, and are not re-excited; secondly, when respiration has been re-excited, and is being feebly carried on ? The following conclusions are drawn by the author from his experi- ments:—(i) That in asphyxia by submersion the ventricles of the heart do not, as a rule, cease to contract " in a few minutes after the cessation of the functions of animal life," but that in many instances their action continues for a very considerable period, and that this serves to explain how recovery has taken place after lengthened sub- mersion. (2) That in cases of asphyxia where respiration has altogether stopped, the effects of tlie hot bath are—to produce an accvmiulation of blood in the lungs and in the left side of the heart, together with a ten^