Ili:POUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATKIIIA JIEDICA. 430 AlgcE. LiPOWiTZ.—Chinese Gelatine, or Agar-Agar. Polytech. Intell. BItt., i860, p. 28. Lipowitz describes under tlicse names a substance of recent introduc- tion resembling lichenin, and containing, according to Payen, 427 per cent, of carbon, 57 per cent, of hydrogen, and 51-4 of oxygen, but capable of gelatinizing ten times as much water as ordinary gelaiine. The sub- stance is derived from Fue}is Amansii, and probably otlier marine algae, in Cliina and Japan. As being perfectly devoid of taste and smell, and remarkably cheap, Lipowitz thinks that it will entirely take the place of animal jellies and Iceland moss in the sick room. F^ingi. Mautmner.—Tiuo cases of Poisoning by Amanita Muscaria. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., No. 8, 1861. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 294. A girl, set. 9, suddenly became excited as if intoxicated, running about violently and striking and biting other children. This condition was soon followed by stupor, from which she was excited to raging delirium if spoken to. Subsequently she became unconscious ; there were slight twitches of the limbs, and the eyes were staring and fixed; the pupils were dilated, and did not react on exposure to light. Consciousness returned five hours after the first symptoms had appeared, large quantities of the poison having been previously discharged by vomiting. The father of this child was attacked, three hours later, with violent delirium, which, in his case, assumed a hallucinatory character, and was accompanied with blindness. Both patients had partaken of a dish of amanita two hours before the child was seized with delirium. Mangin.—Poisoning by Mushrooms. Bull, de Therap., vol. Ixi, p. 469. A family, consisting of six persons, partooR, on the 9th of August, of a supper of mushrooms. During the following night and forenoon four of the children were successively attacked with vomiting, abdominal pain and diarrhoea, in the inverse order of tlieir ages. The father experienced no inconvenience whatever, although he had partaken largely of the dish. On the 13th the following alarming events induced the parents to call in Dr. Mangin. On his arrival one of the children was dead, another, a child, cet. 5, " was in a hopeless condition; the limbs were flaccid, intel- lio-ence was completely aimibilated, the eyes distorted and half closed," the pulse was frequent and weak, and the respiration embarrassed. A third patient, a girl, tet. 9, was in a similar condition, with the exception that the state of apparent stupor was interrupted by occasional convul- sions. The treatment consisted in the administration of cofl'ee, in the application of sinapisms to the extremities, friction, &c. In the first case death took place in the morning of tlie 14th, in the second early on the i^th. It was found that the dish consisted of edible mushrooms, of the kind called "chanterelles" {Agariciis cantharellus) ; but there was added a single specimen which, from the description, appears to have been the well-known amanita. The immunity of the father may probably be