GENITO-UIUNAEY SYSTEM, 97 led him to notice in his own person the incorrecbness of the assertion so generally made, that opium arrests the urinary secretion. On the contrar}^, he found, by repeated experiments, that his urine, while taking small doses of sulphate of morphia, doubled in quantity and decreased in specific gravity from 1014 to 1003. Five young men were also experi- mented upon, and in four a largo increase in quantity and a lower specific gravity were observed. In the other the quantity remained the same, but the speciiic gravity \^ as markedly lessened. He did not obtain the same results when he used opium itself, but they followed whether he employed the muriate or sulphate of morphia. Acting upon this hint, he has several times used morphia in irritable conditions of the nervous system, where a diuretic was required, and with good effect. " I think it will be found, saj's he, that, in many cases of disease, the m-inar}-secretion is arrested by the state of nervous tension which has been superinduced, and that, instead of a resort to stimulant diuretics, sedatives will relax the tension and allow the secretion to be restored." Another marked action of opium, Dr. Woodward observes, is as an anaphrodisiac. He has found that among opium eaters, both male and female, the sexual desire becomes almost extinct; while he has prescribed it with good effect in persons suffering from lustful propensities. Seligsohn, Max.—On the Seaction of Cinchonine and its detection in Urine. Med. Centr. Ztg., vol. xxx, p. 17, 1861. Seligsohn has extended the researches on the test with the yellow ferro- cyanide of potassium, and finds that it never fails when the cinchonine solution is neutral, and that the yellow precipitate thereby obtained is not readily soluble even in acid solutions. On heating the liquid the precipi- tate is dissolved, but it reforms in the shape of little yellow crystals on the liquid being slowly cooled. In 250 cub. cent. (8 oz.) of water, to which 0*292 grms. (4^- grains) cinchonine was added, the substance was easily detected; but in the morning urine of a person who had taken 10 grms, (^55 grains) of the salt none was found. (Schmidt, No. 111, p. 6.) Smith, Dr. 'E,.—Experiments loith Fat, Tea, Coffee, and Alcoliol. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861. Smith found the following results from the administration of 3i ozs. of extra fat, i oz. of tea, i i- oz. of coffee, and 2 ozs. of alcohol, diluted"with water, when added to the dietary of prisoners, for successive periods of three days each. 1. During the period of the administration of 3^ ozs. of extra fat daily, the amounts of urea and urinary water excreted were 529 grains, and 6g-i7 ozs. on the average of all the cases, showing that no notable change had been produced. 2. During the withdrawal of f of an ounce (328 grains) of chloride of sodmra daily, the quantity of that salt excreted by the urine was reduced Irom 5o<5 to 184 grains daily, the difference being almost exactly the amount which had been withheld. After the full supply was renewed it I was some days before the whole again appeared in the urine ' 3- The excretion of urea was lessened during the administration of the Jtea to ,io;i grams ou the second, and 508 grains on the third, which was a 7