ORGANS OF SENSE. 65 acoustic), (cf) cells with both sheath and neurilemma (bipolar cells of spinal ganglia). With these correspond in structure four orders of nerve-fibres, the second and third orders occurring respectively in the sympathetic, and in the whit-e substance of the brain and cord as well as the optic and part of the acoustic nerves. (8) The retinal nerve-cells are all multipolar, and some of the processes anastomose with neigh- bouring cells, whilst others traverse the molecular layer to unite with the granules (regarded by the author as true nerve-cells) of the inter- nal granular layer. (9) Nerve-filaments then pass through the inter- granidar space to become connected with the elements of the outer granular mass, which, in their turn, communicate directly with the stratimi of rods these therefore (unlike the cones) form the true ends uf the retinal nerve-fibres. Beewstee, Sir BA YW.—TIie Ojptical Studi/ of the Betina. Trans. Brit. Assoc. for Adv. of Science, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 5th, p. .367. Optical means have been found available for exhibatmg two structures in the retina—the one a field of hexagonal patterns, shown by the suc- cessive impulses of light, the other consisting of dark, quadrangular lines, separated by parallel lines of bright light, and shown by the action of faint light produced e'ither without or within the organ. Masz.—On ilie Structure of the Betina in the Frog. Zeitschi*. d. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 301. Canst., vol. i, p. 63-1 This observer (i) demonstrates in the retina of the frog the fralue- work of filamentous tissue traced by Schultze in that of man (see page 64). (2) He has not, however, succeeded in discovering the i-adiating system of nerve-fibres described by that histologist. (3) Although he has not met either with multipolar cells or unquestionable nerve-fibres, the optic layer excepted, he does not hesitate to regard Eitter's fi.la- ments (see page 66) as nervous elements. Webee, 0. 0. — On the Structure of the Vitreous Body, and its patho- h(jical changes, esjjecially those of an inflammatory nativre, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 382. Canst, vol. i, p. 35. "VVeber states that (i) the vitreous body consists of the variety of connective tissue called by Virchow mucovis tissue; (2) the celliilar elements are discoverable throughout its substance ; (3) in the anterior part of the humour the cells form distinct meshes, whilst centrally and posteriorly they appear as roundish bodies, scattered in the matrix like cartilage-cells, and hardly betraying any offsets, which, however, become distinct in disease; (4) neither in man nor in mammalia has the author detected septa, whether concentric or centrifugal; certain rigid fibrous tracts of the matrix have given i-ise to such an appearance; (5) epithe- lial cells are absent; (6) the cells are to be regarded as the nutritive canals of the vitreous substance. Mi;LLER, H.—On Smooth Muscles and Nerve-plexuses in the lEtiman Eye. Verb. d. Wiirzh. Phys.-med. Ges., vol. x. Canst., vol. i, p. 100. Numerous observations have convinced the author of the presence of (in all-probability) smooth muscular fibres in the choroid, especially in 5