lllLl'ORT ON PBACTICAL MEDICINK. In Lecture II stress is laid on the value of anatomical observation, as 16a Gkiesinger.—Diagnostic Remarica respecting Cerebral Diseases, Arch, d. Heilk., part i. Canst. Jaliresber., vol. iii, p. 3. Griesiiiger insists, first, on the distinctions between local and general diseases of the brain, and then lays down special marks whereby to dia- gnose the situation of tumours, &c. Pills of Assafoetida gr. ij, and Sulph. Morpli, gr. \, bisvelquater die sd., recommended in nervous sleeplessness. Gaz. Med. de Lyon, No. 19. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 23. Lamare-Picquot.—On the use of Arsenious Acid in Apoplectic Conges- tion. Bullet, de Therap. Ann. par Jamain, 1861, p. 65. Lamare-Picquot administers arsenious acid in doses up to about one fifth of a grain in the day in all cases where he has reason to believe that the red globules are in excess in the blood. When they amount to more than 54 in 100 parts, signs of cerebral congestion ensue. By the use of arsenic the globules are diminished. Beown-S^quaud, C. E.—Lectures on the Diagnosis and Treatment of the various forms of Paralytic, Convulsive, and Mental Affections, con- sidered as effects of morbid alterations of the Blood, or of the Brain, or of other organs. Lancet, July 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th; Aug. 17th, 31st; Oct. 26th. Brown-Sequard argues that the old view is quite untenable, which re- gards the various symptoms met with in cases of brain disease as directly depending on the loss of function of tlie diseased part. Hemiplegia, paralysis of the face, loss of speech, anaesthesia, alterations of the senses of sight, hearing, &c., epilepsy, catalepsy, loss of memory, delirium, various forms of insanity, may all, he says, be produced by some injury or disease of almost every part of the brain. He ascribes such pheno- mena—(i) to direct injury or disease of the brain; (2) to alterations in the quantity or quality of the blood ; (3) to a reflex influence propagated from an altered part of the brain or its meninges, the mucous or cuta- neous membranes, viscera, &c. The necessity of distinguishing between symptoms of loss of function and symptoms of irritation is strongly in- sisted on, as the two are often confounded, and, in consequence, great mistakes are made in treatment. Symptoms of irritation may be divided into two groups, according as the irritation acts on the central termina- tion, or the more peripheral part of various kinds of nerve-fibres. Sen- sations of pricking, formication, &c., are characteristic of irritation in the brain. Alterations of the blood are shown to be capable of producing ex- tremely grave symptoms, which it may require much care and skill to distinguish from the results of organic disease. The most frequent cause of local paralysis, he affirms, is an irritation in certain parts of the nervous centres or in the trunk or periphery of nerves. This may produce para- lysis in very diff'erent parts in different cases, according to the particular fibres on which the irritation has acted. Instances are given of paralysis of the upper and lower limbs and of the face, of hemiplegia, of insanity and delirium, of contracture and rigidity, produced by reflex influence.