207 EESPIEATOUY SYSTEM. Harkin considers that, in conjunction -with the ordinary hygienic, dietetic, and moral means, Pot. Chlor. is a specific for consumption in its first and second stages, and that for the last it will be found most potent in controlling the hectic symptoms and the colliquative diarrhoea. Bouchard AT.—On the Etiology and Prophylaxis of Pulmonary Tubei'cu- ligation. Supplement to the 'Annuaire de Therapeutique' for 1861. Bouchardat lays down in the first part of his paper the following law:— " Under favouring conditions of age a continuous loss of the aliments of calorification, or a continuously insuflicient supply of them, regard being had to the external temperature and to the requirements of the organi- zation, or even their being insufficiently consumed for a length of time, leads to pulmonary tuberculization. The same law lie expresses also more briefly in another way, viz., a continued insufficient production of heat or exhalation of carbonic acid, regard being had to the requirements of the organism, leads to pulmonary tuberculization. He examines then the influ- ence of age, sex, constitution, temperament, contagion, profession, exertion of the lungs, vaccination, bronchitis, or pleurisy, measles, typhoid fever, depressing moral causes, dress, climate, season, the sea, and hereditary predisposition, and endeavours to show that the effect of all these condi- tions, in so far as they are productive of phthisis, is explicable according to tlie law he has laid down. His rules of prophylaxis are summed up in the direction to " utilise the greatest possible amount of good aliments of calorification." Davis, N. S.—Report on the injlueiice of Alcoholic Drinks on the develop- ment and progress of Pulmonary Tuberculosis. Trans, of Amer. Med. Assoc., vol. xiii, i860. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Oct., 1861. Of 210 phthisical cases, 51 were total abstainers, 15 drunkards, and the remainder had used alcohoHc drinks to a greater or less extent. Cotton, R. Y.—On the action of Fin. Ferri upon Phthisis. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 14th. Of 2_5 patients, 1,3 were greatly improved, 3 slightly, and 9 not at all. The dose was 5ij —l] bis die. The remedy seemed most advantageous in the cases of children and young persons. Beau.—On Tubercular Phthisis. Lancet, Aug. loth, 17th. _ Beau points out the existence of pain in four different regions in this disease —(i) in the middle of the back ; (2) in the three upper intercostal spaces, extending, perhaps, to the cervical or brachial plexuses ; (3) in the hepatic region, produced by pressure; (4) a pain felt on shampooing the thigh a little above the knee. The latter is a very characteristic sign most often met with in young, febrile females. He advocates the use of Plumbi Carb. internally as jiu effective remedy. SiMOK.—Ora the employment of Iodine Inhalations in Pulmonary Phthisis L'.Union Med., March 16th, 1861. Brit, and For. Med -Chir Rev ' July, i86i. " Out of 28 patients, 17 derived positive benefit from the inhalations,