157 NEIIVOTJS SYSTEir. is one year, the longest three. No treatment has as yet_beeu of any avail. ■ . DUCHENNE —On Functional Cramp and Functional Paralysis of Muscles. Bull de Tlie'rap., Iviii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 299. Duchenne gives these names to a disease, winch is characterised either by k'^tin"- painful, or painless contractions, or by clonic spasm and tre- mulous m°ovements, or by paralysis. Tlie commonest example of it is the "writer's cramp," but it may appear in any part where the muscles are over-exerted. Instances are given of its affecting the arm, the foot, and even the abdominal muscles. It is distinctive of the disorder that it only shows itself when certain voluntary or habitual movements are made. Duchenne is inclined to consider the actual seat of the disorder to be, not in the aiTected muscles, but in some point of the nervous centres. Local Faradization is unavailing in most cases, and no other treatment is more successful. The prognosis is consequently unfavorable. DCCHENNE.— Autopsy of a Case of Progressive Paralysis of the Tongue, Palate, and Lip. Gaz. Hebd., viii, 12, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 26. ^ , . , , . No change discoverable by the naked eye could be found in the brain or in the cord. The arteries at the base were atheromatous. The para- lysed muscles were normal. Haupt.—On Writers' Cramp, loith respect to Pathology and Treatment. Wiesbaden, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 44. Haupt adopts Zuradelli's view, that this affection depends primarily on a paralysis of certain muscles used in writing, and that the spasm of their antagonists is secondary. The disorder is associated with squinting, stuttering, choreal symptoms, and various other neuroses, and the rheu- matic seem to be predisposed to it. Electricity to the palsied mus- cles, cold douches to the spine, regulated gymnastic exercises, are advised as remedies. TUPPERT, A.—On the Treatment of Writers' Cramp. Aerztl. Intell. Bl., No. 24. Canstatt's Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 44. Tuppert has obtained some benefit from dividing the tendons of the affected muscles, and recommends the early and constant employment of a bandage to the wrist. Klencke, H.;—The Cure of Stuttering. Leipzig, KoUmann, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 43. Klencke views this disorder as essentially dependent on a scrofulous habit or tendency. His method of cure consists in systematic exercise of the organs of speech. The patient must first learn to breathe regularly and di-eply; then to practise the formation of sounds; and, lastly, they proceed to exercises in speech. In fifteen years he has cured 146'out of 148 cfTses. Friedberc—Oh the Semiotic Import of Involuntary Circular Movement {reitenhahngang), and on Involuntary Rotation on the Lo7ig Axis of theBody. Arch. d. lieilk., ii, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 24.