440 REPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. Deal/is from Chloroform. Med. Times, Sept. iitli nnd 14U1, and Nov. Brit. Med. Jouni,, Nov. i6th. Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. 439, ^47. 344- Pekii[n.— On a case of Poisoning by Benzine. Journ. de Pharmacic, vol. x.Kxi.i, p. 223. M- ^—, a dyer, ret. 47, swallowed by inadvertence about a third of an ordinary glass containing a mixture of three parts of benzine with one of Seltzer water. After several draughts he found out his mistake, and swal- lowed almost immediately a quantity of milk. He at first experienced stupor and giddiness. He went to bed two hours afterwards, and slept restlessly for two hours, when he woke in a state of bewilderment, and shortly afterwards became delirious. His delirium was characterised by extreme garruhty; his articulation was very imperfect, and from time to time he burst out in immoderate laughter. In the morning he was con- valescent, and complained only of giddiness and weakness. No treatment was employed. Tdbnbull.—On the Physiological and Medici7ial Properties of Suli)hule of Aniline. Lancet, Nov. i6th. Dr. TurnbuU relates six cases of chorea, so obstinate as to have resisted other means of treatment, in which he obtained very satisfactory results from the administration of sulphate of aniline in doses of from one to two grains three times a day. Dr. TurnbuU describes the action of sulphate of aniline on animals, and draws attention to the remarkable blue colour of the lips and complexion produced by it, which he attributes to the development of an aniline dye in the blood. Leclaire.—Researches on the injluence of Oil of Turpentine on the health of House Painters, and on persons inhabiting freshly jiainted ■rooms. Paris, 1861. Extract in Ann, d'Hyg^, vol. xvi, p. 442. The author has made experiments on anipials, consisting in placing them in boxes, the interior of which had been painted with paints prepared with and without oil of turpentine. He found that no bad efi'ects were produced when oil of turpentine was not used, whatever was the nature of the colouring matter, but that in the opposite case all the animals suffered. By exact experiments, the author finds that water takes up oil of turpentine with great avidity; and that, consequently, the common expedient of exposing wet hay in recently painted rooms is the very best that can be adopted. Lemaire.—Carbolic Acid as a remedy against OXnea and Scabies. Journ. de Brux,, vol. xxxii, p. 471. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 283. In tinea a solution of one part of carbolic acid in forty of vinegar and 100 of water is used daily as a lotion with good results. In itch a single application is sufficient to kill the acarus. Lejiaire.— On the uses of Phenic {Carbolic) Acid as a disinfectant. Bull, de I'Acad., March 4th. Lemaire has made numerous experiments, at the suggestion of Dumas, which prove the eflicacy of phenic acid in solution or emulsion as