IllSPOllT ON I'llACTlCAL MKDICINE. TuiiNEii, J,—Itemarks on Arsenious Acid in large doses in Fevers as a substitute for Quinine. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. zStli. Tu rner administers Liq. Pot. Arseu. 58s, Tr. Card. co. 5s8, adis Iioris ad vices iv—v, the last dose at least two hours before the expected paroxysm. But little liquid should be taken. He finds arsenic as efFectual, or even more so, than quinine, and quite as safe. He treats neuralgia similarly. L'Union Med., March 9th. Brit. Med. Jour., April 27th. The commission reports that arsenic is a most powerful febrifuge, and that it has unquestionably the property of reducing engorgements of the spleen. BARTELS.— On an Epidemic of Measles at Kiel in i860. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 615. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Bartels treated at the dispensary 573 cases, of which 39 were fatal. In private practice only 2 among 50 died. The chief cause of death M'as a peculiar state of the luugs, which in part were collapsed, with foci of purulent infiltration in various parts, or in other cases a carnified condition. Intense bronchial catarrh was present, extending to the minuter rami- fications, but not of a croupal character. Leeching and emetics, employed moderately, were unsuccessful, but the alternate application of towels dipped in hot and cold water had very good effects, but required to be continued for hours or days. The disease was very prone to relapse, and never pursued the typical course of simple pneumonia. Barensprung, N.— On the Period of Incubation in Smallpox. Annalen des Charite, Krankenhauses, vol. xix, p. IP3. Brit, and For. Med.- Ghir. Rev., July, 1861. Barensprung records seven cases all infected on the same day from the same source. In all the outbreak occurred between the thirteentli and fourteenth days after the exposure. Some were vaccinated, others not. Druitt.—What is a Man^s Security against Smallpox? Med. Times and Gaz., December 14th. Druitt urges the necessity for periodic repetition of vaccination, on account of the imperfect protection afforded by it. Out of any number of men with good vaccine marks, 40 or 41 per cent, only are protected; with doubtful marks the per-centage of protection is 33. Hall, A.—Will a Child born after the Mother has had Smallpox, and contracted after she has conceived, be liable to contract the disease ? Brit. Amer. Jour. Dublin Med. Press, March 20th. Hall records a case in which a child (male) born under the above conditions, but unmarked, was found quite unsusceptible of vaccinaiion, •which was performed twice. Another case is referred to from the expe- rience of Dr. Stranaghan.