SUBJECTS OP GENEUAI; INTEREST. 115 Lki-jdig Fk.— 0)1 the External Coverings of tie Mammalia. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., 1859, p. 677. Caust., vol. i, pp. 31, 37, 39, 49, Amon<^ the\-esults of the author's extended researches on the integu- ments ofthe mammalia may be cited the following :—(i) In the upper strata of the epidermis the cells posses.s no nucleus, whilst those of the reto mucosum are nucleated and (2) even where the hair is white, contaui pio-ment, which in some cases is also deposited in the upper layers of the corium. (3) The deepest, filiform cells of the epidermis do not simply rest on the papillae, but are firmly attached thereto. (4) The fasciculi of the filamentous tissue of the corium are of variable consistence, even in the same animal, and become very dense in the pachyderms; the corium of the rhinoceros is histologically allied to fibrous tissue. (^) In many animals, among which is the dog, sweat-glands, though absent on the general surface, occur on the soles of the feet. The sweat-canals discovered by the author on the head of the bat always terminate in the upper end of a hair-follicle. (6) Contrary to the general opinion, that the cuticular scales of the hair never contain pigment-granules, the author has found then^ in considerable quantity in the case oiBradypus cuculliger. (7) In many mammals {e.g. pachyderms, dog) several hairs spring from a common multilocular follicle, Davt, Dr. JoHJr.—Is Hair subject to sudden Changes in Colour ? Brit, j Assoc. for Adv. of Science, Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 5th, p. 367. Nothing, other than recorded evidence, can be adduced in favour of the popular and affirmative answer to this question. The conclusion come to is, that the idea of fallacy is unavoidable as to the hair being subject to change of colour from mental impressions. Chapuis, p., and Moleschott, J.—On soine points relative to the Struc- ture of the Hair-follicle and the Hair of the Htman Scalp. Mole- schott's Untersuch., vol. vii, p. 325. Canst., vol. i, p. 92. In this paper are detailed the results of numerous precise measurements of the various parts of the hair-follicle and its contents. The other results obtained are these:—(i) The follicle ends by a rounded point, and not, as ; hitherto assumed, hy a bulb. (2) The papilla, one fifth of a millimetre in average height, conical in form, with a somewhat constricted base, docs not consist of areolar tissue, but of polygonal cells, with distinct nucleus * and pale contents. (3) The fibres of the follicular muscles are entwined i with reticulated elastic fibres. (4) The outer root-sheath (rete mueosim) (leaves the follicle uncovered for the lower fourth of a millimetre of its extent, and, accordingly, terminates above the apex of the papilla, whilst (5) the inner sheath ends at the level of the entry of the sebaceous duct, the contents of which thus pass between the outer (now the sole) root- sheath and the hair. (6) The medulla\-y cells are irregular polyhedra, with rounded angles, and contain globular nuclei and several glistening corpuscles imbedded amid fine granules. (7) The root of the hair, com- monly straight, is sometimes bent. WuNDT.—0« the Masticitg of Organic Tissues. Zeitsch. f. rat. Med. i860, p. 267. Canst., vol. i, p.