CinCULATOEY SYSTEJI. 183 as the dilatation of the left ventricle can dilate the right through the medium of the pulmonary circulation, so can the dilatation of ihe right dilate the left through the medium of the systemic circulation. In Canipana's view the mechanical obstructions to the circulation are of" very subordinate consequence; the hypertrophy results from a congenital tendency. Power, J. K.—Observations on Disease of the Aortic Valves, j)roducing both Constriction of the Aortic Orifice and Regurgitation through it iuto the Left Ventricle, accompanied loith abnormal enlargement of the two Internal Mamnumj Arteries and atrophy of the Abdominal Aorta and its Iliac Branches. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Nov., 1861. Power believes that his case establishes the following conclusions:— (i) It is possible to have regurgitant disease in its very early stage without having the second or regurgitant murmur taking the place of the healthy second sound of the heart. (2) Visible pulsation may be distinctly mani- fested without the regurgitant murmur. (3) In this early stage of regurgi- tant disease the functions of the brain may be seriously involved. The patient had paraplegia, palsy of the left arm and of the sphincter ani, and detrusor urinse, with stupor. BiiisTOTVE, J. S.—On Mitral Regurgitation arising independently of Organic Disease of the Valve. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Bristowe relates six cases which presented all the general symptoms and condition of viscera characteristic of this form of disease, and postulates incompetence of the mitral valve as the cause of the systohc bruit which was heard at the heai't's apex during life. As to the cause of the incom- petence, he reviews—(a) spasm of the muscuii papillares, (b) the presence of coagula in the cavities of the heart, (c) dilatation of the auriculo- ventricular openings, and (d) disproportion between the size of the ven- tricular cavities and the length of the chordse tendinete and muscuii papillares. Of these the latter appears to him the most probable, though he admits that dilatation of the orifices may also play in some instances a subordinate part. He believes that just as, according to W. King's view, regurgitation very commonly occurs in the healthy right ventricle, it may also take place in the dilated left ventricle, especially as, by assuming a rounded form, the origin of the papillary muscles become laterally displaced. Debility of the heart, set up by various grave disorders, as typhus, variola, diphtheria, is probably the cause of the dilatation. Skoda.—On the Diagnosis of Cardiac Disease. Deutsche Klinik, 24, 31,37, 42, 48, 1859; 20, 25, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 295. This article gives a detailed summary of Skoda's views, drawn up by Abelles from the professor's lectures. A few of the more novel points arcf all we can notice. More or less depression of the thoracic wall at the time of systole is always observed in adherent pericardium. Bulgino- of the thoracic wall is not dependent on increased impulse in hypertrophy,