451 DELIVEUY, BIUTH, AND INFANTICIDE. appeal to the provincial court, a superarbitrium M'as obtained to the fol- lowing effect:—That the death of the deceased was the direct consequence of the laceration of the colon produced by the prolapsus of the small intestine, through a rupture of the posterior wall of the vagina; that this rupture was exclusively attributable to the rude manipulation of the mid- wife in the introduction of her hand ; and that the laceration of the intes- tine was caused partly by the withdrawal of the hand, partly by the sudden rising of the deceased from her position at the same moment. Unfounded charge against a Medical Practitioner. Brit. Med. Jouru., vol. i, p. 75. A medical practitioner was censured by a coroner's jury for having ordered laudanum stupes for a lady who was at the time suckling an infant six weeks old. The directions given, that the child should not be allowed to suck while the mother was under the influence of opium, were disre- garded ; it was put to the breast, and soon after fell into a sleep from which it never recovered. On this case Dr. Christison remarks as follows: —"Assuming that death arose from the action of opium, the verdict must hold—(i) either that a sucking infant may be poisoned unto death by sucking its mother's milk, and without the mother's experiencing any effect at all from the drug ; or (2) that an infant may die of poisoning with laudanum through exposure to its vapour or fumes ; or (3) that in this particular instance death arose from the child sucking, licking, or lying in contact with the pledgets over-soaked with laudanum." Neither the first nor the second of these assumptions is admissible on general grounds. In support of the third, there was no evidence in the case in question. The only means by which the cause of death could have been determined, viz., the examination of the body, was neglected, so that the imputation contained in the verdict was, in Dr. Christison's opinion, " simply ridiculous." DELIVEKY, BIETH, AND INFANTICIDE. KuNZE.—Child Murder, historically and critically co7isidered. Leipsic, i860. Canst., vol. vii, p. 18. The work of Kunze is an investigation of the various anatomical and physiological questions relating to infanticide in their practical bearing. It is divided into two parts. The first, which is devoted to the physio- logical aspects of the subject, treats of the development of the foetus in each month of pregnancy, and the criteria of maturity afl'orded by the external appearances of the child immediately after birth, and the de- velopment of the osseous system ; under this head reference is made to the diagnosis of congenital defects of ossification from fractures produced by external violence ; as regards the ossification of the epiphysis of the femur, the author concludes that the nucleus of bone may be wanting in ova of any age, and even in mature children that have lived after birth, and that its absence therefore is insignificant. As, however, the nucleus does not in general appear until the last months of pregnancy, or even after birth, an ovum having a nucleus of more than three line's in diameter may be considered mature. The author gives further details as to the measure- ments of the skeleton and soft parts of mature children j another section 4