ABDOMEN. 295 Waited A. G.~Trmimfio Injnnj of the Liver, mith profuse Heeding ; recovery. PhHadelphia Med. aud Siu'g. Bep., June i jth, p. 245. A deep stab with a broad-bladed knife. Cases of Abdominal Section. {Qastrotomy and Enterotomy.') SuAEEZ T GoJiEZ, Dr. 'E.—A case of successfcl Gastrotomy in the nght Kypochondriim for tlie extraction of a foreign lody. El Siglo Med., 291, 1859. Scbmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 72. A man fell from a wagon of hay upon a stake. At first unconscious, he afterwards discovered that the point of the stake, on which he had spitted himself, was wanting, and as it could not be found it was assumed that it was buried in the large wound beneath the right hyi^ochondrium. Tliis was ascertained by a surgeon to extend from the middle of the false ribs in an inward and upward direction. A splinter was pulled out, but the principal piece of the stake- point was not detected. The wound gradually closed; at the ex- piration of fifty days it had only the diameter of a quill, and constantly discharged a large quantity of stiuking pus. The man became weaker, and had constant pain in the region of the liver. In this condition he came under the care of the reporter, who traced the wound with a probe through a quarter circle, which reached from the epigastrium along the convexity of the liver and the diaphragm to the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae. At these points there were indistiuct sensations of foreign bodies ; behind, this seemed to be caused by the transverse process of a vertebra, and in front by the lower border of the false ribs. Gomez, satisfied of the presence of a foreign body, enlarged the wound freely with a bistoury, and exti-acted a pointed piece of wood 3^—4" long, and f" broad. It lay in a cavity inside the second and third false ribs, with its point in the internal intercostal muscle and its base, between this and the liver near the gall-bladder. Pagenstechee, Dr.—Operation (belly-cut) for tlie removal of a pre- swmed Internal Strangulation. Archiv f Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts I and 2, p. 318. Supposing that he had to deal with an intra-abdominal rupture, Pagen- stecher laid open the left inguinal canal by an incision three inches long, parallel to Poupart's ligament. After dividing the muscles, the peri- toneum protruded from the wound and was opened; some cloudy, floccu- lent serum ran off, and a brown-blue object, covered with turgid veins, the supposed hernial sac, came into view. On tracing this with the fingers numerous soft adhesions to the inner wall of the belly were broken down, until the finger could be passed roimd the entire lower end, but no connexion with bowel was discovered. Thinkino- that the obstruction lay higher, the surface of the tumour was cautiously fol- lowed till what seemed to be its upper end was reached. At this pomt_ some cods of intestine were found tightly squeezed against the antenor abdominal walls, and partiaUy adherent. These were freed