88 REPORT OxV THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. The vessels are placed under the influence of the first, while the histo- logical dements obey the power of the second; nutrition may be said to depend on the former, and physiological activity to be aroused by the latter. Gon.—Contribulions to the Minute Anatomy of the Spinal Cord of Man. Memoir of the Med. Chir. Soc. of the|,Canton Zuricli, on occasion of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversaiy of its foundation, 4to, Zurich, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 66. * According to this author—(i) In the anterior (and whiter) part of the gray commissure of the spinal cord, the nerve-fibres proceeding from the anterior hoi'n (motor) clecussate, and then ascend to join the anterior columns. (2) In the posterior (and redder) part is a delicate vascular connective tissue associated with few medullated nerve-fibres. (3) The sensitive fibres do not directly enter the posterior horns, as commonly supposed, but pass on their inner side, some to be lost in the posterior columns, others in the extremity of the posterior horn. (4) The ganglionic cells were never ascertained to communicate with one another or to merge into nerve-fibres. Mater, Db. A. (Mayence)—On tlie Sensory Function of the Spinal Cord. Prag. Vjhrschr., vol. Ixix, p. 44, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, Some years ago Pfliiger called attention to the interesting fact that, when the thigh of a decapitated frog is touched vrith acetic acid, the animal immediately tries to remove the irritant with its foot. "When the acetic acid is applied to the loins, and the foot of the same side amputated, the frog still makes attempts to remove the source of irri- tation by means of the remaining stump, and if it is not successful in these endeavours it becomes very restless, and at last employs the foot of the opposite limb to remove the acid. These and other experiments of a similar character have since been made by many observers, and the general opinion has been that the spinal cord in the fi'og possesses in itself some of the functions of the brain. Mayer has now investigated this subject very fully, and he finds, that not only are the above-men- tioned results correct, but that decapitated frogs are capable of several other voluntary movements—for example, a decapitated frog will swim about in water, will spring away from any source of irritation, and when laid upon its back, will make violent efforts to regain its natural position. These and some other results of minor importance, have led the author to the following conclusions, (i) A decapitated frog still possesses, to a certain extent, sensation and the power of voluntary motion. (2) These functions in the decapitated frog have their seat in the medulla oblongata, and not in the medulla spinalis. (3) The me- dulla spinalis of the frog and animals of a similar class, as well as of animals higher in tlic scale of development, and more especially of man, is not sensitive. Kttkde, p.—The Influence of Heat and Electricity on the Sinnal Cord. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xviii, p. 357, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 19,5. The author finds that, in frogs poisoned by a small dose of strychnine, tetanus may be obviated by putting the animal in a warmer medium