repout on midwiferYj etc. 868 of annealed steel -wire to tlie shaft of a Fcrew (-crnseiir, the flexibility of the rope is thus combined with the strength of the chain. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—On Abortion and Fibrinous Uterine Polypi. Wien. Zt., 33, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 310. The possible occasional origin of fibrinous polypi of the uterus in alterations of the membranes after abortion is here discussed. Sarell, Dr. R.—On the Excision of Polypi in the Cavity of the Uterus. Gaz. Med. d'Orient., iv, 2, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 311. In three successive operations the whole of an intra-uterine polypus of enormous size was removed by the scissors. The bleeding following the operations was inconsiderable. Greenhalgh, Dr.—On the Diagnosis and Treatment of Intra-uterine Polypus. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct., 12th, 1861, p. 373. The author relates a case in which a polypus was removed from the interior of the uterus by the ecraseur, the os uteri having been previously dilated by sponge-tents. Bbaun, Prof.— On Intra-uterine Placental Polypi. Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., i860. Braun believes that a retained placenta is often the cause of formation of polypus-like bodies in the uterus. Cases and facts are related bearing on this question. Smith, Thomas.—A Fibro-muscular Polypus growing from the Uterus, and containing a Cyst and a small fatty Tumour. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 148. McClintock, Dr.—Polypus Uteri; Pudendal Scematocele. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., June i6th, 1861. ScHOLZ.— On Intra uterine Placental Polypi. Oesterr. Zt. f. prakt. Heilk., i860, 47. Schmidt, vol. 112, p., 189. Hewitt, Dr. Graily.—Polypus of the Uterus removed by the Ecraseur. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Steiger.—Severe Metrorrhagia produced by the presence of an old Blood- coayulum in the Uterine Cavity. Verb. d. phys. m. Gesell. zn Wiirzb., 2 and 3, p. 243, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 311. The patient had been the subject of profuse menstruation following pneumonia. Hfemorrhage, which subsequently occurred, was found to be due to the presence of a clot forming a mould of the uterine cavity; this was removed, although with some difficulty. PEEI-TJTEIlIlSrE DISEASES. Trousseaxj, Prof.—On Hcematocele. L'Un., Dec, 1861, pp. $66, &c. Trousseau relates tiie case of a girl set. 16, who died on the nineteenth day of typhoid fever. On opening the abdomen, there were found reddish serosity'and a large hsematic cyst of the rigiit ovary which latter had pnrtuiily burst info the cavity. The hseniatic cyst was the size of a hen's egg, and con- tained a large clot. He then proceeds to discuss the subject of hcematocele