REPOllT ON ntACTICAL MEDICINB. Bell, Jos. —ContribuHoits to the Pathology and Therapeutics of Typhus Fever. No. r^. Treatment of the Intestinal Lesions. Glasgow Med. J., Jan., 1861. Bell considers it of the utmost importance to adapt the treatment to the various stages of the lesion. These he enumerates as—(i) of congestion, commencing about the third day after the rigor; (2) stage of effusion into follicles, occurring about fifth day; (3) stage of consolidation of the effusion and secondary congestion, sixth to ninth day; (4) stage of soften- ing and sloughing, tenth to thirteenth day; (5) stage of ulceration, twelfth to fourteenth day; (6) stage of cicatri'zation ; (7) stage of chronic ulceration; (8) stage of peritonitis; (9) stage of perforation. He attempts to point out a diagnostic relation between the symptoms and these different stages, and then considers the adaptation of the treatment which is requisite. In (i) and (2) he advises a perfectly fluid diet, with fomentations and sinapisms. In (3) frequent and regular appUcation of turpentine stupes, sinapisms or blisters ; the patient is to take less beef tea, but whej"-, mucilage, or acidulated water. In (4), if the symptoms are severe, Acet. Plumbi and opium, diet still very restricted. In (5), if the action of the heart become feeble, the first sound nearly lost, stimulants are to be given freely. In (6), although the appetite returns, the diet is still to be very restricted until after the seventeenth day. In (7) astrin- gents and blisters perseveringly employed. In (8) starvation, blisters, opium, with leeches in the case of the young and strong. In (9) opium and starvation. If hsemorrhage occur before the tenth day, 15ell gives Plumb. Acet. or gallic acid; between tenth and fourteenth, during the period of softening and sloughing, turpentine; after the fourteenth, tur- pentine or lead. The danger is great in this last case, as the bleeding generally proceeds from the erosion of a blood-vessel; if it be a large one, death may ensue rapidly. ' No. 6, Affections of the Brain and Nervous System. Diseases of the Pulmonary Organs. Bell describes five varieties of brain affections—(i) Slight rambling, occurring from tenth to fourteenth day. Careful watching is all that is necessary. (2) A state of sopor, attended with "cerebral respiration," coming on about the twelfth or thirteenth day, and ending, if not clieclced, in profound coma. Purgation, a blister to the scalp, and strong tea or coffee, are advised, with small doses of antimony if the heart's action is good. (3) Sleepliness, with delirium and subsnltus, coming on about the fourteenth day, with or without weakened action of the lieart. In the former case wine, and perhaps an opiate, are called for. In the latter, purgation, tartar emetic, and leeches to the head. (4) Delirium, with con- stant excitement, coming on about eighth day, either in sthenic or asthenic general condition, and requiring accordingly either wine and opiates or tartar emetic and blisters. Both classes, however, are to be restrained by the strait waistcoat. (5) Intense and constant headache from the outset, followed on fifth or sixth day by fierce delirium, ending in coma. An autopsy shows severe cerebral congestion, and often eflusion into ventricles. Leeches to head and purgation are to be used in the enrly period, tartar emetic in the stage of delirium, a blister to the scalp and tea or stimu- lants in the coma, The diagnosis from cephalitis is not easy. The lesions