SECRETOHY SYSTEM. 217 ftbnnclant, and tlie sp. gr. comparatively liigli. Casts imbedding entire epithelial cells are characteristic of the disorder. Granular degeneration is to be recognised by a gradual failure of health, with sharpening of the features, and discoloration of the sldn, M'hile dropsy is often absent or of small extent. Frequency of micturition is observed, especially at night and there is great liability to bronchitis. There is also a tendency to valvular disease of the heart, as well as to extravasation of blood within the cranium. Epileptic convulsions sometimes occur, but a fatal state of semi-coma often comes on, without any such antecedent. The urine is increased in quantity except in the later stages, of low sp. gr., and often containing only a trace of albumen. The casts most commonly found are of coarse, granular texture. Dickinson does not consider cardiac as a frequent cause of renal disease. Stewart, T. G.—On the Waxij or Amyloid Form of Bright's Disease. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb. Stewart, after noticing the observations of Virchow, Pagenstecher, and Meckel, describes the renal disease as follows—" A kidney which has un- dergone the waxy or amyloid degeneration is generally heavier and larger than natural; its capsule is easily separable ; the surface uniformly pale, or marbled here and there with red, stellate vessels. On section, the cortical substance is seen i-elatively increased in size, pale and antEmic, of a dim, waxy appearance, but containing here and there small, shining granules the Malpighian tufts. On microscopic examination, the Malpighian bodies are seen to be remarkably pale and translucent, and the convoluted tubes around them filled to distension with a dense matter. The tufts of vessels cannot be seen in the Malpighian bodies. The contents of the urinary tubules present no recognisable structure, or only epithelium in a state of fatty degeneration. The Malpighian bodies and their afferent arteries, and sometimes the basement-membraue of the tubes are coloured of a violet-blue or reddish-purple by the addition of solution of iodine and sulphuric acid, but the dense material filling the tubes does not give this reactiou. Stewart considers it to be a coagulated exudation. The urine is increased in quantity and is of low sp. gr., contains albumen, and deposits hyaline casts. The white corpuscles of the blood are increased in number, and the red appear flabby, with a marked tendency to stretch out into long, spindle-shaped bodies. Dropsy occurs mostly in the latter stage of the disease. Diarrhcea is a frequent and severe symptom, and is thought by Stewart to depend upon degeneration of the arteries of the intestines. The liver and the spleen are often enlarged by the same morbid process. Persons who have long suff'ered from wasting disease, such as scrofula, caries, necrosis, or syphilis, are prone to become the subjects of this affection. Eade, p.—On Syphilitic Albuminuria. Lond. Med. Review, Sep., 1861. Eadc records three cases of morbus Brightii treated by Pot. lod. and Sarza with more or less complete success, symptoms of constitutional syphilis being present in all, and being ameliorated by the same treatment that .benefited the renal affection. He concludes—(i) that syphilis may be classed as a distinct and special cause of Bright's disease; (2) when so acting, its presence will be determined by the co-occurrence of other and