KEl'OKT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. 12 a View Kupportecl by the fuet tliat iu some inarsupiiils tlicre is no such union, and tho patella—Ihe homologue of the olecranon—is connected with the (moveable) fibula. (2) 'J'he surlace of the outer condyle of the tibia and that of the patella together eorresjjond to the Higmoid cavity of the ulna, whilwt the surface of the inner condyle answers to the glenoid cavity of the radius. (3) The anterior tuberosity of the tibia is analogous to the up])er portion of the posterior margin of the ulna below the olecranon. (4) The upper third of the fibula is, therefore] considered to express only the fore part of the ulna. The muscles of the limbs are classified by the author into—(i) such as are inserted at both ends into homologous points of bone, (2) such as have but one homologous attachment, and (3) those without trace- able homologues. The diiierences in the course of the main arteries, and in the division and course of the nerves, of the two extremities, are very plausibly traced to a virtual torsion of the humerus. Htbtl.—Pneumatic Occipital Bones. "VVien. Med. Woshenschr., i860, No. 4^. Canst., vol. i, p. 95. Among 600 skulls the author found three which, at the occipital in- sertion of the rectus capitis lateralis, presented a flat eminence, about the size of a hazel-nut, containing cells in communication with those of the mastoid process. In one of the thi-ee this structure existed only on one side. Adams, William (Eoyal Orthop.)—On Curvatmes of the Spine. Med. Times and G-az., Sept. 7th, p. 235. The author makes the following statements regarding the healthy anatomy of the human sjiine:—The moveable portion of the spinal column, above the sacrum, is composed of twenty-four vertebrae, the bodies of which, except the two first bones, are separated from each other by the intervertebral fibro-cartilages, through the medium of which it may also be said that the bodies of the vertebrte indirectly articulate with each other; but the bones are directly connected only by the oblique articular processes, the situation of which, posterior to the bodies and to the spinal canal, it is important to bear in mind, as we shall see that in various movements of the body in which the spine is bent sideways the weight is thrown upon these articular processes, which are therefore liable to yield and become altered in form in the earliest stage of distortion of the spine. In the erect position of the body the weight is directly transmitted through the bodies of the ver- tebrae and the intervertebral cartilages, which, including that between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum, are twenty-three in number. In a male five feet ten and a half inches high the spine gave the fol- lowing measurements: Total length of the spine above the sacrum (the measurement following the Indies, curves along the centres of the bones and cartilages) .... 2y6 Total length of tlie spine in a straight line, taken by a cord strained from tlie upper edge of the sacrum to tlie summit of the atlas .... 23'i Sum total of tlie tliickne^s of the twcmly-tbree intervertebral cartilages be- tween the sacrum and tlic axis, measured through tlieir centres . . S'9 Sum total of the thickness of the bodies of the twenty-four vertebra;, at their centres T7