llEPORT ON SUllGEEY. 252 Paget.—C//.V//6- Dimtsc of the Lower Jaw, of Iwclcc i/carti' duralion; extiquUioii of the ri(/ht half; recovery. Jjaiicet, Jau. 5th, p. 7. CooTE.—Concienital Cystic Tumour in the Lower Jaw of an Infant; re- moval. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 207. The right half of this bone, enormously enlarged, formed a tumour that reached downwards to the chest. Its rapid growth threatening suffocation at an early period, Coote laid bare the tumour, cut through its thin, bony wall, and turned out a nest of cysts. The infant, only six mouths old, died from the exhaustion caused by the profuse drain of pus from the wounds. Adams, Wm.— 'Epithelial Cancer of the Loiver Jaw, for which one half of that hone toas excised; yood recovery. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 8. AIE-PASSAGES. Various Affections of the Nose. HlAET DE MiTGEOK.—Ejyisfaxis arrested by Diyital Compression. Journ. de Med. de Bordeaux. Journ. deMed. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, Oct., part 10, p. 465, art. 6106. Believing that the bleeding iisually comes from a point of the septum ■within reach of pressure with the fingers, H. de Mugron directs the alse of the nose to be pinched with the finger and thumb, and says that at the end of five minutes the bleeding is infallibly stopped. Betant.—Adhesion between the Septum JVasi and the Lower Turbinated Bone. Lancet, Aug 31st, p. 207. This probably resulted from ulceration of the mucous membrane. Demaequat.—Hypertrophy of the Mucous Ifemhrme of the Inferior Turbinated Bone. Gaz. des Hopit., 29, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. II, p. 200. ' Pancoast.—Plastic Operation for the formation of a Neio Nose. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. 9th, p. 509. A short historical account of rhinoplasty. Demaequat.—Deviation of the Septmn of the Nose, in consequence of a bloio with a fist; cure by a new 02)eration. Gaz. des Hop., 118, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 71. Demarquay split the nose in the middle line to the upper lip, dissected off the mucous membrane from the triangular cartilage which projected into the left nostril, and cut away so much of this cartilage as obstructed the nostril. Uee.—Polyploid Bony Growth from the Septum and Floor of the right Nostril; successful removal. Lancet, Api'il 27th, p. 411. Edwaeds, E. S.—Operation for the removal of a Naso-pharyngeal Poly- pus. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 265. Edwards passed a loop of strong iron wire along the floor of the nose into the fauces, opened it with his fingers, and slipped it round the tumour. By strong traction the upper part of the tumour was dragged