175 MUSCULAE SYSTEM. Palati, and Lips. Arch. Gen^r. de Med., Sept., Oct., i860. Br. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan, , , Legouest.—Case of intermittent Wry Neck. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th. Oppolzee.—O;^ Muscular Atrophij. Spitals-Zeitung, Nos. 11, 12, 15. Canst. Jalirb., vol. iii, p. 85. Anstie.— Case of Muscular Atrophy following Acute Rheumatism. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 2nd. Inmann, T.—0?i the Pathology of Sciatica. Brit. Med. Journ., March 30th. luman thinks that sciatica may be, and very frequently is, dependent upon muscular contraction in enfeebled, unusually irritable, or imperfectly palsied muscles, and that the pain is often in direct proportion to the •weakness of the muscular fibre. Jago, J.—Obsciwe Trunk Paiiis ; or, chronic pains in the Abdominal and Thoracic Walls. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April. Jago examines the effect of the weight of the upper part of the body on the parts that have to support it in producing pain, and describes a kind of chair contrived so as to obviate such uneasiness. Pahmentieb.—Cancer of Muscular Tissue. L'Union M6d., Aug. .22nd, 29th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 19th. The symptoms of primary cancer in its ordinary form are the following. There is at first a tumour of the size of a pea, hard, moveable, and yet adherent to the muscle. It may exist a long time without causing incon- venience. At length, however, it becomes as large as a pigeon's or hen's egg, is soft, elastic, and moveable when the muscle is relaxed, but fixed when the muscle is contracted. If the tumour be not soon removed it rapidly increases in size, and passing beyond the muscle, may affect the neighbouring parts. Pain may not be felt for a long time, until, in fact, the tumour has begun to affect the skin. The cancerous tumour of muscle has to be diagnosed from syphilitic tumour, hydatid, and some forms of cold abscess. Kuchenmeister.—The Symptoms and Treatment of Trichina Spiralis, at an early period of the development of that form of parasite. Deutsche Klinik, i, 1861. Patients thus affected are in a sub-typhoid condition, but neither diarrhoea nor typhoid eruption, nor any notable enlargement of the spleen, is present; they experience violent muscular pains on the least movement; sometimes dysphagia, hoarseness, and strabismus, or a very limited mobility of the eyeball, are observed. If such symptoms are present the muscular tissue of the patient should be microscopically examined. The treatment is to consist of purgatives, frequent and small doses of 01. Tereb., with powdered fern-root.—' Lond. Med. Rev.,' March, i8(5i. Bambekgek, H.—Remarks respecting progressive Muscular Atrophy. ■ Oesterrh. Ztschr, f. prakt. Heilk., No. 7. Canst. Jahresb, vol. iii, p. 85. Bamberger records three cases, with analyses of the blood and urine of the third. The chief results were that the sulphuric acid of the urine was