8 HEPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. example, ai-o bent b}' tlie force of the liuman arm, and they become in that way reservoirs of mechanical power. The meclianical power which is communicated to them by tlie force of the luiman arm is afterwards ^iveu out, by a Avatch, gradually, during the next day, while by the cross-bow the power is spent suddenly. The elas- ticity of air can be a motive power in the same way as the elasticity of solid bodies; if air is compressed, it can move other bodies; for instance, the air-gun acts on the same principle as the cross-bow. The air is compressed by the force of the human arm; it becomes a re- servoir of mechanical power, and, if it is shot off, the power is commu- nicated to the ball in the form of vis viva, and the ball has afterwards the same mechanical power as is communicated to the ball of a gun loaded with powder. Tlie elasticity of compressed gases is also the motive power of the inightiest of our engines—the steam-engine, but here the case is different; the machinery is moved by the force of the compressed vapours, but the vapours are not compressed by the force of the human muscles, as in the case of the compressed air-gun. The compressed vapours are produced immediately in the interior of the boiler by the heat which is commimicated to the boiler from the fuel. In this case, therefore, the heat comes in the place of the force of the human arm, so this example proves that heat is also a motive power. On the other hand, heat can also be produced by mechanical power, namely, by friction and the concussion of inelastic bodies. A piece of iron can be brought to a high temperature, so that it may become glowing and luminous, by only beating it continuously with a hammer. In the steam-engine it is evident that heat is the origin of motive power, but the heat is produced by burning fuel, and, therefore, the origin of the motive poAver is to be found in the fuel, that is, in the chemical forces of the fuel and in the oxygen with which the fuel combines. From this we see that the chemical forces can produce mechanical work, and be measured by the same units and the same measures as any other mechanical force. The whcjle universe represents such a system of bodies, endowed with different sorts of forces and energy, and, therefore, we conclude from the facts above named that the amount of working power or energy in the w^hole universe must ever remain the same. The first exposition of this general jjrin- ciple was published in Grermauy, by Mr. Mayer of Heilbron, in the year 1842. Mr. Mayer, (a medical man) was much interested in the solution of physiological questions, and he found out the principle of the conservation of force while engaged in physiological inquiries. At first sight, it seems very remarkable and curious that a physiologist should have discovered this law. It Avould appear more natural had it been detected by a natural philosopher or engineer; there is, indeed,^ however, so close a connexion between the fundamental questions of engineering and the fundamental questions of physiology that the same law applies to both. In order to get a machine into motion it is necessary to have motive j^ower, eitiier in the shape of water, fuel, or living animal matter. If the living body be compared to a steam-engine, there is a complete analog3^ Tiie iiviiig body changes a certain amount of food into carbonic acid, water, and nitrogen,