26 REl'ORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP JIEDICINE, Fm. coagulum from the ventricle, on placing the heart in fluid we find that the flaps of the auriculo-ventricular valve are borne up to a cer- tain extent towards the auriculo-ventricular opening (see fig. a) ; but the latter does not become closed without employing force, as with a streain of water thrown with a sy- ringe from the direction of the auricle, and this closure is not perfect nor sustained without first shutting down the semilunar valves, which is best done thus:—for a human heart an elastic self-supplying syringe, Avith a tube of like diameter with the aorta or pulmonary artery, is adapted to eitlier vessel and its semilunar valves shut down, gentle pressure being maintained by the fingers npon the bottle in imitation of the elastic pres- sure of the aorta or pulmonary artery. If the ventricle be now in- jected, the closure of the valve is instantaneous, its upper surface be- coming convex (not funnel-shaped), and its under surface deeply concave (see fig. i). From this it will be seen, Halford thinks, upon reflection, that the auriculo-ventricular valve must be closed previous to the systole of the ventricle, as in fig. i, otherwise the ventricle could not thoroughly be filled, nor could the valve itself perform its office properly, for as the ventricle contracts and its base descends, the valve would be made to yield towards the auricle at the very time it is required to be un- yielding. But with the valve closed by the end of the auricular con- traction there is not only no chance of yielding towards the auricle, but the ventricle is in that condition to exert its power most instanta- neously and effectively, as the prime mover—the fans et origo—of the circulation. The rajndiiy and poiver of its action ivould he impaired were any of its force expended in a haclcward direction, had it indeed to close the auriculo-ventricular, previous to opening the semilnmr, valves! Flo. 2.—A (liagram representing (he condition of the ventricle ;ind of tlic nuvicnlo-vcntricular vnlve, if, as is generally taught, the latter is closed by the contraction of the ventricle. The upper Blu-face of the valve is concave, t!ie capacity of the ventricle is thus lessened, and at the instant of its contraction not the semilunar, but the nnncnto- venlricular rnlve xoouUi he raised, by which both time and power would be lost. EiTfB-RODT.—On the Influence of the Bespiratory Movements on fJieSeart's Impulse and on the Blood-pressure. Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Acad., vol. X, i860, p. I. Moleschott's Untersuch.,vol.iii, p. 265. Canst., vol. i, pp. 8, 125. These elaborate researches were made in Ludwig's laboratory, on dogs. One scries of observations was made while the respired air was sub- jected to pressure, and another diiriug rarefaction of the air, by an ingenious apparatus connected with the trachea of the animal.