62 hepoiit on the institutes of jiedicine. if it was taken n few monlha after the termination of tlie mercurial treatment, mercury did not reappear in the Hystem, probably because none was left behind. One patient who had sulTercd from syphilis for five years, and had been three times treated with mercury (the last time very energetically), having used twenty drachms of ointment, equivalent to more than 120 grains of mercury), died of pericarditis two months after the third course, and Dr. Schneider searclied for merciu-y in the internal organs. The residt was that the bones, the brain, and the sjileen, whicli are generally believed to retain mercury for years, did not contain a trace of it, while the kidneys showed an infinitesimal quantity of the metal, and the residt of the examination of the liver w.aa doubtful. It is, therefore, evident that mercury entirely disappears from the system a short time after the end of the treatment, and cannot, therefore, cause secondary syphilitic symptoms; nor can it be eliminated from the system years after the treatment by electro- chemical baths. In two cases of hydrargyrosis considerable quan- tities of mercury were discovered in the urine, and in one of them, which ended fatally, also in the internal organs, especially in the liver. Urine which contains mercury does not necessarily contain albumen also, but in the two last-mentioned cases of hydrargyrosis there was albumen in the rn-ine. Saliva collected during a mercurial treatment does not contain any mercury. The quantity of mercury which is eliminated after the end of the treatment amounts to about one fourth of that actually administered. TtJENEE, W., M.B.—0)1 tlie Mode of Mimination of the Metal Man- (janese loJieii employed medicinally. Ed. Med. Journ., April, ■p. 903. The author analysed the urine of two persons to whom the perman- ganate of potash had been administered during three weeks for the treatment of diabetes, and found that manganese is freely eliminated from the system by the kidneys. He did not ascertain in what state the metal was in the urine, but thinks it probable that it was in the form of a chloride or sulphate, or perhaps of both. Turner says that, while his observations do not preclude the possibility of a pai-tial elimi- nation of the metal taking place by the liver, as has been generally stated, yet the evidence upon which that statement has been made is neither very clear nor very extended, for it seems rather to have been based upon a siipposed analogy between the mode of excretion of manganese and such metals as arsenic and antimony, than upon a direct e.xperimental inquiry. Spender, J. K. — The Syimlermic Action of Atropia. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 23rd, p. 554. The physiological eflects of this alkaloid must, in a certain measure, be produced if benefit is to follow the hypodermic use of the drug. Dry- ness of the fauces, sensation of enlargement of the tongue, dilatation of the pupils, and intellectual hallucinations, have been observed after veiy mocferate doses.