REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 10 In the first part of this paper the author gave the results of some ex- periments with madder upon the bones of pigs. They were confirmatory ot the observations by Hales, Duhamel, Hunter, and others, that the elongation is efifected by addition at the ends of the shafts, the addition being efi'ected by growth and ossification of the epiphysial strata of cartilage on the side next to the shaft. The experiments further showed that the growth at the two ends of the shaft is unequal; that it is visually most rapid at the larger end of the bone ; and that it is always most rapid at the end where the epiphysial cartilage remains latest—that is to say, the growth proceeds most rapidly at the end where it is longest continued. The proper relation of the soft parts to the bone during the periods of growth is maintained by the interstitial growth of the periosteum, and by the continual sliding or shifting of that mem- brane upon the bone towards the end at which the growth is most rapid. This is attended with a certain traction upon the medullary and other A'essels, and determines the direction of the canal for the medullary artery, which is always slanted towards that epiphysis which is last ossified to the shaft, in other words, towards that epiphysial line in which growth proceeds most quickly. The amount of growth in the respective epiphysial lines corresponds exactly on the two sides of the body, though that on the one side is not afi'ected by the other, and it appears to regulate the amount of growth of the soft parts, for, if it be either arrested or accelerated, the growth of the soft parts is affected in a similar manner. In the second part of the paper the author showed the common impression, that a stump keeps pace with the rest of the body in its growth, to be erroneous. He did this by measurements made upon persons who had undergone amputation in childhood, and by experiments upon animals. The rate of growth varies. The stump rarely maintains its relation to the corresponding segment of the other limb, and it fails to do so most markedly in those parts in which the growth of the bone takes place chiefly at the low^r end. The informa- tion derived from the measurements of stumps is shown to be quite corroborative of the observations made, in the first part of the paper, respecting the growth of the bones at their epiphysial lines. The instances in which the bone of a stump elongates so as to be troublesome and require a portion to be removed are regai-ded by the author as quite exceptional, the phenomenon being probably due to some irritation, and being, therefore, of the same nature as the spicules and exostoses which are occasionally found upon stumps and on other parts of the skeleton. Olliee.—On the Longitudinal Ch-oivfh of the Bones of the Limbs, and the share tvhich their two extremities talce in the process. Comptes Eendus, Jan. 28tli, 1861, p. 130. By inserting leaden nails into the centre of the longitudinal diameter of the long bones of growdng animals—rabbits, fowls, sheep, &c., and after the lapse of some weeks or even months obserA-ing the relative position of the nails, this experimenter has discovered that the bones do not increase equally in length at both ends. I St. The humerus increases in length more at its upper than at its lower extremity. 2nd. In the radius and nlnn, on the other hand, the increase in length 1