SECRETORY SYSTEM. 221 into consideration other possible causes of diuretic action than those in- vestio-ated by Weikart. He states that Pot, Acet. causes diuresis only wheu it is given in dropsies from renal disease, where it acts by dissolving the casts that obstruct the renal tubules. He also adduces proof, that agents such as alcohol, which increase the blood-pressure, by no means constantly promote diuresis. Genoves y Tio (El Siglo Med., June, i86t) praises Cainca root as an efficient diuretic in dropsy. It is also aperient and tonic. The dose is sixty grains a day of the powder. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 167. Debout, Trousseau, and Caudmont.—On some of the Therapeutic Effects of Cubebs. Bull, de Therap., 61, July, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 167. Debout recommends it in atonic flatulent dyspepsia, in giddiness and weakening of the memory, and in chronic inflammation of the neck of the bladder. Trousseau gives it in catarrhal urethritis, which mostly occurs in females. Caudmont advises its use especially in neuralgic and inflammatory aff'ections of the deeper parts of the urethra. Feuon, a. li.—On Primitive Perinephritis. Thesis, Paris, i860. Feron states this to be a very rare disease, but has observed two cases himself and collected some others. It affects the fat bed round the kidney, and issues usually in suppuration. The pus tends outwards oftenest in the lumbar region, but sometimes diff'uses itself among the muscles, or makes its way along the ureter to the prostate or to Poupart's ligament; occasionally it escapes into the colon, or through the diaphragm into the bronchi, or into the cavity of the peritoneum. It arises either spontaneously or from an injury. Surgical interference is generally needful. Oppolzeu.—Inflammntion of the Pelvis and Calyces of the Kidney. Spitals Ztg., 17, 18. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 266. Oppolzer lays down that the acid reaction of the urine is characteristic of pyelitis, distinguishing it from cystitis, in which the urine is always alkaline. Another characteristic sign is the presence in the sediment of imbricated, caudate, epithelial cells, detached from the aff"ected mucous surface. These arc most likely to be found in acute cases. In chronic the urine is copious, and contains pus. Thompson, H.—On a new Remedy in Irritable Conditions of the Bladder. Lancet, October 12th. This is the underground stem of the Triticum repens, which should be gathered in the spring, shortly before the leaves appear, and slowly dried without artificial heat. An infusion is made of 5] of the stem to Oj, of which 5xij —Oj is to be taken in twenty-four hours. It is useful in various conditions of acute or subacute inflammation of the urinary passao-es, with mucus in the urine. Smo)-er, M.—Studies of Oxaluria. Vierteljhrschr. f. d. prakt. Heilk., vol. Ixx, 1861. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc. Smolcr states that all diseases in which sediments of oxalate of lime occur ill the urine may be ranked as either (i) lesions of respiration,