NERVOUS SYSTEM. 159 has an important share in the production of reflex paralysis, maintains that its over-excited incitability through the sympathetic has no less in- fluence. Gaiednek, Lockhart Clarke, Adamson, and Bell.—0« an important Case of Muscular Atrophy, accompanied with Disease of the Spinal Cord. Arch, of Med., Oct., 1861. P—, set. 65, suffered about five years before his death from neuralgic pains in the balls of the thumbs, which extended ere long to the forearms and arms. After some months marked weakness of the hands was appa- rent, as well as wasting of the muscles of the thumbs and index-fingers, which became habitually bent towards the palms, while subsequently the hands were flexed on the wrists, and the forearm pronated. His general health at this time was good, but it declined, and the pulse became acce- lerated before his death. Latterly he complained of the most intense pain in the arms and hands and throughout his body. No trace of lead afl'ection. No remedies were of any avail. In the later periods of the disease the patient manifested a pitiable state of mental irritability and hypochondriac depression. No disorder of intellect or of the special senses. At the autopsy no morbid change was found except some in- flammatory congestion and oedema about the larynx, some undue sub- araclinoid effusion, some shrinking and granular change of the right third nerve, and some granular alteration of the wasted muscles. The cerebellum, pons Varolii, and spinal cord, were examined minutely by Mr. L. Clarke, who detected in the posterior gray substance of the latter unnaturally transparent streaks, patches, or spots, occupied by a granular substance. These spots appeared to be most numerous about tlie middle of the cervical enlargement, and diminished upwards and downwards. In one of them a vacant space was found, with broken ends of nerve-fibres projecting into opposite sides of the space. Around the central canal of the cord and the medulla oblongata, and in the spinal anterior and posterior commissures, there was a considerable deposit of corpora amylacea. The floor of the fourth ventricle was covered with minute granular elevations, consisting of aggregations of the ordinary epithelial cells. Meyer.—On Pacchionian Gramdations. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 19th. Meyer considers that these are hypertrophied villi of the arachnoid, which are developed in consequence of the pulling and dragging produced by hypersemia and anaemia of the brain. They are sometimes highly developed in the median cranial fossa, and may then cause injury to the fifth nerve, attested in one case by neuralgia of all its branches and de- structive inflammation of the eye. Peacock,.T. B.—Notes on the Treatment of Delirium Tremens by large doses of Tincture of Digitalis. Med. Times and Gaz., August 3rd, 1861. Peacock adopts provisionally the following conclusions:—ist, that the drug, when exhibited in full doses, does not by any means produce the amount of depression which our previous experience of its action, in small and frequently repeated doses, would have led us to expect; and, and, that the remedy in conjunction with other means may probably be very