REPOllT ON MIDWIFEliy, KTC. 400 Hutchinson, Jonathan.—C/n«V«/ Report on True Ringworm {Tinea Tonsurans). Med. Times and Giiz., Jan. 5th and I2tli, 1861. Forty-nhie cases observed by the author form the basis of tiiis report, the facts concerning which are succinctly stated. The conclusions drawn by the author are as follows:—i. True ringworm, or tinea tonsurans, is a disease affecting either the scalp, or the general surface. Circular patches are formed, on which the hairs break off short, and a slight branny desquamation is seen, both hair and epidermic scales exhibiting under the microscope the sporules and thalii of a fungus. 2. llingworm in the scalp is rarely seen excepting in children ; but, on the general sur- face, is not very infrequent in young adults. 3. It is contagious, and spreads by contagion only. 4. It is not attended by any peculiar form of dyscrasia, but on the contrary often attacks children in perfect health, ij. It is much more easily curable when on the general surface than when on the scalp, owing to the circumstance that in the latter situation the fungus has obtained access to the follicles of the hairs. ^, Being a purely local disease, ringworm does not require per se any constitutional treatment. 7. A purely local treatment if efficiently pursued is always and rapidly successful. 8. Epilation and the use of one or other of the known parasiticides are the measures of treatment required. 9. There is no real difference between ringworm on the scalp and ringworm on the general surface. 9. It has no true analogy with herpes. Vanveiits.—On the Syphilitic Pemphigus of Newborn Children. Gaz. des II6p., Nov. 7th, 1861. Waiil.—Fatal Bleeding from a Ncevus. Med. Ztg. Russl., 42, i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. ly^J. The bleeding followed the application of a blister to the chest (on which the neevus was situated) for the cure of a cough, in an infant 11 months old. The child died. , Legroux.—On the treatmeiit of the Umbilical Erysipelas of Newborn Children. Gaz. des Hop., 57, i860. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 64. The author recommends that the surface be painted with glycerine, and that a powder be then applied, composed of equal parts of fine flour, oak bark, and calomel. SwiTir, Dr. J. Lewis.—J^j/i/nfiYe Erysipelas. Am. Med. Times, June 22nd, 1861. c. 1 • 1 QiiK'X:-e.^\n.—Cephalha;maloma. Gaz. des H6p., 125, i860. Schmult, vol. "Kiv-V^^!—Fatal Case of Cephalhcematoma. Mon. f, Geb., May, 1861, p. 326. JiEVWL.—CephalhcEmatoma. L'Un., April, 1861, p. 96. Fergusson, Vvol—Medullary Tumour of the Cheek in an Infant aged three months. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 7th, 1861, p. 5S0. Biermer.—^« unusual case of Scarlatina. Yirch. Arch., Canstatt, vol. iv, p. 385. , There was complete anuria for 108 hours, and an almost complete