KEPORT OX THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 70 first-mentioned subject the contraction of the uncovered portion of the internal intercostal muscle during inspiration was very obvious. In coughing, the interspaces became bulged, the intercostal muscles being relaxed. (2) The transit of an electric current along an intercostal space caused contraction of its muscles and elevation and prominence of the lower rib, a condition not reversed in either act ot forced breathing nor modified if a rib was first fi.\ed by pressure with the finger. (.3) It ■was remarked iu a boy five years old, when under the influence of ebloroform, that at first the breathing was eosto-abdomiual, when the internal muscles were seen to contract during inspiration. (4) Sub- sequently the respiration became purely abdominal, and then the same muscles ceased to contract and the upper spaces fell in during inspiration, which was attended with detraction of the lower ribs. (5) It was observed in aotherized rabbits that, if air was admitted to the pleural cavity by a puncture, the intercostals acted more vigorously. But although expiration is here very forcible, it was never accompanied by contraction of the internal muscle. (6) The author infers from these facts that both orders of intercostal muscles act simultaneously, and only in inspiration, calm or forcible, whilst in every mode of expi- ration they are relaxed. Schoemacker is of opinion, from clinical and anatomical considera- tions, that in thoracic expiration and abdominal inspiration the internal muscular stratum approximates and detracts the ribs, although it may sometimes co-operate with the external (inspiratory) fibres. GrEEHAEDT, C.—The Position of the Diaphragm. Tubingen, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 132. ■ The only observation of the author's which need be quoted is, that the diaphragm, by its contraction, expands the base of the chest in pro- portion to the resistance of the abdominal wall, but that when the abdomen is laid open it draws the ribs inwards. OwsJANNiKOW.—On the stoppage of the Bsspiratory Process in Expi- o-ation during Irritation of the central end of the Vagus. Virchow's Archiv, i8(5o, vol. xviii, p. 457. Canst., vol. i, p. 189. The author's experiments on dogs showed that (i) faint electric currents applied to the proximal portion of the vagus have no effect in modifying the respiration ; (2) currents of medium intensity only mo- mentarily check it, though in some cases inspiration becomes more and more shallow, until the breathing stops in deep expiration, and (3) strong currents arrest the chest-movements in expiration for periods of three to ten seconds. Budge, J.—Efects of dividing the Phrenic and Vagus Nerves. (Extracts from his physiological lectures.) Deutsche EQinik, No. 32, i860, This experimenter observed that—(i) If all the roots of the phrenic nerve of one side be divided (in the rabbit), the sound half of the diaphragm alone contracts, whilst the intercostal muscles act more ■vigorously. If the animal's i\pse and mouth be obstructed, the para- 1^-sed half of the diaphragm is raised. (2) If a rabbit survives the