S15 SEOBJETORY SYSTEM. grains in the twenty-four hours, the quantity from ^4 to 62 oz. In another, case on a purely meat diet, with Opii gr. j, ter die, the sugar completely disappeared. Seager, J.—On Sugar in the Urine. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi, p. 218. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Seager gives fourteen cases of diabetes, in each of which the daily amount of sugar was determined once at least weekly. His conclusions are—(i) That elimination of sugar by the urine is either an independent disease or a symptom of another morbid process. Of fourteen cases, twelve were independent, two were symptomatic. (2) In some of the cases the sugar apparently originated from the starchy food, the in- creased use of flesh food causing a speedy disappearance of the urinary sugar. In others, however, the sugar-formation occurred at the cost of the gelatinous parts of the body, and remained even on an exclusively flesh diet. (3) Of the fourteen cases, eleven were men, and three women; the youngest man aged twenty, the eldest seventy-three. C4) and (j) The use of a flesh diet was found of the greatest importance, but had no efiiect on the disease itself, the cause of sugar-formation. Carlsbad waters were the most eflBcient remedy; by their use the elimi- nation of sugar was always essentially reduced or entirely prevented, though not in all cases to an equal extent, or with the same rapidity. (6) In the earlier periods of most of the cases the reaction of the urine with Fehling's test solution was very clear and unequivocal, but in the later periods the reaction was by no means similar, and quantitative determination impossible. Foster, M.—Case of Diabetes ; cure. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 19th. The disease appeared to originate from exposure to excessive cold; it ceased under abstinence from farinaceous food, and the use of chlorodyne X(\xx quatuor die. Hill, \V. R.—On the occurrence of Glucosuria in cases of Burn. Arch; of Med., Jan., 1861. Hill relates four cases in which sugar was detected in the urine some hours after the occurrence of the injury. He propounds the theory, to explain the supervention of the mellituria, that this morbid excretion is a mode of eliminating effete matters which can no longer escape by the cutaneous outlets. LuYS.—Changes in the Fourth Ventricle in a case of Diabetes. Bullet, de la Soc. Anat., vol. v. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861. The anterior wall of the ventricle was found highly vascular, and in a state of gelatinous softening of a brownish-yellow colour. The situation of the lesion corresponds with that which is found by experimental inquiry to produce (when injured) saccharine urine. KoRNEB.—On Albuminuria in the course of Acute Diseases. Pra^-. Vierteljahrschr., Ixvii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p.'47. Kofner states that albuminuria under the conditions referred to is preceded by signs of failure of respiration and circulation. The inspi- ratory action is lessened, and the expiratory becomes loud and blowing. The