EriDEMIC A\D EMDEMIC DISEASES. 409. IitviNE, IIuNXEU, Cameron, EmvAUDS, Williams, Ogilvie.—Fever at Liverpool. Med. Times and Gnz., April 20th and 27tb, May 4tli, and June ist. On the 22nd of Febrnary an Egyptian war-steamer arrived at Liverpool from Alexandria. Out of a crew of 3j;o, eighty were on the sick-list, suf- fering mostly from diarrhoea and dysenter}^, of which last, six had died within a week after the vessel was in harbour. Thirty-two of the sufferers were removed (Feb. 2 5th—27th) to the Southern Hospital, who were in a state of extreme personal filth, and swarmed with vermin. Twelve of those admitted had diarrhoea or dysentery, of whom three died, but none had fever. On March 4th the senior house-surgeon was attacked by fever, next one of the nurses, and in the course of a few days some of the patients. Twenty- five persons, including five children under ten, were affected, of whom three died. Between Feb. 26th and March ist more than aoo of the crew were taken to the Paul Street Baths and Washhouses. On the 2nd of March a bath-man was attacked, and subsequently two other persons con- nected with the establishment. In each case the disease assumed the cha- racters of true typhus ; transitory diarrhoea occurred in three cases, none of which were fatal. Of the fatal cases recorded the durations were severally ten days, nine days, and twelve days. The "eruption of typhus" is said to have presented itself in all of them. Those of the crew who recovered, embarked on board another Egyptian frigate for Alexandria, having on board thirteen English, including the captain. Of these, four, including the captain, went on shore at Malta, suffering from fever. The captain died at the tenth day of his disease; on examination of his body the ileum and mesenteric glands were found to be healthy. In all those affected a "copious mulberry rash" appeared from the sixth to the eighth day, and there was muttering delirium, which in the fatal case ter- minated in coma. On the arrival of this ill-fated crew at Alexandria six others of the crew went on shore with fever, all of whom recovered. MiLROY.—On the influence of Contagion in the rise and spread of Ein- demic diseases. British Medical Journal, vol. i, p. 154. The Medical Officer of the Privy Colncil.—Epidemic of Typhoid Fever at Bedford. Third Report, 1861. Mr. Simon's report contains, among other matters, important inforraa- lion relating to origin of the epidemic of fever which took place in the town of Bedford in the winter of 1859-60. It appeared that typhoid fever had not only prevailed in Bedford during the year in question, but during the autumn months of each year for some time previously. As regards its local distribution, it was found that there had been no relation between the prevalence of fever and the existence of foul cesspools or drains ; but on the analysis of water taken from wells in the infected area, it appeared that they were "contaminated with animal matter." The supply of water for the town is derived from shallow wells, sunk into a permeable subsoil (gravel), which rests upon limestone rock. Cesspools are universal, and the drainage of the town is of such a nature that the whole of the liquid refuse sinks into the subsoil, which is so thoroughly saturated by it that it is impossible for the wells to escape pollution. BiiDD. —0/i Diphtheria. British Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 577. 31