DISEASES OF WOMEN. 381 DISEASES OF THE BUEAST. NuNN, T. W.—On Inflammation of the Breast and Milk Abscess, with an analysis of seventy-two cases. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Fifty-eight of the seventy-two cases occurred during lactation, seven during pregnancy, and seven in women neither pregnant nor lactating. Of the first series the larger proportion, j6 per cent., occurred during the first two months of lactation; during the next seven months only 14 per cent., but after the ninth month 29 per cent. ; thus there is evi- dently a special proneness to the disorder brought about by over-lactation. The latter point it is the author's object specially to substantiate. The hyper-lactation cases were cases marked by presence of physical and mental lethargy, drowsiness, constipation, dyspepsia, &c. The author found each breast equally liable, but that the lower lobes were twice sis often affected as the upper ones. As regards treatment, the author repro- bates continuous poultices, admitting their occasional beneficial effect where there is great pain present. The recumbent position is of first importance. Belladonna had not given encouraging results. As to incision, the moment for making it should be vigilantly watched for ; the opening should be only large enough to ensure sufficient evacuation of the abscess. Galvanism of low intensity he had found especially use/ul in the treatment of sinus and painful oedema. Abegg (Dantzic).—The Uterine Douche in the treatment of Galactor- rhcea. Mon. f. Geb., Dec, i860, p. 424. In two cases, after the uterine douche (warm) had been used for some days, menstruation occurred, and the secretion of milk ceased. Gairdneu, Dr. A. K.—Lecture on Lactatics. Am. Med. Times, Jan. 12th, 1861, p. 19. This is a systematic account of " galactics," or promoters of lactation, and " anti-galactics." Under the first head the author refers to liquid food, stimulants, fceniculum, ricinus, and jatropha curcas. Under the second head, belladonna, conium, iodide of potassium, salvia, camphor, and some other less active agents. Medicines are also referred to which act as " e.xpellers" of milk, and also those which act as " dispersers" of milk. Uee, Alex.—Irritable Tu7nour of the Breast; absorption under the use of bichloride of mercury. Lancet, March 30th, 1861, p. 316. Walton, IIaynes.—Cawcer of the Female Breast, with Ulceration; operation; long immunity from recurrence of the disease. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 14th, 1861, p. 632. MooKE, C. H.—Development of a Cyst in front of a Scirrhous Tumour of the Breast; removal, together with diseased axillary glands. Lancet, April 20th, 1861, p. 387.