UEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 3C When spealdng of the action of ansestlietics on the nervous system, Bernard says, that tlie sensorial faculty would seem to lose its intensity by degrees, in proceeding from the i)rimitive origin to the ultimate ter- mination of tlie special fibres with which it is connected; for in animals submitted to the inhalation of cldoroform, the spinal roots liaving pre- viously been exposed to view, sensibility disappears in the anterior roots before abandoning the outer surlace of the body, and dwells in the posterior roots long after it has ceased to exist in all other parts. The reverse takes place when tlie animal is allowed to revive, the posterior roots being the first, and the anterior roots the last, to recover the sensorial power. We are, therefore, entitled to believe that in the immediate vicinity of the posterior columns, a higher degree of sensi- bility exists than in more distant points. (Lect. ii, Jan. 12th.) In the Lecture (XVI) devoted to the consideration of the influence of the nervous system on the chemical composition of the blood, Bernard recapitulates his statement ^regarding the fact that the blood returning from a gland in a state of activity is arterial in hue, while it is of the usual venous colour when the gland is in a state of rest. He now adds, that the reverse is the law with regard to the muscles. The venous blood is black during the period of activity, and red Avhen the muscles are at rest. These phenomena, are, he thinks, satisfactorily accounted for by the opposite action of the two classes of vaso-motor nerves,—those which dilate, and those'which contract the vessels. By direct experiment on animals, Bernard has ascertained— ist. That when a muscle contracts, the venous blood contains less oxygen, and more carbonic acid, than in a state of rest. 2nd. That, on comparing arterial and venous blood, the quantity of carbonic acid which the latter contains is not found sufficient to account for the total amount of oxygen which has disappeared; it would there- fore appear that the transformation is not directly efiected, but that various intermediate compounds are produced. 3rd. That the solid residue Avhich remj^ins after evaporation is larger in blood drawn from a muscle in full activity than in the fl.uid obtained from a muscle at rest. It is hardly necessary to say that inverse results are obtained in operating on the glands ; we know, in fact, that their period of activity coincides with the ruddy colour and arterial state of the venous blood. The foUovdng table exhibits the results of this analysis: Gases contained in the Blood. Vcuous blood. Artcriiil liluort. Stale of rest. Stutc of iictivity. , „ . r Oxygeu .... 9-31 8-21 3-31 Keutiis feinons . • | (j^^^^ic acid . . o'oo 2-oi X^i bubmaxilLiry gland I Carbonic acid . . 0-98 2 94 ^'lo Solid Besidue of the Blood. Venous Mowl. Ai tcrial blood. State of rest. State of uctivitj , n • r Less by evaporation 73'86 76 84 75'24 Rectus femoris . • | Solid Eesidiie . .26-14 23-16 24-7<'' In Lecture XX, it is stated that the differences supposed to exist