REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 110 Leumann, L.— What injliience oti the JTiman Oir/tinism, and in partieular on Tissue-chanr/e, is exerted under different circtt/tnstances by Futir/uina Exercise { Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, 1860, p. 484. Canst., vol. "1, p. 147. Tliis and the following communication form replies to the question con- tiiined in the above title, which was put by the Society of Co-operation. The author's observations, which were made on himself (aged thirty- four), his brother (aged forty-two), a labourer (aged twenty), a lady (aged thirty-two), and a boy (aged ten), led to the following results:—(i) Ex- hausting exercise frequently, but not always, causes a loss in weight; (2) gaseous excretion is considerably augmented, though not in every case; (3) the effect of exertion in increasing the quantity of urea has hitherto been exaggerated; in some instances it is trifling or null; (4) the uric acid undergoes no regular increase or decrease ; (5) the chloride of sodium of the urine decreases, but veiy irregularly ; (6) the sulphuric acid, and frequently the phosphoric acid, increases; (7) the acidity of the urine remains in statu quo, whilst its specific gravity rises in some cases; (8) the mean daily frequency of the pulse, and commonl3'- that of the respi- ration, is raised by exercise ; (9) the mean temperature rises, but only in some cases; (10) thirst is more increased than hunger, which, indeed, is sometimes diminished. Speck, C. (of Sfcrassebersbach).—On the influence of Fatiguing Exercise on Tissue-change. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, p. 39. Canst., vol. i, pp. 148, 220. The observations upon wliicb the author's conclusions regarding the influence of exertion on textural waste depend were made on a healthy, intelligent, and reliable rustic, aged twenty-eight, who was submitted during different periods to diffei-ent conditions of nourishment, activity, &c., as follows:—(i) October iith to 20th, full diet, with systematic laborious exertion ; (2) November ist to loth, same diet, with the utmost continued repose; (3) January 17th to 21st, sparing]^' nitrogenized aliment, with labour; (4) January 31st to February 3rd, same diet, with uninterrupted I'est. Since perspiration always attends effort, its isolated influence was as nearly as possible determined by requiring the man to undergo (5) from November 29th to December 3rd (a period of inactivity) several hours' sweating dail}'. The ingesta and egesta, the weight, pulse, respiration, and temperature, were accurately noted, and the urine exactly analysed. I. A comparison of the first and second series shows that (i) with a diet which in conditions of repose causes an obvious rise in the weiglit of the body, exertion produces an equally perceptible l;ill; (2) the sum of the excretions is augm.ented during, but most of all immediately after, labour; (3) in a period of inactivity that sum is greater by night than by day, and the urine increases in amount at the expense of the perspiration —•conditions the reverse of those observed during the active period; (4) in a state of continued rest textural consumption is far more lavish than during the more profound repose that ensues upon toil. II. From the third and fourth series it appears that (i) when the diet is poor, exertion causes a comparatively greater loss of weight than when