SUDDEN AKD VIOLENT DEATHS. 447 process for the preparation of blood-crystals ; it does not differ materially from those of Simon and Biichner (see ' Year Book ' for i860). WxRTHGEN.—On the various methods of discriminating Blood-stains in medico-Jegal cases. Henke, part i, p. a, 1861. Wirthgen's paper is divided into two parts, of which one is an histori- cal summary of the medico-legal investigations relating to blood-stains, from the time of the first recognition of forensic medicine as a science of itself, in the first quarter of the century, to the present time. In the second part the author describes the methods for the discrimination of blood-stains employed by Orfila, Lassaigne, Mende, Letheby, Persot, Mngonty, Buchner, Schmidt, Piria Ferrari, Schneider, Bunzen and Sicbold, Casper, Schacht, Lesueur and Robin, Lecanu, Morin, Hopff, Verghauss, Wiehr, Lowe, Otto, Rose, Briicke, Boutigny, Desbri^re, Friedberg, Virchow, Kunde, Teichmann, Barruel, Bertazzi,"Ca«anti, and Bitter. OwsJANNiKOTV.—On Teichmann's Hcemin-crystals. Mediz. Ztg. Russ- lands, vol. xvii, part i. Canst., vol. vii, p. 9. Professor Owsjannikow's method agrees in the main with that of Scriba (see 'Year Book' for i860). MiQUEL.—On the detection of Blood-stains. Deut. Klin., i860, Nos. 9 and 19. GuiBOURT.—Observations relating to Blood-stains. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xl, p. 261. SUDDEN AND VIOLENT DEATHS. Mkm.—Draft of a form for reports of Medico-legal Autopsies. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xvi, parts i, 2. Plagge.—Js the cessation of the Heart-heat a certain sign of Death ? Betz's Memorabilia, vol. v. No. 5. Asphyxia. LiMAN.—On the forensic signification of the so-called Punctiform Ecchy- moscs under the Pleura and serous investments of other oraans Casper, vol. xix, p. 73. if • The appearances referred to consist for the most part of minute extra- vasations of coagulated blood, varying in size from that of a pin's head to that of a hemp seed. On stripping off the serous membrane thev remain attached thereto, and cannot be removed by washing By Tardieii they are considered as thanatognostical signs of death by asphvxia whereas other authors attach little importance to them. In illustration of their medico-legal significance, tlie author relates numerous observa tions, from which it appears that, although the ecchymoses in question are found almost exclusively in death by suffocation, they do not aCd evidence of the modp in wVi nli t 1,0c i ^. A r „„ 'luuiu evidence of the mode in ^hioh it has^ br^Tod'ncS Tir.aSor attributes the appearances m question, especially when thev occur in adults, to the forcible efforts to breathe wi!h whik death l!^;iuffocitio ,s necessarily accompanied, and to the interruptions to the circulation anS