UEPOUT Oy THE UTSTITUinS OF MEDICINE. sc (i) Carbonate of eodn introduced into the circulation prevents the pro- duclion of saccharine urine after lesions of tlie sympathetic. (2) It dees not prevent the urine becoming saccharine after the destruction of life when the circulation is kept up artificially; but when injected into the portal system, so that all may pass by the liver, it keeps the urine free from sugar. (3) Carbonate of soda injected into the portal system during life causes glucogen to disappear from the liver without pro- ducing sugar. (4) The action of the carbonate of soda is probably of the nature of catalysis. (5) Carbonate of soda injected into the liver after d.'ath holds the Baccbarine metamorphosis in check. V. Eeieulandeh and BA.uiscn.—Ilhcstraiio7is of the Secretion of the Bile. Arcbiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 646. Canst., vol. i, p. 138. These observations, wbich were confrolled by Heidenhain, were made on guinea-pigs by the assistance of a canula introduced into the gall- bladder, the excretory duct of which was ligatured, (i) The bile is of an amber colour, becoming greenish after long abstinence, and turn- ing green by exposure to the air. (2) It is always alkaline, and does not betray the presence of the usual acids. (3) The pressure in the gall- bladder is expressed by about 200 mm. on the water-manometer. (4) Water injected into the gall-bladder is absorbed with some activity, if the fall in a column of the fluid connected with that reservoir be a safe test. Neukomm, J.—On tlie Demonstration of the Siliary Acids, and ihei/r transformation in the Circulation. Arcbiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i86o, p. 364, Canst., vol. i, p. 146. In order to test the trutb of Kiihne's statement (' Year Book,' vol. i, p. 260), that the biliary acids pass into the urine, the author examined two specimens of that secreted hy icteric patients, and found that they con- tained mere traces of those acids. The same result was obtained with the urine of dogs, after the injection of fifteen to thirty grains of glyco- cbolate of soda into the circulation. The opposite assertion of Kiihne is probably due to the circumstance that he did,not extract the residue of the urine with spirit, and therefore obtained, in addition to the reaction of the acids, that of colouring and extractive matters whicb give a red or violet colour on the addition of sulphuric acid. The biliary acids introduced into the blood are probably converted, under favorable conditions, into bile-pigment, which passes into the urine. Possibly a trace of the acids reacbes the saliva, for, after their injection, dogshaveagreaterflow of saliva, and seem to experiencea disagreeable taste. Thudicum, Dr.—On the Putrefaction of Bile and the Formation of Gall- stones. Chem. Journ., July, p. 114. Lancet, March 9th, p. 243. The author had observed casts of biliary ducts occupying the very centres of gall-stones, from whicb he inferred that the morbid process by whicb these gall-stones bad been formed was not confined to the gall- bladder. Tiiese casts were constituted of the brown modification of cholochrome termed cholophteine. According to the author, the essen- tial constituents of gall-stones are cholochrome, cholic and choloidic acids, and earthy salts, being the products which are precipitated during the putrefaction of bile out of the body; Avheuce he inferred that gall-