187 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. serous or plastic exudations or bloody effusions. Embolia is most com- mon in the splenic artery, usually in one of its divisions, the original em- bolon, which is overlaid'by fresh deposits, being furnished by vegetations from the cardiac valves, endocardial exudations, bony particles, and the like. The partial infarctum has usually the form of a cone, with the base turned to the surface of the spleen ; it mostly soon becomes pale yellow, and by a pro- cess of fatty metamorphosis and molecular decay partly undergoes absorp- tion, while anotiier part changes into contracting cicatrix-tissue or bony substance, and forms a depression in the atrophied organ. In many cases of pviemic endocarditis Oppolzer has observed a sanio-purulent breaking up of the splenic infarctum, with perforation of the capsule and fatal peritonitis. The diagnosis is difficult, and only can be rested on the con- currence of splenic enlargement and sudden pain in the region of the spleen with the physical signs of disease of the heart or vessels. Renal embolia is nearly as common as splenic, and occurs under the same cir- cumstances. The diagnosis is rendered easier by the constant existence of albuminuria, and often of hrematuria, except in the case where a whole renal artery is obstructed. Figment embolia, which is observed in per- nicious intermittent fevers, even in our climate, deserves special mention. The formation of pigment sometimes goes on very rapidly, so that after some violent febrile paroxysms, with delirium, convulsions, and even ma- niacal phenomena, death takes place with stertor and coma, by miliary apoplexy. Sometimes the cerebral symptoms do not occur until the fever has lasted a long time. Sometimes the whole process is chronic, with or without notable functional disorder. According to the results of autopsies the pigment in most cases is formed in the spleen, whence it is carried to the liver, where the larger flakes are detained, while the smaller penetrate through the pulmonary capillaries and pass in the arterial stream to all parts of the body. In the brain, however, such large pigment-flakes are often found that they could not have passed through the hepatic and pulmonary capillaries, but must have originated in the blood itself. The deposit of pigment in the cutaneous capillaries imparts an earthy tint to the surface. It is less rare in the brain than in the spinal cord, where it may occasion either temporary paraplegia, or, if attended with extensive effusions of blood and atrophy, permanent contractions and palsies. Pigmentary accumulation in the liver induces at first enlargement from reactive or passive hypersemia and exudation ; subsequently atrophy ensues from contraction of new-formed connective tissue or from fatty degene- ration of the cells. In the renal vessels the pigment may remain a long time without deranging the urinary secretion or causing injury to other organs, but in some cases it induces acute morbus Brightii. Microscopi- cal cxiimination of the urine often discovers casts containing pigment. Embolia of the arteries of tbe lower limb is not uncommon. The symp- toms are immediate paralysis, gradual loss of heat, formication, and, soon after, violent pains, with increasing loss of sensibility in the skin. The limb becomes continually colder, blue, gangrenous, and dry, as in the senile form, only much more quickly, up as fur as the part where a col- lateral circulation has in the mean time become developed. In ca.se of a thrombus having, however, aUo formed in the crural vein, the gani>rene may be moist. The diagnosis essentially rests on losa of pulse in one limb, with