445 jrAOTALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Klein.—TFAfl^ view ought to be taken as to the corjioral punishment of children ^ Under what circumstances, and in xohat manner ought such punishment to be administered ? When does it degenerate into ill usage? and what consequences are to be apprehended? Henke, part 3, p. 122, 1861. , , . ^ 1 The author is one of those who ■welcome the laying aside ot corporal punishment as an expression of the increased appreciation of the dignity of human nature which arises from the recent moral advancement of society. He strongly enforces on the legislature, that schoolmasters should be limited to striking on the palm of the hand, or that no other corporal punisliment should be inflicted until some time after the commission of the offence. Helavig.—Fraetura Ossis Hyoidei et Cartilaginis Thyroidea. Question tvhether death result from a fall or from strangulation. Casper, vol. xix, p. 34a. Drs. Helwig and Wagner were called upon by the police authorities to examine and report on the body of a woman, eet. 66, who was found dead in her bed under the following circumstances. It appeared that the deceased, who resided with one servant in an isolated mill, had fallen down stairs twenty-four hours before her death, but suffered little incon- venience from the fall, and was able, on the following day, to pursue her ordinary duties. Three hours after retiring for tlie night she was found dead in her bed. The autopsy revealed the following lesions:—On the right side of the neck, below and behind the angle of the lower jaw, two dry, parchment-like excoriations, of an oval form, were observed. On the left side, somewhat further back, there were two similar marks, and at the corners of the mouth, on the ridge of the nose, were excoriations of the same character. The hyoid bone, and left half of the thyroid cartilage, and the fifth and sixth ribs on the left side, were found to be fractured. There were contusions of the left side of the face and tlie inner side of the right thigh, all of which exhibited indications of having been^inflicted some time before death. The author concludes, from his investigation, that the fractures could only have been pi'oduced by the direct application of violence to the hyoid bone and larynx, and that even in the absence of corroborative evidence, he was justified in unhesitatingly expressing the opinion that murder by stranghng had been committed. That the fractures and other laryngeal injuries could not have been produced by the fall down stairs, was evident, not only from their general nature, but from the facts that no symptoms of any severe injury had occurred during life, and that after death there was neither oedema, emphysema, nor purulent infiltration of tlie neighbouring parts. The conclusion was therefore justified that the deceased was suffocated by forcible pressure of one hand on the larynx and the other on the mouth. RosER.—On the medico-legal discrimination of cases of Pyeemia. Arch, d. Heiik., part 4, i860. Roser compares pyremia as a consequence of injury with tetanus and rabies, and points out the absence of any causal relation between the disease and the injury by which it is preceded. He regards its origin as rather miasmatic or zymotic than traumatic.