BEPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. •1.14 Inrge quantities of basic acetate of lead were discovered after death, various shades of grey or slate colour were observed in the oesophagus, stomach, and intestines, the discoloration being most intense in tlie colon. In all the discoloured parts evidence was obtained of the presence of a compound of basic acetate of lead with organic matter. FouauET.—Case of Poisoning by Acetate of Lead. Wien. Wchnschr., No. II, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 24. A healthy man, set. 63, took an ounce of solution of acetate of lead by mistake for lycopodium, ordered for spasmodic dysury. He suffered in consequence from diarrhoea, with paroxsyms of colic. The evacuations were watery, and contained much mucus. He became coni valescent in a few days, under appropriate treatment. Poisoning ly a Lead Plate used for the purpose of dyeing the Hair. Bull, de Th6r., vol. Ixi, p. 280. Poisoning by Acetate of Lead. Pharmac, vol. iii, p. 199, Duchesne.—On Lead Colic in workmen engaged in enamelling Iron. Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xvi, p. 298. The process of enamelling iron, for the purpose of protecting it from oxidation {controxidation), is carried on to a large extent near Paris in the manufacture of the supports for telegraph wires. These are prepared by covering the surface of the iron with a thin layer of a fusible enamel, containing 24 per cent, of oxide of lead. The process consists in pulverizing and sifting the enamel, and in dusting the powder on the articles to be enamelled, which are then exposed to a heat sufficient to fuse the coating. The author describes various methods actually em- ployed in one or two of the factories, by which the workman is enabled to escape entirely the inhalation of the poisonous dust. Among other appliances he gives drawings and descriptions of masks or respirators, which, from their cheapness, lightness, and effi6iency, appear admirably adapted for all occupations in which the health is liable to injury from similar causes. As regards the effects of the occupation, his account agrees with of M. Archambault. More than fifty cases of lead colio arising from this cause are now on record. Archambault, Potain.—On Lead Poisoning by the Poioder of Glass among the worhnen engaged in the Controxidation of Iron. L'Union, vol. xi, p. 151. The workmen who are employed in this process are constantly exposed to an atmosphere impregnated with flint-glass (silicate of potash and lead) in a state of impalpable powder, in such quantity that water through which it is passed becomes in a very short time covered with a white film. Of twenty-one persons employed in this process in a factory at Bercy, nineteen suffered within six months more or less severely from lead poisoning, and three died. The afiection commenced with slight exaggeration of the appetite, which was succeeded by salivation. The subsequent symptoms were those observed in cases of lead poisoning, but the phenomena of colic were less marked. M. Archambault, finding that glass-dust, even in a pulverulent state, is only soluble in liquids having an