DIGESTIVE SYSTEjr. by extension from til e tongue and neighbouring parts; (ii) hyoid neu- ralgia; (12) fractures of the bone; (13) laceration of structures attached to it; (14) wounds of the hyoid bone. 1 A^orx.—Jdmiiiistratioii of 01. Morrh. andiron. Pragev Vierteljahrschr., 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. 12th. The iron is combined with the oleic acid of the oil, precipitated car- bonate of iron being first mixed with four times its weight of oleic acid, gently boiled, and then mixed with cod oil. Marten.—On ihe Operative Treatment of Peritonitis. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., Aug., 1861, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, parts 5 and 6. Marten advocates the removal of abdominal inflammatory effusions of puriform character by valvular incision with the knife when resorption does not occur and the general symptoms are urgent. Olivier.—Paracentesis of the Stomach for Acute Tympanitis ; recovery. Gazz. Lomb., 29, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 308. Olivier states that he operated on twenty patients, of whom eight recovered completely in three weeks. The others died probably from not having been submitted to treatment till too late. The symptoms are those of extreme distension of the stomach, producing death by suffo- cation. The cause of the disease appears to be overloading the stomach Mith half-cooked vegetable food, and drinking badly fermented liquid, called chicha, prepared from maize. Paracentesis gives exit to a great quantity of most offensive gas (US) and fermenting chyme. The cases occurred in Bohvia, South America. Chapuis.—Dry Colic in French Guyana. Gaz. Hebd., vii, 36, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 309. Of thirty-one cases, met with in a quarter of a year, only six were in- stances of lead colic, twenty-five of dry. Vinous enemata, as hot as can be borne, are the best treatment in both classes. Aran.—0« the Grape Cure. Bull, de Ther., lix, Oct., i860. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. iii, p. 164. Aran does not admit that the grape and whey cures are to be compared with each other. He thinks the former chiefly useful as giving rest to the alimentary canal. Clarus (the reporter) differs from him, noticing the troublesome aphtha; and excoriations in the mouth and anus it produces, the derangement of appetite and diarrhoea, and the possible impaction of grape-stones in the processus vermiformis. PoLAKSKY.— On Balneotherapy in Chronic Gastric Catarrh, Zeitschr. d. Wiener Aerztc, No. 18, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 241. Polansky regards the gastric disorder as an expression of the dyscrasic character of tuberculosi.o, and its cessation, consequently, as a favorable sign. He seems to trust more to chfingc of climate and mode of life tlian to mineral waters. 15