REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 218 more distinctly recognised forms of secondary venereal disorder; (3) the renal affection, like the associated secondary symptoms, is amenahle to the influence of antisyphilitic treatment, and if the morbid process has not advanced too far, would appear to be susceptible of complete cure. Hamon, L.—On the Nervous Nature of Albuminuria. Gaz. de Paris, 7—23, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 29. Hamon finds—(i) that activity of the voluntary mucles causes an increase of the albumen in the urine, proportional to the degree of exertion. (2) Digestion also increases the amount of the albumen in proportion to the indigestibility of the food. (3) Purgatives increase the albumen according as they excite the intestinal peristalsis. (4) Diuretics do not aggravate, rather diminish, albuminuria. (5) Emetics cause mostly an increase, sometimes a diminution of the excretion of albumen. (6) Attacks of dyspnoea aggravate the renal disorder. The author's general conclusions are the following:—Albuminuria is not a primary renal disease, for there is albuminuria without pre-existing renal disease,and albumen often disappears from the urine while the renal disease persists. Albuminuria is a sign of a cerebro-spinal affection, and can be produced by directly acting on the nervous system, or by diseases of the same. Albumen is made up of two factors, the pathognomonic flux and the general derangements of nutrition and nervous energy. Hamon proposes the name of " nevrose albuminu- rbeique " for the disease. BiERMEB.—An unusual Case of Scarlatina. Arch. f. path. Anat., 5 and 6. Canstatt's Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 259. Biermer's case, that of a boy set. e,^, ended fatally on the 35th day with ursemic symptoms and convulsions. No urine was passed from the 21st day of the disease to the 26th, and extremely little for five days more. Yet during these ten days there were no ursemic symptoms nor any notable dropsy. The former first appeared, after the urinary secretion was restored, which was but slightly albuminous. Mi)LLER, H.—Case of Choroidal Affection in Morbus Brightii. Verhandl. d. Wiirzb. Med. Phys. Gesellsch., vol. x. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 259. Miiller found the epithelium of the arteries increased in quantity and fattily degenerated. The mass thus formed and mixed with pigment blocked up the canal in some parts, producing the " peripheral embolia." The retinal fibres were hypertrophied. Jaccoud, Sig.—On the Pathological Conditions of Albuminuria. Thesis, Paris, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. iii, p. 359. Jaccoud gives a critical history of morbus Brightii, and states his view that the primary malady is a derangement of nutrition, in consequence of which albuminous matters are not duly assimilated. The renal alteration is secondary. Williams, 1.—Recovery from Bright's Disease. Lancet, Nov. 23rd. Williams records six cases of dropsy, attended with bloody and albumi- nous urine, all of which recovered. He advocates an antiphlogistic treat-