IlEPOET ON MIDAVIFEllY, ETC. 31.6 the pubis and coccyx, of the pcvinccum, in different subjects, accounts for the inceration taking place in one case and not in another. IIervteux.—Neiu method of Treatment of Laceration of the Perinceum. L'Un., April, 1861, p. 258. The author's metliod is to retain, in apposition with the raw surface, sponge saturated with chlorurettecl water. Two cases of cure by this means are related. Skinner, Dr.—Case of Ruptured Perinceum duriny unassisted Labour. Brit. Med. Journ., August 17th, i86t, p. 170. The author advocates the use of the twisted or quilled suture when the accident has occurred, not trusting to unaided restorative power. Robinson, Dr.—Laceration of the Perinceum into the Rectum, Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th, 1861, p. 336. In the passage of a large child the perinseum was torn into the rectum. A perfect cure was obtained by maintaining perfect apposition of the parts by rest, binding of the knees together, and use of opiates to produce con- stipation, for seventeen days. The parts had then perfectly healed. The vagina was washed out daily. Edwards, Dr. Chas.—Contributioiis to the Science of Obstetric Surgerij. Lancet, Dec. 14th and 21st, 1861, pp. 566 and 592. These contributions consist of practical remarks on the treatment of laceration of the perinseum as an effect of labour. ESCAPE OF LIQUOR AMXII DURING PREGNANCY. Danyau.—On Serous Bischarges during Pregnancy. Gaz. Hebd., Dec 2ist, 1860. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861. A patient had had serous discharge for fifty-six days. After delivery, it was found to liave proceeded from a perforation in the membranes, which had allowed the escape of amnionic fluid.' OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. INDUCTION OP PREMATURE LABOUR. EsTEULE, Prof. Carlo.—On the propriety of extracting the Foetus hy way of the genital passages, and ivhen viable, before death, in cases ivhere the death of the Mother is imminent and certain. Ann. Univ. di Med., Nov., 1861. In the contingency in question the author argues that extraction before death is far preferable to the Cscsavean section after death, and he adduces six cases, in four of which the children were thus saved, whereas in post- mortem Csesarean operations only 2 per cent, are saved. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—On the indications and operations for the Induc- tion of Premature Labour and for the Acceleration of Labour. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Tiie author gives a.systematic, historical account of the various operative methods which have been had recourse to. These are, puncture of the