BEPOUT ON SURGEKY. 206 and displaced towards the navel. The tumour was now found to extend still higher, and the fingers lastly arrived at the edge of the liver, the interlobular fissure, and the gall-bladder, in which last the diminishiug end of the tumour lost itself The base of the gall-bladder was now stitched to the bottom of the wound and punctured. The abundant contents were broth-like in appearance, and contained fat and choles- terine. The woman recovered. TiijSGEL, Dr. C.—Two cases of I^nterotomi/. Archly fiir Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. ,33 ^, Berlin, i86i. Two cases of internal intestinal obstruction, in which the descendiug colon was opened. The first, complicated with fistulous communication between the gut and the bladder, died. In the second case the bowel again became pervious, faeces were passed per anum, and the artificial opening closed; the patient recovered. Lawsox, G.—Abdominal section for the relief of Intestijial obstruction ; fatal result. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th, p. 675. The obstruction was caused by scirrhus of the ileo-csecal valve. Death occurred nine hours after the operation. Bauer, L.—Case of Artificial Anus at the left Flexura C'oli; repeated operations; final closure of the aperture. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Bep., June 15th, ■\). 246. The artificial opening followed exfoliation of a portion of the eighth rib, consequent on a blow. Fajces were passed naturally per anum, once a week, but most escaped through the flank. The operation con- sisted in freshening the edges and closing the skin over the hole. Pagensteciiee, Dr.—Enterotomy for the formation of an Artificial Amis in the left groin, for sarcomatous obstruction of tlie rectum. Lan- genbeck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 3, p. 321. Hernia. Hatden, Th.—On the Structure and Patliology of the Hernial Sac. Dublin Quart. J., No. Ixiii, Aug. ist, p. 53. CoLLis, M. H.—Contributions to the Smyeri/ of Hernia. Dublin Quart. J., p. 287. Strangulated Hernia. Hutchinson.—Report on twenty-five cases of operations for Strangu^ lated Hernia. Med. Times and Gaz., April 13th, p. 386. CoOPEB and Holmes.—Statistics of operations for Strangulated Hernia at St. George's Hospital during seven years. Med. Times and Gaz., May 15th, p. 624. Steettbel, Dr. C—On Hernice and their Treatment. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no. No. 6, p. 337. A retrospect containing—(1) observations on the disquahhcntion lor military service caused by hernia; (2) an abstract of radical cures by Ogier, "J. Wood, Spencer Wells, and Eiggs; (3) a report of cases of