44 llEl'OUT ON TUK INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. I Bible to the strongest shocks, until the temperature is reduced. At this stage tlie cohesion of the nerve is suddenly diminished. MuNK, II.—liescm-clics on llie. Conduction, of Excihtliuii in Nrrvrs. Arcliiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 798. Canst., vol. i, p. 186. These observations led to tlie results that—(i) The maximum of excitation of a nerve rises rapidly and considerably just after its separa- tion from the organism ; and that—(2) The proi)agation of excitement differs in rate in the cour.se of the nerve, the time occupied in its trans- mission through a given length of iierve, being more tiian double tliat spent in its passage throngU half that length. The author believes that liere, with an essential limitation, the law operates that all parts of the nerve conduct with the same speed when they are at an equal distance from the spot immediately excited, but that the rate decreases with the length of the conducting portion. SciTELSKE.—On llifi Qlianges effected in the Irritahility of Nerves h/ Warmth. TIeidelb., i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 18. Tiio author states that Avhen the movements of the frog's heart are suspended by heat or by cold, electric irritation, either direct or throiu/ii the vnffus nerve, causes a spasmodic twitching movement in the organ; but that when the heart returns to its original temperature, the vagus resumes its inhibitive character. Htrtl.—Paccinian Bodies on the Infra-orhitrtl Neri'e. Oe.st. Ztsch. 181JQ, No. 47. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. In three instances this anatomist found Paccinian corpuscles on the infra-orbital nerve. He conjectures that they may have been caused by capsular investment of the central end of a torn nerve fibre, (just as they frequently occur on the digital nerves of hands exposed to rough usage,) or, that injury of the nerve in its canal may have caused the periphery to be affected. Beondgast, p. T.—Researches on the Tone of tlie Vohmtary Muscles. Archiv f. Anat. u. Phys., i860, p. 703. Canst., vol. i, p. 187. Brondgiist instituted experiments on muscular tone (in rabbits and frogs) by dividing the cord near the medulla oblongata, and the sciatic nerve of one side. The animals being next suspended, in order that the ensuing movements might be unimpeded, it Avas observed in half an hour, that the lower limb on the injured side dangled loosely -whilst the other was moderately bent in all its joints. If the toes of the sound side were then pinched, the flexion of the limb was increased. But if the cord near the medulla and the roofs of one of the sciatic nerves were divided, though the limbs assumed the same attitude as just described, it was found on pinching the toes of the sound side, that both the extremities were drawn up. The author's inference is, that there exists a muscular tone dependent on the constant influence of the central nervous system, but that it is a reflex tone, since it ceases after section of the postei-ior roots of the nerves.