199 RESPIUATOUY SYSTEM. Becker (of Dorum).—Remarks on the Nature and Treatinent of Croup. Deutsche Klinik, No. 24, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 195. Becker states that, in a district near the mouth of the Weser, on the coast of the North Sea, there died within twenty-five years 21a children, out of a population of 8000, with symptoms of croup. The whole number of patients with cervical affections during the same time amounted to 848, the chief forms of disease being—(i) acute catarrh; (2) inflammation of the trachea and larynx; (3) diphtheritic ulceration of the throat, larynx, and trachea. The first is the commonest, and prevails in the spring. The second prevails at all seasons when there is a cold, keen wind. The third attacks children from two to six years old, in misty, damp, cold weather. It is infectious and very dangerous, and requires caustics. Whittle, E.—On Croup. Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sc., Feb. Whittle divides croup-like affections into seven varieties—(i) Cynanche trachealis of CuUen, true croup, with formation of false membrane. (2) Angina stridula of Bretonneau, pseudo-croup of Guersant, acute asthma of Millar; it is characterised by intense inflammation of the lining membrane of the larynx and trachea, but without formation of false membrane. (3) Croup, complicating diphtheria- (4) Sympathetic croup, occurring in the exanthemata, disappearing when the eruption comes out. (5) Croup caused by an ulcerated condition of the larynx, either syphilitic or following the ulcerated throat of scarlatina or variola. (6) Mechanical croup, depending on a puckered condition of the glottis from oedema, &c. (7) Nervous croup, laryngismus stridulus. In the treatment of the first two forms. Whittle advises a warm bath and emetic, followed by nitre and Dover's powder, and not to delay tracheotomy if the symptoms do not yield. In the other forms, except (4) and (7), tracheotomy, or topical applications are mostly requii'ed. KiDD, G. H.—On the Pathology of Asthma, Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci., May, 1861. Kidd dwells on the following points, which he thinks he has proved :— ist. That during the paroxysm of asthma, the chest is distended to the greatest possible extent. 2nd. That all the muscles of inspiration are in spasmodic action (tonic spasm). 3rd. That the bronchial muscles are muscles of inspiration, and associated in the spasmodic action with the other muscles of inspiration. 4th. That breathing is carried on by bringing a voluntary effort to aid the muscles of expiration, and that as soon as this is relaxed, the muscles of inspiration, like so many stretched bands of India rubber, distend the chest again. The spasm he traces to some morbid action in the medulla oblongata. DucLOs.—iVa^wre and Treatment of Asthma. Bull. Gen. de Therap,, April 15th. Brit. Med. Journ., May iith. Duclos regards asthma as the manifestation in the air-tubes of an her- petic 'diathesis, the varieties of asthma corresponding with various forms of skin disease. He gives as remedies sulphur or arsenic.