280 REPORT OX SLltGKJlY. Bti-ongly lultlucting it, carrying it over tlie souud oue, aud at the same time upward over the pelvis by a seuiicircular sweep as higli as tlie umbilicus ; tlien abduct the kuee gently, turn the toe outward, the heel inward, and the foot across tlie o])posite and sound limb, making gentle oscillations of the thigh, when tlie head of the bone will slip into * its socket witli a slight jerk and an audible snap, and the whole limb will slide easily down into its natural position beside tlie other." A critical examination of Eeid's method as compared with Smith's. ■Waoensellee, B. Dislocation of tlic Femur reduced hj Beid's metliod. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Kep., March 2nd, p. 585. Hewson.—Beduction of the Femur hj Manipulation {Beid's method). Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., May 4th, p. 113. Baetmer, Dr.—On Luxations of tlie Hip-joint, and their reduction. Arcliiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. ii, parts i and 2, p. 183. SniES, S.—Dislocation of the Femur reduced without having recourse to Forcible Fxtension, Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Marcb 4th, p. 74. The patient having been put thoroughly under chloroform, the leg was flexed on the thigb and this on the belly, the limb being at the same time adducted. It was then quickly abducted, firm pressure being made over the great trochanter. Tabee, a. — Tlvo cases of Luxatio Femoris from Guersanfs Clinic. Gaz. des Hop., 151, i860. Schmidt's Jahi-b., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Leteniietje.—Case of Suh-cofi/loid Luxation forward. Gaz. des Hop., 84, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 5, p. 197. Sedillot.—Dislocation of the head of tlie Thigh Bone into the Foramen Ovale, tvith j^reservation of the usefulness of the limb. Gaz. des Hop., 24. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, No. 6, p. 319. An account of five cases of this luxation. Fractures and Dislocations of the Knee-joint. HOLTnousE.—Dislocation of the Patella upward. Lancet, July 6th. The ligamentum patella? had been ruptured by a fall; " the lower margin of the patella was faii'ly above the articular surface of the con- dyles of the femur." AVaklet, I. H.—Fracture of the Patella in a Pregnant Woman; union hy the sixth week, miscarriage in the eighth iveelc; and death from Typhoid Fever. Lancet, May i8th, 1861. Packaed, J. H.—Case of Fracture of the Patella treated succrssfullg by means of Malgaigne's Hooks. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, p. 395. Paxcoast.—Th ree cases of Fracture of the Patella. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Hep., March 23rd, p. 683. Pancoast at first uses leeches and astringent lotions, and when the efi"usion into the joint subsides approximates the fragments with straps of plaster. The limb is elevated.