281 JOINTS. GnsEXniLL. Partial Dialocalion of tie Femur inicarcl at the Knee- -joint; reduction. Med. Times and Gfiz., July i6tli, p. 173. Ltman, H. M.—Dislocation of the head of (he Tibia inwards. Amer. Med. Times, July 20th, p. ,39. A labourer was buried by the accidental fall of a bank of earth. When extricated, a deformity of his left knee was discovered. J' The outer condyle of the femur projected under the skin at the outside of the joint, and the inner condyle could be felt as it rested upon the extreme outer portion of the articular surface of the head of the tibia," directly over the tibio-fibular joint. Eeduction was easily effected by adducting the leg so as to relax the quabiceps extensor and making pressure on the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Eecovery, withoiit anchylosis. Dislocations of the Tarsal and Metatarsal Joints. GiBBES, E. "W.— Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-joint; complete recovery after reduction, without anchylosis. Charleston Med. Journ., Nov., i860. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., p. 298. L.\jrE.—SimjyJe complete Dislocation of the Astrayalus forward and out- ward reduction; recovery. Lancet, Dec. 7th, p. 546. CnASS.viGNAC.—Case of Luxation of tlie Astrayalus, in lohich removal of this hone urns necessary. Gaz. des II6p., 60, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. I, p. 63. Pkllarix, Dr.—A case of Luxation of tJie first Metatarsal Bone iipivard. L'Union, 63, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 62. A child, set. 6, fell from the first story of a house into a paved court. At the middle of the inner side of the foot a considerable depression was felt, in which the thumb could be put, and there was a corre- sponding projection on the instep. The metatarsal bone of the great toe projected beneath the skin, and the toe was rotated slightly outward ; the articular surfaces of this metatarsal bone and of the first cuiieiform bone could be felt. The replacement was easily effected. BELiif, Dr. Ed.—Case of complete Luxation of the second Metatarsal Bone tqnvards and lachvards. Gaz. de Strasb., 6, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 63. A cuirassier was tripped up by his sword. He felt his left foot bend outward, and found himself unable to stand on it. On exami- nation shortly afterwards, an outward and backward luxation of the second metatarsal bone was found. The whole metatarsal bone was rominent, and its triangular articular surface projected considerably eyond the margin of the second cuneiform bone. The replacement was difficult'; after two failures, the head of the bone was pushed into its place by a screw tourniquet. Cold dressings were used for a few days, and then a plaster bandage was applied. The patient was well in three weeks.