GENITO-UUINAllY ORGANS. 311 The stiimp is said not to have bled, yet a few vessels were tied as a precaution against future hasniorrhage. Scrotim. KiHBALL, Of—Large, fatty Tumour removed from the Scrotum. Boston Med. and Surg. Jom-n,, Oct. i7tb, p. 222. It was composed of several lobules of pure fat, and weighed two pounds. Feegtjsson.—Me^hantiasis of the Scrotum, of the size of an adult's head, and weighing six poimds ; successful removal. Lancet, Sept. 28th, p. 294. Testis. Va^t Bueex, Prof W. H.—Concealed Testis removed from the Inguinal Canal. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 178. The right testis lay in the lower part of the inguinal canal, and could be pushed down through the external ring; it was aboiit one third of the size of the left testis, and the seat of paroxysmal neuralgic pain rendering the patient, ajt. 20, miserable. Van Buren removed it; the tunica vaginalis was closed at the internal ring, and did not extend into the scrotum. Zeis, Dr. Ed.—Hemarks on Abnormal Descent of the Testicle. Langen- beck's Archiv f. Klin. Chir., vol. ii, part i, p. 81. This paper contains the description of a case of descent of the testis into the perinseum, and is illustrated by a plate. JoEDAJf, F.—A case of Ttibercular Orchitis, with indications of Seredi- tarij Syphilis; castration; recovery; comments. Med. Times and Gaz., June 22nd, p. 646. Lee, H.—Varicocele. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7th, p. 602. Lee recommends subcutaneous division of the veins with a narrow knife at a point above and below which they have been secured with a needle and twisted thread. A drawing is given of a case where the varicocele was associated with a very pendulous state of the testis. For this Lee cut out a wedge-Uke piece of the scrotum and veins between the twisted sutures. Lee, 1^.—radical cure of Varicocele. Lancet, June 22nd, p. 611. The dilated veins were compressed at two points Avith twisted sutui'es i the intermediate portion of the vessels, with the skin, -was then removed in a wedge-shaped piece, by transiixion with a narrow blade, and cutting outwards. The wound thus made was closed by approximating: the two needles. Davies, E.—On the radical cure of Varicocele. Lancet, July 20th. p. 61. y J i Unable to disengage a double loop of wire which he had placed