EUPOTIT ON THE rXSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. curdy substance, soluble in etber. Iodide of potassium was administered for the rheumatism, and given, for twenty-seven days, at the rate of (ll'teen grains per diem. At the end of this time the chylous state of urine had disappeared, and up to June, i860, had not returned. Eobehts, Dr. W.—On the occurrence of Deposits of Crystallized Phos- phate of Lime in JLealthy Urine. Brit. Med. Journ., March 30th, P- 332. According to the author, the prevailing arrangement is that of crystalline rods or needles grouped round a centre. About two grains of crystals, col- lected from diabetic patients, were thus examined:—(i) Treated with caustic potash, they evolved no ammonia, nor were they in any way afiected by boil- ing, even in caustic alkalies. (2) They dissolved slowly in acetic acid, with- out effervescence. After addition of oxalate of ammonia a precipitate fell, presenting minute octahedra of oxalate of lime. (3) They were dissolved rapidly by mineral acids; ammonia added afterwards in excess, threw down an amorphous sediment. Such cr^'stals have been obtained by the addition of chloride of calcium to healthy uj-iue, and reducing its acidity to near the neutral point with caustic soda. Tlie appearance of a crystal- line deposit of phosphate of lime is not common. It would seem to be the accompaniment of some grave disorder. A depressed acidity of the urine is an essential contingent to the formation of these crystals. Clemens.—The action ofJBaths on the formation of the Urine. Froriep'g Not., i860, vol. ii, No. 2. Canst., vol. i, p. 140. The author found that all baths diminish the specific gravity of the urine which is passed during, or just after, the bath, and that the urine passed for several hours afterwards is rich in phosphates and poor in uric acid and water. PARASITES. Andehson, Dr. M'CalI/.—On the Parasitic Affections of the Skin. Wood- cuts. London, pp. 1^52. Letjckaet, Prof. Ettdolp.— On the Structure and Development of the Pentastoma, luith special researches on the Pent, tcenioides and P. denticulatum. Plates. 4to, Leipzig, i860. KiiCHENMEiSTEE, M.—The Cysticercus cellulostis transfoiined within the Organism of Man into the Icenia soliwn. Lancet, January 12th, p. 39. To a condemned criminal a quantity of cysticerci were given on the a4th of November and i8th of January. The prisoner was decapitated on the 31st of March, and at the autopsy it was found that half the cys- ticerci that had been swallowed were transformed into flat worms, of which eleven presented mature segments. Some of the latter were still connected ; the others were detached, and had moved towards the lower part of the canal. There were eight other worms, which had not ripened as yet. All the parasites were comparatively small, the longest not reach- ing beyond five feet.