468 UEPOET ON PUBLIC HEALTH. HoRSLEY.—Oh the Adulteration of Butter. Chem. News, vol. iv p. 230. Mr. Ilorsley founds the detection of animnl fats in butter on the fact that pure butter is perfectly soluble in ether, forming a clear and permanent solution at 6^° Fahr., whereas adulterated butter gives a thick, milky fluid when treated in this manner. The applicabihty of this test has been disputed, but Mr. llorsley's subsequent experiments have completely confirmed the results first arrived at. StefanELLi.— On the action of Lead on Drinking Water. Ztsch. f. Chem. u. Pharm., vol. iii, p. 33. Tiie author' s conclusions are as follows:—Drinking water acquires the property of dissolving lead when it contains nitrates, alkalies, or the alcaline bicarbonates ; but the bicarbonates of lime and magnesia precipi- tate lead when in solution. Mulder.—On Beer, its chemical cotnposition, manufacture, and employ- ment as a beverage. 8vo, Utrecht, 1861. EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. HoRNEMANN.—On the measures to be taken in respect of Ships arriving from Ports in which Cholera Asiatica is prevailing. Hyg. Medd. og Betragt, vol. i, p. 81. Henke, part 3, p. 56, 1861. »• In Denmark, as in other countries, the opinion of the medical pro- fession as to the value of quarantine regulations gradually changed, until, in 1852, the quarantine laws were abolished. The advent of cholera in the following year produced a reaction in favour of restrictive regulations, although no one wished them revived in their old form. Dr. Hornemann strongly advocates the sanitary inspection of shipping on arrival in port, not only with a view to contagious diseases, hw}. to the enforcement of cleansing and ventilation. Bryson.—0?i the recent introduction of Yellow Fever into Port Royal, Jamaica. .Epidemiological Society, Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 236. The author relates some striking facts in support of the communicability of yellow fever. H.M.S. Icarus arrived on the 9th of October at Port Royal, Jamaica, where no cases of the disease had occurred, with fifty of the'crew suffering from yellow fever, thirty-two having previously died. The worst cases were sent on shore in a pinnace belonging to the Imaum, which vessel was at the time free from disease. The boat's crews were first attacked, and subsequently their shipmates on board the Imaum. The crews of two other vessels who had communication with the Icarus were invaded by yellow fever subsequently, but no diffusion of the disease took place on shore. It thus appears that, "from one central focus, within the short space of a few weeks, the yellow fever was radiated in three distinct and distant directions, establishing in each point a fresh nucleus of infection."