PSYCHIATEIK. 171 Cretinism and Idiocy. Review of Works hy Zillner and Firchow. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1861. Zillner distinguishes idiocy according to its causes as follows:—(i) Constitutional, family, or hereditary idiocy. Such is apt to prevail where epilepsy, chorea, deafness, dumbness, &c., are common. (2) Traumatic, where the skull or its contents have been injured by a blow, or fall, or pressure, or any other such accident. (3) Congestive idiocy. (4) Idiocy from exhaustion, as after hydrencephaloid disease. (5) Toxic idiocy, as from laudanum and brandy. (6) Malarial idiocy, which appears es- pecially in the form of cretinism. Virchow and Zillner both trace a con- nexion between marsh fever and acute affections of the thyroid gland. Zillner also distinguishes the chamber or house miasm as a cause of idiocy. This is identical with bad sanitary conditions. (7) Idiocy from other and accidental causes, as pertussis, and, as the reviewer states, from the exanthemata which, according to him, very frequently give rise to idiocy. The skulls of idiots show diminished length, but increased breadth and height. The frontal arch is flattened, and the whole frontal bone small. The sutures are apt to become united prematurely, and if this condition affect one while growth continues on the other edges of the bones, various deformations of the skull result. Thus, synostosis of the sagittal suture, with growth on the anterior and posterior margins of the parietal, produces a long or dolico-cephaUc head ; synostosis of the coronal gives rise to the platycephalic variety of the brachycephalic head; of the lambdoidal to the pachycephalic variety, and so on. Microcephalus may be the result of premature, general synostosis. The form of the skull of the cretin is not specific, but may he variously misshaped. Virchow shows that pre- mature synostosis of the bones at the base of the skull has an important influence on the position and development of the bones of the face, and even on the arch of the head. A skull with a short compared with one which has a long basis shows recession of the frontal wall, depression of the root of the nose, diminution and flattening of the anterior and spheno-temporal fossae, and enlargement of the posterior. Sadze, a.—On Remissions in the course of General Paralysis, Anuales Medico-Psycholog. Journ. of Mental Science, July, 1861. Sauze sums up his conclusions as follows:—(i) That the intermissions which occur in the course of general paralysis present themselves under three principal forms ; (2) under the first form there is an entire disap- pearance of the symptoms of paralysis, and a persistence of dementia; (3) the second form is, on the contrary, characterised by signs of para- lysis and by the apparent absence of intellectual lesion; (4) the simul- taneous amendment of the symptoms of dementia and of paralysis constitutes the third form ; (5) besides the three principal forms, w» find certain intermissions to which it would be difficult to assign a precise place in the pathological plan ; (6) in all intermissions, whatever their dominant form, we meet with one common symptom, namely, the enfeeble- ment in a greater or less degree of the intellectual and moral faculties; (7) this dementia is sometimes difficult to discover, but it never evades the observation of the physician who knows how to seek for the signs of it; (8) in some less favorable cases, not only do we meet with a certain