ALKALOIDS. 423 Neavjian.—Crtse illusfratinff the antagonistic effects of Opium and Belladonna. Brit. Med. Jouru., vol. ii, p. 30. A female, set. 5^, took, at an interval of three hours, two doses, each of a quarter of a grain, of acetate of morphia, the last being taken at mid- night. She slept heavily till 6 a.m., when, in order to procure more sleep, she took two pills made from a plaster, (Emplastrum Thuris c. Bella- donna,) which had been applied some days before. Shortly after the pupils became dilated, and delirium supervened, which assumed the characteristic features of that produced by belladonna. Poisoning hj 0/«w?h.—Pharmac, vol. ii, pp. ,386, 486, 536,584,616} vol. iii, pp. 45, 46, 151, 199, 292, 294, 341. Alkaloids of the Solanacece. St, Auge.—Poisoning hy Hyoscyamus. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p.383- A gentleman took by mistake for borage two cups of infusion of hen- bane. When seen a short time after, he was in bed, in a state of profound sleep. The features were pale, the lips blue, the breathing tranquil, and the pulse full (82). On being roused, he muttered and became irritable. On attempting to make him drink, he resented it violently, and soon fell into a state of hallucination, in which his countenance assumed a menacing aspect, and he called on various absent persons by name, with whom he imagined himself to be in debate. When left to himself he relapsed into a lethargic sleep. Sinapisms were applied to the thighs and legs, and five grains of tartar-emetic given by the mouth, after which he rapidly recovered. Evans.—Poisoning by the Berries of Belladonna. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. ii, p. 305. A child, iel. p, who had taken four berries of belladonna, was admitted into the General Hospital at Birmingham at three p.m., with dilated pupils, quick pulse, and heat of skin, but no other symptoms whatever of poison- ing. Three hours afterwards, as no symptoms had occurred, she was allowed to get up. On doing so, she became "giddy and confused," and "so(3n began to make snatches at imaginary objects," which appeared from her talk to be chiefly articles of work, and various insects, &c. From this time the delirium rapidly increased—at one time expressive of joy, at another of terror. The tongue became dry, the heat of skin increased, the pulse became more rapid, and the voice became singularly clear. This condition continued until the evening of the following day, when, after the action of a stimulant enema, given to relieve tympanitis,* she fell asleep, and awoke next morning convalescent. RoTix.—Poisoning hy yltropine. Ann. de Ther,, p. 13. Dehizi,.—Preparation of Nicotine. Ann. de Th6r., p. 28. The method employed consists in passing steam through a quantity of tobacco mixed with lime in powder. The steam becomes charged with nicotine, and is condensed. The distillate is then exactly neutralized with