repout on the institutes of medicine. 08 treadwlieel-day. The exact amount of tlie diminution could not be deter- mined, since in the three preceding days two treadwiieel-days were included, and thus this basis of comparison was unduly elevated. The excretion of chloride of sodium was increased to f,42 grains per day. The quantity of urinary water evolved remained unchanged. 4. The urea, which had fallen during the action of tea, remained below the average during the action of colFee (which was administered after the experiments on tea), but it rose 42 grains daily, and at the end of the period was scarcely below the quantity normally evolved. The quantity of chloride of sodium evolved was 50 grains daily less than with the tea, viz., 494 grains. The quantity of urinary water was not changed. 5. The urea was also lessened during the action of alcohol, to the extent of 26 grains per day below the normal quantity ; but it was still 14 grains r per day higher than the quantity to which it first fell with the tea. The effect was much more evident with treadwheel-labour on the first day, for instead of an increase with labour there was an elimination of 43 grains less than occurred on the previous day with rest, but on the third day the increase with labour was iii grains over that evolved on the Sunday. On the first day the barometer fell greatly and tended to prevent the elimina- tion of urea. The greatest efl'eet was upon the elimination of urinary water, and caused a diminution of no less than 20 ounces per day on the average of the three days ; and as there was an unusual thirst during the administration of the alcohol (without, however, any additional fluid food being allowed), it is easy to see in how great a degree alcohol tends to temporarily fix fluid in the tissues of the body, and in doing so to restrain the emission of urea. Hence the effect of tea, coffee, and alcohol, in lessening the emission of urea, appeared to be temporary only, and in the case of alcohol was associated with retention of fluid in the body, and consequently with an increase of weight. Smith, E., and Milnek, W. E.—Report on tJie action of Prison Diet and Discipline on tJie Bodily Functions of Prisoners. Trans. Brit. Assoc. Prison lahotir and seclusion.—The authors found that the prisoners emitted much more urea than occurs in ordinary life. On Sundays, with entire rest, the amount of urea was commonly lessened, but the nitrogen in the I'seces was increased in the same degree. With treadwheel-labour there was a small increase in the amount of urea and of urine evolved, whilst there was a small decrease in the evolution of chloride of sodium in the urine. Of two sets of prisoners making very different amounts of exertion, viz., the tailors and the weavers, it was found by Smith and Milner that the weavers of cocoa matting, when compared with the tailors, were older, taller, heavier, and broader ; thej^ took more bread, milk and water. They lost weight, whilst the tailors gained weight. They emitted more urine, urea, chloride of sodium, and faces. The authors affirm that a dietary of bread and water or gruel only cannot be enforced without injury to the system. They also state, in reference to the necessity for extra Ibod, that bread is far iuferior to milk as an article