EEPOllT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 470 The measures of prevention advocated by Dr. Budd are founded on the "facts" that diphtheria \b contagious or "catching," and that tlic exuviie from the surface on which the poison exerts its specific action possess in an eminent degree the power to propagate the disease. To this power the author attributes great importance in tlie diffusion of tlie disease. In towns the "diphtheritic stuff is thrown into the privy or waterclosct, whence it finds its way into tlie cesspool or sewer. In country places a dung-heap, hard by the cottage door, is its more common receptacle; or failing the dung-heap, it is cast into some open gutter, whicli carries it, perhaps by a slow current, through the whole length of a village." "In every severe case of diphtheria not only the dwelling-house, but the soil around it, becomes infected with the diphtheritic poison, over an area which varies with the malignity of the case, the character of the soil, with the particular season, and, lastly, with the nature of the sanitary and other arrangements." Hence, " to make an end of the morbid product as soon as cast forth, or at least to use all available moans to prevent its deadly germs from taking fresh root," ought to be, as regards prevention, "the one thought of the physician." The paper contains several examples in support of the communicabiUty of the disease. Syphilis communicated hy Vaccination to forty-six Children out of sixty- three. Bull, de Ther-., vol. Ixi, p. 474. Syphilis conveyed by the Vaccine Lymph to forty-six Children. Lancet, Nov. 16th. A child, set. 11 months, was vaccinated with lymph stored in a "tube," derived from an unknown source in a neighbouring town. The lymph was inserted by puncture with a clean lancet. A single vesicle was pro- duced, from which lymph was taken at the tenth day, and employed to vaccinate forty-six children, from one of whom seventeen others were vacci- nated ten days later. Out of these sixty-three children forty-three are said to have presented, within two months, symptoms of syphilitic disease, viz., thirty-eight of the first series and seven of the second. The child from whose arm the lymph used in the first series of vaccinations was obtained was severely affected, but the symptoms could not be investi- gated ; the child whose vesicles furnished the second supply died from an unknown cause within a month of the vnccination. A committee was appointed by the medical congress at Acqui to investigate the symptoms, which were of the following nature. It was related to the committee that in some of the cases the vaccine vesicle, instead of cicatrizing, extended and began to suppurate anew, becoming surrounded about the twentieth day by a red, livid, or copper- coloured areola. In other cases ulceration was re-established after com- plete cicatrization, and in some of these instances it was accompanied by a general eruption, "confounded by the peasantry with smallpox." On the 7th of October six had died without treatment, three were in a state of marasmus, and fourteen were improving decidedly under a treatment which consisted in mercurial frictions and iodide of potassium in small doses. Tlie symptoms actually existing at the period of the inquiry were as