ABDOME^^ 299 PorXD Gr —Case of Strangulated Hernia, treated successftdli/ hj tie inverting method. Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 17th, p. 169. An oblique inguinal hernia of old standing, and not very acutely strangulated. ^ Hutchinson, J. G.—Gase of Congenital Inguinal Hernia, strangulated. Amer. Med. Times, May i8th, p. 319. . ■Ro-LT.—Strangulated Congenital Hernia in an Infant; herniotomy,- recovery. Lancet, Sept. zStli, p. 295. Vn^.—Congenital Inguinal Hernia of the right side; operation; conva- lescence on the fourtli dag. Lancet, March 9th, p. 237. TAmm-Daji.—Strangulated Congenital Hernia in an Infant; operation; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Eeb. 2nd, p. 117. A hoy, 17 months old, was admitted into King's College Hospital, November 26th, i860, with a swelling in the left groin and scrotum, which had existed from birth, but had, till the preceding day, always dis- appeared when the child was laid down. Eestlessness, constipation, and bilious vomit. Swelling in scrotum irreducible, and very tender. Herniotomy; the stricture was at the external ring. The testis was deeply congested. Wil-SON,"W. J.— Unusual complications of an Oblique Congenital Inguinal Hernia in a patient twenty-seven years of age, prohahly the result of a freak of development. Lancet, June 15th, p. 583. These complications were—testis retained in the inguinal canal and an oval mass of omentum occujaying the natural position of the testis (which it most deceptively simulated) enclosed in a sac, the neck of which had become contracted. Stanley.—Inguinal Hernia partially reduced en masse; operation; death. Med. Times and Gaz., Telj. 9th, p. 145. A man, set. 32, long the subject of hernia, whilst drunk, felt the bowel protrude, and tried himself to reduce it. The swelling disappeared, but symptoms of strangulation continued. Stanley operated; found the sac at the upper end of the canal, opened it, and divided the stricture, which was in its neck. HvssEL, N. C.—Case of Inguinal Hernia, in tvhich the contents of the sac was the sigmoid flexure of the colon; operation; recovery. Amer. Med. Times, JiUy 6th, p. 7. A labourer ruptured himself by lifting a heavy gate; the following evening (the taxis having failed, though perseveringly tried several times, for periods of one and two honrs) Hussel operated, and after slitting up the inguinal canal and sac, returned the bowel, which is stated to have been the sigmoid flexure of the colon. The patient recovered. Bbadfoed, P, J.—Successful operation for Inguvnal Hernia, loith the Testicle and Sac loth above Pouparfs Ligament. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, No. Ixxxiv, new series, Oct., p. 432. Herniotomy for a large strangulated bubonocele. The undescended testis (small and long) was " immediately under the sac."