UBPOllT ON FOUENSIC MEDICINE. 450 opened by Dr. Canuet, pus and Llood were discharged, after which it par- .tially liealed; a fistulous aperture was left, from which, eight or ten days after the operation, yellowish matter (the contents of (he intestine) bean to escape. The orifice soon closed, but reopened some time after, in con- sequence of which the patient was received into hospital, where a fistulous abscess was found to exist, but no fjEcal discharge was observable until some time subsequently. On the 20th May Prof. Tardieu examined the patient, and gave an opinion, of which the following is the summary :— Hamelain was suffering at the time that Dr. Canuet was called in, from an abscess, the development of which had been coincident with that of a hernia in the same situation. Both were dependent on the violent exertion which the patient had made on the i_5th September; the incision prac- tised by Dr. Canuet was indicated by the state of the patient, and as regards the communication of the intestine with the cavity of the abscess, the measure employed was that by which alone that complication could have been prevented. The court acquitted Dr. Canuet, both of the criminal and civil responsibility, and adjudged the plaintiflF to pay the costs. HoFMANN.—Medico-legal Opinions. Henke, part i, p. io8. No. II. Opinion as to d Venesection, in respect of which an action for damages was brought against a medical practitioner. A woman, suffering from peritonitis, was bled by Dr. B. in the right arm. Inflammation of the veins and lymphatics occurred shortly after- wards, which went on to suppuration, and was treated by Dr. B. with leeches, fomentations, &c. Five months subsequently proceedings were taken, and medical evidence was adduced to show that the patient had entirely lost the use of her arm, all of the joints of which were said to be permanently flexed; and, according to one witness, anchylosed. On the side of the defence it was alleged that the patient had simulated the stiffness of the arm, which disappeared completely when she was put under the influence of chloroform ; that the arm was in a perfectly sound state, with the exception of the cutaneous scars produced by the angeio- leucitis above referred to; that the operation had been performed in a skilful manner, neither the artery nor the tendon of the biceps nor any important nerve having been injured, as was asserted by the medical witnesses for the prosecution. ScHULTZE.—Rupture of the Vagina shortly after Birth; Prolapsus and Rupture of the Intestine; medical opinion on the proceedings against a midwife accused of manslaughter. Casper, vol. xix, p. 215. The wife of a labourer, who had already had ten children, was delivered naturally of a healthy child after a labour of five hours. A short time after the delivery the midwife, in the endeavour to remove the placenta, introduced her hand into the vagina. Suddenly the patient cried out and rose from her position, whereupon a convolution of intestine was brought down instead of the placenta. Death followed on the third day. On the opinion of the district physician, that the rupture of the vagina might have taken place spontaneously, the midwife was acquitted; but on an