270 BEI'ORT ON' SURGimv. GoHDON-, A.—O/i the Treatment of Fracture of the lower extremiti/ of the Badins. Eclin. Med. Journ., May, p. cjijg. Grordon recommends a slraiglit wooden sjilint, to the radial side of Avliicli a piece of Avood is littod, m bevelled as to fill up tbe natural concavity of the front of tlic radius. Pabmentieu.—T7/^ oUifiue Fracture of the Jlimerus above the Con (hit es L'Uniou, 65, i8!5i. Sclimidfc's Jahrb., vol. 112, No. 10, p. 65'. llVTOUTS^O-^.—Detachment of the Fpiph/sis of the Bailius in loth Arms. Lancet, Aug. 24tb, p. 184. _ A boy, a?t. 8, in falling from a tree was supposed to have pitched on his outstretched hands and to have dislocated his wrists. jN'o crepitus Avas felt, and the deformity Avas removed by extension. Three Aveeks afterwards botli epiphyses had firmly nnited to the shafts, but Avith much thickening and some displacement backAvards. GiOY-RK^-D.—Splitting off the Einphysis of the lower end of the Badins. G-az. des Hop., 124, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, No. 3, p. 324. The differential diagnosis of this injury, Avith cases. The lower fragment follows the movements of the hand. Crepitation is not felt when the hand is moved, nor in effecting reduction. The replaced bones have no tendency to displacement. Fractures of the Lower Extremity. Le G-eos Claeit, r.—Fractures of the Lower Extremity. Med. Times and Gaz., March i6th, p. 271. Smith, N. E.—The Anterior Suspensory Ajpparatus for the treatment of Fractures of the Loiver Extremity. This is a wire splint bent to the inclinations of the thigh, leg, or foot. It is secured to the front of the limb AA'ith starch bandages, and the limb is slung by two hooks that catch the Avire splint, one above, the other beloAv, the knee. SwrNTJrEJTE.—Treatment of Fractures of the Femur hy Simple Extension. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Feb. i6th, p. 539. A paper read before a meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York. SAvinburne fixes the pelvis Avith a perineal baud, the ends of which are fastened to the head of the bed, and extends the broken thigh by means of a cord which passes through a loop of plaster, the ends of Avhich are attached to the leg and is secured to the foot of the bed. The patient can move more freely and more safely than Avhen the long splint is used. In compound fractures the Avound is accessible, and perfect cleanliness may be preserved. The author appends a report of eighteen cases treated in this Avay, in only one of Avhich was there visible shortening or distortion of the thigh, and in none inversion or eversiou of the foot. CoTTiwa, Dr.-—Simptle Apparatus for Fractures of the Thigh. Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., Sept. 19th, p. 129.