PSYCHIATRIK. 160 general, a favorable prognostic sign. (3) It is most frequently observed in cases of recent occurrence. (4) In the passage of the primary forms of psychosis into tlie so-called secondary forms, the confounding of persons not uufrequently disappears, and its doing so is here an un- favorable sign. (5) In the passage of the primary forms of mental disturbance into recovery, such disappearance is one of the most certain tests of recovery. Sutherland, A. J.—Croonian Lectures on the Pathology, Morbid Ana- tomy, and Treatment of Insanity, 1858. Journal of Mental Science, Jan., April, July, 1861. Sutherland contends that no single theory of the pathology of insanity is adequate to account for the phenomena. The causes of the disease may be mental or physical, and in the latter case may be of very various and even opposite Iciiids. He first examines the relations of the nerve-force to insanity, and then those of the blood. In two cases which he cites, disease about the origin of the nerves supplying parts which had been the seat of morbid sensations was discovered after death. Some forms of paralysis may be distinctly traced to excessive expenditure of nerve-force or to sudden shocks. After considering the state of the nerve-force in cases of dementia and mania, Sutherland remarks on the effect of certain atmospheric states on the condition of the insane. At certain epochs (quoting from Foville) he observes that a general and unwonted excite- ment is remarked in a lunatic asylum, while, again, on other days everything is unusually tranquil. Yet he admits that the accurate barometrical and thermometrical registers kept at Colney Hatch have at present failed to show that the fits of epileptic patients are influenced by the mere weight and temperature of the atmosphere. Insanity, in his experience, has some- times supervened on influenza, as a consequence of the extreme nervous depression attendant on that disorder. With regard to the blood, the results of various analyses go to show that the blood of acute mania cor- responds with that of idiopathic anaemia, and the blood of paralysis of the insane, as far as the diminution of albumen is concerned, with that of symptomatic anaemia. Lect. II treats of the morbid anatomy of insanity. Casts were shown proving that the shape of the head in the insane may be actually superior to that of the sane. A summary is given of the alterations which occur in the cranium, the meninges, and the brain, and various specimens were exhibited and described in illustration. Sutherland notices Dr. Boyd's statement, as to the average weight of the brain in lunatics being heavier than in health, and confirms it as regards cases of mania, melancholia, and epilepsy, but not as regards dementia and paralysis of the insane. He says it is not always possible to distinguish acute from chronic cases by the appearance of the cortical structure, for even in acute cases we find sometimes the appearance of commencing softening and of atrophy, and occasionally the cut surface maybe as pale as in a chronic case. But cer- tauily, in the majority of recent cases, the cortical structure is of a greater depth, of a deeper colour, and presents a more defined margin, than in a chronic case; and in recent cases we can generally trace the wliite l)ands separating the vesicular structure sometimes into three, sometimes into six layers. In a well-marked chronic case we find the aufractuosities wide,