UEPORT ON MIDWIFEKY, ETC. 888 child's licnd, the os uteri not to be felt. Tiie uterus lay to the right, and contained n foetus, the head to the left, the back to the front. The right arm of the foetus could be felt from the vagina in the small space left behind the pubis. The upper surface of the round, hiird tumour could be felt through the abdominal wall. Under chloroform strong pressure was made against the tumour from the vagina and rectum, and, finally, it was pushed up into the abdomen ; the os was then found open, version efl'ected, and a live child extracted. The patient died three days after, of puerperal fever. The tumour is believed to have been originally small, and to have increased greatly in size during pregnancy. After death it was the size of a child's head, somewhat elliptical in shape. Mayeu, L.—Gradually increasing Pelvic narrowing, from the growth of a Fibrous Tumour attached to the first sacral and last lumbar Vertebrae; induction of artificial premature labour by Cohen's method. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 354. Ojlshausen.—Fibrous Tumour in the smaller Pelvis; artificial Prema- ture Labour. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 362. Cockle, Dr.—Large, encysted. Urinary Calculus in a Primipara, pro- bably inducing Premature Labour ; Craniotomy ; death from Metro-peritonitis. Lancet, Sept, 7th, 1861, p. 229. TOO GREAT RAPIDITY OE LABOUR. KuBY.—On Precipitate Labour from a Medico-legal Point of View. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., i86i. Keport of meeting of German Natu- ralists, &c. (Obstetric section), at Spires, 1861. Two cases are related in which labour took place very rapidly; in both cases the mothers were very young (18 and ijf). In the first case the child was killed probably by falling on the edge of a vessel; in the secoud, the child was born whilst the mother was in "bed, and was born with one pain. Professor Ilecker stated, in reference to this subject, that twelve such cases had come under his observation ; in three of these birth took place in the standing posture. Rarely had bad results followed ; laceration of the funis and slight haemorrhage were the most common of these accidents. PLURAL BIRTHS. Spath, Prof.—Ore Tviins. Wien. Zt., i860, 15, 16. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 314. . This is an essay containing the results of previous observations lu regard to the diagnosis, the proportions of the sexes, the period of develop- ment, mortality, &c., in cases of twins. UNNATURAL PRESENTATIONS. Von Helly.—Om Frontal Presentations. Mediz. Jahrb. Wien. 1861, 5. Eight cases are related, in five of which the children were born alive,