lUCPOllT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINK. I 5^ Irequontly admitted inlo tlic luuii^s in order to remove the excess of the vapour prosoiiL in the bk)<)d. (3) That during,' the udmiuiBtratioii of chlo- rolorm great atlontiou should be paid to the state of the rewpiration, which ought to guide tlie exliibition of the anaesthetic agent still more than the condition of the pulse. If tlie inspirations become less deep and respiration appear failing, air free from clilorofonn ouglit to be imme- diately admitted into the lungs, not only because this state of the resj)i- ration is an indication of there being an overdose of chloroform in the blood, bnt also because the diminished respiration is in itself a cause of danger, by preventing the blood from ridding itself of the chloroform it contains. (4) That when a patient has sunk under the effects of poi- soning by chjoroform the only means of restoring animation is by artificial respiration, adopting such a method as is best calculated to introduce as nnich air as possible into the hnigs, in order to remove the poison from the blood, and at the same time stimulating the action of the heart. Sansost, Dr.—Oil the Action of Chloroform. Med. Times and Graz., April 20th, p. 433. After alluding to several theories regarding the action of chloroform, the author related some experiments which he had performed with it on non-cireulatijig and on circulating blood. His conclusion is that chloroform exerts a caustic action upon the proteinous cell-wall of the blood-corpuscle; this action being manifested in the following progressive manner:—(i) Corrugatio]i of cell-wall; alteration of shape. (3) Coherence of corpuscles. (3) Coalescence of cell-contents ; an actual solution of the corpuscles. Instant stasis of circulating blood is effected if fluid chloroform permeate the lining walls of the vessels. The circulation in the web of a frog's foot, as seen by the aid of a microscope, is thus modified by ana?sthetizing the frog by the vapour of chloroform :—(i) Increase of velocity of circulation. (2) Dilatation of arteries and capillaries. (3) Decrease of velocity of circulation. (4) Alteration of cell-w'alls of corpuscles ; cohere^ice. (5) Interruption by cohering masses to capillary circulation. (6) Stasis of the blood. The enlarged capacity of the arterial system and the decrease of the velocity of the circulation account for the aujemia of the brain observed during narcotism. ('American Journal of Medical Science,' Oct., i860, p. 400.) The author summed up his conclusions as follows—ist. That chloroform-narcotism is due to the imperfect stimulus to the vital functions of a mal-oxygenated blood. 2nd. That this mal-oxygenation is due to the direct influence of the vapour of chloroform upon the blood, and especially upon the blood-corpuscles. 3rd. That the vapour acts caustically on the cell-walls of the blood-corpuscles, and thus impedes the en'dosmosis of oxygen. 4th. That if the blood be so de- teriorated as to supply an insufficient stimulus to the heart, death is by syncojK"; whilst if stasis be primarily eff"ectcd in the huigs, death is by apncea. SAXSOir, T)v.—On the Modes of Death from Chloroform. Lancet, Aug. 24th, p. 179. The author concludes from bis researches that in cases of daiiger