NERVOUS SYSTEM. 31 complete memoir on the same subject, which the author promises to publish iu the coiu'se of a few mouths. lu it the author describes the structiu-e of certaiu portious of the medulla oblongata, the corpora quadrigemiua and pineal gland. When carefully examined, he says, the latter organ is found to be composed of fibres, nuclei, and the well- known brain-sand. The fibres are arranged in two ways; throughout, the gland they form, by peculiar subdivisions and communications, an intricate network, in which the nuclei are lodged. Some of them are exceedingly fine, others rather coarse, but bear no resemblance to what Ave are accustomed to call nerve-fibres. They are frequently crooked,^ and apparently jointed or dilated at intervals, where they give oft' branches wliieh bear nuclei; in other places the nuclei are surrounded by flat riband-like fibres. Here and there the fibres of the network go oft" to form straight bundles, which unite into larger trunks, and have chiefly a transverse direction. The reticular structure bears a decided resemblance to the epithelium of the olfactory mucous membrane, and still more to what the author has elsewhere described as the foiurth layer of the olfactory bulb in the sheep, and particularly in the cat. Ploweb, Wii. H. (Eoy. Coll. Surg.)—Observations on the Posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum of the Quadrtmana, icith a Description of the Brain of a Galaxjo. Proc. Eoy. Soc, No. 45, p. 376. Elower's observations extended to three families of the order Quad- rumana. Family i, Catarrhina; 2, Platyrrhina ; 3, Strepsirrhina. He concludes by saying that many links are still wanting iu the chain of evidence required to determine the true history and classificatoiy value of the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle, and the peculiar dispo- sition of the cerebral substance constituting the hippocampus minor, but the conditions in which they have been found at so many distinct points of the series, appear to lead almost ii-resistibly to the following conclusions:—(i) That these parts, so far from being peculiar to the human brain, are common to man, and the whole of the Quadrumana,^ including even the lowest forms. (2) That they attain their maximum of development in species which do not belong to either extremity of the series. (3) That in the lower forms their diminution takes place chiefly in the antero-posterior direction, corresponding with the reduced length of the posterior cerebral lobes, the greater part of which is occupied by them. (4) That in the higher forms they are narrower in proportion to their length, and bear a smaller ratio to the surround- ing mass of cerebral substance. (5) That the extreme of the last condition is met with in man, where these parts are also characterised by their variability in size and form, want of symmetry on the two sides, and frequent rudimentary condition, or even entire absence. Plourens.—Neio experiments on the Belative Indej)e)idence of the CerC' bral Functions. Comptes Eendus, April 8th, 1861, p. 673. When engaged forty years ago in experiments tending to show that the intellectual and the motor faculties are connected with the cere- brum and cerebellum respectively, the author instituted several collate- ral researches, hitherto unpublished, which he has recently repeated,