89 DIGESTIVE SYSTEJr. lar^e birds, Hyrtl fouud the iutestinal villi to contain from three to six vessels, running nearly to the free extremity, anastomosing on their course, and finally terminating in one another. At the bases of the villi the vessels join large submucous trunks. LvsciiKA.—The Fiiuitari/ Bodij and Coccygeal Gland of Man. "With two copper-plates. 4to, Berlin, i860. Canst., vol. i, pp. 86, 105. This work contains an elaborate account of the coccygeal gland (discovered by the author) and the pituitary body,—structures, he re- marks, situated at the opposite extremities of the (transcendental) ver- tebral column, and forming, Avith the suprarenal capsules, his class of sympathetic nerve-elands. The posterior lobe of the pituitary body, like the iufundibulum, con- sists in the main of connective tissue and degenerated epithelium, with exceedingly few nerve-tubules and ganglion-cells. Thus deficient in cerebral characteristics, this body is regarded by Luschka as analogous to the central ligament of the spinal cord. The anterior lole, which owes its heterogeneous aspect to unequal distribution of the blood, is more or less distinct from the infundibulum and posterior lobe. It is surrounded by a proper capsule of areolar tissue, from which processes enter it and form alveoli, containing nucleolated glandular vesicles and other cells. This lobe receives its abundant supply of blood from the internal carotid by twigs which break up into a capillary network, sup- ported by the alveoli. Its delicate nerves spring from the carotid plexus. The coccygeal gland, situated just in front of the tip of the coccyx, in a space between the fibres of the levator ani, is oval in form, grayish- red in colour, and -J" in length. It possesses a very resistent stroma of filamentous tissue enclosing gland-vesicles, and irregular tubular structures, some of which resemble those in the pituitary body of reptiles, and some passing into the filamentous tissue. Both the vesicular and tubular cells are nucleolated, and possess a structureless wall, enveloped by nucleated fibrils similar to the connective tissue embracing the cells of the sympathetic ganglia. The vessels of the gland come from the middle and lateral sacral arteries. Its nerves, which form plexuses Avithin it, are derived from the coccygeal ganglion. One tubule was seen to pass into a nucleolated ganglion-cell. The gland may degenerate into cystic tumours. In function it is probably intimately allied with the sympathetic. KuAUSE.—Anatomical Investigations. Hannover, 1861. Canst., vol. 1, pp. 84, 89, 90. The structure of the coccygeal gland, as delineated above by Luschka, is confirmed on almost every point by this liistologist, though he thinks the envelope of the vesicles and tubules consist of smooth muscle, not of areolar tissue, and has failed to discover any ganglion-cells. With respect to the follicles of the tongvie, the author, unlike Bottcher (see p. 78), finds them constant in the healthy organ. He>-le.—On the Anatomy of the closed {Lenticular) Glands or Follicles, and the Lymphatic Glands. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. viii, p. 201. Canst., vol. i, p. 79.