30G EEPOUT ON STJRGDIIY. WiurjEY.—Case of Lithotomy. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., May nth, p. 133. Here the bilat|ral incision \vas adopted; tlie diameter of the stone was one inch and two fifths, and its composition oxalate of lime. Van Buren, W. H.—Successful case of Lateral Lithotomy. Amer. Med. Times, March i6th, p. 178. A child. The neck of the bladder was divided with a probe-pointed knife. Geoss.—Stone in the Bladder; Operation of Lithotomy for its removal. Philadelphia Med. and Sui'g. Eep., April 6th, p. 15. Post, A. C.—Mulberry Calculus; lithotomy. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. 2nd, p. 81. The bilateral operation was performed in this case. This stone weighed fifteen grains. "Waklet, J.— Calculus in the Bladder of a Male Child; lithotomy ; rapid recovery. Lancet, April 13th, p. 340. Kendal and Humphuet.—Tiuo cases of Stone in the Female. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 551. Stttbbs.—Dilatation and division of the Female Urethra uptoards, and extraction of a Stone. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. Cockle, Dr.—Large Fneysted Urinary Calculus in a JPrimipara, pro- bably inducing Premature Lahour; craniotomy; death by metro- peritonitis. Lancet, Sept. 7th, 229. Htjtchinson. — Statistical Report on Lithotrity performed in Pro- vincial Hospitals during year i860. Med. Times and Gaz., May 25th, p. 548. BowEN, E.—A case of Foreign Body in the Male Bladder. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 21st, p. 636. A gutta-percha bougie which came away piecemeal through an incision made as in the lateral operation for stone. Baenes.—Female Catheter in the Bladder; retroversion of the Uterus. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 26th, p. 434. For the removal of the catheter, which was five and a half inches long, the division of the anterior two tliii'ds of the urethra with the knife in an outward and downward direction towards the left side was necessary. Holt.—Stone in the Bladder of a Female Child; lithectasy; recovery. Lancet, April 13th, 361. TnOMPSO?!', H.—Bemoval of a mass of Sealing-ivajs from the Bladder by median lithotomy ; recovery. Lancet, April 20th, p. 381;. A man, ajt. 23, was accustomed to pass a bougie, formed by himself of sealing-wax. On one occasion from two to three inches broke oif, and slipped into the bladder. A fortnight afterwards micturition be- came frec^uent and painful, and the urine got thick and ropy. Some