376 REPORT OX MlDWIl'JiRY, KTC The diagnosis of vulvitis from syphilitic and other affections of the vulva is very fully pointed out. Thibieuge.—Vegetations of the Genitals during Pregnancy. Gaz. Hebd Feb. 8th, 15th, 1861. The vegetations appear on the external genitals, and are liable to be con- founded with syphilitic excrescences, LoiiENT.—Case of "Lupus Hypertrophicus" of the Vulva. Mou. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 350. The treatment finally adopted was amputation ; a cure was obtained. Martin.—Case of " Lupus Exulcerans" of the Vulva; cured. Mon. f Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 348. The patient's age was twenty-five. Fuming nitric acid was applied under chloroform inhalation, and subsequently solution of nitrate of silver. Mayer, L.—Clinical observations on the development of Cancroids of the Female Sexual Organs. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 241. PUECH, A.—On Atresia of the Genital Passages in Women, and the results of the same. Comptes Rend., Dec. 9th, i86i, p. 1066. In 258 cases analysed, rupture from distension by menstrual fluid oc- curred in eighteen cases ; in fifteen others the Fallopian tubes became dilated, and in five of these also rupture occurred. Patry.—Complete absence of the Vagina, with presence of normal Uterus; two operations; cure. Gaz. des Hop., 18, 1861. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 186. The patient was seventeen; the uterus was felt from the rectum, dis- tended with fluid ; no vagina. Below the meatus urinarius the mucous membrane was slightly incised, and by means of the index-finger a boring process persevered in at this situation at intervals during eleven days, at the end of which an artificial vagina, three centimetres long, was pro- duced. This orifice was enlarged by sponge-tents, and a trochar then plunged into the fluctuating tumour. The menstrual secretion then escaped ; a severe attack of metro-peritonitis followed, but was recovered from. Some months later the closure of the os uteri necessitated a second operation. The patient has been married eight years, but has not been pregnant. Menstruation is regularly performed. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—Congenital absence (?) of Vagina ; retention of Menses; puncture by the rectum; great relief. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 164. The vagina was natural as far as the hymen j no passage could be found above this point. Hicks, Dr. 'QvLh.yiTon.—Retention of Menses from imperforated Hymen; operation ; recovery. Med. Timesand Gaz., Aug. 17th, 1861, p. 163. Long. — Operation for imperforate Vagina ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 12th, 1861, p. 378. The patient was seventeen years old, well-developed, the vagina very