391 DISEASES OF CHILDREN, tions of early life,—protracted inability to suck, liability to laryngismus stridulus, &c. Hall, Dr. A., and David, Dr.—Will a Child bom after the Mother has had Smallpox, and contracted after she has conceived, be liable to contract the disease? Brit. Amer. Journ., Feb. and March, 1861. Two cases are related in which vaccination was attempted and failed, when the mother had had smallpox as above. No pitting of the children's skin was observed. Dr. David relates a third case precisely similar. BoucHUT.—On Groivth in relation to the Diseases of Children, L'Un., Dec. i2tb, &c,, 1861. The author has made an extended inquiry into the rate of growth in health and disease in children. The results of these inquiries are here given :—Under tlie influence of eclampsia, the simple febrile state, and some acute diseases, t!ie growth appears considerable, and the increase in height is from one to three or four centimetres. During the convalescence a portion of this increase is again lost. The author's conclusions as regards treatment are:—Where the child does not grow, rachitis may be suspected, and the whole regime and manner of living must be changed. Milk diet is to be given, meat not to be given, or vegetables or wine, and the patient must have country air, salt baths, and cod-liver oil. If the growth be too rapid, milk is to be given in less quantity, cold affusions and baths to be employed, and the patient directed to take walking exercise: sleep to be limited to seven hours on a hard bed. Fauke.—Some facts relative to the Vitality of the Foetus. Gaz. des Hop., May 14th, i86r. The facts cited show that even the cessation of the sound of the heart- beat is not necessarily indicative of death. Ploss.—On Mortality in Childhood, as affected by elevations and by the fridtfidness and mode of employment of the population. Vogel and Nasse's Arch., 1861, vol. vi, p. X17. Ploss.—Statistical Researches on Mortality in Childhood. Schmidt's Jahrb., 1861, vol. 112, p. 323. Gaiudner, Dr. W. I.—On Infantile Death-rates in their beat 'ing on Sanitary and Social Science. Glasg. Med. Journ., April, 1861. Moore, Dr. W.—On the more prominent causes of an Excessive Mortality in Early Life. Dubl. Hosp. Gaz., Aug. 15th, 1861, p. 246. The most prevalent causes are summed up as follows :—(i) Defective vitality at birth, transmitted by parents. (2) Mismanagement of parents or nurses with regard to food, dress, &c. (3) Deficiency of light, air, ven- tilation, ignorance of physiological laws and pathology and therapeutics of early life. Le Barillier.—Ok Vaccination of New-born Children. Gaz. des Hod Sept. 14th, 1861. LvzsimKY.—Fifth Report of the Children's Hospital(Mariahilf). Journ. f. Kind., March and April, i86x.