407 MANUALS AND GENEEAL TEEATISES. The Pharmaceutical Calendar of Northern Germany for:.i%6i. Berlin, ^nuA.—Therapeutics and Materia Medica. A systematic Treatise on the actions and uses of medicinal agents, includiuff their description and history. 8vo, Philadelphia, i860, in 2 vols,, pp. 1788. GuiBERT.—iVa^Mrfl^ and Medical History of the new Medicines introduced into Therapeutics from 1830 to the present time. (Prize Essay.) 8vo, Bruss?ls, i860, pp. 577. Hagen.—The Remedial Agents introduced hito practice since 1830, and the modes of preparing them. 8vo, Leipsic, 1861. Krahner.—Pharmacy for Medical Practitioners. 8vo, Halle, i86ij pp. 123^. Berg.—Characters of the most important Plants itsedin Medicine and the Arts. 2ncl ed. enlarged. Berlin, 1861, pp. 115. Berg.—Pharmaceutical Botany. 4th ed. revised. Berlin, i860. Tardieu.—Course of Lectures on Poisons. L'Union, vol. x, p. 4771 et passim. Pulverization of Liquids for Therapeutic Purposes. FouRNii.—On the penetration of pulvendent, gaseous, volatile, solid, and liquid Bodies into the Respiratory Passages. L'Union, vol. xii, P- 598- On this subject, -which is now exciting so much attention in France, the author's conclusions are to the following effect:—Impalpable powders con- tained in the air penetrate into the respiratory channels during in- spiration ; in the healthy state of the mucous membrane they are expelled by ciliary action, but not when the mucous membrane is in a state of catarrh ; no penetration occurs if respiration is performed through the nose exclusively. Pulverized liquids (that is, liquids reduced into a state of such extreme division* as to be suspended in the air breathed) enter the larynx and trachea, but do not reach the bronchial tubes. Numerous experiments are related, showing that pulverized solutions of salts having characteristic reactions could not be detected in the expecto- ration of patients who had inspired them. Demarquay.—On the penetration of Pulverized Liquids into the Air- passages. L'Union, vol. xi, p. 605. Demarquay has made similar experiments to those above related as to the inhalation of pulverized solutions. He found however, that, after administering to rabbits by pulverization a solution of perchloride of iron, and examining the respiratory organs immediately after, the salt could be detected by ferrocyanide of potassium throughout the whole of the bronchial ramifications, and even in the parenchyma of the lung. Sales-Giroks, Bouillaud.—Ort the "Dihte Respiratoire" in Diseases of the Chest. L'Union, vol. ix, p. 46. * This is accomplished by an apparatus In which the solution to be " pulverized" is impelled from a capillary tube in a minute stream with great force (under a pressure of four or five atmospheres) against a convex disc. In the administration of pulverized solutions, the tube and disc are introduced into the mouth.