uepout on the institutes or jiEniciNE. 104 BAL13IANT, G.— Researches on ilic Sexual Phenomena of Infimria Journ. do la Phys., April, 1861, p. 194. Rainey, George.—(SbjHC further Experiments and Observations on the mode of Formation and Coalescence of CarhonatcofUme-qlohules, and the Development of Shell-tissues. Micros. Journ., Jan.', p. 23. Tight.—Ort the Colour imparted to the Bones of the Fostus ly Madder mixed with the Food of the Mother dvrinr/ Gestation. Comptes rendus, 1861, February 4fch, p. 214, and 2 i;th, p. .367. The writer maintains that the dye is transmitted by the liquor amnii, which he supposes is swallowed by the fa^tus. In the human fretus he believes this process to commence regularly between the seventh and eighth month, to be a nutritive act, and to be the source of the meconium. Flotjueks.—The Coloration of the Foetal Bones h/ the medium of the Mother's Circulation. Comptes rendus, 1861, Januarj', p. 103. This physiologist has demonstrated the passage of fluids from mother to foetus in the rabbit, by introducing, during one or two days, a solution of prussiate of potash in small quantities at a time through an opening made in the trachea. By this treatment a greenish-blue tinge is imparted to the liquor amnii, and even to the stomach, kidneys, and urinary bladder of the foetus itself. Coinde.— Cases of Albinism. Comptes rendus, 1861, Feb. 4th, p. 214. The author narrates an instance in which a man, besotted and almost cretinized by indulgence in brandy, had three albino children successively, by two different mothers. The father had not the slightest appearance of an albino. Physiological Effect of Carbonic-acid Baths on the Develojjmenf of the Foetus in tttero. Foreign Correspondence of Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 23rd, p. 209. In a letter from the correspondent at Driburg, in Germany, we find the following marvellous physiological results attributed to the action of carbonic-acid baths. Quite recently, says the writer, Dr. Briick had a lady under his care whose general health was perfect, and who in her first con- finement was delivered of a microcephalus. Being enceinte for the second time, she took the baths at Driburg, and afterwards gave birth to a healthy child; in the third pregnancy she neglected the baths, and was again delivered of a microcephalus. When pregnant for the fourth time she came to Driburg, used tiie baths, and a health}'- child was the conse- quence. It seems almost incredible, but still it is a fact, that, being enceinte for the fifth time, she did not think it necessary to have recourse to that treatment, which had twice proved so eminently successful, and the consequence was that her former misfortune recurred. Since then she has been a regular visitor here, and her last confinement, which happened in the spring of i860, was perfectly satisfactory. One pound (7680 grains) of these waters contain— Free carbonic acid i / • i ,^43 grains. Bicarbonate of iron 07862 „ Bicarbonate of manganese .... o'i094 „ Bicarbonate of limo I4'89ii „