JIEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 366 Gallico and Poggeschi.—Jpiol in the treatment of Amenorrhcea and Dysmenorrhoea. L'Impartial. (Florence) July, 1861. These observers find the remedy efficacious. FIBROUS TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS; UTERINE POLYPI. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Fibroid Tumour of the Cervix Uteri. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The tumour, of very large size, was external to the vagina, which latter was everted, and the case resembled inversion of the uterus. The large mass was removed by transfixing the neck and tying by double iron-wire ligatures. It came away in five days, and the patient recovered. Brown, Baker.—On Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus treated by Sur- gical Means. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The cases considered are those in which intra-uterine fibrous tumours of the non-pedunculated form, grow from the interior of the uterus by a broad base. The author's practice consi^s in incising the os and cervix uteri, and then gouging out a portion of the tumour by means of an in- strument specially devised for the purpose, the remainder of the growth becoming then disintegrated and gradually expelled. Tins is done once, twice, or more, as may be required. Six cases in which these procedures were carried out are related. Beneficial results are stated to have followed iu four cases ; one had died of pyaemia, and one was still under treatment. The instruments used, devised by Mr. Harper, consist of a hollow tube of steel, with cutting knives, and within which is a hook which holds the tumour while the gouging is performed. Tanner, Dr.—A case of Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. There was a fibrous tumour in the posterior wall of the uterus, which gave rise to frequent dangerous haemorrhage, controlled best by mercurials to the extent of salivation. The patient finally died exhausted. There was a large cyst adherent to the fundus of the uterus, and close to it a smaller one. Habit, C.—On the inftuence of Tumours of the Sexual Organs on Pregnancy and Parturition. Wien. Zt., 41 and 42, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 314. The influence of these tumours (fibrous tumours, ovarian cysts) is very variable. Cases are related showing that sometimes they have no disturbing influence on pregnancy or delivery, while iu other instances the reverse is the case. Valenta, Prof.—Cotnplete Inversion of the Uterus and Vagina in con- sequence of the spontaneous expulsion of a large Fibrous Polypus. Wien. Med. Halle, 1861, 19. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 50. The polypus measured 21" in circumference. The pedicle was tied and then cut across, and the uterus and vagina replaced. The patient did well.