821 SYPHILIS AND GONOllEHQU. twenty of whom were at the same time aftected with primary syphilis or broad condylomata. A solution of 9iiss to 3SS of water was of little service ; in no instance was a single application of it successful, hut a stronger solution, of 3vss of chromic acid to 5SS of water, was used in nine cases with success. Hassing, Vrol—Gonorrhcea in Women, with es^jecial reference to ohser- vations made in the General Hospital in Copenhagen in 1856. Behrend's Syphilidologie, 11, 3, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,vol. no, No. 5, p. 185. Hassing recognises the essence of gonorrhoea in its specific secretion and contagiousness, and by these would distinguish it from all other secretions of the vaginal aiid urethral mucous membranes which depend on simple mechanical or chemical irritation. The signs by which it is to be distinguished are not given. The following forms are described:—(i) Gronorrhcea of the urethra. (2) Gronorrhcea of the vulva, with gonorrhcea of the sinus Bartholinianus, and gonorrhoea of the anus. (3) Vaginal gonorrhoea. (4) Uterine gonorrhoea. The treatment is simple, and essentially the same in all forms of gonorrhoea. Perfect cleanliness, baths, washing, and injections, quiet, and the horizontal posture, are enjoiued. Except in urethral gonorrhoea, balsams are useless. As local applications, Hassing uses lead and alum solutions and solid nitrate of silver. Davve, p.—Tlie Treatment of Clap with tsntall doses of Balsams, and the injection of basic saltpetre, oxide of hisinulh. Bull, de Thcr., lix, p. 299, October, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, No. 5, p. 183. A thick cream, made with thirty grmm. of bismuth, was injected into the urethra, and retained there during five minutes. Two grmm. of copaiba balsam and two grmm. of powdered cubebs were taken morning and night. The average duration of treatment in eleven cases at Valence was nine days, and in nineteen cases at Versailles fourteen days. Did AY, P.— On Blennorrhoea of the Mucous Follicles of the Male Urethra. Gaz. Hebd., vii, 45, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no, No. 5, p. 183. The gonorrhoeal iufiammation of one of these follicles considerably protracts the duration of a gonorrhoea, and may furnish a new focus o'f contagion. Diday obliterates the inflamed follicle by passing a needle as far as possible into it, shielding the glans penis with a piece of paper, and holding the free end of the needle in the flame of a candle. A slight hissing shows that the cauterization is sufficient. Behrl-ti, L.—The Treatment of Orchitis Blennorrha(/ica. G-az. Sarda, 36,37.38, i860 ; and Mlihlig, Gaz. d'Orient, iv, 8, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. no. No. 5, p. 184. Berruti reviews Dr. Timmerman's proposed treatment of this afl'cclioii with ice-cold lead wash. From the observation of many cases treated in this way, Timmerman concludes that ice-cold applications do not induce diseases in other parts of the body (ophthalmia, parotitis