HEP011T ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINK. 58 actions of the Eoyal Society,' vol. cxhi, p. i et seq^.) that ozoue is not an oxide of hydrogen, but nimply an allotropie modification of oxygon. Of the 20 cases in which ozonized oil \vu« given, in 11 the ulso was reduced more than 20 boatn a minute ; in 4, upwards of 10 cats ; in I, no effect was produced; and in i only was any permanent acceleration observed, and this could only be fully accounted for by disturbing circumstances. Of the 7 cases in whicii ozonized water was given, in .3 the pulse was lowered more than 2c beats, in 3 about 10 beats, and in i it was at one time retarded and at another accelerated. IIiLL, Dr. "W. B. (Bath),—A jew liemarhs uj)on the s%q)2)oaed Influence of Ozone on the Pulse. Ed. Med. Jouru., July, p. 41. • The author considers the influence.of ozone upon the pulse extremely doubtful. He tried the effects of ozonized oil on the pnlse in one case (pulse 130 per minute), and failed to obtain any reduction in its rapidity. Althatjs, Dr. J.—The Lithia Springs of Baden-Baden. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 23rd, p. 527. The author states that the amount of lithia which has been found in mineral waters up to the present time is very trifling ; and it is the great rarity of this substance which prevented Mr. TJre from following up his researches on it. Quite recently, however, Professor Bimsen, of Heidel- berg, has shown, by a new method of investigation (see ' Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 5), that lithia is, indeed, a substance which is most univei'sally encountered in nature. It is well known that many substances when introduced into a flame, have the property of imparting to the spectrum of the flame peculiar and brilliant rays, which are especially striking when the heat of the flame is very great and its light insignificant. Upon this fact the Professor of Heidelberg has based a method of qualitative chemical analysis which has considerably enlarged the domain of che- mical investigations, and has allowed us to solve problems Avhich were hitherto believed to be unapproachable. By means of this method Professor Bunsen discovered in the mineral springs of Durckheim two new metals, to which he has given the names of ctesium and rubi- dium, which are closely related to potassium, and are the most electro- positive substances knoAvn. Concerning lithia, the same philosopher found that its compounds give rise to two quite distinct rays, one of which is of a feeble yellow, and tlie other of a very brilliant red. By this method 150,^50 o^^^ ^ milligramme of carbonate of lithia may be distinctly traced, and one fourth of a grain of the same salt causes the red ray to continue for a whole hour. The nature of the compound in which the metal exists has no influence upon the position of the rays in the spectrum, it being the same with the chloride, the bromide, the iodide, the carbonate, the sulphate, the phosphate, and the silicate of lithia; but the intensity of the rays increases in proportion to the volatility of the compounds. Professor Bunsen has by this means discovered litliia, not only in triphylline, triphane, and petalitc, but also in a large number of feldspaths, in the granite of the Odenwald, in a common spring at Schlierbach, near Heidelberg, in sea-water, in fucus which had been carried by the gulf-stream to the shores of Scotland, in the ashes