ALKALOIDS. 429 by weiglit, which is to be applied below the umbilicus. The results stated appear to be satisfactory. Proprjlamine. Gdibert (de Louvaiii).—Ow the Chemical and Therapeutical Properties of Propyl amine. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ix, p. 60. This remarkable substance, recently introduced as a therapeutical agent by Dr. Awenarius, is an alkaline principle resembling ammonia, and is regarded as constituted of an equivalent of ammonia combined with an equivalent of propylene (NH,, + CgHg). It is a colourless, transparent, and volatile liquid,"having a penetrating smell like that of ammonia when concentrated, but recalling the smell of herring or anchovy brine. In order to obtain it, herring brine, previously rendered strongly alkaline by potash, is to be distilled. The distillate is then to be saturated with hydrochloric acid and evaporated to dryness. The crystalline mass thus obtained consists of hydrochlorate of propylamine along with sal ammo- niac, from which the propylamine salts may be separated by treating the whole with absolute alcohol, in which it is soluble. Propylamine also exists in several plants, particularly in the various species of Cheno- podium, from one of which (C. vulvaria) it may be obtained by distillation with weak solution of potash. Its presence explains the peculiar smell of stinking fish which characterises this plant. From repeated experiments which Dr. Guibert made on himself, it appears that in the condition of health the only action which the drug exercised, when taken in doses varying from twenty drops to three drachms, was that of diminishing the rapidity of the pulse. This effect was produced with great constancy in all the experiments. As regards the good effects of propylamine in rheumatism. Dr. Guibert confirms the experience of Awenarius. He recommends that it should be given in distilled water. A drachm would be a medium dose. Curare. Thieroelin.—Curare in Epilepsy. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 81. As the products imported under the name of curare differ widely in their energy, the author found it necessary, before using a new specimen, to test its strength by experiments on dogs. From a large number of such experiments he concluded that a dog weighing twelve pounds is killed in twenty to twenty-five minutes by five centigrammes of good curare well powdered and introduced into the cellular tissue of the thigh. Three centigrammes produce only transient paralysis of the hind legs, and smaller doses even less marked symptoms. In the therapeutic adminis- tration of the drug, M. Thiercelin uses the endermic method, the quantity of the powdered curare applied to the bhstered surface being three to five centigrammes. From the cases related it appears that the paroxysms of epilepsy are diminished in a very marked manner, both in number and intensity, during the exhibition of the remedy. No inconveniences re- sulted Irom its use iu any of the cases.