GENITO-XJEINAUY SYSTEM. 93 Beali:, Prof.—Lecture on Urinarij Calculi. Bnfc. Med. Journ., Jan. 5th, and succeeding numbers. The cau.se of tlie deposition of a calculus musfc not always be looked for in the cliaracters of the urine; the urine may be healthy while yet a stone is in process of formation. Deranged chemical changes in the system will not unfrequently account for the tendency to calculous disorder. Even in the purest calculi a certain amount of animal matter exists. This often serves to bind the particles together. For convenience of descrip- tion calculi are arranged in two classes :—(i) Those leaving only sliglit residue after ignition. (2) Those leaving a considerable residue after ignition. Any solid matter may form the nucleus of a calculous concre- tion. Microscopic calculi of uric acid, phosphate, and oxalate of lime, arc noted as not uncommon. Dr. Beale has seen an oxalate-of-lime calculus not larger than the ^-^jth of an inch ; he believes that small aggrega- tions of dumb-bell crystals occur first in the uriniferous tubes of the kid- ney ; b}' further addition a small crystalline mass of oval form is developed, and this, if retained either in kidney or bladder, will slowly increase in size, the material subsequently deposited upon this centre varying according to the condition of the urine. Many small uric-acid calculi which appear to be composed entirely of this substance will be found to possess a nucleus of oxalate of lime. By the action of liquor potassae on this, dumb- bell crystals may not unfrequently be obtained, insoluble in potash and acetic acid. For determining the actual character of the nucleus it is advisable to examine the smallest calculi recently passed, and, therefore, thoroughly moist. The author points out the advantage of thorough washing out of the system, by giving large quantities of fluid during a considerable period of time. The most successful results of electrolysis in tlie solution of calculi have occurred to Dr. Bence Jones, bv the use 01 a solution of nitrate of potash, and the decomposition of this by a battery of from five to twenty pairs of Grove's plates. The nitric acid set free at the positive electrode would decompose the uric acid, the pota.^sa evolved at the negative electrode would dissolve it, so that the calculus would be disintegrated at both points. Phosphatic calculi were dissolved most easily, uric acid in a slighter degree, and oxalate of lime with an action four times as slow as that of the uric-acid calculi. Jones, Dr. Hakdfield.—Cases of Baruria {eight). Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. lath, p. 380. All the cases noted presented, more or less, nerve-debility, with coinci- dent excessive excretion of solids by the urine. In ten out of fifteen cases reported by the author and Dr. Bird, unduly high specific gravity and oxalate-of-lime deposits were both present. The debility would seem to be the primary condition. This view is favoured by the benefit obtained from tonics and sedatives—speciall^^, the combination of nitric acid with opium. The exact pathology of the affection is as yet a matter of doubt. Hammoxd, Dr. William (Maryland).—Or^ Urcemic Intoxication. Ee- print from the American Journ. of Med. Sc., Jan., 1861 pp 31 The author has arrived at the following conclusions—(i) That the inject^ion of urea ni limited quantity, into the blood of animals, produces a certain amount of disturbance in the nervous .system, similar in it.s