KEPOUT ON phactical medicine. 130 ill the hospital and baths on shore was due to the transmission of con- tagious miasmata from the sick and their clothing, lie remarks that the only safety upon the appearance of sickness consists in enlarging the breathing-space to all on board to the utmost, and at ihe same time rendering the ventilation more complete, especially at night and during the hours of sleep. The dispersion of the well and unattacked is of even greater importance, in a preservative point of view, than the segregation of the sick, however right and necessary this precaution also always is. He advocates, strongly the appointment of a sanitary medical officer to supervise all vessels arriving with sick on board, and to enjoin the adoption of the necessary hygienic measures. Walkeh, W.—On an Epidemic of Typhus in the North-west Provinces of India. Ediub. Med. Journ., May. Walker remarks that typhus has generally been considered a rare disease in India. The epidemic in question prevailed extensively, and was extremely fatal, destroying often from one half to one third of the popula- tion of a village. The symptoms wei'e essentially those of a low fever, with complications affecting one or other of the visceral cavities. Dysen- tery or dysenteric diarrhoea was by far the most common sequela of the fever. No special or constant alteration was found in 104 autopsies ; in particular, the glands of the small intestine were healthy. No typhus eruption was discovered, though it would be very difficult of detection on the swarthy skin of an East Indian. The contagious character of the disease was strongly marked. BiirsoN.—On the recent hitroduction of Telloto Fever into Port Rorjal, Jamaica. Lancet, March pth. Bryson relates some very cogent evidence to show that, from one central focus, and within the space of a few weeks, yellow fever radiated in three distinct and distant directions, establishing at each point a fresh nidus of infection, capable of propagating itself to all susceptible persons coming within the sphere of its influence, and contributing another unequivocal and conclusive proof of the communicability of the disorder. BuDD.—On the Contagion of Yellow Fever. Lancet, April 6th. Budd insists on the importance of preventing healthy persons from being in any M^ay exposed to the emanations from the matters discharged either from the stomach or bowels of the sick. MiLROT, G.—Outbreaks of Yellow Fever in Ships of War. Lancet, April t3th, 20th. Milroy relates several instances, and discusses the best means to be adopted for the prevention and arrest of the disease. KiciiAUDSON.—FurMe;- Observations on Scarlet Fever. Lancet, April 6th. Richardson comes to the conclusion that the variety of type of scarlet fever is not dependent upon differences of poison, not on meteorological condition, locality, physical condition of the patient at the time of infection, age, nor hereditary taint. BoucnUT.—Pathognomonic Sign of Scarlatina, 3. de Med. et CLir. pratiq. Dublin IIosp. Ga^., May ist.