459 MEDICAL STATISTICS. reeiarcls illegitimacy, the author quotes the researches of Dr. Vogt (see above), who shows that in Bavaria the number of illegitimate births is greater than in any other country in Europe. During the years 1835 to 1844, the number of illegitimate births was to that of legitimate as i to 379,'and in the years 1851 to 1857 as i to 377. In correspondence with the frequency of illegitimacy, the mortality of children in the first year of life is excessive. From the returns it appears that, in the years 1835-44, 3i"i per cent, of the children born, died before the expiration of the first year. The morlahty of those born in wedlock was 30 per cent., and of the illegitimate 35 per cent. Vogt attributes both the high infantile death rates and the great number of illegitimate births, to the restrictions with which labour is hampered by the mediaeval trade-guilds, the difficulty of obtaining permission to marry, and other poHtical and social evils. The influence of local and other purely physical conditions on infantile mortalitv, is considered by Escherich to be much greater than has hitherto been supposed. From inquiries as to the distribution of infantile deaths in Bavaria, he concludes that the mortality under one year increases directly with the elevation, while from the comparison of different years it appears that those are most fatal to infantile life in which the temperature is highest. In confirmation of the former con- clusion, Floss has found that in Saxony, no less than in Bavaria, there is a direct relation between the elevation and infantile mortality, both in urban and rural districts. Thus, sixteen per cent, of the number of boys, and nearly twenty per cent, of that of girls, born in the highland districts, die before arriving at the age of one year, while in the low country the corresponding numbers are 137 and i6-g. Various writers have associated unusually high infantile death-rates with undue fecundity of the population. The researches of Escherich and PI0S8 afford striking evidence of the reality of this relation. From Escherich's tables it appears that in Bavaria there is a constant relation between the number born, and the proportion of those born who do not survive the first year of life. The results derived by Floss from the mor- tality-statistics of the towns of Saxony coincide entirely with those of Escherich. He found that in those towns in which the birth-rate was below twenty-three per thousand the infantile death-rate was fifty-five, while in those having a birth-rate above twenty-seven, the infantile death-rate was ninety-three. BoucHTJT.—Ore the Mortality of New-born Infants. L'Union M6d., vol. xii, p. 129. The author has made an exte»ded statistical inquiry as to the various causes of mortality among children in France. The following are some of the conclusions which he adopts. At the present time only i in 6 of the children born in France die during the first year ; the proportion was formerly i in 4. The mortality is somewhat greater of boys than of girls, and greater among the poor than the rich. The exposure of young children to cold in winter, in carrying them to the "mairie" (for registration) and to churcli, is a fruitful source of early death. Of found- lings, reared in tlie country, 11 per cent, die during the first ten days, and 55 per cent, in the first year. This enormous mortality is considered