3d0 REPOaT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Part III.—DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. GENERAL TREATISES, HYGIENICS, FEEDING, STATISTICS, ETC. QEHUi.Rm\—Text-book of Diseases of Children. Tubingen, i860, Laupp, pp. 320. BouciiUT.—r/ic Laws of Infantile Mortality. Gnz. des Hop., Oct. 29111, 1861. VoOEL.—Manual of the Diseases of Children. Eriangen, i860, pp. 592. Bakiiier.—Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Infancy, based on larye clinical experience. 3rd ed. Paris, 1861, pp. 720, 736. Gerhaudt.—Manual of the Diseases of Children. Tubingen, 1861, PP- 501- Little, Dr.—On the iiifluence of Abnoi-mal Parturition, Difficult Labour, Premature Birth, and Asphyxia Neonatorum, on the Mental and Physical Condition of the Child, especially in relation to deformities. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. This is an essay, the doctrines propounded in which are based on a large number of observations and cases; the latter are given fully and in a tabulated form. The object is to show that, during the period of birth, very serious and peculiar evils are occasionally imprinted upon the nervous and muscular systems of the nascent organism. Premature birth, difficult labours, mechanical injuries to the head and neck where life is saved, and convulsions following the act of birth, are, the author believes, and as he has on former occasions asserted, apt to be succeeded by what he terms "spastic rigidity." He has met with probably 200 cases in orthopaedic practice, of spastic rigidity or paralysis from tiiis cause. At the moment of birth, the placental circulation-having ceased, if pulmonary respiration be not directly established, " asphyxia neonatorum" follows, and necropsy has proved in many instances the presence of ecchymoses on the serous surfaces, intense internal congestions, blood extravasationr in the cranial cavity, in the sinuses, beneath the membranes, &c., and these results independently of mechanical injury. When death does not occur and the infant survives, these conditions having been present, spastic rigidity, paralysis, or even idiocy, may result. This spastic rigidity is an impairment of volition, with tonic rigidity and ultimate structural shortening of certain muscles. In the forty-seven cases of persistent spastic rigidity appended, some abnormal circumstances had attended the act of parturition or the process of birth. The presence of convulsions also after birth was frequently noted. In one case only was opportunity afforded by post-mortem examination for confirming the position taken up, and for ascertaining the condition of parts when spastic rigidity was present. The anatomical conditions expected to be found would be—atrophy of the brain, chronic meningitis with effusion, chronic meningeal hypersemia or myelitis. This was confirmed by what was observed in this single case. The author next proceeds to trace the connexion between these accidents during birth and other atfec-