4.55 FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. TuoussEAU.—On sudden and irresistible determinations, in their relation with epilepsy. L'Uiiion, vol. ix, p. 540. If a man has committed a murder without motive, purpose, premedi- tation, or passionate emotion, in a state of sobriety, and in the view of all—that is to say, in the absence of all those conditions under which murders are commonly perpetrated—M. Trousseau would be prepared to aver that the impulse to the crime must almost certainly have been the result of an epileptic seizure, even if he had not witnessed such seizure. If the act has been committed immediately after an epileptic seizure, attested by credible persons, the medical witness may assert positively that the impulse was irresistible. M. Trousseau cites numerous remarkable cases, showing that sudden and irresistible impulses, under which acts are committed which may or may not have important results, occur frequently during the minor epileptic attack {petit mat), or after the convulsive paroicysm; and that such acts are accomplished without the agent's knowledge, and are not remembered by him. The tempo- rary suspension of free will, renders him for the time irresponsible for his acts. Casper.—Question of real or feiyned Insanity of eleven years* duration. Casper, vol. xx, p. i. A youth of eighteen, who had committed several robberies, was con- victed of the crime of rape, under circumstances which brought his sanity into question. The investigation lasted for eleven years, during which period he was removed from one prison or asylum to another, and no less than twenty official medical reports were made on the state of his mind, most of which agreed in the conclusion that his insanity was feigned. The question was finally referred to the Royal Scientific Com- mission for Medical Affairs, who revei'sed former decisions, founding their opinion on the following facts, viz., persistent silence, lasting for fifteen months; continued exposure of his body, without covering, to cold, although clothing was within his reach; vigilance kept up night after night; complete rejection of food ; swallowing of dirty water in preference to clean, or of hard and unnutritious substances; frequent attempts to commit suicide by venesection ; no betrayal of himself on recovering from drunkenness or after inhalation of chloroform ; duration of all these symptoms for so long a period (although the subject of them, if sane, must have known that simulation was only lengthening the time of his im- prisonment) ; and, finally, the existence of unquestionable delusions. LoWENHAKDT.—Not Pyromauia, in the true sense of the word, but still absence of responsibility, in a youthful ittcendiary. Medico-physical opinion us to the mental condition of the youth A. C. S. accused of several acts of incendiarism. Henke, part 2, p. 240. A youth, set. 17, set fire, on four several occasions, within a period of forty days, to buildings. Dr. Lowenhardt was called upon by the district court to give an opinion as to the state of mind of the criminal at the times at which these crimes were committed. Four other experts were called, who held that the prisoner was in such a state of mind as to be responsible, while the author stood alone in the opinion, that although he was capable of comprehending the nature of his acts, his responsibility