383 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Artificial help -was generally necessary to complete the delivery, the di- latation of the 08 uteri taking an unusually long time. Reduction of prolapsus during pregnancy should always be attempted and usually succeeds. Pessaries to retain the uterus in situ are to be used. In no case did the use of a pessary bring on premature labour. If reduction cannot be effected, a suspensory bandage to be worn. If strangulation occur, premature labour to be artificially induced. Attempt to reduce prolapsus occurring during labour succeeded six times. Incisions of the os uteri are necessary in a certain proportion of cases of the latter kind in order to expedite delivery. Meissneb, E. a.—On Rheumatism of the Gravid Uterus. Mon. f. Geb., July, 1861, p. 39. After a preliminary historical examination of the subject, the author relates a case which came under his observation, the subject of which was a patient aged twenty-four. Tbe affection is, he believes, a sensorial and motorial neurosis of the uterus produced by peripheric irritation of cold. The case was treated by repeated warm applications to the abdomen, and small doses of ipecacuanha and opium. PiGEOLET.—On Peritoneal Dropsy as a complication of Pregnancy, Journ. de Brux., Oct., i860. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 52. The prognosis in such cases is very much more unfavorable when the effusion occurs at the early part of pregnancy for the first time. The general ti-eatment indicated depends on the condition causing the dropsy. Tapping may become necessary as a local measure. The several methods of performing this operation are then described. Gauchet.—Idiopathic Contraction of the Extremities during Pregnancy. L'llnion, 98, 99, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 55. Liz^.—On the Lumbo-abdominal Neuralgia of Pregnancy. Gaz. dea Hop., April 23rd, 1861. EXCESSIVE VOMITING IN PIIEGNANCY. Turner, Dr. W. M.—On Vomiting in Pregnancy; considered especially in regard to Etiology. Am. Med. Times, March i6th, 1861. The pressure exercised by the gravid uterus on the blood-vessels is, the author believes, the cause of the vomiting. Perkin.—Case of Irrepressible Vomiting due to the presence of a "Mole degeneration." L'Un., Feb. 1861, p. 444. Ferrand.—On obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. L'Uuion, 58, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 197. Two cases are related in which cure followed, in one case application over the stomach of Vienna paste and tincture of iodine, and in the other of moxas. AuBENAS.—Case of obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Gaz. de Strasb. 6, i860. Schmidt, vol. 109, p. 197. * In this case artificial abortion was induced, but the patient died the operation having been, in the author's estimation, too long deferred. '