KEPOllT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 4-28 Kurzfik administered citrate of coffein to rabbits and frogs. In rabbits doses of less than 2-7 grains produced no perceptible effect, four grains produced marked effects, and six grains were fatal. Death, however, did not take place for several hours (thirteen hours after doses of ten grains). The effects were as follows :—(1) Exaltation of excitability, at first imper- ceptible, subsequently manifesting itself in increased susceptibility to slight stimuli, in a terrified manner and in excessive restlessness; (2) the heart's action was accelerated from 160 to 240, and remained excited for some time afterwards ; (3) after large doses the respiration was retarded, from 64 to ,32; C4) the temperature of the body was scarcely altered ; (5) tlic pupils were unaffected ; (6) as the case advanced, voluntary mus- cular movement was diminished. Death was preceded by tetanic spasms. In frogs the results were somewhat different. The respiratory move- ments were at first accelerated, but became retarded after the first hour, and in four hours had become imperceptible ; life, however, continued for one or two days; Tetanic spasms occurred in an hour, and were induced in great intensity by the slightest stimulus for some time afterwards. Voluntary movements ceased after four hours, but slight reflex actions could still be induced, even on the second day. Veratrine. NiVET and Giraud.—Cases of Poisoning by Veratrum Album. Gaz. Hebd., vol. viii, No. 31. Three members of a family of villagers suffered at various periods Id the months of August and September, i860, from severe symptoms of irritant poisoning; two of the cases were fatal, the third recovered. In the most severe of the former the symptoms were—burning epigastric pain, acid ructus, vomiting and purging, with bloody and dark-coloured evacuations, tenesmus, emaciation, anxiety and prostration, without delirium or other synoptoms referable to the nervous system. Portions of hellebore root were found in the house, and on chemical examination of the liver, heart, pancreas, and intestines, evidence was obtained of the existence of an alkaloid, probably veratrine. £las.—On a case of Poisoning by Veratrine. Verb. d. naturf. Ges. in Freiburg, vol. ii, p. 173. A child, set. 3I, took from six to eight ounces of a decoction of the root of Helleborns albiis, prepared for the destruction of lice in cattle; an infant, set. ii, took a smaller quantity. Both children recovered ; the symptoms were as follows :—Vomiting of an acid liquid containing half-digested food with yellow mucus; countenance pale, head hot, but general surface cold; pulse small, slight convulsive twitches of the limbs, dilated pupils, eyes staring, with revolving movements of eyeballs. The vomited matters yielded, on extraction with alcohol and evaporation, a yellow substance, which possessed the physiological (investigated by administering it to dogs and cats) and chemical (sulphuric acid with bichromate of potash) characters of veratrine. Vannaire.— Veratrine in Dysjnenorrhoea. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 67. The author uses an ointment containing one hundredth part of veratrine