141 GENERAL SYSTEM. r^^^^XY,—Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Journ., June ist. Budd trusts, in the matter of treatment, to Beaufoy's undiluted solution of chlorinated soda applied to the affected part three or four times a day ^4h 'nnct. Ferri Munat. 5s8 4tis horis, and a generous diet. 'Ihe chief pit in his communication is that he insists strongly on the con agious iiature of diphtheria, and the importance of adopting all possible pre- cautions to prevent the disease being communicated to healthy persons by the excretions from the affected parts. Livingston, R. n.—Diphtheria and its Treatment. Amer. Med. Journ., Li^n^'sfon^ distinguishes between a sthenic and asthenic form of the disease, and directs his treatment accordingly. He is sure it is contagious. Clakk, a—Lectures on Diphtheria. Amer. Med. Times, March 23rd, 30th; April 6th, 13th, 20th, 27th ; May 4th. Clark describes the false membrane as consisting of cells and granules, imbedded either in a woof of fibrils or in an homogeneous medium. The vegetable spores found in it he regards as accidental productions. The disease, after it had prevailed some time, no longer commenced regularly with acute symptoms, but often very insidiously. Death in some cases ensued from prostration apparently of the heart's power, the general muscular force not being much impaired. The occurrence of paralysis is illustrated by various examples, and it is shown that apparent amaurosis mav really depend on paralysis of the adjusting muscular apparatus. Clark thinks that precautions should be used against the communication of the disease by contagion. The age at which diphtheria is absolutely and comparatively most fatal is from three to ten years, the mortaUty increases from the first to the third year, and diminishes after the tenth. Clark strongly opposes the tendency of the French writers to consider true croup and diphtheria as the same disease. He also separates the latter from scarlet fever. The plan of treatment is to support the system till the peril passes by. Of tlae eflficacy of local applications he is doubtful. Eddie, W. H.—On Diphtheria and its associated Diseases, as they ap- peared at Barton-upon-Humber and the neighbourhood in the years 1858 and 1859. The character of the disease varied much; even in the same family one member would have it very mildly, while in others it was most malignant. In some cases death ensued in a few hours from complete prostration of the vital powers. In some heemorrhage took place from the throat, and destroyed life. At its commencement the disease seemed intimately con- nected with scarlatina, but subsequently the distinctness of the two affections was very apparent. One form of the disease Eddie terms the cutaneous, from the occurrence of eruption on the skin, either as large buUte or ecthymatous pustules. Another form presented the phenomenon of purpura, petechiae on the skin, and blood in the stools and urine. Paralysis occurred as a sequel in some cases. The usual treatment was adopted. Newman, W.—Diphtheria, Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 14th.