31 REPOllT ON TIM INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. unmlMfcalceal)le parallel between the several stages of the embryonic braiu in man, aud the persistent forms existing in some classes of apes. In the human kind, the anterior lobes are those in which the convolu- tions diller most widely in different individnals, being few and simple in some, in others numerous and complicated. Either of these classes may coexist with high intelligence, but the former is most frequently met with in women. (.3) The relative Aveight of the cerebral henn- spheres in comparison to the other parts of the encephalon would not seem to be greater in high, than in ordinary, intelligences. Van Deen, J.— The Insensihilili/ of ilio Cerebrospinal Centres to Electric Irritation. Moleschott's Untersuch., vol. vii, pt. iv, p. 380. Canst., vol. i, p. 193. On a former occasion the author experimentally demonstrated that chemical and mechanical irritation of the spinal cord do not produce motory or sensory effects, so long as the nerves are avoided. He now communicates a series of equally careful experiments on the effects of the electric current on the encephalon, medulla oblongata, and spinal cord; the conclusions deducible from which are, that those centres are insusceptible of irritation by that agent, and that their activities are only to be awakened by the stimuli of will and feeling. LirsCHKA.—The Fo vcce Glandiilares and Arachnoiclal Villi of the Middle Cranial Fossa. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xviii. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. Having noticed fovese glandulares in the middle fossaj of the skull, the author sought and found in the dura mater corresponding Pacchio- nian granulations, which he believes occur there only Avhen the mem- brane is reticulated, and receives them in its meshes. Mexee.—On the Import of the Pacchionian Ciranulations. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. After numerous obsei-vations, this inquirer states that: (1) The Pacchionian granulations are constantly in connexion with the arachnoid even when found on or in the dui-a mater, in which case they are pedi- culated. This view is based on numerous aud precise examinations, and is opposed to that of Luschka, who maintains their independent existence in the dura mater. (2) The bodies in question may be found, though less certainly than at the margins of the cerebral falx, {a) on the convexity of the anterior lobe so far as two inches from the falx ; (h) at the base of the middle lobe, commonly anteriorly, less frequently postero-laterally, by the meningeal vessels: sometimes at these spots penetrating the dura mater and inner cranial plate, and generally attended during life by profound cerebral disturbance, as epilepsy, melancholia, &c. ; (c) at the postero- and autero-inferior parts of the posterior lobe, where they are feebly developed, as they also are (rf) on the cerebellar arachnoid, especially at the margins. In discussing the ailiolocjy of these bodies, the author assumes that in cerebral au£emia, the sinuses of the dura mater are increased, in hyper- lemia, diminished, in calibre; changes which imply, on the part of the encephalon, a certain degree of locomotion, Avliich, as in the lungs, attains its maximum at certain points, such as the margins. On inquiry,