llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 312 VlTENOT, R. \.— 0n the iiijluencc of the r^inatmi of A/wospherirj I'ressure on the Kuvmn Orguaism. Viix-how's Archiv, vol. p. 492. Canst., vol. i, p. 109. According to tho results of the author's inquiries— I. Biminution of atmospheric irressure, (i) augmenting evaporation and oxidation, accelerates respiration and the pulse; (2) drives the blood to tho circunirerence; (3) weakens the cohesive power of the joints; and (4) diminishes the secretion of urine. II. Auiimentcdpressure, again, so far as appears from rejjeated observa- tions made on lour delicate-chested young persons in Nice at a pressure of \l atmosphere (i) slackens the pulse, on an average, ten beats, the redue- tion continuing an hour or two after return to the ordinary atmosphere; (2) also renders respiration less frequent by the mean quantity i-i—eflects which diminish by repetition ; (3) lessens evaporation; (4) increases renal secretion ; and (5) forces the blood from the surface, Moffat, Dr.—Loss of Colour of Ozone Test-papers. Lancet, April 20th, ^ p. 391- The author found that iodine test-papers in sick rooms lost their colour more rapidly where the beds had curtains than where the beds were without them, and more rapidly in the bedrooms of fever patients than of others. In one of the experiments test-papers were hung in a house where there were two cases of fever. One of these cases assumed a diphtheritic character. Papers were suspended in each room, and in the apartments occupied by the family. In the apartments occupied by the fixmily the paper lost a shade in forty-eight hours, that in the room of the milder case of fever was lighter, whilst that in the room of the diph- theritic patient was bleached nearly to whiteness. Remak.— On the JEndogenott^ Origination of the Cells of Pus and Mums. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xx, p. 198. Canst., vol. i, p. 27. Abandoning a view long and strenuously advocated by him, this histolo- gist is now persuaded that, like all other cells destined to become free, those of pus and mucus originate from the contents of the mother-cell, independently of the original nucleus. Clinical observation leads him to the conviction that pus-cells may arise both in epithelial and connective- tissue cells, and that even in non-purulent blennorrhcea, mucus cells are formed within epithelial cells. ToEDOS, M.— On the nature of Blue Pus. Lancet, Feb. 23rd, p. 203. The Paris correspondent of the ' Lancet' states, that M. Fordos has lately attempted, and with success it would appear, to ascertain the nature of the principle which gives to the pus of certain abscesses a blue colour. This principle has been supposed by some chemists to be a modi- hcation of the green colouring-matter of the bile, or of the bluish ingre- dient occasionally detected in the urine; but Fordos maintains that it has no connexion with either. The means by which this gentleman has succeeded in isolating this principle is as follows. The linen stained with the peculiarly tinted pus is soaked for several hours in water, to which a small quantity of solution of ammonia has been added. A liquid of a light bluish-green hue is thus obtained. Chloroform is added to the solution, and the blue principle, together with the yellowish foreign