238 EEPORT ON SURGERY. denum (Poland, vol. iv, 3rd series). la a chapter on hernia Bryant states " that inguinal hernia is by far tlie commoneet form of hernia; that half the cases of strangulated hernia are of this nature, and that of these one only in every three requires operative relief, the large pro- portion of two thirds being reducible by the taxis." lie alludes to a former paper (18156), in which this form of hernia was shown to most frequently appear between the ages of twenty and forty, and to most often become strangulated between forty and sixty, the average dura- tion of the rupture previous to strangulation being twenty years. Arranging his cases in two classes, the first containing those reduced by the taxis, and the second comprising those requiring herniotomy, Bryant shows that 3-8 per cent, of the first class ended fatally. In all cases of strangulated hernia of long standing he advocates the imme- diate employment of chloroform. 52 per cent, of the cases which were operated on died. The mortality where the sac was not opened was 22 per cent.; where it was opened, 60 per cent. Herniotomy is most successful in congenital hernia, about two thirds recovering. Half the cases of old hernia recover, but an operation is mostly fatal in recent hernia. Femoral hernia is less common than inguinal by 74 per cent.; it is far more liable to strangulation than the latter, and, when strangulated, 73 per cent, of the cases require operation. At least one fifth of the cases of strangulated femoral hernia are recent, and these are 50 per cent, more fatal than older cases; for though the taxis in recent cases is generally successful, yet herniotomy is more than twice as fatal as it is in old cases. The advantage of operating without opening the sac is proved by a large per-centage in its favour. Hilton.—A Course of Lectures on Fain and the Therapeutic Infiuence of Mechanical and Physiological Best in Accidents and Surgical Diseases. (Delivered in the theatre of the Eoyal College of Sur- geons.) Lancet, Jidy 6th, p. 3 ; and following Nos. PmcHAED, A.—Ten Tears of Operative Surgery in the Provinces. Brit. Assoc. Journ., Jan. 5th, p. 10; 12th, p. 32; Feb. i6th, p. 165; April 13th, p. 383. PmcHABD, A..—Operations on the Eye. Brit. Assoc. Journ., May 18th, p. 518 ; June 15th, p. 625 ; July 27th, p. 85. Walker, T. J.—The Qalvano-caustic Apparatus: its applications in Surgery. Brit. ]\ted. Journ., April 20th, p. 409 ; 27th, p. 437. A description of Zsigmondy's apparatus, with a figure, and mdications for its use. Amongst other examples, a case of amputation of the thigh is given, where death took place on the fifth day. The wound was black, dry, and without any sign of reaction. EsMAKCH, Dr. Fk.—O/i the Employment of Cold in Surgery. Archiv flir Chir., vol. i, part 2, pp. 275—333, Berlin, 1861. ^ For a translation of this valuable memoir see ' Selected Monographs, published by the New Sydenham Society during the current year. Zeis 'Ed>—Permanent or prolonged Local Paths in various Local 'Diseases. Bvo, Leipzig and Dresden, Winter, i860, pp. 43.