863 DISEASES OP WOMEN. Tilt, Dr. —On the Treatment of Uterine Inflammation hy Nitrate of Silver and other substitutive agents. Laucet, Feb. 23rcl, 1861, p. 183. The author here discusses the treatment of uterine iufliimmation by- caustics, and lays down rules as to particular cases. He does not con- sider nitrate of silver a caustic at ail. Applied in dilferent ways, this agent is generally sufficient for the treatment, but in a certain number of cases the stronger are necessary. The author specially alludes to hypertrophy of the cervix as one of the conditions requiring " stronger caustics." Tilt, Dr.—On the Treatment of Uterine Inflammation by the Acid Nitrate of Mercury, Potassa fusa cum Calce, and Potassa caustica. Lancet, April 27th, 1861, p. 407. The author uses the Potassa fusa cum Calce in the majority of cases ; in a few cases the Potassa Caustica is considered necessary. The curative effect of the strong caustics is dependent on the healthy inflammatory action they set up. Tilt, Dr.—On the Dangers attending the use of Potassa fusa cum Calce and of Potassa caustica. Lancet, June 8th, 1861, p. ^56. The dangers alluded to are,—acute inflammation of the womb, flooding, pelvic abscess, partial or complete retention of the menstrual fluid, owing to agglutination of the opposite lips of the os, production of bridles of nodular tissue in the walls of the vagina, perforation of the vagina. These have resulted from the use of Potassa fusa cum Calce. These acci- dents occur, it is contended, only in very exceptional cases, and the author defends tiie use of this caustic on the ground that he feels obliged to try to cure patients by stronger remedies when milder measures fail. The author states that it is his belief that in most of the cases brought forward as instances of the injurious effects of caustic treatment, the Potassa caustica itself had been used. RoKiTANSKY, Prof.—Acute Tuberculization of the Puerperal Uterus ; Tubercles in the Ovaries. Wien. Med. Ztg., 21, i860. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 61. Tubercle of the uterus originates in the mucous membrane. Not rarely it shows itself on the site of the placenta after the cessation of the puer- peral process. It is not unfrequently primitive, but more often secondary. A case is related of a woman, set. 34, who, having miscarried at the eighth month, died three weeks afterwards. The uterus was the seat of acute tuberculization; lungs tuberculous. In another case related the ovaries were tuberculous. NEUEOSES ; SYMPATHETIC AFFECTIONS OF UTERUS. Tilt, Dr.—Ore the Treatment of Sickness in Uterine Inflammation and in Diseases of Menstruation. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author believes that nausea and vomiting are especially observed in connection with affections of the lining membrane of the uterus, as in- ternal metritis, whether chronic or acute, whereas these symptoms are rare if neck of uterus alone affected. Continued nausea is more fre-