EEPOUT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 462 results which have been arrived at:—Inflammations 'of tlie lungs prevail in winter, increase until May, and decline rapidly from the end of that month until September. In Vienna the deaths from piithisis, which form a third of the whole mortality, increase from the beginning of winter until May, in which month they attain their maximum. Typhus never entirely disappears ; it prevails epidemically most in the winter months, but appears to be much more dependent on overcrowding than on atmospheric conditions. FucHS.—The Epidemic Diseases of Europe in their relation ivith the phe- nomena of terrestrial magnetism, loith changes in the condition of the atmosphere, and with the history of the civilised races of this hemi- sphere. 8vo, Weimar, i860, pp. 151. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 124. This work is an attempt to trace epidemics to those natural processes which are in daily operation around us, and exert a constant influence on our existence, instead of to the hypothetical or mystical causes to which Buch diseases are frequently attributed. The author divides epidemic diseases into (i) those dependent on continuous cold, among which he enumerates, besides catarrh and influenza (the former of which is the cause of sixty-seven per cent, of the deaths in the north of Europe), the febris nervosa lenta, that form of continued fever which is peculiar to high latitudes—and (2) those dependent on continuous heat in which are included dysentery, yellow fever, cholera, plague, and remittent fever. The 3rd section is devoted to the diseases peculiar to Europe, the climate of which partakes of the peculiarities of many other parts of the world. The author observes that in the west of Europe the majority of mankind die of diseases consisting in the deposit of albumen in the tissues (tubercle, scrofula, &c.), to which he therefore proposes to apply the term leuco- meccritical. The sea climate of these countries is characterised by abundance of fog and rain, mild winters, and moderate summers, which conditions are associated, as causes favouring albuminous deposits, with the use of food rich in albumen, as compared with the fatty diet of the Esquimaux or the farinaceous diet of the negro.' In the east of Europe a dry, continental climate prevails, and the most fatal diseases are those which he comprises under the term hseraatoseptic, including scurvy and septic fever. In this region tubercular diseases are rare. The views of the author are exhibited in a chart, in which the distribu- tion of the various classes of diseases is shown. The whole subject is illustrated by a great number of interesting geographico-medical facts, overlooked by previous authors, but of great importance as forming the basis of the new science of medical meteorology. RiGDEN.—The Meteorology of Canterbury, in relation to its vital phe- nomena. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. ii, p. 147. Mr. Rigden's conclusions are founded on a comparison of the statistics of mortality of the town, with the records of meteorological observations during a period of seven years ending i860. Each unhealthy season appears to have been "attended, at least at its commencement, by more than the average fall of rain." Unusually low temperatures in winter, spring, or summer, and high temperatures in autumn, have been associated with high death-rates. In unfavorable seasons the prevailing