87 XKRVOl'S SYSTEJr. between the sympathetic aud cerebro-spiual syistem of nerves arc more apparent than real. Modern pliysiology has shown that no absolute distinction exists between them, ibr tl)o sympatlietic, like most of the other nerves, originates in the spinal cord, and although it possesses ganglia, these ganglia cannot be viewed as distinct nervous centres. Indeed, according to Bernard, the nervous system contains only two great divisions—sensitive and motor nerves ; it matters little whether the subject is conscious of their action or not, their properties in both cases being identically the same. The sensitive apparatus is endowed with consciousness in tlie cerebro-spinal system, and does not enjoy this property in the organic nerves; but the difference is not an absolute and unconditional one ; for the -\ iscera frequently acquire a high degree of sensibility in acute diseases, and, on the other hand, the cutaneous surface, in paralytic subjects, is totally insensible to external impres- sions ; that is to say, the feeling of pain no longer exists, but the reflex actions which are still produced, inform us that the sensitive nerves still retain a part, at least, of their usual properties. "With respect to the motor nerves, Bernard's experimental researches have led him to distinguish two kinds of these; the first being destined to reduce the capacity of the vessels, the second to increase it. The former is derived from the sympathetic nerve, while the latter springs from the cerebro-spinal axis. To those of the first class he gives the name of vaso-motor nerves; we know them, in fact, to produce con- traction in the vessels by acting upon nniscular elements; but tlie powers of the antagonist system are infinitely more difficult of com- prehension ; it appears to stimulate the dormant activity of the tissues to which it sjireads, creating secretion in glands, contraction in. muscles, and phenomena of a different nature in other parts. Whether the nerves which give rise to these effects, and those Avhich dilate the vessels are identically the same, is a matter of doubt. The contraction in muscles, and secretion in glands usually coincide with a turgid state of the capillaines ; but these phenomena are not inseparably con- nected ; the circulation of a muscle may be accelerated, withoiit giving rise to contractions, and contractions may take place without exerting the slightest influence on the local circulation. The same being the case in glands, it may be questioned whether these various effects are all produced by the same class of nerves. The system of organic life appears to confine its action to the vessels. But the reciprocal influence of sensitive and motor nerves in the cerebro-spinal apparatus is too well known to reqiiire a proof, nor is it to be supposed that reflex actions are confined to the voluntary nerves. The vaso-motor appa- ratus equally enjoys this important property. The influence of cold on vascidar contraction evidently belongs to this class of phenomena; for on dividing on one side the cervico-cephalic branch in animals subjected to the process of congelation the eflects of cold are immediately felt on the non-mutilated side, and are slow in making their appearance on the other. The sympathetic nerve may be viewed as a complementary apparatus placed by the side of the cerebro-sjiinal system. Both are derived from the same origin, both enjoy similar properties, but the elements on which their action is exerted are of a different nature.