335 UNUSUAL LOCALITY OP PEBGNANCY. the stunted cornu of which projected through the inguinal opening, and became pregnant and fixed in the sac of the hernia. Chessman, George.—On a case of Extra-titerine Gestation, continuing, without suspicion of Pregnancy, to the full term. Lancet, Sept. 14th, 1861, p. 250. . This -svas a case of tubal gestation. The patient was a woman aged forty, who had had four children ; the last eleven years previously. The case" had been treated as one of dropsy of the abdomen. Death took place at (probably) eleven months after conception. The foetus was found in a firm cyst, perfectly distinct from the uterus ; the placenta was involved in a dilatation of the left Fallopian tube. The uterus was the size of a child's head ; its walls 2\" thick; its lining membrane presented a cou- o-ested appearance, and the uterus was pushed down towards the right side of the pelvis. Fetid gas and a large quantity of grumous fluid were found in the abdomen. The foetus had apparently lived to the full term. Davis, Dr. Tuos.—A case of Extra-uterine Fcetation, of eight years and three months' standing, counting from the expected period of delivery ; the foetus removed by operation. Dublin Med. Press, Dec. i8th, 1861. The foetus lay to the left side below the umbilicus. Here an abscess formed and burst, opening by two sinuses. The woman was much emaciated and hectic. Recovery followed the operation. The woman had been delivered of a healthy child, the dead child being still in the abdomen. BiRNBAUM.— On Abdominal Pregnancy, and especially on the Internal Hemorrhages connected therewith ; loith cases. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861, p. 331. Two cases are related, in which, death having occurred, the condition of the parts could be carefully examined. Walter.—Cases of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. (With drawings.) Mon. f. Geb., Sept., 1861, p. 171. Three cases are related—(i) Primary ovarian pregnancy, secondary ventral pregnancy. (2) Case of abdominal pregnancy. (3) Graviditas extra-uterina ? tubaria? or tubo-nterina? HiNK.—Case of Pregnancy attended by extraordinary symptoms (cer- vical gestation). L'Un. Med., Jan., 1861. Adams, John.—A Case of Gastrotomy for Extra-uterine Gestation. Med.- Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. i. (See Year Book for i860, p. 341.) Levy, Prof.—Extra-uterine Pregnancy, with adhesion of the sac to the intestine. Bibliot. for Laeg., i860, p.316. Schmidt, vol. iii,p. 321. SiDEY, 'Dr.—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Ed. Med. Joura., July, 1861, p. 88.