UEPOET ON SUEGEEY. 802 "Wells considers want of success to be attributable to three causes— (i) The performance of the operation in cases for which it is not suitable. (2) Imperfect performance. (3) Want of precaution in the after-treatment. Wood, J.—Clinical remarks on a case of radical cure of Hernia; modified mode of operatiw/. Med. Times and G-az., June ist, , P-578. In this case Wood used wire instead of thread, than which it causes less pain and less discharge. Clement, B. A.—Wufzer's operation for the radical cure of Hernia; tmsuccessful. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 42. Chisholm, J. J.—A new operation for the radical cure of Hernia. Amer. Med. Times, Eeb. 2nd, p. 79. Wood's original operation, with the omission of his scrotal incision, and the passage of the thread once instead of twice through the inner column. Chisholm uses silver wire, twists the loop tight, and cuts off the ends close to the skin. The loop remains permanently buried in the tissues, and in cases where it had been tied had caused no irri- tation. Bbowne.—Two cases of Wiitzer^s operation for the radical cure ofredu- cille Hernia. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June 15th, p. 181. In one case this operation is reported to have been completely suc- cessful. Injimes and Diseases of the JRectum. Demabquat.—The Treatment of Heemorrhoidal Tumours hi/ the Cautery and hij linear ecrasement. Gaz. de Paris, 41, 42, i860. Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 109, No. 4, p. 75. ' Demarquay regards the application of the cautery to haemorrhoids as a real progress. He does not burn off the pile, as Eoger did, but merely passes the hot iron a few times over its surface, so as to produce a superficial eschar. A recorded case shows, however, that this plan of treatment is occasionally followed by pyemia. When internal haemor- rhoids have protruded, and cannot be replaced in consequence of great swelling, Demarquay recommends the subcutaneous division of the sphincter ani. When the internal piles protrude in waUiing or on making any exertion, and when the sphincter loses its tone, and the mucous membrane of the rectum, or the rectum itself, comes down, so that tlie tumour cannot be replaced, or if replaced, will not remain up ; when the mucous membrane is swollen and vascular, and has a fungous aspect, and secretes a bloody mucus; then tlie cautery is preferable. When, on the other hand, piles only protrude on defecation, remain do\vn for a while, bleed, and tlien can be replaced; when the sphincter is not relaxed ; when the mucous membrane of tlie rectum is not prolapsed ; linear ecrasement is indicated. The removal of too great an extent of mucous membrane leads to cicatrization and contraction of the rectum.