nEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 412 Chevalier, De Luynes and Deveiwie.—Death of a Policeman conse- quent on the impnideiil %isc of two ounces of Nitrate of Potash as a purgative. Ann, d'llyg., vol, xv, p, 400, Earthy Bases. HoMOLLE.—On the therapeutical application of Sulphate of Alumina and of Double Sulphate of Alumina and Zinc. Journ, de Pharm,, vol, xxxix, p. 289, Homolle describes minutely the preparation of these two salts, and their use in concentrated solution as external applications. He has employed them in affections of the cervix uteri and in pharyngitis, and describes their action as intermediate between that of detergents and caustics. He has also used them with great success in cancer. Chromium. Lange.—Chromic Acid as an application io Conical Condylomata and Warts. Deut, Klin., No, 32, i860. The author used chromic acid in thirty-two cases of conical condy- lomata, of which twenty were associated with primary syphilis or flat condylomata. In most instances several applications were necessary. The main advantage of this over other caustics of equal efficacy consists in comparative painlessness of its application, Ogston.—Poisoning by Bichromate of Potash. Brit, and For, Med.- Chir, Rev., Oct., p. 492. Zinc. Falck.—Investigation of the actions of the Soluble Salts of Zinc. Deut. Klin., 45, 47, 49, 52, i860; and 2, 6, 13, 28, 1861, Schmidt, vol, 112, p. 18, ' All or nearly all of the author's experiments relate to the acetate of zinc, which he gave in strong solution to rabbits and pigeons, and found that in that state it is an active, ^irritant poison, resembling in its effects other metallic irritants. From other experiments it appears that acetate of zinc produces a permanent precipitate in milk, but that the precipitate which it determines in solution of albumen is dissolved in excess of the precipitant. For this reason it is recommended to give milk in preference to albumen in cases of poisoning by salts of zinc. Poisoning by Chloride of Zinc.—Pharmac, p. 584, Von Veiel.—On the external application of the Chloride of Zinc. Wien, Ztsch., vol. xvii, parts 3 and 8. The author uses chloride of zinc in alcoholic solution (equal parts of rectified spirits and chloride of zinc), in acid solution in water (i in 50), or in the solid form, as a stick (prepared by pouring the fused chloride into moulds). Its advantages are as follows :—it combines with all the elements of the tissues, particularly with the albuminous compounds, and by its stimulant action induces contraction of the neighbouring