NERVOUS SYSTEM. 41. first effect of tlie application of cold is the iuductiou of a state of liyper- festliesia in the course of the nerve. (2) The hyperajsthesia is suc- ceeded by aufesthcsia. (3) The hyperacsthesia is associated Avith increased excitability of the nerve ; the anaesthesia with paralysis. (4) In the paralytic condition tlie muscles remain contracted to some extent, and tlie inner fingers in a state of flexion. (5) The temperature of the inner part of the hand rises; tbat of the outer falls,—on account of the diversion of part of the blood of the radial into the ulnar artery. ^loiESCHOTT, Prof., (Zurich).— On tlie Nerves of the Heart. Med. Times and Gaz., July 27th, p. 94. From a series of experiments on the vagus and sympathetic nerves, the author has arrived at the conclusion that the inhibitory theory is untenable. He found, for example, that, on applying a weak mechani- cal, chemical, thermal, or electric stimulus to the vagus, the pulse rose considerably. Amongst the mechanical stimuli stretching appeared to be most eftective, as it can be easily graduated by the employment of different weights ; but friction and pressure also yield the same results. The chemical stimuli used were salt water, the bile of frogs, and the desiccation of the nerve ; tliese latter had the mo.st considerable eftect of all, as, on applying salt water to the vagus of a rabbit, the pulse rose from 166 to 231; that is, 65 in tlie minute, or two-fifths of the freqiiency observed during repose ; and on touching the vagus of a frog with frog's bile, the piilse rose from 18 to 40 (more than double). Thermal irritation caused an increase of one-eleventh in the rabbit (from 224 to 244); of one-ninth in the frog (from 36 to 40). The electric stimulus produced an acceleration amounting to two-ninths (from 190 to 232) in the rabbit, two-fifths (from 30 to 42) in the frog. In the frog a more powerful stimulus is generally necessary to eftect such results than in the rabbit. The frequency of the pulse is also in- creased if the vagus has been cut through, and the peripheric end of the nerve excited. The increased frequency is, therefore, no mere reflex; phenomenon caused in the cerebro-spinal centre, nor, if the central end of the nerve is excited, does the pulse become quicker. The excitation shoiild generally last from fifteen to thirty seconds if the ex- periment is to prove successful, and in many cases a considerable alter- ation in the heart's action is observed long after the excitation has ceased. Pulsus dicrotus is sometimes couseqneut upon a long-con- tinued excitation of the A-agus, after which the whole of the ^-entricles contract with two intermissions. Moreover, he found that while a feeble excitation of the sympathetic accelerated the pulse, a stronger electric excitation of the nerve dimin- ishes its frequency, and may even bring the heart to a temporary stand- still. "When the excitation ceases, the heart and the nerve may* recover from their exhaustion, so that, if a feeble current is afterwards applied, the frequency of the pulse may again be augmented. The sympathetic nerve has, therefore, the same influence upon the heart as the vao-us. Moleschott concludes from his experiments that the heart is animated by four very excitable nerves which may easily be over-excited; these foub nerves, two vagi and two sympathetics, have a peculiar consensus, ft