llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 136 sprung regartis Waller's experiments as quite affirmatively decisive. The opposite opinion rested on experiments made with soft-chancre secretion, which does not infect. Syphilis, as n rule, like the exanthemata, occurs only once. Admitting the rapidly curative action of mercury on almost all syphilitic symptoms, as one of tlie most striking tiierapeutic pheno- mena, Biirensprung has, nevertheless, abandoned its use. He avows that syphilis can be thoroughly cured without mercury, while under its use the disease is often rendered latent for months and years, and its complete cure delayed. Mercury also deteriorates the constitution and favours the development of destructive local affections. The non-mercurial treatment, in short, is slower, but surer. Starvation and Zittmann's decoc- tion are the means he employs. Syphilization he thinks inadvisable. Barton, J. K.—Case ilhistrating the power of Pot. lod. to remove the Symptoms of Tertiary Syphilis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Sept. and. Barton advocates the use of large doses of Pot. lod. in cases of obstinate character. PoLAK.—Oti the Use of Mercury as a Remedy for Syphilis in Persia. Wien Med. Wochenschr., 36, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. p. Polak obsei-ved—(i) that after some stay in warm climates, a large quantity of mercury can be taken without apparent injury to the consti- tution ; (2) that the bad consequences which have lately been ascribed to mercury are greatly exaggerated; (3) that mercurial inhalations are one of the most rapidly effectual means of administration, and highly recom- mendable ; (4) that in warm climates syphilis, for the most part, can be radically cured; (5) that an individual thoroughly cured by mercur)-, though still bearing the scars of syphilis, may, beget or bear quite healthy children. Hoffmann (Bayer Aerzt. Intell. Bl., 17, i860). Sigmund, K. L. (Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 51, i860). Fieber (Wien. Ztschr., N. F. iii, 36, i860). Paul (Jahresb. d. Schles. Ges. f. vaterl. Kult, xxxvii, 1859). Fronmuller (Wiirzb. Med. Ztschr., i, 6, i860). Kaltscher (Berlin, i860).—On Syphilization, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, P- 53- Hoffmann attempts to compare smallpox and syphilis. Sigmund states his experience of fifteen cases, which goes to show that syphilization is inferior to other curative measures ; it causes the disappearance of the symptoms, and improves the general health, but does not prevent relapses. Sigmund agrees with Paul, that when the successive inoculations have ceased to produce any effect, results are again obtained when the inocu- lations are resumed after a certain interval. Fronmiiller warmly advo- cates syphilization as a specific against constitutional syphilis, and Ka- lischer seconds him. Jeltschinsky (Leipsig u. Heidelberg, i860). Monigetti (Med. Z(g. Russl., 47, 48, i860). Kaminsky (Med. Ztg. Russl.,48, i860).—On the Cure of Syphilis by Vaccination. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. m, P- 55- ..... Jeltschinsky does not consider vaccination as a specific in syphilis ; it