351 OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. ■which, however, the child was not, as in the first case, extracted alive. The first case, which originated a long series of discussions before the Academy of Medicine as to the duty of performing the operation, is here again related DIMINISHING THE SIZE OF THE CHILD. S?oiiT)Ll.—On Perforation and Cephalotripsy. Mon.f.Geb., March, 1861. The cases of cephalotripsy here and in a former paper (Mon. f. Geb., May, i860) recorded are ten in number. In all but one perforation was employed previous to cephalotripsy ; in this case there was spontaneous perforation. The cranioclast of Simpson the author considers vastly inferior to the cephalotribe. Martin, Prof. E.—On the various methods of Diminishing the Size of the Child's Head in Delivery. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1861, p. X03. The operations are to be divided into two classes—(i) those in which the head is simply perforated, the rest of the delivery being left to nature; and (2) those in wliich further efforts are necessary to effect delivery. The respective merits of Van Huevel's " forceps-saw," by which the head can be cut in two—of Cohen's instrument, which is a strong forceps, adapted for at once diminishing the head and extracting it—of Simpson's instrument, by which the bones can be broken up—and of the cephalo- tribe, by which strong compression is exercised — these are severally discussed. Kristeller.—Forceps vnth Dynamometrical Apparatus. Mon. f. Geb., March, 1861, p. 166. The instrument is supplied with an ingenious apparatus, by means of which the exact amount of tractile force exercised by the operator is indi- cated, and the operator enabled to ascertain whether the traction he is using is such as is considered justifiable and proper. Further, by means pf the instrument, the operator will be enabled to judge of the respective indications for the forceps or the cephalotriptor. Chassagnt.—On a Forceps with Sustained Traction and Progressive Pressure. Gaz. Hebd., March 8th, 1861. The apparatus consists of a peculiarly constructed forceps, by which compression is exercised, and a contrivance by means of which, using the inees of the patient as fixed points, continuous traction can be employed. vViNCKEL, Franz.—Mesnard's Cranial Forceps advantageously used in the extraction of the Head after perforation in Osteo-malakial Pelvis. Mon. f. Geb., April, 1861, p. 392. The author relates a case in which this instrument was found very Useful, and its more extended application is recommended in certain cases ')t pelvic deformity. 5INCLAIR, J)i-.--Some practical observations on the timely use of the Ob.ftetr,c Forceps. Dub. Quart. Journ., Aug., 1861, p. 60. ihe expectant line of practice is still too often, in the author's opinion, mrsued, and the rules laid down by some of the best authorities on this