STJBIECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Ill it is generous; (a) the excretion of urea and sulphuric acid is less, that of phosphoric acid is more, increased by activity when the aliment is im- perfectly azotized than when it is rich in azote; and (3) in the former case uric acid is absent, in the latter it is invariably present. III. The fifth series discloses (i) the remarkable fact that with several hours' sweating daily during a period of repose the person gains more weight than he does in conditions otherwise identical, but without stimu- lated perspiration ; (2) under the former circumstances the proportion of the urinary ingredients is not disturbed, except that the chloride of sodium is diminished and the uric acid is increased ; (3) excretion is greatest by night, with the exception of that of uric^acid. IV. (i) The mean daily temperature of the body is lowered by exertion, but somewhat raised by sweating. (2) Respiration is less frequent during rest, and is less accelerated by labour, when the food is poor than when it is rich in nitrogen. (3) Sweating slackens the respiration, but throughout the day quickens the pulse. (4) The mean frequency of the pulse is retarded by exercise, but quickened by continued rest. (5) A given amount of labour causes far less waste of the hydrocarbons when the diet is abundantly than when it is scantily nitrogenized, thougb even in the former case their consumption greatly exceeds that of the azotized matters. (6) With the perspiration little solid matter except potash is removed, but less urea is formed during the day, whence probably the increase in weight. LlEBEBiiEiSTEE.—Physiological inquiries on the Quantitative Changes in the prodtiction of Seat. Arcbiv f Anat. u. Phys., i860, pp. 520, 529. Speck.—Some JExpeHments on the influence of Cold Plimge Baths on the Temperature of the Body. Archiv f. gem. Arbeiten, i860, p. 422. Canst., vol. i, pp. 17, no, in. Liebermeister confirms by a new series of experiments the results of his former researches (see 'Year Book,' vol. ii, p. 131), showing the enormous increase in the production of animal heat on exposure of the surface to cold. He states that a bath at a temperature between 70° and 85° mul- tiplies the production of warmth three or fourfold, and that exposure of the naked body to air between about 55° and 70° increases calorification by about one half Speck's observations, so far as they go, are confirmative of Liebermeister's law. Hatjghton, Dr. Edwaud.—TAe Turlcish Bath. Brit. Med. Journ., March pth, p. 267. So high a temperature as 150° or 160° can only be borne with impunity when the air is dry. The dryness of the air necessitates the increase of temperature. WoLLASTON, Dr. R.—T/je Turkish Bath. Brit. Med. Journ. Feb 2qrd p. 211. > • O ) States that 150° or 160° will be found the best heat for the sudorific chamber and that a preparatory temperature of 110° in the first room is absolutely necessary.