REPORT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA SUSDICA. 438 factory evidence of ergot, derived from the structure of the cells and the reactions of ergotine. Richtcr, in the very extended remarks with which the case is accompa- nied, points out that the appearances of inflammation of the mucous mem- brane of tlie stomach were probably rather attributable to the quantity of undiluted tincture of cinnamon exhibited as a remedy than to the ergot. RiCKER.—-Cwse of Poiso7unff by Bread containing Ergot. Nass. Med. Jahrb., vols, xv, xvi, p. 748. Schmidt, vol. m, p. 25. A family of six persons partook of bread containing ergot. They all suffered from the same symptoms, viz., dryness in the throat, epigastric oppression, nauseous taste, mucous and biliary vomiting, vertigo, stupor, and diarrhoea. These symptoms disappeared in two day8°undcr an evacuant treatment. JOEET.—Ow the properties and therapeutical uses of Croton Oil. Bull de Ther., pp. 385, 441. Pendleton.—Po2soH% by Tansy. Amer. Medical Times, No. 11, 1861. TA.1&NEA.V.—Treatment of Tcenia by Pumpkin Seeds. Journ. de Pharm., vol. xxxix, p. 383. RiGAUD.—On the same subject. Ibid., vol. xl, p. 62. Brydon.—Case of Recovery from an overdose of Croton Oil. Edinb. Med. Journ., Aug., p. 134. Waring.—On Hydrocarpus odoratus and Hydrocotyle Asiatica as remedies in Leprosy, Scrofula, and Secondary Syphilis. Pharmac, vol. ii, 141. Appleton.—Pom?i% from Mnanthe Crocata. Brit. Med. Journal, vol. i, p. 292. ORGANIC CHEMICAL PRODUCTS. BYiEELEY.—Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 474. A man, set. 44, committed suicide by taking an unknown quantity of cyanide of potassium. The body was examined by i\Ir. Byeiley three days afterwards ; the external surface of the stomach was of a " deep-red chocolate colour." Its mucous membrane was " intensely dark red (almoftt black"). The rugae were prominent, and there were two or three patches of abrasion. There was a well-marked odour of prussic acid. Davanne.—Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. Journ. de Brux.. vol. xxxiii, p. 93. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 169. A photographer used a bit of cyanide of potassium to rub on a stain pro- duced by nitrate of silver. In doing so he accidentally introduced some of the cyanide under his nail, where it remained. In order to alleviate the .smarting, he washed his hands with vinegar, when, in consequence of the disengagement of prussic acid, he was affected with extreme vertigo, shivering, pallor, impairment of vision, general weakness, and impediment of speech, without any affection of intelligence. Cold affusions, sti-