DISEASES OF WOMEN. 559 shonld be considered as certain signs of onanism :—(a) as regards external sexual organs, gaping condition of the vulvar aperture, clitoris red and swollen and strongly prominent, nymphse swollen and assuming a wing- like form, vaginal aperture intensely red, hymen lax or torn ; (6) as regards internal sexual organs, chronic metritis, ante- and retroversion or flexion of uterus, descensus uteri; these changes having been observed in certain girls, set. 12—15, suspected of the practice in question. The discussion of the subject occupied several meetings of the society. A commission was appointed to report on the subject; the report, on being brought up, was discussed, and the society finally resolved on a reply to the questions put, which was to the efi'ect that—(i) the appearances of the external generative organs alluded to could not be considered as positive signs of the practice of onanism, inasmuch as they might be produced by other causes ; and (2) that in the present state of knowledge it cannot be held as proved that the alterations of the uterus described as present was produced by onanism. Beatty, Dr.—Plastic Operations on the Female Genito-urinary Organs. Dublin Quart. Journ., May, 1861, p. 273. Six cases are related, one of operation for laceration of periuseuni, three for vesico-vaginal fistula, and two for prolapsus uteri. GuEKiN. — Clinical Lectures on the Venereal Diseases of Women, and on the Diseases in general of the Female Sexual Organs. Med. Oirc, July loth, 17th, 24th, 1861; Aug. 7th, 21st, 28th; Oct. 30th. Chambebs, Dr. — Clinical Lecture on Systeria. Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 2ist, 1861, p. 651. The cases of three patients form the basis of this lecture. The author concludes that hysteria is a disease aa much of the mind as of the body; that the mental phenomena preponderate in some cases, in others the bodily; that moral or physical treatment must be applied accordingly ; that in the moral treatment the chief object should be to teach the patient to exert the will; that the organ which most aids us in the physical treat- ment is the stomach. Barclay, Dr.—On SysteHcal Mania. Lancet, April 20th, 1861, p. 391. The case of a lady, set. 27, is here related, in which there were slight paralysis, fits, convulsions, and mania. The nature of the affections pre- sent is commented on. Bonnes.— Hysteria, treated and cured by prolonged Etherization; trials of Hypnotism. Gaz. des H6p., April 30th, 1861. Gairdneb, Dr. W. Epidemic of Hjsteria in a Reformatory Insti- tution; Hysterical Mania from a severe Mental Shock; moral treatment of such cases. Clinical Lecture. Lancet, May 4th, 1861, p. 429. Engelmann.—On the Mineral Waters of Kreutznach in Affections of the Uterus and Ovaries. Journ. de Brux., Sept., 1861, p. 250.