339 4 TJNNATTJUAL PRESENTATIONS. in three dead. The Inboiir was terminated by natural process in six cases, forceps used once, in one case craniotomy. Veit.—0« the varieties in the Position of the Foetus in Premature and in Twin Births. Scanz. Beit., vol. iv, p. 279. One conclusion come to is that the death of the foetus has an influence on its position ; cranial presentations are less frequent in the case of dead than in live foetuses ; this is, perhaps, owing to the compressibility of the head in the former case, allowing the extremities to sink down by its side. In cases of twins the first child is much more rarely in an unusual position than the second. Braun, Prof.—On a very unusual event in Twin Birth : simultaneous presentation of the Feet of one and of the Head of the other Foetus. Allg. Wien. Ztg., 1861, i. Schmidt, vol. in, p. 192. The difficulty occurs when, the pelvic extremity of the first foetus being delivered, the two heads lock. The author relates a case in which this happened, and refers to thirteen similar recorded cases. In five of tiiese the second child was first delivered naturally; in five the second child was first delivered by aid of the forceps. In one case the second child was decapitated ; in one case the head was perforated. All the rest were delivered by manual assistance. The author believes the proper treatment to be to rupture the membranes of that child whose head presents ; if both heads present, to rupture the membrane of the lowest, and apply forceps. If the heads become hooked together as above described, to apply the forceps to the head of the second child ; craniotomy of the head of the second child only necessary when there is narrowing of the pelvis or unusual size of the head. MuKKAY, J. Jardine.—Impeded Labour from Dorsal Displacement of the Ann. Med. Times and Gaz., June 15th, 1861, p. 627. The difficulty alluded to consists in the forearm of the child being thrown across the back of the head and neck, the arm being thrown up- wards in a line with the body. The displaced elbow forms a projection which hitches on the brim of the pelvis. A case is related in which the difficulty occurred. Podalic version was performed, and the case did well. Demeaux.—Note on Shortness of the Cord as cause of Abnormal Pre- sentation. Gaz. des H6p., Feb. 9th, 1861. Jacobs, Henuy.—Difficult Positions of the Head in Twin Labour. Lancet, June Slh, 1861, p. 566. The head of the second child was impacted between the pelvic brim and shoulder of the first. By holding the second head up for a time the shoulder of the first was permitted to advance. The labour was there- upon completed. CREQEtiK, Dr.—Difficult Position of the Head in Twin Labour. Lancet May 4th, 1861, p. 446. '