185 CIRCULATOllY SYSTEM. opening of this was a hole traversing the septum and leading into the left ventricle. The margins of this hole were surrounded by cicatrix- tissue. Ba5[berger.—O/! the Position of the Heart in Pulmonary Emphysetna. Wurzb. Med. Ztschr., vol. i, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, p. 77. Bamberger maintains the view he formerly expressed regarding the horizontal position of the heart in emphysema, notwithstanding the objections raised by Klob {v. 'Year Book' for i860, p. 191). In many cases during life he discovers a weak pulsation a little more to the left or lower down than the usual site of the heart's impulse, as well as the usual more perceptible pulsation in the epigastrium. In cases where this is absent he supposes the covering borders of the lungs, or the thoracic walls, are too thick, or the heart's action too weak. Long needles intro- duced into the epigastrium and the site of the weaker pulsation pierced, the former the right ventricle near the right auricle, and the latter the left ventricle near the apex. Depression of the diaphragm, he argues, must necessarily induce a horizontal position of the heart. MiiHLiG, H.— Cases of Pericarditis. Gaz. d'Orient., iv, June, July, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 188. Miihlig relates six cases, four of which recovered well with blisters, diuretics, and purgatives, and states his preference of a symptomatic and expectant treatment to venesection and mercury. Gairdner, W. T.—On Pericai'ditis. Edin. Med. Journ,, Jan. Gairdner, as the result of six years' experience as hospital physician in Edinburgh, has come to the conclusion that the principles of the safe treatment of pericarditis are as follows :—(i) To make large allowance for the insignificant and spontaneously healing class of cases, revealed moi'e by physical signs than by symptoms, and to reg.ard them as demanding little active treatment. (2) To consider rheumatic pericarditis, in general, as a disease susceptible, to a great extent, of cure under mild palliative local remedies and fitting constitutional treatment. (3) To hold the constitutional treatment as subordinate to that of the disease with which the pericarditis is associated. Ringer, S.—On the influence of Change of Posture on the characters of Endocardial Murmurs; with an attempt to explain the causes. Edin. Med. Journ., Feb. Ringer finds, as a rule, that endocardial murmurs are louder, harsher, and lower pitched in the lying than in the sitting or standing posture. He relates experiments wliich lead him to believe that the cause of the difference is the blood being then impelled with greater force. Meissner, H. —Om Thrombosis and Embolia, especially of the Cerebral Vessels. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 89. After some remarks on the connection between embolia, metastasis and eepticscmia, Meissner proceeds with the details of his subject. He states that an embolon is, in the great majority of cases, formed within the vessels, either out of constituents of the blood or from pathological pro-