KEPOKT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERIA MEDICA. 442 trntioii, with occasional shivering, and in one case (that of a boy, aet. 13) shght convulsive movements of tlie limbs, with occasional delirium. The question here arose, whether the symptoms were referable to the existence of solanine in the potatoes (supposing them to have been sprouted), or to the stale broth. In a third example five persons, who had partaken of some dumplings fried in stale fat, which had been kept in an earthenware pot, experienced very similar symptoms to those above detailed. They recovered without treatment. Boyd.— Caseof Adder-bite. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., p. 324. FoNSSAGiiiVES and Leuoy de MliRicouRT.—On the Poisonous Fish of Tropical Countries, Ann. d'Hyg., vol. xv, p. 326. POISONOUS GASES. Letheby.—Fatal Accident in the Fleet Lane Sewer. Lancet, May i ith. In February four men were killed by asphyxia when working in the Fleet Sewer, That their deaths were due to sulphuretted hydrogen cannot, in Dr. Letheby's opinion, be disputed; but the question, how so fatal an impregnation of the air of the sewer was produced, remains undetermined. Ordinary sewer air contains only a trace of the gas in question, whereas one or two per cent, would be necessary to endanger life. In consideration of the well-known fact, that the addition of acids to the mud of sewers gives rise to the disengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen. Dr. Letheby is disposed to attribute the accident to the disengagement of some acid refuse product into the sewer, although no evidence could be obtained that such discharge had actually taken place. In conclusion, the author recom- mends that workmen exposed to air contaminated with sulphuretted hydrogen should wear Dr. Stenhouse's charcoal respirators, " charcoal having the power of oxidizing that gas and rendering it inert." Death from Carburetted Hydrogen. Pharmacy vol. ii, p. 43. A family of six persons (mother and five children) were found one morning apparently dead in the underground dwellings which they inha- bited. The sufferers were removed to hospital, where the usual restorative means were employed with success, so far as relates to the children ; the mother remained insensible till her death.