EEPORT ON SUEGEEY. 812 around tlio veins teu days previously, he cut the ends of tlie loopH short oft', and allowed the skin to heal over them. Pajtcoast.—Hydrocele; tapping; clinical remarks. Philadelphia iled. and Surg. Eep., Peh. i6th, p, 534. CiUTCUETT.—Inpcino-scrolal Tumottr of riijhl aide. Brit. Med. Jouru., Oct. 5th, p. 351. CoLLis, M.—Case of Rcemorrliacjic Fibrinous Tumour of the Testis. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March ist, p. 67. A section of this tumour shortly after removal showed a number of cysts filled with lymph and coagula; the latter seemed to be the result of small hiemorrhages into the substance of the testis. Stme. J.— Abdominal Hydrocele. Brit. Med. Jouru., Ang. loth, P- 139- A boy, set. 4, was brought to Syme labouring under wliat appeared to be incarcerated, if not strangulated, inguinal hernia. A bandage had been worn between two and three years. The scrotal swelling suddenlv enlarged, and the belly became distended. There was some constipation. The abdominal swelling, though large and tense, left a small space, in which the intestines possessed their natural laxity, and from this Syme diagnosed a hydrocele. Dividing the scrotal tissues layer by layer, he found that the fluid was in the cord, and not in the tunica vaginalis testis. The abdominal part of the tumour did not immediately empty itself, but after two or three days drained oif, at first clear, but after- wards turbid with lymph. EocuARD, Dr. J.—On Smmatoceles of the Tunica VayinaUs, which have ascended through the Inguinal Canal into the cavity of the Abdomen. L'TJnion, loi, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb.,^vol. iii, No. 8, p. 194. A detailed account of a case of this kind. The scrotal portion of the tumour was oval, and reached downwards to the lower third of the thigh ; it commuuicated by a cylindrical prolongation in tlie course of the inguinal canal, with a second swelling within the cavity of the belly. This reached upwards to the uavel, stretched to the right across the middle line, and lost itself in the bottom of the left iliac fossa. The patient, set. 51, had, six years before, had a clap and swollen testicle; he also had an inguinal rupture of the same side. The hsematocek' began suddenly, and was of nine months' duration. The treatment con- sisted in repeated tapping and injections of iodine. Ievine, Dr. H.—Case of Medullary Carcinomu of the Testis. Dublin Hosp. G-az., Jan. 15th, p. 21. Betant.—Medullary Cancer of the Testicle of remarkably rapid growth ; amputation; recovery from the operation. Lancet, Aug. loth. The tumour is said, in sixteen weeks, to have grown to the size of a newly born infant's head. The cord appeared to be free from disease. The patient recovered from the operation.