■pOOVj JfEDICINE, AST) POISON. 53 from c-hloroform we ought to rely almost wholly on the state of the pulse. AVhcn the pulse is good, dyspnoea may, to some extent, be dis- regarded, but if the pulse shows signs of failing, the condition is to be regarded as one of danger, and the chloroform ought instantly to be Avithdrawn. ' KiDD, Dr. Charles.— (i) CMoroform Accidents. Brit. Assoc. for Adv. of Science, and Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. aSth, p. 341. (2) Eules for guidance in Chloroform Accidents. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. ^th, p. 362. The respiration as well as the pulse should be attended to in all cases of accident. There is now no reason to doubt that cardiac syncope is a mere accident. Death has been found to arise in animals from tetanic fixing of the respiratory muscles in the early stages of chloroform administration; to meet tliis danger, those means which imitate or assist respiration should be put in practice. Tracheotomy is doubtless a very severe remedy, but should never be lost sight of in accidents from chloroform. In the second communication Kicld says that, as to resuscitation, the means adopted at first should be as gentle as possible; a candle-'svick gone out is to be blo^vn in, not smothered by the nimia dilir/entia. Fanning the patient with cold, fresh air is of the first importance; the hands dabbed with cold water, which has a powerful influence in exciting the brachial and heart nerves. Too much cold water is not advisable. The patient should be brought at once into the open air, if summer, or into a very warm room, if winter; turned on his right side; the soles of the feet and interior of the ear tickled with a pen; his left arm held up, smacked with a wet towel, and that axilla and side of the chest dashed Avith cold water; then artificial respiration tried by " up and down " pressure rather than " rotations." Two or three needles next stuck where the omo-hyo'id lies at the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid, so as to hit, if possible, the phrenic nerve; then the vioist pole of a Faradization apparatus applied over the part or along the spine, the other pole being inserted under the floating ribs. It is probable, the author imagines, that in the milder cases, the previous measures will succeed, especially in the instances of apnoea; but if, after five minutes' trial, little progress is made, then tracheotomy is to be performed, and a small tube (a No. 10 india-rubber catheter) passed, and air gently bloAvn into the lungs (a large tube causes emphysema). Some anunonia and warm water should be thrown into the rectiun. In syncopic cases injection of warm water with a little soda in it into a vein may arouse the heart. In apnoea (asphyxia as regards the licart, the right cavities gorged) opening a vein is useful. These measures should be continued for at least from foin- to six hours, the body kept warm by hot blankets, in a semi-recumbent position, and the batteiy, gases, and impure air rigidly excluded ; even pure oxygen gas is to be avoided. » PrTHA, Prof—0« tJie Anmthetic Effects of Belladonna. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 3rd. The foreign correspondent states that in a case of incarcerated hernia recently operated upon by Professor Pitha it was found that neither