871 DISEASES OE WOMEN. DISEASES OF THE OTABIES. Meadows, J)r—Inguinal Hernia of the Right Ovary successfully treated by Operation. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. Corse, Dr.—Fungus nematodes, involving the Ovaries and Uterus, at the age of twelve years. Am. Med. Juurn., Jan., 1861, p. no. BoECKEL.—On Menorrhagic Cysts—a variety of Ovarian Cysts. Gaz. de Strasb., 1861, 5. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 47. Under this title the author distinguishes a tumour resulting from ovarian disease conjoined with obstruction in the Fallopian tube, the Graafian follicles emptying themselves into the ovarian cyst. The tumour so found incre?ises in size at the menstrual periods. A case is recorded in which a large tumour supposed to be of this character existed in the left ovary. Bertrand.—Case of Ovarian Cystic Disease tapped thirty-three times. Mon. f. Geb., Nov., 1861. The patient had been under treatment nine years, and then died. She was forty-eight ye.irs old when she first came under treatment. LowENHARDT.—Death after injection of an Ovarian Cyst with Iodine. Mon. f. Geb., Oct., i860, p. 241. The cyst was a large, simple one. The fluid allowed to remain four or five minutes only. There was much pain from the first moment of injection, and death took place in fourteen hours. A small quantity only of the injected fluid was found in the fluid external to the cyst. Death is attributed to the shock to the nervous system. Davies, Dr., and Curling, T. B.—Case of Ovarian Dropsy, treated by the Injection of Iodine; subsequent evacuation into the rectum, Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 9th, 1861, p. 143. Wells, Spencer.—Ovarian Cyst, luhich pi'oved fatal by spontaneous rupture. Trans. Path.Soc, vol. xii, p. 155. Hunter, John.—Report of a case of Ovarian Disease combined with Pregnancy ; tumour got rid of by discharge from the bowel. Lancet, Jan. 26th, 1861, p. 83. Barry, Dr. Milner.—OyarzawDz-o^wy; rupture of the Cyst internally; case. Med. Times and Gaz., July 13th, 1861, p. 30. Bristowe, Dr.— Ovarian Tumour ; discharge of contents into Abdominal Cavity ; condition of Peritoneum simulating Colloid Cancer. Trans. Path. Soc, vol. xii, p. 150. The left ovary was much diseased, and contained several cysts, some of which had become ruptured, others ready to rupture; the abdomen con- tained much jelly-like matter. The author takes occasion to observe that there is, contrary to what is usually supposed to be the case, a great tendency in ovarian tumours to undergo spontaneous rupture, and that such rupture is exceedingly common. N^laton, Prof—0»i Ovariotomy. L'Un., Nov. 30th and Dec. 7th, 1861. Nclaton describes in a clinical lecture the operation of ovariotomy as