HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 463 ■svinds liave been north, north-east, and east; in favorable, south, west, and south-west. Ransome.—On Atmospheric Pressure and the Direction of the Wind in relation to Disease, especially Hcemorrhages and Neuralgias. Lit. and Phil. Soc., Manchester. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. i, p. 592. Angus Smith.—On the production and prevention of Malaria. Lit. and Phil. Soc, Manchester. Chem. News, vol. iii, p. 173. Malaria, according to the author, has been proved to be caused by the decomposition of organized bodies; putrescence, and consequently alka- linity, of the soil are the necessary conditions of its production. The author believes that by the addition of ammonia to soil sufficiently moist, putrescence, and thereby malaria, can be produced, and that by the addition of true antiseptics, of which carbolic or phenic acid is the type, it may be destroyed. DWELLINGS. ScHAKLiKG.—On the purification of the Air in Dwellings. Hyg. Medd. og Betragt., vol. i, p. 31. Henke, part 3, p. 63, 1861. Scbarling has made numerous experiments on new applications of charcoal as a disinfectant and deodorant—not only to remove the offensive smell arising from animal excreta, but those from culinary and other domestic processes. In the sick room he recommends the exposure of perfectly fresh charcoal in boxes, the effect of which in removing smells he finds to be immediate and decisive. BowDiTCH.—On Coal Gas. Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xi, p. 2^. The author has discovered that bisulphide of carbon, and other similar compounds containing sulphur, which all purifying methods have hitherto failed to remove from gas, are converted into sulphuretted hydrogen, and consequently rendered easily separable, by passing it over hydrate of lime at temperatures varying from 300 to 400° Fahr. It is understood that tlie invention will be adopted by gas companies. HOSPITALS AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Acad£mie de M£decine.—Unhealthiness of the Hospitals of Paris as compared with those of other countries. Bull, de I'Acad., passim. On the lath of November, i860, a report was presented to the Academy on a ' Memoire' of M. Le Fort, relating to the operation of resection of the hip-joint, by M. Gosselin, in which he drew attention to the hi^h mortality which accompanies this and other surgical operations in Paris as compared with London. This led to a discussion, in which the most distinguished of the hospital surgeons took part. M. Malgaigne held that the Paris hospitals were, as regards their sanitary condition, "the most detestable in Europe." An opposite opinion was energetically main taiued by MM. Davenne and Bonnafont. The unhealthiness of the