137 GENERAL SYSTEM. has no dynamic or chemical action on the poison. It provokes a general reaction in the body, and rouses the dormant powers of the system to contend with the poison. Monigetti thinks Jeltschinsky's procedure severe, inefficient, and somewhat dangerous. Kaminsky defends vacci- nation. A. Guerin, the reporter of a French commission to investigate the question, considers the antisyphilitic power of vaccination as a myth. ViENNOis.—On Syphilis from Vaccination. Gaz. des Hopit., Sept., i860. Edin. Med. Jouru., Jan. Vaccination of a person in whom syphilis is latent may cause the de- velopment of constitutional eruptions. Vaccination of a healthy person with lymph from a syphilitic, unmixed with blood, produces only the vaccine vesicle. But if the lymph be mixed with blood, syphilis is also communicated, and appears at the point of inoculation in the form of an indurated ulcer resembling true chancre. SlGMUND.—On the use of Sarsaparilla in Syphilis. Wien. Ztschr., N. F, iii, I, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 45. Sigmund has tried sarsaparilla carefully in recent and chronic gonor- rhoea, in primary syphilitic ulcers, in secondary ulcers, and eruptions in disease of the throat and periosteum, and comes to the conclusion that this remedy, used by itself alone, does not exercise the slightest demon- strable influence on the course and issue of these various forms of disease. Zittmann's decoction he finds to act quite as beneficially when the sarsa- parilla is omitted. Lauber and Kraxjs.—Cases of Secondary Syphilis. Bayer. Aerztl. Intel]. Bl., 52, i860. "Wien. Ztschr., 24 and 31, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb,, vol. no, p. 47. ^ Lauber's case is a striking instance of the curative effect of mercurial inunction. Kraus's refutes the notion that secondary syphilis is the result of mercurial treatment. Galligo.—On Syphilis. Gaz. Hebd., vii, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 306. Galligo does not think that Ricord's views can be adopted as invariably true. Thus he affirms that a soft chancre may be followed by syphilis, and a hard chancre (untreated) by none, that bubons d'emblee may be followed by constitutional syphilis, that gonorrhoea may in rare cases give rise to syphiHs, and that secondary affections may in exceptional cases be communicated. Hekmann, Jos.—Report of the Patients treated during the year 1858-59171^6 Syphilitic Wards of the Vie7ina Infirmary. Spital Ztg., 1-9, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, p. 306. Hermann makes out that the non-mercurial is mucli more speedy and successful than the mercurial treatment; that no relapses occur ; that cuta- neous eruption is much more frequent and severe in patients'who have taken mercury ; that serpiginous ulcers, pustules, and bullce, general glandular enlargement, periostitis and caries, alopecia and cachexia, are not the results of syphilis, but of mercury. In eighty-four cases 146 analyses were made to find whether mercury was present iu the system