120 IIEPOIIT ON PIUCTICAL MKDICINJ5. In five cases the temperature was found to increase on the day of, or the day before, death. In two of these the maximum was attained three and eleven minutes after the last breath. TiioussEAu.—0« Contagion. Gaz. des H6pit., No. 133, i860. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 67. Trousseau contends for the existence of infectious germs of disease, analogous to seeds, and seems to believe in the dissemination of disease by their agency rather than by miasmata. FoKSTER.—On Osteo-malacia in Cancerous Patients. Wurzh. nied. Ztschr., ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 17. Forster relates four cases in which there was probably primary cancer of the vertebral column ; in one of these every vertebra, from the atlas to the last lumbar, was infiltrated and softened. He states that osteo- malacia, independent of cancer, is very rare in persons who labour under the latter disease. FoRSTEB.—iJ?ionHOM5 Gvowth of the Ependyma in Chronic Internal Hy- drocephalus, tvith remarks on the formation of Pus in the Ependyma. Wlirzb. med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 113. Tuberculous Peritonitis e.vcited by Tuberculous Inflammation of the Fallopian Tube, with remarks on 2'iiberculoiis Inflammation, and on Pus Formation on Serous Mem- branes. Ibid. On the Pathological Anatomy of large Tubercles occurriiig in the Brain. Wiirzb. med. Ztschr., vol. i, p. 128. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 20. In two cases of suppuration of the ependyma Forster found that the pus-corpuscles were not developed from the epithelium, but from the mono-nucleated connective-tissue-corpuscles, which multiply by division. In the case of inflamed serous membranes the' pus-corpuscles appear to be developed both from the epithelial layer and from the superficial con- nective tissue, but not from amorphous exudation. He admits, however, that the epithelium in some parts remains normal, and that tlie changes in it seem scarcely extensive enough to account for the formation of the quantity of existing pus. On mucous surfaces covered with pus the superficial layer of cylinder epithelium is, for the most part, quite un- altered, but in the deeper layers multiplication of nuclei and division of cells goes on. The new cells thus formed are pushed upwards to the surface between the normal cells. In tuberculous inflammation of serous membranes there is partly a new formation of connective tissue with vessels, in the form of villi, threads, pseudo-membranes, and thickening, and partly a development of cells and nuclei from the normal and new- formed connective tissue, out of which proceed both gray miliary tuber- cles and cheesy infiltration. Large cerebral tubercles appear in most cases to be formed, not by a conglomerate of small miliary ones, but by a more uniform mass, surrounded by a soft, grayish zone, which Forslcr regards as the primitive tuberculous new formation, as it contains the young, fresh elements of tubercle. Meyer.—On the Corpora Amyloidea of the Animal Body. Virch. Archiv, vol. xix, p. 230. Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 20.