OBSTETUICAL OPERATIOIirS. 353 The autlior strongly recommends the following procedure instead of that ordinarily adopted. After the birth of the child, friction over the fundus uteri, at first gentle, then more forcible, to be employed, and as soon as the uterus is felt contracted it is to be grasped by the whole hand and slow pressure made downwards. This procedure is followed by the im- mediate expulsion of the placenta, without necessity for introduction of the hand or traction on the cord. PiiiESTLEY, Dr.—On the treatment of cases of Abortio7i in lohich the Membranes and Placenta are retained. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The author, after stating that obstetric authorities differ widely as to the treatment which ought to be adopted in such cases, and particularly as to the propriety of manual interference, goes on to state the conclusions he has arrived at. Cases are related to show the danger to the patient of allowing the placenta or membranes to remain in cases of abortion, these dangers and inconveniences being flooding, decomposition of the uterine contents, leading to inflammation, phlebitis, phlegmasia dolens, &c., sub- involution of the uterus, generation of moles, and haemorrhage attending expulsion of latter. He concludes that the proper course is to prevent these consequences by removing tlie placenta or membranes retained, and that the safest and best means of so removing the retained uterine contents is to introduce gently and gradually one or two fingers into the uterus, the patient being laid on the back and under chloroform. If the os is too contracted for this method the sponge-tent should be employed. Spiegelbeeg, Prof. 0.—0)i disturbances in the process of Expulsion of the Placenta. Wurzb. med. Ztsch., 1861, p. 39. Schmidt, vol. 111, p. 60. The author states that the normal contractions of the uterus are fre- quently disturbed by a practice midwives have of dragging at the placenta as soon as the child is delivered. Hence the necessity for laying down some rules on the subject. He approves of the practice adopted in England, of following down the uterus with the hand as the expulsion of the child occurs. Undue traction of the cord may produce partial con- traction of the uterus and incarceration of the placenta. Adhesion of the placenta he believes to be rare. When there is hsemorrhnge, not severe in character, the object is to induce general contraction of the uterus by out- ward pressure. If this does not succeed, the ordinary treatment to be had recourse to, and the placenta removed. To allow the placenta to remain is very dangerous. Subsequently the contraction of the uterus is to be carefully looked after ; pressure by the bandage, and internal use of ergot, are the means to be had recourse to for this end. Habit.—Retention of the Placenta after Premature Delivery. Wien. "Wohnsch., 14, 1861. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. ^9. Habit's opinion is that, after delivery at term, the dangers from retention of the placenta are so considerable that interference is necessarv while in retention after abortion an expectant treatment is to be preferred. When in tlie latter case the placenta is retained a very Ion"- time, attended with profuse discharge and other severe symptoms, further interference is required. Two cases are related bearing on this question.