UEPOHT ON SURGERY. 278 Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint. Smith, H. II.—On the lieduction of Lu.vations of the Head of thc^ JIumerus, simply hj manipulation. IlluKtrated by twelve cases. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., July pth, p. 497. Smith's method consists in raising and rotating the head of the bone, lie divides it into three periods:—ist. Elevation of the arm and flexion of the forearm, and. Kotation of the head of the humerus upward, outward, and backward, as far as possible, by using the forearm as a lever. 3rd. Eotation of the head of the humerus upward and inward by a reverse movement, whilst the elbow is brought to the side. The paper ia illustrated by four woodcuts. Smith, N. R.—On Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint, with a description of a novel and efficient mode of Beduction. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., July, p. 17. The author considers that the scapula of the dislocated limb is best fixed by fixing that of the other member, by counter-extending from the wrist. He used formerly to reduce these dislocations by horizontal traction on both wrists, the patient sitting in a chair. Where, from muscular development, or the age of the dislocation, he expects resis- tance, he places the patient in a chair, passes a piece of stout, folded muslin round the chest and under the armpit of the injured side, carries its ends horizontally to the opposite side, one in front, the other behind, and extending the arm horizontally, bandages them firmly to the wrist of the sound side, leaving the ends projecting to be secured to the wall or otber fixed point. An ordinary roller is then passed over the top of the injured shoulder, backwai'ds and forwards, twice under the muslin band, to prevent its slipping down, and then the same roller is carried under the bottom of the chair and over the shoulder three or four times. This helps to steady the scapula and prevents the involuntary rising of the patient. Extension is now made horizontally by the Avrist of the injured side, until the head of the humerus slips into its place or the surgeon lifts it into the glenoid cavity with his Itnee in the axilla. WiiiSOK, J. H.—deduction of an Axillarj/ Dislocation ly H. K. Smith's method, after failure hy Extension. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Eeb. i6th, p. 531. DotroHEHTT, A. N.—Beduction of an Axillary Luxation hy Dr. S. H. Smith's method. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., March 2nd, P- 587- Cooper, E. S.—New mode of treatiny long-standiny Dislocations of the Scapula-clavicular Articulation. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sc., April, P- 3^9- This consists in removing the articular surfaces with a bone forceps, and tying the fresh bony surfaces together with a silver wire passed through holes drilled in the extremities of tlic acromion and collar-bone. Three cases treated with success by this method are reported.