14 IIKVOIIT ON THJi INSTITUTES OP MEDIClNi). described by Merkel (' Anat. u. Pbys. der Menschl. Stimme,' Leipzig, 1857). Q-RUBER.—Supeniumemry Muscles of the Chest. Mem. de I'Acad. de» Sc. de St. Petersb., vol. iii, a. Canst., vol. i, p. 98. The followiug anomalous pectoral muscles were lirst observed by the author:—(i) The "prie-clavicular," which was found three times in 122 bodies, and extends between the anterior surface of the manubrium sterni and the lower margin of the clavicle ; (2) the " pectoralis mini- mus," attached to the middle of the first costal cartilage and the cora- coid process; and (3) a muscle proceeding from the ends of the first and second costal cartilages, and, inferiorly, from the margin of the sternum, to its membranous insertion into the deep lamina of the sheath of the deltoid. Ttjenee, W., M.B. (Lond.)—On the Irregularities of the Omo-Hyoid Muscle; tvith remarks upon their hearings on the SiM-gical Anatomy of the Muscle. Ediu. Med. Journ., May, p. 982. As the omo-hyoid is naturally divided into two bellies, an anterior and a posterior, by an intervening tendon, the author finds it most con- venient to class the irregularities of the muscle into two gi'oups, viz.— ist. Irregularities of the posterior belly. 2nd. Irregularities of the anterior belly. ' Deviations from the normal arrangement of the posterior belly are more frequent than those of the anterior; for, of the twenty cases re- corded, the posterior belly was affected in seventeen instances, and of these eleven occui-red in female and six in male subjects.* The depar- ture from the noi'mal ai-raugement of the muscle consists in the posterior belly assuming a connexion to some portion or other of the clavicle. In eight cases this clavicular attachment was found on both sides of the neck, in foui* cases on the right side only, in five cases on the left side. The part of the clavicle to which the muscle was attached was generally the inferior surface; in the greater number of instances it was connected to the middle thii-d of this surface, next in frequency to the outer third, and very rarely, only one case, to the inner third, its insertion in this instance being concealed by the clavicular fibres of the sterno-mastoid. These do not include those constantly occurring cases where the cervical fascia binds down the muscle close to the clavicle, without any distinct attachment, however, taking place between them. This clavicular attachment of the posterior belly may be the only one that it possesses, so that the muscle may be said to arise from the clavicle, as was seen in nine out of the seventeen bodies in which an irregularity of the posterior belly was met with. 2nd. Irregularities of the anterior belly. Deviations from the normal arrangement of the anterior belly al-e neither so frequent nor so important as those of the posterior. Of the numerous subjects examined, not more than five presented examples of any noteworthy irregularity; two of these were conjoined with a cla- * There are a much larger proportion of female than male subjects dissected. The proportion is, therefore, about equal in the two sexes.