BEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (a) lesions of digestion, (3) impairment of both these processes. He admits the frequent coexistence of mental depression in cases of oxaluria, but does not explain it. Diagnostically the presence of oxalate of lime in the urine aids in distinguishing between typhus and intermittent fever; typhus and acute miliary tuberculosis; in determining the co-existence of overlooked nocturnal epileptic fits; in the recognition of incipient tuber- culosis ; and in establishing the existence of pregnancy. Its prognostic signification is important (a) in pneumonia, as to its duration and violence; (6) in melancholia and (c) in mania, its disappearance from the urine being a favorable sign ; (d) in pleuritic effusions, if the deposit is constant, tuberculosis is to be apprehended; (e) in gastric cancer, where its notable increase is characteristic of incipient ulceration; (/) in conditions of wasting, &c., with irritable temper, in the absence of anaemia, its presence gives reason to fear the development of tuberculosis; (^f) as a negative sign (if absent) in cases of malingering. Smoler examined altogether 400 patients. In 229 it was present constantly or temporarily ; in 21 out of 30 cases of diseases of the brain and nerves; in 67 out of 85 of diseases of the lungs and heart; in 26 out of 54 of diseases of the digestive organs; in 11 out of 16 of diseases of the kidneys and sexual organs ; in 3 out of 6 of diseases of the bones and joints ; in 3 out of 8 of diseases of the skin; in 41 out of 81 general afl'ections ; in 57 out of 120 mental diseases. - Otterson, W. (N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, x86i) treats gleet suc- cessfully by the introduction twice a week of a grooved metallic bougie as far as the glans penis extends. The groove is filled with calomel or citrine ointment. Schneider.—On the Elimination of Mercury dwing and after its Thera- peutic Employment. Med. Jahrb. Ztschr. d. k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien, 1861, part 3. Edin. Med. Journ., Oct. Schneider employed electrolysis for the dete9tion of the metal as the most deHcate test, proving at the same time the nature of the deposit by chemical tests. He never found mercury in the urine of syphihtic patients who had never taken any. But it always was present, not only while mercurial preparations were being taken internally, but for some time afterwards, in one case six weeks. The administration of Pot. lod. does not seem to favour the elimination of mercury from the or- ganism. Examination in the case of a man who had suffered from syphilis for five years, had been three times treated with mercury, and died of pericarditis a few weeks after the last mercurial treatment, gave the fol- lowing results :—In the kidneys alone a minute, but undoubted, trace of mercury was found ; in the liver the reaction was doubtful; the bones, the brain, and the spleen, contained no mercury. In the case of two indi- viduals under treatment by mercury the saliva, faeces, and urine, were examined. No mercury was detected in the saUva, and in the other excretions a quantity less by a notable amount than that which was admm- istered. In one case, out of 25 grains of calomel 7-35 grains were thus unaccounted for. Wolff, G.—On the Symptomatology and Diagnosis of Gall-stones. Virch. Arch., XX, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 39.