246 uepout on suegehy. Maskol.—TUpilqm/, tie result of injury to the Skull ; trephming; cure. Amor. Med. Times, Jan. 19th, p. 45. The left parietal bone had been injured by a blow two years previously. A spicula of bone was removed, after which the fits ceased. BuBEN, Vak.—Trephining vn Epilepsy. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Dec. 29th, i860, p. 388. In some comments on a case where this had been done, Van Buren remarks that this operation is comparatively a simple and li armless one, and explains the current opinion as to its seriousness by the fact that it is usually performed in cases which, from their nature, are fatal. Sateb, L. a.—Trephining for Epilepsy. First trial of Gait's Conical Trephine. Amer. Med. Times, Jan. 5th, p. 6. This trephine " consists of a truncated cone, with spiral peripheral teeth, and oblique crown teeth ; when applied, the peripheral teeth act as wedges so long as counter-pressure acts on the cro\vn teeth; upon removal, however, of that pressure, by the division of the cranial walls, its tendency is to act on the principle of a screw; but owing to its conical form and the spiral direction of its peripheral teeth, its action ceases." In many experiments on the dead subject it could not be made to injure the coverings of the brain, notwithstanding the great force used. In Sayre's case the epilepsy was thought to be connected with an old injury of the occipital bone, but nothing unnatural could be detected on the inner surface of the disc of bone removed. The issue of the case is not stated. THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND AIE-PASSAGES.—OPEllATIONS, DISEASES, AND INJUEIES. The Lips. » roTTOHEE—Atresia Oris after SciM'vy, successfully treated hy an ope- ration. Gaz. des B[6p., 106, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, No. 4, p. 74. Toucher enlarged the mouth by slitting it at either angle into the cheek and stitching the skin to the mucous membrane. ExND, r.—Operations for remedying Deformities of the Lips consequent on congenital malformation, accident, or disease. Dublin Quart. Journ., No. Ixiii, Aug. i, p. 45. The Tongue. Httlkb, J. W.—Wart and Corn of the Mucous Membrane of the Tongue. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 30th, p. 556. Leggatt.—^ case of Acute Glossitis. Lancet, Teb. 2nd, p. 113- The tongue was about three times its natural size, and of a deep- livid colour. The application of several leeches to the enlarged organ was followed by rapid diminution of the swelling.