325 OPHTHALMIC SUEGBliY. ILvTcmmo-s.—Beport on cases of Dialeitc Cataract. Med. Times and • Gaz., March i6th, p. 249. riiANCE, J. 'F.—Case of Diabetic Cataract. Guy's Hosp. Eeports, ' vol. vii. Here linear extraction was followed by intractable inflammation. W^ORDSWORTU, J. C.—On a case of Fenetrating Ulcer of the Cornea, producing a fistulous opening into the anter ior chamhei' and partial collapse of the globe, cured by Iridectomy. Lancet, Oct. _5tli, p. 328. Operations on and Diseases of the Interior of the Eye. CuENUTY, L.—On Paracentesis of the JEye. Annales d'Oculist, xliv, p. 61. Aout et Sept., i860. Twenty-two cases where the eye was tapped, all successful ones, are reportedby the author, who recommends tapping in—(i) glaucoma; (2) hydro-capsulitis; (3) corneal affections; (4) iritis; (5) hypopion; (6) hydrophthalmiae, conical cori^ea, partial staphylomata of coruea and scle- rotic; (7) phlegmonous inflammation of tbe globe. Sperino, from whose hospital practice the cases were taken, uses a small, double-edged knife, slightly curved on the flat and hollow along the middle on one side. He punctures the margin of the cornea and regulates the escape of the aqueous humour by the introduction of a small whalebone probe. Blodig, C.—Aconite in Inflammation of the Eye. Wien. Ztschr., N. P. iii, 43, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 218. According to Schroflf's experiments, aconite produces considerable and prolonged dilatation of the pupil and slowness of the pulse and breathing, as well as increased secretion of urine. Blodig, with ten-drop doses of the tincture, obtained excellent results in cases of ophthalmitis and iritis. BuHRLEif, Dr.—On Ophthalmia Intermittens. Wdrtemb. Corr.-Bl., 37, i86o. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 3, p. 332. Biihrlen, from his observations made during the extensive spread of intermittent fever in i860, describes the following forms of the above afiection: _ (i) That vascular excitement of the eye which accompanies the or- dinary neuralgia of the first branch of the nervus trigeminus. It often disappears before the complete cessation of the pain, and the eye remains free till the next attack. (2) Simultaneously with a malarious neuralgia of the trigeminus there is a corresponding injection of the eye, which does not disappear during the intermissions, and is aggravated with the returning pain. (3) Inflammation of the eye is present, and during its course a ruduucntary or complete intermittent fever is developed. An irritable state of the eye seems to increase the susceptibility of a person dis- posed to mahiria. Flemino.—0/i ^cH^e Ophthalmia. London, 1861. 22