283 JOINTS. FoBSTEn, C.—Compound Dislocation of ihe TJiumh; Eesection of articuJar end of Phalanx; recovery. Med. Times and Graz., Aug. 17th, p. 163. Excision of the Si])-joint. WiXKE, C. K.—Statistical inquiri/ as to the expediency of Excision of the Head of the Femur. Amer. Journ. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 26. Petehs, Gt. a.—Fracture of the Acetahulum; Impaction of the Head of tlie Femur, ^c.; resection. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 260. An injury from blasting. The patient, set. 30, was hit on the left hip by a large fragment of rock. On admission into the New York Hospital, four weeks afterwards, " the thigh was fixed upon the trunk, strongly abducted and rotated outwards, making a right angle with the plane of the body." A sinus ran from behind the left superior spinous process of the ileum directly downwards for foiu" inches. In the fol- lowing months other sinuses formed, and the discharge of pus waa profuse. Sis months afterwards, as the man's condition did not improve, one of the sinuses was laid open, and bare bone was detected, with a fracture of the acetabulum, the head of the femur fixed, the deformity closely resembling a dislocation into the thyroid foramen. On the fol- lowing day, the bone being exposed by a second incision, the femur was cut through with a chain-saw just below the lesser trochanter, and again through its neck, and the intermediate portion, including both tro- chanters, removed. The limb could then be brought straight. The patient rallied for a few days, then sank, and died on the ninth day from the operation. The left ileum was procured for the hospital museum. The acetabulm had been fractured, the head of the femur impacted, and by " ulcerated action" had perforated into the pelvic cavity. The rami of the pubis and ischium had also been broken. BoAVMAjs.—Extensive Strumous Disease of the Sip-joint; excision; the head and neck of the fevmr lying loose in tlie articulation; recovery. Lancet, Peb. and, p. 108. P.\j{TiUDGE.—Old-standing Disease of the Sip-joint; excision. Lancet, Ych. 2nd, p. 109. Ebtchsen.—Disease of the Hip joint, tvith partial Anchylosis; excision of the great trochanter; recovery. Lancet, Feb. 2nd, p. 109. FEROUssoy.—Extensive Disease of the Hip-joint, toith jMrtial dislocation and absorption of the head of the hoiie ; excision; good recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 84. Partridge, R.—Disease of tlie Hip-joint, ivith detachment of part of the head of tlie femur; excision; recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 85. ?Rlcr..—Disease of the Hip-joint, of four years' standing, in a child aged five years; excision; immediate and progressive benefit. Lancet •Jan. 26th, p. 85. ' ' De Mov.qa2(.—Disease of the Hip-joint, with dislocation of the head of the femur; excision; recovery. Lancet, Jan. 26th, p. 85.