IIEPORT ON PJRACTICAL MEDICINE. SxROMEYEii.—Treatment of Acute Jtheumatism. Maxim of Military Surgery. N. Amer. Med.-Cliir. Rev., May, 1861. Stromeyer finds keeping tlie patients cool to be of tlie greatest import- ance, tidministers nitrate and bicarbonate of soda to reduce the force of the pulse, and as soon as the tongue is moist and clean gives opium, which he believes to be the only intrinsically effective internal remedy for rheu- matism. Calomel gr. j is adis horis given in acute heart affections, and leeches applied. McDonald, F. R.—Actea Racemosa in Acute Rheumatism. Edin. Med. Jour., Oct. The author gives v]_ xxv—xl of the tincture ter die, and finds it very successful in all forms of rheumatism. Schmidt and StIirzwege.—On the Influence of Arsenious Acid on Meta- morphosis. Moleschott's Untersuch. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1861. The authors found that small doses caused a considerable diminution la the excx'etion of COg and urea, from £o to 40 per cent. GuENEAU DE MusSY.—Arsenical Baths in Chronic Rheumatism. Gaz. des Hopit., Aug. loth, 1861. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 28th. In the more chronic cases Gueneau de Mussy employs baths containing 100 grammes of carb. sod. with i—2 grammes of arseniate of soda. In the more recent and acute the latter salt is used alone. Temporary in- crease of the articular affection is observed in some cases when the soda and arsenic bath is used, and may be avoided by omitting the soda. The baths are to be employed alternate days, or daily. The number of cases is not given. ' Hermann, Jos.—The non-existence of Constitutional lodism. Qilester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vii, 18—21,1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iia, Hermann's observations on the action of iodine were made on the sy- philitic patients at the Vienna hospital, who were exclusively treated with iodine. The secondary and tertiary forms of syphilis Hermann regards as chronic hydrargyrosis. The effects produced by the administration of iodine were the following:—(i) The quantity of the urine was increased, and its sp. gr. lowered, all the solids becoming considerably diminished. At the same time traces of albumen often appear in the urine, and pretty certainly foreshow that mercury will be detected by electrolysis. (2) In about 10 per cent, of the cases of chronic hydrargyrosis copious saliva- tion occurs, and mercury is discovered in the saliva. (3) In about 5 per cent, of the cases sweating takes place. (4) In many cases cutaneous eruptions. (5) In some cases old cicatrices dissolve, and fresh ulcers form in consequence of the increased vital action induced by the iodine. (6) In rare cases non-exhaustive diarrhoea takes place. No symptoms have been observed corresponding to the acute or chronic iodism of Rilliet. PetuY.—Secondary Symptoms communicated hy Tattooing. Allg. Wieu. Med. Ztg., V. 14, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 112, p. 44.