ItEPOUT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 108 BOCTCLEDEH, v.—On ilie Pro.rimnfp. Annh/sis of Plants and Ter/clahh Substances. Tiansktecl by William Brastich. 8vo, London,' iS'ji. Daubent, Prof. CuAin.ES.—0«, the Power ascribed to the Boots of Plants of rejertinr/ poisonous or abnormal substances presented to tliem. Quart. Journ. of Chcm. Soc, Oct., p. 209. Daubcny's investigations seem to establish the fact tliat, whenever abnormal substances are taken up by a living plant, it is in consequence of some interfLM-ence with the vital functions of the I'oots, caused, perhaps, in the first instance, b}"- the deleterious influence of the agent employed. Mangon, Hebte.—On the production of the Green Matter of Leaves under the influence of Electric Lifjld. Comptes rendus, Aug. ijth, 1861, p. 243. Mangon finds that the green matter which is so easily developed in young leaves exposed to the sun's rays is produced with equal facility when the plants are placed under the influence of a strong electric light. Jolt and Musset.—Besearches on the Orujin, Development, and Fructi- fication of the Yeast Plant. Comptes rendus, Aug. 26th, 1861, p. 368. The authors say—(i) The yeast plant is not a true vegetable, but a mass of spores, which are not only produced in yeast, but even in urine passed after the ingestion into the stomach of a large quantity of beer. (2) The spores, called until now by the name of Torula, or Crj/ptococcus eerevisice, are capable of giving birth to a mycelium, which is by Desma- zieres improperly regarded as a peculiar species of Mycoderme. (3) To the phase of mycelium is succeeded that of fructification, that is to say, the production of the Penicilliu/m glaucum of botanists. (4) Malic or cider yeast passes through an exactly similar process. (5) The origin of these yeasts, as well as of all others, is most probablj' spontaneous. It thus appears that the yeast plant passes through three stages:—ist, the state of spores (Oryptococcus or Torula cerevisic^) ; 2nd, the state of ger- mination, being then the Mycoderma eerevisice of Desmazieres ; and 3rd, the state of fructification, that is to say, the Penicilliiim glaucum of botanists. PotrciiET.— On the Nature and Genesis of Yeast in Alcoholic Fermen- tation. Comptes rendus, Feb. 18th, 1861, p. 284. This author avers that, having mixed equal parts of beer (without yeast) and of cider, he obtained a hybrid yeast, which was neither that of beer nor that of cider, which observation he regards as a conclusive proof of the spontaneous generation of the plant. SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. GnAnAM, T. (Master 0^ iheWini) .—On Liquid Transpiration in relation to Chemical Composition. Proc. l^oy. !Soc., No. 4/;, p. 381. Murray, Dr. John.—On the Laics of the 3Mual Interpenetration of Fluids. Glasgow Med. Journ., July, p. 180, Oct., p. 287.