CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. pigment is regulated. (6) That structural diseases of the abdominal FenGEB.—On the Abortive Treatment of Zona. Bibliothek f. Lager, vol. xiii. Canst. Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 143- . . Fenger paints the patches with collodion, either alone or mixed -with a strong solution of lead. The vesicles speedily collapse, and the inflam- mation diminishes, as well as the pain and fever. Forget.—On the Treatment of Zona. Bull, gener. de Th^r., Oct. 30th, 1861. Brit. Med. Journ., Nov. 30th. Forget discountenances the use of blisters, Arg. Nitras, collodion, &c., leaves the eruption to follow its course, and treats only the complications. Hakdy.—On the Treatment of Eczema. Gaz. des H6pit., Oct. 24th, 3i8t, 1861. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec. In the acuter stages. Hardy employs emollient and mild purgatives, m chronic, arsenic, sulphur, and alkalies. The ointments are always to be dilute, gr. ij—xij of the salt to 1] of lard. Sulphur internally and ex- ternally is particularly useful in cases of pityriasis, which have succeeded to eczema. FoRRER.—On the different Forms of Erysipelas. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. Ill, p. 310. Forrer distinguishes a simple and complicated form; the former (a) limited to the skin, the latter (S) extending to the subcutaneous tissue. In each of these there are various grades of severity. He gives four fatal cases, in two of which there existed meningitis with purulent exudation. In treatment he praises the application of collodion. Bell, Jos.—On the Prevention of Pitting in Smallpox by the application of the Liniment. Aquce Calais, and Cotton Wool. Glasgow Med. Journ., July. The wool is soaked in the liniment, and applied all over the face. If applied early it prevents swelling, and in all cases allays irritation, reduces febrile excitement and swelling, and prevents pitting. Laycock, T.—Clinical Researches into Morbid Pigmentary Changes in the Complexion. Brit and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. and April. Laycock arrives at the following conclusions, which he illustrates at length.—(i) That besides blue and green, of rare occurrence, there are two common, well-marked and distinct forms of morbid discoloration due to pigment deposit—the yellow or sallow, and the black or swarthy. (2) That both yellow and swarthy discoloration of the skin will occur from the action of local irritants—as heat, light, cutaneous parasitic fungi, blisters, sinapisms, and the like, or in the progress of various cutaneous diseases of the skin and its appendages. (3) That the absence of pigment (leucopathia), as well as its deposit, may be caused by inflam- matory and other diseases of the skin affecting its chromatogenous func- tion. (4) That morbid states of the cerebro-spinal centres will influence the deposit, or non-deposit of pigment. (5) That morbid states of the genito-urinary organs in both sexes, acting probably, through the nervous system; will determine the election of locality of pigment deposit, ac- cording to the same law by which the development of sexual hair and