nEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND MATERU MEMCA. not be ascertained. The most remarkable appearances due to the action ot the poison observed at the autopsy were the following;—" The lips were of a blackish colour, and exhibited a puckered and corroded ap- pearance;" the upper surface of the tongue was grey and sodden and covered here and there with pasty-looking matter ; the mucous membrane of the pharynx was highly congested, that of the oesophagus macerated, and towards the cardia of an ashen colour. There was a perforation im- plicating a considerable part of the posterior wall of the stomach, the adjoining mucous membrane being dark (in the accompanying drawing black) and softened. The mucous surface of the pyloric end of the stomach and of the duodenum was congested, that of the remainder of the small intestine healthy. The oxalic acid remaining in the alimentary canal was determined quantitatively to be four grains. From the post- mortem appearances, the speedy death, and the character of the stains on the child's clothing, the author concludes that the acid was given in concentrated solution. On opening the abdomen the contents of the stomach were found in the cavity of the peritoneum, so that perforation could not have been produced in the process of dissection. Sanionine. Rose.—On the phenomena conseqiient on large doses of Santonine and Setnen-contra, Bull, de Ther., vol. Ixi, p. 234. The author found that santonine, in doses varying from three grains to a drachm, was without toxic action either on man or animals, whereas the santonate of soda, in doses of a drachm, induces death, preceded by cou- vulsions. The difference he attributes to the fact that scarcely any of the santonine is absorbed, while the salt passes into the circulation with great rapidity. Three hours after taking santonine, M. Rose observed that all surrounding objects appeared yellow; larger doses produced only a peculiar kind of headache and a great desire to micturate. The urine passed was orange-coloured, and became purple on the addition of alkaline. ALKALOIDS. Lafakgue.—Hypodermic inoculation " par enchevillement" of Sulphate of Atropine, Muriate of Morphia, Siiljjhate of Strychnia, and other similar substances, in the treatment of Neuralgia, Partial Paralysis, ^c. Bull, de Ther., vol. Ix, p. 22. The new method recommended by M. Lafargue consists in the intro- duction, under the integument of the affected part, of a solid but perfectly soluble needle-shaped cylinder, resembling a filament of uncooked vermi- celli. These cylinders are prepared by rolling a pill mass made of the alkaloid, intimately mixed with white sugar and a small proportion of mu- cilage ; those of sulphate of atropine contain about one thirtieth of a grain of the salt. In order to introduce the cylinder, the author passes a sharp needle, previously ground to a lance-shnped point, under the integument to a sufficient distance ; the needle is then withdrawn, and the cylinder, which must be of less diameter than the needle, inserted in its place, where it is confined by a bit of sticking plaster, The advantages claimed