3 56 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of the petit mal kind, and seemed attributable to excessive mental exertion. Tiieir recurrence seemed to be promoted by the recumbent posture. After four months they gradually ceased, pustulation of tlie neck having been induced by antimonial ointment. Gray believes that the cause of the fits was vascular congestion and disordered function of the medulla oblongata. Ayres, D.— On a Case of JEpileptiform Convulsion. Med. Crit. and Psycholog. Journ., Oct., 1861. Ayres's case had received a lacerated wound from a stone over the right frontal eminence, which left an indurated cicatrix. After the accident his temper became greatly altered—morose and irritable; he had vertigo and headache, and some dragging of the left leg. Occasionally he lost con- sciousness and fell. No treatment was of any avail, but, after trephining over the seat of the injury and removing a piece of healthy bone, recovery ensued. Ayres explains tiie good result of the operation on the view that it removed the irritation existing in the cicatrix, which bad always been the seat of painful sensations before the vertigo. Jakbch.—On Chorea, Prager Vierteljabrschr., vol. ii. Canst. Jahresb., vol. iii, p. 41. Jaksch says that chorea essentially consists in a disturbance of the law of isolated conduction of nervous impulses. The will acts not only on the muscles necessary to execute the intended act, but upon others also. The more complex is the muscular act, the more extensive are the invo- luntary movements. The essential concernment of the will is apparent from the cessation of the movements during sleep. Tdrnbull, J.—On the Physiological and Medicinal Properties of Sul- phate of Aniline, and its use in the treatment of Chorea. Lancet, Nov. i6th. TurnbuU records six cases, two of them very severe ones, in which the drug effected a cure. He has tried it also in epilepsy and in a case of jerking of the bead with benefit. • It produces, after several doses, a peculiar blueness of the lips, the tongue, and the nails, and a dusky appearance of the complexion, which disappears within twenty-four hours after leaving off the medicine. Turnbull believes this effect to result from the production of a blue dye during the oxidation of the aniline in the blood, in the same way as carbazotic acid produces a yellow. DucHENNE.—Progressive Muscidar Paralysis of the Tongue, Soft Palate, and Lips. Gaz. llebdom. de M6d. et de Chir., Jan i8th, 1861. Lond. Med. Rev., Feb., 1861. The muscles of the tongue are generally first affected ; some months later those of the soft palate, and after them the orbicularis oris. At a later period paroxysms of dyspnoea and of syncope supervene, and become more frequent as the end of the disease approaches. Before ibis arrives articulate speech is wholly lost, as well as deglutition, and the patients become gradually weaker from inanition. The shortest duration observed