NEEVOrS SYSTEM. 155 Under the above name Trousseau describes a paroxysmal disorder pre- ceded by formication, and consisting in contraction of the hands, arms, or lower limbs, one or all being affected, unattended with pain or fever. Tliis is the mildest form, but in graver the whole body becomes involved, and the condition merges into tetanus. The fingers are invariably drawn up into a cone. The duration of the disease is from ten to fourteen days. Trousseau regards the disease as of rheumatic character ; its most frequent exciting causes are diarrhoea and lactation. Death has only occurred in one case. Venesection, if the strength permit, followed by quinine, is the best treatment. McDowell, R.—Tetanus in Ceiitral America. Lancet, Sept. 7th. McDowell mentions that the disease is very fatal in these regions, and that there is a popular conviction that it is always induced by exposure to currents of cold air or to wet. WoAKES, E.—Case of Traumatic Tetanus, successfully treated by Tinct. Aconili; ivith suggestions on the use of Aconite in Strychnine Poison- ing. Brit. Med. Journ., Oct. a6th. Woakes recommends aconite on the ground of its establishing an exactly opposite physiological condition to that which exists in tetanus, one, that is, of muscular repose, while its anodyne influence is undoubtedly advan- tageous. It is no antidote to strychnia in the sense of chemically destroy- ing it, but as a neutralizer of its action, the contractile power of the muscles being strongly excited by the one and powerfully relaxed by the other. While aconite is being administered the system should be sup- ported by stimulants. Hanna Thompson, W.— The Pathology of Tetanus. Amer. Med. Times, Feb. and and 9th. Thompson argues that tetanus results from the action through the circulation, in the nervous system, of a poison which, in traumatic cases. Is generated during the processes of healing or decomposition of the fluids about the wound. This poison multiplies itself like other zymotic poisons, till an explosion of symptoms occurs. He thinks the disease very analogous to hydrophobia. Medicines which act on the blood, as mercury, iron, or iodine, are, in his opinion, the best remedies. SiEVEKiNG, E.—Analysis of fifty-two Cases of Epilepsy observed by the Author. Med.-Chir. Trans., 1861. There were 29 males and 23 females ; 37 were below the age of twenty- one (dating from the time of the first paroxysm), 10 were from twenty- one to forty, and 5 from forty-one to sixty-eight years old. Hereditary taint was traced in 14. In 13 no predisposing or exciting cause could be de- tected; in the remainder uterine disorders or some exhausting nfl'ection were noted in the mnjority. Premonitory symptoms were observed in 21 cases, headache in 23. The tongue was bitten in 28. In the urine there was Nothing peculiar. Gray, E. B.—Crrse of Epilepsy, with lo^s of Speech and other complica- tions; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 9th. The fits occurred almost every hour of the day and night, were rather I