REPOUT ON iriDAVIFEny, ETC. 35i POSITION IN LABOUE; AIDS IN LABOUK. HouL, Prof.—On Position during Labour. Deut.Kl., i, 1861. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 188. The author beUeves the position on the back is, as a rule, the best, both for enabling the woman to help herself and because in this position the mechanism of labour is least likely to be disturbed. OssiEUR.—On the Knee and Elbow Fosition, Journ. de lirux., April, 1861, Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 53. The author sets forth the advantages which this possesses over the other positions in facilitating certain obstetric manoeuvres, Keating, Dr.—Emploi/ment of the Colpeurynter for dilating the Os Uteri during Labour. Am. Med. Journ., January, i86i, p. 124. The author finds this instrument most valu.ible in all cases where the parts are otherwise undilatable, and frequently uses it as a substitute for ergot to shorten the labour, also to dilate the vagina and perinseum in advance of the head. Valenta, Prof.—Catheterization of the Uterus as a means of exciting Uterine Contraction. Wien. Med. Halle, i86o, 10, 11, 14. Schmidt, vol. iii, p. 189. The author believes that in catheterization of the uterus we have a means of exciting uterine contractions, botli in order to bring on labour artificially and in cases where, the labour having begun, the pains are •weak, so long as the waters have not escaped. The instrument to be used is a thick, English catheter, it is to be introduced between the posterior wall of the uterus and the membranes. Ten cases are related in which this method was employed to hasten or originate parturient action. ' Wmm.—On the "Prager Ha)idgrif." Deut. Kl., 44, i860. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. 317. The author states that for the last thirty years a peculiar mancEuvrc has been practised with great success in the Prague Hospital in order to deliver the head in cases of breech presentation. It consists in first drawing the trunk of the child down as low as possible, and then carrying the feet forward toward the abdomen of the mother, exercising at the same time moderate traction. ANiESTHESIA IN MID\^^FEEY. Bakkeii, Dr. Foudyce.—On the use of Anaesthetics in Midwifery. Trans, of New York Ac. of Med., 1861, p. 2^1. The author has employed anaesthesia 786 times : chloroform 759, sul- phuric ether 27 times ; 577 of them were private, natural cases. On the whole, he has found chloroform accelerate rather than retard labour. Hie general conclusions are—(i) That anaesthesia is of the greatest value ni ob- stetric practice j that chloroform is generally preferable. (2) It exerts uo