858 EEPOET ON MIDWIPEEY, ETC. MISCELLANEOUS. Barnes, Dr. Robert.—Clinical Lectures on Abdominal Collapse or Shock from Abdominal Disease. Lancet, Aug. 3rd, 1861, p. 105, and Aug. 24tli, p. 177. The author's remarks apply to the effect of exposure of a large super- ficies of the peritoneum to irritation in producing fatal collapse or shock, usually the result of some severe injury occurring suddenly. In the first lecture are considered various conditions of the ovary which may cause this shock or collapse. A case is related in which a pregnant woman had a blow on the abdomen. Death took place some days after, and it was found that an ovarian cyst had been ruptured, causing peritoneal irritation and shock. Other conditions of the ovary capable of causing the same shock are then alluded to and illustrated by cases. They are—lisemorrhage from an ovarian cyst into the peritoneum ; haemorrhage into the cyst with- out rupture of the same, causing sudden dilatation and irritation; bursting of an ovarian cyst with puriform contents ; irritation due to in- jection of iodine into an ovarian cyst producing sudden impressions upon the interior; blood poured out from the surface of a healthy ovary, or a newly burst Graafian follicle, as in cases of retro-uterine hsematocele. In a second lecture the author considers conditions of other organs causing abdominal shock or collapse. These are—rupture of the uterus ; sudden and violent displacements of the uterus, whether gravid or not [an in- teresting case is related, in -which a polypus of the uterus, in conse- quence of a fall, suddenly became external, dragging and injuring the uterus and producing haemorrhage and shock : the tumour was removed, but the patient died] ; retroversion of the pregnant uterus; entry of air into the peritoneum by way of the Fallopian tubes; eff'usion of pus and inflammatory products from the tubes, or from the uterus itself along the tubes into the peritoneal cavity ; ulceration of the Fallopian tubes themselves ; cases of tubal gestation in which rupture occurs. Various conditions of other abdominal organs are next mentioned as capable of giving rise to the symptoms in question. The author concludes by remarking on the diagnosis of abdominal from other forms of collapse. lu abdominal collapse the intellect is clear; this distinguishes it from cranial collapse, while in pectoral cases the circulation and respiration afford distinctive symptoms. Edwards, Dr. St. John (Malta).—On "Abdominal Shock." Lancet, Oct. 5th, 1861, p. 336. The author relates a case illustrating some of the positions of Dr. Barnes on this subject. The patient died of collapse a few days after delivery of a seven months' foetus. The membranes of the sac of an ovarian cyst were found ruptured, due, as the author believes, to twisting of the sac by expulsive action of the uterus. On certain conditions of the Sexual Oi-gans as certain indications of the practice of Onanism. Discussion on this question, and decision of the Obstetrical Society in Berlin. Mon. f. Geb., 1861, August. The queatioa was put to the society whether the following changes