REPORT ON PRACTICAL SrEDICINE. 140 A chart is given of the course of the six most important forms of disease, viz., typhus, pulmonary and digestive catarrh, pneumonia, variola, and ague. Compared with former years, this shows (i) tliat almost all the forms on the present occasion culminated togetiier in the winter of 1858 and 1859, soon subsided, and from March remained at a very low figure ; (2) that the almost constant increase observed at the approach of winter in former years (excepting 1853) did not occur, and that after a slight autumnal increase all the forms extraordinarily di- minished. Dysentery prevailed much, and was very intractable in August and September. A case of sanious inflammation of the pancreas, and one of the liver, are recorded from their rarity. In cases of variola water dressing to the pustulating surfaces was beneficial. The covering, how- ever was ill-borne on the face, and in consequence the plan was devised of continually irrigating the whole body with lukewarm water. In scar- latina ice pills and cold external applications were found useful in severe angina tonsillaris. Psoriasis was treated very successfully by baths, washing with sulphuret-of-lime lotion, subsequent tarring, and arsenic in- ternally. Prurigo patients spent two houi's a day in the bath, used the S; Ca. lotion, and were wrapped in 01. Morrh. dressings at night. Eczema was treated, if the skin was infiltrated, by frictions with schmier-soap, if not by tarry, cod-oil, or cold-water dressing. Sigmund's experience of syphilization leads him to doubt of the advisability of employing it. Re- lapses occur after this, as after other remedial procedures. Ormerod, E. L.—Notes on Diphtheria as ohserved at Brighton, Lancet, Dec. 7th, 2ist. Ormerod states that inflammatory afi"ections of the fauces during the last eight years have risen from 0*3 to 4-4 in private, and from i"i to 3*o per cent, in hospital patients (croup, laryngitis, and syphilitic sore throat being excluded). Children are mostly the subjects of diphtheria, and among them the weakliest, and specially those who are adopted. Bad ventilation appears to have more to do in causing diphtheria than bad drainage. Ormerod distinguishes—(i) the form with well-marked mem- branous exudation ; (2) that characterised by swelling, ulceration, and sloughing, where exudation may or may not exist; and (3) a quinsy-like afi'ection. These forms in many instances are more or less blended together. After describing the general course of the disease, Ormerod notices the danger of sudden fatal collapse, from overtasking the powers of any important organ or the system at large. He mentions three fatal cases of this kind. That the disease is difi'erent from scarlatina Ormerod is convinced, but he is equally clear that the two have much in common. Fresh air, and common wholesome food he believes to be the best pre- ventives, and that anything in the way of over-delicate nurture predis- poses to it. Ventilation, especially of the sleeping-apartment, he considers most important, as well as domestic cleanliness. The treatment of the patient, if seen early, he commences with an emetic of ipecacuanha and zinc and a purge. It is, however, necessary to resort speedily to tonics, quinine, iron, or ammonia. lie prefers the former with nitro-hydrochloric acirl. Stimulating liniments or fomentations to the neck are recommended, and chlorinated lotions to the throat.