heport on the institutes oi' medicine. 46 structure and functions. This result has even ensued after the central portion liad been toru out. IM'ore recently the authors excised a portion of tlie lingual nerve, two Indies long, in two nearly fuU-growu dogs, inserting it under the skin in the inguinal region. Six months later, the peripheric part of the lingual, still isolated from tlie central portion, contained numerous restored tubes; tlie transplanted segment was of a grayish colour, united with the couuective tissue of the part, and contained a number, fifteen to twenty, of slender restored tubes scattered among othei-s in dill'erent stages of transformation. In one of the cases it was ascertained tliat pinching the transplanted segment elicited no sign of pain, which renders it improbable that it communi- cated with the nervous filaments of the region. Weissmank, Aug.—On Nerve-formation in a Neuroma, Zschr. f. rat. Med., vol. vii, p. 209. Canst., vol. i, p. 68. Erom his examination of a traumatic neuroma on his own thumb, the author arrives at the result, that the new nerve-fibres originate, not by the division of those already existing, but irom the neurilemma (likewse formed anew) and from series of spindle-shaped nuclei. Hjelt, Otto.—On tlie Begeneration of the Nerves. Virchow's Archiv, vol. xix, p. 352. Canst., vol. i, p. 51. Hjelt's conclusions are—(i) that the first step towards the regene- ration of a divided nerve, is a formation of connective tissue originating in the nuclei of the neurilemma (i. e. in the connective-tissue corpuscles), and (2) that the filaments connecting these nuclei blend with the old nerve-tubules, eventually to assume the character of nerves. ISIatteucci.—Lectures on I^Iectro-phjsiologi/ delivered ai tJie Universiti/ of Turin. Comptes rendus, 1861, May, p. 954. Treating of the polarities and secondary cm-rents developed in the nerves by the passage of the electric current, the author shows that such polarization is especially powerful in thd nerve traversed by the inverse current, and in the proximity of the ])ositive electrode and of the muscle from which the nerve issues. The experiment consists in taking the nerve after the passage of the inverse current, cutting it in half and opposing the two pieces to one another. There thus arises a strong diflerential current belonging to the portion nearest the positive pole, although both portions, tested separately, give a secondary current in the same direction. The result is, that on the interruption of the circuit, a nerve, previously the seat of the inverse current, will be traversed by a direct one. And thus it is explained why a nerve, traversed by the inverse current, is excited with the interruption of the circuit. To demonstrate that a mnscle Avhich has been contracting, has lost electro-motor power, and that such loss is repaired by rest, let two similar muscles on the same frog be opposed to one another, and when their electro-motor power is found to be the same, let one be made repeatedly to contract. AVith the double opposed pile a powerful differential current is discovered in tlie direction of the unexcited muscle and if the pile be left to itself, that current gradually disappears.