38 KEl'OUT 0\ THK INSTITIJJ-KS OF T\fEl)lCIXF. After sectiou of the vagus tlie breathing movements are deep and slow, whilst tlie pulse is veiy rapid. The pulse remains perfectly uniform' throughout both acts ot respiration. The blood-pressure continues as above described. Thus, according to the author's conclusions, during expiration the pulse slackens from irritation of the vagus, caused by intra-cranial con- gestion. The acceleration of the pulse during inspiration is, presumablv, occasioned by the remission of excitation of the vagus, and not bv'a direct irritation of the heart by increased influx of the blood. The variation of blood-pressure depends ou the thoracic movements and the quantity of blood in the heart. Inspiration relieves the heart and great ve.ssels of tension, and, therefore, there is a diminution of blood-pressure at first, such as there is just after rarefaction is effected; but the heart speedily becomes fuller and more excitable, so that arte- rial tension is enhanced—a condition t^omewhat similar to that observed xinder gi-eat rarefaction. At the commencement of expiration, the chest-movement and the fulness of the heart combine to raise arterial tension to its maximum, but afterwards arterial efflux is promoted, whilst venous afflux is impeded, and the pressure falls. The influence of the breathing movements depends materially on the condition of the medulla oblongata and the excitability of the vagi. YlGOTJEOtrx.—On tlie influence of Sensibility on tlie Cireulation during Surgical Antestliesia. Comptes Eendus, Feb. 4th, 1861, p. 201. In analysing thirty-one detailed cases of death from chloroform the author remarks—(ist) In several cases death surprised the patient in an attitude very favorable to the occurrence of syncope—that is to say, in a sitting position, (and) The pulse ceased to beat at that step of the operation which, without chloroform, would have been the most painful. (3rd) The operations, although very far from being danger- ous, were, nevertheless such as produce intense and sudden pain. Now, pain being a cause of syncope, the question arises, " Does pain continue to exercise a similar influence even durirrg anesthesia ?" The author, on the strength of some experiments, replies that syncope is as readily induced by potential as by sensible pain; and, consequently, he advises that operations should be performed before the power of reflex movement is abolished. In order, still farther, to weaken the (potentially) painful impression, and to obviate the necessity of push- ing narcosis to its extreme, he I'ecommends the simultaneous employ- ment of local anaesthetics. It may also be remarked that the writer objects to a parallel being di-awn between the fatal eftects of chloroform on animals and on man, as in the former instance pain plays no part. Lastly, the conclusions arrived at by the author are—(i) The influ- ence of the nerves of sensibility on the heart exists during autesthesia. (2) This influence appears, indeed, to be increased. (3) It may be carried to the extent of arresting the heart's action. (4) This stoppage of the heart's action may be considered as the most frequent cause of death during anesthesia. ]\fAC?rAMAiiA, James (Calcutta).—Fost-inortem Contractu itg. jMed. Times and Gaz., Marcli 30th, p. 345.