4 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. growth of organic tisBuea are primarily oAviug to the successive for- mation of histogenotic and histolytic molecules. "Bennett tliinka, moreover, that not only development, hut growth and secretion, ah«orption and excretion, are only diflerent names given to histogenetic and histolytic processes, and these are hrought ahout hy formative and disintegrative molecules. In directing attention to a molecular theory of organization, it is not the author's wiwh to interfere in any way with the well-observed facts on which physiologists have based what has been called the cell- theory of growth. This last will require modification, in so far as un- known processes of growth have been hypothetically ascribed to the direct metamorphosis of cell-elements. But a cell once formed may produce other cells by buds, by division, or by proliferation, Avithout a new act of generation, in the same manner that many plants and animals do ; and this fact comprehends most of the admitted observa- tions having reference to the cell doctrine. The molecular, he says, is therefore in no way opposed to a true cell-theory of growth, but con- stitutes a wider generalization and a broader basis for its operations. Neither does it give any countenance to the doctrines of equivocal or spontaneous generation. It is not a fortuitous concourse of molecules that can give rise to a plant or animal, but only such a molecular mass as descends from parents, and receives the appropriate stimulus to act in certain directions. The author concludes by saying that the theory he has endeavoured to establish on histological and physiological groimds is fuUy supported by all the known facts of disease and of morbid growths, which further serve to show that pathology, so far from being cellular, is, in truth, molecular. Beale, Prof.—Lectures on tlie Structure and O-roivth of tlie Tissues of the Human Body. Delivered at the Royal College of Physicians, April—May. Micros. Journ., July, p. 183 , and Oct., p. 235. Med. Times and Graz., April and May. In speaking of connective tissue, the author remarks that the common theory is that it exists everywhere, as a common bond and matrix to all other tissues. But it can scarcely be said to exist in young animals or in very small animals—the mouse, for example. It is commonly described as consisting of cells and intercellular substance, the latter being identical with white, fibrous tissue ; and this has been assumed to be formed by the fibrillation of solidified exudation from the blood. Dr. Beale's researches led him to believe that white, fibrous tissue consists of masses of germinal matter, imbedded in formed material. Of connective tissues there are many varieties, Uie areolar, white, yellow in various forms, and the mucous tissue, as in the um- bilical cord and vitreous humour. All of these pass by imperceptible gradations into cartilage and bone, lu white, fibrous tissue the masses . of germinal matter are continuous; in cartilage they are discontinuous and isolated by the formed uiaterial. Most elementary parts pass into connective tissue. Query:—Is it, then, anything special, or is it ill- developed tissue ? A'irchow believes tlie cells of areolar tissue to com-