EEPOET ON FOEENSIC MEDICINE. 4.56 was diminished by the low degree of development of corporeal and mentiil faculties to which he had attained. As regards the former, the opinion was founded on the absence of the signs of puberty, and the fact that he had long suffered from epilepsy and scrofula; as regards the latter, on the evidence of limited intelligence afforded by a variety of facts ; on the want of moral and religious principle, as shown by ingratitude of the accused to his parents and other benefactors ; on his childish levity and recklessness ; on his tendency to boast of bad actions ; on the readiness with which he fabricated long stories of crimes in which he had been principal and accessory, which stories he as readily denied, and invented others in their place; on the absence of any trace of regret or fear of consequences or of any motive to his crimes, except the desire to make himself conspicuous, and to enjoy the excitement of a fire. Lehks.—Manslaughter by Mental Means (auf psychischen Wege). Report on the cause of death of the patrol, Martin N—. Henke, part 4, p. 286. A party of patrols was attacked in the night by some armed country- men, who mistook them for thieves. One of them, Martin N—, was pursued for some distance, and finally fell into a ditch, on which his pur- suers left him, uninjured. During the same night he complained of shiver- ing and headache. He was first seen by a surgeon on the day after when his state was as follows:—He was able to answer questions only in short, unconnected sentences. He was very restless; the eyes were closed, the pupils dilated, and almost insensible to light; the tongue was dry; the pulse full, hard, and of moderate frequency ; the head was hot, and the bowels were confined. The treatment consisted in leeches and cold applications to the head, calomel, and other antiphlogistic remedies. The patient died on the fifth day, death having been preceded by complete insensibility. At the examination of the body the following lesions were observed:— The pia mater was found, on removal of the dura mater, to be intensely injected and thickened, and on its surface, under the arachnoid, there were numerous purulent points, particularly on the basal aspect of the brain, in the neighbourhood of the sella turcica. The whole upper surface was covered with semi-fluid yellow pus, which could be removed with the back of the scalpel; no other morbid appearance was met with. From these lesions it was concluded that the direct cause of death was general inflammation of the pia mater; that this was determined by the mortal fear which possessed the mind of the deceased during his precipitate flight ; that, as a predisposing cause, his "apoplectic confor- mation" contributed to the result. Previously to the affray the deceased was in perfect health. Friedreich.—On responsibility for acts committed under the infuence of rage. Friedreich, vol. xi, part i. Maschka.—Opinion on the mental condition of the imirderer, Martin P—. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, Nos. 5 and 6. Flechner. — Cases of Mental Disease in medico-legal practice. Oest. Ztsch., vol. vi, Nos. 29, .38, 43, and 46. Canst., vol. vii, p. 23. (i) Periodical delusion, with maniacal excitement; abolition of dis- posing power. (2) Delusion, with melancholy; recovery; disposing