66 REPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the track of the arteries; as also of plexuses of dai-k and pule uei-ve- fibres, mostly derived iroui tlie ciliary nerves, aud euclosiug guuglionic cells. SonwETOOKit, C.—On the Oanf/lion-cells and Pale Nerves of/he Choroid. Archiv f. Oplith., vol. vi, part 2, p. 320. Canst., vol. i, p. 61. The author corroborates Muller's discoveiy of the nervous plexuses in the choroid, cousistiug of pale nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells. RiTTEE.—0;t fhe Structure of the Bodn and on the external terininalions of the Badiating Fibres in the Froc/s Retina. Archiv f. Ophtb. vol. V, part 2. p. loi. Canst., vol. i, p. 58. lu the retinal columns of the frog this observer traces delicate fibres connected severally with a nucleus of the external granular layer, and ceasing a little distance from the outer end of the rods. In eyes hard- ened by chromic acid it is, he avers, very evident that the rods consist of an external, consistent, homogeneous envelope, open at its inner and closed at its outer end, a narrow filament lying in the axis of that tube, and a medullary substance surrounding the filament. Henke.—Tlie Ilechanism of Accommodation for Short and Long Distances. Grafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part 2, p. 53. Q-EAEE.—A Case of Traumatic Absence of the Iris, as a contribution to the theory of Accommodation. Grrafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part 2, p. 150. Canst., vol. i, pp. 12, 170. In Grafe's case one iris had been entirely removed in the ti-eatment of an injury, yet the eye was ascertained to possess the adjusting power of a normal organ. This proves that the iris does not participate iu the act of accommodation. In the instance in question, where the ciliary- circle coidd be directly observed, no contraction or dilatation thereof was seen to attend the focal adjustment of the eye, a circumstance opposed to a theory of the mechanisui of accommodation originally advanced by M. Langenbeck, and now supported by Heuke. Becker, O.— Observation of a Reflected Image in one's oion Eye. "Wiener Med. Wochenschr. No. 42, p. i. Canst., vol. i, p. 174. Coccius ha\-ing stated that, if a candle be passed across the field of vision, a second and reversed image of the flame may be seen moving iu the same direction as the true image, and attributable to reflection from the hyaloid membrane, Becker repeated the experiment, but found the movements of the reversed image were in a direction opposite to those of the candle, whence he refers it to reflection of the image of the posterior surface of the lens (Purkinje's third image) at the concave aspect of the cornea. DoNDEES.—Contributions to a knowledge of the Anomalies of Refraction and Accommodation. Grafe's Archiv, vol. vi, part i, p. 62, part 2, p. 210; vol. vii, part 8, p. 155. Canst., vol. i, p. 12. This author's extensive researches have satisfied him that the power of visual adjustment (measured by the diftereuce between the respective values of the short and long focal distances) diminishes in astonishingly .clo.'je proportion to advancing age iu all healthy eyes. This, he believes,