232 IIKPOIIT ON I'llACTICAL MEDICINE. Sampson, A.—On the Diaynosis of Hydrophobia. Philad. Med. and Surer Reporter. Dublin llosp. Gaz., May 15th. The voice of the rabid dog is peculiarly altered, and this may be the sole and earliest symptom of the disease. SciiuciiAiiDT.—The Action of Aniline on the Animal Organism. Virch. Archiv, xx, 5 and 6, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 290. Aniline in doses of 50—100 drops killed rabbits in 4—6 hours with violent convulsions. It produces auicsthesia especially of the hinder limbs and lowers the temperature of the body. The pupil was unaffected. It is not eliminated by the urine. Krajewski, Y.—The Effects of Great Cold on the Animal Organism. Gaz. desllopit., 140, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 530. Krajewski states from observations of men, and experiments with animals, that the power of enduring cold varies greatly with the individual constitution, some being much better able to resist the cold than others. The chief peculiarities observed in tiie bodies of persons dead from cold are—(i) Unusual degree of rigor mortis, and a brittle condition of promi- nent parts, as the nose, ears. (2) Congestion of the brain and its mem- branes, and often serous effusion into the ventricles. (3) Hypostatic congestion of the lungs. (4) Coagula in the heart, especially in the right side. (5) Portions of ice in the subcutaneous vessels, ventricles of the brain, bladder, and cardiac cavities. (6) Separation of the sides of the coronary and sagittal suture (a characteristic sign). JosEPiisoN, C.—Mine Disease. Pr. Militararztl. Ztg., i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 110, p. 334. The men employed in working these mines or galleries have frequently to inhale the gases produced by the combustion of cbai'ges of gunpowder, which seems to be the cause of the following symptoms :—Sudden, vio- lent, boring pain in the middle of the forehead. Sudden loss of con- sciousness and motor power, temporary arrest of breathing, followed by retching and vomiting. Sudden attack of tonic convulsion, lasting two minutes, followed by signs of severe frontal pain, then sopor attended with copious salivation. Recovery seems always to have occurred. Josephson distinguishes three degrees of severity in the attack, correspond- ing to the symptoms here enumerated. A dose of brandy was found useful as a preservative and restorative. Quarantine.—Brit, and For. Med.-Chir, Rev., July, 1861. The first quarantine regulations were put forth at Venice in 1448. The old classification adopted of susceptible, non-susceptible, and doubtful substances, is now found to be altogether worthless. The question of the mode of propagation of the plague, cholera, and yellow fever, whether by contagion, infection, or in some other way remains undecided. Quarantine is enforced with great laxity in some places, and stringently in others, while the state of the lazarettos where detained persons have to remain, is often abominably bad. It seems to be decided at present that articles of mer- chandize are incapable of transmitting contagion, inasmuch as those whose duty it is to air the goods have never contracted disease, cither plague,