292 llErOllT ON SURGERY. Adams—ylneMr/swi of the Popliteal Arlcnj in an old man tcifh an arcun senilis; treatment ly com^rression; ctirc. Lancet, May 2'\i\\ p. 511. ' A storekeeper, a?t. 67. The aueuriHin, of tlie size of an orange, liad been first noticed only ten days before be was sent to Adams. December 21st, i860,—A bladder of snow (afterwards of ice) wasr applied to the tunioiir, and an inen'ectuul attempt Avas made to compress the artery against the pnbes with a weight. January ist, 1861,—A Signorini'a toui-niquet was applied one incii below the groin and the ice was dis- continued. Pebruary 6th,—The tumour is the size of a large walnut, hard and firm. April 19th,—He left the hospital cured. UiiK.—Aneurism of the Popliteal; treat went first hj compression, suhse- qiienthj hrj ligature of the femoral artery ; recovery. Lancet, May 25th, p. 510. The aneurism was as large as a turkey's egg. Compression was effected by a " double compress, well padded, applied along the middle third of the femoral artery beneath a tourniquet." Subsequently the pressure was alternated between the groin and the middle third of the thigh. After a few days, increasing oedema of the limb and irritability of the patient led Ure to tie the artery. The thread separated on the seventeenth, and the man left St. Mary's Hospital on the fifty-fourth day after the operation. PoLAifD.—Case in which a (PopliteaT) Aneurism icas cured hy compression nine years ago. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. i6th, p. 175. Eddowes, J. H.—Case of Poj^lifeal Aneurism ; ligature of the femoral; secondary hcemorrliage ; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th, p. 25a. A gamekeeper, ajt. 3 ^J. The aneurism measured five inches by two. Pressure was tried, at first with the ordinary tourniquet (with pad and strap) and afterwards with Signoriui's; but the skin threatening to slough, the vessel was tied. CoENEX.—Popliteal Aneurism ; compression ; cure. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. A shipwright, fet. 38. The tumour, in the right ham, measured four inches by three. Carte's instrument Avas first employed, but afterwards a common sasli-bolt weighing seven pounds. Peters, G. A.-—Popliteal Aneurism occurring in the course of a ligated vessel. Amer. Med. Times, April 20th, p. 261. Peters amputated the leg of a man, jct. 41, for a diftused popliteal aneurism Avhich had suppurated and burst. The patient's external iliac artery had been tied three years previously by Dr. Hosack for inguinal aneurism. LocKWOOD, A. P.—Case of Popliteal Aneurism, successfully treated hy compression. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, p. 531. CniTciiETT.—Pq/zZ/VraZ Aneurism, cured hy pressure in twenty-one days. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 28th, p. 333.