114. heport on the institutes of mjjdicine. lateral have attached the aryteno-npiglottic folds. Immediately below this the epiglottis is placed in the hollow or curve formed by the hyoid bone, to the body of which it is attached by elastic tissue, and, nairowin" rapidly below this, is connected by its lower end with the retiring angle of the thyroid cartilage. Its position is thus vertical, and, so long as it remains so, it will keep tense tiie aryteno-epiglottic folds. Beveridge says that the function of the epiglottis might be shortly .stated to be the keepin.'^ open the superior opening of the larynx by its elasticity, maintaining the aryteno-epiglottic folds in a state of tension ; and when bent npon itself I)y the jerking upwards of the thyroid cartilage, to slacken these folds, and so momentarily to close that orifice during deglutition. GiBB, Dr.—Oartilages of Wrisherr/ in the Larynx of a Mom MonJcey. Trans. Path. Soc, p. 244. The author showed the larynx of a Mona monkey as exhibiting a con- siderable development of the cuneiform or Wrisbergian cartilages in the fold of mucous membrane between the arytenoid cartilages and epiglottis. These small bodies are known to be either very minute or wholly wanting in man. MuLLEH, W.—Contributions to the hnoidedge of the Ifolecular Structure of Animal Textures. Zeitschr. f. rat. Med., vol. x, p. 172. Canst., vol. i, p. 37. A detailed inquiry into the optical properties of the connective, cartila- ginous, and bony tissues, leads the author to the establishment of a new analogy between them, which is, that the primitive fibrils of connective tissue and the intercellular substances of cartilage and bone consist ol numerous monseial, positively bi-refractive structures, the principal axis of which is parallel to the long axis of their respective cellular elements. Lake, L. Coopee.—On the oltaining of Inosite. Ann. d. Cheni. u. Pharm., vol. cxvii, p. 118. Schmidt, vol. 110, p. i, 1861. The method recommended by the author is'to add three or four times the volume of alcohol to the boiling liquid under examination, to filter from the precipitate, and put the clear hquid aside during twenty-four hours, by the end of which time a quantity of the inosite will have crystallized. To the liquid is then added ether, until it becomes somewhat milk3'-, and after again standing twenty-four hours, all the remaining inosite will have crystallized. By ibllowing this method the author has obtained inosile from the brain, spleen, pancreas, and lung of the ox. Boedeker also obtained inosite from the brain of the pig. De Ltjoa, S.—On /he Trnnitformaiion into Suf/rir of the Sh'n of the Silh worm. Compt. rend., July i ';th, 1861, p. 103. By the repeated treatment of the skin of the silkworm with mineral acids, De Luca has obtained a white substance possessing many of the characters of vegetable starch. It is non-nitrogenous, becomes blue on tl)e addition of iodine, and is readily transformed into sugar, which reduces the oxide of copper and combines with chloride of sodium to form a cr^'stalliz- able salt of the following composition :—2C,oH,oO,2, 2II0 + NaCl.