GEXEKAL SYSTEM. 131 This consists in fin enduring white stripe, produced by pressure with any hard substance on the skin occupied by the eruption. Bouchut attributes this to au increase of the contractile power of the capillaries pro- portionate to the intensity of the disease, the regularity of the eruption, and the amount of vital power. M'Nab, J.—0)1 the Therapeutic Action of Sesquicarb. Amman, in Scarlet Fever. Edin. Med. Jour., October. M'Nab finds this remedy very beneficial in all forms of the disease, both as a gargle and internally. The former is made with 5ij ad Aq. 5^]- Hammond.—Nitric Acid in Intennittent Fever. Maryland and Virginia Med. Jour., February, i86i. Amer. Jour, of Med. Sc., April, i86i. He states that nitric acid, v\x ter die, was equally successful with quinine. It cured three cases which had resisted quinine. In enlarged spleen it is also very useful. Livingstone.—OnFever in the Zambesi. Med. Times and Gaz., June 29th. Livingstone has found the following treatment invariably successful:— At first. Calomel, Jalapi resinse, aa gr. viij ; Quinse, Rhei, aa gr. iv. M. et ft. massse in pil., sit dosa gr. x—.\x. The violent headache, pains in the back, &c., all are relieved in from four to six hours, and with the operation of the medicine there is an enormous discharge of black bile; the patient frequently calls it blood. If the bowels are slow in acting, 5ij of salts may be given. Quinine is then given till the ears sing. The patients do not lose their strength, and are often able to pursue their journey on foot the day after the operation of the remedy. Regnauld.— On the Special Value of Quiimim. Indications for its Use in the Treatment of Intermittent Fevers. Ann. de Med, et de Chir. pratiq., 1861, p. 10. Regnauld praises highly Vinum Quinii in obstinate agues and the resulting cachexia. It acts as a tonic purgative, and cures the fever more slowly, but more surely, than quinine, and is much better borne by the stomach, Simon,—When should Quinine be administered in Ague? Ann. de Med, et de Chir. pratiq., 1861, p. 19. Simon thinks it best to give a full dose, enough to affect the hearing slightly, about five hours before the commencement of the paroxysm. In pernicious fevers, however, we must not thus wait, but bring the system as rapidly as possible under the influence of the remedy, CiiAPPLE, R. A.—Report on the Treatmetit of Intermittent Fevers by large doses, of Arsenic. Med. Times and Gaz., March 2nd, Out of 220 cases 80 were treated with quinine, the cure being effected witli from eight to twenty-four grains; t4o were treated with Liq. Pot Ars^nuis, of these 85 were cured, and 55 had to resort to quinine. The arsenic was most successful when given in doses of -[^ xxx—xl 2dis horis ad vices tres. 59 being cured out of 87 treated; while with m xx doses at the same rate, 26 cures were obtained out of 5,3 cases. The large doses aid noo produce intestinal derangement.