107 VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. of warmth, which is less hazardous than its undue elevation, we possess a means of producing at pleasure various monstrosities. The effect of un- favorable mechanical conditions in giving rise to malformations is minutely detailed and delineated in the work, which then takes up the subject of the abnormities of unhatched eggs and the development of their embryoes. The book is accompanied by numerous lithographs. Jageb, Gr.—On the Sjponta7ieous Disintegration of the Fresh-water Poh/ps, loith some remarks on Alternate Generation. Sitzungsber. d. Wiener Acad., vol. xxxix, p. 321. Canst., vol. i, p. 203. This inquirer states that the mature Sydra grisea falls, in autumn, into a number of separate cells, which are afterwards multiplied by division, are presumed to become encysted, and perhaps in the spring give rise to new polyps. You>'G, Edwaed Pahkee.— Complete Transposition of all the Thoracic and Abdominal Viscera. Lancet, June apth, p. 630. The case was that of a lady, aged eighty-five, who had, previous to her deatli, with the exception of a slight cold, enjoyed good health, and who was found dead in her room. On opening the thorax and abdomen, a complete transposition of all the organs presented itself. The heart lay with its base towards the left side of the spinal column, the apex pointing towards the right side, and reaching to the lower border of the fourth rib under the right mamma. The vense cavse were situated on the left side, ])assing into the pulmonary cavity of the heart, which was also on the left side; the aorta and systemic ventricle to the right; so that not only was the heart reversed in position, but also in formation. The left phrenic vein was lying on the superior vena cava; the right innominate was seen passing over the aorta to the left, and emptying itself into the superior vena cava. The lungs were healthy, but old pleuritic adhesions existed on both right and left sides, especially the former. The larger lobe of the liver was in close proximity to the left ribs, the smaller lobe extending only slightly to the right of tlie sternum. The spleen was situated on the right side, just beneath the heart; the oesophagus lying to the right of the aorta. The stomach was situated on the right side, with cardiac extremity touching the ribs, and the pyloric end extending to the left side of the mesial line ; the sigmoid flexure of the colon was on the right side. The heart was healthy. VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY. Ukgee, Dr.—Botanical Letters to a Friend. With engravings. 8vo, London, 1861. SowEEBY.—(i) British Wild/lowers. Part I. To be completed in twenty monthly parts. London. (2) The Uspfil Plants of Great Britain. Part I. To be completed in twelve parts, coloured. London. Bentley, Kobeet.—.4 Manual of Botany, including the structure, func- , tions, classification, properties and uses of plants. 8vo, Loudon, 1^61, pp. 811.