GENERAL SYSTEM. 121 Meyer maintains that, by feeding animals witli potatoes, especially forcibly, so as to produce small erosions, numerous masses and globules, coloured blue by iodine, -were found in the blood. The real corpora amyloidea of the animal body are simple vesicles, not laminated like those of the vegetable. The latter only get into the body accidentally, as the above experiments show. Neumann, C.—Neio Observations on Amyloid Degeneration. Deutsche Klinik, 35, 37, 39. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 20. Neumann reports eight cases, five of whom had pulmonary phthisis, one a large hepatic abscess, one an empyema, and one was affected with tertiary syphilis. He finds amyloid degeneration for the most part asso- ciated with pulmonary phthisis and morbus Brightii. The pulmonary disease often is regressive, while severe diarrhoea, with dropsy and albu- minons urine appear. After death the liver, spleen, kidneys, intestines, and other parts, show traces of the above degeneration, especially in their small arteries and capillaries. Heynsius a.— On the Periodicity of Vital Phenomena. Arch. f. d. Holland, Beitr. zu Natur. u. Heilk., vol. ii, p. 436. Canst. Jahresb., vol. ii, p. 50. Heynsius finds, as the result of experiments, that the osmosis of liquid albumen through an animal membrane is impeded by the presence of various acids (phosphoric, lactic, acetic) in the surrounding fluid. He remarks that during the functional activity of the muscles, stomach- glands, liver, and nerves, an acid is generated, which he supposes, after the analogy of the above experiments, to diminish the amount of albumen supplied to the functioning part by the blood. The active condition of the organ is thus impeded, and a state of quiescence induced, during which the acid is neutralized by the alkaline liquor sanguinis, and so the free osmosis of albumen again permitted. He considers the above as only one of the causes of periodicity. FousTER, A.—Ore some Rare Forms of Epithelial Caiicroid. Verhandl. d. phys.-med. Gesell. zu Wiirzb., x, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb, vol. II I, p. 159. In the first form the cells of the tumour, shortly after their formation, dry up and contain air, so that the growth is specially characterised by Its dryness and lightness. In the second, complete calcification and ossi- tication IS the prominent feature. The stroma of the growth ossifies, while the cells cretify. The ossified stroma, being nourished by vessels, is capable of vital changes, as inflammation and ulceration. GENERAL SYSTEM. '^''''T:L^'~^fif^'T'' '^'f^'tory, Causes, Symptoms, Diagnosis, Pro- gnosis, and Treatment. Amer. Med. Timesf J^n. 12th.