803 ABDOMEN. Smith H —On tJie Treatment of certain forms of Prolapsus Ani, lolere tiie ligature is not admissible. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 14th, Th^'treatment recommended by Smith consists in the application of strong nitric acid to the prolapsed bowel, and the removal of folds of the loose skin from the verge of the anus. Clements, B. A.—Prolapsus Ani, tvith chronic inflammation of the Eectu'm, cured by the local application of pure nitric acid. Amer. Joiirn. of the Med. Sc., July, p. 38. Htjlke, J. '^.—Polypus of the Bectum. Med. Times and Gaz., JN ov. 30th, p. SSS- CouLSON.—2%e Treatment of Plat iTlcers of the Bectum. Lancet, Aug. 17th, p. 161. Coulson recommends regulation of the bowels with castor oil, great cleanliness, and the topical use of a mild mercurial ointment. CcBLiNG.—Extensive Ulceration of the Bectum, followed hy Stricture ; recovery. Med. Times and Graz., May i8th, p. ^21. Agneat, H.—Stricture of the Bectum. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 5th, p. 369. TuPENELL, J.—Practical remarks upon Stricture of the Becttm, espe- cially in relation to its connectioji with Fistula in Ano and Ulce- ration of the Bo wel. "With plates. Svo, Dublin, Fannin and Co., x*. Nelaton.—Burn of the Anus, folloioed by Incontinence of Faces, tuhular narroioing of the rectum. Journ. de Med. et de Chir., vol. xxxii, 8th part, August, p. 348. The usual folds of skin were absent, the anus was simply a hole in the middle of a dense, resisting cicatrix. The finger passed within it entered a cavity filled with faeces, which Nelaton regarded as a pouch of mucous membrane drawn downwards through the natural anus by the contraction of the scar communicating with the gut above, and opening through the scar externally. Nelaton supposed that in defe- cation some of the contents of the rectum were retained in this cavity, from which they were afterwards expelled by the movements of the patient. ! CoTJLSON.—Syphilitic Abscess ending in Fistula in Ano. Lancet, Aug. ; 20th, p. 135. Chisholm, J. J.—A sure mode of ensuring the proper healing of Anal FistulcE after incision; avoiding the necessity of daily plugging the XKOund, which is so troublesome to the surgeon and so painful to the 2)atient. Amer. Med. Times, April 13th, p. 239. This co'nsists in thoroughly painting the incision, throughout its entire extent, with perchloride of iron. Wood, J. E.—Cancerous Disease of the Bectum. Amer. Med. Times , MAj 18th, p. 329. > Schtjitzlek, J.—A case of Cancer of the Bectumi and Artificial Anus. Deutsche Klin., 22, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., yoI. 109, No. 5, p. 202.