350 EE PORT ON SIIDWIFERY, ETC. GovtTRO\.—Ccesarean Oj)evation J success. Gaz. des II6p„ Sent srd 1861. 1 ■ • The woman was rachitic ; arm presentation ; waters escaped ; version impossible. Levy, Prof.—Case of Ocesarean Section. Bibliot. for Laeg., Oct., i860, p. 331. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 318. The operation was rendered necessary by the presence of complete closure of the os uteri and vagina, the result of ulceration and cicatriza- tion, the nature and cause of which was doubtful, at the sixtli month of pregnancy. The operation was performed at the full time. The child extracted alive. The mother died two days after. Edmunds, James.—On a case of Ccesarean Section. Lancet, Jan. 5th, 1861, p. 4. The patient's age was thirty-eight. There was hard cancer of the 03 and cervix uteri, and the patient had been six days in labour without any dilatation of the os occurring. The placenta was situated in front, but was rapidly cut through. The child and the mother both lived ; the wound was united on the eleventh day. There was severe peritonitis, treated simply. No mercury or brandy were given. Hess.—Ceesarean Section successful for Mother and Child. Nass. Med. Jahrb., 1859, p. 705. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 193. Patient, set. 41, had been delivered naturally three times ; in a fourth also naturally, but had been ill for three years. Glisczynski.—Report of a successful case of Ccesarean Section. Mon. f. Geb., Feb., 1861, p. 81. The patient, a primipara, had been three days in labour; the conjugate diameter was two inches; contraction due to rachitis (between the ages of three and seven). It was considered impossible to deliver, even after per- foration and lessening of the head. The opei'ation was performed under chloroform. The patient would not give her consent to the operation, and the friends only reluctantly assented to its performance. The child (a boy) and the mother were saved. Hjort, Prof.—Case of Ccesarean Section. Hygiea, March, 1861. Schmidt, vol. Ill, p. 318. The patient had been previously delivered instruraentally, the labour having been very severe. The conjugate diameter was 2-5" It was intended to induce premature labour, but the reckoning was difficult, and the patient went her full time. Cscsarean section was performed. The mother died twenty-one days after. The child, a male, weighing lbs., was extracted alive, and preserved. Kergaradec—0« the duty of performing the Ccesarean Section after the Death of the Mother. (Acad, de Med.) Arch. Gen., Feb., 1861, p. 241. I BiNANT.—On the Post-mortem Cesarean Operation. Gaz. des H6p.». 1 April i6th, 1861. Binant records a second case of post-mortem Csesareau section, m