109 SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. Davt, Dr. John.—On Sudden Change of Colour of Human Hair. Ti-aiis. Brit. Assoc., 1861. (JoRE, George.—PreUminarij Note on the production of Vibrations and Musical Sounds hj Electrolysis. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 44, p. 177. lioBERTS, Dr. WiM. (Manchester).—0/i the Histology of a recurring Fibroid Tumour. Archiv. of Med., Oct., 1861, p. 66. BuROW.—On the Preservation of Bodies hy Acetate of Alumina. Deutsche Klinik, i860, No. 8. LuDWiG, C.—On the Atmospheric Air in the Human Organism. Wiener Med. Wochen., March, i860, p. 207. Stricker, "\V.—The Action of Lightning on the Human Body. Virchow's Archiv, vol xx, i860, p. 45. Graham, Thomas (Master of the Mint).—Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 44, p. 243. Ill last' Year Book,' page 5, we called attention to a new method of chemical analysis by spectrum observations of a delicacy hitherto unknown. At present we have to bring under the notice of our readers another new method of chemical investigation, which is applicable in various ways to medical research. Graham lias discovered a means of separating crystalline salts, such, for example, as arsenic, from non-crystallizable organic mixtures, by a method to which he has given the name of dialysis. It is founded upon the unequal diffusibility of different substances in water. Indeed, according to Graham, there are two great divisions of chemical substances with distinctive properties. The first, or diffusive class of substances, are marked by their tendency to crystallize, either alone or in combination with water. When in a state of solution they are held by the solvent with a certain force, so as to affect the volatility of water by their presence. The solution is generally free from viscosity, and is ahvaj-s sapid. Their reactions are energetic and quickly effected. This is the class of crystal- loids. The other class, of low diffusibility, may be named colloids, as they appear to be typified by animal gelatine. They have little, if any, tendency to crystallize. In their chemical reactions the crystalloidal ajjpears the energetic form, and the colloidal the inert form, of matter. Among the colloids rank hydrated silicic acid and a number of soluble, hydrated, metallic peroxides, of which little has hitherto been known ; also starch, the vegetable gums and dextrin, caramel, tannin, albumen, and vegetable and animal extractive matters. The material for analysis is placed on a gutta-percha sieve with a vegetable-parchment bottom, and the sieve put into distilled water; in the space of twenty-four hours or more the crystallizable substance has passed through the membrane, the non-crystallizable substance remaining behind. Dialysis proves highly useful in separating arseiiious acid and metallic poisons from organic fluids. Defibrinated blood, milk, and other organic fluids, charged with a few milligrammes of arsenious acid, and placed upon the dialyser, are found to impart the greater proportion of the arsenious acid to the external water in the course of twenty-four hours. The diffusate is so free from organic matter that tiie metal can be readily precipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen, and the quantity weighed.