heport on toxicology and materia medica. 420 or physiological antidotes to strychnia, and after pointing out the benefi- cial action of vomiting in the case related, and the conclusions of Dr. Harley as to influence of strychnia in destroying the capability of the blood to support respiration, concludes that " we have in vomitiug a real and true antidote to poisoning by strychnia," a means of combating those "morbid cfTects of the poison which are said to tend to death—the diminished capacity of the blood for oxygen and the consequent falling of the animal heat." Harley, Tarleton.—Fatal case of Poisoning by three grains of Strych- nitie in a hoy aged twelve years. Lancet, Nov. i6th. In this case the patient had, out of childish mischief, taken a pill con- taining three grains of strychnia, from a box of such pills employed for poisoning dogs. From the facts related it appears that cramps came on about two hours and a half after swallowing the pill. Death occurred about forty minutes later, consciousness remaining unimpaired to the last. In one of the intervals the patient distinctly confessed having taken the pill. The prolongation of the period of latency in this case may be accounted for by the fact that the pills, which were made with mucilage, had been prepared for eight months. Harley.—Fatal case of Strychnine Poisoning in a girl aged eleven years. Lancet, Oct. 26th. The patient, first seen at seven p.m. on the 6th June, i860, was "in a violent tetanic spasm" (trismus and opisthotonos). On recovering, her intellect was clear; she willingly and easily swallowed an emetic of sulphate of zinc, and admitted that she had taken a quantity of strychnia. Vomiting was produced, after which she lay on her back with her eyes closed. On raising the eyelids to ascertain the state of the pupils (which were natural) a violent spasm was induced, the patient at the same moment crying out: "Hold my legs, hold my legs! I am dying, I know I am !" Daring the attacks, which rapidly succeeded each other and gradually increased in severity, the pupils were dilated and the countenance became livid. During the last convulsion the lividity was extreme, and the muscles of the chest were so firmly contracted that the respiratory movements were completely arrested. The spasm passed off, but the heart had ceased to beat. Death was followed immediately by rigor mortis, commencing with the muscles of the hands and arms. The most important facts revealed by the examination of the body, which took place forty hours after death", were the following:—Lividity of the fingers and nails; bright-scarlet colour of the thighs and arms on the inside; rigid extension of the legs ; firm clenching of the hands and arching of the feet; fluidity of the blood ; flaccidity and emptiness of the heart; con- gestion of the lungs ; absence of any abnormal appearance in the diges- tive organs. It was ascertained that the patient, after taking the poison, sat down at table, poured out tea for her father, eat and talked in her usual manner, until the spasms commenced. Strychnine administered by mistake. Brit. Med. Journ., vol. ii, p. 400. Strychnia was administered by direction of a medical practitioner in mistake for santonine. The child became convulsed in half an hour, and