118 EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. MuLLEii, II.—On some peculiar Discoid Corpuscles, and their relulion to Connective Tissue. Verhandl, d. pbysilc. med. Ges, zu Wiirzb., X, i860. Schmidt's Jalirb., vol. iii, p. iijo. Neumann, E.—On the Bevelopme7it ofneio Formations. Virch. Arcliiv xXj I, 3. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 11 j, p. 159. Wagneb, E.—Pft;3!7/a?'7/ Cystoid Tumour of'the Base of the Brain. Archiv d. Ileillc, ii, i, 1861. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. iii, p. 1159. Sand.—Hydatid Cyst from the Neck, conlaininy Echinococci. Amer. Med. Times, June 8th, Hasse, C.—Anatomico-pathological Studies of Hydro-meningocele. lb., Aug. 3rd. Aldekson and Mackenzie.—Remarkable case of Mollities Ossium in a Woman cet. 40, the mother often children; fatal result; state of the bones after death. Lancet, Oct. ^th. KUHN.—Transmission of Cancer by Inoculation {accidental) from an Ox to Man. Lond. Med. Rev., Aug., 1861. Litzmann, C, C. T.—Contributions to the Knowledge of Osteomalacia. Edin. Med. Journ., Nov., 1861. Remak.—On the Endogenous Origin of Pus- and Mucus-cells. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1861. Virch. Arch., vol. xx, parts i and 2. Walemann, II.—Three Cases of Acephalo-cyst-sacs. Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Nov., 1861. Wochenbl. d. Zeitsch. der k. k. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte in Wien. Samuel, S.—The Trophic Nerves. Leipzig, Wigand, i860. Canst. Jahresber., vol. ii, pp. 53—57. Samuel argues for the existence of fibres, distinct from the motor of muscles and vessels, and from the sensory, which preside over nutrition, and are divisible into a centrifugal and centripetal set. The former, when excited, increase nutrition ; when paralysed, decrease it. Paralysis of the centripetal fibres is regarded by Samuel as the cause of the diminished resisting power (to injuries, &c.) of ansesthetip parts. Fever and inflam- mation he explains as states of excitement of the trophic nerves. Some remarkable experiments are related in evidence of the influence of nerves over the nutrition of parts su))plied by them. Irritation of the auriculo- temporal produces (in the rabbit) an acute and intense inflammation of the whole auricle, issuing in puriform effusion, and inducing death by ex- haustion. This inflammation begins from three to six days after the operation, and is most evidently not traumatic. Irritation of the tissue in the vicinity of the sciatic nerve produced healthy suppuration along the course of the nerve and its divisions, but did not extend to the lower part of the leg and foot. The skin and muscles were not inflamed. Prolonged irritation of the sciatic nerve, on the contrary, caused prodigious swelhug and inflammation of the whole limb, with ofl"ensive sanious exudation and discoloration of the muscles. Irritation of the superior laryngeal nerves produced severe and fatal laryngitis; irritation of the recurrent had nearly the same efi'ect, while paralysis of the same nerve produced only slight hypersemia. Irritation of the gangliform plexus of the vagus, of one or both, caused general and intense pneumonia. Irritation of the pes-