TIEPOKT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 460 by M. Bouchut to be mucli promoted by tlie faulty mode of feeding which prevails among those to whom such infants are intrusted by the state for maintenance. Medical College of Nokway.—Report on the sanitary condition mid on the medical relations of Norway for 1856 and 1857. Christianin, i860. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 236. The annual death-rates for the two years were respectively i6-8 in 1856, and i6-o in 1857 ; the numbers of deaths being 25,000 and 26,000. Tiie numbers of births were respectively 48,000 and 50,000, and the vaccina- tion 35,500 and 43,000. There was no remarkable prevalence of disease, the principal epidemics being continued fever, scarlet fever, hooping- cough, and parotitis. From the inconsistency of the nomenclature and imperfection of the abstract, it is impossible to determine to what causes the sanitary superiority of Norway to England is attributable. A special report is appended on an outbreak of Asiatic cholera at Drammen; twenty-seven persons wei'e attacked, and twenty-one died. MEDICAL METEOROLOGY. Hoxjzeau.—On the normal variability of the properties of Atmospheric Air. Comptes Rendus, vol. lii. No. 16, p. 809. M. Houzeau draws attention to the variations in the bleaching power of the air at different places. Blue litmus paper exposed to the air in the country becomes completely decolorized in a few days, whereas in town it may either be exposed indefinitely without loss of colour, or at all events is bleached much more slowly than in the country. From other experi- ments it appears the bleaching power of the air varies with its power of decomposing iodide of potassium (ozone). Pasteur.—Experiments relating to Spontaneous Generatio7i. Comptes Rendus, vol. 1, p. 303.—On the origin of Ferments. Ibid., p. 849. Pasteur has made very extensive inquiries, with a view of testing the truth of the discovery of Schroder, "that the atmosphere contains an active substance, which induces the phenomena of fermentation and putre- faction, and which is decomposed by heat and arrested by filtration." His experiments establish—that the air contains at all times microscopic organized corpuscles, which may be collected by filtering it through gun- cotton, dissolving the cotton in ether, and allowing the ether to evaporate spontaneously. —■ 3* PoucHET.—Method of collecting the Corpuscles contained in a given volume of Air. Comptes Rendus, vol. 1, p. 748. M. Pouchet has investigated the " corpuscles of the air " (see preceding abstract) in a somewhat different manner. He has contrived an apparatus called an aeroscope, the action of which is to direct an extremely minute but rapid current of air against a flat disc of glass. The air-corpuscles are deposited on the glass " by precisely the same mechanism that the particles of metal are deposited on the porcelain plate in Marsh's appa- ratus," forming a little spot not more than a millimetre in diameter.