nEPOUT ON TOXICOLOGY AND IIATEHIA MEDICA. liberation of iodine, m lins been generally supposed. This follows from the observation that it is heightened by the subsequent addition of am- monia, Avhercas the brown colour produced by tlie addition of iodic acid to otlier organic compounds wliich decompose it is at once discharged by that reagent. With this modification M. Lefort recommends the iodic acid reaction as the most delicate test for morphia, being applicable to solutions containing only -j-jj J-^-gth of tlie alkaloid. VowiNKEL.—A case of Poisoniny hy Opium; leffal jvoceediuffs respect- iitff it. Deut. Ztsch., vol. xv, part a. Canst., vol. vii, p. 14, The author relates a case in which a child, set. 2 years, suffering from bronchial catarrh, was ordered a mixture containing tartar emetic, cherry- laurel water, and tincture of opium. After six doses the child died. It was found that the remainder of the mixture contained no antimony, but an undue proportion of opium; so much, indeed, that it was estimated that one .sixth of a grain of morphia had been taken. Death was pre- ceded by drowsiness and stupor, terminating in coma and paralysis of the sphincters. After death tlie blood was found fluid ; the membranes of the brain were congested, and there was much effusion in the ventricles. There were also extensive adhesions of the left pleura, and tiie right lung was partially impenetrable to air in consequence of compression {(italectasis) of the upper lobe. The mucous membrane of the bronchial tubes was injected to their smallest ramifications, which contained red and frothy mucus. The evidence showed that tincture of opium had been inadvertently substituted for antimonial wine. Zepuder.—Case of acute Poisonirig by Morphia in a child of eleven weeks. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, No. 14, 1861. A female infant, set. eleven weeks, received at about nine p.m., by mis- take, one twelfth of a grain of acetate of morphia. Sleep followed almost immediately, and continued, interrupted by convulsions, till next morn- ing. The face was dusky, the lips livid, the pupils contracted, and the countenance staring. Emetics were given without effect, and strong coffee, both by the mouth and in injections, at short intervals. Sleep con- tinued till evening, still interrupted by paroxysms of tetanic convulsions (opisthotonos^. Leeches were then applied to the mastoid processes,.after wliich the spasms ceased, and the child slept quietly. Next morning it was well. Duncan.—Accidental Poisoning by Opium. Lancet, June 29th. A lady, set. 6^, took, at 8.40 p.m., about an ounce and a half of laudanum by mistake for a purgative draught. The patient was seen by Dr. Duncan half an hour after, when she was perfectly conscious. Copious vomiting was induced by scruple doses of sulphate of zinc in warm water, and the stomach-pump was used. During the action of (he emetic fatal syncope was several times threatened. An hour after the accident, narcotism came on ; the usual expergefacient treatment was maintained for twelve hours, and beef tea was injected at intervals. After this the patient became capable of being roused, but there was extreme prostration, so that death appeared imminent. Under an appropriate treatment she eventually recovered.