RKl'OltT OX SURGEEY. Clements, ]B. A..—Communicctlion of Secondary 8i/phiUs; Irammission of iufection from a secondari/ sore. Amer. Journal of the Med. Sc., July, p. 40. ' ViENirois. A.—On the transference of Si/jjhilis in Vaccination. Archiv. Gen., 3 si'r, xv, p. 641 ; xvi, pp. 32, 297 ; June, July, Sept., i860. Schmidt'tt, Jalirb., vol. 109, jNo. i, p. 50. IVom the retrospect of the cases which have been recorded since the commencement of the present century the author tries to show that in numerous instances syphilis has been observed to follow vaccination. That vaccination of a healthy person with lymph unmixed with blood, taken from a person with syphilis, is productive of the vaccine pustule only, but that if blood be mixed with the lymph then both vaccine and syphilis are communicated. An artificial mixture of vaccine lymph with chancre pus produces the same results as the mixture of lymph and syphilitic blood. Lawglebert.—Chancre 2y>'oduced hy tlie transfer of forms of Secondary Syphilis. Gaz. des Hop., 85, 94, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109. No. I, p. 51. Agneav, 'A.—Tertiary Syphilis. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 5th, p. 367. DmoN.—Frima)'y Syphilitic Vlcer of the loioer Uyelid; treatment ly mercurials ; recovery. Medical Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 471. Adams.—Chancre on the lower Lip; constitutional symptoms. Med. Times and Gaz., May iith, p. 49,5. WoEMALD and Qoot^.—Primary Syphilitic Sore of the upper Lip; enlarged cjland under the angle of the jaiv; recovery under the use of mercury. Med. Times and Gaz., May 4th, p. 470. CoOTE.—C7;awcre on the Lip of a Girl, ivith suUingual Bubo. Lancet, March 23rd, p. 288. Two thirds of the upper lip were occupied by an excavated ulcer, with a hard base and true syphilitic aspect. Conjointly with the ulcer a swelling appeared beneath the lower jaw, on the right side, which, March i6th, fluctuated and contained pus. There was also a second lesser swelling on the left side of the jaw. The reporter considered these genuine syphilitic buboes, but added that no venerea^history could be obtained from either the patient or her mother. Adams and Maundee.—TZ/ree ca.ses of Indurated Chancre of the Lip. Lancet, Nov. i6th, p. 475. GuliBix A —Practical Bemarhs on the Treatment of Bubo. Bull. Gen. de Therapeutique, June. Echo. Med., No. 18, Sept., p. 641. Gu^rin tells us that inflammatory or virulent bubo may be cured without suppuration, which it is never too late to prevent. His ti-eat- inent consists in the application of blisters coup sur coup. Lanze lyr.—Chromic Acid for 2mnted Fig-tvarts and Warts. Deutsche Klin. 32, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. i, p. 41- Lanze applied chromic acid to pointed fig-worts in thirty-two women,