UEPOUT ON SURGEEY. 2G0 of the climtse, i^c. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Uep., Marcli 16th, p. 644. The ieinur had been fractured eight mouths previously ; union did not take place, and the limb was three and a half inches shorter than its fellow. Attempts were made to procure union by extension, appo- sition of the ends of the bone, and occasional irritation. After three months Pancoast sawed oiF the ends, and then, making the fresh ends overlap, drilled them and bound them together with a silver wire. In doing this it was found that the fractiu-e had run across the nutrient forearm and destroyed the artery, in consequence of which the upper fragment had undergone atrophy, and had become hollowed into a large cavity. At the end of five months there was still no union, and the limb was amputated. DolmAjS', a. II.—Amputation through the Knee-joint. Brit. Med. Jouru., June 15th, p. 628. The operator, M. Pearn, made a long anterior and a short posterior flap, and left the patella. Tenderini, J.—Simultaneous Amputation of hoth Legs and the Itight Arm. Griorn. della E. Acad, di Med. di Torino, 28 Pevr. Echo Med., No. 8, April, p. 207. The patient, a lad of seventeen, made a very rapid recovery. Hutchinson.—Statistical Report of Amptdatimts helow the Knee per- formed ~in Frovincial Hospitals during i860. Med. Times and Graz., May iith, p. 492. Pancoast.—Oase of Firogoff's Operation. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Eep., April 20th, p. 64. Agnew, IE.—Amputation through the Metatarsal Bones. Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Press, Jan. 5th, p. 368. SzxiiANOWSKi, Prof—Criticism of the Partial Foot-amptitations, based on a new anatomical explanation of the Architecture of the Foot. Archiv fur Chir., vol. i, part 2, p. 366. Berlin, 1861. An elaborate ivtudy of the mechanism of the foot, with reference to the disadvantageous consequences of partial amputations. Szymanowski regards the two feet together as a dome-vault, which is only interrupted in front, and which has its bearings in the inner and lower process of the tuber calcanei, the tuberositas metatarsi v., and the ossa sesamoidea hallucis. SzTMANOWSKi, 'Svoi.—Modification of Pirogofs OsteoplastiL Med. Zt<y EussL, ID, 18^59. Schmidt, v-ol. 109, No. 2, p. 212. Szymanowski takes his flap principally from the inner side, protects the posterior tibial artery with the handle of a scalpel pushed between the vessel and the bone, saws through the malleoli from behiud or- wards, and lastly saws the calcis off straight just behind the astragalus. He begins his incision behind the outer ankle, at tlie border of tlie tendo Achillis, carries it downwards and forward, under the heel, and prolouffs it upwards over the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, m I'-ont ol the inner malleolus; the extremities of this incision are connected by a horizontal cut across the front of the ankle-joint and the outer mal-