ALKALOIDS. 419 for this method are its great simplicity and its consequent adaptability to country practice, and the certainty with which the dose is measured. ScHOLZ—0« the sub-cutaneous injection of various Alkaloids. Wieu. Med. WchnbL, vol. xvii, No. 2, 1861. Schmidt, vol. no, p. 293. The author successfully injected one to one and a half grain of acetate of morphia in nine cases as an anodyne, and one twentieth grain of vale- rianate of atropia in two cases as an antispasmodic. The injection was made by first introducing a lancet-edged needle immediately under the deep surface of the corium for five or eight lines, having previously raised the skin into a fold to avoid wounding subjacent parts, and then with- drawing the needle and immediately replacing by the tube of Anel's syringe charged with the solution. SjiMELEDER.—On the subcutaiieous injection of Alkaloids. Wien. Med. Halle, vol. ii, p. 34. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 286. This paper is a report on roore than 300 cases of various forms of neuralgia, observed by the author in the General Hospital at Vienna. A solution of five grains of acetate of morphia in a drachm of distilled water was employed. Of 'this, —20 milligrammes (= i-^Sth—i-42nd grain of morphia) were injected by a glass syringe, furnished with a steel, lancet-pointed canula, and having its graduation on the piston rod. The rod is also furnished with a stop, which screws up and down upon it, and can thus be fixed at any point, so as to limit the stroke of the piston and consequently the precise quantity delivered by the syringe, at the will of the operator. The injection is performed in the usual manner. The results were satisfactory, with one exception, in which sleep continued for fifty-four hours, interrupted by restlessness and screaming. Almost all the patients, half an hour after the application, experienced slight head- ache, vertigo, malaise, nausea, and simultaneous cessation of pain, followed by sleep; they attributed the sleep not to the narcotic action of the drug, but merely to the relief of suffering. The author concludes from his experience that subcutaneous injection is more certain and efilec- tual than the internal administration of morphia with a view to the relief of pain, but that in private practice it is liable to two drawbacks, viz.—(i) that the practitioner must always perform the injection himself; and (2) that it is impossible to guard against the occasional occurrence of very inconvenient consequences in persons who are abnormally susceptible to the action of the alkaloid. HcniiOTF.—Aconitum Lycoctonum in its pharmacognostical, toxicologicalt and historical relations. Wien. Ztsch., vol. xvii, pp. 57 and 161. Schmidt, vol. 112, p. 15. The toxicological part of this inquiry is founded on twenty-two experi- ments on rabbits. As regards the physiological action of the dru*, the author finds that the alcoholic extract of the root exercises its general action most rapidly when introduced into the peritoneal cavity, less so when injected into the cellular tissue, and least of all when taken internall3^ Its general action manifests itself in—(a) depression of the functions of respiration and circulation, either immediately or after previous excitement (manifested in increase of temperature of the ears and neighbouring parts); I