250 REPOET ON SURGERY. WoEMAiD.—of the Upper Jaw in a Lucifer-matcU Maker. Meci. Times and Gaz., July 20th, p. 57. Bryant.—Cyst in ilie Anirum; puncture on two occasions; cure. Lancet, Aug. 31st, p. 201. Ferqtjsson.—J'/6ro«s Tumour of the Antrum, extendinq through the Hard Falate into the Mouth; snccessfid removal 'Lancet, Aug 31st, p. 206." 'PA.a-ET.—Fibrous Tumour of the Antrum, with ^mhation; excision; recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., March 9th, p. 251. Peegusson.—J'/iroz/s Tumour of the Left Superior Maxilla, in- volving the Antrum, of fifteen years' growth ; successful removal. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 6. Feegussok-.—^/5ro?;s Tumoui' of the Left Superior Maxilla in- volving tlie Antrum; removal; fatal result. Lancet, Jan. 5th, r. ^ QuAiN.—Fibrous Tumour of the Superior Maxilla in a Girl; successful removal. Lancet, July 5tli, p. 9. Maisonneuye.—Enormous Ulcerating Cancer of the Face and Jaw; simultaneous removal of the left upper jaw, of the greater part of the lower jaio, and all the corresponding soft parts. Comptes rendus, No. 24, p. 50. PAlfCOAST.—Extensive Medullary Cancer of the Antnim; removal of the tmnouA' with the superior maxillary bone and soft parts. Phila- delphia Med. and Surg. Eep., Jan. 19th, p. 432. Sket.—Malignant Disease of the Upper Jatv, involving the Antrum, Nose, amd Orbit; partial removal. Lancet, Jan. 5th, p. 8. (6) The Lower Jaw. Lakgeitbeok, B.—Congenital Smallness of the Lower Jaw, associated with Anchylosis of the Jaw, cured by resection of the Coronoid Pro- cesses. Langenbeck's Archiv fur Klin. Chir., vol. i, part 2, P- 451; The patient, a lad, ^t. 17, first came under Langenbeck's notice in 1853, at which time the incisors of the lower stood behind those of the upper jaw, towards, but not quite reaching, the hard palate. There was motion in the joint, but so slight that no solid food could be passed between the teeth. After subcutaneous division of the masseter muscles and forcible separation of the ja-w^s with a speculum, under chloroform, a finger could be passed between the teeth, but no further improvement could be obtained, and the lad left Berlin. In time the mobility which had been gained was lost, so that in i860, when he returned to Langen- beck, a slight approximation of the incisors to the hard palate, and swelling of the muscles of mastication during attempts to chew, were the only evidences of movement in the joint. The lower could not at this time be separated from the upper jaw. June i6th.—Both masse- ters were completely divided (the patient having been thoroughly nar- cotized with chloroform), and the lower jaw was attempted to be forced apart from the upper with elevators, but ineftectually, though so much violence was employed that a canine tooth was loosened from its socket.