NERVOUS SYSTEM, 33 larger quautity of the proper nutritive principles of tlie flesh, which being soluble in water, become lost in boiling. Henz, Dr. II.— On some Chemical Constituents of the Brain. G-reifs- wald, i860. Caust., vol. i, p. 247. By chemical examinations of the brain of the ox, in Scherer's labora- tory, the writer established tlie presence therein of uric acid, inosite, hypoxanthin, xanthin, and lactic acid, and the absence of creatin. Peacock, Dr.—Specific Gravihj of the Brain. Lancet, June ist, p. 536. At the Meeting of the Pathological Society of the 7th May, Peacock gave an account of the specific gravity of the cerebrum in nine cases. Taking distilled water as 1000, the cerebrum, was 1034; cerebellum, 1041; pons varolii, 1040. The specific gravity of the whole brain together, 1039. One object also was to show that the brain increases in size and A^-eight after the age of seven years, although the contrary has been stated by Sir "William Hamilton. It increases up to, from the twenty-second to the twenty-fifth year of age. Stephant.— Oontrihutions to the Histology of the Cortical Substance of the Cerebrum. Dorpat, i860. Canst., vol. i, p. 65. The matrix of the cortical substance of the cerebrum, hitherto regarded as finely granular, is resolved by this -writer into a network of fine filaments, terminatiug in the form of a membrane on the surface of the brain, and loosely enveloping free nuclei and other cells. The filaments of this network are connected both with the outrunners of cells and vdth nerve-fibres. As no connexion has been traced between this system and the penetrating processes of the pia mater, the author inclines to thiuk it nervous in its natm-e. In the cortical substance of the dog's brain, he distinguishes angular and round cells, the former in- variably, the latter never, connected with the network. The broad, darlf-bordered nerve-fibres which enter the gray substance of the con- volutions, pass, after repeated divisions, into fine pale filaments, and become connected with the fibres of the matrix, whicli thus link them with the cell-processes. A\''agneii, 11.—(i) Critical and Experimental Inquiries on the Mmctiuns of the Brain. Gottinger gel. Auz., i860. No. 4, p. 2/;; No. 6, p. 49 ; No. 7, p. 65 ; No. 16, p. 176. Canst., vol. i, p. 197. (2) Introduction to a Scientific jSlorpholocjij and Bhijsiologij of the Human Brain, as an Organ of the Soul. Part i. 4to, Gottingeu, i860. Canst., ib. In the first of these treatises, the author discusses the functions of the cerebellum, the difierent degrees of convolution of the cerebrum, and the varying weight of the encephalon. The second work treats more fully of the two latter subjects, and is accompanied by an Atlas containing beautiful delineations of the brains of eminently intellectual men. His chief results are that —(i) The cerebellum is merely a motor organ, regulating the locomotive act, capable of exciting contrac- tion in the abdominal viscera, and operating directly on the heart. (2) The cerebral convolutions possess in man a type of arrangement to Avliich only tliat found in the quadrumaua can be compared. There is an 3