83 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. gastric gas consists of nitrogen derived from atmospheric air, the oxygen of which in great measure disappears, and is replaced by two volumes of carbonic acid. (2) In the small intestine fermentation sets in, attended with the evolution of equal volumes of hydrogen and car- bonic acid, which are less abundant with animal than with vegetable food. In digestive derangements, the carbonic acid and hydrogen may be as 2 : 1. Tree acid retards the hydrogen fermentation. (3) In the large intestine carbonic acid only is developed, except with an animal diet, when sulphuretted hydrogen (never exceeding 1 per cent.) and a fetid matter are also evolved. (4) "With an animal diet the gas in the small intestine is much smaller in amount than with a vegetable diet, but in the large intestine this distinction does not exist. (5) As hydrogen is never normally present in the stomach, and the car- bonic acid gas is in proportion to the atmospheric air admitted, an excess of gas must be the I'esult of abnormal decomposition. (6) It was ob- served that, after neutralizing with magnesia a portion of the chyme of a dog which had been kept on a jmlse diet, an abundance of carbonic acid and hydrogen was evolved in the proportion of 2 : i, whilst the strongly acid chyme remained thirty-six hours before it began to de- velop a little carbonic acid. Similarly, when magnesia had been given with the food, hydrogen was found in the stomach. (7) Although gas is not secreted by the blood into the empty intestine, yet diffusion takes place between the gases of the blood and those of the intestine or its contents. Into an empty portion of intestine air was admitted, and in an hour and a half the gas was found to consist of 6'4i COg, 5"48 O, 43'37 (8) Fifteen minutes after sulphuretted hydrogen had been introduced into the large intestine, it was found in the blood. (9) After artificial faecal retention of a week's duration, it was found that the hy- drogen and sulphuretted hydrogen had disappeared and carbonic acid diminished, an observation confirming the statement that considerable collections of gas may disappear without escaping by the extremities of the alimentary canal. (10) Carburetted hydrogen was always absent. The gases found in the human intestine (post mortem) were ascertained to be similar in nature and proportion to those of the dog. Faces. Smith, Dr. JEd., and Milner. Eeport on the Influence of Prison Dis- cipline and Dietary over the Bodily Functions of Prisoners. Trans. Brit. Assoc., 1861. The authors obtained the following results from experiments upon prisoners condemned to treadwheel labour three days per week, and fed upon a full dietary, with brown bread, at Coldbath Fields: I. The average daily weight of the faeces was double of that found in ordinary life, and varied on the average of the different prisoners, from 7-1 to lo-i oz., and gave so large a total average as 8-55 oz. The extremes of single observations were 175 and 26-59 oz- The proportion to the solid food was 22^ per cent. 2 The weight was increased on Sunday by 44-3, 70 and 74 per cent. 31 that on all days. ^ 3. The. weight waa lessened on the treadwheel-days from that observed