hepout ox the institutes of medicine. 60 nnd two girls a larf^o amoiiut of water lalten caiiwed profuse diarrhoea, whioli waa aluo observed in a few adult iiialcH, after the use of the water had been long continued. AiTHAUS, Dr.—0)1 certain points connected with the Nature and Action of Mineral Waters. Lancet, Nov. 2nd, p. 422. The author pointa out how hot mineral spriugB posBesB curative properties beyond those possessed by ordinary waters at the same tem- perature, also the great benefit resulting from the presence of carbonic acid in many of these springs. The carbonic acid plays a most important part in retaining certain salts in a soluble condition, which would othei'wise be deposited, and besides, it renders the waters much more palatable. Eegarding the physiological action, the author says that, in judging of the therapeutical action of spas, the mistake is fre- quently committed of merely taking into account the principal con- stituents of the water, and of concluding from theii' known medicinal etFects upon the action of a special spa in which they predominate. A mineral water is a complex medicine, which has a peculiar mixture, a certain temperature, and in which a great variety of solid and gaseous constituents are intimately blended together. The only means by which to arrive at a satisfactory explanation of the curative effects pro- duced by them is, therefore, to study their action when administered to healthy subjects, and to draw conclusions from the physiological effects which these waters produce. Hassali, Dr. Aethttr Hill.—■ Adulterations Defected; or, plain in- structions for the discovery of frauds in food and medicine. Second edition, London, 1861, pp. 712. The author states that the object of the work is to give—ist, a description of the various adulterations to which each article of con- sumption, and many medicines, have, vip to this date, been subjected; and, 2ndly, the details of the various methods by which these sophis- tications may be discovered. The M^ork is copiously illustrated with microscopical dra^dngs of the objects described. Jacksok, Dr. C. T.—Action of Chloroform on the Blood; probable causes of its fatal effects ivhen inlialed as an anaesthetic. Boston Med.-Chir. Journ., March, 1861. Some six years ago the author reported a case of death from chloro- form, where, on analysis, the blood of the right side of the heart was foimd to contain foi'mic acid, but no chloroform. In that case the blood-corpuscles were withered up in a very remarkable manner. The chemical action of chlorofonn on the blood the author says is this :— Chloroform consists of one equivalent of formyle and three of cidorine. Formic acid consists of one equivalent of formyle and three of oxygen. When chloroform is inhaled the blood takes chlorine from, and gives oxygen to, the chloroform, thereby changing it into formic acid, and a portion of the blood is at the same time chemically changed, and rendered unfit for the purposes of nutrition. As this blood is no longer an appro- priate stimulus to the vital organs, sudden death is likelv to take place from a cessation of their action. According to Jackson, the great disad- vantage under which chlorofonnizatiou labours if, the introduction of