HONES. 361 leolus. The advantages of this modification are the certain preservation of the posterior tibial artery and its greater length, and the facility which the lateral flap affords to the escape of discharge. BouTiEB.—O'W Chopart's Amputation, tvitJi especial reference to division, of tlie Tench AcJdllis. Gaz. dea H6p., 74, i860. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 109, No. 2, p. 208. At a meeting of the Societe de Chirurgie, June 13th, i860, Bouvier, in some remarks on this operation, gave the difiiculty of avoiding elevation of the heel during the after-treatment as the principal reason ■why the operation had not been more widely accepted. This evil was observed soon after the first introduction of the operation into practice. In order to remedy it M. A. Petit cut the tendo Achillis, 1799. Ac- cording to Bouvier, the heel becomes raised in a very large number of cases, and the various modifications in forming the dorsal and plantar flaps, though not unimportant, fail to prevent it. Bouvier also con- siders the di^dsion of the tendo Achillis to be only a temporary remedy; when the cut tendon unites, the heel is again drawn up. He recommends removal of the sharp lower border of the anterior ex- tremity of the calcis, which presses the lower flap when the patient tries to walk, and causes pain. Streubel criticising Bouvier's remarks, shows that German assign a higher value to the operation than Trench surgeons, but adds that, on the whole, it has not been very frequently practised. This Jilger ascribes to surgeons being too often misled, by the upward extension of the swelliag and fistulas, into amputatiug higher than necessary. According to Jiiger and Textor, the wound is well disposed for healing, and the prognosis as regards mortality, and also the usefulness of the stump, is, in general, favorable. The heel is di-awn up less commonly and to a less extent than the French surgeons would have us believe. In successful cases the formation of a firm scar on the upper surface, intimately blended with the tendons and the plantar flap, prevents the injurious action of the muscles of the calf. The plantar flap should be large, and the tendons in both flaps should be cut long. During the after-treatment the foot should be kept at a right angle to the leg. Streubel notices the occasional super- vention of inflammation of the ankle-joint. The preventive simultaneous division of the tendo Achillis, recommended by some, is unnecessary ; its division ^yhilst the stump is acutely inflamed is also deprecated. "VVheu cicatrization begins, if the contraction of the tendon is great, its di- vision may be practised with advantage. Patients should not begin to walk too early, and should wear a carefully padded boot. BONES. Operations, Diseases, Injttnes, SCIIILLB.VCK, Ij.—Contributions to Besections of Bones. Third division, ■—Resections m the Trunk and Head. "With a lithogi-aphed plate. Jena, Manke, 1861, ix, pp. 243-438. Canstatt's Jahreab., vol. v, p. 244. 18