77 IIESPIUATORY SYSTEM. author had come to the conclusion that inflation of the lungs by Dr. Silvester's method or by the Society's apparatus is the first remedy, and the shock of the warm bath the second; that after eight minutes' complete submersion recovery is hopeless, and that when ten minutes elapse after being taken from the water without any effort at respi- ration it is equally so. On the subject of the warm bath, which has excited so much discussion as a remedy, he remarked that it must be understood that it is used as an immediate and powerful excitant; and it had so frequently happened (twice while he was actually present) that a person brought in as asphyxiated, who to the bystanders was apparently quite dead, immediately on being placed in the bath gave the sob or gasp which is the precursor of respiration, that it might be boldly stated to be a most valuable adjunct to treatment, and, properly managed, in no way pernicious. IIuji'TEK, Charles.—(i) On tlic " JlamJiall Hall" and other Methochin cases of Drowninfj. Lancet, Feb. 9th, p. 144. (2) The Hot Bath; its physiolog;/, use, and abuse; especially in connection with the treatment of JDrownim/. Lancet, vol. i, pp. 383, 430; vol. ii, pp. 132, 417. The author sti'ongly recommends the " Marshall Hall method," for he thinks ample proof can be furnished, from experimental inquiry and from well-authenticated cases, that—ist. The mere pronation is itself a most important point, having often made the difference between life and death, and. That pronation and semi-rotation effect fully sufhcient respiration for the purposes of life. Moreover, he says, pressure upon the chest of the dead subject in the supine position has caused expi- ration of air, and on removing this pressure no air has returned to the luugs; but pronation with pressure on the spine, followed by semi- rotatioi], has been accompanied by both free expiration and inspiration. In the second communication, after relating several experiments, and comparing them with the results of other observers, the author gives the following conclusions:—(i) That hot air applied, with or without inhalation, to the skin is not a respiratory stimulant; and (2) that very hot air oppresses the respiration. (3) That hot air, with or without inhalation, accelerates cardiac action, and the more according to the heat of the air. (4) That the ordinary ratio between heart and lung action is destroyed, and that to the diminution of the rate and power of lung action, which ouglit the most to be renewed. ( 5) That languor and muscular debility are also results. (6) That nerve power generally is diminished. (7) That thougli the skin may be heated, there is no physiological increase of the animal heat. And with regard to the water bath, the conclusions are even more imfavorable, for— («) It is a cardiac stimulant, and (h) a direct depressor of respi- ratory action to a much greater extent than hot air is, and therefore more injuriously so; for, besides preventing cool air playing on the surface of the body, it impedes cuticular transpiration and persjiiration, which miyht cool the body in some measure. And, what is still more injurioiis, (c) it causes the respiration to be even more difficult than