DISEASES OF -VTOMEX. 367 Tanner, Dr.—On the Treatment of Intra-uterine Fibrous Tumours. Lon d. Med. Rev., July, 1861. The author relates six cases of fibrous tumour of the uterus growing into the cavity of the same, and of a more or less polypoid form. In the first case a fibrous tumour of eight years' duration, was removed, and the patient cured. A second case was also successful, the tumour being small. Ill the third case an attempt to remove the tumour failed, and death occurred. In the fourth a firmly attached tumour was successfully removed ; in the fifth an attempt to remove the tumour failed. In the last case death occurred from hsemorrhage, a small fibrous tumour being present, and no attempt at removal liaving been made. There was an external cystic growth present in this instance. LuMPE.—Unusual termination of a Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus. Wien. Aerzt. Zt., i860, 29. Ed. Med. Journ., Feb., 1861. The tumour, of considerable size, was observed gradually to diminish, and calcareous concretions from time to time escaped from the vagina. Harper, Philip.—Instruments for removing Fibrous Tumours of the Uterus. Lancet, March 23rd, 1861, p. 292. Latjnay.—Hypertrophic Elongation of the sub-vaginal portion of the Uterine Cervix, complicated ivith Fibrous T'umour. Gaz. des Hop., Aug. loth, 1861. RoKlTANSKY, Prof. — On new formation of Uterine Glands in Uterine and Ovarian Sarcoma. Ztsht. d. Gesellsch. d. Aerzte zu Wien, 37, i860. Rokitansky finds on the surface of polypi uterine glands, either en- larged or new formations : these may change into cysts, and between them the sarcomatous tissue grows. Lee, Dr. Robert.—Further obsei-vations on the Structure and Treatment of Uterine Polypi. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv, p. 73. A history is here presented of 105 cases of uterine polypi, being all which have ever come under the author's observation. Of ninety-three cases operated on, eight died and eighty-five recovered. The operation performed was that of applying a ligature round the pedicle of the polypus. The particulars and history of each case are given in a tabulated form. Duncan, Dr. J. Matthews.—Large Uterine Polypus. Ed. Med. Journ., April, 1861, p. 954. The patient was single, set. 47. The tumour measured 5^" by 4!". It was removed by traction, the pedicle separating as the tumour was being drawn down. Smith, Dr. Tyler.—Instrument for the removal of Polypi in the Uterus. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. It is essentially the instrument of Gooch, but made of steel, and therefore much stronger and capable of carrying wire, which is used with it instead of cord. Hicks, Dr. Braxton.—iVew Instruments for the removal of Uterine Polypi. Obst. Trans., vol. iii. The principle of the instruments consists in the adaptation of rope made