465 OCCUPATION. fibre (hncklers of flax, sorters of wool and alpaca, operatives employed in the ninnufacture of waste silk and in the carding-rooms of cotton factories, wool-combers) ; (2) those in which poisonous or injurious gases are inspired ; and (3) those which are necessarily carried on in "an over- heated and highly dried atmosphere" (flat-pressers and some other workers in the potteries). The principal conditions which were found to exer- cise an indirect influence as causes of pulmonary disease were—(i) habitual exposure to a hot and exceedingly moist atmosphere (slip-makers in pot- teries and flax-spinners); (2) working in ill-ventilated and over-heated factory rooms; (3) exposure to vicissitudes of temperature; (4) con- strained posture; (5) long hours combined with a sedentary occupation ; and (6) over-crowded dwellings. Seejiann.—On the Chronic Diseases of Weavers (Weber und Posamen- tiere). Henke, vol. xxiv, p. 205. After remarking on the frequency of chronic diseases among those who work at the loom, and the general causes of the unwholesomeness of tliis kind of occupation, the author treats of the various forms of disease to which weavers are liable as follows :—(i) Diseases of the respi- ratory organs. Among the weavers at Berlin there is almost universally alteration of the voice, which is associated with redness of the mucous membrane of the pharynx and epiglottis. In a certain number this is followed by chronic laryngitis, and in such persons there is a marked proclivity to repeated attacks of bronchitis, not, however, of any special character. The author finds the prevalent lung disease among weavers to be bronchial catarrh with emphysema, wliich does not commonly originate in the manner above described, but develops itself so insidiously in the course of years that the patient is unable to recall the commencement of his symptoms. The author traces these afiections to two causes, viz., the difi"usion in the atmosphere of the working-rooms of innumerable minute fibres, and the constant habit of the weaver, each time he fills his shuttle, to draw through the thread by a sucking action of the mouth, in doing which he inspires a quantity of the fibrils wliich collect in the orifice of the shuttle as the thread is running out. He finds that by discontinuing this practice, weavers get rid of their cough and hoarseness. (2) Diseases of the organs of digestion. Weavers complain of constant, dull, oppressive pain at the epigastrium, of feeling of satiety or even of repletion after small quantities of food, and of heartburn with pyrosis in the intervals, often so violent as to interrupt the patient in his work. These symptoms are usually accompanied with constipation and haemorrhoids. They are partly attributable to the swallowing of particles of thread, often dyed with injurious pigments, but are probably more directly dependent on the constant pressure against the epigastrium, and the often repeated knocks which the region of the stomach receives from the beam, especially in carpet work. To relieve gastralgia, the weaver has recourse either to spirituous liquors or to the chalk which he uses in his occupation (for the purpose of smearing his fingers when engaged in joining the tlircnds). The latter removes pain, but frequent recourse to it eventually aggravates the disease. A further very important cause of derangement is the impregnation of the atmosphere with the lead-dust