sMDXVIII TEXS^,———tfc.ENGRAVINGS, EXPLAINING THE ANATOMY OF THE BONES, MUSCLES, and JOINTS. B X JOHN BELL,, Surgeon. EDINBURGH: PRINTED BY JOHN PJTERS0N-, FOR BELL AND BRADFUTE, AND T. DUNCAN; AND J. JOHNSON. AND G. G. G. & J. ROBINSONS, LONDON. MDCC XCJV,Cntecefc in itofoturg $all. ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS LIBRARY CLASS 6/r 7 ACCN. nq? ? SOURCE * * f DATE191. line 4. for fubftained read fuftained. 101. line 16. for Styloid mufcle read Styloid procefs. In a Book containing fo many thoufaiid technical terms, it will not be particular though the Student fiiould find more to correct than what is here put down.—But thefe are fome of the chief errata; and, fince many of them affeft the fenfe, the Student fhouid touch them with the pen before he begins to read. E R R r°ge 4 line 7. for flretches read unites it. 8. line I. for lefs read leffcr. 31. line 15. for 4 lead 6. 35. line 13. for futures read future. Ibid, line 13. 'for feparate readfeparates. Ibid, line 14. for (Ethmoid readClinoid. 54. line 20. for d. d. read z. z. 55. line 17. for Pubis read I fell ill m. 69. line 22. for inner read outer. 72. line 7. for Radius read Humerus. 97 line 15. for cartilages read cartilage. Ibid, lines 18, 19 for 44. 45. 46. read 54. 53. 56. 98. line 4. for ix. read X. 100. line I. for Sterno-hyoideus read Sterno-thyroideus. Ibid, line 22. for Arytenoideus obliquus read Arytenoi- deus lateralis A T A. Page no. lin. tilt, for uncovered by the (kin read uncovered of the dun. 119. line 7. dele Below the fpine is feen the Infra- fpinatus. 134. line 6. for where read whence. 146. line 14. for d.d. read b.b. 156. line 18. for iii. read iv. 459, line 2. from foot, for 188. read 186. 168. line 7, for Coraco brachialis read Biceps, 173. line 4. for Wl'ift read ere ft. 174. line 7. for cancellse read lamella. 175. line 6. for (g) read (9). 177. line 15. for (m) read («). Ibid, line 21. for (,;) read (m). 190 line 2. for outer read inner. Ibid, line 10. dele often■w-'. i’ ■ ■ V - • •' i i y I i\V.h<\ n ■ ‘ . w : K-i ■ixW ■ •-/ • f : 1 * 1 ; _ *. ; !->-) «j4jf - > ■< > *• * ■T 0 D„ DANIEL RUTHERFORD, PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE AND BOTANY, AND PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, EDINBURGH, S I R, In preferring this Book of Plates to one who is fo well able as you are to judge of their defedfs, I ought to add fome value to the offering, by declaring the motives of it.—It is a mark of gratitude for the friendly care with which, in company with my worthy Mafter, you watched over me during a long and dangerous illnefs. Perhaps there can be no higher compliment betwixt medical men, than this confidence in time of ficknefs; and furely, if I may judge from my own feelings, nothing can be more grateful than the remembrance of kindneffes be- llowed at fuch a time.- May your fkill be long ufeful to your fellow- citizens 5 and may it be always valued as I value it. I am, S I R, With refpedt, Your Friend, and Humble Servant, JOHN BELL.■ ' ■ . V tTREF^CE. w HEN a young man, who had been blind from his childifli years, had his fight reftored to him by our celebrated fur° geon Chesselden, all his thoughts, and feelings, and pleafures, and pains, were very interefting to his friends; for that moft de- lightful of all our fenfes was to him as a dream of fairy vifions, confufed, yet delightful, beyond all that the fancy can conceive. “ He was like one newly born into the world, needing to learn “ anew all the objedls around him, knowing nothing by the eye, “ but all by the touch. It was long before he found out that pic- “ tures reprefented folid bodies, and then he was much furprifed “ that thole things, which to the eye feemed prominent and round, “ were to the touch quite even and flat; he afked his friends which 41 was indeed the lying fenfe, feeling or feeing.” a a Being-11 PREFACE. “ Being fhown his father’s pidure in a locket,.at his mother’s “ watch, and told what it was, he acknowledged a likenefs, but “ was vadly furprifed ; afking, how it could be that a large face C! could be exprefled in fo little room; faying, it fliould have feemed as impofhble to him, as to have put a bufhel of any thing into a pint. Now there are many, who having enjoyed and ufed this precious fenfe during all their lives, have never come to know, like this young man, that, even within the narrowed circle, the reprefenta- tion is as perfedd and true, as in the full fize of the human body ; foolifhly imagining that nothing can be drawn but of its natural fize. If a man were to take this fancy, that nothing of anatomy could be drawn but of the full fize of life, with what high contempt mud he look down upon thefe little plates ; where I have endea- voured to reprefent, in this miniature form, what it mud be con- feffed, might be more fully reprefented on a larger fcale: and yet I am fenfible, that thofe, who cannot underdand thefe plates, will hardly profit even by that dately anatomical figure of full fix feet high, which, being cut in copper, with googes, and chif- fels, and mallets, and all kinds of indruments, mud edablifh a re- putation for its author; which, if not High, will not fail to be at lead of a lading kind ; neither apt to be forgotten, nor liable, like other difcoveries, to go adray. Asin PREFACE. “ As I proceeded in writing a book of anatomy, I felt more “ and more, at every ffcep, the neceffity of giving plates to it for a book of anatomy without thefe feemed to me no better than a book of geography without its maps ; it was, in my mind, like teaching mathematics without diagrams, or folving Euclid’s pro- blems without the help of figures or lines, by the mere force of imagination alone. Indeed any one, who, fludying without fome help of plates, tries to underhand and to remember an anatomical defcription with no other reprefentation than words merely, will feel, that he is like one attempting to work a rule of arithmetic without the ufe of cyphers, trying to remember the value and denomination of each part throughout the whole train of num- bers ; he is ingenious in difficulties, making an abftradt fubjedl of one belonging to the fenfes chiefly, and attempting to obtain by words, thofe ideas which mufl come to him only through the eye.. It was while I was writing anatomical defcriptions that I firfl thought of drawings, and of placing my fubjedls in thofe very fhapes and poRures in which they were explained :—and I conceiv- ed, that the defcriptions and the drawings might thus be wrought into one perfect whole; being as two parts of one idea, or as one idea prefented in a double form, once to the eye, and once again fokhe ear. If, in any material points, my drawings and defcriptions fhall thus agree, then mufl the ideas be made out to my reader clear and fair; and fhould infinuate themfelves into his mind without labour or a 2 thoughtPREFACE. IV thought on his part; while he is not toiling from defcriptions to drawings ; not harraffed with continual interruptions, incongruous ideas, parts defcribed but not reprefented, or reprefented and not defcribed ; not travelling far and wide from the ideas of one au- thor, to the reprefentation of another; never trying to affociate ideas which have no affinity, nor ftriving to bring drawings and de- fcriptions together which are as far, as may be, from being parts of the fame idea, or from being capable of that clofe comparifon which the ftudent feeks, and miffes with a difappointment which is continually renewed. Such mufl be the ftudent’s labour, (a labour which might well opprefs the moft active mind,) if the teacher be not careful to preferve for him this correfpondence of ideas; whether he be employed in comparing his lecture with the fubjedt lying before him, or his drawings with his book. From the firft dawnings of anatomical knowledge, or at leaft from the very earliefl invention of anatomical plates, this vitious practice has prevailed, that each author, carelefs of this correfpond- ence of ideas ; never thinking of the harmony that ought Hill to fublift between thofe notions which are to be conveyed by words, and thofe which fpeak to the eye, in the truer language of this fub- jedt; intending merely to write a book, and rather with the hopes of procuring himfelf a name, than with the prouder expectation of multiplying and varying the fources of inftruction, writes his bookv PREFACE. book after his own way; and takes his plates, perhaps, where he is directed by his bookfeller, or where he may mod fafely Real; and often chufing them of a fafhion fifty years older than that book, into the gaps and interfaces of which, they are to be nitch- ed and faick up, wherever they will make the handfomeft figure, not where they will be of the moft ufe. This ironical praife may be very fafely given to the older anatomiRs for their love of original drawings, that having once fet their tafte to one certain fyftem of plates, they have been very con- Rant and true to their firfi choice. It is thus that the plates of Ve- falius, Fallopius, or EuRachius, have defcended, with fome diftor- tions and abridgements indeed, but fall unpolluted with any Rain of originality, nor vitiated by any one improvement of reprefenta- tion or of thought, through the books of Vidus Vidius, Pareus, Stephanus, Blanchardus, Veflingius, Riolanus, Verhein, Palfin, Dio- nis, and a thoufand others. Thus have the once beautiful plates of Vefalius, (mangled and deformed, cut down to fuit books of all fizes, twiRed and accommodated to allfubjetRs and all forms of ex- planation,) defcended to us in fuch diRorted fhapes, that while we are looking over their books to fix upon them this indi&ment of plagiarifm, we can hardly recognife the original drawings fo fairly as to prove the deed. Evenvi PREFACE. Even in the firft invention of our bell; anatomical figures, we fee a continual ftruggle between the anatomift and the painter ; one ftriving for elegance of form, the other infilling upon ac- curacy of reprcfentation. It was thus that the celebrated Ti- tian confented to draw for Vefalius : Though it is but too plain that there can be no truth in drawings, thus monftroufly compounded betwixt the imagination of the painter, and the fober remonftrances of the anatomift, ftriving for accurate ana- tomy, where the thing cannot be ; for thofe figures, which are fuppofed to be drawn truly from the anatomical table, are formed from the imagination of the painter merely ; fturdy and acftive figures, with a ludicrous contraft of furious counte- nances, and aflive limbs, combined with ragged mufcles, and naked bones, and diftected bowels, which they are bufily em- ployed in fupporting, forfooth, or even demonftrating with their hands. This vitious practice of drawing from imagination mere- ly is well examplified in this, that anatomifts have, with one con- fent, agreed to borrow the celebrated Torfo for putting their bowels into, to explain them there ; a practice which has defcend- ed from the time of Vefalius down to Cheflelden, and from him to the fyftems of the prefent day* No painter in natural hiftory, in botany, in mechanics, nor in any thing that relates to fcience, would dare to draw without hisvii PREFACE. his fubjedl immediately before him : but anatomifts, who mod of all need this clearnefs and truth, have beSa mod of all arbitra- ry and loofe in their methods ; not reprefenting what they faw, but what they themfelves imagined, or what others chofe to report to them:—hence the carelefs copying from book to book, the interpo- lations of anatomifts, the interference of painters in a fubjecd de- grading to their higher art, the errors and miftakes of engravers, and the fubjecdion of true anatomical drawing to the capricious interference of the artift, whofe rule it has too often been to make all beautiful and fmooth, leaving no harfhnefs nor apparent blurr in all his work. Even the celebrated book of Albinus has been thus abufed ; and though he is fparing of cellular fubftance, and glands, and fat, and veftels ; of all that gives a drawing its likenefs to the human body; even the little that he had given, is now rounded down into the fmoothnefs of ivory, as if a model had been made and drawn from. Albinus, (naturally fparing of ornament, and wanting in the natural character of parts) lived to fee his drawings thus robbed of the little that they pofteifed of grace or nature ; and then produced, as if in mere wantonnefs and fport, under the high title of Anatomy of Painting ; but by one, who feems too grave to have intended any ftroke of irony, fo refined as this. - A higher tafte prevails in the prefent age; and the fplendid and noble works of Morgagni, Haller, Bidloo, and Albinus, and ofviii PREFACE. of Chelfelden, Hunter and Cowper, are drawn truly, and from nature, and cannot be forgotten, while anatomy, and the arts de- pending on it, continue to be efteemed. Yet even, among thofe great men, we have feen an idea gradually improving, till at laft it was brought by Haller to the true point. For Albinus’s draw- ings are merely plans : Bidloo’s tables are beautiful and mafterly; but being wanting in regularity and order, they want altogether the clearnefs of a plan; Haller’s drawings are as fair as Bidloo’s, as regular as thofe of Albinus ; and combine in one the truth and fometimes the elegance of drawing, with the plainnefs and accuracy of a mere plan. IF an anatomift fhall fet up a fkeleton, and draw it in poA tures refembling thofe of life; if he fhall diffedl the human bo- dy, ftudying and drawing it in parts; if he fhall continue draw- ing mufcle after mufcle, and one part after another, till he have gone through the whole; if he fhall proceed then to take thefedraw- ings and notes of individual parts, and lay them over his firft drawings of the bones ; if he fhall try to match the parts belong- ing to fifty individual bodies of different fizes, of various forms, dying, fome fuddenly, and others {lowly, fome full and mufcular, others emaciated and poor; what will the refult of all this be, but a mere plan ? It is apian merely, through all the procefs, and in all its parts; it cannot be other than a plan when the whole work is accomplifhedix PREFACE. accomplifhed and fet up. It was an unlucky theory of this kind that carried the great Albinus, for fifteen years, through a courfe of laborious difleclions, painful and ufelefs to himfelf j but ufeful to all thofe who have to follow him: Still each drawing of his is but a mere plan, refembling no individual body, refembling in nothing the general drawing of the body; it h fuch a view as never is to be feen in a difledtion* It is not, like our Couper’s nor like Bidloo’s, a true drawing of mufcles dafhed with touches of glands, and fat, and cellular fubftance, which are the natural diftindlions of parts ; nor mixed with the branchings of arteries or nerves, the chief objects for which we ftudy the mufcles ; but it is like a flatue anatomifed, where all the irregularities of fub- ftance, all the gradations of bones, ligaments, tendons, and flefh,, are rounded down with a ftudied fmoothnefs; it is a figure which the ftudent can never compare with the body as it lies before him for difledtion ; it is a figure fuiting more the eye of the painter than the eye of the anatomift; nor even pleafant to his eye, fince it ftands in attitudes, which no fwelling of particular mufcles feems to fupport. In the other extreme is Bidloo ; for, in his plates, the ma-fter- hand of the painter prevails almoft alone; while whole fheets of infinite labour ferve only to explain the joinings of the clavicles, or perhaps the form of one trifling mufcle or gland, The formal fi~ b gures.X PREFACE. gures of Alb in us are more defireable than thefe. But, in either book, we regret either extreme ; in Albinus we think that we under- ftand every mufcle of the human body! but our knowledge hardly bears the teft of diffeclion; the drawings and the fubjedl never can be directly compared:—In Bidloo, we have the very fubject be- fore us! the tables, the knives, the apparatus, down even to the flies that haunt the places of diffe&ion, all are prefented with the main obje<5t of the plate; and thus we have perfect confidence in the drawing; in which alfo the parts are laid out in a bold and maf- terly ftile, fo that the dead fubjefl and the engraving can well bear to be compared. But in Bidloo there is often no claflification nor arrangement, no breadth of parts, by which we can underhand a whole limb; a thigh is prefented with no one marked point; neither the haunch nor the knee are feen: His plates are all elegance in re- fpe<5t of drawing; in refpedt of anatomy, they are all diforder and confufion; and one muft be both anatomift and painter to guefs what is meant, how the limb is laid, and what parts are feen. •t • It is to Haller that we muft give the palm ; who having to do with parts chiefly, and not with a whole, has feldom offended by drawing a diffe&ed body, after a living form; nor by planning and dividing a living form into the parts of a diffedled body; but has given his drawings truly from the anatomical table ; and with the trueft drawing, has given, very often, all the diftin&nefs of a plan. NowPREFACE. XI Now wefhould always remember that anatomy is to be learnt only by difledlion*; difledtion is the firft and laft bufinefs of the {In- dent; and when drawings are made for his ufe, the body fliould be laid out, as he is to order it in diftebtion; the belly fhould be difolayed, as he can difplay it in his fubjedt; an arm fliould be fo drawn, that, when he diflebls the arm of the fubjebt, it may fall na- turally upon the table, exabtly as he finds it in his book; and ftill the pofture of arms, and legs, and heads, fliould be preferved di- ftinbt and clear: enough of the general figure fliould be kept to explain the pofture of parts; there fliould be kept up a natural correfpondence among the feveral drawings; and while the true anatomical drawing is delivered upon one plate, a plan, if it be required, fliould be added upon the next. b 2 I * If anatomy is to be acquired in this way only, then mud we underftand by a fchool of anatomy a fchool of diffedion : Yet thofe who have had the happinefs of profecuting their ftudies in foreign univerfities, or in the London fchools, will hardly believe it, that there is at lead one place of education much celebrated, and woithy to be fo, where the dudy of anatomy is denied or profcribed.—Where not only it is not praifeworthy, but even dangerous to propofe diffedions; where the man who may be fo bold as to do his duty in that mod import- tant dudy, Ihallbe traduced in filthy pamphlets, thrud officioudy, and with intentions not of the- pured kind, into the hands of every young man who comes to fchool. If I have felt this, it has been dill in filence; till I now fpeak of it, not formally, but by chance ; not with the mean thought of prefenting myfelf as a perfecuted man, nor of indulging a refentment which were loft upon fuch people, or upon fuch an occafion; but to make my acknowlegements to one, whofe ge- nerous condud is not unknown; who is truly interefted in the honour and reputation of that uni- verfity to which he belongs; who is at once an honour and defence to it; and whofe fingle praife, (may I be allowed to fay what touches myfelf fo nearly,) “ fhall outweigh a whole theatre of “ others.”331 PREFACE. I know but too well that few will fubmit to learn anatomy, as they fhould do, by the dry reading of anatomical defcriptions, and the tedious comparing of thefe with the fubjedl, or with their plates; and there are very few, who have learned this ufeful truth, that they are to become acquainted with parts only by being mafters of the whole. One propofes to himfelf to learn the bones only; another defigns to attend chiefly to the joints ; a third will ftudy the arteries only, “ for the arteries are of chief ufe to the furgeon another delights in fludying the vifcera, and is forely difap- pointed if he fail to underftand the brain; while anatomy abfo- lutely is not to be ftudied in parts, but is one fair and continued circle, where fuch is the correfpondence, and mutual connexion of all the parts, that he who would know the mufcles, muft firft ftu- dy the bonesj and he who would learn the blood veffels, and nerves, (which are indeed the mofl important to the furgeon,) muft know the mufcles thoroughly. It is according to the mufcles, that all the other parts are to be defcribed; for when we trace the courfe of a blood veffel, it is by purfuing its intricate wan- derings among the mufcles: it gives its firft branch to one mufcle, its fecond branch to another; it forks into two, under the belly of a third; it goes through the fubflance of a fourth mufcle, or ac- companies its tendon, or runs along the edge of its flefhy belly : So that in defcribing a great vefifel, we mark its exit from the trunk . / of the body, its entrance into the arm-pit or groin, its courfe down the arm or thigh ; the dangers! the wounds, the operations of each great artery or nerve, are recorded according to the parts which theirxm PREFACE. their feveral branches fupply. And befides thefe confederations, which cannot but have their weight, we mud not forget, that the wounds of the mufcles, the fprains of tendons, the rupture of li- gaments, the collections under the general fafcias or broad tendons of the limbs, are of themfelves fufficient and dired motives; the only ones, indeed, that need be afligned for teaching the anatomy of the mufcles with particular care. Yet, labour it as we will, how poorly ought we to think of our own diligence, when we find Statuaries or Painters ftudying the anatomy of the human body, with a perfeverance and fuccefs which may well put us to fhame! Painters merely, who having no obje<5l fo important, nor fo interefting, as the injuries and acci- dents of the body, defire nothing more than to underftand its ex- ternal beauty and its form. The Greeks lived in the molt delightful countries of the world; the mod beautiful people ; fometimes happy, and always free. Among them the arts grew and flourifhed, and were to all ranks the chief bufinefs and pleafure of life:—for moderation and fimplicity was in their dwellings, while all their riches were referved for £hows and feflivals, for adorning their native city, for the public ufe. Their temples, and ftreets, ^nd halls were filled with reprefentations of a beauty, which never exifled but among that happy people, or lives now only in their works, the admiration and reproach of our lag- gard times.—They faw, in their public games, the lovely forms of theirPREFACE. XIV their youth moving in dignity and grace: For there were feen in mixed affembly in their women, the pureft models of female beauty j—-in their young men, the grandeft difplays of the manly form ; moving and in adtion ; infpired by every noble emulation, exulting in their ftrength ; or advancing into the public view, only to lliow the beauties of their form. Their artifts needed no helps of anatomy ; but in thofe delightful fpetflacles colleded all the modes and forms of beauty, to combine them into one high ideal form. * The moderns have come poorly after, in this great career; copy- ing coldly thofe half-animated forms, which are feen in our fchools of the arts fixed in laborious poflures, “ felling their igno- “ ble beauty for a price.” Senfible of this great defedt, our artifts have taken the help of anatomy to corredt this tame unmeaning form; ftudying with a noble perfeverance, (but as their own critics acknowledge to us,) with but poor fuccefs. They ftudy each muf- cle ; they note down its diredtion and ufe ; they guefs at its office, and power in certain poflures of the body ; and try to mark it in its juft place. The modern ftatuary, is like one wandering a- mong the ruins of fome noble city, who finding the remains of a temple, traces its lines among the ruins, and, upon this flender knowledge, tries to imagine and coldly reprefent to us its loft -form and antient grandeur. It * “ We are taught by philofophy, the natural pre-eminence and high rank of fpecific ideas u above individual forms.”—. Harris.PREFACE. xv It was thus that Michael Angelo fiudied our profefTion : and ftudied it fo, that the lefibns of that great mailer are a reproach to thofe who profefs anatomical knowledge. His knowledge of ana- tomy gave to all his works a call “ approaching more nearly to “ the Etrufcan Ryle, than to the purer taRe of the Greeks marking them too hardily with traits of learning. His violent di- Rortions and fudden fhortenings of the limbs are lefs pleafing to thofe who delight in the delicate and higher beauty; fitting him lefs for reprefenting the female form, than for giving bold and terrible pictures of aCtion and Rrength. But Rill he is correCt and true in all that belongs to the anatomy of the human body ; and his Rudies are atrial of the anatomiR’s fkill;—for in looking upon one of thefe, we find that the knee, the ancle, the neck, the wriR, each head and projecting point of bone, is truly marked; while the difiortion of the figure, the violent aCtion of the limbs, the diorten- ings and bending of the joints, and the intricacy of the whole poRure are difficult in the extreme; but Rill each limb is true, and every individual mufcle fwelling in its juR degree, fo as to preferve correCtly the proportions and balance of the whole. Should not we be afliamed to compare our languid endeavours with the perfedl knowledge of this great painter, the very notes of whofe deeper Rudies in anatomy we are unable to read ? But in our profeffion, though the very fciencemight almofl be de- fined a knowledge of parts, indufiry and knowledge are but of low 2 repute.PREFACE. 3&vi repute, and the very name of diligence and mere labour, a term of reproach; while genius is in truth nothing but a ftrong defire of knowledge, and the fpirit of induftry its trueft mark. Let not the (indent of anatomy defpife labour, nor hope to acquire his knowledge by other means. In jufiice to his own genius, he muft take all advantage of defcriptions, and drawings, and diflec- tions, and plans; feeling, no doubt, in his firft difficulties the need of every help, but driving to mount, by flow degrees, from fuch elementary books, as that which I now prefent him with, to thofe noble and fplendid works, which were the beginning of correcfl ana- tomy, and will not be forgotten, while that branch of knowledge is refpedted or known. And here may I not complain, that, in fche- ming thefe plates, I am curbed and bound in by the oecono- my of my plan ? If, indeed, by wifhing merely, the thing could be accomplifhed, this word oeconomy fhould never more be heard of in all that relates to fcience y but many are to ftudy our profeffion who cannot command thofe noble works; and every young man who is to ftudy an art in which the interefts of fociety are fo im- mediate and fo ftrong, fhould have the means of inftru&ion put within his reach. If there be any teacher, then, who being cir- cumfcribed in point of time, would confent to offer his help and inftru&ions in that form in which he could give them, regarding more his duty than his good name, to him this motive {hall be my apology ; it {hall be my apology to all thofe who can feel with me a fincere defire to do good and to be ufeful;—but not to all!—for ftudent^PREFACE. xvn ftudents have been already warned, that they mufl be jealous of thofe •who pretend to give them plates; “ that fome are capable of making plates for them, and fome are not; that thofe who are beft able to give them plates, either will not undertake the labour, or can- not find time.” And fo, the half only of this delicate argument was left unpronounced, which was already but too plain. Now, although fome unfortunate publilher of Anatomical Drawings was thus left impaled upon the horn of this broken dilemma, any implied reproach could not be aimed at me particularly, fince my book was not publifhed; it was only advertifed. This is perhaps a fort of caution, which it might in certain circumftan- ces be very right, or very dutiful, or very convenient, perhaps, to give; as young men, no doubt, need fome careful perfon to ■inftrucft and help their judgements, efpecially in fuch tender points as this is. But Ihould it ever happen, that a man of high rank and character fliould be found, flriving to hurt any poor en- deavours of mine, I might feel that riling within me, which it were almoft a meannefs to fupprefs *; and reply to him in the words of Lord Shaftfbury: “ You, Sir, have a cha- “ ra&er, which fets you above us far, and releafes you “ from thofe decorums, and conftraining meafures of beha- * Ille fapit, qui te ilc utitur,. omnia ferre Si potes ac debes-,. Juvenal.PREFACE. xv Hi “ viour, to which we of an inferior fort are bound; you may ** liberally deal out your compliments and falutations in what lan- “ guage you think fit; for I fhall but drive with myfelf to fup- “ prefs whatever vanity might naturally arife in me for fuch a fa- “ vour beftowed ; for, whatever may in the bottom be intended by “ fuch treatment, it is impoflible for me to term it other than a fa- <£ vour, fince there are certain enmities which it will ever be efteem- cc ed an honour to have deferved The author furely will not be accufed of fuch want of tafte, and relifh for elegant drawing or engraving, as to hold thefe plates out as excelling in what is beautiful; yet, may he not hope, that they are not wanting in what is ufeful ? They want that fize which gives fplendor to a grander work, and of courfe that propor- tion, which gives the full idea of the human body ; they want that elegant drawing, and careful engraving, which fhould do any idea juftice, which is fo neceffary in delivering the minuter parts with character and truth ; all is wanting that belongs to the idea of a grander work ; an idea, which the author could not but feel, yet durft not indulge. But dill he hopes they may be found fimple, in- telligible, * Perhaps it was fomeTuck critic as this that contrived that great anatomical drawing, which either I flrould not have mentioned at all, or fliould have given fome (hort account of.—Indeed it is not eafy to deliver a fair hiftory of even the mod trivial improvement, and very fel- dom are we able to difcover by what happy chance aif idea firft fprang up in the mind of itsxix PREFACE. teUigible, and plain ; having whatever belongs to a little fyftem of plates, intended merely to accompany a book of anatomy, and chiefly defigned for thofe who are entering on their {Indies, and but little advanced ; and he trulls that he will be indulged, in trying fairly, whether by attending to the correfpondence of ideas and reprefentations, whether by ordering his drawings fo as to fuit his book, whether by a careful combination of defcriptions, drawings, and plans, he fhall not be able to deliver a fyftem of anatomy, intel- ligible, or perhaps eafy for his pupils; enabling them to enter the differing room with confidence, and to leave it, not without inftruc- tion; and qualifying them alfo for underftanding thofe illuftrations, which he fhall continue to give, or the corrections and remarks of other teachers:—for that ftudent has but a mean idea of the value of his profeflion, who does not feek all means ofinftrucftion; and the teacher muft have a poor conceit of his prefent knowledge, who does not hope, by his own diligence, to correft himfelf; or to re- ceive leffons from others, fometimes friendly, too often, in this world tinctured with its enmities and paftions; fuch as are noc pleafant in receiving, which ftill it is a duty to receive. its author; but perhaps the hiftory of this grand figure might go in the following terms. The ingenious Mr Cruikihanks, with the defign of explaining all that he or Dr Hunter had injected, of the lymphatic fyftem, in one confiftent view, took a delicate and elegant drawing of the human body, and laid his lymphatics upon it, explaining at the fame time his intention, and making his apologies for this little plan ; but-he could not forfee that the idea thus firft fuggef- ttS1PREFACE. XX defign of thefe plates, it is very natural for me to fay alfo a few words concerning the mechanical labour. I have drawn my plates with my own hand. I have engraved fome of thefe plates, and etched almolt the whole of them: Which I mention only to (how, that they have their chance of being corredt in the anatomy, and that whatever, by my interference, they may have loft in elegance, they have gained, I hope, in truth and accuracy.—And while 1 mention this, I mult not be ungrateful to Mr Beugo, whofe (kill will, I hope, be Ihown on fome higher occalion, and whofe character mult not be hurt by any thing that may be feen here ; for wherever in thefe plates all is fair and clean, it is owing to his care ; .and thofe blots of execution which are not fairly co- vered, have not come through his correcting hand.—Whatever he has done alone has been hurried, allowing no time for artful or laborious engraving, though fill all that is here, I hope, is correct and true. I ted was to receive, in patting through a greater mind, a grander form.—The expedient was tried again, and the fecond anatomift refolving to outdo at one ftroke all his rivals, and knowing of no furer way than this, had an engraving made of a mod gigantic fize ! An Alkapart J A figure of full fix feet in height; which (bating the clumfinefs of conception) has turned out to be a drawing of fuch Angular beauty, that it will not be rivalled; and as there can be no reprefentation of the human body of more than 6 feet high, it pofitively cannot be excelled.—All thofe who underftand the intention and effeA of engraving, or who have any idea of the bold and free manner which clafs drawings require, mud wonder even at the report of fuch a thing; but not as our poet Young wonders, “ for wonder is involuntary praife ;” if the emotion be involuntary, it will mod: likely be of another kind.PREFACE. xxi 1 have endeavoured, alfo, to keep the explanation of thefe plates to the moil Ample and natural form; knowing, by long experience, that anato- mical defcriptions are, even to the molt earned and diligent ftudent, very tedious and hard to be underftood. The loading of fuch a ftudy as Anatomy with peculiar or afFedted language, and with needlefs terms of art, where too many are really needful, has a tawdry and vulgar appearance, of which we have much reafon to be alhamed ; it is a barbarous jargon, to which our ear is fubdued only by long and inveterate cuftom : and our continual ufe of this traffiy language in fchool books, prefents to the flu- dent the difficult and harrafllng talk of learning at once a new fcience and a ftrange language. Swift, who commends fimplicity of language, and enforces his leftbm by the moil beautiful examples, fays, “ When the water is clear you will 11 eafily fee to the bottombut anatomifls have ftirred up their techni- cal terms fo thick, that the ftudent has but a poor chance of feeing to the bottom, unlefs we fhall agree in letting this fediment quietly fubfide a^, gain. The medical ftudent is, indeed, fo accuflomedto hard words, that he can fcarcely think any book accurate or complete that is without them; and however well he may underfland iPs defcriptions, cannot believe them true. He is not only accuflomed to know the molt difficult parts by the hardefl names, but to have the detail given to him in fuch expletives, as the Pofterior, Anterior, Superior, Inferior *; and often after all, this Superior Anterior por- tion * Our 'fcie'nce in this country has got this vile farrago, of Anterior, Superior, &c. through tad tranflations of Latin and French, where fuch words as Superieure or Superior are in their place.PREFACE. xxu tion is but one extremity forfooth, or one portion of a part, which having other pofterior extremities, or anterior portions, has to pafs {till through a long declenlion of thefe curious terms, which have-not, like the terms in any other fcience, the property of conveying more regular and clear ideas, nor of faving fuperfluous words. They Hand in place of the Ample expref- fion of upper or lower ends.—Now this clutter of hard names confounds the ear, as well as puzzles the judgement of the ftudent, and is truely a dif- grace to the fcience it looks as if we believed Anatomy to con Aft in ftrange terms, and that we could not write in true character of Anatomifts, but by departing as widely as pofiible from the language of gentlemen. I have ventured, inftead of “ fetting up this rank and file of tall opaque words “ betwixt the reader’s imagination, and my own conceptions,” to make every defcription as Ample as may be,—-ufing no hard words, but the pure names ; choofing rather that my book fliould be plainly underftood, than admired as a piece of unintelligible profound anatomy.THE FIRST BOOK OF THE BONES,* r ii H II I *1 6 ? 'I 7 /I • " ■» • - - * ;*' . ; ■SY. »>• ' •; * - ' : ■ * ' ‘ ; X 1 ' \ • •• 'fI ! • i : ; ■ ’■ J ■ >; . . 1 : .. .' ‘ ' v- 'Itiol ■ s rf . ■ • . ■ XI > lie.* * r r * - vC -i \ W*-' .'i. . . *vBOO F S T \r JV OF THE B O N E S. PLATE I. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 35, to Page 52. Xn this Plate are reprefented the Adult and Foetal Sculls, that they may be fairly compared with each other; and there is explain- ed here, not the minute anatomy of the individual parts, but the general view only, viz. the Bones of which the Cranium is compofed; -— the Sutures by which the feveral bones are joined. And, in the Foetal Scull, the form and procefs of Offification; and the interfaces called Fontanelles, which are always left membraneous, during the flow ofiification of the child’s head. A FIGURE t2 OF THE BONF..S. FIGURE I. THE ADULT SCULL. A The Frontal Bone, where (a) {hows the ferrated edge which forms the Co- ronal Suture; (£) the flatter part behind the Eye, which is plain and hollow for lodging the Temporal Mufcle; (c) is the acute angle of the bone, which is • called the External Angular Procefs, from its forming the outer angle or cor- ner of the eye; and (i) is that prominence over the nofe, under which there is a fmall cavity within the bone, called the Frontal Sinus, which the furgeon avoids in performing the operation of trepan; though it is rather from the difficulty of perforating this part that he Ihuns it, than from any danger in the perforation. B The Parietal Bone. The letter B points to that great line, which running ac- cording to the length of the bone, with a rainbow-like arch, divides the fur- face into two equal parts, of which the upper and fmooth-part (y) is covered with the thin expanded tendon of the Occifito-Frontalis Muscle, while the lower part (y_) has its furface radiated; and thefe radii are the impreflions of the particular bundles of which the Temporal Mufcle confifts; fo that “ the white (l femicircular line (B) reprefents the origin of the temporal mufcle; and the con- verging lines on the furface (_/) exprefs the manner, in which the fibres of “ the mufcle are gathered into a fmaller compafs to pafs under the jugum.” N Vid. P. 61.— (^) points to a fmall hole in the back part of this bone, which is fometimes large, fometimes wanting; and which gives paflfage to a fmall vein of the integuments, (going inwards to the longitudinal finus or great vein of the head) and alfo to a fmall artery, which accompanies the vein : (£) marks that corner which, running down fharper and longer into the temple, is often 2 called3 BOOK FIRST, PLATE FIRST. called the Spinous Procefs of the Parietal Bone ; and this corner is the more to be obferved, that it is under it that the great artery of the Dura Mater runs. C The Occipital Bone, of which but a very fmall part is feen in this direc- tion. D Is the Temporal Bone, feen full and direft from one fide; where (7) marks- that thin upper edge, which forms the fquamous future , (i) the deep and flat part of the bone, on which the temporal mufcle lies ; (/) the Maftoid or Mamil- lary Procefs, named from its refemblance to a nipple ; (in') the Styloid Procefs, which Hands out over the back part of the throat to give origin to feveral muf- cles of the throat and tongue ; («) is the Zygomatic Procefs, which, joining with a fimilar procefs of the cheek bone, forms the zygoma or arch ; (o) marks the Ring of the Meatus Auditorius Externus, or outw?ard ring of the ear; and (p') fhows a fmall hole, which, like that of the parietal bone, tranfmits a vein palling from without into the great finus or vein within the fcull, and which be- longs fometimes to the temporal, fometimes to the occipital bone, or fometimes is in the future betwixt them. / E The Os Malae, or bone of the cheek, which forms the lower and fore part of the focket for the eye, and fupports the cheek; and by its prominence or flatnefs gives the form of the face —one procefs (q) is feen here going up to meet the angular procefs of the frontal bone, and fo is named the Angular Pro- cefs of the Cheek Bone ; while (r) another procefs, called the Zygomatic Procefs of the Cheek Bone, goes to meet the zygomatic procefs of the temporal bone, forming the complete jugum, or yoke, under which the temporal mufcle pafies ; and from that prominent part of the cheek bone, which is marked (s), there go two remarkable mufcles, one the Maffeter or Grinding Mufcle, which pafies from A 2 thisOT THE BONES. 4 this part of the cheek bone into the angle of the lower jaw to pull it upwards ; while another, a very (lender and delicate mufcle, goes from the fame point inwaids towards the angle of the mouth, and is called Zygomaticus, or Diftor- tor Oris. F Points to the fmall bones of the Nofe, named Nasal Bones ; for there are two of them forming the root of the nofe, and the left one is feen here ; the fmall letter (*) points to what is called the Lateral Nafal Sutu.re, which flrotehea uniTs* to the upright procefs of the upper jaw bone. G Points to the Upper Jaw Bone, of which fcarcely any thing is feen in this view, except the circle called the Alveolar or Socket Procefs, in which the teeth are fet. H Marks the Lower Jaw Bone; and the letter is placed upon that point of the Bone which is called the Angle, into which the MalTeter Mufcle is fixed ; (a) marks that procefs of the jaw which is called Coronoid or Horn-like, which goes up under the Zygoma to receive the great temporal mufcle as it pafies under the arch ;— and (v) is the Condyloid Procefs, or that branch of the lower jaw bone, which is crowned with the condyle or head, forming the joint or hinge upon which the jaw moves j which head of the jaw bone is felt by putting the finger before the flap of the ear. The Sutures are, £. The Coronal Suture, running acrofs the head, joining the frontal to the parietal bones, extending from ear to ear ; and going down into the Temple, where it joins the Squamous Suture, and, like it, is fcaled, (i. <?.) wants the indentations of a re- gular future. a. TheBOOK FIRST, PLATE FIRST. 5 FIGURE II, 2. The Lambdoidal Suture, joining the occipital to the parietal bones ; finding over the occiput, refembling the Greek letter A. — But the refemblance is a little hurt by the accident of an Os Wormianutn, or irregular bone, fuch as is found more frequently in this future than in any other; fometimes {ingle, as in the fcull from which this was drawn; but fometimes in great numbers, and not unfrequently of the fize of a crown piece ; thefe Ofifa Wormiana may difplace the Lambdoidal Suture fo, that being out of the ufual direction, it may be miftaken for a fra&ure. 3. The Sagittal Suture, joining the parietal bones to each other; extending from the Lambdoidal to the Coronal Suture, as an arrow lies betwixt the firing and the bow. 4. The Temporal or Squamous Suture, belonging chiefly to the temporal bone; and called fquamous or fcaled, becaufe the edges of the temporal and parietal bones are there extremely thin, and are laid over each other like the fcales of armour. One part marked (in) lying betwixt the occipital and parietal bones, is named the Additamentum Suturse Squamofte, or fupplement of the Squamous Suture. v 5. Marks a part of the Spiiaenoidal Suture, joining the wing of the Sphenoid Bone, to the temporal, frontal, and parietal bones, for, in this hollow under the zygoma, all thefe bones meet by thin fcaled edges, and lap over each other; fo that all the futures in the Temple are fquamous. 6. The Transverse Suture, is one which runs acrofs the face, through the middle of the orbits, and over the root of the nofe, and the end of it appears here, joining the angular procefes of the frontal bone, and of the cheek bone. 7. The Zygomatic Suture.OF THE BONES.. € FIGURE II. THE F (E T A L SCULL, * Explains the Foetal Scull;- where we find the holes, procefles, and othe? marks, very imperfect: Of courfe a Ihorter and more Ample explanation will ferve. A Is The Frontal Bone; and the letter is fo placed, as to mark the central point, where the ofiification begins; the ofiification being more perfett at this point, and going in a radiated form towards all the edges of the bone, leaves the ofiification very imperfe£l all round the edge of the bone ; and at (oZ) there is a difference betwixt this and the Adult Scull, for here the cavity of the Frontal Sinus is not yet formed.. B The Parietal Bone ; where alfo the letter marks the center of ofiification; the- radii are very plain; and the edges are feen imperfe£t and membraneous, leaving all the futures imperfeft. The ridge, which divides the bone, is not yet formed; for the Temporal Mufcle has not yet begun to mark the bone, C The Occipital Bone; where the letter again in this bone, points to an ofiifying central point. D The Temporal Bone ; where many parts, marked in the Adult Scull, as the Styloid and Maftoid procefles, —the fmall hole,—and the marks of the Temporal Mufcle, are all wanting. And the ring (o) of the Meatus Auditorius Externus, isBOOK FIRST, PLATE FIRST, is merely a ring; is fixed to the bone only, and not joined with it; and is here feen covered with the fmooth Membrane of the Tympanum, or Drum of the Ear. E The Cheek Bone ; which, like all the other bones, is very round, and its edges blunt and ill defined. F The Small Bones of the Nofe. G The Upper Jaw Bone; where, fince the teeth are not yet come up, the Alveolar or Socket Procefs is not formed, nor even marked. H The Lower Jaw Bone; where alfo the Alveolar Procefs is wanting, and where the branch of the jaw bone does not rife from the bafis, or lower line, with a bold and acute angle, but goes obliquely off, more horizontal, and more in the fame dire&ion with the reft of the bone. And laftly, the chief point to be obferved, in the fcull of a child, is the open*, ings of the head ; for the parietal bone is fo incomplete round all its edges, that it leaves all the futures imperfect and membraneous, and leaves fome open- ings particularly large, (a a a a) mark the four corners of the greater opening upon the top of the head; which, from the hypothefis of its ferving as a drain, is called the Fontanelle, or Fountain of Moifture. It has four angles, is formed by four eroding futures ; the Sagittal Suture, defcending quite to the nofe. The Fontanelle is covered only with a thin and delicate membrane ; it is named the Greater Anterior, or True Fontanelle, the opening of the head. (b) MarksOF THE BONES. (h) Marks a lefsflr opening, which is formed by the meeting of the Lambdoidal and Sagittal Sutures ; but, as they do not crofs, there are here but 3 converg- ing lines ; three angles or points of bone ; no perceptible opening, but the bones rather lapping over each other. It is over this point that the hair turns in a fort of vortex, if we may be allowed to explain it fo ; and though the greater Fontanelle was thought to prefent in labour, this back Fontanelle is the true pre- fenting point. (c) Marks a fmall Fontanelle, or membraneous interftice before the ear; and (d) Marks another fmall Fontanelle behind the ear, in the place of the Additamentum Suturae Squamofae; and it is the more to be remarked, as it is through this little Fontanelle, that the accoucheur opens the head in the rare coincidence of preternatural pofture of the child, and deformed Pelvis; where after delivering the body, it is impoflible to get the head out: and he prefers this opening, and fhuns the back Fontanelle, left, in piercing there, he ihould cut the ligament of the neck, and fo lofe his hold of the head. PLATE II.> '/h.UJA.J :■ d, ,..*>/*9 BOOK FIRST, PLATE SECOND. PLATE II. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 52, to Page 65. Ex plains the individual bones of the Cranium, the Frontal, Pari- etal, and Occipital Bones. FIGURES I. and II. JExplain the Os Frontis, or bone of the forehead. The numbers apply equally to either figure; and every number wanting in the firft figure, mull be fought for in the fecond. 1. The Superciliary Ridges, on which the eye brows are placed, and which form the frontal finufes. The Ikin is very firmly attached to the bone, all along this ridge ; and the Frontal Mufcles arife here. The many fmall dots, which are feen all along this ridge, are the marks of many little arteries, entering here to nourifh the bone. a. Points to that hole which is called the Superciliary Hole, for it permits the fmall Superciliary Artery and Nerve to come out from the focket of the eye t® B turaOF THE BONES. I o turn upwards upon the forehead, where they take the names of Frontal Artery and Nerve. On the one fide it is a fair round hole, on the other fide it is a notch only. 3. The two Internal Angular Processes. 4. The two External Angular Processes. 5. The Hollow behind the External Angular Procefs, in which the Temporal Mufcle lies. 6. The Nasal Process ; Handing up fliarp and rough, betwixt the two internal angular procefles. *]• The Bump, at the inner end of the Superciliary Ridge, marking the place of the Frontal Sinus, and indicating alfo the fize of that cavity, by the degree of riling. 8. The Mouth of the Frontal Sinus; where it opens into the Nofe. 9. —is to be found on Figure II. only, and marks the Spine, or Rid'ge to which the falx, or perpendicular partition of the Dura Mater is fixed; and («) fhows the groove, in which the ridge very generally terminates. t ic. The two Orbitary Plates ; which are thofe two thin parts of the bone, which extend over the eye, fo as to form the roof for the eye, and the floor for the fore lobes of the brain; and it is by the continual preflure betwixt thefe two parts, that the Orbitarj^ Procefles become fo extremely thin, that they are quite tranfparent. 2 (i) MarksI I BOOK FIRST, PLATE SECOND. (Z>) Marks the fpace or diitance betwixt the two Orbitary Processes ; which fpace is occupied by the CEthmoid Bone, which thus lies over the root of the Nofe. 11. The mark of the Cartilaginous pully, through which the tendon of the Obliquus Oculi runs ; and 12. Is the Superficial hollow for lodging the Lachrymal Gland in the upper part of the Orbit. (V) Upon Figure II. fhows the blind hole where the falx begins. This blind hole fome- times belongs to the Frontal Bone, fometimes to the (Ethmoidal Bone, but lyes moll commonly in the middle, betwixt the (Ethmoid and Frontal Bones. FIGURE III. c ^ Hows the two Ossa Parietalia, or Parietal Bones, feparated from the other bones of the Cranium, and alfo parted a little from each other, fo as to fhow that ferrated edge, which forms the Sagittal Suture. 1. Shows the ferrated edges, forming the SAGITTAL SUTURE. v. * • 2. The edge of both bones, which, in a femicircular form, produce by their union with the Frontal Bone, the Coronal Suture. B * 3. TheOF THE BONES, x. The 3. The thin femicircular edges, to which the Temporal bones are joined, forming the Temporal or Squamous Suture. 4. The Spinous Process', or largeft and molt pointed corner of the Parietal Bone. 5. The Radiated Surface, upon which the great Temporal Mufcle lies ; (a) mark- ing that ridge of the bone, which divides it into two parts, and beyond which the origin of the Temporal Mufcle does not extend, 6. The place where the Artery of the Dura Mater firft makes its impreflion, viss. at that lharp corner of the bone, which ftioots down into the temple. N. B. The only hole, which belongs to the Parietal Bone, cannot be feen in this view, but is to be found in the firft plate. FIGURES IV. and V.. Iv Xplain the Os Occipitis. It is here ftiown in two oppofite points of view,, from within, and from without; the letters and figures apply to either figure ; and the- fourth figure naturally takes the lead, as the defcription of the Occipital Bone al- ways begins with the external furface. Figure IV. The outer furface,BOOK FIRST, PLATE SECOND. 13 1. The Upper Transverse Spine, formed for the implantation of the Trapezius and Complexus ; or produced, according to fome, by the action of thefe great mufcles, 2. The Smaller and Lower Spine, formed by the Refti Mufcles ; — fmall mufcles which come up from the firft Vertebra to lay hold on the Occiput. 3. Th§ Perpendicular Spine, which divides the mufcles of the oppolite fides from each other ; and by this eroding, thefe two fpines are named, in general terms, the Crucial Spines. 4. The Great Tuberosity, fometimes called the Spinous Procefs of the Occipital Bone, (a) The Cuneiform Procefs, which meets the Os Sphsenoides. (£) The Condyle, or Joint Procefs, on which the head moves, at lead in the nodding motion. (F) The Foramen Magnum, through which the fpinal marrow pafles out from the fcull. (d) The Hole for the 9th, or Lingual, pair of Nerves. (<?) The fmaller Hole behind the Condyle, for the paffage not of any nerve, but of a cervi- cal vein going in towards the Great Lateral Sinus, In Figure V. is explained the inner furface of the Occipital Bone ; and the figures are continued, that the defeription may go on dill in the fame order. 5. Is the ridge to which the Tentorium, or membrane which fupports the brain, and. defends the Cerebellum, is fixed. 6. The two furrows, in which lie the Right and Left Lateral Sinufes, making this; broad groove. 7. The two hollows for lodging the backmod lobes of the brain, above the place of the Tentorium or fupporting membrane. 2 8. TwoOF THE BONES. 8. Two fimilar hollows, for lodging the two lobes of the Cerebellum, below the place of the Tentorium or crofs membrane. 9. The mark of a fmall falx or procefs of the Dura Mater ; which is like the great one, and like it contains a fmall linus or vein in it, the groove of which fmall finus is eaiily feen here. (a) The Cuneiform Procefs. (c) The Foramen Magnum. (c[) The hole for the ninth pair of Nerves, (y") The hollow or thimble-like cavity, in which the end of the Lateral Sinus lies ; for at this point the finus turns fuddenly round, efcapes from the fcull, and getting down into the neck, lofes the name of Sinus, and takes that of Internal Jugular Vein. C?) There was left flicking to the end of this bone a fragment of the Sphcenoid bone, fo that at this point the Cuneiform procefles of the Occipital and Sphoenoid bones are fo united, that to feparate them (in the adult at leaft), we mull break them ; and in breaking thefe bones, the great cell of the Spoenoid bone, or part of it, ftuck to the Cuneiform procefs of the Occipital bone ; and this cell is marked (§■). PLATEPh.ll. '.WfurJJ500K FIRST, PLATE THIRD. PLATE III. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 65, to Page 94. Explains much of the difficult Anatomy of the Scull; for thefe bones, the Temporal, (Ethmoid, Sphoenoid, and Upper Jaw Bones, have r many curious and intricate parts. F I G U R E S I. and II. » JExplain the Temporal Bone ; and now again the letters and numbers belong in common to both figures; to Figure I. which explains all the parts that are upon the outfide of the Temporal Bone, and alfo to Figure II. which explains all- that fide of the Temporal Bone which is towards the brain. The • Great Divisions of the Temporal Bone, are ; («) The fquamous, or thinner part, forming the Squamous or Scaley Suture. (h) The Pars Petrofa, or Rocky Part, which is, indeed, in the child, a diftinct bone, (c) The Occipital Angle, or that corner of the bone, which is joined to the Os Occipitis, by the Additamen- turn Sutures Squamofae. Thei6 or THE BONES. The Processes f the Temporal Bone are, a. The Zygomatic Process, ftretching forwards to meet that of the cheek bone. The Styloid Process, handing downwards over the throat, to give origin to ma- ny of the mufcles of the throat. 3. The Vaginal Process, which is a kind of rough rifing at the root of the Sty- loid Procefs. 4. The Mastoid or Mamillary Process, which is not formed in the child; which confifts of cells ; it is felt immediately behind the ear, belongs to that organ, and is perforated (fo it is propofed at leaft) in certain kinds of deafnefs. 5 . *The Auditory Process, which is named a procefs, becaufe it is in the child a djftin£t part, and hill is in the adult (as reprefented here) a prominent ring. The Holes of the Temporal Bone relate chiefly to the Ear. £. (cl) Marks the Meatus Auditorius Externus, the outer Auditory hole, upon which the drum of the ear is braced down. 2. (e) The Internal Auditory Hole, or Meatus Auditorius Internus, by which the Auditory Nerve has accefs to the Ear. 3. (f) A fmall hole for admitting a delicate thread-like nerve, which returns from withoutBOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. 1J without into the Cranium again, and joins the Portio Dura, or hard part of the Auditory Nerve while it is going along the paffages within the Ear. 4. (g) The Stylo-Mastoid Hole ; which has its name, from its being at the root of the Styloid and Maftoid proceffes ; it gives paffage to the Portio Dura, or that fmall hard Nerve, which accompanying the Auditory Nerve, goes along with it into the paffage of the Ear; but, while the Portio Mollis, or proper Auditory Nerve re- mains within the Ear, this Portio Dura, a diftinft Nerve, rnd deftined for the facey comes out by the Stylo-Mastoid Hole, under the ear, and lpreads upon the cheek. 5. (Z>) Marks the ragged end of the Petrous Portion. The bony part of that canal, named the Eustachian Tube ends here ; but the Tube is chiefly Cartilaginous, and therefore in this the dried bone, its openings appear quite irregular and rough ; and when the ftudent looks for the Euftachian Tube, he finds nothing but con- fufed and ragged openings. The mouth of the Euftachian Tube, as it appears when dried, is feen in its right place, Vid. PI. VI. 6. (y) The hole for the Carotid Artery is alfo to be looked for at this point,, though it cannot be feen in this particular view, unlefs the end of the Petrous Portion were turned more directly towards the eye. (/I) Is the Great Furrow, which the Lateral Sinus, or great internal vein makes,, forming a thimble-like cavity at (/), by the laft fudden turn which it makes before leaving the fcull. {m) Is a very fmall Furrow, formed by a fmall Sinus, or vein, which goes along the ridge of the Petrous Portion. C 7. («) Isi8 OF THE BONES. 7. (yi) Is the laft or 7th hole of the Temporal Bone. This is the fmall hole, formerly mentioned for the paffage of a trifling vein from without into the Lateral Sinus. jV. B. The joint or Condyle of the lower jaw is fet in the hollow (o') juft under the root of the Zygomatic Procefs. FIGURES III. and IV. Explain the (Ethmoid Bone ; Figure III. lhowing chiefly the upper furface of the bone, which fupports the fore part of the brain, and which is marked by the Crifta Galli (£) ; and Figure IV. fttows that confufed furface, which hangs over the root or upper part of the Nofe, and tvhofe fpongy bones, (d<P) form a part of the Organ of Smell. (a) The Cribriform Plate is the center, as it were, of this bone, to which all the other parts are referred; this plate is perforated by the Olfatftory Nerves, and it is from this horizontal and perforated plate, that the whole bone has its name. The parts belonging to the (Ethmoid Bone are, 1. (&) Is the Perpendicular Procefs, which ftands up from the Cribriform Plate, to- wards the brain ; and is named Crista Galli. 2. (c) Is the Nasal Plate; which forms the Septum or partition of the Nofe, ftand- ing perpendicularly downwards and forwards, as the Crifta Galli ftands upwards : the Crifta Galli and the Nafal Plate, are exa&ly oppolite to each other. 3. (dd) TheBOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. 19 3. (jltf) The two upper Spongy Bones ; they are named fpongy, from their conflitution, for they confiA of cells ; they are called OiTa Spongiofa Superiora, to diAinguiAi them from two fimilar bones, which hang in the lower part of the Nofe. They are fpoken of as diitinct bones, while they are but parts of the (Ethmoid Bone. 4. (e) The Orbitary Plate of the (Ethmoid Bone ; which, as it is inclofed a- mong the other bones of the Orbit, feems to be a diftinfl: bone furrounded by a peculiar future, and fo is named the Os Planum ; though it is merely the flat fide of the (Ethmoid Bone. 5. (f) Marks the place where the Os Unguis fliould be feen; but it is pulled away to fliow the numerous cells of the (Ethmoid Bone. Thefe cells are divided into two fets, one fet attached to the Orbitary Plate, or flat fquare fide of the (Eth- moid Bone, the other fet to the Spongy Bone. 6. (g) Figure IV. (hows that fet of the cells, which more particularly belongs to the Spongy Bone, and Figure III. fiiows the cells opened from above, to give a view of thofe, which more particularly belong to the Orbitary Plate. Whatever farther is necefiary to the demonftration of the (Ethmoid Bone, is to be. found in Plates V. and VI. where the cells are particularly well explained- FIGURE V. and VI.. Explain the Sphoenoid, Pteregoid, or Wedge-like Bone ; it is named Pteregoid from its refemblance to a bat, and is fo prefented here, as to fuggeft the likenefs. C 2 Figure.20 OF THE BONES. 8. The Figure ,V. fhows the back view of the bone, viz. that which is turned towards the fcullFigure VI. fhows the front view, viz. that which is conneded with the bones of the face. Its Processes are, L The Alae, or wings, commonly named the Temporal Procefles, for they lie in the Temples ; the Temporal Mufcles lie upon them, and their upper edge is fquamous like the edge of the Temporal bone, and forms part of the Squamous Suture. ■% 2. Marks that fmooth furface of this Temporal Process, which, being turned to- wards the eye, enters into the Orbit, and fo is named the Orbitary Procefs of the Sphcenoid Bone. 3. The fmall and fliarp Spinous Process. 4. The hook-like point of the Spinous Procefs, which is often named the Styloid Pro- cefs. 5. The External Pteregoid Processes ; which are two flat and broad plates. 6. The two internal Pteregoid Processes ; which Hand off a little higher, and more direft from the body of the bone; they are fmaller ; and terminate in a little hook. The Pteregoid Mufcles, which go to the lower jaw, arife from the procefles themfelves ; and the Tensor Palati Muscle turns round this little hook. 7. The Azygous, or Angle Procefs; which is Angle, becaufe it Hands out from the middle of the bone. It forms part of the partition for the Nofe, and is thence named Nasal Process.It BOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. 4. 00 Is $. The two Anterior Clynoid Processes. 9. The two Posterior Clynoid Processes. 10. The fpace bounded by thefe four Clynoid Processes; which, from refembling a Turkifh faddle, is named, Sella Turcica. 11. The two little wings of Ingrafias, called the Transverse Spinous Processes. The cells, which occupy the body of this bone, lying under the Sella Turcica, are. to be feen at (g) Figure VI. and again in Plate VI. The Holes proceed next in order, and are marked alfo with a fuit cf numbers, that the demonftration may be continued and entire. 1. (a) The two Optic Holes, tranfmitting the Optic Nerves; which are the fecond pair of the fcull; for the firlt pair, viz. the Olfactory Nerves pafs through the (Eth- moid Bone. 2. (b) The Foramen Lacerum ; or wide hole, which permits the third, the fourth, the firfl branch of the fifth, and the fixth pairs of Nerves to pafs ; for all thefe are fmaller nerves, deflined for the Mufcles of the Eye, and enter thus at the bottom of the focket, while the fecond pair is the proper Optic Nerve. 3. (c) The Foramen Rotundum ; it tranfmits the fecond branch of the fifth pair which goes to the upper Jaw.22 CF THE BONES. (J) Is the Foramen Ovale, (larger than the Foramen Rotund mm) which tranfrnits the third branch of the fifth pair, going to the lower jaw. 5. (<•) The- Spinous Hole, the Foramen Spinale, which is a fmall hole in the very point or tip of the Spinous Procefs. It is not for the transmiflion of a.nerve; but for the entrance of that fmall artery which belongs to the Dura Mater, and which goes along the inner furface of the Parietal Bone, marking it with its furrow. A bridle is palled through this hole in one fide, to fliow the courfe of the artery. 6. The fixth Hole. The Pteregoidean, or Vidian Hole, is not to be feen in this view ; but is to be feen in the next Plate, IV. where it is marked with its proper number, 6. (/) Reprefents the rough furface where the cuneiform or wedge-like part of this Sphos- noid Bone has been broken off from the wedge-like procefs of the Occipital Bone. (y) Marks the Cells of the Sphoenoid Bone, which are occafionally very large, as in this Bone ; and which make all the bone hollow under the Celia. Turcica. (£) Shows where the Palate Bone had adhered to the Sphoenoid ;—and the Palate Bone, being torn away, has broken, and left fome of its fmall cells flicking here to the Sphoenoid Bone. N. B. The Cells of the Palate Bone are explained in the next plate. This Bone is connected;- at (2) Figure VI. with the (Ethmoid Bone before ;— at (/) Figure V. with the Os Occipitis behind ;—at (1.) with the Temporal Bones in the Temples. The Spinous Procefs (3.) is locked in betwixt the Temporal and OccipitalBOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. 2J 4* The Bones ;—and the Pteregoid Procefles (5.) are joined to the Palate Bone, and form the back of the Noftrils. Vide next plate, where the Pteregoid Procefles are feen in. their place. FIGURE VII. and VIII. jf*he VII. and VIII. figures of this plate explain the Upper Jaw Bone ; Figure VIII. fhowing its Internal Surface, viz. that next to the nofe, with the wide opening of the Antrum, or Great Cavity of the Jaw. Figure VII. fhowing the outfide of the Bone, explaining the outfide walls of the Antrum, or Great Cavity : fo that, by comparing the two fides of the bone, one can eafily underhand the great extent of the Antrum, or Cavity ; and how pulling a tooth will open the way for matter flow- ing out from it. z. The Nasal Process which rifes up on each fide to form the Tides of the nofe. The Arch forms the fides of the nofe ; and the rough pointed ending of this Nafal Procefs is connected with the Os Frontis. st. Is the Orbitary Plate, or that plate which forms the floor of the eye, and the roof of the Antrum, or Cavity. 3. The Malar Process, or that broad rough furface upon which the Cheek Bone refls.OF THE BONES. ■24 4. The Alveolar Process, or that projecting femicircle, which holds the teeth; thence named Alveolar, or Socket Procefs. 5. The Palate Plate, or Procefs ; of which we fee the rough edge only, viz. that edge by which the Middle Palate Suture, the future in the roof of the mouth, is formed. V. B. The Palate Flate is feen full in Plates IV. V. and VI. 6. The Antrum Maxillare, or Higmorianum. This great cavity appears with a ve- ry wide opening here in the naked bone ; but this opening is covered in the entire fcull, both by the lower fpongy bone, and by the nafal plate of the palate bone. This nafal plate of the palate bone is left in this drawing covering a part of the An- trum ; the reft of this opening is naturally covered by a membrane, which leaves but one fmall hole. The Nafal Plate of the Palate Bone which is left fticking upon the Antrum is mark- ed (a). « (3) Marks the only Hole of the Upper Jaw Bene. It is named the Infra-Orbitary Hole. A chief nerve of the face comes out here, named (with its hole) the Infra- Orbitary Nerve. The proper Infra-Orbitary Hole is marked (3) ; and the Canal by which the nerve comes down is marked (cj : at this place the nerve lies under the eye, upon the floor of the orbit,—making a very large groove and hole upon this Orbitary Plate of the Upper Jaw Bone ; for arteries running along bones do not make deeper grooves than the nerves do. t N> B.cPl.iii' ■ , ;.v • ’ ' - v-‘ >■■■ ■ ■ ' : ■ ■ £ ' ■ , ■ . : • ■ -v'. .? ‘ *■”; V..-f A <•' :Vv v,' :■ f\ .BOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. *5 N. B. This Infra-Orbitary Nerve is a chief branch of the Superior Maxillary Nerve. (7) Marks the Foramen Incisivum ; fo named from its being juft above the fncifores or cutting teeth. It is alfo named Anterior Palatine Hole; it is complete only when the two jaw bones are joined, as in Plate IV. Fig. III. at (7) which marks this an- terior Palatine hole. (<?) Marks the courfe of the Lachrymal Duel, or tube which conveys the tears, which, after having palled through the Os Unguis, makes this groove in the Nafal Procefs of the upper jaw bone, and ends or opens into the Nofe juft where this du£l ends. I> PLATEf ' \ . -. . (v . i . r. V) 1 Jj / 'i jm r \i -r\U ■ - ” ) . - . ' ; 1 : • , t .I BOOK FIRST, PLATE FOURTH. 2*:' PLATE IV. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 85, to Page I04. Explains the Bones of the Face, and the Lower Jaw Bone. FIGURE I. Eepresents the two Nasal Bones, laid to each other in their natural dire&ion; by which is explained, 1. The Nasal Suture ; joining thefe two Nafal Bones to each other. 2. The Serrated Surface, by which they are joined with the Os Frontis, at the roughnefs round the root of the Nafal Procefs ; which union forms part of the Tranf- verfe Suture. 3. The Rough Surface, by which they are joined to the two cartilages that form the Alae Nafi, or Wings of the Nofe. 4. The Rough Surface, by which they are fixed to the Nafal Proceffes of the upper jaw bone. FIGURE II. Explains the Os Unguis, where both the drawings fhow that furface which appears in the orbit; and m both of them is feen, D 2 x. The23 OF THE BONES. x. The plain furface upon which the eye rolls ; and 2. The Groove which holds the Nafal Dud. FIGURE III. JB.Xflains, by a ufeful drawing, many very important parts on the bafis of the fcull. (n) the Foramen Magnum : (A) the Condyle: (c) the two Pteregoid Pro- ccfles ; (d) the Hook of the Inner Pteregoid Procefs, fhowing how the Tendon of the Circumflex Mufcle may twill round it : (<?) the Styloid Procefs : (/) the Mamillary Procefs : 1^) that part of the Palate, or roof of the mouth, which is formed by the upper jaw bones : (A) the fmaller part of the Palate, formed by the proper palate bones; (i) the Middle Palate Suture : (A) the Tranfverfe Palate Suture : (/) the Anterior Palatine Hole, or Foramen Incilivum : (vi) the two Pokerior Palatine Holes, tranfmitting the nerves for the palate : («) the Vomer, or bone forming the feptum or partition which divides the two nollrils: (o) the two Upper Spongy Bones, •viz. thofe belonging to the (Ethmoid Bone, hanging in their places high in the nof- trils : (/>) the two Lower Spongy Bones, which are independent bones hung by a hook upon the fide of the Antrum Highmorianum, and confequently hanging very low in the nokrih FIGURES IV. V. and VI. ^Explain the Palate Bones ; where Figures IV. and V. Ihow the two Palate Bones feparated from each other, and from the other bones. Figure VI. fhows the two Palate Bones joined. On thefe drawings, the fame figures kill mark the fame ' points,—the numbers marking Procelfes, and the letters running under them mark- ing as ufual the lelfer parts. i. Shows29 BOOK FIRST, PLATE FOURTH x. Shows the Palate Plate, or Procefs of the Palate Bones; and in Figure VI. the palate plates are joined, fo as to form the back part of the middle palate future ; (7) is the broad rough furface by which the two palate bones are oppofed to eaoh other, and which forms the Middle Palate Suture: (r)is the middle point, from which the Uvula, Pap, or Gurgulion hangs down. 2. Is the Pteregoid Process of the palate bones, having a little hollow into which the Ptcregoid Proceffes of the Sphoenoid Bone are received. 3. Is the Nasal Plates, which lie within the noftrils ; and which, by lying flat upon the fldes of the Antrum Highmorianum, clofe it in part. 4. Is the Orbitary Processes ; for the Nafal Procefs lies up along all the fide of the nollril, and ends in a broader knob, which enters into the focket of the eye at its deepeft part, and is there named Orbitary Procefs. 5. Marks the Cell or Cells of the Palate Bone, which are in its Orbitary Procefs, and ■which are joined to thofe of the Sphoenoid bone. FIGURES VII. and VIII. T he two Spongy Bones. Ficure VII. Explains the rolled and fpongy appearance of the fpongy bone. It re- prefents that furface which is turned outwards, i. e. towards the feptum of the nofe. Figure VIII. Ihows that flatter fide which is turned towards the Antrum Highmo- rianum, and clofes it; and the letter (1) marks the fmall point, or hook-like pro- cefs, by w'hich this lower fpongy bone is hung upon the edge of the opening into the Antrum Highmorianum. ('t) is the fore end of the fpongy bone, which is turn- ed forwards in the nofe, covering the lower end of the nafal du£t; fo that in feeking to clear the du6t with a probe, we muft pafs it under this point. (u) is the other end of the fpongy bone, which is turned backwards in the noftrils. TheOF THE BONES. 30 The pofiticn of the fpongy bone in the noftrils is well explained in Figure III. and the fore part of the fame fpongy bone is feen in Plate VI. Figure II. FIGURE IX. Represents the Vomer. 1. The Groove, in its upper part, by which it fits aftride upon the Azygous Procefles of the CEthmoid and Sphoenoid Bones. 2. Its Lower Groove by which it fits down upon the rifing point of the Maxillary and palate bones: and (r) Figure VI. lhows how it Hands upon the palate bones. The letter (v) Figure VI. (hows the Great Groove turned upwards to be fixed to the Azygous Proceftes of the (Ethmoid and Sphoenoid bones, and the letter («) Figure III. fhows the Vomer in its right place in the nofe, dividing the noftrils. 3. The Ragged Grooved Surface, which looks forwards and receives the plate of car- tilage, which completes the partition betwixt the noftrils. FIGURE X. R Epresents the Cheek Bone. 1. Shows the Upper Orbitary Procefs. 2. Marks the Inferior or Lower Orbitary Procefs. 3. The Maxillary Procefs. 4. The Zygomatic Procefs ; and 5. Marks the plate which forms the lower and fore part of the focket for the eye, and fo is named the Internal Orbitary Procefs. „ FIGURESBOOK FIRST, PLATE FOURTH. FIGURES XI. and XII. Explain the lower jaw bone, in two views , but every Figure applies to each bone, and the Figures proceed in the order of the Text Book. 1. The Chin; the lines comprehend the Chin in their courfe, and they terminate fo as to mark the fmall Mental Holes on both fides of the Chin, where the nerves, after having furnilhed the teeth, come out upon the face. 2. Marks the line of the Bafe of the Jaw, extending from the Chin to the Angle. 3. Marks the Angle of the Jaw, which is irregular and knotty, by the infertion of the great Mafieter Mufcle. 4. The Coronoid Procefles of the jaw. 5. The Condoloid or Articulating Procefles ; (j/) the great hole which receives the lower Maxillary Nerve. We fee here likewife the deep and wide groove that leads to the nerve; and another deep, but fmaller groove, which fhows where the nerve which belongs to the tongue, departs from the great nerve, and runs along the inner fide of the jaw bone betwixt it and the tongue. £ Is the Alveolar or Socket Process, with the teeth in it. PLAT EfUMM/Hr*. MHrtmrJ.H,// M-lai.r tf y , cc/z. . K >i » ■ • f ’ I > * -\ r o e . ' liBOOK FIRST, PLATE FIFTH. 31 PLATE V, This Plate explains the Text Book, in all the Chapters upon the Seull. Xs a general view of the Cranium, explaining and connecting the demonftrations of the individual parts. FIGURE I. In this view, where the Cranium or Scull Cap is cut off, and the bafis feen from within, the thing that firft ftrikes the eye is,—the formal and regular divilion of the Cra- nium into three hollows (r. 2. 3.) ; and each of thefe is like a ftage or deck, the one lower than the other. (1.) Is the fore part of the bafis of the Scull, the ihalloweft and molt fuperficial hollow. It is formed chiefly by the Frontal, (Ethmoidal and Sphcenoidal Bones. It is marked with undulating lines, correfponding with the inteftine-like convolutions of the brain* •——This divifion fupports the Fore Lobes of the brain, and gives paffage to the Olfactory and Optic Nerves. (2.) Is a large hollow, cup-like, deeper than the firft; —lying under the temple; » formed chiefly by the wings of the Temporal and Sphcenoidal, and by the corners of the Frontal and Parietal Bones. This holds the Middle Lobes of the brain, contains the Petrous part of the Temporal Bone;—gives out all the fmaller Nerves be- E longing 1OF THE BONES. -3-4 longing to the Eye, and all the great nerves belonging to the Upper and Lower jaws ; it gives alfo the Auditory Nerves, which enter here into the Petrous Portion of the Temporal Bone. (3). Is a ftage lower ftill, being _the deepeft hollow of the three ; is formed chiefly by the cup of the Occipital Bone, and by a fmall part of the Temporal Bones; —and as the Cerebellum fupports the back lobes of the brain, this hollow may reprefent the back lobes, or the third divifion of the brainfo this laft hollow con- tains the Cerebellum ; gives out the Lingual Nerves, which pafs through a hole of the Os Occipitis ; and fends out the Spinal Marrow through the Fora- men Magnum, or Great Hole. FIRST DIVISION. In the nrft divilion are feen the parts and holes of the Frontal, (Ethmoidal, and Sphoenoidal Bones, Frontal Bone. (o') Marks the Cancelli, or Diploe of the Frontal Bone fo cut as to make the Cancelli appear very wide ; but that proceeds from having cut the fcull very low, which has taken off the outer layer of the Orbitary Procefs. (7>) Marks the regular or proper Frontal Sinufes, which are thus underftood to be like enlarged cells of the Diploe; while (c) lhows a part of the cells going dawn into the Orbitary Plates : fcr the finufes fometimes extend thus all over the eye, as in this fcull; and the letter (c), while it points to this extenlion of the Frontal Sinus, is fo placed as to mark the undulating forms, which the lobes of the brain give to this thin Orbitary plate of the Frontal Bone. (EthmoidalBOOK FIRST, PLATE FIFTH. 35 (Ethmoidal Bone. There is incafed betwixt (c c) the Orbitary Plates of the Frontal Bone, the Cri- briform plate of the (Ethmoidal Bone;—where (//) marks the Cribiform Plate with its numerous fmall holes for tranfmitting the Olfactory Nerves, (<?) Marks the Crilta Galli, whence the Falx begins. (J~) Points to that hole which is called the Blind Hole, wdiich is as fmall as a pin’s point, and which belongs in common to the (Ethmoidal and Frontal Bones. N. B. The fmall crack, to which the lines running downwards from (cP) point, and which indicates the Suture furrounding the (Ethmoidal Bone and named (Eth- moidal Suture, can hardly be miltaken. Spiioenoidal Bone. The Sphenoid Bone is known here by its two proceffes named Transver.se Spi- nous, or Little Wings of Ingrasias marked^); the lines from the letter (g~) point to the Sphoenoidal Suture^, which feparate* this Bone from the Frontal and C £ ana *c£ (Ethmoid Bones, (h IP) Mark the two Anterior (Ethmoid Proceffes. (z) Marks the Pofterior Clinoid Procefs ; for it is rather one Procefs terminating in two little horns or knobs. (k) Is fet down in the Sella Turcica in the very centre of the Cli- noid Proceffes where the Pituitary Gland is lodged. (/ /) Mark the two Optic Holes, which are fcarcely feen, for they lie under the twTo Anterior Clinoid pro- ceffes, fo as to be almoft hidden by them : -—The two lines going from the letter, (m) mark the two wide grooves, which are formed by the Carotid Arteries as they rife by the fides of the Sella Turcica ; and the letter (m) itfelf fits upon a large groove made by the Optic Nerves, where they enter into the Optic Holes. E 2 SECOND3 6 OF THE BONES. SECOND D I V I S I O InI. This divifion fiiov/s points of the Sthoenoid alfo, but chiefly of the Temporal Bone, and of the Corner of the Parietal Bone. Sphoenoid Bone. (n) Shows the Foramen Lacerum under the Wing of Ingrafias, by which all the fmaller nerves enter into the focket for furnifhing the eye-ball, (o) Showrs behind that, the Foramen Rotundum for the nerve of the upper jaw : (p) The Foramen O- vale for the nerve of the lower jaw and (a) fhows the Spinous Hole, which is large here that it may be feen, (Tor naturally it is extremely finally, and the Groove, formed by the great artery of the Dura Mater as it enters by this fpinous hole, is alfo feen here (r) marked very hard and ftrong. Parietal Bone. It is upon the corner of the Parietal Bone, that this groove (V) is formed by the artery of the Dura Mater. Temporal Bone. The point of the Petrous Portion of the Temporal Bone is feen here proje&ing into the balls or floor of the cranium. The point of the triangular Petrous Portion is marked (s) ; and the Internal Auditory Hole, by which the auditory nerve or 7th nerve en- ters into the ear is marked (t). THIRD DIVISION. In this third divifion nothing almoft but the Occipital Bone is feen; and its parts are thefe.—(w u) The two great hollows in which the lobes of the cerebellum lie. O) 2■BOOK FIRST, PLATE FIFTH 37 (v) is the Ridge betwixt thefe two hollows, which rifes very high, is called the Internal Spine of the Occipital Bone, and has a fmall falx (Tomewhat like the larger onej attached to it. (w) Marks the Foramen Lacerum, or wide irregular hole betwixt the Temporal and Occipital Bones, through which the Lateral Sinus paffes to go down into the neck, where it forms the Great Internal Jugular Vein. And the 8th pair of nerves, or Par Vagum accompanies the vein through this hole.— (x) Stands upon the very middle of the Cuneiform or Wedge-like Procefs of the Occipital and Sphoenoidal Bones ; for the two bones meet here, without any de- termined or regular limits for either.—And (y) Hands in the center of the Foramen Magnum, by which the Spinal Marrow goes dawn into the canal of the Spine. FIGURE II. HP a his drawing explains the Balls of the Scull, as it is turned towards the neck and throat. But this furface is fo rough,, irregular, and confufed, that it will not bear that fair ar- rangement and complete enumeration of procefles which the firft figure bears. The furfaces chiefly to be obferved, and.which may ferve in fome degree to arrange the fubjeft, are 1ft. The Jaw and Palate Bones, id, The Root of the Temporal Bones. 3d, The Lower Part of the Occipital Bones. 1. About the Palate we obferve, (a) The Alveolar Procefs of the upper Jaw Bone, robbed of many of its teeth ; (l) the Palate Plate of the Upper Jaw Bone, forming a chief part of the roof of the mouth ; (c) the Palate Plate of the proper Palate Bone, which forms nearly one third of the Palate ; (d~) the Tranfverfe Palate Suture, which runs acrofs the Palate, joining the Palate Bone to the Palate Procefs of the Jaw Bone ; (e) the Middle or Longitudinal Palate Suture, which joins the bones of the oppofite fides ; (J~) the Foramen Incifivum, or Anterior Palatine Hole, lying juft behind the firft cutting teeth, and common to both bones ; (g) the pofterior Palatine Hole, which permits the38 07 'THE BONES. the Palatine Nerve and Artery, to come down from the back of the noftrils to the Palate. • _ The backs of the noftrils are formed by the rifing plates of the proper Palate Bones, and by the Pteregoid Proceffes. At the back of the noftrils, we fee, (£) the Vomer, fo named from its refemblance to a plough-ftiare, and ftanding exa&ly in the middle, for it is the partition of the nofe ; (i) the Outer Pteregoid Procefs, forming the back of the noftrils ; (£) the Hook of the Inner Pteregoid Procefs, upon which the tendon of the Teiifor Palati Mufcle turns : and a fmall tip of the Palate Bones, which is at this point covered by thefe Pteregoid Proceffes of the Sphcenoid Bone, is named, the Pteregoid Procefs of the Palate Bone. And (/) marks the appearance outwardly of the Wedge-like Proceffes of the Occipital and Sphcenoidal Bones. 2. About the roots of the Temporal Bones we have, (7;/) the Boot of the Zygomatic Procefs, where the Condyle of the lower Jaw plays ; and («) the Ridge juft before the Condyle, upon the top of which the Condyle ftands, in a dangerous fituation, almoft out of its focket when the jaws are opened wide; and which it flips over, getting into the hollow for the Temporal Mufcle, when the lower jaw is diflocated. (0) Is the Mamillary, and (/>) the Styloid Procefs, of the Temporal Bone, (q) Is the Oval Hole of the Sphcenoid Bone, for tranfmitting the great nerve of the lower jaw. (r) Is the Spinous Hole of the Sphoenoid Bone, for admitting the artery of the Dura Mater, (s) Is the hole near the point of the Temporal Bone, for the Carotid Artery. (t 11) The Crucial Ridges of the Os Occi- pitis.—(u) The Pofterior Tuber, or the Acute and Prominent Point of the Occipital Bone.—(x) The Additamentum Suturae Lambdoidalis, which joins the back cor- ner of the Temporal to the Occipital Bone. The Zygoma, as formed by the Zygomatic Proceffes of the Temporal Bone, and of the Cheek Bone, is marked (y) ; and the hollow under the Zygoma for lodging the Temporal Mufcle and the branch of the lower jaw to which that mufcle is attach- ed, is marked (ss) ; and is feen in this view on both fides full and large. PLATEBOOK THIRD, PLAlTE FIFTH. SUPPLEMENTARY EXPLANATION to PLATE V. Of the BONES, HAVING., in doing the outline to this plate, found it poffible to mark the points more corre&ly, I have added the following explanations in thi« fupplementary page; and that they may unite eafily with the firft ex- planation, I repeat the effential points. In the Upper Scull there are*. r. The Optic hole (/). 2. On each fide of the letter (m), there is the likenefs of a fecond Optic hole,, but. it is merely the impreffion which the laft turn of the Carotid Artery makes. 5. («) Is the Foramen Lacerum. 4. (0) Is the Foramen Rotundum. 5 (P) t^le Foramen Ovale. 6. (g) Is the Spinous Hole. •j. («) Marks the round hole by which the Carotid Artery enters the Ikull, after wind- ing through a crooked canal in the Temporal bone, about an inch in length. 8. The figure (8.) points to a great breach in the rocky part of the Temporal bone , this breach is occafioned by the falling away of the Cartilaginous part of the Euf- tachian Tube. Therefore this wide breach is found in every Church-yard fcull$ and the hole for the Carotid Artery marked (ss), opens where this breach ends. 9. It is obferved of the great hole marked (u>), for the paffage of the Jugular Vein, that it is large and irregular ; that it is almoft divided into two openings, by a fmall proje&ing point 5 the line extending from the letter (w), touches exaftly this fmall point..38* OF THE BONES. point. The eighth pair of nerves paffes in the fmaller opening bepore the point, the Jugular Vein paffes in the greater opening behind it; a fmall bridle of the Dura Mater goes acrofs from this point, and makes the two holes diftind in the frelh fcull, and defends the eighth pair of nerves from the preffure of the Jugular Vein, when (as often happens) it is turgid with blood. to. The number (10.) marks the hole under the Condyle by which the ninth pair of nerves, the Lingual Nerve goes out. In Figure II. the chief points are thefe, (f) Marks the Anterior Palatine Hole. (g) Marks the Pofterior Palatine Hole. (h) The Vomer, or bone forming the partition of the nofe. (i) The outer Pteregoid Procefs. (£) The Inner Pteregoid Procefs. (/) The Cuneiform Procefs of the Occipital Bone. (x.) Marks the Foramen Lacerum, not that which is marked (») in figure i. but another Foramen Lacerum belonging alfo to the orbit, not for the tranfmiffion of nerves, but for the lodging of fat. ('q) Marks the Foramen Ovale. (r) The Spinous Hole. (2.) Is that great breach which is left by the fading of the Cartilaginous end of the Euf- tachian Tube. (r) Is the hole for the paffage of the Carotid Artery, which as on the infide of the fcull opens immediately behind the breach. (3.) Marks the, great Thimble-like hole, by which the Lateral Sinus comes out from the Scull, to form the great Jugular Vein. (4.) Is a hole feated behind the Condyle, the hole marked (10.) in figure i. is before the Condyle, and gives paffage to the ninth or Lingual pair of nerves ; this fmaller hole is behind the Condyle, and gives paffage to a fmall vein of the neck.3ft ves JMfi.Jp, • Outline I.I39 BOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. PLATE VI. This Plate explains the Text Booh, in all the Chapters upon the Scull. G IVES i fi, .a general view of the Cranium, the reverfe of the firfl plate; and 2d, a vertical fedion of the Cranium, which fhews the relation and bearing of many important parts,—explains particularly the great train of finufes or cells, which make all the bafis of the Cranium hollow,—ex- plains alfo the fpongy bones,—the Antrum Highmorianurn,—the Nafal or Lachrymal Dud,—and the Mouth of the Euflachian Tube, which is feen here Huffed out, and dried, to make its opening immediately behind the noftrils at the back of the palate more diftind. FIGURE I. OUTSIDE OF THE SCULL*. a The Os Frontis ; where (a) marks the bump of the Frontal Sinus ; (£) The Super- ciliary Ridge, dotted with marks of its Nutritious Arteries ; (y) The Superciliary Notch, and hole which the Frontal Nerve and Artery make. B- The * Let the reader remember that there cannot be a perfect correfpondence of figures through all the plates; that no more could be attempted in the anatomy of the Bones, (a fubject fo irregular) than juft to makeOF THE BONES. 4° B. The Parietal Bone, and the letter is fo placed as to mark that femicircular ridge where the Temporal Mufcle arifes. C. Marks the Temporal Bone. Where (d) marks the Meatus Auditorius ; (e) the Maftoid Procefs ; (f) the Zygoma; and (g) a Double Squamous Suture, as in the fcull from which this was drawn. D. Marks the Cheek bone where all its connexions are feen; (h) with the Temporal bone ; (i) with the Frontal Bone; (k) with the upper Jaw Bone. E. Marks the Wing of the Sphoenoid Bone, where it lies in the Squamous Suture ; and the four corners of bone forming the Squamous Suture, are (7) the corner of the Sphoenoid (m) the corner of the Parietal; (n) the corner of the Temporal; and (o) the Corner of the Frontal Bone. F. Marks the Small Bone of the Nofe, where the middle Nafal Suture is feen. G. Points to the Upper Jaw Bone. The letter is placed upon the Alveolar or Socket Procefies ; and the fmall letter (p) marks the Infra Orbitary Hole. H Marks the Lower Jaw Bone, this letter touching the point of the chin ; while the fmall letter (q) marks the line of the bails of the lower jaw; (r) the mark of the Maffeter Mufcle, the point into which it is inferted; (s') the Mental Hole by which a twig of the lower Maxillary Nerve comes out upon the face, juft as the twig of the upper Maxillary Nerve comes out upon the face by the Infra Orbitary Hole, at (p). In the Orbit, (t) marks the holes, which being within the orbit, (for arteries and nerves pafling down into the noftril,) are called Internal Orbitary Holes, to diftinguifh them from the Supra Orbitary and Infra Orbitary Holes. Of thefe internal Orbitary Holes, make each plate fyftematic and orderly in itfelf, without reference to any other plate. And fo in each plate the great letters point to the general Bone, and the lefler alphabet marks and arranges the individual parts.4l BOOK FIRST, PLATE SIXTH. Holes, one is named the Anterior, the other is named the Posterior, Orbitary Hole. So that in this drawing, there are feen all the holes around the Orbit, vix. (r) The Supra Orbitary Hole, or Superciliary Hole; (^) the Infra Orbitary Hole; and (l) the internal Orbitary PIole. In the orbit is feen (;/) the Tranfverfe Suture on the right lide pure ; on the left fide alfo it is feen, but appears very ir- regular as it really is, for it joins together a great many irregular bones. Within the orbit fome other parts are alfo feen here, which are not fo well explained in any other plate.—The whole conftitution of the orbit is feen ; — (i.) Marks the Os Unguis in its plain part, where the eye rolls upon it. (2.) Marks the Groove of Os Unguis, where the nafal du£l lies ; (3.) the Os Planum, which is in fa£l the plain fide of the (Ethmoid bone as feen Plate III. Fig. III. at (e.) (4.) Is the Orbitary Procefs of the Upper Jaw Bone. (5.) Is the Orbitary Procefs of the Sphoenoid Bone, which is exadtly oppofite to its Temporal Ala or wing (E.) (6.) Is the Orbitary Plate of the Frontal Bone, which forms far the greater part of the Orbit; and (7.) at the bottom of the Orbit is the Optic hole. In the Nofe, the letter (w) denotes the Vomer, the bone which forms the partition of the Nofe. FIGURE II. THE VERTICAL SECTION OF THE SCULL. A Is the Frontal Bone ; where (a) marks the Coronal Suture feen from within like a mere crack, and not ferrated or "zig-zag, as on the outer furface of the fcull; (3) marks the fmall proje&ing Spine, to which the falx is attached, and which projects fometimes half an inch, making it impoflible to trepan fafely at this point; (c) the Orbitary Procefs, or plate, which lies over the eye; (d) the Bump mark- F ingOF THE BONES. 42 ing the Frontal Sinus or cavity, (i.) The cavity or finus itfelf, with a crofs bar in it, as there commonly is. B The Inner Surface of the Parietal Bone; with the Artery of the Dura Mater, or rather its impreflion or furrow ieen. C The Inner Surface of the Occipital Bone ; where (V) marks the Winding Groove of the Lateral Sinus ; (/") that Groove ending in the thimble-like cavity, and the thimble-like cavity ending in its turn in the Foramen Lacerum, by which the finus gets out; and there paffes along with it through this wfide flit, the Par Vagum, or eighth pair of nerves. Qr) Marks the thicknefs of the bone, at the place of the Crucial Pddge ; (&) its thinnefs, where it is loaded and prefled by the lobes of the brain, (z) Shows the feftion of the Foramen Magnum, (i) Marks the Cuneiform Procefles of the Occipital and Sphcenoidal Bones *. D Marks the Temporal Bone, where (/) points out the Foramen Auditorium Inter- num, where the Auditory Nerve enters; and («z) marks the Styloid Procefs. G Marks the Upper Jaw Bone, where it forms the Palate. H Marks the Lower Jaw Bone, where (n) is the fection, Ihowing the Cancelli of the Low’er Jaw ; (o) is the angle ; and here upon the internal furface of the angle, the Pteregoid Mufcle is implanted ; (jC>) the hole by which the proper nerve of the Lower Jaw, the inferior Maxillary Nerve, gets into the heart of the bone; and there going round, accompanied with an artery, a branch of each is given off to every tooth; and what remains of the Nerve and Artery after this, comes out by the Mental hole upon the chin. The curious parts feen in this fection are;—The Cells, Spongy Bones, and the Eus- tachian Tube. The * There are two Foramina Lacera or wide holes, one belonging to the Sphoenoid Bone, in the bot- tom of the focket for the eye ; and this one betwixt the Temporal and Occipital Bones, in the bails of the Sull over the neck or implantation cf the vertebras.BOOK FIRST, PLATE SIXTH. 43 The Cells are marked (i, 2, 3 ;) for (1.) Marks the beginning of this long train o cells, being the cells of the Frontal Bone, commonly called the Frontal Sinufes, communicating with each other, and with the nofe. (2, 2, 2,) Mark the Cells of the (Ethmoid Bone lying under the Cribriform Plate, and feen here by the cut- ting away of the Os Planum. (3,) Marks the Great Sinus of the Sphoenoid Bone. It was pretty large in this fcull, and is known to belong to the Sphcenoid Bone, by the Sella Turcica and Clynoid Proceffes, which are feen in profile above it. (2) Marks the back part of the Septum Nafi left; and looking paft that, into the noftril, the Spongy Bones are feen; (r) the Upper Spongy Bone is already defcribed as a mere procefs of the (Ethmoid Bone, hanging thus downwards into the top of the noftril: (j) the Lower Spongy Bone, is an independent feparate bone ; fmall, as is expreffed Plate IV., and hooked upon the edge of the Antrum Maxillare at this part; the opening of the Antrum is here marked (r). The Lachrymal Dudft is marked by the probe, (t) paffed upwards from the noftril, * and it is feen, by the dire&ion of this probe, that the du<ft opens into the nofe, juft under the point of the Lower Spongy Bone. The Euftachian Tube is a large internal paffage to the ear; which opens at («) juft be- hind the back part of the Palate, and at the back opening of the noftril: here it is well expreffed, the drawing being taken from a fcull which had the cartilaginous o- pening of the tube fluffed out and dried. F 2 PLATE *cPlM.+t BOOK FIRST, PLATE SEVENTH. 45 PLATE VII. This Plate explains the Text Bool, from Page 10$, to Page 129. Explains the VERTE-BRiE, with all their proceffes and parts; and as the fame parts return in each Vertebra, the feveral Vertebrae ought to be explained rather by ranks and orders, than as individual Bones. FIRST ROW. The firft row, confiding of Figures I, II, and III, is drawn for the purpofe of contrafting the three claffes of Vertebrae, viz. the Vertebrae of the Back, of the Neck, and of the loins. FIGURE I. IR Epresents a Vertebra of the Loins ; and the peculiarities of the Lumbar Vertebrae are thefe. (x.) The body is large and broad, thick, fpongy and loofe in its texture, and tipped with a ring, (a) of harder bone. (2.) The Articulating Proceffes, or, as they are called, the Oblique Proceffes, are large, for they have to bear much force; they Hand directly upwards and downwards; the fourOF THE SOME3. 46 FIGURE four Articulating Procefles, (the two upper, as well as the two lower,) are mark- ed 2, 2. (3.) The Spinous Procefs, is fhort, flat, very broad, and Hands horizontally and direftly out, fo as not to embarrafs the motions of the loins. (4.) The Tranfverfe Procefs is ihort, direft, and very Hrong ; and the Articulating Procefles ("2, 2) go off from the root of it. In each Vertebra, there is formed by the roots of the Tranfverfe and Oblique Procefles, where they arife from the body, a ring or circle of Bone, which is in each drawing marked (*)', it is for containing the Spinal Marrow. FIGURE IE Xs a Vertebra of the Back ; where, (T.) The body is fliorter, and is a large fegment (viz. nearly two thirds) of a fmall circle. (2.) The Articulating Process is fmall and flat, and a little inclined, but not very oblique. (3.) The Spinous Procefs is long, aquiline, deprefied to fuch an angle that the two Spi- nous Procefles almoil touch each other, (as is feen in Fig. IV.) (3. 3.) and allow of but a very limited motion. (4.) The Tranfverfe Procefs is long, Hands direftly outwards, or is inclined a little up- wards, and upon every dorfal vertebra there are two marks for the articulation of the ribs ; one (U) on the fide of the vertebra itfelf, or rather betwixt the bodies of two vertebrae, for the proper head of the rib, (Tig. X. and XI.) ( 1.); and again there is another articulating furface (c) upon the face or fore part of the Tranfverfe Procefs, which is for the articulation of the little knob (Fig. X. and XI.) (3.) upon the back part of each rib.47 BOOK FIRST, PLATE SEVENTH FIGURE FIGURE III. ThE Cervical Vertebra has thefe chief chara&ers, (i.) The body is fmall, firm, and of more folid and condenfed bone than in the vertebrae of the loins or back. (2.) The Articulating Procefs is truely oblique. (3.) The Spinous Procefs is Ihort, and is forked. (4.) The Tranfverfe Procefs is fhort, forked, and has a large hole in it for a great artery of the brain, which by its palling through this canal of the vertebrae is named Verte- bral Artery. SECOND ROW. This Row explains chiefly the conneftions of the Vertebrae. FIGURE IV. uHows the manner in which one Dorfal Vertebra fits down upon another, fo that the Articulating Proceffes (2. 2.) check upon one another, and the Spinous Procefles (3, 3) are feen to be long and aquiline, and lying fo over each other as to prevent all motion backwards or forwards, while the ribs limit the motion to either fide. But in this drawing the one Spinous Procefs is tilted up from the other a little, owing to- the want of that intervertebral fubfiance which Ihould lie betwixt the bodies. The hole is feen here at (d) betwixt the two vertebrae, by which a nerve goes off at the in- terftice between each Vertebra : fo there are in all twenty-four nerves of the Spine, correfponding with the number of Vertebrae in the Spine.FIGURE OIC THE BONES. aS FIGURE V. p-ir* L WO Dorfal Vertebrae are here feen in their right pofition, conne&ed by the interver- tebral fubftance ; with the end of one rib in its place; and at (h) is feen one arti- culating furface on the body of the vertebra naked. At (c) is feen the articulating furface, upon the face of the Tranfverfe Procefs, naked. At (zf) is feen the head of the rib covering the two articulating furfaces ; connefled at (e) with the body, and at (f) with the Tranfverfe Procefs of its own vertebra. FIGURE VI. Xs a drawing of the Intervertebral Substance, which is of that ambiguous nature, that anatomifts choofe this name, to avoid the dilemma of calling it either Cartilage or Ligament, when it has not the chara&er diftin&ly either of Cartilage or of Ligament. It is Ihown here as it is found betwixt the Lumbar Vertebrae; and the concentric circles of which it confifts are better exprefied towards the margin (g) ; but towards the centre, and efpecially in the very middle, it becomes foft, pulpy, the circles confuf- ed. The fubftance is fo much fofter in the centre, that there is almoft a hole at (£) ; efpecially when the bone is allowed to fpoil a little, as this one was. At (z) is feen a flight indication of the Spinal marrow, (which was alfo corrupted,) going down through the great hole of the vertebra. THE THIRD ROW. Explains the forms of the Atlas and Dentatus ; the two Vertebrae by which almoft f •I all the motions of the head are performed. Fig. VII. explains the Atlas; Fig. VIII. explains the Dentatus ; Fig. IX, fhows the way in which the Atlas fits down upon the tooth-like procefs and oblique fhoulders of the Dentatus.49 BOOK FIRST, PLATE THIRD. FIGURE VII, Explains the Atlas, or-firft Vertebra, where we find, (i,) The body entirely wanting, and the place of the body fupplied by Articulating Sur- faces (2, 2), fo large as to give fufficient ftrength and thlcknefs to the fides of the ring. V. B. At the place where the body flrould be, there is at (^) a fmooth Articulating Sur- face for the Tooth-like Procefs of the Atlas rolling. There is at (/) a little tip or point, which is tied by ligaments to the margin of the Occipital Hole; at (m) there is a fort of ftraitening in the ring, and at this point a ligament goes acrofs the ring, di- viding it into two, and holding firm the tooth-like procefs. (2.9 The Oblique or Articulating Procefles of this vertebra are oval, and of a converging form; and this peculiarity in their diredtion limits the motions of the head, fo that it 4 cannot turn, but only nod, upon the Atlas. (3.) The Spinous Procefs is wanting. A fmall knob reprefents the fpinous procefs ; and the want of this fpine enables the Atlas to turn freely in circles upon the Dentatus. (4.) The Tranfverfe Procefs, alfo ending in a little knob, and perforated by the large hole for the Vertebral Artery. FIGURE VIIL rf"’’ J HE Dentatus, where the points of defcription are, (i.J) The whole body of the Vertebra, riling gradually towards the apex or point of its axis or tooth-like procefs, which is marked (m). (2.) The broad flat articulating furfaces, like fhoulders, at the root of the tooth-like pro- cefs ; upon which the atlas refts and turns. G 3. The1^0 OF THE BONES. (3.) The Spinous Procefs is fhort, thick, and forked. (4.) The Tranfverfe Procefs fhort, knobby, and perforated with the Vertebral Plole. («) Marks the Neck or Collar, the narrow part of the Tooth-like Procefs, where it is embraced by the Atlas and (m) marks the Apex or pointed extremity of the Tooth-like Procefs. (0) Shows how deep the ring of this particular vertebra is, and how fairly triangular its great hole for the paflage of the fpinal marrow is. FIGURE IX. Explains the manner of connexion betwixt the Atlas and the Dentatus ; fhows the ring of the Atlas fet down upon the fhoulders of the Dentatus;——and here all the parts are marked with the fame numbers as in the other drawings. FIGURE X. and XI. jA.RE Drawings of the Ribs: where we fee,—(1.) the Head of the Rib, by which it is joined to the body of the vertebra." (2.) The Neck or flraitning beyond the head.—(3.) The Tubercle by which it is articulated with the Tranfverfe Procefs.-—• (4.) Another little Tubercle, beyond this fecond articulating furface. (5.) The Angle of the Rib, or the point from which it begins to bend forwards, [p) the Groove in which the intercoftal artery lies. (q) The more fpongy end of the rib, with a fort of rude focket, which receives the cartilage that joins it to the fternum. FIGURE XII. R Epresents the whole length of the Sternum. (1.) Marks the Upper Part of the Sternum; where (r) fhows the pointed part of this firfl 151 BOOK FIRST, PLATE SEVENTH. PLATE firft. bone turned downwards to meet the fecond piece of the Sternum, (j) Is a hollow which makes way for the Trachea, &c. (r t') Are two articulating furfaces, by which the clavicle of either fide is joined to this piece of the flernum. (2.) The fecond piece of the Sternum, of great length, receiving the cartilages of moll of the ribs ; and the fockets for receiving the cartilages are feen, though not very fully all along its edge at (u u) &c. (3.') Is the Enliform Cartilage, which in moll bodies is llraight pointed, as in this drawing, but fometimes bifurcated fometimes bent down, or on the contrary turn- ned remarkably upwards 5 very feldom offificd, except in thofe perfons who are ex- re me ly old. ♦ G atpjL.VU \oJres /kA/j/AWfor i/l* aai/u J. JSn'/ o r-tolr. J £j ^•jrb 3 ai r li | ur.eIq«9L?jajaii ?i i at>39.<f ■ i ■ ■• .' A T i f) '* ' ■ I ..S3 BOOK FIRST, PLATE EIGHT. H PLATE VIII. This Plate explains the ‘Text Book, frem Page IOJ, to Page I47. Is a general view of all the Bones of the Trunk. It is chiefly ufeful by Blowing the general pofition of Bones which have been already mi- nutely explained, and requires only a very loofe and general explanation, becaufe it is a general plate merely, upon which the parts and procefles need not be minutely told. A The Ring of the firft Vertebra or Atlas. B The Tip of the Tooth-like Procefles of the Dentatus. C The Bodies of the Cervical Vertebrae. D Their Tranfverfe Procefles. E The Holes betwixt the Vertebrae, by which the Cervical Nerves come out from the canal of the fpinal marrow. F The Fu-ft Rib, lying flat and level here ; and it is at this place, betwixt the clavicle and the firft rib that the fubclavian veflels come out. G The General Convex of the Thorax, formed by the middle of the ribs.—(a a a) Mark the ends of the ribs which receive the cartilages, by which the ribs are joined to the fternum. G Marks the Seven True Ribs./ 54 or THE BONES. H Marks the 3 firft Falfe Ribs, whofe cartilages run into the cartilage of the feventh rib. I Marks the Two Loofe or floating Ribs, whofe cartilages do not join the other cartilages, nor are united to the fternum ; but Hand out in the flanks, free and independent, their cartilages being buried in the thick fleih of the abdominal mufcles. K The Cartilages of the Ribs. L The Firfl or triangular piece of the Sternum. M The Second or long piece, which receives almoft all the Cartilages. N The Third peice, as it is ufually called; though it is merely Cartilage, to extreme old age.—This 3d piece N is the Cartilago Mucronata, Enfiformis, or Swordlike. O The Clavicle, or Collar Bone, as it lies upon the top of the cheil; and here it is feen how the bone by its proper pofltion, keeps off and fupports the fcapula or flioulder- blades. P Marks the lower border of the Scapula. (£) Marks the Acromian Procefs, to which the Clavicle is connebted. —(<:) is the Glenoid or Articulating Cavity, for holding the fiioulder bone ; (7f) is the Caracoid Procefs, fhowfing how it projects on the infide of the joint, in the hollow under the arch of the Clavicle.—It is plain from this pofltion , 1 of the procefs, that it fliould be felt on the breaft juft above the border of the Axilla. The bodies of the Lumbar VertebrEe, thick and maffy to fupport the weight of all the parts above. R The Tranfverfe proceffes of the Lumbar Vertebra, (dd') touch the Spinous. Proceffes, where they appear in the interftices of the Tranfverfe ones.——(eee) Mark the intervertebral fubftances, or rather reprefent the putty, which is put betwixt the Vertebrae (in making our ikeleton) to Hand, in place of the interverte- bral fubftance. S The Os Sacrum ; where (ff) reprefent the holes of the Sacrum difpofed regular- ly in pairs.—(gg) Reprefent the white lines, which were cartilaginous in the child dividing the Sacrum into five pieces, but are now confolidated into white lines of pro- minent bone particularly hard and firm (h) Reprefents the joining of the Sacrum to the Os Ilium at either fide, which joining is named the Sacro-Iliac Symphyfis. T Thatr* r> BOOK FIRST, PLATE EIGHTH. PLATE DO T That divifton of the Os Innominatum, which is called the Os Ilium ; where (i) marks the hollow bofom of that expanded wing, which lying obliquely outwards like the wing of a chariot, is called the Ala Ilii : the Iliacus Interims Mufcle, arifes from this furface. — (k) Is the circle called the Spine or Ridge of the Os Ilium. (/) Is the fudden lliarp point, by which the Spine ends, and which is there named the Spinous Procefs, to which the name Anterior is added, to diftinguilh it from others, which lie concealed in the joining with the Sacrum. This Anterior Superior Spi- nous Procefs has another under it fmaller and marked (in'), which is called the An- terior Inferior Spinous Procefs. It is merely a fmall Bump, over the top of the focket for the origin of the Reftus Mufcle. (11) Marks the back or Dorfum llii, from which the Glutsei Mufcles arife. U U Thefe two letters interfeft all that part of the Os Innominatum, which is called Ifchium ; where (o') marks the body of the bone, where it forms a chief lhare in the focket. (p) Marks the Spinous Procefs, which js feen through the opening of the Pelvis projecting towards the Sacrum »(y) Marks the Tuberofity or Bump of the Os Ifchium, the loweft point of the Pelvis, and the .part upon which we reft in Jsch.uA.vi fitting ; and (r) marks the Ramus, or branch of the Rafe, as it rifes to meet a like A branch of the Pubis. V Marks the third piece of the Os Innominatum, viz. the Pubis ;—where (j) is the body, where it forms part of the focket for the thigh-bone ; (t) the higheft point named Crifta Pubis; (u) points to the Symphifts Pubis, or joining of the oppoftte bones ;—(w) marks the leg of the Pubis, defcending to meet the leg of the Ifchium. The Rami of the Ifchium and of the Pubis form, with the other parts of the Os Innominatum ; firft the Arch of the Pubis ;—fecondly, the Thyroid Hole ; and the Rami are faid to meet one half belonging to the Pubis, and one half to the Ifchium, becaufe they are in fa<5l feparate in the child ; a clear tranfparent cartilage, being interpofed betwixt them. (x) Marks this Thyroid Hole; and (j) marks the Acetabulum or focket for the thigh bone.f • I 157 BOOK FIRST, PLATE NINTH. The H PLATE IX. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 147, to Page Ij8. Represents the Thigh Bone, Tibia, and Fibula. FIGURES I. and II. J^Erresent the fore and back views of the Thigh Bone.—And in order that the letter prefs may proceed in the regular order of a little defcription or demonftration, the fmall figures are put upon each drawing; fo that any number that is wanting on one drawing, mull be found on the other. The First Figure fhows the Back Part of the Thigh Bone, which is marked by our feeing here, from behind, the length of the neck of the bone;—the manner of its riling out of the two great proceffes, the Trochanters ;—the proje&ion and roughnefs of the Linea Afpera, and the deep hollow betwixt the Condyles. The Second Figure, or the fore view, is exceedingly fimple, having no ftrong marks. The Linea Afpera is turned almoll out of fight. The chief peculiarity of the fore view is, that it fhows the bending form of the bone.53 OF THE BONES. FIGURE The Points of Description are, (1.) Tiie Body : ——.very thick, flrong, of a cylindrical form, bending outwards with a gentle curve. (2.) The Head, which is very fmooth, and very fairly circular. It is a large fegmeut of a fmall circle, and is let pretty deep down into its focket. There is a dimple at (a which marks the place wrhere the central ligament once was. (3.) The Neck of the Bone, long, and almoft horizontal, to fet the ftiaft of the bone the wider off from the Haunch Bone, that it may move freely. (4.) The great Trochanter, a large bump or procefs for the infertion of the Glutaei Mufcles. (5.) The lefler Trochanter, a fmaller procefs, for the infertion of many mufcles which move the Thigh Bone inwards. (6.) The Linea Afpera, or rough line, from which much of the Mufcular flefli that covers the thigh arifes. And this Linea Afpera, or rough line begins at (b) in a forking form from the roots of each Trochanter :—-the two lines meet, and the Linea Afpera becomes fingle in the middle of the thigh, (r)—Towards its lower end (d) it forks again to go off towards each Condyle. (7.) The two Condyles, which form the great articulating furfaces of the Thigh Bone, where it lies in the knee-joint.—In Fig. II. we fee that the inner Condyle (e) is the larger one ; being larger to compenfate for the oblique direction of the thigh bone. At (f) Fig. II. we fee, covered with cartilage, the flat polilhed furface upon which the Rotula or knee-pan rolls.—And in Fig. I. at (g) we fee the very deep notch betwixt the two Condyles, in which the crucial ligaments of the knee-joint lie.59 BOOK FIRST, PLATE NINTH. FIGURE III. The Tibia. *X*HIS is a drawing of the right Tibia, feen from before. The upper end belonging to the knee is large and broad, and is likened to the trumpet end of a pipe. The lower head belonging to the ancle is fmall, and has one projecting point, viz. that which forms the inner ancle, and which is thought to refemble the flute-mouth of a pipe. The whole Bone has the triangular or prifmatic form of the Ulna and Radius. (l._) Is the Upper head of the Tibia belonging to the knee joint; where (h) marks a lit- tle tubercle or riling, which divides the two articulating furfaces from each other. It is from the back part of this tubercle, that the crofs ligaments of the knee joint arife. (f i) Mark the two lunar hollows, upon which the two Condyles of the thigh bone reft, and in which the femilunar or moveable cartilages of the knee joint lie. (£) Is that rough circle which bounds the articulating furface, and from which the Capfular Ligament arifes. (7) Is the tubercle or bump of the Tibia, upon which we reft ia kneeling, and into which the great fore tendon called the Ligament of the Patella is fixed : and (m) is the prominent ridge of the lhin, which begins from this tubercle, and goes downwards in the waving form of an Italic f. («) Is that part of the Tibia which receives the upper end of the Fibula. (2.) Is the middle part of the Bone, which is of a triangular or prifmatic form, and the figure (2) is repeated upon each of the three angles. (3.) Is the lower and fmaller head of the Bone belonging to the ancle joint; where (n) marks the fmooth hollow which receives the bones of the foot, and which is named (like the articulating furface of the Radius), the Scaphoid, or Boat-like Cavity of the Tibia. (0) Marks the projefhon or procefs of the inner ancle, which guards the joint, preventing luxation inwards. (/>) Is the fmall cavity on the fide of the Tibia, which receives the lower head of the Fibula, in the way that is reprefented in next plate. H 2 FIGURE 16o OF THE BONES. FIGURE IV. Z S a drawing of the Fibula, which is a long {lender bone, fo extremely fimple in its form, that there needs be no further defcription than this, that the {haft of the bone (q) is exceedingly {lender, is much longer than the Tibia,—and is triangular like the Tibia. The upper end (r) is laid under the projecting head of the Tibia, at (u Fig. III.) and it is laid flat upon it; fo that this articulating and fmooth furface (r) is fmooth only for the fake of a very flight degree of fhuffling motion. The lower end (s) is the larger.—It unites with the lower end of the Tibia (p Fig. III.) to form the ancle joint. This guards the ancle joint without, as the Procefs of the Tibia guards it within. And this fmooth articulating furface (t) is for receiving the fide of the Aftragalus, that bone of the foot by which chiefly the ancle joint is formed. PLATEBOOK FIRST, PLATE TENTH. figure 61 PLATE X. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 153, -° ^aS‘ *66. Explains the Connections of the Tibia and Fibula, and all the Bones of the Foot and of the Toes. FIGURE I. Shows the Tibia and Fibula laid to each other as they lie in the leg ; and here all the letters and figures, explaining the Tibia and Fibula of the laft plate are put upon the very fame points ; fo that no new letters nor figures are required, except (v), to mark that fpace betwixt the Tibia and Fibula in which the Inter-ofleous Mem- brane lies ; and (x) to fhow the arch which is made by (o) the procefs of the inner ancle, and (s) the lower head of the Fibula forming the outer ancle : for the deep- nefs of the arch, and the projection of thefe two points, fhow how very fecure the an- cle joint is; the fmooth head of the Aftragalus marked (a PI, X. Fig. IV.^) being received deep into this arch.6z 0F THE BONES. FIGURE II. Shows the Outer Surface of the Rotula or Patella, which is rough, and marked with many points where its nutritious arteries enter. FIGURE III. Shows the Lower Surface of the Patella, viz. that which is turned towards the cavity of the joint; and here there is feen a riling line at (*,) which lies in the great hollow hetwixt the two Condyles while the two hollows on each lide of this riling move upon the convexities of the Condyles. In lhort, this fmooth inner furface of the pa- tella is moulded as it were upon the furface marked (/) in the laft plate, Figure II. FIGURE IV. and V. .Explain all the Bones of the Foot, viz. of the Tarsus or inltep, of the M etatarsus, and of the Toes. The bones of the Tarfus are 7 in number, fewer and larger than the bones of the Carpus. (1.) The Altragalus is that great bone which immediately forms the ancle joint;—where (a) marks the great ball or cartilaginous pully which is received into the arch formed by the Tibia and Fibula. (£) Is the flat lide of the bone upon which the procelTes of the inner and outer ancles lie, embracing the joint clofely. (c) Is a little flat neck or projeflion which lies over the heel-bone, (d) Is the neck of that large round head which makes a ball and focket joint with the Os Naviculare, which is mark- ed O). 00BOOK FIRST, PLATE TENTH. 6j (2‘) TheOs Calcis lies under the Aftragalus, and is the large!! of the Tarfal Bones,, rap- porting all the weight of the body; and here thefe points chiefly are feen.— ('e)The tip of the bone, which looks upwards, receiving the Tendo Achillis, or great Back Tendon. CO .The loweft rough point ; the point of the heel upon which we Hand.——- (g) The head, by which the Os Calcis is joined to the Os Cuboides, marked (7.) the Os Cuboides being received at this part into a large hollow focket of the Os Calcis. (3.^) Is the Os Naviculare or Scaphoides, whichhas been fo named from its refemblance to a boat. But if there be any fuch refemblance it is eflfe&ually concealed in all thefe' views. The Os Naviculare has rifing edges and a fair round focket, which is turned towards the Aftragulus (1.) to receive the large round head of that bone. (4, 5, and 6.) Are the Cuneiform or Wedge-like Bones ; and in this view the fquare ex- ternal furfaces chiefly are feen ;—and thefe Cuneiform Bones, ought juft to be rec- koned limply according to their order, the firft, fecond, and third cuneiform bones7 beginning with that which fupports the great toe. (7.) The Os Cuboides is a large fquare or cube like bone, as its name implies, but by no- means a regular cube It forms a large ftiare of the Tarfus, and fupports the Me- ta tarfal Bone of the Little Toe. The Cuneiform Bones are lefs eafily underftood, and I have therefore made a fecond drawing of the foot. Fig. V. (where the fame letters and marks are ftill preferv- ed,) in which 1 have lhown the point of the Cuneiform Bones, the Metatarfal ones being taken away. In this figure the faces of the Cuboid and of the Cuneiform Bones are direftly feen. And it is underftood why they are called Cuneiform or wedge-like bones, for the upper furfaces marked (4, 5, 6,) are broad and fquare ; while their lower furfaces at (*) are fmall and pointed ; Thefe fmaller ends of the wedges being turned inwards cr towards the foal of the foot. In Fig. IV. (b) marks the five Metatarfal Bones; fo named from their being placed on thet>4 ©F THE BONES. (£) the fecond,—(/) the third rank , M FIGURE VI. Q . . cHows the foot in profile, and explains particularly well the large head of the Aftra- galus (d'). Thefe drawings are juft half the fize of nature, whence it may eafily be un- S . derftood how large this head of the aftragalus is ; — as large fully as the head of the ftioulder bone :—and the focket of the Os Na viculare, (3), into which this head of the aftragalus is received, is both larger and'a deeper circle than the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, into which the head of the ftioulder bone is received. The manner in which the procefs (c) of the Aftragalus is joined with the Os Calcis, (2) fo as to allow of a ftiuffling motion, is alfo explained here. The great length of the firft bone, or Metatarfal Bone of the great toe (h) is alfo to be obferved, becaufe it is fome- times to be cut away ; and it fliould not be forgotten that it goes very deep into the foot. The fmall bone, commonly called Sefamoid Bone, from its refembling, or being thought to refemble, a grain of Sefamum (though it is much larger), is feen here at (m) lying under the ball of the great toe, where it is conne&ed with the tendons of the ftiort flexor mufcles of the great toe. There are commonly two under the ball of each great toe, and there are occafional Sefamoid bones under the other toes, and fometimes under the great joint of the thumb. The feveral Phalanges, as they are- called, or ranks of bones in the toes, need not a- gain be explained. The only important point remaining to be explained, is the double arch of the foot; for there are two arches. Firft (n) the great and general arch; the two points of which are the tip of the heel, and the ball of the great toe. Thefe points alone of all the foot touch the ground.—The elafticity of this arch, proceeding from its nu- merous bones and their joinings, gives a fpring and eafe in the ftep ; and the arch the Tarfus. — (i) Marks the firft rank or phalanx,— of the bones of the toes. isRiUUJi 'rV, . ..iA„.rKM , . \ / nBOOK FIRST, PLATE TENTH. 65 is fupported under the weight of the whole body, both by the particular ligaments belonging to the individual joints of the foot,—and more particularly by the Great Fafcia or ligament, (I would call it,) of the foie of the foot, which from one point (the heel) extends to the root of each toe individually. But there is alfo a fecond and particular arch, which the bones of the Tarfus form among themfelves. This arch is explained by fhowing a large central hole, which is ex- preffed in each of thefe drawings, and is marked (0).—In Fig. IV. there is only a darknefs lhowing where this central hole is.—In Fig. V. the hole is feen fair (by the Tarfus being turned round, and is marked (0). In Fig. VI. it is explained by a broken pencil, (0) thruft up through this central opening.BOOK FIRST, PLATE ELEVENTH, (2.) The PLATE XL This Plate explains the Text Bc/ok, fresn Page 166, to Page 17 7. Of the Scapula, Clavicle, and Arm Bone. FIGURES I. and II. IAXplain the Scapula, fhowing, Ift, its internal,—2clly, its external furface. The Scapula or Shoulder Blade, is of a triangular lhape. («) Marks its flat furface,, which is turned towards the ribs, hollow, to fuit the convexity of the ribs And the letter (a) is repeated all over the furface, to Ihow the little riflngs of this fur- face ; for this is the part upon which the Sub-fcapular Mufcle lies ; and thefe riflngs are the marks of its fibres. (b) Shows the Outer Surface of the Scapula, which is in its turn a little convex ;—is crofted by the Spine, or that high ridge (8) which divides it into two furfaces ;— the lower furface (cj holding the infra-fpinatus ;—the upper furface (*?) holding the fupra-fpinatus mufcle. The Lines and Process of the Scapula are these (1.) Is the upper Cofta or border of the Scapula, where (e) marks a notch, which is fometimes a complete hole, or when incomplete it is made out by a ligament. It gives paftage to the Scapular arteries and nerves.OF THE BONES. 68 (2.) Is the Lower Cofta or border, which is round, and at the place (f) gives origin to the Teres Major and Teres Minor mufcles. (3*) This long fide is called the Bafis of the Scapula, and has the great Trapezoid and Rhomboid Mufcles implanted into it from above and behind; while the Serratus Anticus is implanted into it from before and from below. (4.) Snows the Upper Angle which receives the Levator Scapulae Mufcle. (5.) The Lower Angle. (6.) The Glenoid or Articulating Cavity, which is particularly fmall and fuperficial, confidering how large the head of the fhoulder bone is. (j-) The Neck of the Scapula fo called ; it is the fmaller part which fupports the head, though, properly fpeaking, there is no neck;—and when the head of the Ihoulder bone is faid, in a luxation, to lie upon the neck of the Scapula, it lies upon the place marked (g). .(8.) The Spine of the Scapula, which divides the upper furface, and which, riling higher as it goes forwards, terminates at laft in the Acromion Procefs. (9.) Is the Acromion Procefs ; it is juft the end of the fpine, which turns its flat fide towards the head of the Ihoulder bone, and overhangs the fhoulder to defend the joint, and prevent luxations upwards. (10.) And there is ftill a farther fecurity ; for the Coracoid Procefs (10) Hands upon the inner fide of the joint, and defends it within. It is named Coracoid Procefs, from its being crooked like the beak of a crow. FIGURE III. JExplains the Clavicle or Collar Bone : a bone which is extremely fimple in its form, and has few or no parts;—and in which the letter (h) marks the middle, the roundeft part of the bone, that point which is moft prominent in the breaft; the part moft frequently broken, (f) Marks the end neareft the Thorax, and Ihows the69 BOOK FIRST, PLATE ELEVENTH. vhe circular articulating furface, by which it is joined to the Sternum ; and under this end a fmall moveable cartilage lies. (<£) Marks the outer end, or that which is turned towards the fhoulder blade : the Clavicle is flattened at this end, and touches the Acromion by one Tingle point only. FIGURE IV. The Os Humeri, Shoulder Bone, or Arm Bone. (1.) The head is large,—flat,—is a fmall fegment of a large circle,—feems quite dif- proportioned to its focket, (6. Fig. I. II.) (2.) Is the neck as it is called; though there is no proper neck; there being no length, nor narrower part betwixt the body and the head of the bone. (3.) The Greater Tuberofity. {4.) The LefTer Tuberofity;—the Greater and Leflfer Tuberofities being two knobs, for the infertion of thofe mufeles which come from the Scapula. (5.) Is the Groove betwixt thefe tuberofities, for the pafi'age of the long tendon of the Biceps Mufcle, which runs here as a rope does in its pulley. (a) Marks the roughnefs about one third down the arm bone, into which the tendon of the Deltoides is implanted. (b) Marks the place, where (a little below its middle) the Os Humeri turns flatter, be- caufe it is to terminate flat and broad, to favour the hinge-like joining of the bones of the fore arm ; and (6.) Shows one ridge on the nme? fide of the arm bone ; £7.) Shows another fimilar ridge or edge of the bone, on its inner fide—each ridge run- ning down towards its own Condyle. (8.) Is the external Condyle, fmaller and lefs projedting, becaufe it gives origin only t« the extenfors of the hand and fingers, a fet of mufeles which do not need much power nor the advantage of a long lever. (9.) Ist I OF THE EONES. 70 (g.) Is the inner Condyle, which is very long and very prominent, to give a greater power to thofe mufcles which bend the hand and fingers. The elbow' joint, being a very flritd and limited hinge, has a long articulating furface : and there are properly twTo furfaces, one for the Radius, and one for the Ulna. (10.) Is the longer articulating furface, to which the Ulna is fo joined as to perform none \ but hinge-like motions. (11) Is a neat fmall round knob, tipped with fmooth articular cartilage; and to this fmall knob, the face of the button-like end of the radius is applied ; and by the roundnefs of this knob the radius is enabled to perform not only the hinge-like motions to accompany the motion of the Radius; but alfo its own free circular motions, by which the hand is carried round. (12.) Is that very deep hole which the Coronoid Procefs of the ulna checks into. \y-C~ * i (l3-) There is a fimilar one marked (13,) which belongs to the demonftration of the fore part of the fhoulder-bone, and is to be feen by turning to the next plate. PLATEHooves <Pz.Xi.71 E001C FIRST, PLATE TWELFTH. PLATE XII. This Plate explains the ’Text Book, from Page 17 7, to Page 190. Explains the Radius and Ulna, Carpus and Fingers. FIGURE I. In ■the drawing of the Os Humeri, all the defcriptions and letters belonging to the laft plate belong equally to this. This drawing were fuperfluous, but for the impor- tant purpofe of ihowing the back part of the articulating furface, where we do not find that round furface marked (n) in the laft plate, and which is called the Lefler Head of the Humerus, but only the hinge-like furface for the articulation of the Ulna. And the chief objeft of this drawing, is to Ihow, that here alfo upon the back part of the bone, there is a deep hollow' betwixt the Condyles ; on the fore part of the bone the hollow is for receiving the Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna, which checks into that hollow w'hen the arm is bent forwards; but here upon the back part, this deep hol- low, marked (13,) receives the Olecranon, or great procefs of the Ulna, when the arm is extended. It is alfo to be obferved; that in this drawing the twilled form of the bone is well exprefted and truely, not caricatured; for the edge does in fa£l turn thus / round. 2 FIGURE7 2 or THE BONES. FIGURE II. The Ulna.. I HE Ulna is the longer of the two bones which lie in the fore arm. The whole bone is of a triangular Ihape, with 3 fharp edges ; the upper end is larger, and belongs to the elbow joint; the lower or Little Head belongs to the wrift. The bone has thefe points of description-. Jimtitruf (1.) Is the great cavity,, which receives the lower end of the wdirrs to form the elbow joint, and this is called the Greater Sigmoid cavity. (2.) The Olecranon, a large tubercle which marks the point of the elbow upon which we reft, and guards the Sigmoid Cavity behind. (3.) The Coronary Procefs which Hands up, and guards the Sigmoid Cavity before. (4.) The Hollow, where the fide of the Smaller button-like head of the Radius rolls, called the Lefier Sigmoid Cavity. (5.) The Prominent Roughnefs, into which the tendon of the Brachialis Internus is im- planted ; and it leads to the Iharp ridge. (6.) The Sharp Ridge, from which the Inter-ofleous Membrane goes off. (7.) The Lower Head of the Ulna, which is fmall, and button-like; for it is received into a hollow on the fide of the Radius, and it is upon this point, viz. the little head of the Ulna, that the radius turns in the continual motions of the hand. Is the Styloid Procefs of the Ulna, which is pointed, as the name implies ; from it ligaments go off to ftrengthen the joint cf the wrift. FIGURE III. JELXplains the relative pofition of the Radius and Ulna. The Ulna is marked with figures according with the above defcription; the Radius is alfo marked with its points of demonftration. 1. («. a. «.)73 BOOK FIRST, PLATE TWELFTH. i. i. 3- 6. '7* (a. n.) Repeated on the three fides of the Radius, explain the general triangular form of the bone, marking particularly its three edges. (3) Marks the upper head of the Radius, flat, round and button-like, with the fide rol- ling upon the Lefler Sygmoid Hollow of the Ulna. (c) The neck of the Radius or ftraiter part, which immediately fupports the head. (d) The Bump or Tubercle of the Radius, into which the tendon of the Biceps Mufcle is implanted. (y) The Lower Head of the Radius; the Bone is thus gradually enlarging towards its lower end. (f) The Scaphoid, or boat-like Cavity on the lower end of the Radius for receiving the two largefl: bones of the Carpus forming the wrifl joint. (jf) The Styloid Procefs of the Radius, which bounds the wrifl; joint towards the fide of the thumb : and here it is feen how the little head of the Ulna (7) is received into the hollow focket on the fide of the Radius. The two iharp edges of the Ra- dius and Ulna are oppofed to each other, Ihowing how the Inter-ofleous Membrane ftretches from the one bone to the other, filling up all the fpace marked (h.) And it is here feen that the Radius is fomewhat arched towards the Ulna, fo as to roll round it without touching it, or hurting or difordering the numerous mufcles, &c. which lie upon the Inter-ofleous Membrane. FIGURE IV. ^Explains the Bones of the Carpus or Wrist, as they are feen from the outfide, or back of the hand. The Bones of the Carpus are 8 in number, they are divided pretty regularly into two rows ;—and we rather choofe to count and demonftrate them according to their rank, than as individual and feparate bones : for as feparate bones there is nothing very particular in any one ; but by their combination and form, and as they relate to the 1 K wrifl74 OF THE BONES. wrift joint, ar to the fingers, it furely mull be important, I ihouldyather fay, neceftary, for the furgeou to remember therm FIRST ROW. t Forming the Wrist Joint. (i.) The Scaphoid Bone, where the figure (i.) marks the regular round furface, which forms a chief part of the ball and focket-joint of the wrift. And (n) marks the great hook-like projeftion of this bone, whence that ftrong ligament which braces down the tendons of the Carpus arifes. (2.) The Lunated Bone, where the figure is fo placed as to mark the large ball-like furface of this bone which joins with the Os Scaphoides to form the ball of the wrift. And the lunated part of the bone is concealed, when thus joined with the others. (3.) The Cunieform Bone, of which only the broad or fquare furface is feen on the back of the wrift, while the narrower part of the wedge is in the palm. (4.) The Pifiform Bone, fo named from its roundnefs, this bone is a little removed from the direction of the row to which it belongs. SECOND ROW.. Receiving the Metacarpal Bones.. (5O The Os Trapezium ; or firft bone of the upper row named Trapezium, from its fquare and angular form. It has the ball of the thumb planted upon, it and the figure points diredly to that focket which receives, the thumb, (6.)75 BOOK FIRST, PLATE TWELFTH. (6.) The Trapezoid.es, fo named from its refemblance to the laft. (7.) Os Magnum, for it is the greateft ; and it has a curious head which is in this view- concealed under the Os Lunare ; for the head of the Os Magnum is received into the femicircular hollow of the Os Lunare, forming a ball and focket joint with that bone*, (8.) The Os Unciforme, or hook-like bone 5 the hook of which is towards the palm, and therefore not feen in this view. N-B. In this drawing of the Carpus, Fig. IV. this group of bones is made to reft chiefly upon two of the corner bones, viz. the hook of the Os Scaphoides, and the Os Pifi- forme. FIGURE V. Xs'alfo drawn chiefly with the intention of explaining the carpus ; and here the fame numbers may ferve, for the polition of the Carpus is very little changed. Cl.) is the Scaphoid Bone ; (2.) The Lunar Bone, forming with the Scaphoid the ball for the wrift joint. (3.) The Os Cuneiforme. (4.) The Os Pififorme is out of fight. (5.) The Trapezium which fupports the thumb; (6.) (7.) (S.) The Trapezoides, Magnum, and Unciforme, fupporting all the others fingers ; and here the Os Magnum (7.) is feen a little fuller ; fo that the round head of it can almoft be feen jointed with the Os Lunare. The 1ft, id, and $d Phallanges or rows of bones belonging to the fie-* veral joints of the fingers, need not be explained ; and the round heads for the joints of thefe finger bones explain themfelves. FIGURE VI. PRESENTS the Carpus in a new dire&ibn; fhowing thofe bones which are lels perfectly feen in the other drawings;—and_it is neceffary to obferve, that the group of the K 3 Carpal 1OF THE EONES. 7 6 Carpal bones is now turned, fo as to ihow that face of them which receives the Metacarpal Bones and the group now refts chiefly upon the points of the two upper Corner Bones, viz. the Trapezoid and Unciform Bones ; as in the other view it relied upon the lower Corner Bones, viz. the Scaphoid and Pifiform Bones. So that here there is only the upper row fairly demonllrated, viz.— (5.) The Os Trapezium ;—(6.) the Os Trapezoides ;—(7.) the Os Magnum ;—(8.) the Os Un- ciforme. (£) Marks a fmall pointed projection of the Os Trapezium, whence the Carpal Ligament arifes.— (c) Marks the great Unciform or hook-like procefs of the Unciform Bone, which is another point whence the fame crofs ligament of the Carpus rifes.—(«) Marks the arch which the Carpal Bones make, and the Tendons, of the wrift lie in this arch, and are bound down by the crofs ligament crofling from, the one corner point, to the othersTl. XII 4^"V T H E S E C O or THE MUSCLES.- <;. -1: ■ ■ . r •C r - . .'{ -'. f > • ;j > ; , . rrT*~ IH £ _ . ' '• ■ ■ • ■ - i ' ' ' . f -i V ■. ; joi ; (i.od bsab srfj ni . • _ •. - up!i*r< -y-N arij '1© , . ■ .B O S E C OF THE M U S C L E S- PLATE L MUSCLES OF THE FACE. ‘This Plate explains the Text Book, from page 191, to page 213. r r v 1 HIS Plate explains the chief Mafcles of the Face ; and there are feen* 1 here feveral Mufcles alfo of the Neck, Throat, Shoulder, and Bread.— It was drawn from a fubjecl that had been hanged, and the neck being broken, the head lies flatter upon one fhoulder, than it fhould do even in the dead body; for the Atlas and Bentatus, the two firfl: Vertebrse of the Neck, were fairly broken loofe from each other.—The Mufcles- are more diftin&ly feen on the left fide ; on the right fide they are thrown into fhadow, and are but faintly indicated.—The mufcles of the outline are truer in point of Anatomy ; while, in the full engraving, the general-8o OP THE MUSCLES. general appearance, the thinnefs and delicacy, and the undefined con- nections of the mufcles, are well exprefled ; and it is to be particularly noticed, that the Levator Anguli Oris (7.) is not fo true in the engrav- ing, while it is, I believe, very true and correct in the outline. {1.) Is the Occipito Frontalis, which covers the Occiput and forehead, with its two flefhy bellies, and the crown or top of the head with its thin flat tendon. The Occi- pital Belly is not feen here. The thin Tendon fometimes miltaken for the Pericra- nium, is marked (a) ; the Frontal Belly is marked (Z>) ; or rather there are two Frontal Bellies marked (££). Each Frontal Belly fends a fmall flip of fibres, ora peak, down upon the back of the Nofe marked (c) *. The Frontalis is conneded chiefly with the Ikin, but little with the bone; is chiefly for furling up and wrink-’ ling the Ikin of the forehead. (2.) Is the Corrugator Supercilii, more conneded with the Orbicularis Oculi, than with the Occipito Frontalis, and lying under the Occipito Frontalis. (3.) Is the Orbicularis Oculi ; arifing by a fmall white Tendon (d), from the Nafal Procefs of the Jaw Bone. Its fibres go in regular circles round the eye, and they are continued circles which return to the white Tendon in the corner of the eye, whence they firft arife ; the whole mufcle is thin, flat, broad, very diftind, fliuts the eye-lids, comprefies the eye, fqueezes out the tears f. The * This Nafal Peak of the Occipito Frontalis is not the flip which is fixed into the Os Frontis; that lies deeper, while this Nafal Peak is fuperficial, runs down the back of the Nofe, expanding upon it, and forming with the mufcles below a fort of fafcia, or Tendinous expanfion, which covers the Nofe This Nafal dip is implanted rather into the Ikin of the Nofe, and wrinkles it; while the General Mufcle corrugates the Ikin of the forehead. t The whole of what we call the Orbicularis Oculi, is named by Walther, Corrugator Oculi; and he feems to divide it into an upper and lower portion, by the names of Mufculus Semicircularis Palpebrse Superiors, and Mufculus Semicircularis Palpebrse Inferioris,8r BOOK, SECOND, ELATE TIR.ST, "The CoRRUGATOR Supercilii (2.) arifes from the Os Frontis betwixt the Eye-brows, and lies under that Peak of the Frontalis which expands upon the back of the Nofe.—. This Corrugator may almoll be confidered as merely a flip of the Orbicularis Oculi (3.) ; for in faft the fibres of the Corrugator go round the orbit with the upper- .fibres of the Orbicularis Oculi, and mix with them, fo as to form the upper edge of the Orbicularis ; and thence the names of Corrugator and Orbicularis are fome- times interchanged*. £5.) f Is the Levator Labii Suterioris, and Ala: Nasi ; This mufcle arifes by a fmall double Tendon, from the Nafal Procefs of the Upper Jaw Bone, and has one little flip (y) going into the Ala Nafi for dilating it; and another (f) going into the upper lip, for drawing it upwards J. \ 6.) Levator Labii Superioris Proprius, arifes from the Jaw Bone at the very edge of the Orbit, and above the Infra Orbitary Hole §. It has two flips of fibres, one {g) coming from the bone, from under the Orbicularis Mufcle, and another flip, y-j) which is continued from the lower fibres of the Orbicularis Mufcle itfelf. So this is a Biceps Mufcle; it lies fuperficially; it draws the middle of the lip up- wards ; it is often named' as a Biceps or two headed Mufcle ||. L 7. Levator * Walther, in his description of his own and Sanflorin’s Plates, draws into the explanation of this Corrugator Mufcle, all the upper part of the Orbicularis Oculi; as if it were but a part of the Corrugator. f It will be obferved here, that the fuite of the numbers 1, 2, 3, See. is not regularly followed, fcecaufe it was impoffibk to explain abfolutely every mufcle in any fett of drawings, however full. J “ Maxime hunc in ufum habent illi, qui detra&ores con tern ptorcfque funt aliorum, et forte haec w verba in uno vel aTtero eundum mo turn excitabunt.-” $ This is the Mus-cuuus Pyramidalis of Walther. || Euftachius draws the mufcle with thefe two heads. Albinus deferibes the little head (h), a3 a diftinri part of the taufde, both in his explanation of Euftachius, and in his own plates. Cant ob~ ferret§2 OF THE MUSCLES. (7.) Levator Anguli Oris ; arifes above the dog tooth, and is thence named Caninus.— This mufcle arifes under the Infra Orbitary Hole, as the laft arofe from above it; this of courfe lies under the laft, and fo is lefs perfe&ly feen here. Its direction is different from that of the Levator Labii; as it runs more perpendicularly, or runs rather outwards than inwards. It is ftiort; two headed like the laft ; rifes properly from the Socket Procefs of the firft Grinder. It lifts the Angle of the mouth, whence its name; and it operates on both lips, whence it is named, Levator Communis. (8.) Zygomaticus Major ; arifes from the Zygomatic Procefs of the Cheek Bone ; goes inwards to the corner of the mouth ; is long, {lender, oblique in its dire&ion. It paftes over that hollow in the Cheek Bone, which is filled up with fat, and fo when the mufcle is differed, it falls into this loofe flaccid and bending form *. (9.) The Zygomaticus Minor, like it, but not always found. (10.) The Buccinator, is feen here to lie deeper ; it forms the flat part of the cheek; it arifes from the Coronoid Procefs of the Lower Jaw, and from the roots of the back Grinders. It goes forward with direft fibres, (as feen here) towards the corner of the mouth. (11.) The Triangularis, is near, fmall, triangular; its bafe arifes from the jaw, its point ends in the corner of the mouth.—It draws the corner of the mouth down, and is named Depreffor Anguli Oris, or the Depreffor Communis Labiornm. (12.) Is the Depressor Labii Inierioris Proprius. This mufcle arifes from the line of the Jaw, touches and croffes its fellow under the middle of the lower lip. They pull the lip downwards. (13.) The Orbicularis Oris, is thick, broad, and fiefhy ; forms the flefhy part of the lip; ferves this feparate part proceeding from the fibres of the Orbicularis, fo particularly as to reckon it almoft a diffcinft mufcle, a depreffor of the lower Eye-lid; faying, “ Ex confpeftu ilium habere decet. “ pro depreffore Mufculo Palpebrae Inferioris.” Cant 'd Impetus. * This Zygomaticus Major, is fometimes fplit into two infertions at the angle of the mouthsBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIRST. 83 lip ; is in the red part of the lip, but is much broader than the red part. Its fibres are grofs and ftrong, they go in a circular direftion fairly round both lips, they are not interrupted at the angles of the mouth ; they fend up a fmall flip, which palling in the furrow of the lip, and mounting upon the Septum of the Nofe, is named Nafalis, and is marked (2). (15.) The Constrictor Nasi, is here diftinftly marked running over the point of the Nofe *. (30.) Is the Temporal Muscle ; which is feen here, lying under its fafcia. The fafcia, or Tendinous expanfion of the Temple being here entire, and nothing cut away but the Membraneous Mufcles of the ear, the Anterior and the Superior Auris. (31.) Is the Masseter, -yvliich j3 a fliort, thick, and flefhy mufcle ; and to lay it en- tirely open, the Parotid Gland which is marked (£), is differed up from the cheek, fo that the head of the Maffeter is feen arifing from the Cheek Bone; and its lower end is feen implanted into the Jaw f. (?«_) Marks the Fascial Artery, or Labial Artery, as it is called, the Artery of the face, eroding over the angle of the Jaw. Thus we fee in the dead body, thofe mufcles which give form and charafler to the hu- man countenance, lying all dead and flaccid. The mouth open, the lips loofe and fhrivelled ; the angles of the mouth dropping down, the cheek funk; and the eye alfo clofed, and funk down within its orbit.—All the countenance is deformed, and the traits of individual chara&er or beauty, quite gone;'—but ftill enough re- mains to explain to us what thofe mufcles are, upon which chiefly the interefting variety of expreflion and form depends. The Occipito Frontalis wrinkles the L 2 forehead. * This is the Tranfverfus Nafi of Walther. The action of this mufcle is very diftindtly feen, in the agony of an Afthmatic fit; it is feen alfo in violent diftortion, produced by rage, or defpair. Cant compares it to that mufcle in the dog, by which he curls the Nofe, and fhows the teeth in fcarling. + This i$ fometimes called, the Musculus Mansor.84 OF THE MUSCLES. forehead : the Corrugator Supercilii knits the. brows: the Levatores Labioruut lift up the lip, fpread wide the noftrils, and open the mouth ; the Depreffores Labiorum deprefs the lip j the Triangular Mufeles draw down the corners of the mouthy the Zygomatic Mufcle diftorts the cheek, and the Orbicularis Oris antago- nifes all thefe, and clofes the mouth.—Thefe mufeles, while they are performing more important offices, alfo exprefs the paffions, and mark the countenance with traits never to be effaced, the true ftudy of thofe who would be Phyfiognomifts; who- talk but idly, when they fpeak of expreffion in thofe immoveable features, which are formed rather by the Contour of a bone. “ The fagacious forehead or (economical “ nofe,” are the rhapfodies of an Enthufiaft, not the ferious obfervations of a fedate man, ftudious of that fubjeft, which is interefting above all others. The Hi apes of the bones determine the general form of the face. One great mufcle, the Maffeter, gives the rounding of the cheek; the reft are all delicate and moveable mufeles ; and the great characters of die face, center round the mouth and noftrils where thefe mufeles converge- The lean and delicate face, gains in expreffion where the cheek is hollow, the angle of the mouth moveable, the lines ftrong; but in diofe who are bloated, the cheek is fuller, the lines obliterated, the delicate turnings of thought and feeling are loft ; all but the more violent drains of paffion are hur- ried in the mafs. The great lines of character, are the line of the Zygomatic Muf- cle, coming from above, and of the Triangular Mufcle coming from the chin ; and die moving point towards which they all aft, is the corner of the mouth. In chear- ful emotions the features rife all towards the eye, which becomes full and turgid., In the depreffing paffions the features fink, the eye is languid,, and the whole coun- tenance ge^ts a thoughtful ferious call. But ftill it is the corner of the mouth, that is the central point of all thefe changes. The corners of the mouth are continually fupportsd by the aftion of the Levator, ,and of the Zygomatic Mufeles ; they are raifed high in fmiling, fo as to form a dimple there. They are raifed higher in laughter, fo as to fwell the cheek, wrinkle the 3 eyeBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIRST. 85 eye-lids, and comprefs the eye, till tears begin to How. And the corner of the mouth, which is thus raifed in laughter, is diftorted in pride, malice, hatred ; is dilated and drawn backwards in rage ; drops lower in grief ^ and in palfy falls quite down. Thefe movements round the angle of the mouth, are the chief indications in the face itfelf, while all other indications of paffion, proceed rather from the general fyftem, A healthy body, and chearful mind, have the face full, the eye humid, the limbs braced, the whole body free, and light moving. In languid health, or under afflic- tion and care, the face is pale, the eye cold, the whole body languid and relaxed and fo it is in paffion, for the medical arrangement of the paffions is nearly correct. There are two great clafles of paffions, the exciting and the depreffing paffions ; in the exciting paffions, as joy or anger, the heart beats high ; the face is turgid ; the eye prominent and fparkling ; the mufcles are tenfe ; the limbs braced ; the whole body is in a moveable, a&ive, and highly excited Hate. But when the heart beats languid in grief, or palpitates with fear, the face becomes pale, the features fink, the limbs tremble, the whole frame is unbraced, cold, and unapt for motion; and from thefe general conditions of the fyftem refult all thofe other marks of paffion, which accompany the changes of the face ; for in grief, fear, defpair, the blood ebbs, and the face is pale, and the features fink ; while in anger the face is red, the eye brows corrugated, and the eye turgid and {trained ; but in rage, the whole mufcular frame is {trained toward the molt violent adtion, the breath is retained, while the pulfe beats high ; and fo the face becomes turgid, the eye is fiery and red, there is a grinding of the teeth, the angles of the mouth are {trained backwards, the noftrils are raifed and dilated, the Buccinator, Zygomatic, Mafieter, and Temporal Mufcles are in violent action, which gives an Angular and Linear hardnefs to all the features and faliva and foam proceed from the univerfal preffiire upon all the glands. MUSCLES - *86 OF THE MUSCLES. MUSCLES OF THE EYE. Figures XII. and XIII. of Plate II. Explain the Mufcles of the Eye. The origin of the Mufcles at the bottom of the Orbit, being once underllood, all their mechanifm will be very plain and eafy, for this fingle point has been the chief diffi- culty from the firft. Galen counted the Levator Palpebrae, as one of the proper mufcles of the eye; Vefalius underllood better than Galen the origin of the Re£li Mufculus from the bottom of the Orbit, but like Galen he has drawn the eye from Brutes, and has defcribed its mufcles, and drawn them in fo confufed a way, that it is not eafy to comprehend that mufcle of his, “ which adheres in all its “ courfe to the Optic Nerve. (Septimus Oculi Mufculus, nulla ex parte a viforio “ nervo liberatus.”) But even after this difcovery of the true origin of thefe mufcles, one author of very high reputation, Mr Lieutaud, denied the origin of thefe mufcles around the root of the Optic Nerve; believing [that the fixed point, or center of all thefe mufcles, was a point a little to the outer fide of that hole, by which the Optic Nerve enters the focket. But now this point, of their general origin from the bottom of the focket, is univerfally acknowledged; and the chief difpute is, whether thefe five mufcles, in arifing round the root of the Optic Nerve, begin from the periofteum of the focket ; or from the bone itfelf, or from the outer coat (the Dura Mater) of the Optic Nerve ; or whether they do not arife by a particular ring, which furroutids the root of the Optic Nerve; for Valfava believed that thefe mufcles began by a fort of ring, which as if furrounded the root of the Optic Nerve, he chofe to call Circulus Moderato- rius Nervi Optici. But in this difpute, as ufually happens, both parties are right, and both are in fome degree wrong ; for two of the five mufcles arife more properly from tDe cuter coat of the Optic Nerve, while the three others arife plainly from theBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIRST. 87 the Dura Mater where it forms the periofteum of the Orbit ; the Dura Mater gra- dually a (Taming the nature of a common tendon, from which thole three mufcles arife. The place where this tendon begins, is the inner end of that Foramen Lacerum which belongs to the Sphoencid Bone, and which admits the fmaller nerves to enter for the mufcles of the eye; for when the Dura Mater has come out by this hole from the Cranium into the Orbit, it afiumes, juft where it covers that hole, a hard and tendinous nature, becomes white, aftumes the appearance of a tendon, and is in fadt, the common Tendon by which three of the mufcles arife ; and as this hole is below the Optic Nerve, and toward the outer fide of it, the mufcles which arife by this common tendon are chiefly thofe which pull the eye outwards or down- wards ; and fo this common tendon gives origin to the Abdudtor, Deprimens and Addudtor. But thofe mufcles again which cover the upper part of the Optic Nerve, arife clofe round the margin of the Optic hole ; they touch the nerve and a*dhere to it; by ad- hering to the nerve, they may be faid to arife from the nerve or from that Angle of the Dura Mater where it comes through the Optic hole, to go over the Optic Nerve. So the Levator and the Obliquus Superior arife from the Dura Mater, where it forms the (heath of the Optic Nerve ; while the Deprimens, Abdudtor, and Addudtor, arife by one common tendon from the Dura Mater where it covers the Foramen Lacerum, forming the periofteum of the orbit. This is all feen at (a), Figures XII. and XIII. where (a) (hows the fringed edge of the Dura Mater furrounding the root of the Optic Nerve ; (#) the origins of the Levator and Obliquus Superior, in the angle where the Dura Mater turns backwards. And (r) (liows the origin of the Abductor and Deprimens coming from the Periofteum of the Foramen Lacerum, a little to one fide of the great Nerve. The only other difficult point, and which is more important (till, fince it explains the relative fiz.e, and fhape, and courfe of thefe mufcles, is the true place of this centralOF THE MUSCLES. SB central point from which the mufcles rife, or in other words, the true place of the Optic hole by which the Optic N erve enters, and from the margins of which all thefe niufcles rife. This Will be eafily explained by the marginal plate, which fhows the holes within the focket; the pofition of the eye with regard to thofe holes, and fo explains the relative length of each of the mufcles. ill, The eye is placed in the focket, as I have reprefented by the circle (a), not direct- ly in the middle, but a little to one fide. The eye does not look out from the Orbit in the direftion of the Axis of the Orbit; for the axes of the twa orbits meet almoft in the bottom of the focket, eroding in the Celia Turcica, * but both the eyes look direclly forwards. The plane of the fore part of the Orbit being oblique, and falling off towards the temple, while the eye looks directly forwards; the axis of the Orbit, and of the eye can not coincide f. This is the reafon of the Pupil, being nearer to one angle and not in the center of the focket, for which we have the bell authority, that of meafuring the eye when we pleafe. But the authorities of books on this point are thefe ; Heifter makes the Pupils diftant three inches from each other. Camper makes the Pupils diftant two in- ches and a half. But the eye being compared not with the other eye, but with its own focket, it is found that the center of the Pupil is eight lines from the outer angle of the eye, and feven lines from its inner angle J. Thefe are my rules for placing the eye in its focket, in this plan. And the eye being thus regularly placed, we find by this drawing, (not geometrically true, but ftill fuflicient for proving and illuftrating fo plain a matter as this is,) that the Foramen Opticum and the larger end of the Foramen Lacerum are much above the center of the orbit, and towards the inner fide; whence it is plain that the Optic Nerve in going towards the ball of the eye, moves a little outwards and defeends. And it is alfo . very * Camper. f Winllow, Academie des Sciences. t Petit Acaaamie des Sciences.book; second, plate first, 89 very manifeft, that fince the mufcles, to get at their infertions muft go round the globe of the eye ; thofe which go round by the outer fide of the eye, or pafs under it, muft be longer, while their antagonifts which keep to the inner fide of the eye or go over the globe, muft be lhorter. And fo the Addu&or Mufcle which is on the fide next the nofe, is the only ftraight mufcle ; it is the lhorteft, while the Ab- du£tor is the longeft. The Abductor and the Deprimens Oculi, are the longer mufcles of the eye : The Addu&or and the Levator Oculi, are the lhorter mufcles. In this plan, the center of the focket («) is marked by the croffing of its two dia- meters. The center of the Pupil is marked at (&) nearer the inner angle of the eye, the Foramen Opticum is marked (V), and the inner end of the Foramen Laceruna is< marked (d'). M In#v THE MUSCLES. In Figure XII. thefe points are feen ; (a) the ring which the Dura Mater forms, where it comes from the brain into the Orbit, accompanying the Optic Nerve; (b) the ori- gin of the Obliquus Superior and Levator, from this part of the Dura Mater fur- rounding the Optic Hole, (c) The origins of the Abdu£lor and Deprimens, but the letter (V) points more particularly to the origin of the Abdu&or, which is here feen to be a Biceps, or two headed mufcle, having two Tendons, and the fmaller nerves which belong to the mufcles of the eye are feen at (d), palling betwixt thefe two ten- dinous origins of the Abdu&or. For it is to be remembered, that this Abdu&or along with two of the Recli, rifes from that part of the Dura Mater, which covers the Foramen Lacerum; and that the fmall nerves enter the focket by the Fora- men Lacerum. From this root round the Optic Nerve, the mufcles are feen going forwards. 1. The Obliquus Superior or Trochlearis (29) uppermolt, the longeft mufcle of the eye with its llender Tendon palling through the Cartilaginous Pulley (<r), which is left Hill in its place attached to the Superciliary Ridge of the Frontal Bone (/)• 2. The Obliqtjus Inferior, (30) is feen, the Ihortell mufcle ©f the eye, ariling from the lower part of the Orbit, and going backwards to antagonize the lalt. 3. The Rectus Superior (25) next to the Re&us Internus which it hides, is the Ihortell mufcle. 4. The Rectus Externus (28) or Abducens Oculi, is the longell of all the llraight mufcles of the eye. 5. The Rectus Inferior or Deprimens Oculi (26) islhorter than the Abducens, (28) but longer than the Reft us Superior (25), becaufe the Optic Nerve enters a little above the center of the Orbit. The Tendons of thefe Recli Mufcles are feen expand- ing flat and broad upon the forepart of the eye ; where by Ihining through that thin and Tranfparent Ikin, which covers the forepart of the eye, they form what is called the Albuginia, or "White <?oat of the eye. ThereBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIRST. f)£ There remains but one mufcle belonging to the eye, and that is, the Levator Palpe- BRjE SupeRIORIS (4) ; which is explained in Figure Xllf. where it is feen riling from the upper part of the Optic Hole at (a), along with the other mufcles; it lies over all the other mufcles,. and expands into a thin and membraneous flelh (£), < which runs imperceptibly into the fubltance of the upper eye-lid; and feems to end in (V) the Tarfus, or Cartilaginous hoop of the eye-lid. The XIV Figure of this plate, explains the mufcles of the outward ear, as they are expreffed by Cowper. Where (17) marks the Superior Auris or Atollens; and (19) the Posterior Auris or Retrahens, as they are explained in the book of the- mufcles, p. £4 M a PLATE/Musclcs (lJL. L* v \ * ' / •» \93 BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND. PLATE II. ‘This Plate cxplaini the ‘Text Book, from page 212, it page 23 X. This plate belongs chiefly to the Throat; explains the Cartilaginous and bony parts, of which the upper part of the throat and efpecially the flute part or Larynx is formed; fhows the Os Hyoides; the Thy- roid, Cricoid, and Arytenoid Cartilages; the Epiglottis; and the Mem- branes and Mufcles by which thefe Cartilages are connected, fo as to form a rigid tube confifting of parts moveable upon one another, and yet Fo firm upon the whole, as to be a protection to all the more delicate parts of the throat, and to be the center of all the motions of the Jaws, and Tongue, and Windpipe, and Gullet ; or of the Larynx and Pharynx, as they are called. THIS Plate explains firft all the individual parts one by one; and then joins them,, fhowing how the whole is compofed ; without which regular form of demo nitration, nothing could be clearly underftood of parts fo very intricate and difficult, and having fo long a catalogue of hard names connected with them. a FIRSTOF THE MUSCLESr 5H FIRST ROW. , \ > .... .. The firft row gives the parts Angle and entirely diflfeXed; and there is reprefented^ (i.) The Os Hyoides, which refembles in its general form the lower Jaw Bone of sfe child, or what is called the Thought Bone of a fowl ; (a) is its bafis, ([b) its horn, (c) the Cartilaginous joinings of the horns and body, , and two little Tubercles ftand perpendicularly up at the place of this joining,, which are called the Cornua Minora or lefler horns, or Appendices of the Os Hyoides. Thefe Cor- nua Minora are here reprefented in outline. The Os Hyoides is named alfo the bone of the Tongue, and its connexions are efpecially to be obferved, viz. that it lies in the root of the tongue ; forms in a manner the top piece of the Trachea,„ is tied by a membrane to the Thyroid Cartilage, has the Epiglottis (5.) or valve of the windpipe planted upon it. And that thefe connexions may be underftood, this bone is marked with this figure (1.) in all the other drawings. (2.) Is the Thyroid or Shield-like Cartilage ; which is indeed the Afield of the Throat, for it is broad, flat, and very deep, and a full inch in length ; it is thick, and often ofiified. And accordingly it is this broad Cartilage that defends the more delicate parts; its upper horns (dd), are tied to the Gs Hyoides by a long liga- ment ; its lower ones («) clofely embrace the Cricoid Cartilage. In this drawing, the Cartilage is fet fo as to reft upon its two lower Cornua, and,to fupport and bal- lance it a common pin marked (*), was thruft into its (3.) Is the Cricoid Cartilage; v.'hich is not, like the Thyroid, a femicircle merely, i. e. wanting at the back part, but is an entire ring which forms,, as it were,, the uppermoft and firmeft ring of the Trachea, but which ftill belongs properly to the Larynx. It is {hallow before, and very deep in the back part of its circle, plainly for the purpofe of rafting the Arytenoid Cartilages, (thofe fmall Cartilages which-BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND. 95 ’which form the Rima Glottidis or opening of the windpipe) ; and bj this deepnefs at its back part, the Cricoid Cartilage raifes the opening of the Glottis fo high, (as is feen figures vii. and viii.) that it is behind the very center of the Thyroid Car- tilage where it is well defended and fafe. The Articulating Surfaces upon which $he Arytenoid Cartilages fit down, are marked (f). (4.) The Arytenoid Cartilages, are the fmall and moveable ones, which are of a Triangular form; they are fet down upon the upper border of the Cricoid Cartilage, by their bafe (g) with a very moveable articulation ; and (§•) points to the focket furface of the Arytenoid Cartilage by which the articulation is formed. For here the two uppermoft drawings of the Cartilage are fet oppofite to each other, almoll in their natural pofitions, and refting upon their bafis, while the loweft drawing of the three, is turned up fo as to Ihow its joint. The two fharp points of the Ary- tenoid Cartilages Hand perpendicularly upwards, and give the fliape and opening of the Glottis. The tips of the two Arytenoid Cartilages are feen over the Thyroid Cartilage in figure vii . and the Cartilages are feen full in figure viii, fettled in their place, and forming the Rima Glottidis or chink of the windpipe, which is narrower or wider as they are moved by their mufcles. (5.) Shows the Epiglottis, which may be compared to an Artichoke leaf. It flaps down like a fmall tongue or valve, and, by clapping neatly down upon the Rima Glottidis, makes the food and drink glide clear over the Glottis, and into the Gullet or Pharynx. The Epiglottis is reprefented in this drawing, fo as to ex- plain its connexion with the Os Hyoides, and of Courfe with the root of the tongue. SECOND ROW. The connexions are explained in the figures of the fecond row ; each part preferves its peculiar marks (1.2.3.) and it is feen in figure vi. in what fuccefiion thefb parts Hand. * (i.) The0 0? THE MUSCLES^ FIGURE VI. (i.) The Os Plyoides, connected by its long horns with the upper horns of the Thyrdki Cartilage.' It is a ligament (Z>) of a full inch in length that connects them. And the common membrane of the Trachea is continued from the Os Hyoides, to the Thyroid Cartilage, fo that the gap betwixt them is filled up by a ftrong, but thin membrane (7). (2.) The Thyroid Cartilage is next, it Hands forwards in the throat to defend the other parts ; is diftinCtly felt without; is. the molt prominent part of the throat; and named Pomum Adami. £3.) Is the Cricoid Cartilage, which in this profile of the throat, is feen to be very Ihallow before, as it is deep behind; The Arytenoid Cartilages, (4.) are neceffarily hidden in this view; and the Epi- glottis (5.) is cut away, to m..i^^his drawing more fimple and eafy. The Thyroid Gland is marked (6.) the chief part of it is feen on the nearer fide of the Trachea, and a part alfo of the right lobe is feen coming round from the other fide behind the Trachea, and almoft furrounding it. (7.) Marks the Trachea, and the figure is here made to point to the uppermolt ring, that the true place of the Thyroid Gland might be underftood, for it lies not upon the Thyroid Cartilage (2.) nor upon the Cricoid Cartilage (3.) as might be fuppofed, but upon the fecond ting of the Trachea, leaving the firft one free.. FIGURE VII. and VIII. re chiefly ufeful in explaining the places of the two Arytenoid Cartilages, and the way in which they form the opening of the Glottis. Figure VII. The Os Hyoides is cut away. The Thyroid Cartilage (2.) is feen in its.BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND, 97 its place, defending and concealing the Arytenoid Cartilages ; or at lead the tips only of the Arytenoid Cartilages are feen (4.) peeping over the border of the Thy- roid Cartilage. (3.) The fore-part of the ring-like or Cricoid Cartilage, is feen connedled with the upper ring of the Trachea ; but leaving an interftice (i) of a triangular form, at which point, (and not betwixt the rings of the Trachea), Mr Vique D. Azir propofes Co perform the operation of Brondrotomy. Figure VIII. Shows the back view of the fame dlffedtion. The Os Hyoides is fnown in outline, and in its true polition with its fmall ligament which connects it with the upper horns of the Thyroid Cartilage ; and here it is explained how (1. 1.) the two horns of the Os Hyoideg project, far beyond the Larynx. They belong more properly tG the Pharynx, “ and liold t}>€' Pharynx extended, as we “ hold a bag open with the finger and thumb. (2.2.) Show how deep the Thyroid Cartilage is ; how fairly it inclofes the Cricoid Cartilage, and conceals and defends the Arytenoid Cartilages, and the opening which they make ; and here it is feen,, that the edges of the Thyroid Cartilages belong alfo to the pharynx, for the borders of the Thyroid Cartilage do, in faft, form part of the fides of the Pharynx ; they afiift the horns of the Os Hyoides, in keeping the bag of the Pharynx extended. And the Conftrkilor Pharingls, (44. 45. 46.) the great Circular Mufcie which embraces the Pharynx, arifes chiefly from the tips of the horns of the Os Hyoides, and from this projecting edge of the Thyroid Cartilage. (3.) .Is feen the great deepnefs of the Cricoid Cartilage behind, and it is feen by (4), how the Glottis (which is juft the opening betwixt the two Arytenoid Cartilages), is railed by this deepnefs of the Cricoid Cartilage, in its back parts. The third row of figures exhibits the more important of thofe delicate mufcles by which the Cartilages are moved upon each other; but before thefe mufcles are explained, it is neceffary to obferve the place and effect of the Epiglottis, which is well feen in figure x. and by the aftiftar.ce of this figure joined with the de- N * monftration93 OF THE MUSCLES. monftration of figure vi. the fucceffion of parts is very fairly explained.—1. The Os Hyoides.-—2. The Thyroid Cartilage.—3. The Cricoid Cartilage follow each other in figure vi—4. The Arytenoid Cartilages, figure vii. and viii.—5. The Epiglottis, figure ix.—6. The Thyroid Gland, figure vi.—7. The rings of the Trachea, betwixt which rings, and below the Thyroid Gland, the operation of Bronchotomy is to be performed. This x. figure then compleats thofe connections of the parts of the throat; and the effects of accidental wounds, or of the attempts of Suicides, or of our operation of Bronchotomy will be eafily underftood. Suicides in their attempts very com- monly cut fo high in the throat, immediately under the jaw, that they feldom wound the Carotid Artery; nor do they even hurt the more material parts of the throat; for they flrike fo high, (commonly above the Thyroid Cartilage), that they do not touch the Trachea, nor injure the Glottis. They only cut off the Os Hyoides from the Larynx; they do not fo properly cut the throat as the tongue ; and when the food paffes by the wound, it does not come from a cut of the CEfophagus acrofs the Trachea, but comes merely from the root of the tongue. Thefe Lateral views explain alfo how idle it is to talk of performing Bronchotomy above the Thyroid Cartilage, fince the Thyroid Cartilage is not in the Trachea, and fince the obftruftion is below that point, being commonly in the Thyroid Gland, whcih is here marked (6).— Mr Vique D’ Azir is not more correct in his Anatomy, where he advifes Bronchotomy to be performed betwixt the Thyroid and Cricoid Carti- lages, in the Triangular Membranous fpace marked (£) : for, that is exactly by the fide of the Sacculus Laryngis, or Sac of the Larynx, a mucous fecreting bag, which lies here on the infide of the Trachea ; and the Trocar would lie almoft in the opening of the Glottis, or fo near it, that the irritation could not be endured. The Larynx cannot bear the operation of Bronchotomy, becaufe it is moveable, furnifhed with many mufcles that are eafily excited ; and the lead irritation near the Glottis, throws them into violent contractions. But the Trachea itfelf, can eafily bear to be transfixedBOOK SEtOND, PLATE SECOND. 99 transfixed with the Trocar, which neither excites contractions, nor gives pain : Be- fides the obltruftion which requires Bronchotomy, is feldom in the tongue or mouth ; more commonly in the Larynx ; not unfrequently in the Thyroid Gland. So that almoft all the occafions that can be fuppofed, are fuch as keep us down to the very lowed point of the Trachea, viz. That neared the ched. THIRD ROW. This row is for demondrating the chief mufcles of the Larynx, and Pharynx ; and of courfe, the motions of thefe feveral parts upon each other. And it explains, fird, the mufcles which lie immediately upon the Cartilages of the Larynx, and which move the parts of the throat upon each other ; and thefe lead to a know- ledge of thofe longer mufcles, which come from the jaws, or chin, or dernum, or flioulder ; and by which the whole throat is moved. Thefe are represented care- fully in the middle figure of this third row, and alfo in the next plate. . Figure IX. Explains chiefly the Hyo-ihyroidaei, and Crico-thyroidsei Mufcles ; for fird. The Crico-thyroidjei (42), arife by a fmall pointed origin, (/) from the fore part of the Cricoid Cartilage ; go upwards and obliquely outwards about an inch in length ; are implanted by a broad infertion (ot), into the lower border of the Thyroid Cartilage, and where they end, the next mufcle begins. For the Eyo-tkyroibieus (41), is a long, flat, and fielhy mufcle, about an inch and a half, or two inches in length ; lying fiat upon the fmooth face of the Thyroid Cartilage ; riling from the lower border of the Thyroid Cartilage below, and implanted broad and flefhy above, into the bads of the Os Hyoides a little to one fide, and to a part of the.horn. Sometimes this mufcle is divided into two flips, as it is drawn by Cowper, but more commonly it is fingle, as reprefented here, and the upper end of the Sterno-hyoideus (34), is feen here marked with its proper number. N 2. The*OF TH£ MUSCLES, ICO The Sterno-Li^^^Ts^ implanted into the Thyroid Cartilage, at the point where the Crico-thyroideus (42) ends, and the Hyo-thyroideus (41) begins; fo that the Crico-thyroidseus is in part covered by the Sterno-thyroideus ; and the Hyo-thyroi- deus again looks like a continuation of the fame mufcle. In Figure X. are feen chiefly the fmall mufcles by which the Cartilages of the Larynx are moved upon each other, modulating the voice. And the chief of thefe are, firft, the Crico-Arytenoideus Posticus, and fecondly the Arytenoide- us Transve-rsus. The Crico-arytenoideus Pofticus (45), “ is a fmall pyramidal Mufcle, which rifes “ broader from the back part of the Cricoid Cartilage, where the ring is broad “ and deep ; and going diredlly upwards, is implanted with a narrow point into the “ back of the Arytenoid Cartilage. This pair of mufcles pulls the Arytenoid “ Cartilages” backwards and outward, fo that they at once lengthen and widen the flit; enlarging the opening of the Glottis. Under this lies the Crico-aryte- noideus Lateralis, the fmalleft of thefe mufcles, which arifes from the rim of the Cricoid, and is inferted into the root of the Arytenoid Cartilage, and plainly fepa- rates the Arytenoid Cartilages, and widens the'Glottis. The Arytenoideus Transversus, (43) is feen here. It is feen crofting betwixt the two Arytenoid Cartilages, going from the root of the une, to the root of the other ; its natural office being to contract, or occafionally to clofe the Glottis. The Arytenoideus Obliquus, is a very delicate mufcle which lies under this, in the L.afcrcLlii fame way that thevArytenoideus QUiqmas lies under the Arytenoideus Pofticus *. The XI. Figure explains the Conftriclores Pharyngis, and the Styloid Mufcles ; for (11) reprefents the Velum Pendulum Palati, cut off from the roof of the mouth, and * The young fcudent fhould carry the throat to his room, waft it in a handhafon, fteep and , difledt there—A piece of Anatomy, which with thefe drawings he will eafily manage, which is hardly uncleanly, and cannot but be very important. It is indeed negledted only from being thought impradticable.BOOK SECOND, PLATE SECOND. IOI and hung out by firings; (o) is the Uvula or Pap, in the centre of it; (p) is the Anterior Arch of the Palate ; (q) is the Poflerior Arch ; (r) is the Tonfil lurking betwixt the arches at the fide of the root of the tongue ; (y) is the tongue; (i.) is the Os Hyoides ; (2.) is the Thyroid Cartilage ; (3.) the Cricoid Cartilage ; (6) the Thyroid Gland; (t) the Trachea ; (u) a piece of wood thrufl up through the CEfophagus, and appearing again in the throat at the back part of the tongue ; and the great conflri&or mufcle, is feen going in waves round this piece of wood ; or in other words, courfing round the upper part of the (Efophagus, i. e. the Pha- rynx ; and (v) is the laid point of this demonflration, and the mofl important, for it is the Styloid Procefs, whence (39.) (53-) and (53.) the three Styloid Mufcles arife *. The mufcles then which are to he feen in this drawing of the throat are, 1. The fet of the three Styloid Mufcles; 2. the Conflriclor Pharyngis ; and 3. the Vaginalis Gulte. The Styloid Mufcles are, the Stylo-glossus (58.) arifing from the forepart of the Styloid Mufcle, and going forwards into the fubflance of the tongue, firetching forwards into its point for drawing it back into the mouth. The Stylo-hyoideus (39), which begins rather from the backpart of the Styloid Procefs, and goes here into the fide of the Os Hyoides, being flender at its be- ginning, and broad towards its infertion, as all the Styloid Mufcles are. The Stylo-pharingeus (53.) lies behind or under the Stylo-hyoideus ; for it lies clofe upon the Gullet or Pharynx, expands upon that part of the bag where it is held extended upon the horns of the Os Hyoides ; fo that the Stylo-pharyngeus, when it expands upon the Pharynx, touches the horn of the Os Hyoides, which is marked (#), and as the middle conflriflor of the Pharynx arifes efpecially from that * The Stylo-gloffus I had defcribed in my book of the mufcles; but after claffing it in the general arrangement, I had forgotten it in the defcription of individual mufcles.OF THE MUSCLES. 102 * that point of the Os Hyoides, the lower fibres of the Stylo-pharyngeus ran along- fide of the upper fibres of the middle conflridor, fo that they almoft mix. Thefe three Styloid Mufcles perform the fi-rft movement in the ad of fwallowing, for they all coincide in lifting up the throat, preffing back the root of the tongue againft the palate, (to firaiten the Arches of the Fauces ;) and confining the morfel. By comp-refiing the morfel, they pufh it down, and fo begin that adion, which is compleated by that ftrong Mufcle of the Pharynx, which is next feen. For the Constrictor Pharyngis, (55.) is a very large and flelhy mufcle, which covers ♦five inches (in length) of the CEfophagus, and pufhes down the morfel, which is already prefled by the contradions about the top of the Pharynx, and chiefly by the adion of the Styloid Mufcles. The Conflridor is fairly enough divided into three mufcles, (54. 55. and 56.) of which the upper one, which cannot be feen here,; rifes about the back of the jaws, and from the bails of the fkull, and from the root of the tongue. The Middle Constrictor, marked (55.) rifes from tips of the horns of the Os Hyoides alone, and goes in a diverging form upwards, till it almoft touches the Ikull, and downwards pretty low upon the Gullet; The Lower Constrictor (56.) arifes from the borders or wings of the Thyroid'. Cartilage, and from the ring of the Cricoid Cartilage. This is the thickeft and flefhieft of all the Conftridors ; it is very large, and goes obliquely upwards, covering the lower part of the middle Conflridor, and a fmall fpace is left, a kind of angle betwixt the two Conftridors, which is thin and membranous,, and there the tips of the horns belonging to the Thyroid. Cartilage, are faintly indicated, as fhining through the thin membrane.. The (Esophagus is frill farther covered with a fheath of mufcular fibres, which run in a perpendicular diredion longitudinally along it, till they expand at laft upon the flomach Med. Tnis fheath of mufcular fibres is called the Vaginalis Gulje, and is marked (57.) PLATEsclcs103 BOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRD, PLATE HI. 77lit Plate explains the *Text Book ^ Jrom page 217, to page 2 20. TimS Plate explains the connection of the mufcles of the throat; it explains chiefly the greater mufcles coming upwards from the brealt and Ihoulcler; or downwards from the Styloid Procefs, pulling the throat upwards towards the jaws, or downwards towards the Sternum ; and thefe mufcles, though they belong chiefly to the throat, do occalion- Jy move the jaws. In Figure I. which reprefents the head of an old man, the fkin of the neck is diffec^ ted off, and cut away, nearly in the line of the Jaw Bone; fo as to fnow, (a) the Jaw Bone ; (b) the Parotid Gland, lying behind the angle of the jaw ; (c) the Sub- maxillary Gla d, lying u ,der the corner of the jaw ; (d) the Great Carotid Artery, which carries blood to the head ; (e) the Great Jugular Vein, by which that blood is returned; , g) is the Thyroid Gla..d, which confifts of two lobes, one lying upon the right fide of the Trad ea, the other upon the left fide, the two lobes are joined by a narrow flip of the Glandular fubftance which lies upon the fore-part of the Trachea, and is ca’led t e Isthmus, i. e. neck betwixt the two lobes, joining together the two lobes of the Gla id. The Gland is large, where the bulk of it can lie at either fide of the Trachea; but its Ilthmus marked (g) is very thin, and almoll membranous^-OF THE MUSCLES. 104 membranous, where it lies upon the fore-part of the Trachea. We find the Gland fmaller in men, larger in women ; of great variety in refpe£l of fize ; very general- ly fo large, as to be diftinguiihed by the fingers on the outfide of the throat; very often enlarged, and often defcending deep behind the Trachea, fo that the two op- pofite lobes almoft meeting behind, furround that Tube, and explain to us how ter- rible and how incurable (by any operation at leaf!), thaf fuffocation mull be, which proceeds from a fwelling of this Gland. This form of the Gland almoft furround- ing the Trachea, the two oppofite lobes nearly meeting behind, is better explained in the Trachea, drawn at Figure vi. Plate ii. The parts of the Trachea, with which the mufcles are more immediately conne&ed; are, (h.) The Os Hyoides, which lies in the root of the tongue. (2.) The Thyroid Cartilage, where it proje&s to form the Pomum Adami. (3.) The Cricoid Cartilage, which is above the Thyroid Gland. Therefore the Thyroid Gland is hardly entitled to the name of Thyroid, fince, in place of refting upon the Thyroid Cartilage, it lies quite below both the Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages, upon the firft, or rather upon the fecond ring of the Trachea. The Muscles are these, (437.) is the Sterno Mastoideus, the great mufcle of the neck; thrown back to expofe thofe fmaller mufcles which belong properly to the throat; and there is feen, (34.) The Sterno-Hyoideus, coming up from the Sternum, going upwards to the Os Hyoides, long, flat, ribband-like, and bending where it paffes over the Thyroid Gland. (35.) The Sterno-Thyroideus, coming alfo upwards from the Sternum ; ftretching to- wards the Thyroid Cartilage; lying under the laft named mufcle; like it flat and ribband-like; covering alfo the Thyroid Gland, and bulging a little where it paffes over the chief bulk of the Gland. (S^O The Omo-Hyoideus, coming upwards from the ihoulder. It is a digaftric or two-belliedBOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRD. 1 °5 two-bellied mufcle. The belly (36.) is fixed into the Os Hyoides. The middle ten- don (Z») is feen under the Maftoid mufcle ; and the lower flethy belly lies too deep to be feen, for it rifes from the Scapula near the Coracoid Procefs. Thefe are the chief mufcles which pull the throat downwards. The mufcles which pull the throat upwards are the Mylo-Hyoideus, the Biventir, and the Stylo-Hyoideus mufcles. (37.) The Mylo-PIyoideus arifes from the whole length of the jaw Bone, from the chin to the angle; and it arifes not from the lower border of the jaw; but ra- ther from the inner furface of the jaw-bone, almoft as high as the fockets for the teeth. It is thick and flelhy; but Hill it is flat and broad ; and goes downwards in a radiated or fan-like form, to be implanted into the bails of the Os Hyoides. Within this mufcle lies hidden the Gemo-Hyoideus ; without, lies the fore belly of the Digaftric Mufcle ; the Sub-maxillary Gland (c) is an external Gland, and lies under the corner of the jaw without, (z. e.') over the Mylo-hyoideus ; the Sub- lingual Gland is an internal Gland which lies under the tongue beneath this mufcle. The Mylo-hyoidei mufcles of oppoiite fides are united to each other by a rapha or tendinous feam or line, which is feen at (z), and which goes down from the center of the chili to the center of the Os Hyoides. (40.) The Eiventeu Maxilue Inferioris belongs after all more properly to the throat than to the jaw ; it is called Biventer from its two bellies, which are indeed very dif- tinft and beautiful; one belly' (i) arifes from the root of the Maftoid Procefs, and fo is feen here coming out from under the Parotid Gland; the fore-belly (7) is feen ariflng from under the chin ; the middle tendon has the number of the mufcle ("40.) put upon it at that point where it paffes the flde of the Os Hyoides, and there it is attached to the Os Hyoides, not merely by' running through a fort of Cartilaginous loop on the fide of that bone, but alfo by running through a loop made by the flelh of the Stylo-Hyoideus mufcle, which forks at its infertion. (39.) Is the Stylo-Hyoideus coming .from under the Parotid Gland, and implanted in- toOF THE MUSCLES. to the fide of the Os Hyoides, and fo binding down the middle tendon of the digaf- tric mufcle. In this drawing then, are feen the chief mufcles which affeft the general pofition of the throat, viz. 2. The Sterno-Hyoideus (34.), Sterno-Thyroideus (35*)» an<^ t^ie Omo-Hyoideus, (36.) pulling the throat downwards. 2. The Mylo-Hyoideus (37.), the Stylo-Hyoideus (39.), and the Digaftricus (40.), pulling the throat upwards. One fmall mufcle remains to be explained ; it is the Crico-thyroideus (42.), which a- rifes from (3.) the Cricoid Cartilage to be inferted into (2.) the Thyroid Cartilage. FIGURE II. Is the head of a woman, the neck long, the (lender mufcles of the throat much difle&ed and thrown out, very loofe and flaccid; and the Thyroid Gland was in this fubjedl particularly large, hung very low down, and made a confiderable bending in the two long mufcles which run over it. This drawing is a freer diffeclion of thefe mufcles, where all the Anatomy of the throat is feen ; for the Parotid Gland, the Carotid Artery, the Jugular vein, the eighth pair of nerves, and the chief mufcles both of the throat, and of the tongue, are here. The Jaw Bone is here, as in the former figure, marked (a) ; the Parotid Gland ([b) ; the Carotid Artery (d~) ; the Jugular vein (<?) ; and the Thyroid Gland, which appears only at two points, and almoft covered by the mufcles, is marked (g). But the mod important parts in the Anatomy of the neck, are the Carotid Artery (d) ; the Jugular vein (e) ; and the Par Vagum, or eighth pair of nerves (8 ) This eighth pair is a long nerve, which goes Prom the head down to the fcomach to end there. It is marked (8.) ; it is feen here, lying upon the great Jugular vein, which kBOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRD. I07 is turgid with blood, and bulging out in the form of a dilated inteftine : the eighth pair of nerves goes down along with the Carotid Artery and Jugular vein, they being all inclofed in one common Iheath of Cellular Subftance, which is here dif- fered away, to fhow thefe parts clean. The Os Hyoides is marked (1.) ; the Thyroid Cartilage is marked (2.) ; the Cricoid Cartilage is hidden by the mufcles. In this drawing, the Sterno-maftoideus (137.) is very fully difiedted, is made flaccid, and is laid to one fide, fo as to Ihow the mufcles of the throat freely ; which for the fake of a clear demonftration, I fhall divide into three fets. 1. The mufcles from the Sternum, which pull the throat downwards. 2. The Digaftric and the Styloid Mufcles, which pull the throat upwards. 3. The mufcles which make the flelh of the tongue, the chief part of its bulk. I. The mufcles coming upwards from the Sternum and fhoulder are, (34.) The Sterno-hyoideus, which is feen in all its length, ftretching from the Sternum to the Os Hyoides, and bending over the Thyroid Gland. (35.) The Sterno-thyroideus ; exactly like this, lying behind and under it, proceeding from the Sternum to end in the Thyroid Cartilage, and alfo bending over the Thyroid Gland. (41.) Is the place where the Sterno-thyroideus ends ; and the Thyro-hyoideus begins ; this (41.) then, is like a continuation of the fame mufcle, while it is really a diftin£t one, named Thyro-iiyoideus (41.) becaufe it goes from the Thyroid Cartilage, to the Os Hyoides. (36.) Is the Omo-hyoideus, of which the flefliy belly is marked, as in the other draw- ing (36.) while its middle tendon is marked (&). 2. TheOF 1 HE MUSCLES, icS II. The lxuicles which pull the throat upwards are, (40.) The Digaftricus, of which the rlrft belly (40.) is feen coming out from under the Thy- roid Gland, while the fore belly (») being cut away from the chin, hangs down. (39.) The Stylo-Hyoideus Mufcle, which is feen turning over the tendon of the Digaftricus, and tying it down in its place. (53.) The Stylo-pharyngeus, which lies very deep behind the other Styloid Mufcles, paffes down under the arm or branch of the Os Hyoides, and expands upon the Pharynx. AT. B. In this drawing, the Styloid Mufcles are diffie&ed upwards very nearly to that point (under the Parotid Gland,) where they rife fmall and delicate, from around the roots of the Styloid Procefs. III. The mufcles which compofe the chief bulk of the tongue, are thefe, (58.) The Stylo-gloffus, which comes fmall and delicate from the root of the Styloid Procefs; expands as it goes towards the tongue, and whofe office is to pull the ton sue down into the mouth. (59.) The PIyo-glqssus, which L have reprefented as one Tingle flat mufcle, riling from nearly the whole length of the Os Hyoides *. (60.) Is the Genio-glossus, fo named from its riling from that point of the lower jaw bone (0), w’hich is called the chin ; its fibres go into the tongue in a radiated form, in every direction, capable of performing all kinds of motions, of lolling the tongue out, and alfo of retracing it again) whence this mufcle has by way of pre-eminence been * From its arifing in three fafciculi or diftinft bundles, <vi%. one from the balls, one from the horn, and one from the Cartilage of the Os Hyoides, it has been called the Bafio-chondro-cerato-glofliis, or each fafciculus has occafionally been deferibed, as a diftinft mufcle.I OCj % BOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRD. been named Mufculus Linguae Pollychrellus. And (r) is the tongue itfelf, com- pofed chiefly of thefe mufcles, and covered with its membrane. The Genio-hyoideus (38.) is a mufcle riling from the fame point (0), of the chin ; Is implanted into the Os Ilyoideus. This mufcle which rifes from the point of the chin only, lies under the Mylo-hyoideus (37.) {vide Figure i.) which rifes from the whole length of the jaw ; and thefe together pull the Os Hyoides, and of confequence the throat upwards. So that there is feen by thefe two drawings, firft, how the Mylo-hyoideus,(37.) figure i. and the Genio-hyoideus, (38.) figure ii.pull the throat upwards. Secondly, how the Digaf- tric Mufcle (40.) and the three Styloid Mufcles, figure ii» pull the throat upwards and backwards. Thirdly, how the Sterno-thyroidei, Sterno-hyoidei, and Omo- hyoidei pull the throat downwards. And it is laltly very plain, that thefe at the fame time that they are properly mufcles of the throat, are occafionally mufcles of the lower jaw, the only ones indeed which pull it down ; little force is needed for this, the jaw dropping almolt by its own weight; but, as the motion mull be quick and voluntary, it mull be done by mufcles; and when the mufcles from the Sternum fix the throat or pull it down, the Genio-hyoidei, Mylo-hyoidei and Bi- venter deprefs the jaw ; f@ that the motions of the jaw and throat, or in other words, the adlion of chewing and fwallowing have tins confent, that they are partly per- formed by the fame common mufcles, fo that we cannot chew and fwallow at once; the jaw which moves in chewing the morfel, mull be fixed when it is to be fwal- lowed; and fo the motions for chewing and Iwallowing alternatively fucceed each other. PLATE•-> 1BOOK SECOND, PLATE FOURTH, lOf PLATE IV. Tbit and the two following Platts explain the Tent Book, fruit Page 23?, to Page 285, This plate explains thofe broad mufcles, which, belonging to the Scapula, lie flat upon the back, covering the whole of the trunk, and which are very remarkable in beautiful ftatues. The mufcles are chiefly the Trapezius, and the Latissimus Dorsi ; and this drawing is notfo much of value as a piece of Anatomy, as in explaining to the fludent the firfl; appearance of his difledlion of the back; and by explaining the great mufcles of the Scapula, it marks a good beginning for the Ana~ tomy of the arm. The Trapezius Muscle, (62) “ is one of the moil beautiful mufcles of the body, of a Lozenge-like form. Covers all the back and neck quite round to the fore-part of the Ihoulder; the two mufcles extend from the tip of the one fhoulder, to the « tip of the other, and from the nape of the neck quite down to the loins.” The itrong middle tendon by which the two mufcles of the oppofite fides are conne&ed, is marked (a), the infertion into the Occiput is marked (b), and the infertion into the fpine of the Scapula, is marked (c). « The Latissimus Dorsi, (70.) it is the broadeft not only of the back, but of the “ whole body, covering all the lower parts of the back and loins.” Its broad 5 flat, andOF THE MUSCLES. 110 and gliftening tendon is marked (J), the chief belly of the mufcle is marked with its number (70.) 5 the place where its fibres crofs is marked (e), and it then runs under the arm into the deep ihadow, being implanted into the arm bone to pull the arm backwards. The Deltoides (71.) next appears, the ikin being thrown down carelefsly, fo as to fhow where this mufcle rifes from the Spine of the Scapula ; and efpecially its origin is feen ; for it rifes from the Spine of the Scapula (y), and in part from that line of the Scapula into which the Trapezius Mufcle is inferted. A fmall part of the Teres Major, (76.) is feen in the fpace betwixt the Deltoides, and the Latiflimus Dorfi ; a fmall part of the Infra-spinatus, (74.) is feen lying upon the Scapula, under this (the back) part of the Deltoid; and alfo a fmall part of the Rhomboides, (65.) is feen under the edge of the Trapezius Mufcle. Upon the haunch, the upper part of the great Gluteus Mufcle (163.) is feen uncovered of the ikin, which hangs like a fcroll over the edge of the table* PLATEHE BOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. PLATE V. This Plate luiih the IV. & VI. explains tic Text Bank, j>om Pare 232, it Page 285. / ' This plate fhows the arm in that pofture into which it naturally falls, when thrown out upon the table, viz, {landing upon the lower angle of the Scapula, the flioulder joint raifed, and a little fupported, the elbow touching the table, the fore-arm lying flat along the table, the wrift raifed by the box of knives thruft under it, and the hand dropping over the box, fo as to touch the table again, with the knuckles. Figure I. defcribes the outtermoft layer of Mufcles. Figure II. (a fuller difleftion,) explains thofe which lie under, and contains every mufcle quite down to the bone. The two drawings are explained as one, lince they are indeed two drawings of the fame arm in one pofture ; and the moft natural arrangement for this explanation is, 1. Of the mufcles lying on the Scapula, and moving the fhoulder bone. 3. Mufcles lying on the arm, and moving the Radius and Ulna, the two bones of the fore-arm, and 3. The mufcles which lie upon the fore-arm, and which move the wrift, and fingers, and thumb. t. MusclesOF TK'E MUSCLES. 3.12 I. Muscles lying upon the Scapulav There is feen here, the part of the Serratus Major Anticus Mufcle, (66.) which lies upon the fore-part of the cheft, which goes backwards under the Scapula, be- twixt it and the ribs; and which is implanted,, as is feen here, into all the line of the Balls of the Scapula, to pull it forwards. The place where the Supra- spina- tus (73.) lies, above the Spine, is feen filled with its mufcle in the upper drawing, and the place of that mufcle is feen empty, and with only naked bone in the lower drawing. The Infra-sfinatus, (74.) is feen both in the upper and in the lower drawing, covering, all that part of the Scapula, w'hich is below the Spine. The Teres Minor, (75.) is feen both in the upper and in the lower drawing, lying in its place not much differed, and fo little feparated from the Infra-fpinatus (74.) that it looks rather like a particular fafciculus of that mufcle, as indeed it is ; but though the Teres Minor is not in its flelhy belly eafily diftinguiffied from the Subfcapularis, yet it has its tendon very diftindt:.. The Teres Major, (76.) is neither like the Teres Minor, nor is it round as its name imports, but is a large, flat, and long mufcle which comes along with the Teres Minor, from the angle of the Scapula, and being here fully diflTedted, and hanging, flabby, it is feen, that it twifts under the Ihoulder bone, and is implanted, not like the Teres Minor, which goes into the knob on the outiide of the head of the ffioul- der bone; but low down, and upon the lhaft of the bone, almoft as low as the in- fertion of the Deltoid Mufcle; fo that the fhoulder bpne is embraced betwixt the two Teretes Mufcles, even in the natural condition of the parts; and in the aukward twiftings of a luxation, the head of the bone is often ciofely embraced and ftrangled, as it were, betwixt the two Teretes mufcles, and not unfrequently under the fub- fsapularis ; an accident which makes the bone mote difficult to reduce ; but very often theBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. 113 the joint is not at all embraced by the mufcles, but is quite loofe and moveable, and its being eafily reduced, is rather perhaps to be conlidered as a fign of the joint being much hurt and all thefe mufcles torn away. (71.) Is the Deltoides, the laft mufcle which proceeds from the Scapula on this fide of the arm. It is feen here riling from the Spine of the Scapula («), from the tip of the Acromion Procefs (7>), and alfo it has an origin from a part of the clavicle. It is feen here implanted in the arm bone at (d), about one third down. In the upper drawing it lies in its place ; in the lower drawing it is cut up and turned backward, to Ihow the head of the bone, and the infertion of the Teres Minor. But there are Hill two other mufcles which rife from the Scapula, to be implanted into the arm bone, vi%. the Subscapularis, (77.) and the Coraco-brachialis, (72.) which are both feen in the next plate. II. The Mufcles moving the fore-arm, and which lie' upon the arm, are the Triceps and Anconeus behind, and the Biceps and Brachialis Internus before. The Triceps (80.) was once defcribed as three mufcles, but is now accounted as one mufcle, having three heads ; (y) the firft, a long head, which rifes from the lower edge of the Scapula, near the Glenoid Cavity; and, coming down betwixt the Teres Major, and the Teres Minor Mufcles (75.) and (76.) meets the fecond head which is Ihorter ; for the fecond head of the Triceps (f), rifes from the Ihoulder bone, a little below the head of the bone, ahd takes a long origin from almoft the whole length of the humerus. In thefe two drawings, the firfl: and fecond head only of the Triceps is feeu ; but in the next plate, the third or fhorteft head (g) of the Triceps is feen, coming rather from the inner fide of the bone, and lower down. The Anconeus, (81.) or Mufcle of the Elbow, is a fmall mufcle not very eafily found nor underflood. It lies exactly upon that part of the elbow on which we reft in lean- ing upon the arm. It is feen in the upper drawing only, and is marked with its number (81). P (78.) TheOF THE MUSCLES. H4 (78.) The Biceps, the Thick Mufcle of the fore part of the Arm, is feen in the upper figure. But the middle of its belly only is feen ; its heads lying under the Deltoid Mufcle. The Brachialis Internus, (79.^ which lies under the Biceps, is feen in the uper drawing, but it is better feen in the lower drawing; and the manner of its riling from the fore part of the Ihoulder-bone is tolerably well exprelfed. Neither of the heads of the Biceps can be feen in the upper drawing, becaufe of the Deltoid Mufcle; but in the lower drawing, where the Deltoid is cut up from the Scapula, and reclined backwards, the longer head of the Biceps is feen raifed upon the blow-pipe, (£) which is palled under it juft where the tendon is coming out from the Capfule of the Ihoulder joint; for this head of the Biceps is a long and {lender tendon, which comes from within the cavity of the Ihoulder joint, and goes down under the belly of the Deltoid Mufcle, being tendinous quite to the middle of the arm. The mufcles of the Fore Arm are arranged in my defcription of the Mufcles under two clafles. I. The Extenfors of the wrift, fingers, and thumb, which all keep the outer round fide of the fore-arm, arifing chiefly from the outer Condyle. IT. The Flexors, or Benders of the wrift, fingers, and thumb, which lie all upon the inner flat fide of the fore-arm, riling in their turn, chiefly from the inner Condyle. In thefe drawings the extenfors only can be feen ; in the drawings of the next plate all the flexors are feen. To begin then with the Mufcles lying upon the upper or radial edge of the fore arm, there is, (92.) The Supinator Longus Radii, which turns the palm of the hand up ; for it rifes from the fnoulder bone, above the elbow joint, and gees down the fore-arm with a long fiat tendon, which is marked (1) to be planted into the Radius at its fore-part. (102.) The Supinator Radii Brevis, is a deeper Mufcle, and therefore it is feen onlyBOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. only in figure ii. where it is feen lying clofe upon the Inter-ofieous Ligament, riling from the Ulna, going acrofs to be inferted broad and flelhy into the Radius, and turning the Radius upon the Ulna, fo as to throw the palm upwards. The two next mufcles keep alfo very exadlly to the Radial edge of the arm ; belong to the wrill; are the extenfors of the wrilt on the Radial fide of the arm ; and are named Extenfores Carpi Longior et Brevior. (93.) The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior, riles from the arm bone juft under the place of the Supinator Longus (92.) ; has a ftrong flelhy belly like it; and its long tendon accompanies the long tendon of the Supinator, and is implanted near the root of the thumb, at (k~)f to bend the wrift back. (94.) The Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, rifes alfo from the Ihoulder bone, but lower, and thence it is Ihorter; but it is in all other refpeds like the former ; like it has a lhort thick flelhy belly; a long and flender tendon, running along the wrift, is implanted into the back of the hand, at the root of the fore-finger, at (/) ; and like the former it bends the wrift backwards. Thefe three mufcles, the Supinator, and the two extenfors, form tire chief flelli of tire fore-arm juft under the elbow joint, and the three bellies make three dimples and three curious fwellings, which are drawn by the painter with great care, for they make the chief marks of the fore-arm ; and the true drawing of the fore-arm (in its bendings and fore-lhortenings, and efpecially in its ftrong exertions of pulling or grafping,) confifts chiefly in the right placing of thefe three bellies, where they cover the joint; and it is the riling belly of the Supinator, which (in the drawing),- joins the fore-arm rightly to the arm. Thefe three mufcles are feen lying in their places in the upper drawing, but flaccid. In the lower drawing,, the Supinator, (92.) is cut away, and the place, whence it was cut out from the arm-bone, is marked with its number (92.), while the long Extenfor (93.) and the lhort Extenfor (94.) are both left in their place ; but they are much difiefted, and allowed to hang P 2 over116 OK THE MUSCLES. over by their own weight to the inner fide of the fore-arm, fo that in this lower drawing their tendons are lefs perfe&ly feen. (05.) The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris is feen in the upper drawing differed very clean, lying loofe and flabby, but yet not feparated from the Ulna ; whereas in the lower drawing it is fo fully differed, as to fall away from the Ulna, leaving the bone at (m) naked. And fo there remains of all the mufcles on this fide of the fore-arm, thofe only which extend the fingers and thurpb ; and they are all feen, in the upper drawing, difiedled, but kill in their places. In the lower arm they are all thrown loofe. (96.) The Extensor Communis Digitorum is feen in the upper drawing thick and maffy ; covering the other (lender mufcles. This mufcle goes to all the fingers, by the tendons (n n) which are feen on the back of the hand. In the upper figure the Ex- tenfor Communis is in its place; in the lower drawing it is cut up, and thrown out upon the table. {'97.) Extensor Digiti Minimi vel Auricularis is feen only in the lower drawing, for in the upper drawing it is covered by the Extenfor Communis. It is like a flip of the Extenfor Communis, and confequently it is cut up here along with the Extenfor Communis. The (lender tendons of the Extenfor Communis are marked (n «.) The (lender tendon of the Auricularis is marked (0.) But the fore finger alfo has a particular Extenfor, which is named Indicator, and the thumb has three Extenfors, named ift, 2d, and 3d. (98.) The Extensor Primus Pollicis is thefirft upon the edge of the arm, pafiing ob- liquely over the Radius (ggd) The Extensor Secundus is next to that; and the Extensor Tertius (ioo.) is next to that again. Thefe three Extenfors are feen fully difledted in the lower drawing, hanging loofe, and their (lender tendons diftindtly feen. In the upper drawing they are lefs difledled ; and the manner in which the three ten- dons crofs obliquely over the wrift, and the manner of their coming up to the thumb touching the great joint of it, ris well explained. It is feen here that thefe tendons are bound117 BOOK SECOND, PLATE FIFTH. bound down by the Annular Ligament (*) ; and by railing the thumb flrongly in our own hand, we can compare it with this difledlion, for we fee the darting up of thefe tendons of the thumb, and we fee at the fame time the point diltindtly marked at which the ring of the Annular Ligament holds them down. The Indicator (ioi.) lies next to the Extenfor Tertius Pollicis ; it rifes from the -Ul- na ; its (lender tendon goes up to the fore-finger to extend it. This mufcle is feen on- ly in the lower drawing. In the upper drawing all the mufcles are in their na- tural places, the tendons being bound down by the Annular Ligament which is marked (*). It is a tendinous expanfion, thin, flat, and ribband-like, and the mufcles extending the fingers are feen through this transparent band. It is called the Annular, or Ring-like Ligament of the wrift. ✓ \ PLATE\ r V* V • 'BOOS 6ECGND, PLATS SIXTH. PLATE VL ‘This Plate explains the Text Both, from pag- 217, to page 220. X HIS plate explains all the flexor mufcles of the hand, wrift, and fingers, by a drawing taken when the arm was fet up for the figures of the laft plate, and confequently the poftures are exprefly the fame; and the parts, as the Scapula, the Clavicle, and the pofition of the fore-arm mull be eafily underftood. THe Seratus Major Anticus (66.) is ftill feen hanging down from the bails of the Scapula. Part of'■he Supra-fpinatus (73.) is feen above the Spine. Belova the-Spine io. foow-tho Infra fpimrtws. The Subscapularis (77.) is feen filling the whole of the hollow of the Scapula, lying der the Scapula, betwixt it and the ribs. The Teres Major (76.) is feen here alfo hanging down flaccid from the place, where it is implanted into the fhoulder bone. That part of the Deltoides (71.) which rifes from the Clavicle (a) is feen here. The Biceps Brachii (78.) is feen in the upper drawing with the belly marked (78), lying in its place. Its longer flender tendon which comes from within the fhoulder joint is marked (h)„ Its fhorter tendon which ftill is very long but thick and flefhy. 2 isOF THE MUSCLES. 12 O The is feen marked (c), coming from under the Deltoid mufcle where it rifes from the Coracoid Procefs. Its flat tendon, which expands upon the fore-arm, and flrengthens the general fafcia of the arm, is feen fpreading out over the mufcles at (J), and the ragged edges of the fafcia are feen lying out upon the mufcles, for the mufcles both above and below are differed clean, while the fafcia of the arm is left only at (d)y that the connection betwixt this fafcia and the Biceps tendon might be explained. In the lower drawing the fhorter head of the Biceps (c) is feen cut away from the Cora- coid Procefs (e), and hung up by a firing. The longer head (3) is pulled upwards by a firing, that it may be feen how it comes from under the clavicle, where it rifes within the fhoulder joint. The Coracoid Procefs whence the fhorter head arifes is marked (e), and it is feen that there are three points of mufcles flicking to the apex of the procefs ; for the little peftoral mufcle (67.) is implanted into it ; and the Coraco-brachialis (72.) and this fhorter head of the Biceps rife from it. The Brachialis Internus ('79.) is feen in both arms, lying under the belly of the Bi- ceps, and rifmg from the bone. The Coraco-brachialis (72.) is feen in both the drawings. In the upper drawing it is touched by the fhort head of the Biceps, which makes it lefs diflinfl. In the low- er drawing the fhort head of the Biceps is tucked up. The Coraco-brachialis is fully diflecled, and is left flaccid and hanging away from the arm bone ; and its ori- gin from the Coracoid Procefs (<?), and its infertion into the middle of the fhoul- der bone at (g) are both well feen.. Over the middle of the bending of the Coraco-brachialis there is feen the remains of a flat and broad tendon, (69.) flicking to the arm bone, which is the cut tendon of the great pectoral mufcle, which is implanted thus low upon the Os Humeri, to give it the advantage of a lever in pulling the fhoulder bone inwards. I have ufed the mark (69.) of the pectoral mufcle to point out its tendon. The Triceps (Bo.J is alfo well feen, efpecially two of its heads, viz. the longefl head (/jj and the fhortefl head (g), while the head which is of a middle length lies upon the back part of the bone, and cannot be feen in this view.21 BOOK SECOND, FLATS SIXTH. The mufcles of the Fore-arm, i. e. all the Flexors of the hand, fingers, and thumb, are fhown here ; in the upper drawing, they are in their natural pofition, in the lower drawing, they are feparated for demonftration, and feme of them, are hung out. In the upper drawing, the mufcles of the fore-arm are few and fimple, lying regularly in their places ; and fo are eafily underllood. One mufcle belonging to the outfide of the arm is feen here, viz. the Supinator Radii Longus, (92.) the belly of which is feen lying upon the Radial edge of the arm, above the elbow ; the next to that is the Pronator Teres, (Si-) It rifes at (h)v from the internal Condyle ; is implanted into the Radius at (7), and turns the hand prone, (i. e.') flat down. It is called Pronator Teres, becaufe it has a round flelhy belly, very oppofite in Ihape to the Pronator Quadratus ; for the Provator Quadratus, (91.) which is feen in the lower drawing is of afquare form, lying flat upon the Inter-olTeous Membrane, riling from the Ulna, implanted into the Radius, and having only one dired office, viz. that of turning the Radius. The next mufcle to the Pronator Teres, is the Flexor Carpi Radialis, (85.) or the bender of the wrift, on the fide of the Radius. Its head is covered in part by the expanding tendon of the biceps at (d) ; then the reft of the mufcle is naked ; and its long tendon is feen as it goes along the Radial edge of the fore-arm marked (&). The Palmaris Longus, (83.) is a long, {lender, and delicate mufcle; it is merely a bender of the wrift ; and comes by a fmall head from the inner Condyle of the Hu- merus, and its fmall tendon runs down the middle of the arm till it touches the Anular Ligament of the wrift, to be implanted into it. This Anular Ligament I have marked (*) ; but though it has the fame mark with the Anular Ligament on the outfide of the arm, it is not a continuation of the fame Ligament, nor is it like it; but is a fhort, thick, and very ftrong ligament palling acrofs from the Pifiform, to the Scaphoid bone of the Carpus. It is lhorter and ftronger than the Anular Ligament of the outfide ; it has a firmer origin from two particular bones, o. and222 OF THE MUSCLES. The and has a deeper arch under it: for the tendons which it binds down are very numerous, and conne£ted with much ftronger mufcles than thofe on the back of the hand. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, (86.) lies along the ulnar edge of the arm ; is a penni- fcrm or feather-like mufcle, very flelhy ; rifes from the inner Condyle along with the Palmaris Longus, (83.) and is implanted by a ftrong round tendon into the projefting Pifiform Bone. The Flexor Digitcrum Sublimis, (87.) is a very large thick bellied mufcle. It is called Sublimis, becaufe it is the outtermoft of the two flexor mufcles. It is feen here lying in its place, thick and flelhy in its belly ; its tendons palling under the arch of the Anular Ligament, appearing in the palm of the hand, to go to all the fingers ^ there are four diftindt tendons, which are here fupported upon a blow-pipe mark- ed (m) ; and the place of the Flexor Profundus, which lies under, it is feen at (88.) In the lower drawing, the mufcles of the fore-arm are feen much freer and better. The Pronator Teres (82.) is feen in its place, thick, round, and flelhy. The Palmaris Longus, (83.) is thrown out upon the table; by which it is feen how lhort and delicate its mufcular belly is ; how long, llender, and delicate its tendon (/z), from which it has got its name. And the Palmar Apponeurofis, or tendinous^web, (/), which covers the palm of the hand, and which like the palm is of a triangular form, is here cut up and left connected with its tendon. The Upper Flexor of the fingers, or Flexor Sublimis, (87.) is fupported by a ligature, fo as to draw its four tendons nearly into a ftraight line, Ihowmg how they are fplit near the fingers, whence this mufcle is often named Perforatus. The deep Flexor, Flexor Profundus, (88.) is left at its origin. Its belly is raifed ana drawn out a little, and held extended by a pin; and the three tendons of this mnfcle are feen going through the loops, or fplits of the tendon of the Tall mufcle, whence this one is named Mufculus Perforans.T ^ -T> BOOK SECOND, PLATE SIXTH. 1 “ J 'Thefe tendons of the Perforans and Perforatus are alfo well feen in the uppermoft figure, where the perforating tendons are raifed over the blowpipe (o), and the perforated tendons are alfo fupported upon another blowpipe (m). The mufcle marked ("83 *) which feems to go with a particular tendon towards the fore- finger, as if it were a particular Flexor for the fore-finger, is merely that head of the general Flexor which goes to the fore-finger, it is a part of the Flexor Profundus ; and this particular appearance is produced merely by differing this belly a little too high up ; for this mufcle, and the Flexor Sublimis alfo, are divided or divifeable into four diftinfl bellies, for each of the four diftincf fingers which they ferve. The Flexor Longus Pollicis, (90.) is a large and ftrong mufcle for bending the laid joint of the thumb ; its tendon is feen going in under the two fhort mufcles of the thumb, and is feen again at (y) efcaping from betwixt the fhort Flexors, and going forwards to the point of the thumb. The Pronator Quadratus, ("91.) is feen lying flat upon the Interofieous Membrane which is marked (p). The mufcles of the Hand are not fully explained, but yet the chief mufcles are feen. The Abductor Brevis Pollicis, (103.^ is feen in the upper drawing rifing from the outfide of the Annular Ligament. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis, (105) is feen rifing alfo from the Annular Ligament. Another head rifes deeper in the hand, but is not feen here, there is feen only the tendon of the long Flexor, palling betwixt thefe two heads of the Ihort Flexor. The Opfonens Pollicis, ("104.) cannot be feen here, becaufe it does not move any of the joints of the thumb. It belongs only to the Metacarpal Bone of the thumb ; and of courfe it lies under thefe two. The Adductor Pollicis, (106^) or, that which carries the thumb towards the fore- finger, is alfo feen here ; but fo much under Ihadow, that it is not to be dif- tinguilhed from the Abductor Indicis, (iio.) For the Addu&or Pollicis and Abdu&ocOF THE MUSCLES. 2 24 Abdu&or Indicis lie clofe upon each other, and are of the fame flat and tri'an* gular fliape. The mufcles of the little finger are, the Abdu&or and the Flexor Minimi Digiti j but it is the Abductor Minimi Digiti (T07.J only that is feen here, lying on the edge of the palm, under the little finger; which we feel a&ing, when we fpread wide the little finger, or when taken with that flight cramp which we often feel upon the lower edge of the palm. PLATE_ MusclesSOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH, I25 \ PLATE VIL This Plate explaint the Tent Bool, from Page 435, t* Pag* 310* This plate reprefents the Trunk of the body in various drawings; ex- plaining thofe mufcles of the Scapula, which lie flat under the Trapezii Mufcles;—alfo the ferrated mufcles, which raife or deprefs the ribs in breathing; the Longissimus Dorsi, and Sacro-Lumbalis, the chief mufcles which fupport the Spine; and it alfo explains the Intercoftai Mufcles ; the Levators of the ribs; the lefler mufcles of the neck and Spine ; and the Recti Capitis, the fmall nodding mufcles of the head. It explains a fet of mufcles, which are found in the book from page 235, to page 310. From page 235 of the book, forwards, are explained the chief mufcles of the Scapula; as the Levator Scapulae, the Rhomboid Mufcles, and the Serratus Anti- cus; and thefe three are the chief outermoft mufcles in the difleftion reprefented in figures i. and ii. The Levator Scapula, (63.) is feen in Figure I. on both fides, rifing from the Tranf- verfe Proceffes of the upper Vertebras of the neck, and going downwards to be im- planted into the upper corner of the Scapula, whence it is named Mufculus Angularis Scapulae. The Rhomboid mufcles, (64, and 65.) are two flat mufcles which come with a thin flat 2.OF THE MUSCLES. 126 flat tendon from the Spines of the neck and back, and are implanted quite flelhy, but Hill thin and flat, into the whole length of the nails of the Scapirla. The divi- flon betwixt the cervical portion of this mufcle, (64.) which is the Rhomboides Minor, and the larger portion coming from the Spines of the back, and which is named Rhomboides Major, (65.) is very flight. Part of the InfraSpinatus, (74.) is feen here ; the Deltoides, (71.) is alfo feen ; the Serratus Major Anticus, (66.) or great mufcle for moving the Scapula forwards, is feen lying upon the fide of the cheft, riling fiom the ribs to pafs under the Scapula, where it is implanted into the whole length of the Balls of the Scapula, exaflly oppofite to the infertion of the Rhomboides. But in Figure II. the Ser- ratus Major Anticus is reprefented again lying under the Scapula; and the Scapula, to Flow it, is cut almoft away from the trunk, and is thrown out into a very unnatural pofition, and the confluence of the feparate heads or Serrae by which this mufcle rifes from each of the ribs is indiftindlly marked. Thus the Serratus Anticus is feen to be a mufcle belonging to the Scapula; but the SeRRati Postici, (113. 114.) art mufcles of the ribs belonging chiefly to refpira- tion, and they are feen in Figure I. and thefe mufcles of the ribs are explained in the book from page 285, to page 290. The upper Serrated mufcle lies flat under the Rhomboides ; the lower Serrated mufcle lies in like manner flat under the La- tiffimus Dorfi mufcle ; but they cover the Longissimus Dorfi and Sacro-lumbalis mufcles, the lower Serratus covering their flelhy bellies, and the uppermoft cover- ing their tendons. The Serratus Superior Posticus (113.) is feen lying flat upon the fide of the neck; on the right fide the Rijomeoides covers it; on the left fide it is feen naked. It be- gins by a neat flat lhining tendon, refplendent like the colours of a filh turning in the water; and this flat tendon (which is exactly like the flat tendon of the Rhom- boid mufcle) comes from the three lower Spines of the neck, and divides into three neat fmall flelhy heads which are marked (a a), and thefe are implanted into three ofBOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH. I 27 of the ribs ; and bjT railing three ribs it is plain that they mud raife the whole cheft. The Serratus Inferior Posticus (114.) is the exadfc antagonift of this, and exaftly like it in all refpedls, only that it goes obliquely from below upwards, to pull the ribs down. It arifes by a filvery Aiming tendon like the upper one ; the tendon is very ltrong, but thinner than a llieet of paper. It ends in three heads, which are thin flat flips of flefli, infer ted into the three or four lower ribs a little beyond their angles. The Levatores Costarum, (115 .) are concealed by thefe mufcles, but are feen in the next difle&lon, Figure II. where they are feen to be in number twelve pairs corre- fponding with the number of the ribs. The nine uppermoft are feen to be fliort ; the three lower pairs are feen to pais one rib, and to take hold on the rib below. Whence they are named Levatores Costarum Longiores. / The Levatores Coftarum are thefe tw'elve diftindt mufcles, riling from the tranfverfe pro- cefs of each vertebra, and going down to lay hold upon each rib ; and fo they lie flat upon the outfide of the ribs, and keep clofe to the Spine, and are fliort. But there are befides regular plans of fibres lying in the interftices of the ribs, which go from the edge of one rib to the edge of another, and fill up the fpace betwixt the ribs and lienee are named 1 ntercostals. The internal intercc ftals exactly referable the external intercoftals. The external intercoftals only can be feen here, and they are feen bell in the left fide of figure ii. marked (116.) the three lower internal intercoftal mufcles lying upon the three lower ribs are longer than the others, juft as the lower Levators are longer; but it is not fo in the outer layer of intercoftals which (except in a few ftraggling fibres) are all of equal length. The mufcles which raife the trunk from the Hooping pofture, and efpecially the Qua- dratus Lumborum, Sacro-Lumbalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Transversalis Col- li, and Cervicalis, are explained from page 297, to page 301. and they are all. pretty diftinclly marked in figures i. and ii. In Figure I. the Longissimus Dorsi (126.) and the Sacro Lumbalis (127.) are feen only in the middle of the back; for they are covered by the Rhomboid and Serratus fupetiorOF THE MUSCLES. 128 i’uperior mufcles above, and in the fame way by the Serratus inferior Pofiicus be- low ; but in figure ii. the three great mufcles of the Spine, viz. the Quadratus Lumborum (125.) the Longissimus Dorsi (126.) and the Sacro-Lumbalis (127.) are feen quite uncovered, and in their whole length ; for their tendinous origin in the loins at (b), their middle bellies at (126, 127.) and their long tendinous infer- tions at (c), are all diftin&ly feen ; and alfo their connexion with the Cervicalis Descenders (128.) is explained. The Quadrates Lumborum, (125.) which is cut away bn the right fide, is feen dis- tinctly on the left fide, arifing big and flelhy from the Spine of the Ilium, and infert- ed partly into the tranfverfe procefies of the loins, but chiefly into the lowed; rib. The common tendon of the Longifiimus Dorfi, and of the Sacro-Lumbalis, is feen at (b); it is a firm, thick, and Itrong origin, which is thus entirely tendinous without, but flefhy within; it rifes from the Sacrum, Ilium, and tranfverfe procefies of the Vertebrae, and fills up all the hollow upon both fides of the Spine. The belly of the Sacro-Lumbalis (127.) parts from the belly of the Longissimus Dorsi, (126.) at the top of the loins, nearly oppofite to the loweft rib. The Longifiimus Dorfi keeps clofer by the Spine, and is inferted by a double row of \ tendinous feet; but they lie fo under its own belly, and under the belly of the Sa- cro-Lumbalis, that they are hidden from the view. The tendinous feet of the Sacro- Lumbalis are well feen, fpreading out wider from the Spine and attaching themfelves to the ribs; and thefe tendons marked (c c) are feen in figure i. lying flat and regu- lar, each in its right place; but in figure ii. they are more differed, are torn up a lit- tle from the flat furface of the ribs, and hang fomewhat loofe and flaccid. On the right fide of the neck is feen the Cervicalis Descendens, (12%.) rifing from the tranfverfe procefies of the neck, going down to be implanted tendinous into the back, (i. e.') into the ribs. The Cervicalis is inferted under the upper tendons of the Sacro-Lumbalis, and the Longifiimus Dorfi, on the other hand, is feen to fend a de- licate flip of tendon up into it; fo that the Cervicalis feems equally conne&ed with bothBOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH, J-29 both of thefe mufcles, but it is rather more beholden to the Longiffimus Dorfi, for this flip ; while the accident of the Cervicalis riling under the tendinous feet of the Sacro-Lumbalis makes hardly any connexion. On the left fide again there is feen, the Transversalis Colli (129.); which riling from the Tranfverfe Procefles of the back, afcends towards the Tranfverfe Pro- cefles of the neck; it is rather ftrong and fleihy, has little connexion with any other mufcle ; the Cervicalis Defcendens lies under it, while this the Tranfverfalis is in its turn covered by the Splenms and Complexus *. R The * There are three flender mufcles in the neck, which are in danger of being confounded, viz. the Trachelo-mastoideus, ^Transversalis Cervicis, and the Cervicalis Descenders. It is impoffible to give a perfect drawing on fo fmall a fcale, nor indeed is it poflible by any drawing, f to reprefent them fo that they fhall be eafily found, and diftinguifhed; perhaps they will beft be found by following this order of dilfedtion. 1. The Trapezius and the Rhomboides, the two large flat external mufcles belonging to the Scapula, are to be cut away ; and then the Serratus Superior where it covers the lower part of the Complexus is to be raifed. 2. The Splenius and Complexus are •to be diflefted and laid alide; and 3. the Trachelo-maftoideus, and the two other mufcles come into view. Of thefe, First, there lies immediately under the Complexus the Trachelo-maftoideus, large and fleihy, riling from the Tranfverfe Procefles in the back and lower part of the neck, by tendinous and fleihy feet, and going obliquely upwards and outwards till it is implanted fleihy into the Maftoid Procefs; and though it is more fleihy than the two mufcles which come next, it ftill is fo much a mix- ture of tendon and flelh, as to be named the Complexus Minor.—Secondly, There is the Transver- salis Cervicis, which lies immediately under the Trachelo-maftoideus, keeps clofe to the Spine, i. e. lies in the hollow by the fide of the Spinous Procefles. It rifes from the Tranfverfe Procefles of the back to be implanted in the Tranfverfe Procefles of the neck; is immediately covered by the Trachelo-Maftoideus; and covers in part the Cervicalis Defcendens.—Thirdly, there is the Cer- yicalis Descendens, which lies more to one fide than the Tranfverfelis Cervicis; it therefore iies more properly under the Trachelo-Maftoideus ; its feet or tendinous origins begin from the tips of the Tranfverfe Procefles of the neck, juft where the feet or fmall tendons of the Levator Scapulae begin ; it is very flender and is a confuted mixture of tendon and flelh, being chiefly ten- dinous, though it is fleihy in part. It is necelfary to give this warning, that not even the large!!; drawing can make this piece of difieftion perfedtly eafy ; perhaps it may be the eafier for this de- feription and arrangement.OF THE MUSCLES. " 2 ' Obliquus 13° ['he riling flip of the LongilTxmus Dorfi has led to this explanation of the Tranfverfalis, and of the Cervicalis Defcendens ; but naturally before thefe, there fhould have been explained the two larger mufcles which cover them, viz. the Splenius and Complexus, which are bell feen in figures i. and iii. In figure i. are J'een, the Splenii (n8.) ftraight and flat, lying along the fide of the neck, like the legs of the letter V. and in the interftice or place of their forking, is feen. the chief belly of the Complexus, (119.) where it is implanted into the Occiput, lying under the Splenii. In figure iii. the Splenii are cut away, the Complexus only is feen,. the chief belly of the Complexus where it is implanted into the Os Occipitis is marked with its proper number (119.) ; while its feet (partly ten- dinous and partly fieftiy), by which it rifes from the Tranfverfe Proceffcs of the. neck and back, are marked (« f). The mufcles belonging exclufively to the Spine, are next feen in figure iii. for the chief of them are thefe two, Firft, the Spinalis Dorsi, (131.) or long mufcle be- longing to the Spinous Proceffes of the back. It runs along the whole back from 4 fpine to fpine; it is very flender and almoft entirely tendinous, and is marked’ ■with its- number, (131.J Secondly, the Multiiidus Spin^e, (133.) which is a . confufed mixture of tendon and flefti, but thick and maffy enough to fill all the hollow over the Oblique Proceffes of the Vertebrae, and betwixt the Spinous and Tranfverfe Proceffes. Three of the four fmall mufcles which perform the quick turning and nodding motions- of the head, are explained upon the head, figure iv. where the two fmall mufcles- called Recti Capitis are feen difiecled fairly, and laid over a blow-pipe ; and here it will be obferved that the two Recti Minores (121.) are fmaller, and lie deeper betwixt the Atlas and the Scull; that the Rectus Major ('122.) is not, as its name implies, a ftraight mufcle, but is truely oblique. One of the Oblique mufcles is alfo ftiown here, for there are two oblique mufcles, fome\vhat like the Real or ftraight ones. The Oblique Mufcle (123,) which is here lhown, is theBOOK SECOND, PLATE SEVENTH. I3T R 4 PLATE Obliquus Superior, which rifes from the Tranfverfe Procefs ef the Atlas, to be inferted into the Occiput. The Obliquus inferior, which rifes from the Dentatus to be fixed into the Atlas is here cut away, for only the Atlas is left in this drawing. //T n Major -y— ^ Dentes T /I ). s ;'I •* •> ^ ' : - **% - ■ ■ ; . .. "' ■ - S. il»»; VKvil -v,^4ui* . . - Ji V. ,. , . ■ ■'r' '"■? '^<W1 •’ L l - ■ v - .Vi. w V ■*' •'lit r., ' ' .* *r > -i'siii^o gnit . \ " - 5 e " • > ‘ ,: > - . \ y x o * . ... T ’ fo 9*ft • , - ’ • • •'••’••* •■• ti:*V, ‘-■j ; • m* - , >' ■ » *.• i»fr I w v b-A ...-re.*- - ■ . * » , :<k * 1 ' ■ ■’' • - ■ •" Inn ins ■ ' . 1 1c ii; i ,s - > '/}£:// ... — $«’ > *_.r’ • ■ - ■ ■* taitott iltb 3H i v * * ^ *» f>.9W) *-%fwl ** ; fl3* er Y>. ... , . y , ... - f V tfUi :- , . ’ * C'f.f ^ t3#tnq ?jji jfjJv* ' «* < ' " S’ , A /BOOK. SECOND, PLATE EIGHTH. Plate VIII. gives a general view of the Abdominal Mufcles, as they are frji laid open. Plate IX. gives a fecond direc- *3 Ihe drawings and plans which are numbered, VIII, IX. X. ''-V XI, explain chapter vi. and vii. of the book, contain- ing the Abdominal Mufcles, the Diaphragm, and the mufcles of the Perineum, tion of the Abdominal Mufcles, Jbowing the fucceffive layers of the great Mufcles which cover the Abdomen. Plate X. explains the general appearance of the Diaphragm, and its relation to the body. Plate XI. explains by plans and drawings, the Diaphragm and the mufcles of the parts of generation. PLATE VIII. -Xplains the firft difledtion of the Abdominal Mufcles in a lateral view ; and the chief intention of the drawing is, to fhow the general appear- ance of the belly when uncovered of its fkin; to fhow the great fize of the Mufculus Obliquus Externus, “ and how it covers all the fide with “ its flefhy belly, and all the fore-part of the Abdomen with its thin , “ expanded tendonto explain the two great lines or marks, the Linea Alba, and Linea Semi-lunaris, and to fhow the ring of the Abdo- minal Mufcles, and the ligament of the thigh in their true fhapes, with- the exit of the great arteries of the thigh, and the pafiage of the Sper- matic Cord, The defeription then of thefe few parts needs not be tedious. Firft, the great belly of the External Oblique Mufcle of the Abdomen is marked with its proper number (143.) ; and it is feen here how it covers the fide, how it lies out upon the fore-part of the Thorax, and how it rifes from the ribs by indigna- tions. wOlf THE MUSCLES. *34 tions, which are marked fo dark that they can be uuderftood only by the indigita- tions (a a a) of the Serratus Major Anticus Mufcle, in the interftices of which they rife. The belly of this mufcle covers only the fide, flops fuidenly at (b b), which reprefent the flat tendon, the fibres of which go obliquely from above downwards and in- wards, whence it is named Obliquus Descenders. The letters (ccc) fhow the line which is called Linea Semi-lunaris ; and the letters are fo placed, as alfo to point out the interfeftions or tendinous lines which divide the Refti, or ftraight mufcles of the Abdomen, into four or five diftinft bellies; and confequently the letters (ccc) alfo mark the feveral bellies of the Reft us, fhining through the thin expanded tendon of the External Oblique. ("*) Marks the head of the Reftus Mufcle, where it rifes from the border of the Thorax, touching the Pectoral MuscLe (69.), and at the place of this mark (*), the mufcle is uncovered of its fheath ; this mark ferves alfo another ufe, for it is repeated again below near the navel, fo that thefe two marks Crow the whole length of the Linea Alba, or white line, which is feen running down all the center of the belly from the Sternum quite to the Pubis, palling through the navel, and formed by the meeting of the tendons'of all the mufcles. And it is perhaps worth notice, that the fmall holes marked very dark, which a’-e neat, fmall, and round, and which appear in every difieftion, like Oilet Holes, and are efpe- cially frequent over the furfaces of the Refti Mufcles, are juft the openings by which the great Cutaneous Veins of the Abdomen pierce the flat tendon of the External Oblique Mufcle, to get to the bellies of the Mufcles which lie under it, or rather to come back from them, returning chiefly the blood of the Epigaftric Artery f. The T 1 queftion whether it be not truely a wound of one of thefe large veins, (and they are greatly •dilated in dropfy of the belly), which occafions that kind of bleeding, which fo often happens in tapping the belly.200K SECOND, PLATE EIGHTH. *35 ii PLATE , The tendency of the Oblique fibres of the Abdominal Mufcle to fplit is eafily feen, and the manner of its fpliting to form the Ring of the Abdominal Muscles is faithfully reprefented, where (d) marks the lower pillar of the ring ; (e) the upper pillar of the ring; and it is plain that (^.) while it forms the lower pillar of the ring, is at the fame time the Ligament of the thigh, (f) Marks the Spermatic Cord coming through the opening of the ring (y) marks the femoral Artery coming from under Paupart’s Ligament, or the Ligament of the thigh. Whence it will be underltood how Bubonocele or Hernia of the Groin, following the courfe of the Spermatic Cord, will proceed obliquely inwards, and mull (in attempting to re- duce it), be pulhed from within outwards: and how a femoral Hernia will by coming out from under the femoral Ligament, be lodged fairly in the thigh, far from the Groin; lying very deep, apt to be concealed from the Surgeon; and how by following the courfe of the great veflels of the thigh, the Femoral Hernia will proceed from within obliquely outwards, fo that, in attempting to reduce this Hernia, we mull pulli from without obliquely inwards.c® imm p»l. - ' Jgj mflu*37 BOOK SECOND, PLATE NINTH. PLATE IX. ‘This Plate along "with the former explains the ‘Text Book, from page 311, to page 323. I-^Xplains the fecond difledtion of the belly; where the mufcles being cut and thrown out upon the thighs, may feem irregular and confufed, though it is truly the natural order and true appearance of the diflec- tion. The view is not fore-fhortened enough to make a pleafant draw- ing, becaufe it was neceflary to look from a high point, as in feeing a difledtion from the feats of a Theatre, in order to have a full view of all the belly, from the Pubis to the Sternum. 1. The External Oblique Muscle, (143.) is entirely cut away, and no part of it remains on either fide. 2. The Internal Oblique Muscle (144.) is feen on both fides; on the left fide of the body it is cut up from its infertion, and is thrown down upon the thigh, Ihowing chiefly how thick and ftrong its flefhy belly is; but on the right fide of the body it is left in its place, where the obliquity of its fibres is well feen, and where the chief points of the deicription are fulfilled in the drawing, viz. that the chief belly of the Obliquus Internus is at the Iliac Spine, that the central fibres only are jdireft, going acrofs the Abdomen to the Linea Alba 5 and that the higher fibres S afcend >CF THE MUSCLES. afcend towards the Sternum, while the lower ones go obliquely downwards to the Pubis. This is the mufcle which gives that mufcular covering of the Spermatic Cord, ftrong in animals, though weak in man, which is named Cremafter. The tefticle of the right fide is torn up from the Scrotum, and thrown out upon the thigh, that the conne&ion of the Spermatic Cord with this the Internal Oblique Mufcle, might be feen; and although it could not be diftin&ly exprefted in fo fmall a figure, without exaggerating and departing from the true drawing, yet there is a conical form of the. Spermatic Cord at its upper end, which lliows where the Cremafter Mufcle joins it. TheTransversalis Abdominis, ('145.) is feen on the left fide. It looks at firft fight much like the Internal Oblique, but it is to be remembered, that the Internal Ob- lique of this fide (144.) is thrown down over the thigh. The Transverse fends aft its fibres direclly acrofs the Abdomen; and it is feen to belong to the inner furface of the Thorax, as much as the External Oblique Mufcle belongs to- the outer furface of it. (a a) Reprefent the place where the flefli of this mufcle ends, and the tendon begins ; and the tendon at this- point is ftrongly attached to tire tendon of the inner Oblique Mufcle. The letters (a «,) mark the edge where the two thin tendons adhere to form the fheath for the Rectus Muscee ; the letter (b) is placed in the fheath itfelf; the fheath is feen again on the left fide empty, and marked (3 1), with the bowels of the Abdomen firinning through the back part of the fheath, which though very denfe and ftrong, is yet thin and alnroft tranfparent.. But at the lower part (c),. it is lefs perfect, or rather is wanting ; the thinner, membrane of the Peritoneum only being found there. 4-;. Tire Rectus Abdominis, (146.) of the left fide remains in its place j it is differed on its fore-part, fo' as to flrow the tendinous interfe£iions (dd), where the fore- part of the fheath adheres; but at the back, of the fheath, (J. e.) at (£) there are. no fuch adlrefions, and though the Redtus is fo attached at the fore-part, as to be veryBOOK SECOND, PLATE NINTH. 13^ very difficultly directed; it lies at its back part fo loofely, that it is eafily turned out of its fheath with the point of the finger, or the handle of the differing knife* The Rectus Abdominis of the right fide, (146.) is thrown down like a (trap over the thigh, fo fully that its tendon by which it is fixed into the Pubis is feen, but not very diftinflly here, becaufe the tendon is fmall, when the Pyramidal Mufcles are found, as in this fubjeft. The Pyramidal Muscles, (147.) which are as Supplementary Mufcles, are feen fully differed, with neat, fmall, and flefhy bellies, of a very regular Triangular form 5 the bafe of the Triangle being the origin of the mufcle from the Pubis j the Apex of the Triangle being its infertion into the Linea Alba, and the mark (*Ji is put upon the place of the Symphifis Pubis. S § HATE/&00K. SECOND, PLATE TENTH. PLATE X. This Plate explaint the Text Book, from Page 3Z3, to Page 328, This drawing explains the Diaphragm in a general wayfhowing how it hands, “ as a Tranfverfe Partition betwixt the Abdomen and the “ Thorax;” and how, by its feveral openings, it permits the Veins, Arteries, and great nerves of the Vifcera, to pafs from the one cavity to the other; but hill it is reprefented here only in a general way ; and though its openings are explained, it is rather with the intention of fhowing their places, and their relation to each other, than with any , intention of defcribing their particular form; which is more accurately delivered in the next plate, (1.) Is the upper mufcle of the Diaphragm. This upper and greater mufcle rifes from the inner furface of the Thorax; and befides this origin from the ribs and Sternum, there is alfo another origin, viz. from the Ligamentum Arcuatum (*), which ligament is of an arched form, eroding the roots of the Quadratus Lumborum, (”125.) and of the Psoas Magnus (157.); fo that the greater or upper mufcle of the Diaphragm rifes from all the border of the Thorax upon its inner furface, and from this Ligamentum Arcuatum. 3 {2.) The142. $>** THE MUSCLES. f2.) The Lower or Posterior Muscle of the Diaphragm rifes from the loins by fmall tendinous heads, which are hidden here by the Aorta (a) paffing over them ; but the fiefhy part of this lower mufcle is feen with fibres clofely furround- ing and embracing the CEfophagus. (3.) The Middle Tendon is feen, but I do not enter upon the detail, nor pretend to reprefent the crofting of the Tendinous Fibres in this general drawing. Thus is the Diaphragm, compofed of one great and circular mufcle before, of one fmaller circular mufcle behind, and of the triangular tendon betwixt them ; and, both in its fiefhy and tendinous parts, it is perforated by feveral veffels, paffing reciprocally between the Thorax and the Abdomen. Firft, (a) the Aorta, the great artery of the trunk, paffes betwixt the Crura, or legs of the Diaphragm, which like an arch ftrides over it to defend it from pref- fure. Secondly, The CEsophagus (5), which paffes through the Diaphragm, a little above the Aorta, and a little towards the left fide. Its pafiage is by the hole (£) through the lower fleftiy belly, and through the mod fiefhy part of the Diaphragm, and the mufcular fibres of the Crura Diaphragmatis firft crofs under the hole for the CEfophagus. They furround it, then crofs again above the hole, fo that they form the figure of 8 ; and the CEfophagus is fo apparently ccmpafled by thefe furrounding fibres, that fome anatomifts have reckoned this a fort of Sphincter for the upper orifice of the ftomach. Thirdly, The Great Vena Cava ; (V) (both that branch of the Great Vena Cava, which belongs to the Liver, and that alfo, which comes from the lower extremity) goes up to the right fide of the heart, through the right fide of the Diaphragm by the hole (c)} where a part of this great vein is feen hanging down with a flaccid and open mouth ; and this hole (c), being of a triangular form, paffing in the hard tendon, and being larger than the vein requires, there is no danger of the vein being ftrangulated. Is 2143 book: second, plate tenth. (d) Is the Left Kidney. (e) Is the Cellular Subftance in the loins, in which, the right kidney lies, the kid- ney of that fide being torn away. 00 Is the Bifurcation of the Aorta a little above the top of the Sacrum, and (§•) the two Iliac arteries. (159.) Is the Iliacus Internus Muscle, and (£) {hows the manner in which the Ilia- cus Internus, Pfoas Magnus, and Femoral Artery, come out from under the Femorai Ligament. The anatomy of the Diaphragm is continued in the next plate. \ PLATE\ \ > • ? !• HBOOK SECOND, PLATE ELEVENTH. 145 PLATE XI. This Plate explains the Text Booh, from Page 3^5* ^aSe 335* This plate confifts of plans of the Diaphragm, and Parts of Generation, The firft figure is a drawing of the Diaphragm, neatly difledled and taken out of the body; explaining all its origins, and all its holes more cor- rectly than plate x. The fecond figure is rather a plan than a drawing, and may be very ufeful to the young anatomift, in giving him correct notions of the general form of the Diaphragm, how it Hand? flaunting upon the whole; convex towards the cheft, concave towards the belly, and moving (as it may eafily be conceived by this drawing,) fo as to perform ref- piration, and all the lefler functions that depend upon it. And the third figure explains the mufcles which belong to the parts of Ge- neration. This is by no means a plan merely, as might be conceived from the formal fhapes of thefe mufcles, but a true drawing after feve- ral careful difledtions, where, though the parts feem formal, they are really natural, not exaggerated nor caricatured, but delivered fairly and honeftly as they mull always be feen after a right difiedtion. And they are expofed in fuch a pofture, as by its correfpondence with that T for146 OF THE MUSCLES. four for Lithotomy will at once convey a leflon of furgery, while it gives correct and true ideas of thefe parts. FIGURE I. DRAWING OF THE DIAPHRAGM. The parts pointed out along with the Diaphragm marked (145.) are parts of the Tranfverfe mufcles of the Abdomen, which, being internal mufcles and riling from the inner furface of the Thorax, have their tongue-like origins (nr a a), which come from the ribs, mixed confufedly with (b b b), the tongue-like origins of the great mufcle of the Diaphragm, which tongue-like origins (b b~) come from the fame ribs ; and it was from this connexion with the two Tranfverfe Mufcles of the Abdomen, that the Diaphragm was once reckoned a Trigaftric Mufcle; V^id. Book of the Mufcles, page 315. (1.) The greater, or upper mufcle of the Diaphragm, has thefe five origins ; on both > ^ b fides (iditd) mark the flelh which rifes from the ribs, from the inner furface of the Thorax, indigitated with the origins of the Tranfverfe Mufcle; (e e) mark the two backmoft portions of the great Anterior Mufcle, and thefe two portions rife from the two Ligaipenta Arcuata, which flretch over the origins of the Quadratus Lumborum and Psoas Mufcles. And (y) marks a fifth portion of the greater mufcle, which rifes from the inner furface of the Sternum and Xiphoid Cartilage. (2.) The lefier mufcle rifes by four tendinous feet from the fore-part of the Lumbar Vertebrae ; and thefe, the Crura Diaphragmatis (gg), which furround the trunk of the Aorta, and their tendinous feet (hhh) are very fairly reprefented here, for they are not nicely cut and pared into diftinft feet, but are reprefented as they are taken up from the face of the Lumbar Vertebrae ; that is, not in the fliape of 3BOOK SECOND, PLATE ELEVENTH. 147 four diftiudl tendons, but adhering to each other in the form of a fort of denfe ten- dinous membrane, very white and gliftening ; forming a fort of ftieath over the fore-parts of the Vertebrae ; having flat firings, which are thicker and ftronger, and more brilliant than the others ; but not to be. feparated (without violence1*, into the fhapes of diftindl feet. The tendinous feet of the Diaphragm (h h~), unite into the Crura at (gg), and the two Crura, growing gradually more flefhy, form at (it) the Pofterior Mufcle of the Diaphragm ; and it is here, that the fibres of ffiis pofterior or lefler mufcle crofs and mix, and furround the hole for the (Efophagus, with thofe fibres, which by their crofting, defcribe irregularly the figure of eight ; and by their comprefling the (Efophagus form a fort of Sphindter. (3.) The Central Tendon is compofed of fibres, “ which come from the vari- “ ous Fafciculi of this mufcle, and meet and crofs each other with a confufed in- <f ter-lacement which Albums has been at much pains to trace, but which Haller de- “ fcribes much more fenfibly, as Intricationes variae, et vix dicendse ; irregular and “ confufed crofting chiefly at the openings, and efpecially at the Vena Cava, the <c triangular form of which feeins to be guarded in a moft particular way.” Vid. book, page J27. And the figure (3, 3.) is repeated upon the furface of the tendon, to Ihow the various Fafciculae of the tendinous fibres, which are truely “ varise et “ vix dicendse,” and which it were not only difficult, but ufelefs to defcribe. (i) Is the Aorta, where it comes out from the Thorax into the Abdomen ; it is here flaccid, and uninjedted. Its firft branches, vi*. the Cseliac, and upper Mefenteric Arteries are feen going off at this point. It was drawn afide to ihow the hole through which it pafies, and was fixed fo by a pin. (iy Is the hole, by which the (Efophagus pafles, left empty. (m) Is the hole, by which the Vena Cava pafles through the tendinous center of the Diaphragm. T a la148 OF THE MUSCLES, FIGURE II. In this Figure, the Diaphragm is drawn in a new pofture ; for the trunk (viz. the Pel- vis and Thorax, with the intermediate Vertebrae of the loins) is fet almoft upright. And fir ft, the Convexity of the Diaphragm, towards the Thorax (a), ftiould be ob- ferved. Secondly, the obliquity of the Diaphragm ftnould be obferved; its greater mufcle riling from all the borders of the Thorax, as at (b b), while its Crura and tendinous feet rife near the top of the Pelvis, from the loweft Vertebra of the loins.- Thirdly, the true appearance of the tendinous feet is marked, the longeft lying in the middle, and the Ihorter ones being more to the fide ; fo that (r), the longeft one, lies fair upon the fore-part of the Vertebra of the loins, and rifes almoft from the loweft Vertebra; while the Ihorteft one (d) rifes from the Tranfverfe Procefs ox the fourth Vertebra of the loins. FIGURE III. The third figure of this plate explains the mufcles of the parts of generation, the hips and thighs being prefented as in the operation of Lithotomy. For the full explanation of thefe mufcles, the ftudent muft turn to the Book of the Mufcles, chapter vii. page 329. where he will find that, (1.) The Erector Penis (150.) is a delicate and flender mufcle about two inches in length, rifing from the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium (a) ; lying along the root of the Crus Penis, where it is fmalleft; inferted into the Crus Penis j being very fmall, and almoft pointed both at its origin, and at its infertion *. (2.) The * Haller will not allow this mufcle the name of Ere&or; he fays it does not draw the Penis back to the Pubis, but that its office rather is to deprefs the Penis, and hold it down to the proper angle, forI49 BOOK SECOND, PLATE ELEVENTH. (2.) The Transversalis Perinali, (151.) rifes along with the Eredtor; from the Tu- ber Ifchii (a), it croffes the deep hollow which is betwixt the Ifchium and the Anus ; and is fixed into the backmoft point of the bulb of the Urethra. OO The Accelerator Urinal, (152.) is a double mufcle ; or a pair of mufcles one ly- ing upon each fide of the bulb of the Urethra, fo that the whole fairly furrounds the bulb. And indeed this tumor of the bulb feems chiefly formed to favour the a&ion of the Accelerator Mufcle ; and the two flender and horn-like tendons of the Accele- rator are feen plainly turning off from the cavernous body of the Urethra (b) to go out upon the cavernous body of the Crus Penis (e), by which hold it plays more powerfully upon the bulb. We feel the a&ions of this mufcle very plainly in the throwing out of the laft drops of urine, as well as in the ejaculation of the Semen , and its great power of throwing the Semen to a diftance has been afcertained by ex- periments, fuch as Ihould not be repeated, nor mentioned, indeed, except in that language in which they were told. “ Conftat enim per experimenta, ob turpitudinem “ non repetenda, multo longius femen de fano et dudum cafto homine profelire u quam abeft uterus.” The Sphincter Ani (153.), is feen furrounding the open- ing of the Anus. Wounds of thefe mufcles are attended with no degree of danger, nor followed by any kind of incapacity, but yet it is very manifeft, that fince the incifions for Lithoto- my Ihould be made in one regular and uniform line, thefe mufcles will be cut by every dextrous operator in one certain way and the naming them wrong mull be a mark either of ignorance of thefe parts, or at the leaft, of a bad irregular operation. Now, as the aim of the Lithotomill is to get into the bladder by that great hollow which lies betwixt the Tuberofity of the Os ifchium (a), and the Anus (J) ; the incifion mull pafs exa£lly in the middle betwixt the Tuber and the Anus. for entering the Vagina. What a pity it is that the illuftrious author had not afcertained this curious angle ! for we Ihould naturally conceive, at leaft from what we fee after our injedtions, that the Penis when in full eredtion, ftood up to the Pubis as clofe as it could lie.T5° OF THE MUSCLES. Anus. The Tranfverfalis Perinsei mull be fairly cut acrofs ; the Accelerator will be fpared ; the Eredlor cannot be cut; and the operator who cuts the Accele- rator, keeps his knife too near the Anus, and wounds the bulb. The operator who fpeaks of cutting the Eredlor, either mull be very ignorant of this fame Erec- tor, or mull intend to cut upon the Tuberofity of the Ifchium, hoping perhaps to cut through the bone : But what Ihall we think of a furgeon, who fpeaks about things of this kind fo loofely, as to talk of cutting both the Eredtor and the Acce- lerator Mufcle ; that is of cutting both that mufcle which lies on the outlide of the common incilion, and alfo that one which lies on the inlide of the common incilion ? After reading this in any author, one might be inclined to turn backwards a page or two, to fee whether he made an incifion like that of Celfus; viz. in the Ihape of a half-moon. PLATEBOOK SECOND, PLATE TWELFTH. I5T PLATE XII. This Plate and the next explain the "Text Book, from Page 336, to Page 384. OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. In this plate are explained the chief mufcles of the Thigh, Leg, and Foot. The limb is hung by a rope, the foot fwinging in the air, the ball of the great toe touching the ground. The leg is prefented twice. In a fore view fhewing the great fafcia of the thigh difle&ed back, and the muf- cles naked, Fig. i. And again, in a back view, Fig. ii. fhewing the cavity of the Pelvis; the hollow betwixt the Ham-ftring mufcles, and the bellies of the Gaftrocnaemii with the great Achilles Tendon. The explanations cannot be orderly, and therefore they- fhould bo ihort. In Figure I. (a) marks the Spine of the Ilium ; (b) the creft of the Pubis ; (c) the liga- ment of Paupart which runs betwixt thefe two points ; (d) the Femoral artery paf- fing under the ligament. The mufcles which appear on the fore-part of the thigh are thefe. The Rectus (171.) lying in the middle of the thigh, having a white and tendinous part in the center, and the flefliy fibres going in towards it. TheOF THE MUSCLES. 153 The Vastus Externus (173*) making all the flelh on the the outfide of the thigh. The Vastus Internus (174.) making that culhion of flelh, which is fo prominent upon the inner fide of the knee joint, and which makes fo particular a mark in the drawings of the thigh : and all thefe three nrufcles, viz., the Reclus, Vaftus Exter- nus, and Vaftus Internus, are inferted together into the Patella, which is marked (<). Then the Sartorius 175.) is feen riling from the higheft point of the Os Ilium ; crof- fing the thigh, long and llender like a ftrap, and bending down the Vaftus Internus. Mufcle. The head of the Gracilis (176.1 where it rifes from the Pubis is here feen ;—next to that is feen the firft head of the Triceps (161.) ; and next to that the Pectinalis (160.) with the artery of the thigh lying flat upon its belly. Thefe are the chief mufcles on the fore part of the thigh 5 they are naturally covered with the Fascia, or broad tendinous expanfion, marked (f), and the Fascialis Muscle, which, from its making this vagina tenfe, is named Tenfor Vaginae Femoris ; is marked with its appropriated number (136.), and is drawn out along with the fafcia, and is feen riling from the fame point of the Os Ilium, from which the Sar- torius rifes. In the Leg, (g) marks the Tibia j and the mufcles are. The Gastrocnemius, (181.) The ^Tibialis Anticus (187.), which comes from the fore part of the Tibia, crofles the ancle obliquely, goes over the fide of the foot to be implanted into the root of the great toe; and this is the tendon which makes that lharp angle on the fore-part of the ancle where the buckle lies. The Extensor Pollicis (i 96.) lies next to the Tibialis, and its tendon pafles like that of the Tibialis Anticus under the Annular Ligament of the ancle, which is marked (&) ; and next to the Extenfor Pollicis lies the Extensor Longus Digitorum Pedis (193.) which lies deeper ftill, and more towards the outfide of the.leg. Its tendons are feen going out to each of the toes, and thefe tendons are accompanied with the 3 tendonsBOOK SECOND, PLATE TWELFTH. I53 U The tendons of the little mufcle the Extensor. Brevis Digitorum Pedis (195.)? which is feen lying under the tendons of the long mufcle. Behind the Extenfor Digitorum, and hiding it in part, is the Peroneus Longus Mufcle ('184.), which belongs to the brawn of the Leg, and the tendon of which pafies down behind the outer ancle. In the foot, Fig. II. lying under this one, is explained the Plantar Aponeurofis, or that fafcia which belongs to the foie of the foot; and which is defcribed in the Book of Mufcles, page 382. It is feen here to coniift of three general divifions, the middle one (7), the lateral one f/£) on the outfide, which covers the Flexor, and the Abdudtor Minimi Digiti; and the lateral one (/) on the infide, which covers the Flexor and the Abduclor Pollicis. The general Fafcia where it covers the thigh is marked (f), but it is merely a con- tinuation of the fame fafcia that covers the leg ; and where it covers the leg it is marked (*) ; and it is Hill the fame fafcia which being continued over the fore-part of the foot, is there ilrengthened by its adhefion to the outer and inner ancles, by which, taking a new form it becomes the Annular Ligament, fo that the Annular Ligament is merely a llrengthening of the common fafcia. FIGURE III. This view fhows chiefly the mufcles upon the back part of the thigh and leg. Th& Vertical Seftion of the Os Sacrum is marked (m) ; the hollow of the Pelvis is marked («) ; the Vertical Seftion of the Os Pubis is marked (0) ; and the letter G>) is put down upon the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium, which could not be clear- ly marked. And the mufcles are. The Psoas Magnus (157.) ; croffing the brim of the Pelvis, to go down into the thigh. The Gracilis (176.), which is feen coming from the arch of the Pubis, and going down to be inferted by a delicate and flender tendon, into the head of the Tibia,ICJ4 OF THE MUSCLES. The firft and fecor.d heads of the Triceps, (161.) are feen from behind. The Semi-membranosus (178.) is next feen ; but the whole of it is not feennothing 13 bare here but the middle and lower parts of the mufcle ; but there is enough of it to {how that it is not as its name imports, a mufcle having a membranous appearance, it has on the contrary a very thick fleftiy belly. The Semi-tendinosus (177-) is next to it, and the reafon of its being named Semi-tendi- nofus is feen in the length of its tendon (y). The Semi-membranofus and the Semi- tendinofus form together the inner ham-ftring. The outer ham-ftring is formed by the Tendon of the Biceps Cruris Mufcle; and the belly of the Biceps (180.) is feen held out by three flicks, fo as to fhow the deep hollow betwixt the ham-ftring3, in which is feen hanging the great Sacro-Sciatic Nerve (r); where it is going down the back of the thigh, to pafs down under the heads of the Gaftrocnemii Mufcles. The Great Gluteus Muscle (163.) is feen upon the hip diffedled, fo as to fhow the order of its fibres, and hanging like the reft of the leg all loofe and flaccid. The Vastus Internus (174.) is alfo feen making a fleftiy belly juft over the knee-joint. The two bellies of the Gastrocnemius Muscle (181.) are feea rifing each from its own Condyle of the thigh bone at (n), and meeting together to be joined into the great Achillis tendon (t) ; which grows gradually fmaller as it goes downwards to be im- planted into the heel at (V), where ftill it is very thick and ftrong. The great belly and tendon of the Flexor Pollicis (188.) is alfo feen palling behind the inner ancle. A part of the belly of the SoLiEUS (182.) is feen lying under the belly of the Gaftro- cnemius. The foot in this drawing, is left covered with ikin, and puffed, and ill fhaped, as it naturally is, while under diflectioru "* * \ y ' . * ■> • . V , r* PLATE I3.0OK SECOND, PLATE THIRTEENTH. If* rl OS PLATE XIII. This Plate explains the Text Booh, from Page 336, to Page 384. Shows the deeper mufcles of the Thigh, Leg, and Foot, alfo in two drawings; one reprefenting the fore, and the other the back-parts of the leg. This is a fuller diffedtion than the laft, fo that it differs great- ly in general appearance from the laft drawing, but Hill the general pofttion is exadlly the fame. In Figure I. are feen-, The Glut^eus Maximus (163.) now differed, and cut away from its origin in the' haunch bone, left at its infertion into the thigh bone. It is hung out by a firing, and the fhape, which it falls into, fnows that it is one of the heaviefl and flefhiefl mufcles in the bodjr ; a part of the Glutseus Medius (164.) is feen under it. The Rectus Femoris (171.) is now cut away, and nothing of it is left here, but its origin from the Spinous Procefs marked (a) ; and its infertion into the Patella, which is marked (Z>) is thrown down and left hanging. By the throwing down of the Rectus Femoris, the great mafs of the Crurieus (1^2.) which lies under it is expofed, and it is feen that the Crurseus confifts partly of tendon, partly of fiefh, extends all along the thigh, rifes from the thigh bone, lies immediately under the Re£lus, and is infer ted along with it into the Patella ; and here the Vastus Ex-ter- U 2. NUS-156 OF THE muscles. nus (173.) is feen in its place. The Vastus Internus (174.) is gut and thrown down, and left hanging over the knee like the ReCtus. The Sartorius (175.) is alfo cut away from the Ilium, and left hanging down along the leg. The Fascialis (156.) is feen here alfo with a rag of its fafcia conne&ed with it. The Psoas Magnus (157.) which comes from the fides of the Lumbar Vertebrae, and the Iliacus Internus (159.) which comes from the infide of the haunch bone, are'* feen turning over the fore-part of the Pelvis together to go down through among the flelh of the thigh, to the lefier or inner Trochanter of the thigh bone. The Pectinalis (160.) is feen rifing from the Pubis, and ftretching flat and direCt to- wards the thigh bone. The Triceps Longus marked (1.), as it is the firft head of the Triceps Femoris, (161.) is feen here thick, and flelhy. This covers the other two heads of the Triceps, viz. the Triceps Brevis, and Triceps Magnus; the edge of the Triceps Magnus, or third head of the Triceps, is feen here, (3.) ; but the Triceps Brevis or fecond head of the Triceps is here entirely covered by the PeCtinalis and Triceps Longus, and is feen only in the fecond drawing, where it is marked (2.) The mufcles on the back-parts of the hip and thigh, are explained in figures ii. and iii.fv. In Figure II. we have the Glutjeus Maximus (163.) hung out by a firing as in the other drawing. The Psoas Magnus (157.) croffing the brim of the Pelvis as in the former drawings ; the Triceps Longus marked (1.) defcending from the Pubis, to the mid- dle of the thigh bone ; behind that is feen the Triceps Brevis, vel fecundus, (2.) the fecond head of the Triceps, which is held as a part of the fame mufcle, though it lies behind the firft, and is of a different layer; and behind that ftill lies the Triceps Magnus (3.), which has alfo very little connection with the other heads, but it is called the third bead of the Triceps ; and there is feen the Femoral Artery marked (c) palling through the Triceps Magnus from the fore to the back part of the thigh 5 the artery is marked (c), and the tendon of the Triceps Magnus, where it is implant- edBOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRTEENTH. I37 ed ifito the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, is marked (d) ; fo that the artery paffes through the Triceps from the fore to the back part of the thigh, only a little above the knee. The root of the Semi-membranofils (178.) is feen at (e), where it rifes by a thick and flefhy head from the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium; the lower end of it where it is attached to the head of the Tibia is cut, and hangs down at (/). The oppofite Ham-ftring Mufcle the Biceps (180.) is feen ; its bellies are marked with the proper number of the mufcle. Its longer head is feen riling in common with the Semi-membranofuS from the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium at (g) ; the longer head is marked (g), but the Ihorter head of the Biceps which rifes from the back of the thigh bone, is marked (Z>) ; the place where the long and the Ihort heads of the Biceps Femoris unite and mix their fibres is marked (i) ; and the tendon of the Biceps which forms the outer ham-ftring is marked (£). All the ham, or the back part of the knee-joint, is now expofed by the throwing dowa. of the conjoined mufcles, :_the Gastrocnemius Externus (181.) and the Sol^eus, (182.) which are left only at their infertion by the great Achillis Tendon (/), which is fixed into the heel bone; and the Gaftrocnemius and Solaeus being thu3 thrown dowrn, the two curious mufcles which lie in the ham are expofed, viz. the Plantaris (183.) which rifes from the outer Coadyle of the Os Femoris, has a very fmall delicate flelhy belly, like that of the Palmaris Longus. It has alfo a fmall round tendon like it, the fmallell and longelt in the body, not grofler than a fiddle-ftring ; which going down along the inner furface of the GaftrocnEemius, and making an imprefiion upon the inner furface of the great Achillis Tendon, accompanies it to the heel, where it is implanted along with it. The other fmall mufcle is the proper mufcle of the ham, which is thence named Mus- culus Poplitahus It is a beautiful triangular mufcle, which lies exaftly upon the back part of the joint as a fort of guard to the Capfule, and like a check band for fupporting the knee. It comes from the outer Condyle along with the littleOF THE MUSCLES. I5& little belly of the Plantarls, crofles the joint with oblique fibres ; comes from the Condyle of the thigh bone; is inferted into the back of the Tibia, and fo bends the knee. In the legs of both drawings, the following deep feated mufcles are feen. In the firft leg, the deep mufcles of the toes which lie under the Tibialis Anticus, and they are all extenfors of the toes. In the fecond leg the deep mufcles which lie under the ( Gaftrocnemius and Solaeus ; and they are all flexors of the toes. In Figure I. is feen ([m), the place upon the fore-part of the Tibia, from which the flelhy belly of the Tieialis Anticus is cut away, fo that the next mufcle the Extensor Follicis (196.) is feen, which is a long, penniform, and very ftrong mufcle ; and its long tendon is feen going to the great toe. Behind that again, lies the Extensor Longjjs Digitorum Pedis ('193.J, which has its flelhy belly lying behind the Extenfor Pollicis ; and its four tendons are railed over one leg of the compafles, fo as to expofe the fliort flexor which lies beneath, uporr that part of the foot where the buckle refts ; and which is feen beginning by a fmall head (ti), from the heel bone. Behind the Extenfor Digitorum lies a third mufcle, which is like a flip of the Extenfor, but its tendon does not run into the toes. It is fixed into the fide cf the foot at the root of the little toe, it is therefore a bender of the foot, and from its riling from the Fibula, Is named Peroneus Tertius (194.) And Laftly, in this figure, a part of the PeRoneus Longus (T84.J is feen, a mufcle which rightly belongs to the other fide of the leg, and the tendon of whick. pafifes behind the outer ancle, to go down into the foie of the foot. In Figure II. are feen, in like manner, all the long flexors of the toes and foot. Firft the Tibialis Posticus (186.) begins with a ftrong fifcfhy belly upon the back part of the Tibia ; is penniform like moft of thefe long mufcles of the leg ; and fends a long tendon doivn behind the inner ancle, which runs in a particular ring of the Ligaments that are behind the ancle ; and, getting into the foie of the foot, is fixed; hy many fpreading roots into the feveral bones of the Tarfus. The:Rook SECOND, plate THIRTEENTH. 159 The FleXor Longus Digitorum Pedis {183.) lies immediately behind this; is like it in all points ; lends its long (lender tendon down alio behind the ancle in its own peculiar ring, but, palling the bones of the Tarfus, it divides into four tendons, which go to each of the leflfer toes. The Flexor Longus Pollicis Pedis (188.) is the appropriated mufcle of the great toe. It has a large fle(hy belly, a very llrong big tendon, and runs by the inner ancle in its own peculiar ring. Now it is to be noticed, that this Flexor Pollicis, though the flexor only of one Angle toe, is much bigger than the common flexor of all the toes. It is even bigger than both thefe, or the Tibialis Pofticus, which is the great mufcle of the foot. The meaning of which is very plain ; viz. that thefe mufcles of the toes are to be confidered not fo much as mere benders of the toes ; for when we obferve how little the toes move, and how much walking confifts in rifing upon the ball of the grea4 toe, we (hall regard thefe mufcles rather as benders of the whole foot. It is by the power of thefe mufcles, that we beat the ground in each ftep in walking, for in walking each pufh in carrying the body is made by the prefting of the ball of the great toe againll the ground; and thefe mufcles all prefs down the ball of the great toe. In making the ftep, thefe flexor mufcles of the toe, and foot, are chiefly aflifted by a mufcle belonging to the other fide of the leg, I mean the Pe- roneus Longus (184.), which rifes not like thefe, from the back of the Tibia, to pafs behind the inner ancle, but from the whole length of the Fibula, whence it's name of Peroneus, and pafies down in a ring behind the outer ancle ; and this llrong tendon which makes the (harpnefs behind the outer ancle, and gives (hape to the leg, is here drawn out with a firing juft where it is defcending into its Iheath or ring. Thus all the mufcles which bend the foot, and fo taife the body at each ftep, are dif- tindlly feen in this difledtion ; viz. The Gastrocnemius (181.) the Solieus (182.) and the Plantaris (183.); the Tibialis Posticus (i8<») Flexor Digitorum (189.) Flexor Pollicis (188.) and Peroneus Longus. (184.) There is but one more, the a Peroneusl5o OF THE MUSCLES. Peroneus Brevis, which is fo exaClly like the Peroneus Longns, that its not being feen in this view, is hardly an imperfection, the demonllration being fufficiently full. The foot is differed in Figure iii. where is feen firfl the lhort Flexor, the Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis (191.), cut up from the heel bone where it has its origin ; its flelhy belly is thrown out; its lhort neat tendons are going to each of the toes ; its ten- dons are perforated like thofe of the hand, for the tranfmiflion of the tendons of the long Flexor. The tendons of the long Flexor are marked (0) ; they are feen going forwards to thread the loops, made by the lhort tendons ; and there is feen conneCled with the long Flexor that lhort fupplementary mufcle which comes from the heel bone, and which being irregular in its form, is called the Mass a Carnea Jacobi Silvii (190.). The Lumbricales are too delicate to be feen in a fmall drawing like this, but they are ealily found in diflection, for they are like a continuation of the Mafia Carnea lying in the forks of the tendons. The tendon of the long Flexor of the great toe is feen here (p), efcaping from under the inner ancle, and appearing upon the foie of the foot ; and it is feen to be con- nected here (by a fmall flip of tendon) with the long Flexor of all the toes. This tendon of the long Flexor of the great toe is feen to pafs betwixt the two heads of the lhort flexor, which is marked with its proper number (191.) The AbduCtor of the little toe is alfo feen. There remain to be explained, certain mufcles which immediately furround the hip joint; and which are defcribed in the book from page 347, to 352. The Trochanters are fo named, becaufe they are placed .fo that moll of the mufclea which are implanted into them, at the lame time that they bend the thigh, turn, it alfo. Tbefe mufcles are explained by figure iv. The Pelvis is hung up by a rope, put round the Lumbar Vertebrae ; and the points of bone to be obferved as explaining, the pofture are, (j) the line of the Os Sacrum, and Os Coccygis; (r) the tuberofity ©f x.\ I .t A rBOOK SECOND, PLATE THIRTEENTH. i b £• of the Os Ifchium ; (s) the Sacro-Sciatic Ligament palling from the Sacrum, to the Ifchium; (t) the Spine of the Ilium ; (u) the great Trochanter of the Thigh Bone ; and (y') the lhaft of the fame bone. And the mufcles that are feen are. First, the Gluteus Medius (164.) cut'away from its origin, which is from the Os Ilium at (v) ; the great Glutseus, which rifes from the Sacrum and Ilium,, from (g) to (t) being cut entirely away. The middle Glutseus (164.) is feen to be implanted into the very Apex of the Trochanter ; the Gluteus Minimus (165.) which lies under it, rifes again from that part of the Os Ilium that forms the focket for the Thigh Bone ; and is of courfe the deepeft, and the fmalleft of thefe mufcles. Behind the Gluteus Minimus is feen the Pyriformis (168.); and the reafon of its name, taken from its Pyramidal form, is well explained; and its broad thin belly is feen coming from the hollow of the Sacrum within the Cavity of the Pelvis ; and its fmall flat tendon is feen inferted into the root of the Trochanter Major. The Quadratus Femoris, (170.) a fhort and fquare mufcle is feen coming from the tuberofity of the Os Ifchium, and implanted into the greater Trochanter. The mufcles, named Marfupiales, are feen going into the Trochanter at the point marked (y') and I do not put their right numbers (166.) (167.) upon them, left it fhould confound fo fmall a drawing. Befides, it will be eafily enough under- stood, that the white tendon, marked (j/), is the tendon of the Obturator Inter- ims, which comes from within the Pelvis, turning over the tuberofity of the Os Ifchium; and the little flelhy flips above and' below this white tendon, and inclof- ing it upon either fide, are the Gemini Muscles (166.) (167.), one above, another below the Obturator Xnternus, and all the three inferted together into the root of the Trochanter at the point (j/). A part of the Triceps Femoris is marked (161.) ; the heads of the Biceps, and of the Semi-tendinofus, and Semi-membranofus X where162 OF THE MUSCLES. where they all three rife together from the tuberofity of the Os Ifchium, "have the mark of the Biceps only, which is (180.) The Sacro-Sciatic Nerve, where it comes out from the cavity of the Pelvis, along with the Pyriform Mufcle, is marked (zTHIRD BOOK. OF TIIE JOINTSD T H I R o B K O OP THE o I N T this book feem fliort, it is becaufe I have omitted many joints, which it is decent and proper for the profeffed anatomift to be acquainted with, but which it were very fuperfiuous to trouble the ftudent about, for the fubjedt is hardly even curious, and certainly not ufeful. Therefore 1 have made a fuller defcription of the Ihoulder, knee, and hip; ard have refrained from giving any drawings of the joints of the head, of the Vertebrae, or of the ribs; for thefe joints are not eafily under- llood, are hardly worth remembering, and are very foon forgotten. It was natural for me to be afraid left the hiflory and drawings of thefe joints might fwell the book, making it more expenfive, and lefs ufeful. PLATEj6 6 OF THE JOINTS. PLATE I. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 4ZJ, to Page 439, Explains the Shoulder Joint, Elbow, and Wrift. FIGURE I. IT I S the fhoulder joint which was fet up for this drawing, the whole piece of anatomy refting upon the lower angle of the Scapula, and upon the cut end of the Os Humeri. The marked points by which the mufcles and the joint are explained, are thefe chiefly : («) The Clavicle ; the letter (o') is placed on the middle of the bone, where it projects in the collar or root of the neck; (7>) is the end next the Sternum with fome ragged flelh hanging from it; (r) is the flat end by which it touches the point of the Acromion Procefs ; (d) marks the Acromion Procefs where the Clavicle is joined to it; and (e) is the point or apex of the Coracoid Procefs. (f) Marks that line of the Scapula which is called its bafe, and it, like the Clavicle, has the remains of its ragged mufcle hanging down from it. And laftly, (g) is the Os Humeri. The mufcles which are feen here are. The Subscapularis (77.J covering the whole of the Lower Surface of the Scapula, and better explained than in the fmaller drawings for the mufcles of the arm. A fmall part of the Supra-spinatus (73.J is alfo feen. TheBOOK THIRD, PLATE FIRST. l6j The Biceps (78.) is marked in the bellies with its proper number, and its two heads are alfo marked; the fhorter head (b) riling from the Coracoid Procefs ; and the longer head (7), coming down from within the cavity of the joint. The Coraco-Brachialis ("72*), is feen hanging down loofe and flaccid, from the Cora- coid Procefs, and palling obliquely under the two heads of the Biceps ; to be fixed into the arm bone. The Deltoides (71.) is cut away from the Scapula and turned backwards, and it hangs over the arm bone very thick and rnaffy. And this white and fhining ap- pearance upon the inner furface of the Deltoides is from the Cellular Subftance which lies under it being condenfed into fomewhat of the form of a fafcia. And it is from this fafcia, that one of the great Burke Mucofae belonging to this joint rifes. The flelh of the Deltoid is feen at (b), and the fafcia, covering the face of the muf.le, is marked with the number (71.J And lallly, the Latissimus Dorsi ("70.) is feen cut off about fix inches from its infertion into the Ihoulder bone, and left hanging there. (kk~) Wherever they are found, denote the fat which lies in the interftices of the mufcles, and which Ihould not be too curioufly picked away in any part of a difledtion, unlefs it be neceflary for making fome important part very clean and diltindt. The parts more immediately belonging to the joint are thefe. 1. The Acromion Procefs (d) overhangs the joint from above, and prevents luxations upwards. 2. The Coracoid Procefs (e) Hands up on the infide of the arm, to ftrengthen the joint in that diredlion alfo. 3. The Ligamentum Proprium Triangulare Scapula: (m) crofles from the Ac- romion to the Coracoid Procefs, makes a fort of bridge betwixt them, and keeps all firm in that dire&ion. 4. Another ligament is feen here, the Ligamentum Commune Trafezoides («), which does not rightly belong to this joint, being but a ligament of the Clavicle; f©16& or THE JOINTS. form 3 fo that there are the following parts attached to the Coracoid Procefs (?), viz. the Coraco-brachialis (72.), and the lhort head of the biceps (&), going down from it, the Ligamentum Triangulare Proprium (*w) going to the Acromion, and the Ligamentum Commune (n) going to the Clavicle. The Capfule or bag of the joint which is exceedingly thin, and lax, is marked (0 0) ; and it is cut open to Ihow the head of the bone, as it lies in its focket. This Ihows alfo the long tendon (i), of the Coraeo-brochiffe as . it comes through the focket, lying upon the round head of the ihoulder bone. And laftly, the flat tendon of the Subfcapularis is feen fpreading over the Capfular Ligament at (/>), by which it will be eafily conceived, how the other mufcles fpread over the Capfule to {Length- en it; for here it is feen, that the cut edge of the Capfule, and the cut edge of the tendon of the Subfcapularis is one and the fame part; that is, the flat tendon and the Capfule are fo incorporated, that the one cannot be cut nor torn without the other. And thus it may be underftood, how the chief fecurity and ftrength of the Ihoulder joint is from the mufcles furrounding its Capfule fo clofely, and feeing implanted direftly into the head of the bone. FIGURE II. Is intended chiefly for lhowing the fhallownefs of the Glenoid Cavity, when com- pared with the head of the bone, and it alfo explains very wrell the way in which the long tendon of the biceps rifes from the margin of the Glenoid Cavity. The Scapula (A) is naked, but w'ith the remains of ragged flefh hanging about it; where (?) marks the Spine of the Scapula riling towards (tf), which is the point of the Acromion Procefs; (?) marks the apex of the Coracoid Procefs fcarcely feen; (m) is the Ligamentum Proprium Triangulare lying rather in lhadow; the Capfule is here alfo marked (0 0) ; it is cut up and thrown quite back in a fquareBOOK THIRD, PLATE FIRST. 169 form from the manner in which it is cut; the edges of the cut Capfule are ftill feen furrounding the ihoulder bone, as well as the Glenoid Cavity; and this throwing back of the Capfule Ihows the ihallownefs of the Glenoid Cavity (p), and the roundnefs and largenefs of the head of the ihoulder bone ; and within the Capfule is feen the long head (2) of the biceps, riiing from the margin of the focket, at its upper part. (k) Marks the remains of the tendon of the Supra-fpinatus Mufcle, where it lies upon the Capfule and adheres to it; and it is this tendon which gives the Capfule an appearance of thicknefs, and makes it turn fo rigidly backwards at this particular point (&). FIGURE III. May be compared with figure i. to obferve how entirely the joint is furrounded with its great mufcles : For here is the Infra-fpinatus covering the Capfule, juft as the Subfcapularis does in figure i. But the chief ufe of this figure is to give a true notion of one of the greateft Burfae Mucofse that belong to the Ihoulder joint. The Parts marked in this drawing are, The bafis of the Scapula (a) ; the beginning of the Spine of the Scapula (b); the Acromion Procefs (c) ; the Clavicle (d) ; the ligament which ties the outer end of the clavicle firmly to the point of the Acromion Procefs (r) ; the point or apex of the Coracoid Procefs (f) ; the fliaft of the ihoulder bone (g). But the head of the ihoulder bone is concealed by the mufcles, and other foft parts. Then, of the foft parts there are feen chiefly thefe, The great belly of the Infra- spina- tus Mufcle (74.), where it lies upon the Scapula black and Alining; (for every mufcle when' diflected clean, has a metally-like furface) the belly of the Teres Minor (75.), the tendon of which twifts to be implanted thus into the ihoulder bone at (£). The ftiort head of the biceps ([h) is feen rifing from the point of the Coracoid Procefs Y Cf),OF THE JOINTS. I7£) (f) ; while its longer head (i) is feen coming out round and lmall from the cavity of the joint: The flelh of the Coraco-erachialis (72.) is feen black, and lying in lliadow behind the two heads of the biceps. The two heads of the biceps are not joined to each other till they pafs the middle of the arm, i. e. below the point where (78.J the number of the biceps is placed. Lafllr, The chief point in this drawing is the Burfa Mucofa marked (ni) ; which lies on the outfide of the Capfular Ligament of the joint; it is very large, and is furround- ed by many fmaller ones. This is fufficient to explain the appearance of a Burfa Mucofa; the ufe of this great one, lying betwixt the Capfule of the joint and the Acromion Procefs is eafdy conceived, and the nature of the fmaller ones lying, under the point of the Coracoid Procefs, and under each of the tendons, as of the Teres Major, Latiffimus Dorfi, &c. need hardly be explained *, FIGURE IV. Explains the Elbow7-joint; and rifo ftiows the Wrift, but imperfectly. The three bones which form the Elbow-joint are, the Humerus («) ? the Radius (£) -r and the Ulna (c). They tyre all connected with each other by the general Capfule or bag of the joint (d), which is derived from the Periofteum, coming off from the Ihoulder bone above thofe hollows which receive the Olecranon and Co- ronoid Proceffes ; which is in itfelf thin, and delicate,, but is crofled by lateral and Tranfverfe Ligaments, fo that it does not appear like a diftinCt bag ; and therefore the chief demonftration is of the bands, wdiich go acrofs the Capfular Ligament to {Lengthen it in various directions. O x. The Coronary Ligament of the Radius is not, as might be fuppofed, any diftiaft ligament, but merely a particular form of that part of the General Capfule. The * This is the Burfa which I had feen diftended with a prodigious quantity of glairy fluid, and producing a tumor upon the Ihoulder. Fid. Book upon the Joints, page 431.BOOK THIRD, PLATE FIRST. ijl The Coronary Ligament (<?) is juft that part of the General Capfule, which belongs to the head of the Radius. In attaching itfelf to the neck of the Radius, it feems a little radiated or purfed up at the root (V/) ; a little higher as at (c), where it goes over the plain button-like head of the Radius, it is braced very firm ; it is in- deed hard and cartilaginous, particularly hard and fmooth within ; and at this point, it is efpecially ftrengthened by two Acceffory Ligaments ; the one (/«), named the Anterior Accessory Ligament, is hardly to be diftinguifiied from the fore-part of the General Capfule, which is irregular and very lax. This Ac.* ceflbry Ligament is almoft mixed with the lower part of the Capfular Ligament being in fa£t but a ftronger band of the general Capfule, the Capfule being ftretched over the point of the Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna. But there is another ftrengthening of the Capfule, which forms a more diftintt and ftronger Acceftory Ligament for the Coronary Ligament Of the Radius : This AccefTory ring of Ligament is marked (rc), and rifes from the {harp edge of the Coronary Procefs of the Ulna. And laftly, the two Internal Lateral Ligaments, or the {Lengthenings of the Capfule by flips of Ligament, which come from the Condyle are marked (o o). There are generally two as here reprefented ; but fometimes they are united into one larger Ligament. Thefe two fmall but ftrong flips of ligament go from the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri to the root of the Coronoid Procefs, where it rifes from the body of the Ulna. The Inter-o'sseus Ligament, which paffes betwixt the Radius and Ulna, is marked fp') ; its ftringy fibres are feen, and alfo the holes by which arteries and veins pafs from the fore to the back parts of the fore arm. One particular flip of ligament marked (y), is named Chorda Transversalis Cubiti ; and is always found of this form, ftretching from the Radius below its Tubercle, to the Coronoid Procefs of the Ulna, In the lower part of the fame drawing, we have the wrift-joint, where (y) marks the Y a ScaphoidOF THE JOINTS. Scaphoid Cavity of the Radius (.1). The moveable Cartilage, fmall and Triangular, which reprefents the head of the Ulna in this joint (t), points out the oval form of this cavity by circumfcribing it; (u) fhows the round head of the Os Scafhoides ; (<y) fhows a fimilar round Articulating Surface of the Os Lunare ; and it is here feen, that thefe two are the chief bones on the part of the Carpus, and that they form together an o-val head, which, correfponding with the oval form of the Sca- phoid Cavity of the Radius (r), makes the wrifl-joint a regular hinge, not capable of lateral motions. The Capfule of the wrifl which inclofes thefe bones, to form them into a joint, is feen here with its cut edges marked (t) ; for the lines from (i) ferve at once to circum- fcribe the joint, explaining its oval form, and to mark the cut edges of its Capfule. («) Marks the crofs Ligament of the wrifl which binds the tendons down into the deep hollow, which is reprefented here; and (103.) marks the Abdu&or Pollicis, PLATEBOOK. THIRD, PLATE SECOND, T *■ i / o I PLATE IT. This Plate explains the Text Book, from Page 239, to Page 45 2. The two firft figures of this plate explain the Hip-joint; of which the chief parts are the foclcet, the head of the bone, the Capfule, and the Central Ligament of the joint. HT . cre/h JL HE Os Ilium is marked (a) ; the warn or fpine of the Ilium is marked (Z>) ; the Pofterior Spinous Proceffes of the Ilium (c) ; the Anterior Spinous Proceffes are marked (d) ; the Spinous Procefs of the Ischium, is marked (<?) ; and the Tuberofi- ty of the Ifchium, the lowed; point of the Pelvis, upon which we fit, is marked (f) ; the Ramus or leg of the Ifchium, joining the leg of the Pubis, is marked (g) ; the Thyroid hole (^); the Symphilis Pubis (?) ; and the creft of the Pubis (i) ; the fhaft of the thigh bone is marked (/) ; the great Trochanter is marked (m) ; and the head of the bone is marked (7.) I The parts of the joint are marked with numbers, thus, (1.) Is the bony margin of the Socket where it is formed by the Tuberofity of the Os Ifchium ; there the focket is very deep. (2,) The Cartilage which encircles the brim of the focket, making it Hill deeper and more fecure. (3.) A part of the circle of the focket oppofite to the Thyroid hole, where the focket is 2.174 OF THE JOINTS. is exceedingly fliallow, or where rather the bony margin, of the focket is wanting, and its place is fupplied by a Ligamentous fubftance. (4.) Is the Capfular Ligament of the hip, which is the ftrongeft in all the body. The thick cut edges of the Burfal Ligament are feen here ; and the ligament is feen to come off at (%), from the Cartilaginous borders of the Acetabulum, being truely (as it is explained in the defcription of this joint) a continuation of the Perichondri- urn, or membraneous covering of the Cartilage, confifting of two Gancefce, one of which comes from the Internal Surface of the Socket, while the other comes from the outer furface of the bone, and both of them are condenfed into the Burfal Li- gament. (5.) Is a ftrengthening of the General Capfule, or what may be called the Acceffory Ligament, coming down from that little Bump which is named the Inferior An- terior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium ; and this Acceffory Ligament is bell feen in figure ii. where the Capfule is preferved entire, chiefly for the purpofe of fhowing this ftrengthening or fupplementary band. (6.) Is the Central Ligament, which is commonly called the round ligament, though it is truely of a Triangular form; riling by a broader balls at (6.) from the center of the focket, and implanted fmall, neat, and round into that dimple which is feen in the drawings of the thigh bone, in the very center of its globular head ; indeed the dimple made by the infertion of this ligament is well feen here at (7.) (8.) In the deep part of the focket, where this figure is placed, we fee dimples irregu- larly hollow, which axe the beds for lodging the Mucous Ducts of the joint, or what has been called, though not truely, the STnovial Gland ; and at thefe hollows there are Frenulse, or little tongues of the inner membrane of the focket, which hold thefe Mucous Duds in their place ; there are alfo little Frenulse round the neck of the bone, efpecially at its root, which condud the Mucous Duds, which lie there,. Thefe are the Frenulse, or little ligaments, which I meant to enumerate in page 446,.BOOK. THIRD, PLATE SECOND. I 75 by faying a that there are two Internal Ligaments belonging to this joint, viz. the s< great Internal Central, or round ligament as it is called, and thefe fmaller “ Mucous Ligaments.” (9.) Is the root of the Burfal Ligament, for it embraces not merely the head, but alfo the neck of the bone; and it is here explained how the Perioileum Co), which 9 is feen torn up from the fhaft of the thigh bone, goes off from the bone at Qp), in the form of Burfal Ligament, fo that the Burfal Ligament and the Perioileum are continuous, being different modifications of one membrane. FIGURES III. and IV. Are drawings of the outfide of the knee-joint, for explaining the General Capfule of the joint, and efpecially for explaining the ftrengthenings of the Capfule, which are known by the names of Lateral and Poflerior Ligaments. Figure III. Ihows the inner fide of the knee-joint, with the great Internal Lateral Ligament, (a) Marks the thigh bone ; (b) the Tibia, and the letter is placed upon that bump, which receives the tendon of all the Extenfor Muffles ; (c) the Patella appearing through the tendinous expanlions which cover all the joint. There is left here a part of the flelh^ belly of the Vaftus Interims Muffle (174.). This belly expands into the form of a thin tendinous faffia, which goes over the common. Capfule of the joint sit (cl), to ftrengthen it. It is at (e), that the broad tendon of the Vaftus Internus is inferted into the Patella ; and (f) is the ftrong Ligament of the Patella, which comes clown from the pointed lower end of the Patella, which though it is called Ligament, is merely the thick and tough tendon by which all the muffles, which extend the leg, as the Rectus, Vasti, and Crur^us, are fixed into the knob (3), upon the head of the Tibia. (g) Marks that margin of the head of the Tibia upon which the Semi-lunar Cartilage plays, and this lharp edge iS'OF THE JOINTS. 176 is feeti here {liming through the Capfule of the joint, (i) Marks the Capfule of the joint itfelf, thin and delicate at this point (by the fide of the Patella). (£, Marks the oreat Internal Lateral Ligament, which is fometimes named Ligamenxum Latum Internum, from its great breadth. It is not merely a flrengthening of the common Capfule, as the Lateral Ligaments of the elbow-joint are, but is a firm and diftind ligament, bright and gliilening with filvery lights upon it like mother of pearl, of full three inches in length, very regular and formal, of a triangular fiiape, rifing by a broad bafis from the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, inferted by a fmaller and more pointed end into the head of the Tibia ; and ftretching down the bone, fo as to mix gradually with the Periofteum, and with the General Fafciae or Tendinous Expanfions, which go out over the fore parts of the Tibia. And that it may be underftood, how little this Ligament is connected with the Capfule, and how fairly it is entitled to the name of Lateral Ligament, I have differed it fo as to thruft a piece of Bougie (/), under the middle of the ligament, where it pafles over the middle of the Capfule. Behind this at (m), there is a band of ligament lying, and in the direction of the greater ligament, which might almofl be named as a lefier Internal Lateral Ligament, but which is defcribed only as a flrengthening of the greater one. Figure IV. at the fame time that it explains the Pofterior Ligaments, reprefents alfo the Lateral Ligaments on the outer fide of the joint. (a) Marks the thigh bone; (£) the Tibia; (n) the Fibula; (z) the Burfal Ligament of the joint, fo cut as to expofe the inner Condyle of the thigh bone, naked and filming. This Burfal Ligament is {Lengthened every where behind, by irregular firings of li- gament pafiing over it in all directions, but chiefly oblique, and one of thefe ob- lique Fafciculi or bands is generally fo very ftrong, as to deferve the name of Liga- mentum Pofticum. So I have marked the irregular Fafciculi (0), and I have marked the more formal Ligament the Ligamentum Pofticum Winflowii (/>). The*Book third, plate second. 177 / The great Lateral Ligament on the outer fide of the knee-joint is marked (y). It is here feen, that the External Lateral Ligament is not fo flat as the Internal one, that it does not lie fo fairly as the Internal one upon the fide of the joint, but that it inclines a little towards the back part; and it is feen in the drawing as I have explained it in the book, that the proper External Ligament, the Ligamentum Laterale Externum Longum (<7), is a large and ftrong ligament, proceeding from the outer Condyle of the thigh bone, and fixed into the head of the Fibula; but that the Ligamentum Externum Laterale Brevius vel Minus (r), has not the true form of a Lateral Ligament coming down from the Condyle, but is a mere {Lengthening or outward band of the Capfule, rifing upwards from the knob of the Fibula. So that in thefe two drawings, iii. and iv. are feen, all the chief parts on the outfide of the knee-joint. z. The bones as, (a) the thigh bone; (&) the Tibia; (c) the Rotula or Patella; (an) the Fibula ; and (f) the ftrong Ligament of the Patella, a part which is pro- perly arranged with the bones. 2. There is the Capfule and parts conne&ed with it, as (a) the thin membrane of the Capfule itfelf^ (d) the Fafcia or expanding tendon of the Vaftus Internus fpreading over it, to ftrengthen it. 3. The Lateral and Pofterior Ligaments, as (£) the Internal Lateral Ligament, flat, ftrong, and almoft triangular; with a fmall ligament (pi) to ftrengthen it; (y) the great External Lateral Ligament rounder and more oblique ; which (in its turn alfo) is {Lengthened by a fmaller ligament (r). And Laftly, the {Lengthen- ings on the back part of the joint, which are irregular at (0), and which form fometimes a more regular Ligament at (/>), ^ Ligamentum Posticum Wins- LOW II. This Anatomy of the knee-joint is continued in the two firft figures of next plate.' Z PLATE!or. \ Ts i 7ja. //. m, rUif.UA/A. > JLBe/t* ' “•; *>• „ •: ub<J 9/Si «!hoxiO| 1 4. f? ;]nh( /BOOK THIRP, FtA.TR THIRD, PLATE III. Tbit Platt explaint the Text Booh, from Page 443, to Page 43 J. The Anatomy of the knee-joint is continued in this plate. It explains the internal parts, the knowledge of which is more valuable than of the external parts, in proportion as internal difeafes of this joint are more frequent than luxations, which never happen except in thofe ter- rible injuries, where all the foft parts belonging to the joint, are en- tirely torn up by the roots, fo that the limb cannot be faved. The chief parts to be obferved within the joint are the fat, and Mucous Membranes, which lubricate the joint, the Ligaments or Frenuke, which order and regulate the motions of thefe fatty mafles and fringes., the Semi-lunar Cartilages which, like fridion-wheels facilitate the motions of the joint; and Laftly, the great Crucial Ligaments by which the joint is ftrengthened within, the Crucial Ligaments alone being ftronger than the whole of thofe Ligaments which are to be feen on the outiide of the joint. 1. The Fat. The fat which is for lubricating the knee-joint, though it is not entirely confined to the circle of the Patella, yet it chiefly furrounds it; and with the fat there are Z 2 manyOF THE JOINTS. l80 many fringes of the Mucous Butts; much fat is found at each fide of the Patella at {a a), but the chief collection is at the lower part of the Patella. At ('b) figure u this fat appears peeping out from under that ligament, by which its motions are regulated ; but at (/;) in figure ii. the ligament is cut away, and all the fat is freely feen. This collection of fat and Mucous Butts makes a rifing upon each fide of the Patella, marked with a deep, and fmooth fulcus round the edge of the bone; and this hanging of the fat on each fide of the Patella, is named by Weidbright the Liga- mentum Alare Majus, where it hangs in the inner fide of the Rotula ; and Ligamen- tum Alare Minus, where it projetts lefs at the outfide of the Rotula ; (Vid. (« a) figure i.) But all this is quite arbitrary ; thefe are not ligaments, nor do they tie any other part; they are but looter foldings of the inner coat of the Capfule, where it rifes over the inner furface of the Patella, and where it holds larger globes of fat, or condutts the fringes of the Mucous Follicules. 2. The Mucous Ligament. Thefe bundles of fat are tied by a true ligament (c), which properly belongs to them. But to underhand this ligament and its names, it mud be obferved, that the two Lunar Cartilages are moveable ; that the two horns of the Lunar Cartilages are tacked together by a little Tranfverfe Ligament; and that this Tranfverfe Ligament is again connetted with the little mafs of fat, which lies under the lower border of the Patella ; and laftly, it is to be remembered, that thefe fatty bundles are chiefly intended for condutting and defending the Mucous Dutts or fringes. Now the li- gament (y) figure i. which regulates at once the pofitions of all thefe parts in the various motiQns of the joints, has been named “ Ligamentum Mucofum,” by Ve- falius, he referring it to the Mucous Membrane it is named “ the Ligament moving the Semi-lunar Cartilages” by Cheflelden; it is named, “ Ligamentum Internum ** Longitudinale,”181 BOOK THIRD, PLATE THIRD. u Longitudinale” by Walther, becaufe of its running down exaflly in the middle of the joint; it is named not unfrequently “ Ligamentum Gracile,” from its delica- cy. Weidbright feems to call 'it (in one place at leaf!) Ci Frenulum Pinguedinis “ Glandulofseand he concludes with a queltion, whether this in place of being a diftinft Ligament be not rather a continuation of his two Aliform Ligaments. But the nature of this ligament istvery diftinft. It is a regular ligament of a very con- ftant form, and having very curious ufes ; it is a ligamem tolerably thick, but of a foft and membranous nature. It is fmall and pointed above as at ('d), where it rifes from the interftice betwixt the two condyles of the thigh bone ; it gradually broad- ens downwards, fo as to acquire rather a triangular form, terminating by a broad bafe near the root of the patella at(e e). It lies in the fore part, or rather perhaps in the centre of the joint in the middle behind the patella, and before the Crucial- Ligaments. Its balls fpreads out into two limbs (ee) ; one going to the right fide, and the other to the left,, and this forking of it is named by Walther Lie amen- tum Transversu-m Semicirculare* ; calling the upper and fmaller part of this li- gament the Longitudinal Ligament; while he names the balls and broader part of the ligament the Tranfverfe Ligament, and it is under this root or tranfverfe part of the mucous ligament that the fat which it confines is feen peeping out at (&). This ligament then, (which in place of dividing thus curioufly into Longitudinal and Tranfverfe or Alar ligaments, may be defcribed under the general title of Mucours Ligament), is of confiderable fize, being almolt of the thicknefs of the little finger, and is the part that is feen when the joint is firfl opened ; not firm and hard like thofe ligaments which tie the bones, but foft, delicate, and membranous, fit for its office of conducting the mucous duels in fafety, and regulating the motions of the fatty bun- dles. It is fmall at ('d), where it comes off from the great Sulcus betwixt the con- dyles. * So Walther names as Tranfverfe Ligament thofe parts which Weidbright marks by the names of Ligamentum Alare Majus and Minus.<©F TH£ JOINTS. dyles. It grows bread at its root, being there fo large as to fill up all the empty fpace in the joint. It aflumes at its lower part a triangular or prifmatic form, with one flat fide dire&ly forwards, and the other angle of the prifm looking backwards in the joint, and covering the crucial ligaments which lie in the back part of the cavi- ty. After enlarging at its bafis, it degenerates into a foft mucous or mem- branous covering for the fat and mucous glands ; thus it is connected at its root with the lower edge of the patella ; with the fat and mucous fringes, and with the fore horns of the Semilunar Cartilages. So that this ligament moves in every mo- tion of the joint, as the thigh-bone from which it rifes moves, it is moved the more from its connection with the patella, and as this ligament moves along with the patella, it in its turn moves the Semilunar Cartilages and the bundles of fat, and keeps them fixed, or draws them forwards; for were the fat permitted to move back- wards, it would be bruifed direCtly betwixt the bones with a force that would deftroy it; and thus the mucous duCts not only by the elafticity of the fat which furrounds them, ftart out from betwixt the bones when they prefs too clofely ; but the fat toge- ther with all the glands which belong to it is fo held forward by this mucous liga- ment as to lie always in the free and open part of the joint. This ligament was thought by the ancients to be fometimes wanting, though this cannot be true of a part fo eflfential to the found conftitution and free motions of the joint. It is believed by fome, that it may be torn in fudden and violent bendings of the knee ; it furely is the part the moil fubjeCt to difeafe, fince we find it in ulcerated joints quite coroded. It is plain that this part muft be moll peculiarly .fubjeCt to inflame, fince it is continually working in every motion of the joint; it is not only delicate in itfelf,but is connected with all the more delicate parts ; for the in- ner membrane of the capfule is continuous with this Mucous Ligament; the fat that furrounds the patella is continuous with it ; it conduCts the fringes or duCts of the chief mucous glands; it is itfelf a fecreting furface, and the moveable or Semilunar Carti- lages*83 BOOK THIRD, PLATE THIRD. lages are tied to it; by all which circumftances it becomes too important in the ce» conomy and difeafes of this delicate joint to be palled {lightly over. 3. The Moveable Cartilages. The two Moveable Cartilages are not feen in Fig. 1. becaufe the mucous ligament which covers them is entire. In Fig. ii. they are marked (mm). The letters (m m) touch the outer edges of the cartilages, where their outer margins adhere to the inner furface of the capfule. The parts and connexions ofthefe cartilages are better explained in Fig. iii. where (m m) Hill mark the outer circles which adhere to the inner furface of the capfule. The letters (« n) mark the thinner edges, and {how the fpace in the center of each cartilage which holds the condyle of the thigh-bone, (pp) Mark the two pollerior horns and the little tags of ligament by which they are tied to the crucial ligaments behind. And (jq q) mark the two anterior horns, and the little tags of ligament by which they are tied to the root of the mucous ligament before. And (r) marks a little crofs liga- ment by which the two anterior horns are conne&ed with each other, and which is named Ligamentum Transversale Commune, 4. The Crucial Ligaments Are well feen in Fig. ii. where (c) marks the part from which the pointed origin of the mucous ligament was cut away. And by cutting away that ligament, the Crucial Li., gaments which, in Fig. i. are covered by the mucous- or central ligaments, are in this drawing brought into view The Crucial Ligaments lie both in the back part of the joint, and touch that part of the Capfule, which lies in the Ham; but one of them (s) lies behind, whence it is. called the Pollerior Ligament, and the_ other (?) though it lies flat upon the Pollerior-g. OF THE JOINTS. 2 And Ligament, and in contaft witiy; yet being before it, is named the Anterior Liga- ment. The reafon of this Anterior Ligament being reprefented as coming fo far forwards as to touch in a manner the root of the Patella, is plainly this ; that to take a fure hold of the Tibia it does actually rife over the tubercle in the center of the joint, and goes •out flat over all the face of the joint, and the reafon of the Pofterior Ligament feeming to follow this one, and to come alfo far forwards in the joint, is, that the ligaments of the horns of the Lunar Cartilages climb upon the fore-part of the Pofterior Liga- ment, and fo it is more properly the Ligament of the Lunar Cartilage that is feen at (a), while the head only of the Pofterior Crucial Ligament is feen at (/). Eut both the true direction and extent of thefe ligaments and their true office will be better underftood by the following plan ; for there is this one thing very lingular in the effeft of thefe ligaments, that it is not the Pofterior Ligament that checks the leg and prevents it going too far forwards ; nor the Anterior Ligament that prevents it being ftrained backwards,but quite the reverfe ; for the Pofterior Ligament is mofl ftretched when the knee is bended ; the Anterior Ligament again is ftretched when the leg is extended. Figure I. Shows the leg extended. Figure II. Shows the knee bent. In Figure ift, («) is the Thigh-bone ; (i) the Inner Condyle ; (c) the Outer Condyle ; (d) the head of the Tibia; (e) the knob in the center of the Knee-joint; and (i)is the Anterior Ligament arifing from the Outer Condyle, (viz. the one neareft the eye in this drawing), and going out over the fore-part of the Tibia, and inferted properly into that hollowr (/’), which receives the Condyle; (2) is the Pofterior Ligament, rifing rather from the center of the Thigh-bone betwixt the Condyles, and going 4own over the back-part of the Tibia at (g),And in figure ii. it is plain by the change of the polition of the bones, that when the BOOK THIRD, PLATE THIRD, igg . knee is bent, the Pofterior Ligament (2.) is ftretched, and the Anterior (1.) re- laxed. And of courfe, as in figure i. that when the leg is extended, the Anterior Ligament (1.) will be ftretched, and the Pofterior (2.) relaxed. A a laOF THE JOINTS. In thefe three drawing?, all the internal parts of the knee-joint are explained. !. The Fat which is collected chiefly round the Patella, which perhaps does not exude nor mix with the fluid of the joint, but ferves rather by its Lubricity and Elaftic ' nature, to conduit and defend the fringes or Mucous Duds. 2. The Mucous Ligament, which is the firft part that is feen upon opening the joint ; ■which lies in the center of the joint; is of a foft and mucous nature ; conduits many of the Mucous Fringes ; and which, defending from the middle of the thigh bone betwixt the Condyles, is attached to the lower edge of the Patella, and to the Semi-lunar Ligaments, and fo it moves along with the Patella, and moves in its turn the Cartilages and the fat. It regulates the motions of the Cartilages, and it draws forwards the fat, preventing it going backwards, fo as to be bruifed betwixt the bones. 3. The Semi-lunar Cartilages, which are like the labels which are put round the neck of a wine flalk. They are tied at the horns by ligaments, as the label is hung by its chain ; lie flat upon the Tibia, to facilitate its motions, and enable, at the fame time, the Condyles of the thigh bone to change their centers of motion, according to the various poftures of the joint. 4. The Cross Ligaments, which are very thick, and ftrong, lie chiefly in the back part of the joint, and by their going the one over the face of the Tibia, and the other down along the back of the bone, they limit both its motions, the one checking it in too violent bendings of the knee, the other limiting its extenfions. So that the motions forwards and backwards* are limited by thefe Crofs Ligaments within the joint, while it is fecured from irregular Lateral motions by the ftrong Lateral Ligaments without. FIGURES /187 BOOK THIRD, PLATE THIRD. FIGURES IV. AND V. Explain the Ligaments of the ancle joint, and of the foot. All the great Ligaments belonging to the ancle joint, or 10 the Tarfal Bones are drawn in figure iv. and in figure V. are feen the two great ligaments lying in the foie of the foot. FIGURE IV. 'TP . . . . * JL HE Ligaments belonging to the ancle joint are thel'e, (1.) A ftrong Ligament tying the Fibula to the Tibia. It is large and very ftrong ; commonly it is divided, as here, into two, fometimes into three flips ; fometimes they all adhere. It is named the Ligamentum Anticum Superius. There is on the back part of the Fibula a ligamentous membrane, which is like this one, and is nam- ed Ligamentum Fibulae Pofticum Superius. Thefe ligaments conneft the Tibia and Fibula fo firmly to each other, that they are as one bone with two procefles, viz. the inner and outer ancles. (2.) Is the Middle Perpendicular Ligament, a very ftrong ligament, which de- fcends dire&ly from the point of the outer ancle, to tie it firmly to the fide of the Os Galcis. There are three ligaments tying the outer ancle to the foot ; viz. firft, this middle one ; fecond, the anterior one; and, third, one behind the joint, a pofterior ligament, which is not feen. This Middle Perpendicular Liga- ment, fo named from its pofition, defcends direflly from the very point of the outer ancle, and it is implanted into the fide of the heel bone. It holds the an- cle from yielding to one fide, and from bending too much ; aflifting rather the pof- terior ligament than the anterior one. It lies clofe upon *the Capfule, and ftrength- ens it; while the tendons of the Peronaei Mufcles glide and rub acrofs it. (3-) Tiie A a 2»F THE JOINTS, iSS the {3.) The Anterior Ligament of the outer ancle is for tying the outer ancle to the Afh'agalus, as the perpendicular one ties it to the heel bone. It goes fometimes in two diftimft bands, as reprefented here. Very often they are fcarcely divided ; it ap- pearing as one ftrong uniform ligament, white and gliftening, palling obliquely for- wards from the lowelt point of the Fibula to the neck of the Aftragalus. Thefe three are the chief ligaments of the ancle ; and the order of ligaments which come next, is of thofe which tie the Aftragalus to the Os Calcis and to the Os Navicu- lare. 1 ft, (a) Is a ligament, or rather two or three ligaments, which crofs the great hole, which, in the drawings of the bones of the Tarfus, is marked uTith a pencil thrufl up through it. This is called the Cavitas Sinuofa; and fo thefe irregular ligaments are named Ligamenta, or Aparatus Ligamentosus Cavitatis Sinuos®. They are merely irregular ligaments, lying deep in this hollow, and tying the Aftragalus to the Os Calcis. 2d, (£) Is a ligament which ties the Aftragalus to the Os Naviculare. It begins at the neck of the Aftragalus ; touches the Os Naviculare; goes ftill forwards, and fpreads a little upon the cuneiform bones ; and, from this expanding form, is named Liga- mentum Latum. Though there are feveral bands of ligament on the inner fide, they are not fo particular, nor fo formal in their fhapes or ufes, as to have any ap- propriated name. 3d, (c) There are ligaments tying the Os Calcis, in its turn, to the Os Naviculare and to the Os Cuboides. The letter (c) is placed upon that prominent point of the Os Calcis whence thofe ligaments go off; and they go fomewhat in a ftar-like form, juft as I have drawn them, and not very diftindt. And thofe bands which go up- wards tie the Os Calcis to the Os Naviculare;—thofe which go downwards tie it to the Os Cuboides; for the chief articulation of the heel-bone is with the Os Cu- boides. 4th, (d) There goes a little flip of ligament, not much noticed from this fame point ofBOOK. THIRD, PLATE THIRD. the heel-bone, to that part (?) of the rnetatarfal bone -of the little toe, which is very ffiarp and prominent 4 and is in all pofitions and drawings the moil remarkable point in the foot. neiform bones, together, are flat, Ihining, dar-like, and very numerous; and, from their lying upon the back of the foot, are named Ligamenta Plana Dorsalia, They are marked (rrr) ; and are too irregular in their form, and too general in their ufes, to need any more accurate indication; for thefe are the ligaments which are fo eroded and interwoven, “ that they form what we may call a web of liga- “ ments, confiding of fluffing and dar-like bundles,” of a cartilaginous hardnefs, ad- hering clofely to the whole furface, and paffing from bone to bone over all the fur- face of the foot. (7) Is the Ligamentum Longum, which is marked 3. in the 5th drawing, and is explained in the letter prefs of that figure. The ligaments which tie together the Tarfus and Metatarfus are ffifo feen here, at the roots of the rnetatarfal bones. There arerlateral ligaments which tie each rnetatarfal bone to the one next it. But the ligaments which appear chiefly upon this upper furface, are a continuation of the irregular web of ligament belonging to the Tarfal bones; and as this web takes particular lhapes in paffing along to the feveral heads of the Metatarfal bones, thefe are bed named, in general terms, Ligamenta Dorsa- lia, the Dorfal Ligaments of the Metatarfal bones; and they are marked (sss). Ancle joint is feen opened. The Tibia and Fibula (a 8c £) are turned back- wards. Their drong ligament (r), which binds them together, is feen; the Cap- fule, which is clean differed, is marked (d), which ffiows its cut edges. (?) Shows The ligaments again, which tie the feveral bones of the Tarfus, as the cuboid and cu- In FIGURE V. thatOF THE JOINTS. 19O 2 the the that it is a refle&ion of the Capfule that lines the cavity of the joint; and the procefs (f) of the r ancle being turned back, the great head, or the cartilaginous pulley of the Aftragalus (g), is expofed covered with its fmooth cartilage. The flat fide of the Aftragalus within the joint is alfo feen at (£), where it was embraced by the inner ancle or procefs of the Tibia (/). There is but one ligament to be noti- ced in this drawing ; for ift, Is a band very ftrong indeed, which pafles from the Aftragalus to the Os Cal- cis. It has, as is feen here, the diftinft form of a ligament. It ties the Aftra- galus and Os Calcis ftrongly together ; and fo it has alfo the office as well as the mere form of a ligament. But it d±c0 Happens, that the tendon of the Flexor Polli- cis runs through this ring ; therefore its office as a ligament (which it truly is) is ve- ry little noticed. 2d, There is a ligament of the inner ancle, like the perpendicular ligament of the outer ancle. It is of a triangular form ; and is hence named Ligamentum Deltoides. A procefs of this ligament binds down the Tendons of the Tibialis Pofticus, and of the common flexor of the toes. Therefore the ligament marked (2J, at the fame time that it binds the bones of the foot together, holds down the flexor tendons. 3d, The figure (3) marks the great ligament of the foie of the foot. It proceeds final- ler from the point of the heel bone ; it enlarges towards its infertion into the Os Cu- eoides. It binds thefe two bones particularly; and, by binding them, it fupports very powerfully the whole arch of the foot; and this ligament, which is alfo very thick and ftrong, is of fuch particular length, (the longeft ligament of all the Tar- fus), that it is called Ligamentum Calcis Longius. It is feen under the edge of the foot in the drawing, figure iv. marked (l). But the trueft fupport of any joint is not its ligaments fo much as the mufcles which bend it ; and it is thus with all the flexor mufcles which pafs under this great arch of the foot—How could the arch of the foot be fuftained, by ligaments of any kind, under iJoijyTs.1 / ' • T ' ■ ' ♦ - ’ -BOOK THIRD, PLATO THIRD, 10 the whole weight of the body, and its exertions ? Surely it rould not be fuilained otherwife than by the ilrong aclion of the Tibialis pofticus and the flexor nmfcles of the toes ; and when a man {lands under a burden, as well as when he walks, this arch is fu^flained by the continual action of thofe mufcles the tendons of which pafs under the arch. FINIS, « v /1 ■