Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive in 2015 littps://arcliive.org/details/b21779764WELLCOME LIBRARY General CollectionsCATALOGUE ANATOMICAL MUSEtJM. 29, GEORGE STREET, HANOVER SQUARE, AND 44, MADDOX STREET, REGENT STREET.DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE. EMBKYOLOGY. Stand in centre of room, first Jloor. 1 Left and right ovary, fringed or fimbriated extremities of the fallopian tubes. 2 Spermatozoa 500 times magnified. 3 Spermatozoa 1000 times magnified. 4 An ovary, showing the Graafian vesicles. 5 The f illopian tube, showing the fecundated ovum. 6 Immature ovum or egg, 300 times mag- ^. nified. 7 Matiire ovum, 300 times magnified. 8 Impregnated ovum, 300 times magnified. By the three foi-egoing figures it will be seen that the egg in an immature con- dition is composed of a congeries of cells, with a larger one in the centre, which, as the egg advances towards maturity, rises to its surface, forming the germinal sjiot. A 24 On this becoming impregnated by the attachment of the spermatozoon, a small white stripe is found on the germinal spot, and this shape is termed the nota primitiva. 9 Section showing the mode in which the egg is seized by the friDged extremity of the fallopian tube : passage for the o^mm ; mucous secretion, or deciduary mem- brane ; fringed ends of the fallopian tube ; ovary ; enlargement of the Grafiaan vesi- cle, containing the oA^um. 10 Morbid appearance of the ovary, showing a yellow spot, formed by the departure of the ovum, and called the corpus luteum. 11 An ovary of one in advanced life, who lived and died unmarried, yet in the ovary several old corpora lutea are discoverable. 12 Ovary of a woman who died seven months after marriage, showing a recent corpus luteum. 13 Ovary of a woman who died four weeks after confinement, showing the corpus luteum. 14 Representation of the mode m which the Graafian vesicle bursts on the impregna- tion of the ovum. The fringed end of the fallopian tube is seizing the ovary, and the5 egg, passing into it, is carried along tlie tube into the womb to be developed, pushing back the deciduary membrane as it enters —e, ovary laid open; / the Graadan vesicle burst; 6, fallopian tube laid open ; at the extremity of which is seen the ovum detached from the ovary. 15 An ovum detached from the ovary, which was found in the fallopian tube, in a sub- ject who died from suffocation. 16 Womb, laid open, uaimpiegnated ; there- fore the nmcuous secretion is not found. Formation and development of the first traces of a, Foetus. 17 A human embryo in the first days of its fecundation—a, chorion, or enveloping membrane. 18 A human embryo still more developed—a, embryo ; b, amnion : c, vascular area ; d, blood-vessels of the yelk of the embryo ; e, chorion. 19 A human embryo farther developed—a, embryo ; b, amnion ; c, vascular area ; d, chorion. 20 A human embryo yet more advanced—a,6 embryo ; 5, amuion ; c, vascular area ; d, cliorion ; e, first aj)pearauce of the villi : /, allautoid membrane. A human embryo still more developed^— a, embryo ; b, amnion ; c, vascular area : c/, blood-vessels of the chorion ; e, allau- toid membrane. A human embryo further developed—a. embryo; b, vascular area; c, allantoid membrane, which is already attached to the chorion so as to form the umbilical or navel cord ; d, choiiou ; e, villi ; f, amuion. resentcdion of tJte more advanced d.evelopimnt of the Human Egg. Natural size of the human embryo about the third week. A human embryo magnified, in the third week/ showing how the vessels of allan- toid membrane extend themselves through the chorion — a, allautoid membrane, changed into the umbilical cord ; b, am- nion, in which the embryo is inclosed ; c, the umbilical vesicle ; d, chorion di- vided ; e, villi ; / point where the deci- duary membrane is reflected ; g, decidua7 reflexa ; h, decidua vera ; k, chorion ; w, mouth of the womb, closed hy a mucous deposit. Magnified embryo in the fifth week—« um- bilical cord; b, auinion, in which the embryo is enclosed ; c, umbilical vesicle ; d, umbilical cord ; e, villi; /, point where the deciduary membrane is reflected ; g, inner decidua ; //, outer decidua ; i, mu- cous secretion. Human embi-yo aged about fourteen days : the embryo still partly receives its nourish- ment from the yelk, from which it is separated only by a short canal. An embryo of fourteen days magnified— a, the hemispheres ; b, ve.>^icle ot the cor- pora C[uadrigemina, or middle lobes of the brain ; c, cerebellum ; d, eyes ; e, parts of the face which form the jaws; /, heart; (/, surface of the abdomen; h. surface of the loins ; i, umbilical cord ; j, umbilical vesicle ; I, posteriors. A human embryo, three weeks old, natural size. Magnified size of a human embryo three weeks old—a, vehicle of the corpora quadrigemina ; h, hemispheres ; c, eyes ; d, cerebellum ; e, rudiuients of the upper jaw ; /, rudiments of the tongue; g,8 rudiments of the lower jaw and of tlie tongue bone ; li, heart ; i, surface of the abdomen ; k, posteriors ; umbilical cord ; in, umbilical vesicle. 30 Natural size of a luinian emljrvo four weeks old. 31 Magnified appearance of a human embryo four weeks old—a, quadrigemina vesicle ; h, cerebellum ; c, hemispheres ; d, eyes ; e, rudiments of the upper jaw ; /, rudi- ments of the tongue ; y, rudiments of the lower jaw ; rudiments of the tongue bone; i, heart ; k, oblong marrow, or medulla oblongata : 1, surface of the ab- domen ; in, u]iper extremities beginning to appear; m, lower extremities; o, tlie posteriors ; p, part of the umbilical cord ; q, posterior %dew of the vertebral column. 32 Natui'al size of a human embryo in the fifth week. 33 Magnified appearance of a human embrj'o five w-eeks old—a, corpora quadrigemina ; b, cerebellum ; c, eyes ; cl, hemispheres ; e, rudiments of the upper jaw; f, rudi- ments of the tongue ; g, rudiments of the loAver jaw; h, rudiments of the tongue bone ; i, heart ; I, upper extremities ; m. lower extremities; n, surface of the abdomen.9 34 A human embryo in tlie sixth week, natural size. ST) jMagnified appearance of a liuman embryo six weeks old —«, corpora quadrigemina; b, cerebellum; c, oblong marrow; d, eyes; e, hemispheres; f, rudiments of the upper jaw; g, rudiments of the tongue ; h, rudiments of the lower jaw ; i, rudiments of the tongue bone; h, heart; I, umbilical cord ; m, up[)er ex- tremities; 11, posterior view of the ver- tebral column ; o, rudiments of the legs ; 2), posteriors. 3G Human embryo in the seventh week, na- tural size. 37 Magnified appearance of a human embryo seven weeks old—a, corpora quadrige- mina ; h, hemispheres; c, cerebellum ; d, place where the neck detaches itself from the head ; e, rudiments of the upper .i^^^ ; J] P^^i't of the nose ; g, rudiments of the tongue, already attached to eacli other; h, cavity of the mouth ; i, rudi- ments of the lower jaw ; h, rudiments of the tongue bone ; /, supposed rudiments of the clavicle ; m and n, the auricles; 0 and the ventricles of the heart; q, upper extremities; r, lower extremities;10 s, verfcebval column; t, umbilical cord; u, the posteriors. Human embryo in tlie eighth week, natnral size. Magnified appearance of a huuian eml)ryo eight weeks old—a, hemispheres ; b, cor- po°ra quadrigemina ; c, fontanel ; d, cere- belKim ; e, medulla oblongata ; / g, nos- trils ; h, rudiments of the np])er jaw ; i, bridge of the nose ; k, rudiments of the lowei- jaw ; I, ears ; m, heart; v, liver ; 0, iutestines ; q, the upper extremities ; r, surface of the abdomen ; s, vertebral column; t, lower extremities; u, sexual organs. Human embryo iu the ninth week, size natural. IMagniGed appearance of a human embryo nine weeks old—hemispheres; b, cor- pora quadrigemiua; c, first appearance of the fontanel; d, cerebellum ; e, oblong marrow ; J] nostrils ; g, rudiments of the upper jaw; /(, indication of the canal of separation; i, the part of the nose at- tached to the middle rudiments, thus forming the nostrils ; /*•, under lip, formed by the" lower jaw; /, auditory vesicle ; 7n, heart; n, liver : o. oesophagus; ^J,11 upper extremities ; q, lower extremities ; ■)\ fingers ; s, articulations of the arm ; t, toes; I', articulations of the knee; %o, abdominal region; ,r, vertebral column. \i A human embryo in the tenth week, natu- ral size. 4-'? jMagniliecl appearance of a human embrj'o ten weeks old—a, hemispheres; h, cor- pora quadrigemina; c, cerebellum ; d, ear ; e, hand ; f, ribs; g. position of the liver; h, umbilical cord; ?', vei'tebral column ; h, posteriors. 44 A human embryo in tlie eleventh week, natural size. 4-T Mfignified apj^earance of a human embryo eleven weeks old—a, hemispheres ; 6, fontanel; c, frontal bone ; d, position of the abdomen ; e, umbilical cord; f, sex- ual parts; g, fold of the skin for the two lips of the pudendum, or foi- the testicles; /i, anus. 46 A human enibiyo three months old—a, amnion ; 6, chorion ; c, umbilical cord ; d, villi. 47 An embryo thirteen weeks old. The ovum is broken and the membrane thrown back. 48 Human embryo three and a-half months12 old. The ovum is broken, but the amnion, in which the embryo is contained, is still closed. 49 An embryo five months old. A portion of the deciduary membrane is shown; the embryo is in the amnion, which is sur- rounded by the villi; tlie colour of the vagina is changed. 50 An embryo of five months old laid open, showing the thoracic and abdominal cavities. 51 Magnified hand of an embryo 10 weeks old. 52 do. do. 11 do. 53 do. do. 12 do. 54 ■ do. foot of do. 1 % do. 55 do. head of do. 13 do. 56 Magnified head of an embryo, 14 weeks old. 57 Sexual parts of an embryo, 10 weeks old. 58 do. do. 9 weeks old, j E 59 do. do. 12 do. Uq 60- do. do. . 14 do. ( - 61 do. do. 15 do. ' %_ 62 A foetus 7 moiiths old. 63 do. 8 do. 64 do. 9 do.13 The Development of the Face. 60 Head of an embryo at the beginning of the third week—a, the hemispheres; b, cavity of the palate ; c, the two parts which form the iqjper jaw; d, the two jDarts which form the tongue ; e, the two parts which form the lower jaw; f, the two parts which form the tongue bone; (/, the heart, GG Head of an embryo at the end of the fourth week—a, hemispheres ; h, the parts which form the upper jaw ; c, cavity of the palate ; d, the two jDarts which form the tongue ; e, the two parts which form the lower jaw ; f, the parts which form the tongue bone, half closed. 67 Head of a fcetus six weeks old—a, the hemispheres; h, rudiments of the upper jaw ; c, tongue ; d, tongue bone ; e, lower jaw. 68 Head of a fcetus seven weeks old—a, the hemispheres : h, small protuberances at the place of the closing parts, forming the iipper jaw, and which afterwards form the nose ; c, palate ; d, tongue ; e, lower jaAv ; f, tongue bone; g, auditory canal.14 69 Head of a foetus in the beginuing of the eighth week—a, hemispheres ; b, bridge of the nose ; c, the base of the coming nostrils; d, tongue; e, lower jaw; f, auditory passage ; g, the palate. 70 Head of a fcEtns at the end of the eighth week—a, the nostrils; b, base of the nostrils; c, the Avings of the nose; d, tongue ; e, lower jaw. 71 Head of a fa;tus at the beginning of the ninth week—a, hemispheres; b, wings s of the nose; c, nostrils; d, upper lip; e, upper jaw ; f, bridge of the nose. 72 Head of a foetus nine weeks old—a, arch for the eyebrows; b, grooves of the nose formed by the closing of the upper lip ; c, beginning of the under lip, produced by the closing of the loAver jaw. 73 Head of a foetus ten Aveeks old—a, hemi- spheres ; b, arch for the eyebrows; c, lachrymal canal ; d, folds which are pro- bably the stratum of the muscles ; e, the ear. The face is formed in three months, for all the rudiments are then developed, and the outlines are distinct15 The Development of the Genital Organs. 74 Genital organs of a foetus three weeks old. When the muscles of the abdomen become closed, there remains still a small opening, through which the genital parts are de- veloped—a, issue of the intestines ; h, posteriors. 75 Genital organs of a fcetus four weeks old. At this opening a small protuberance presents itself, w-hich serves to form the clitoris—a, clitoris; h, pudendum ; c, posteriors. 7G Genital organs of a fostus five weeks old. Major and minor lips or labia are shown —a, clitoris ; h, pudenda ; c, nymphse ; d, posteriors. 77 Genital organs of a fcetus six weeks old. —a, clitoris ; b, minor lips ; c, major lips ; d, protuberance which forms the anus ; e, posteriors. 78 Genital organs of a foetus seven weeks old— a, clitoris ; b, major lips ; c, the two sides of this opening, which begin to unite and form the perineum ; d. the perineum ; e, posteriors. 79 Genital organs of a foetus eight weeks old. The two sides here are united, and the16 •perineum is formed—a, clitoris ; b, minor lips : c, the perineum ; d, anus; e, pos- teriors. 80 Genital organs of a foetus nine weeks old— a, clitoris ; b, minor lips ; c, major lips ; d. perineum ; e, anus ; f, coccyx hardly visible. 81 Genital organs of a foetus ten weeks old— a, clitoris ; b, prepuce ; c, minor lipsj d, major lips; e, vulva; /, perineum; g, anus. 82 Genital organs of a foetus eleven weeks old. It is only in the third month that the sex can be distinguished—a, penis; b, orifice of the urethra ; c, prepuce ; d, minor lips ; e, major lips, forming the scrotum ; /, perineum ; g, anus. 83 Genital organs of a foetus twelve weeks old. The testicles are closed, the penis still opened for the urine—a, aperture ; b, prepuce; c, parts forming the urinary canal ; d, the suture ; e, the testicles ; / anus. 84 Genital organs of a foetus thirteen weeks old. At three and a-half months the penis is quite closed ; the last closing is called the fr^enum—a, aperture ; b, pre- puce ; suture.it 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 9-2 ) Natural preparatious, sliowing tlie develop- meut of the foetus from its earliest stage. 94 95 96 97 98 j 99 / 100 Fcetal leg. 101 Do. heart. 102 Do. kidne.7. 103 Part of the trachea. 104 Do. do. 105 An artery laid open. 106 The eye dis-ected. 107 Bones of the internal ear. 108 Extremity of fallopian tubes, with two small serous cysts. 109 An embryo, with the intestines dissected. 110 An embryo, with the liver sh.owu, tenth week. S18 111 Section of a uterus of a woman, at sixty, with the fallopian tubes shown. 112 Embryo, with the umbilical cord attached. 113 A male embryo, in the fourth month, the umbilical cord and a portion of the chorion shown. 1 ] 4 An embryo, with the umbilical cord. 115 An embryo, Avith the umbilical cord. 116 Embryo. 117 Embryo. 118 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, with tumour and stricture in the urethi-a ; great diificnlty in introducing the catheter. 119 Portion of the stomach aftected with carcinoma; a uiost remarkable prepa- ration. 120 An ovum containing tAvins, cuticle sepa- rated, integuments partly parted ; dead some time. 121 Embryo, with the whole of the internal organs dissected. 122 Bladder ruptured at its fundus, urethra lacerated, prostate gland enlarged and diseased, vesicnlte seminales shown; lett ureter greatly dilated with calculus. 123 Diseased bladder, prostate gland and kidney, bladder large with sacculi, thii-d lobe of prostate gland enlarged.19- 124 Diseased bluckler, ^jiostate gland, kidneys, etc., abscess in prostate gland. Died of strangulated lieniia—i.e., rupture. 1 25 Bladder, penis, and fungoid tumour in the perineum ; bladder inflamed near pros- tate gland. 126 Diseased bladder; prostate; penis; )ilail- der thickened ; tap])ed (see glass tube) ; calculi in prostate and abscess :; section of penis. 127 Fcetus, showing attachment of the umbili- cal cord. 128 Fcetus, with brain wanting, and malfor- mation of the spinal cord. 129 Do., deformity about the head. 130 Douljle umbilical cord 131 Uterus to show tbe ptfccts of inflammation ; sloughing of mucous coat; corpus luteum shown ; internal surface of uterus de- .stroyed by ulceration ; opening between bladder and vagina ; uterus imperfectly contracted. 132 Diseased bladder and prostate gland en- hxrged to three times its natural size. Died of retention of urine and fever. 133 Umbilical cord, with placenta attached. 134 Fffitus, showing position of umbilical cord.20' 135 Dissection of the fcetus, showing the circu- latory system. 136 A very fine specimen of foetus in embryo, showing the position in the meuibranc. 137 A case of double conception. 138 Diseased bladder and uretlirj, stricture ; fistule and ulceration near prostate portion. 139 Fojtus in embryo, with the vessels in- jected. 140 Uterus, fallopian tube, &c., &c. 141 Monstrosity, born with an arrest of de- velopment about the cavity of mouth and nose, 142 143 144 I Complete set of fcetal skeletons, showing [ the gi-adual develo]nnent. 148 149 150 i 151 Case of encephalis. 152 Do., with hare lip. 153 Dissection, showing the abdominal and thoracic viscera, also spinal cord. .154 Wonderful monstrosity, with external orowth in place of face..21 155 FcEtus, mucli discoloured. 156 Case of cleft palate and hare lip. 157 A hand injected with quicksilver. 158 Uterus vagina and bladder of a child still boru ; urachus ; vessels belonging to una- bilical cord shown; also kidneys and capsules. 159 \ 160 161 ( Dissection of the arteries of the upper 162 [ extremity at different periods. 163 164 ) 165 Dried preparation of stomach, gall-blad- der, 166 Skeletons of male and female monkeys. 167 Dried natural preparation of part of spinal column, ckc, &c. 168 Figure showing the muscular develop- ment. 169 Section of pelvis, showing bladder, (fee. 170 Bones of the foot; also shoulder joint. 171 Part of spinal column, with arteries in- jected. 172 Model of an infant's arm, showing the three punctures as usually made in the oper ation of vaccination. 173 Heart (natural preparation).22 174 Skull, showing the dental nerves and arteries. 175 Heart (injected). 176 Skull, showing the hones of the head- and face. 177 Substance passed from a female in labour. 1J 8 After a period of nine months a similar shaped substance was removed from this same lady. 179 After death the body Avas opened, and tlie tumour shown in this model was dis- covered. ] 80 The brain and spinal chord, with nerves, &c. 181 Head of fcetus. 182 A fracture not pro]3erly attended to, and the femur consequently badly set. 183 Dislocation of the hip joint. 18-1 In this figure v^ill be seen a half-crown piece, which lodged in the oesophagus, or food pipe, causing the death of the patient within a few days. The surface of the coin was found to be blackened by the juices secreted in the mouth and oesophagus. The tesophagiis is some- times so large in the adult as to allow a half-crown to pass through it witliont injury, and afterwards escape by the rectum,23 185 Humau skull (aged). 186 Base of skull. 187 Dried prepavation of an arm. IBS Ditto ditto a leg. 183 Ditto ditto an arm. 190 Ditto ditto ditto. 191 Section of the head, with part of the brain exposed. 192 Section of the brain. 103 Portion of the skin, sliowiug the minute 19-4 Similar part of the skin. 195 The foot of a giant. 196 Dried preparation of the hand, showing arteries, veins, and nerves. 197 Amputation of three fingers, tlie injury- caused by being crushed by a ship's cable, modelled from life from one of the crew of H.M.S. " Alecto." 198 Head with the skin taken off on the right side, so that the arteries, vein?, and nerves may be seen. 199 Model of the dissection of an arm, on the internal surface of which the more deep- seated blood - vessels and nerves are shown in their natural condition. Three human skulls, showing the thickness lacteal vessels, &c. of the bones in different ages.24 203 Various models of the external and internal ear. 201: Disei^.ised vertebrse. 205 A foetus. 206 Tlie human heart (injected). 207 M-odel of head and neck, showing the diaphrag-m, heait, and great ve.'3>-e!.=, musclfs, (fee. (fee. 207a A jjortion of the intestines, injected. 208 Stomach, the frunt of which is removed, showing its internal snrfice, (fee., ter- mination of the food pij^e into the stomach to the fir.st portion of the small intestines, internal surface of the duo- denum, small ojiening through which the gal! and the pancreatic juices enter the duodenum, the pancreatic ghtnd and the spleen. 209 C-inct')- of the liver. 210 Case con laming diseased tongue, princi- jJally ulceration. 211 Female pelvis, showing an abnormal ob- liquity t)f tlie uterus, of wliich there are cmllt-ss varieties. These obliquities not only affect the functions of the uterus, but also SI riously militate with the healthy action of the rectum and blad- der, as it presses upon the one or the25 other — the reversed uterus, pressing against tlie rectum; the vagina; the bladder. 213 The liver and gall-bladd(jr, stomach, kid- nevs, &c., in a perfect state of health, showing the various veins, nerves and arteries. 213 A head, vertically cut, .showing haii- of the brain, CT^i-ebellum, the prolonged medul- lary body, .spinal marrow, nasal septum, buccal cavity, os hyoidcs, tongue and wiuil])ipe. 214 Dried pre[)aration of the leg, &c. 215 A scries of models illustrating the de- velopmeut of the fostus in the womb (See full description on case). 216 Section of vertebra. 217 Part of the os innominarator. 218 Section of body of vertebi'a. 219 Section of a head, showing the arteries, veins, and nerves, &;c. 220 Back part of throat, showing the pharynx, touL^ue, (fee. 221 Do. much inflame:!. 222 A man's hand, with the ends of the fingers laid open, exhibiting the ramifications of the nerve which produce the sense of touctt.36 223 The Indian mode for performing the Rhinoplastic operation. In this model the flap is seen cut and parti}'- turned round, so as to bring it down to form the nose. 224 The same operation, with the nose formed. 225 The Rhinoplastic operation, with the parts shoAvn nearly healed. 226 The face perfectly restored after the ope- ration has been performed. 227 Model of a child with hare-lip. 228 Operation for hare-lip. Tliis consists in paring the edges of the fissure, bringing them together, and confining them with sutures and bandages. 229 The Talacotian, or Italian mode of per- forming the Rhinoplastic oi)eration. 230 Dried preparation of an arm. 231 Do. do. do. 232 Model of the heart, with the arteries of the neck. 233 The heart, part of tlie aorta, and vena cava. 234- Case containing the diflerent external and internal parts of the eye, itc. 235 Portion of small intestine, injected.27 236 Section of head, with the veins, arteries, and nerves laid open. 237 Under surface of the liver, sho^ving the gall-bladder in a state of health. 238 A human tongue, magnified five times, showing the three soi-ts of papillte which communicate the sense of taste, viz., a, the lenticular ; b, the fungiform ; c, the tiliform. 239 Model of an infant's arm, showing the three punctures, as usually made in the operation of vaccination. 2-iO 241 242, 243 Head, with the veins, arteries, and nerves exposed. 244 Dissection of the abdominal muscles and inguinal region, the seat of rup- ture. 245 Elephantiasis of the arm. 246') 247 ' 9^g /-Human .skulls at various periods of life. 249 ) 250 Dried preparation of the leg. 251 Do. do. do. 252 Dis.section, showing fcetal circulation. Various stasfes of the action of the vaccine matter.28 253 Case containing model of the brain, with the cranial nerves. 264 Muscles of neck dissected. 255 A piece of cartilage. 256 Section of the male pelvis, showing the small intestine ; the ccecum ; the kidney laid open; ureter, bladder, and urethra ; rectum : vesiculse seminales, and vas deferens, testicle, &c., &c. 257 Part of spinal column dissected. 258 The bust of a female. The fat yellow part in front of the neck is the thyroid body. The chest being open, shows the heart in its natural position ; the great veins and arteries; the ramifications of the bronchi ; and the diaphragm, which separates the thoracic from the abdo- minal cavity. 259 Model of head, showing the brain, tongue. 260 A piece of human .skin, showing the pro- cess of tattooing. 261 Dissection, showing foetal circulation. 262 Natural prei)aration, shewing three um- bilical cords representing tiiple birth. 263 Delivery with the forceps. When the head is found to adhere to the pelvis, or other adjoining parts, the forceps are made29 use of in order to disengage tbe infant from the womb. 264 Section of the head of the femur. 265 Section of femur, showing bony growth surrounding the head of tlie bone, the result of fracture. 266 Rib, showing the cartilage attached. 267 Female pelvis, sliowiug the ligaments dis- sected. 2G8 Bladder, prostate gland, versicula^ semi- nales, and vasa deferentia; bladder inflamed, ulcerated, prostate enlarged. Died of fever at seventy-three. 269 Section of a uterus, with a large hydatis in the broad ligament : fallopian tube obliterated. 270 Male pelvis, with ligaments dissected. 271 Female pelvis 272 Cancer of the breast, taken from life. 273 Remarkably small pelvis. 274 Dissection of the lovver part of the thigh. 275 A full-length male figure, showing com- plete dissection of the muscular system. 276 Life-size figure, showing the muscles. 277 278 Section of skull 279 Do. do.30 280 Skull, Avith i^eculiar formed frontal bone. 281 Testicle, tubuli, &c. 282 Dried preparation of left arm, dissected. 283 Do. do. of right arm, dissected. 284 An Egyptian mummy, male figure, uj)- wards of four thousand years old. Tliis figure is in a most wonderful state of preservation. 285 Transverse position. In order to effect a delivery, the infant is turned by means of the accoucheur's hand. 286 Section of a diseased bladder, uretlira, prostate gland, and stricture. 287 Cancer of the breast. 288 The breast laid open. 289 A polyp\is extirpated from cervix uteri. 290 Stricture at the verge of the anus, intes- tines thickened, uterus; shown in a » female child seven mouths old. 291 Uterus of a woman who died six days after labour. 292 Diseased bladder, prostate stricture, bladder thickened, }n-ostate enlarged, lymph across the urethra ; the bladder was tapped, (fee. 29.3 Diseased bladder, with a carcinomatous and fungoid affection of the prostate31 gland, and a morbid state of the urethra. Died at forty-five. 294 Diseased kidney, nreter, and bladder, with uterus and part of the vagina; from a maidac. 295 Inferior part of section verge of the anus, ■with pile fistula in perineo, and ditto in the rectum. 296 Fcetus, with malformation in place of fece. 297 Case of distortion and disfigurement, the result of severe burning. Cast from nature. 298 Diseased uterus. 299 Double vagina of a woman, in whom, after death, it was found that a separation existed in the vagina, dividing it longi- tudinally into two parts. 300 The uterus of a woman who had two children, with a difierence of four weeks between the birth of each. On dissec- tion, a septum was found to exist in the vagina. 301 Enlarged and diseased uterus. 302 Aneurism of the arch of the aorta. 303 Injected preparation show-ing the foetal circulation. 304 Ossification of the heart.32 305 Diseases of the tongue. (See description on case). 306 Diseases of the kidneys. (See description on case). 307 Bh^dder, inflamed mncous snrface, several sacculi, abscess in right lobe of prostate gland, left schirrons. 308 Fcetns. 309 Double umbilical cord, with placenta of twins. 310 Dissection of spermatic cord and testes. 311 Lateral section of the skull, the nerves of the ej'es dissected. 312 Fcetus; the brain not developed, though the other parts appear perfect. 313 Base of the skull, showing the optic nerves, muscles of the ej'eball, &c. 314 Lung consolidated from an effusion of lymph; child six years old. Died of measles. 315 Foetus. 31G Uterus vagina and portion of the rectum ; vagina destroyed by ulceration from leucorrhcea ; false opening into rectum from right ovarium. 317 Natural uterus, pendulous near extremity of fallopian tubes. 318 Bladder with prostate gland, several sac-33 culi ill the bladder, together with calculi. 310 LI terns of a very old woman, with osseous tumours beneath serous memlirane. 320 Uterus of an old woman who never had a child, fallopian tubes greatly dilated. 321 Portion of a bladder of an ox, dried to show the entrance of the ureters before perforation. 322 Diseased kidney, medullary substance ab- sorbed. 3'23 Prostate gland, vesiculse seminales, and vas deferentia. 324 Skeleton of a bird with two heads. 325 Uterus and rectum of a noted cyprian : fallopian tubes obliterated. 32G A child's hand. 327 Uterus of a girl sixteen years old; very vascular ; recent corpus luteum in one of the ovaries; 32<"> Dorsal vertebra3 of a rabbit. 329 Uterus, cavity small, hnibriated extremity of fallopian tubes obliterated; the canal greatly distended. 330 Hand and position of the arm of a child about the sixth month, tbe inner sur- face of some of the fingers firmly united.u 331 Bladder and vesicuhe seminales, tumorous near tlie prostate glaud. 332 Fcjetus, showing the fcetal circulation. 333 Foetus Avith umbilical cord and placenta attached. 334 Ftetus with portion of the umbilical cord. 335 Fungoid growth at the testicle. 336 Bladder and prostate gland ; mucous coat inflamed, sacculi, prostate gland diseased ■» by ulceration, prostate and membranous portion of urethra sloughy, stricture of the biJb. 337 An embryo, fourth month (preserved in alcohol), which show-s the vascularity of the skin. 338 A portion of bladder and urethra, ulcera- tion of prostatic portion, false opening tlu-ough prostate gland to the urethra, stricture and portion of urethra. 339 The bladder, injected. 340 Uterus of a young female ; its peritoneal surface, substance, and mucous lining highly inflamed; fallopian tiibes like- wise. 341 Uterus of a woman, ffit. thirty-six; serous and mucous coats highly inflamed. 342 Hand of a giant. 343 Uterus of a noted cyprian ; adhesions. phlebolites in uterine veins.35 344 Lower part of rectum, with the prostate gland, vesicul;\! semiiiales and vasa deferentia. 345 Testicle protruding from tlie abdomen, ret. five. 346 Foetus. 347 Ear of a woman, injected. 348 Diseased bladder; urethra, &g. ; warty growths near prostrate gland ; stricture at the bulb. 349 Penis and inguinal glands affected with carcinoma ; died of phthysis, ast. fifty- hve. 350 Case of polypus of the womb. 351 Case of extensive disease of the jaw, (Taken from life.) 352 Ovarian conception.—A woman twenty- eight years of age died in ]\Iunich, in 1849, from the consequences of this ab- normal conception ; which is happily of very rare occurrence. On dissection of the body, a fretus of four months old was found in the left ovary. 353 Natural preparation—dissected arm, in- jected. 354 Do. do. leg. 355 Do. do. arm, showing the nervous system. c 236 3.5G A kidoe^^, and porLioii of the cortical aud medullary sti'ucturc destroyed l>y absorp- tion ; the pelvis and ui'ctcr dilated. 0''>7 Kidneys of a dram-drinker, showing the granulated appcai-ance as described by Dr. Bright. odS Hydrocele, testis imi-avelled, spermatic chord ; chronic. 359 Section of a kidney and abdominal aorta of a young woman who died of purjjura hremorrhagica, jjreserved in alcohol. 3GO Organs of generation of the howling monkey, 361 Carcinomatoixs ; testicle. 3G2 Ivory model of the Yenus de Medici, showing the foetus, «&c. 363 Hand of a skeleton. 361 Lower portion ofrectnm thickened through htemorrhoids. 3G5 Part of a bladder with prostate gland, A'esiculte seminales, vas deferens aud the penis, showing their connection with the pubis ; glans penis lost by ulcera- tion. 366 Fcfitus. 367 Liver with hydatids, tet. forty-five, woman died of cancer. 368 A kidney injected, natural structure nearly37 effaced by chronic inflammation, large serous cyst on external surface. 309 A full-length model of the little Aztec l>oy, as he was called. These curious beino;s created a fjre it sensation in this country a few years ago, and certainly it is difficnlt to conceive anything more interesting. That the tale told of their capture is true, no mau of sense probably believes : and that they were the descen- dants of so fine a race of people as the old Aztecs, is more than questionable. 370 The Aztec girl, so called. 371 Model of a fojtnswith two bodies but only one head. 372 Circumcision, as daily performed by the Israelities and Maliomedans. Thia operation dates its origin from the commandment given to Abraham in Genesis, chap. xvii. 11, '• And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin : and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you." The removal of the prepuce is not alone conducive to cleanliness, and exemption from certain diseases, such as pliymosis and paraphy- mosis, etc , but is also considered as con- ducive to propagation.38 373 Natural preparation of tlie head aiul neck of a convict who was executed. 374 Bladder, m-etlira, and prostate gland ulcerated, sphacelated, renal calculi, and stone in the sac. 375 Skeleton of a fcetus at the seventh month. the bones injected with size and Ver- million. 376 Uterus, the mucous surface inflamed, the whole of the A'agina sjahocelated. The patient died of peritonitis, accompanied with fever, the seventh day after par- turition. 377 Natural preparation of the stomach, large intestines, small intestines, and gall bladder. 378 Uterus, vagina, and rectum, jet. sixty-five ; all carcinomatous. Uterus very large, cavity small, vagina destroyed by can- cerous ulceration opening into rectum. 379 Uterus, vagina, and rectum affected with carcinoma ; from a very old woman. _ 380 Diseased bladder, prostate stricture, arti- ficial opening of urethra ; mucous coat of bladder, inflamed sacculi, strict bulb of urethra, and false passage ; tet. forty-six. 381 Injected preparation of the leg of a child. 382 Bones of the head and neck.39 383 Diseased prostate glaod, false opening made by passing a catheter; iirethra ulcerated. The man lived to ninety years of age ; died of a paralysis of the blad- der and fever. 384 An ovarium, with extremity of fallopian tube schirrous. 385 An extraordinary specimen of a monstro- sity without arms ; cavity of nose and mouth in one. 386 External and internal organs of genera- tion, with part of the bladder and rectum ; female, sst. sixty years. The parts much diseased. 387 Skeleton of a fcetus. 388 Testicle injected with size and vermilion ; spermatic vessels shown; hydrocele tapped ; testicle inflamed; abscess formed ; opened and radically cured. Lived to seventy-seven years. 389 Cai'cinoma of the testes and spermatic cord. 390 Liver affected with fungus and,hjematodes. The liver was injected. 391 Diseased bladder, prostate, and urethra ; bladder thickened ; urethra inflamed ; £et. sixty. 392 Penis of a young ass : the structure shown.40 393 A man named Monsieur Duval, who lived in the Hospital of Val-de-Grace, in Paris, with an excrescence called goUre, Avhich entirely surronnds his neck, mea- suring sixty inches in circumiereuce, and weighiiig twenty pounds. 394 Madame Dimanche resided at Bercy, a vil- lage near Paris. In her twenty-fourth year exostoses and excrescences made their appearance on different parts of her body similar to those which protruded from her right cheek. A horn, which descended fi'om her forehead, was ope- rated upon by Dr. Sonberbielle, mea- suring ten inches, and may still be seen at the Museum Dupuytreu. Madame Dimanche was relicA-ed from this excre- scence at the advanced age of eighty, and lived seven years after, perfectly cured. 395 Section of a kidney; capsule thickered ; serous cyst on the exterual sm-face ; papilla3 shown ; kidneys inflamed ; died of dropsy. 396 Uterus with two small polypi, ovaria tuberculous. 397 A portion of the inferior part of the ^segmoid flexure of the colon, with a stricture. A female, est. fifty-Jive,41 398 Diseased bladder and kidueys, external organs of generation, and verge of tlie rec- tum : calculus in the bladder, supposed to be congenital ; 03t. eight years. The following seven natural prepara- tions were prepared, injected and dis- sected by Di: 11. J. Jordan. 399 Natural preparation—arm. 400 Do. do. dissected bead and neck, with the blood vessels injected. 401 Do. do. arm. 402 A fidl-lengh figure of a young female, showing the heart with the great blood- vessels, and a complete dissection of the arteries, nerves and muscles. 403 Dissection of the lower extremity, showing more particularly the relations oi the femoral arterj. 404 Dissection of the pelvic viscera and the abdominal aorta, &c., etc. 405 Lower extremity, with the muscles and arteries dissected. 40G Dissection of the human trunk and head- (See description of this model on case).42 407 Boues of the foot. 408 Part of the os innominator entering into the hij) joint. 409 Section of skull, showing all the veins and arteries. 410 Splendid model of the head and neck, showing all the veins and arteries. 411 Preparation showing the dental nerves and artei'ies. 412 Bones enterino- into the formation of the nasal ca^nty. 413 Disease of the antrum in the upper jaw. 414 Model of a hand with the fingers laid open, showing minute arteries, veins, etc. 415 Uterus and fallopian tubes. 416 Uterus of a noted cypriau, twenty-five, never pregnant; cavity and ossut; A-ery small adhesions between fallopian tubes and rectum. 417 Stomach of a Virginian opossum. 418 The human brain. 419 Uterus and rectum carcinomatoiis ; uterus large, inflamed and thickened ; cervix and OSS destroyed by ulceration, which has extended to rectum, showing internal surface of vagina destroyed. 420 Uterus and ovaria diseased, tet. thirty six ; married, but never pregnant ; men-43 sfcruation never regular and always painful. 421 Diseased bladder, prostate gland, urethra fistula in perineo and scrotum; thickened coat of the bladder, ulceration of the membrane, and prostatic portion of urethra ; fistula opening in perineo and scrotum. Aged forty. 422 Bladder and prostate gland, muscular coat thick ; medullary tumours in prostate gland. 423 Uterus with a small polypus at its cervix. Died of fungus hfematodes. 424 Specimen of cartilage. 425 Uterus of a woman, mucous surface, aflected with hsemorrhagico. 426 Testicle affected with fungus hsematodes; coats much thickened. 427 Ileum and cacum of a phoca or seal, in- verted ; the ccecum very .small like ■ that of a dog, terminating in the rectum. 428 Lower portion of rectum ; internal and external htemorrhoids. 429 Fffitus dissected, showing internal organs. 430 Ovum, decidua, chorion and amnion shown. 431 Uterus of a young cyprian ; fallopian tubes much dilated. Died of dropsy.44 433 Case of consumption. Lung witli tuber- cles. Aged fourteen. 433 Fcetus, Avith })laccuta attached. 434 Testis affected by carcinoma, moi-Lid growth protruded betwixt the tunic albuo-en and tunic vaginalis. 435 Testicle affected with carcinoma. i3G Two kidneys united by an isthmus ; com- monly called " the horse-shoe kidney." Aged ten. 437 Dissection of the head and neck, showinir the aorta. 438 Full-length figure of a foetus, showing the blood vessels. 439 Dissection of the head and neck and upper extremity, showing the principal arteries and nerves. 440 Di.ssection of the upper extremity, showing tlie muscles, arteries and nerves. 441 fnatural preparations, dissected, sliow- 449 ] "^g muscles, arteries, nerves and ( veins. 443 Eng and Ciiaxg, the Siamese Twixs, united by an elastic band of flesh. (Eng is on the left> and Chang on the right), were born in May, 1811, at a small village on the sea-coast, sixty miles from the capital of Siam. They were dis-i5 covered by Mr. Robert Hunter, Ji British uiercliant, wIk^ with Captain Abel Coffin, of the American sliip Sachem, made tlie necessary arrange- ments for their departure. They left yiam in April, 1829, embarked for England iu October, arrived in London on the 19 th November of the same yeai*, and were very minutely examined by se\-eral eminent medical and scientific gentlemen on the S-ith of the same month, and afterwards exhibited at the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly. The mother of the above lusus naturte had other children who were in no manner de- formed at their birth. Much pain was felt in consequence of their position, having been brouo;ht forth with the head of one between the legs of the other. Both were what might be termed rather small; they have never suffered from any disease, except small-pox, which they had when eight years old. They are of a very amiable and kindly dispo- sition, love each other, and will never act independent of one another ; though averse to reading, they are intelligent, fond of conversation, and playing at46 drauglits and cliess, disliking to play together for fear of proving an ascen- dancy. They ])ossess one common mind, seem actuated by one instinct, suffer equally, and when a point is made use of slightly to puncture the ligature "which connects them, they at one and the same moment feel the pain. They sleep facing each other, and when de- sirous of change of position, have to scramble over each other to effect their object. They are averse to being sepa- rated even should the operation be deemed practicable, since they desire to be always together as they were born. They are strong, healthy, can run very fast, as also swim, and though weighing only ISOlbs., have carried with the greatest ease, for many yards, a person weighing twenty stone. In their per- sonal appearance they resemble the Chinese. 444 Skull of a young elephant. 445 Case of Egyptian Mummies (unwrapped). —There is no doubt that the pestilential vapours which exist in Egypt, together with the absence of forests, and the annual inundation of the Nile, forced47 the natives of that torrid climate to find a means of preventing the conse- quences wliich would eusue where the dead were left to decompose. From the religious belief which prevailed that the soul would be re-united to the body even after G,000 years, if the latter were pre- served entire, arose the practice of em- balming, and the use of other means to secure it from decay. But the cata- combs have ]iot been solely confined to the reception of human bodies. Mum- mies have been made by the ancient Egyptians of the bodies of various ani- mals, as jackals, crocodiles, birds, and more often those of the ibis, or sacred bird, wliich is still found in great pre- servation, and exhibiting all the rich colours of its plumage. In ruder periods of society the bodies of the dead were preserved in natural caverns, but when such were wanting, artificial excavations were made ; those made by the Theban Kings have existed for upwards of 3,000 years. There are also catacombs in Rome, Paris, Syracuse, Malta, and Pa- lestine. The mummies brought over to Europe are of a dark brown colour,48 oi'icu even bkick and sliiuiiig, aud to the touch aw hard as wood ; their odour is of an aromatic kind, and excepting the head, comjjletely enveloped in bands of coar.se cotton. It is related that the Ethiopians used to cover their dead bodies with gum, which in drying looked like glass. The ancient Persians, we are told, used to cover them in wax, and the Scj'thes used to cover them up in skins. Whatever might have been the means taken by other nations, it is to the Eg3'ptians that we must turn for the best method of preserving the dead body. According to Herodotus, there were different classes of embalming, varying more in form than in the actual meaiis, the price making the clistiuction. The usual mode was as follows :— The body was carried to the ojjerator's home, when slight incisions were made in order to A\T.thdraw the "sascera, which after cleaning and preparing were replaced, the whole well tilled with A-arious aromatic powders; after this stage of the proceedings, the body Avas salted for the space of seA^euty days in natron, a mixture consisting of49 carbonate, hydrochloi'ate, and sulphate of sulphur; afterwards it was Avell washed, and wrapped tightly round with cotton bands saturated in gum ; a magnificent case was then provided, and thus the great and wealthy were pre- served. In the case of the poor, the operation was very simple; a certain liquid being injected wliich perfectly destroyed the intestines, ttc.; the part of salting, howevei', was added, and thus the 2:)rinciple was in both cases nearly the same. 44G A series of models, showing cases of hydrocephahis (water on the brain). 447 The Venus de Medicis. This model is a most beautiful piece of artistic work, and has been completed at immense labour and cost. It may be considered the most beautiful ever exhibited. By it every portion of the figure is pre- sented to view, showing the internal conformation of the body in a per- fectly healthy condition, and exposing the structure of the human frame, ena- bling the spectator to contemplate the mechanism by which the vital actions are carried on, the delicacy of the dif- P50 fevent organs, and tlie beautiful pro- visions made against their injiuy, or for their repai'ation in case of accident. 448 Tliis figure represents a ZOUAA'E OF- FICER IN THE AGONIES OF DEATH, having received a wound from a rifle ball, which, after jienetrating the external integuments, the iutercostid muscles, pleura, &c., passed through the right lung, and finally lodged itself in the doi'sal vertebrae, severing the spinal cord. This is the first time such per- fection of mechanism has been brought to bear on any anatomical subject. Extract from a 2)rivate letter, relative to the death of Ca/ptain of the Zouaves, Translated from the French. " Head Quarters, Solferino. " Captain has met with a most imfortunate death, having been mortally wounded by a chance shot whilst col- lecting his men after the tattle of Solferino. The last action he performed was as brilliant as it was daring. Seeing live pieces of cannon advancing, pro-51 tectcd by a body of Hulans, he addressed his meu, aud told them he woukl haA^e the foiirgon and canuons or die in the attempt. Drawing his sword, and grasping with his left hand his pistol, he cut his way through the cavalry guard with the loss of only two men wounded and one killed. The impetu- osity and suddenness of the attack was such as to cause the flight of several of the artillerymen, and two guns were deserted. Observing that the third was leaving the field under a small escort, without looking behind to see if he was supported, he rushed forward, grasped the muzzle, and with one bound strode across the piece. Whilst there he shot the furthest rider, and wounded the nearest one by hurling his \inloaded pistol at him. Two more of the enemy fell by his liaud, when some of liis men coming to his assistance, made nine prisoners, together with the wliole of the ammunition. On his return, whilst issuing some order.s, a few shots were still fircd^ and one s-truck the hero in the chest."52 449 Dissection of tlie head and neck, showing particularly the nerves and great vessels of the face and neck. 4:")0 Dissected ligaments of the knee joint. 4^1 Dissection of the elhow joint, showing the arteries. 452 Vertical dissection of the hrain, cast from nature. 4:"')3 A girl ten years of age, showing the spine laid open throughout its course, w-ith the connection established by its means be- tween the brain and the lower extremi- ties. 454 Skeleton of a child (injected), showing the nervous system. 455 Ditto, ditto. 45G The heart dissected, shosving auricles and ventricles. 457 A portion of the brain. 458 Model of the human brain dissected. (This takes to pieces, showing the internal structure of the brain.) 459 Four specimens of different dissections of the human eye. 400 Portion of the spine dissected, shoN\ing the ligaments and part of the venous cir- culation. 461 Dissection of the knee joint.53 462 A series of models from nature, illus- trating the process of iiicuLatiou, or the dcvelopmeut of the chicken. (See explanation on case). 463 Kidney; capsnle surrounded by adipose substance. 464 A foetus, 5th month, with the placenta. 465 Prostate gland, the vesiculiB semiuales and vasadeferentia—an opening in the middle lobe through the centre by the passing of a catheter. 466 Uterus vagina and portion of bladder— uterus small, vagina ulcerated, tubercles in left ovarium, abscess in right. 407 Testicle and spermatic cord—testicle solid by inflammation caused by a blow. 408 Julia Pastra^^a. The subject of this model was discovered amongst the tribe known by the name of Diggar Indians, inhabiting various parts of Mexico This tribe is considered the lowest and most degraded amongst the family of man. They are destitute of every attribute of civilisation ; they live in caves and feed on herbs and small insects and reptiles— such as locusts, grasshoppers, snails, wasps, &c —dried in the sun and crushed. The Indian woman with whom JuliaPastrana^54 was found professed a strong attacliment to lier, but declai-ed it was not her own, nor could she give any information as to Ler parentage, she merely stating that she found her in the Avoods. After her death the Governor of the state of Sinaloe, hearmg of this peculiar little creature, sent for her, had her christened, and kept her for many years in his household, until the year ]8o4, Avhen, with his consent, she commenced to travel, and visited all the principal cities of the United States until the year 1857, when she arrived in England. She possessed numerous virtues; she was kind, charitable and accomplished. She became acquainted with a Mexican interpreter of the name of Pastrana, and after some time became his wife ; after which she visited Russia. Her career was, howevei', soon ended, she died five days after giving birth to a child. 469 Infant of Julia Pastrana. 470 & 471 Full-length models of male and female Bosjesmen or Bushmen. Those curious specimens of humanity were exhibited in this country a few years ago.55 472 A full-leugfch figure, cUa.sected, sliov/ing the principal arteries, nerves auJ muscles. 473 Dissection of tlie body of a child, showing the nerves. 474 Model of a boy, eight years of age. The abdomen is laid open, sliOAving groups of worms in the intestines ; and also a scrofulous enlargement of the mesenteric glands.56 Patliological lioom.—Second Floor. 000 Disease of tlie tibia. 501 Bones of the upper extremity. 502 Bones of the hand and foot. 503 Curvature of the spine, with attachment of rib-s. 504 Fracture of tlie ankle. 505 Diseased elbow-joint. 506 Articulated bones of the lower extremity. 507 Diseased A^ertebraj. 508 Case of distortion of the upper extremity. 509 Compound fracture of the ankle-joint. 510 Dissection of tlie popliteal space. 511 Dislocation of the ankle-joint. 512 Curvature of the spine. 513 Deep-seated ulcer. 514 Popliteal aneurism. 515 Case containing six diflereut diseases of the heart. 516 Placentas and umbilical cords. 517 Encysted ova rial drop.sy, with numerous granular bodies lining the cysts ; the ovary has altogether disappeared, leav- ing only a v^estige of fimbriated extre- mity of follopiau tube. .518 Medullary sarcoma of the head of the57 fibula, of twelve months growth ; ampu- tatiou was perforined ; the patient died two days alterAvards. i) 19 Stricture of the urethra, one inch from the extremity of the glans peuis^ with considerable narrowing of the passage at the membranous portion of urethra, bebind which is a considerable sized abscess. The prostate appears to have been destroyed by abscess, as nothing remains in its place but a large cyst. Behind prostate gland, in situation of risht vesicula seniinales, is seen another abscess, whicli has no connection with the other two, but seems to have escaped the rif^ht vesicula, 520 Extensive inflammation of the knee joint, with ulceration of cartilage of femur, tibia and patella, to a very great extent. There appears to have been ■ several ex- ternal openings ; they are exceedingly thin, being mere shells. 521 Stump on which lisemorrhage has taken jjlace from sloughing after amputation. A ligature has been applied above tlie profundn, but without any good result; the bone is quite denuded of the soft parts and the end, and exfoliating.58 522 Fatty tumour. 523 Hydatid tumour. 524 Medullary tumour of te,stes of two yeard. 525 Stump of tliigli after aniputation, shows enlaro-ement aud bulbous condition of ner^'e. 526 Scirrhous tumour, with portions softening down. 537 Diseased heart of an old woman of seventy- eight, who died suddenly after stooping. 528 Diseased lung. 529 Enormous fatty tumour from the labium, with fibrous tumours on the uterus in the same patient. 5.30 Intestinal ruptiu-e. 531 Fine specimen of melanotic tumour. 532 Lobulated tumour. 533 Diseased lung. 534 Small pendulous fatty tumour. 535 The human brain, showing the ventricles. 536 Pendulous tumour from the labium. 537 Scirrhous tumour, with jiortions softening down. 538 Diseased patella. 539 Fatty timiour. 540 The spleen of Jolm Tluirtcll, executed for the murder of Mr. Ware (at Hertford), one of his gambling associates, on the 9 th January, 1824.59 1541 Diseased bone. 542 Dissected patella. 543 Thumb with flexor and extensor tendons torn ont of the muscles by some violent accident. 544 Diseased luug. 545 Case containing twelve different diseases of the stomacli. 546 Humid warts with concretions over the body. '547 Extraordinary case of cancer affecting the whole of the surrounding parts, modelled by permission of the authorities of the Hotel Dieu, Paris, in 1849. 548 Swelled testicle. 549 External piles or hajmorrhoids, effectually cured by Dr. R. J. Jordan without cau- terization, ligature or the knife. 550 Abscess in the lumbar region, consequent on a vitiated state of the blood. 5.51 Case of eyes showing various stages of dis- ease. 552 Wound from cancer in tlie female breast. 55•'3 llelaxation and distension of the seminal vessels with wasting of left testicle ; penis greatly reduced in size. •554 Inner membrane of the anus dissected, brinffinj; into view some varicose veins60 of considerable size, demonstrating the true nature of piles. 555 Head of a cliild born of a female wliose lui.sband had syphilis : the infant has in addition sores, &c., and also congenital chancres on the lips. . 55G The generative organs after treatment for relaxation and atrophy, restored to their former vigour by the use of the new remedies employed by Dr. B,. J. Jordan in his daily jiractice. 557 Extraordinary case of atrophy of the generative organs in an otherwise strongly deA^eloped muscular man, aged 32, who became addicted to the habit of self- abuse from the loss of his young wife, who died four months after marriage; the accidental visit to the present Museum in 18CO, caused the subject of the above to consult Dr. It J. J., who was fortu- nate enough to restore him tothefull])ower of his former vigour in nine months hy the use of a treatment pursued hj Dr. R. J. J. with unfailing success in all cases of impotence, loss of nervous and muscular power, and the other consequent .symptoms attendant upon mental and bodily affections.61 558 Sypliilitic sore under the penis, termed chancre, radically cured by Dr. R. J. Jordan without the use of mercury or any other mineral poison so detrimental to the constitution. i)59 Complicated case of paraphymosis and confirmed gleet. 5GO Section of the male pelvis, showing the bladder in a highly inflamed state caused by neglect and improper treatment. 5G1 Severe°aud virulent case of gouorrhiea, which, owing to neglect and injections being employed injudiciously, the follow- ino' symptoms Avere present : testicles painful to the touch and highly sensitive; buboes in both groins, one operated upon, the other much inflamed, which was greatly aggravated by an excitable and nervous temperament rendered so by early sexual incontinence. This case was most successfully Ircsated by Dr. E. J. Jordan, and became one of considerable interest, inasmuch as the erroneous treat- ment to which the patient had been sub- jected previous to consulting Dr. R, J. Jordan had brought on stricture, fee. 5G2 Case of fistula in perineo, consequent on urinous abscess, treated and cured by Dr. R. J. Jordan in 1860.G2 5G3 A hospital case, treated in Paris, sliowiag tlie venerea] disease in its third stage, pustules and sores covering the outward skin. 564 External view of the anus with three con- siderable tumours, known as piles. 5G5 Warts on the penis. 5GG Hydrocele, or Avater in the testicle, witli the operation for its removal by tapping. 5G7 Case of varicose veins. 5G8 Swelling in the groin, tlie effects of gonor- rha3a. 5G9 Hasmatocele of the testicle caused by the kick of a horse. 570 \ 571 572 573 V 574 ^ 575 Models taken from Dr. R. J. Jordan's dissections of the generative organs, male and female. 576 " 577 578 Case of venereal disease affecting the off- s])ring, caused by indiscriminate inter- course on the jjart of the father. 579 Syphilitic eruptions on the jialm of the hand. 580 Penijihigus syphiliticus on the .sole of the foot.63 o81 Case of ten syphilitic ulcers oi- cliaiicres, 582 Case of paraphymosis. 583 Operation for paraphymosis. In this model the ojDerator is seen rising the lancet, in order to make an incision in tlie fore- skin. bSi Operation for phymosis, performed in con- sequence of a chancre appearing behind the corona glandis. The model shows tlie operator in the act of forcing the forc^skin over the gland. 585 Amputation of the penis, caused Ijy gan- grene and mortification. Injected generative organs of human sub- ject and one of a whale. 591 Two sections of the male organ, showing it.s external and internal structure. 592 View of the generative organs after treat- ment for spermatorrhcea. 59.3 Tlie generative organs ^^artially laid open to show relaxation of the testicle, consecpient on self-abuse and incontinence, the jjeuis diminished in size, and the outward mem- Ijranes distended and weakened ; treated and cured by Dr. R. J. Jordan in two m on til 9. 587 588 589 59064 594 Condylomata. — This was a severe case consecjueiit on neglecting a chancre ; tlie whole of the surrounding parts became affected, and the whole of the system was seriously disturbed ; the antiseptic treat- ment was pursued witli the usual good results ; Dr. E.. ,J. Jordan restoring tlie pa- tient to joerfect health, and free from out- ward scars, in three mouths. ^i9n Model representing the ftetal circulation. .100 Malignant gonorrhcea with contracted fore- skin beliind the gland much enlarged, cured by Dr. R. J. Jordan, 18G0, and cured in a very short time by his own peculiar treatment, excluding mercury and other mineral poisons from the remedies employed. Oil7 Injected penis. 508 Intestinal rupture. Part of the intestines becoming displaced, the skin of the testi- cle is laid open to show the cairse of sickness felt when inpture takes place, 599 Injected penis. GOO Vegetation on and around the glans jDenis, GOL Acute pliagedrena burrowing beneath the integuments of the penis. G02 Chronic phagedsena, witli surrounding hardness, almost equal to tliat of true chancre, radically cured by Dr. Tv. J,65 Jordan, without any miueral or vegetable poison, in two months. 603 Mortitication of the glans penis, a very serious case, brought on by neglect. 61) i Destruction of the penis from syphilis owang to an injudicious treatment having been pursued, not a natural consequence of the disease, but owing to want of knowledge, administering and selecting the proper medicines. 605 Scirrhous enlargement of the testicle. 606 Bleeding piles. 607 Elephantiasis in a very young female infant. 608 Double stricture. 600 Testicle laid open, showing varicocele. 610 Imperfect erection during sleep, whilst emission is taking place. 611 Total prostration of the sexual organs, accompanied with a thin gluey mucous discharge, generally terminating in com- plete impotence. 612 Section of a inale pelvis, showing emission of semen, caused by pressure of the faeces. 613 A most interesting case, treated most suc- cessfully by Dr. E. J. Jordan, in 1859 ; the patient, late a resident in the Presi- dency of Bombay, suffered from partial06 impotence, caused by excess in early life, and enervating effects of climate, &c. 614 Appearance of the same parts after treat- ment. 615 View of the generative organs before dis- section, in a case of elongation and atrophy, consequent on self-abuse. 616 Appearance of the testicle laid open, in order to show varicocele and atrophy of the generative organs. 617 Case containing models of different stages of nervous and muscular relaxation, shown in the face and generative organs. 618 Disease of the spermatic cord, and elonga- tion of the I'iglit testicle. 619 Expression of the face in one suffering li-om -spermatorrhoea, caused by self- abuse. 620 Improved appearance after treatment, when the drain on the constitution is lessened. 621 Ulceration of the prostate gland, consequent on enlargement, caused by continued " sexual excesses ; generally prevented ar- riving at tliis stage by remedies being taken on the first symptoms manifestiug themselves. 622 The sexual organs of a person, a native of67 JFniuce. Tlic pemH attached to the scrotum. The uviiie is evacuated thi'ough an apei'tiii'e closely resembling the vagina. 623 Rupture of the scrotum. 624r Diseased bone in the foot. 625 Slousfhins: sore. 626 Varicose veins. 627 Diseased joint. 628 Tumour. 629 \ 630 ( 631 / Diseases of the foot. 633 ,! 634 Tumour, 635 Bladder. 636 Ncevus. 637 Penis. 638 Hare lip. 639 Enlarged noevus. 640 Impregnation of five ova. 632 641 642 643 644 645 646 Diseases of the foot. E 268 ljJ7 Sections of the generative organs, showing the seminal vessels, prostate gland, bladder, Arc, and the cause of sperma- torrhoea. 648 Scirrhous testicle. 619 Severe case of prolapsus. 650 The testicle and several veins and arteries. 651 Scirrhous testicle. 652 Cancer of the uterus. 653 Enlarged inguinal glands. 654 Scii-rhons testicle. 655 Douljle strictnre. 656 Sections of the female organs, showing par- ticularly the ovaries uterus, fallopian tubes, &c. 657 Diseased vertebrte. 658 Two buboes, one suppurating, the other highly inflamed. This case was treated and cured by Dr. K. J. Jordan. G59 Enlargement of the prostate gland, conse- quent on excesses of various kinds. 660 Tertiary symptons of the venereal disease, extending over the entire body. 661 The same case, three weeks later, after having been under Dr. R. J. Jordan's antiseptic treatment. It will be notice- able that the ulcers, before deep and inflamed, are seen filling up and fading , away.69 6G'2 Two tumours in tlie inguinal region, of the size of an egg, called buboes. C6 5 Slonglaing sore afiecting the peuis, the pre- puce almost destroyed as well as the glands. Treated and cured by Dr. E. J. Jordan, in 1860, without the use of mer- cury iuternally or externally. I' 1)4 Syphilitic ulcers or chancres on the pi-epuce and gland. I lio Scal^Viy pustiiles and humid warts, with concrete secretions over the body. C(i6 \ '.S 19 70 pi.;) Amputations of the arm and hand, &c. 673 674 675 676 677 678 Negro, with syphilitic sores. 679 Case of secondary venereal symptoms and impaired constitution, caused by self-abuse and incontinence in early life. 680 Salivation, the frightful result of the injurious use of mei'cury.70 681 Inflamed boil. 682 CEdema glottides; tlie epiglottis quite erect. 683 Bladder, with very inacli enlarged third lobe of prostate, forming ob.strnction to the yjassage of the catheter, as will be seen in preparation, there being several false passages made through the third lobe into the bhadder. The prostate gland is altogether very much enlarged, and the bladder in a saccdated con- dition. 684 Pharynx, with a large piece of meat filling its cavity and presing ui^on the epiglottis, producing suffocation. 685 Case containing twelve diff'erent diseases of the lungs. 686 Cancer of the tongue, extending into the phai'yux. 687 Large sloughing ulcer of mucous membrane of intestine. 688 Umbilical hernia, with old adhesion of intestine to the sac. 689 A portion of duodenum, sho\\iug biliary duct, with a calculus lodged in it. 690 This preparation, ulcer of mucous mem- brane, from case of fever. 691 Bottle containing five specimens of polypi, I believe nasal. 692 Part of the lower j a w.71 G93 Canceroustumourof lower jaw (implicating the molar teetli), which, with two bi- cuspid teeth, has been excised. Malignant disease of the lower jaw, com- mencing about middle molar tooth and exteudiiio: to the articulation. Extensive ulceration of the tongue, pharynx and glottis, apparently cancerous. Part of the trachea, prejiared and dissected. Fungoid tumour surrounding the eye. Kuptured intestine, apparently a portion of lower end of small intestine. I be- lieve the result of accident. Case containing twelve different diseases of the brain. 694 G95 696 697 698 699 700 701 702 70.3 704 705 706 707 708 709 710 711 712 Casts taken from nature of various curva- tures of the spine, in different stages. Various amputations of the fingers, taken from nature.72 713 Fatty tumour. 714 Stricture of large iutestine. 715 Melanosis of the eye. 716 Diseases of both maxillary Loues, fimgoicl tumours appear to be growing in the antrum of both bones, the spongy bones of nose are also implicated. 717 Intussusception, of small intestine into co3Cum, through illio-colic valve. From the size of intestine T should judge it to be from a child of ten or twelve years 718 Cancer of the rectum. There has been extensive ulceration of mucous mem- brane. A large perforation is seen ojjening into the peritoneal cavity, the intestine having ulcerated into recto- vesical iDouch. 719 Large umbilical hernia. Contents of sac are a considerable portion of small intestines and mesentery. The hernia has been of long standing, the intestine being firmly agglutinated together, and adherent to the hernial sac. 7 20 Imperforate rectum ; it appears as if the opei-ation had been performed without any siiceessful result. 721 A large piece of bone in this case is seen73 obstructing the ajsopbagus and producing ulceration into the trachea. 722 Gun-shot wound of the neck, the ball haA^ng entered the pharynx. 723 Case showiag twelve diseases of tlie intestines. '-94 ) Cases of ampi;tations of the upper ex- i'^^ i tremity, the bones being extensively '" ' diseased. 726 Fungoid disea.se of bones of the tarsus. 727 Heart, lung.s, and trachea of a child, in which the operation of tracheotomy had been performed. 728 Very small femoral hernia, a portion of omentum firmly adherent to the edge of the sac. 729 Cancerous ulceration of the external ear. 730 Large melanotic tiimour, involving the whole eye. 731 Melanotic tnmour in the eye. 732 The human eye dissected, showing part of optic nerve. 733 Tumonr snrrounding optic nerve and pressing upon the eye-ball, must have nearly filled tlie orbit. 734 Tumour in the eye. 735 Melanosis of the eye. 736 Tumour in the eye.74 737 Tumour iu vitreous humour. 738 Pericarditis. 739 Omental femoral lieruia. 740 Old inguinal hernia artery injected, to show course of epigastric. 741 Extensive disease of the fore-arm, with mortification of the hand ; am2:)utatiou has been performed. 742 Mortification of the foot from diseased heart. 743 Tibia and fibula, shattered much by a bul- let-wouod. 744 Fractured patella. The bullet struck the patella on the right side at its base, and then lodged in the condyle on the right side. 745 Portion of femur, split through a consider- able length of .shaft, a portion of which Avas carried aAvay by the shot. 746 Fracture of portions of femur, with sub- sequent necrosis of the shaft. 747 Fractured femur, bullet lodged in condyle. 748 In this case the bullet appears to have passed through the head of the tibia, fracturing it and wounding the joiut. Inflammationensued and amputation was performed. 749 Ulceration of cartilages of knee-joint.75 750 Fracture of the lower part of the radius, showing reunion of the bone. 751 Fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur. 752 Upper part of the tibia, showing the aper- ture caused by a bullet passing through the bone. 753 Oast of skull, showing fracture of occipital bone. 7ott Cast of skull, showing the operation of trephining. 755 Cast of skull taken from nature, showing destruction of the frontal bone from neglected case of the venereal disease. 756 Fracture of a portion of the ilhum. 757 Necrosis of humerus. 758 Neci-osis of humerus after amputation. 759 Bullet-wound through elbow, causing dis- ease of the joint. 760 Fractured patella from musket-ball, enter- ing the knee-joint and lodging in the condyle of femur. 761 762 Shattered condition of lower end of hu- merus. 76.3 Portion of fractured skull, trephined. 764 Fractured humerus, Avith splintered condi- tion of the bone.70 765 Fracture of the upper part of the humerus. 766 Large tumour removed from female breast. 7 67 Small tumour. 768 Small fatty tumour. 769 Caucer of the uteriis. 770 Do. do. Diseases of iSjiine. 771 Angular curvature of the sui^erior dorsal vertebrfe^ with caries of the bodies of six or seven. This is very remarkable, inasmuch as the transverse process of seventh cervical is brought forwai'd, as nearly to touch the first rib, and the body of seventh cervical is nearly in contact with the body of seventh dorsal. Tliis extreme curvature in the upper part of the spine supporting the ribs must have greatly interfered with circu- lation, respiration, &;c. 772 Caries about the middle of the lumbar vertebrae, with displacement, as though the result of accident. There is con- siderable narrowing of the medullary canal at one point. 773 Caries of the bodies of dentata, thi)-d, fourth and fifth cei-vical vertebra?. Here,77 lis in most cases, tlie intervertebral sub- stance is the last to become absorbed. 771 Carles of tlie bodies of nine inferior dorsal vertebrae and three upper lumbar, with great distortion of the spine, the line of column being so much altered as to give us a right angle, formed by a line drawn in the plane of dorsal, as compared with that of lumbar vertebrte. There has been a large abscess, which, together with curvature, has completely changed the course of aorta. It will be seen doubled upon itself at about an angle of 45, no doubt very much interfering with the circulation in lower part of the body and extremities. Brain and its Membranes. 175 A portion of one of the hemispheres of the cerebrum, with great extravasation of blood into the substance as well as the membranes. The brain has all the appearance of injury from some severe accident, most likely fracture of the skull, with depression of bone, the brain and membranes being torn.78 776 A portion of duraujater, M'itli several pieces of bone adhering to it. In tbis case there must have been severe fracture of the skull just over the longitudinal sinus. It M-ill be seen in the jjreparation that the duramater has been ruptured into the sinus, a black probe is intro- duced to show it, subsequently an abscess has been formed, as ulceration of diu-a- mater was going on at time of death. 777 Tumour about the size of a chestnut, on the inner surface of the duramater; it has all the appearance of being malig- nant. Heart and Artery. 778 Aneurism of descending aorta dry. The opening appears to be in the chest. 779 Artery, femoral, showing the plug of co- agulum in the vessel above the ligature, which had not been removed at the time the preparation Avas obtained. 780 Ossific deposit in descending aorta. 781 Aneurism of arch of aorta ju?t before sivinsr off innominata. The sac extends backwards on right side to the trachea, into which it has ulcerated.79 782 Ossification of aorta. 783 Ulceration of pharynx, glottis and epi- glottis, with destruction of the parts, apparently chronic. 784 \ 785 7.M5 787 788 I Casts from nature, representing various l";^ ) diseases of the spine and neck ; also l{[ 1 amputation of the fingers, &c., &c. 793 794 795 796 797 ■ 798 Fracture of the bodies of deutata and next vertebra. 799 Necrosed femur after Amputation. 800 Shattered condition of the upper part of the humerus. 801 A portion of fractured femiu-. 802 Bullet-wound through spinous process of lumbar vertebra into spinal caual. 803 Portion of femur, to show the lines of fracture.80 804 Fracture of the head of the humerus, with the bullet impacted in the epiphysis, as well as some portion of red cloth, the head of the bone is split neai'ly through. 805 Bullet lodged in the body of a vertebra, after fracturing the arch and transverse process. 806 A portion of fractured spinal column. 807 Disease of the upper jaw dissected. 808 Haemorrhoids, showing the coagulated blood in them after hardening in spirit. 809 A portion of the intestine, injected. 810 Trachea of child Avith false membrane, moulded tubularly in trachea and bron- chial tubes. 811 The stomach, iujected. 812 A portion of the intestines, iujected. 813 Do. do. 814 Enchondromatons tumour, implicating first phalanx of the linger. 815 Sequestrum from tibia. 816 Small thickened bladder. 817 A very fine specimen of cerous cysts from the uterus. 818 Pendulous tumour from the labium. 819 General inflammation and ulceration of the cartilages of the knee-joint. 820 Euchondromatous tumour on cartilage of rib.81 821 Small fungoid tumour of skin. 822 Cancer of the lip. 823 Stumi") after amputation below the knee. There is enlai-ged bulbous nerve, the ex- tremity of which appears exposed, the stumj) not having healed. 824 Circumscribed ulceration of cartila2;e on the condyles of the femui\ This is the kind of ulceration which has the woroi- eaten appearance confined to isolated spots, with the surrounding cartilage not unfrecjuently presenting a healthy con- dition. There appears to have been no general inflammation of the synovial membrane, but carious condition of bone. 825 Fungoid testis, the surface beneath the tunica vaginalis presenting a tubercular appearance. 826 Cancer of the penis. 827 Two large glands found iu the cbelonias and reptilia. They are connected with the process of generation. 828 Cancerous disease of uterus and vagina, ■with extensive ulceration of tlie latter, there beiug fistulous opening into rec- tum, just above which there is stricture of gut. 829 Fibrous tumour of the uterua82 830 Cystic disease of the testis. 831 Fungoid ttimoiir of the little toe. 832 Amputation of foot, apparently after fr( bite. 833 Caries of metatarsal Ijoue of great toe. 834n 835 836 837 838 839 840 841 843 > Casts taken from nature of various diseases 844 ( of the face, head and neck, &c. 845 846 847 848 849 850 851 852 I 853 854 Diseased bone, tibia. 855 Abscess of the head of the tibia. J opening83 tlie kuee joint subsequently became in- volved in the disease. Amputation was performed. ■856 Diseased bones, the ulna and lower part of the humerus. 857 ■8-38 t)b]itpie comminuted fracture of the tibia at its inferior extremity, of recent occurrence, as will be seen by the small amount of union which has taken place, there being only a small amount of pro- visional callous thro\vn out. =8.59 Enormously thickened bladder, with old stricture at the neck, where there has been a false passage made into the bladder, vicl probe introduced into two small bands of membrane, the remains of urethra at the strictured part. 860 Small thickened bladder. 861 Clu-onic vascularity of mucous membrane of the bladder, with abscess and sinuses in prostate gland and considerable thick- ening of the bladder. 362 Diseased uterus. 363 Enlarged prostate, with very large third lobe. There appears to have been false passages made through it, from its ragged edges; where the bougie enters the84 bladder is small and exceedingly thick. Tliis preparation shows also the opera- tion for stone. 864 Excision of the elbow-joint, for ulceration of cartilage and bone. 8G5 Kidney with abscess communicating with the pelvis. 866 Third lobe of prostate gland ju.st beginning to be enlarged, two false passages made through it. Mucous membrane of blad- | der appears to be in a sloughing con- dition. 867 Portion of lung. 868 Bladder enlarged and thickened. Mamma, 869 Cystic sarcoma of the mamma, the prepa- ration contains two large cysts, the one of which is emptied of its contents, the other contains a quantity of medullary- like matter. 870 Cancerous tumour in mamma. There are some small cysts in this preparation con- taining soft" matter, other parts are harder and resemble the soft fibrous tumour.85 871 Scirrlious; disease in the centre of the mamma. This jDrcpai'atiou shows the (h'awing in of the nipple in the early stage of the disease. S72 Cystic disease of the mamma. In tliis case there has been absorption of the whole ghmd, little has remained but the indurated walls of the sacs. There is a very marked difference between this cystic disease and common scirrhus, which generally implicates the nipple, eA-en in the early stage, whereas in this preparation the nipjile is in its normal condition, although nearly the whole of the fat surrounding the gland has disappeared. 873 Fract lire of the fibula about its middle There must have been dislocation or fracture of tibia in this case, the fibula being shortened by an inch, it has overlapped and united side to side. 874 Fracture of the lower end of the fibula into the ankle-joint. There appears to have been great injury done to the joint at the time of the accident, the internal malleolus appears to have been fractured. Inflammation of the joint, with absorp- tion of cartilage, has followed, and it may86 be presumed that amputation was re- sorted to. 875 Caiies of the euds of the shafts of femur and tibia in a young subject ; the epiphysis not being united, and appa- rently not mucb affected by disease. There has been iuflamniatiou of the knee-joint, with destruction of cartilage.^ The bones have all the ap])earance of those from strumous cases, the shatts being in a state of atrophy. 876 Fracture of olecranon in the elbow-jomt, Avitli dislocation of radius upwards and forwards, rupturing coronary ligament and resting on condyle of humerus. 877 Fracture of neck of thigh-bone, also through the trochanter in several places, head of bone driven into shaft. 878 General inflammation and ulceration of the cartilages of the knee-joint. 879 Secpiestrum of femur after fracture. 880 Necrosis of clavicle. 881 Ulceration of cartilage of head of femur in a young subject, with absorption of bones. 882 Caries of head of humerus, removed by amputation at the shoirlder-joint. 883 Necrosis, following amputation of thigh.87 8S4 Necrosis of metiitiirsal bone, susLaining little toe. NSo Sequestrum from tibia. ySli Excision of elbow-joiut for caries. 887 Uric acid, with crusty phosphates, S88 Biliary calculus, cholesfcerine. 889 Caries of the bones of the finger. 890 Neci'osis of first phalanx of thumb. S91 Anchylosis of metatarsal bone to phalanx of great toe after amputation. 893 Necrosis of tibia in a young subject. There is a secjuestrnm of nearly the whole shaft, with new bones formingf around it. There has been ulceration of cartilage in ankle-joint, with dead bone in ej^iphysis. 894 Number of small fatty tumours. 895 896 Schirrous testes. 897 Caries of the head of humerus, amputated. 898 Necro.sis foliowiuo- fracture of the thish bone of a common fowl. 899 Caries of metacarpal bone of finger. 900 Enormously enlarged clavicle. 901 Diseased bone. 902 Ligaments of the hip-joint. 903 Secp;estrum after amputation.1 88 904 Small tumour growing from first phalanx of finger. 905 Case containing diseased bones. 90C Case containing tlu-ee skulls, showing syphilis and hydrocephalus. 907 Small encysted tumour. 908 Fracture of the neck of the thigh-hone united. 909 Excision of the elbow-joint, for idceration of cartilage and bone. 910 Necrosis of fomur after amputation. 911 Caries of the patella. 912 Portion of skull, showing the operation of trephining. 913 Curvature of spine. 9U Destruction of orbit bones of the nose and sphenoid. Apparently a shot has ])assed in at the obit and through spheroid bone, passing out behind mastoid process of temporal bone. 915 Case containing human skulls (very fine specimens). 916 Fusible calculus. 917 Oxalate of lime, or midberry calculus. _ 918 Fusible calculus, from female, by dilatation. 919 Uric acid calcalu.s, with crust of fusible calculus. 920 Uric acid, with crust of earthy p.hosphates.89 921 Oxalate of lime, or umlbeny calculus. 922 Bougie incrusted with phosphates. 923 Uric acid, with crust of phosphates. 924 Uric acid, with prolongations of phos- phates (rare sj^ecimeu). 925 Malformation of pelvis in a young girl. 926 Case containing the vertebra3 and ribs. 927 Full-length figure, used for the purposes of lecturing, sho\ving all the internal organs of the body, with the muscles, arteries, veins, nerves, (fee. 928 Case containing various diseased bones, skulls, &c. 929 Case taken from nature of a youth who practised onanism and died from the effects, showing the brain dissected after death. 930 Head of foetus, showing the arteries in- jected. 931 A magnified eye, which can he taken to pieces as follows : the white tunic or sclerotic, the cornea, the iris with the pupil, the crystalline lens with its cap- sule, the vitreous humour, the optic nerve, and the muscles. 932 Full-length male figure, showing the com- plete dissection of the human frame. 933 Case containing various diseased bones, (fee.90 934 Aneurism of descending aorta. The sac of considerable size, pressing upon the bodies of four of the inferior dorsal ver- tebrfB, a large portion of which are ab- sorbed. 935 Full-leugth figure of a child, showiug the venereal eruption inherited from the father. 93(j Sacculated bladder containing calculi. The one on posterior side of bladder is nearly as large as itself. The operation for lith<:)tomy had been performed, but with- out success, ii being impossible to reach the calculus in these pouches. 937 Full-length figure, used for the purposes of lecturing, showing 24 different diseases on the one model. 938 Case containing various diseased bones. _ 939 Natural preparation of the heart, wiih aorta dissected. 940 Do. lIo. 941 Bladder, with very much enlarged third lobe of ])rostate, forming obstruction to the passage of the catheter, as will be seen in preparation, there being several false passages made. 942 Gun-shot wound of the neck, the ball hav- ing entered the pharynx.91 943 Section of the male pelvis, showing the small intestine ; the coecum ; the kidney laid open ; ureter, bladder, and urethra ; rectum ; vesiculre seminales, and vas de- ferens, testicle, ttc, &c. m4 Model of the eai-, enlarged ; the external parts take to pieces, and show the inter- nal structure.llUvfth 9::: r\i("'^ V IMPORTANT CAUTION. In order to prevent the dangerous consequences ensuing from the treatment pursued by unqualified pretenders to medical skill, the Patient should, prepai'atory to placing his health, and consequent future welfare, in jeopardy, insist upon an exami- nation of their claims. Dr. Jordan, in publishing his Diplomas, con- siders such a course imperative, as several un- qualified persons have assumed his name; he is therefore compelled to avail himself of those means left at his disposal, to prove his legitimate position. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR INVALIDS. ■ Dr. R. .J. .JORDAN ' Having for many years lui.H devoted lii;; exclusive attention to the Pliysiology and Diseases of the Urinary and Gmerative Organs, and having had great experience in the treatment of . the same, both in the principal ContineiUal JlospUals, as well as in private practice, is enabled to treat with the greatest jMssiblc success, cases of Nervous Debility, Mental Illusions, Despon- dency, Morbid Imagination, Impolency, Sexual Weakness, and other AflFections of the Nervous System, arising from derange- ment of the Generative Organs, as well as all Diseases of the oexual Organs themselves. Hours of Consultation : Bail!/ from 11 till 8. Stmdays excepted. Country Patients may obtain advice by letter {on enclosing a 'Fee of One Pound), which letter can bo signed either with the Patient's name, or with initials, such as A.B., X.Y.Z., or any others he may prefer.COPY OF DIPLOMA. THE KOTAL COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS, EDINBURGH. A,t tliie request of the President and FeUows assembled, has determined to admit the erudite ROBERT JACOB JORDAN INTO THE NUMBER OF THEIR LICENTIATES. It therefore receives him into the class of Licentiates, and confers upon him all the privileges which are en- joyed by the Licentiates of the College. In testimony of which it has ordered that he should' be presented with this Diploma, certified by the seal, and with the signatures of the President and Secretary. Passed at Edinburgh, on the Eighteenth day oi June, One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Nine. Alex. "Wood, President. D. E. Haldake, Secretary. COPY OF DIPLOMA. Quae Prosunt Omnibus Ortes. KNOW all Men by these presents : That We the Court of Examiis-eks of the ROYAL COLLEGE OP SURGEONS OF ENGLAND HAVE DELTBERATELT EXAMINED Mr. ROBERT JACOB JORDAN, And have foimd him to be fit and capable to exerck the A.rt and Science of Surgeiy. "We therefore adm. him a Member of the Colle^'e.In "Witness whereof, We have subscribed our names, and have caused the common seal of tlie College to be affixed hereunto. Dated the Fourth day of February, in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Eight Hundred and Fifty-Nine. (Signed) Joseph Henry Green, President. James MoNCRiEFF Arnott, | yjce-Presidents.' John F. South, S Fredeeic C. Sket, J. HODSON, Thos. Wormald. Wm, La-wrence, Edward Stanley, C^sAR H. Hawkins, James Luke, Enrolled by Edm. Belfour, Secretary. (No. 6,587.) Translated Copy of the Diploma of Doctor of Medicine in the Eoyal University of Erlangen. in the name ot our •lord, ambn. Under the Patronage of THE MOST AUGUST AND MIGHTY SOVEREIGN LORD MAXIMILIAN II. KING OF BAVARIA, THE MOST MAQNIBICENT AND CLEMENT GOVERNOR 01 OCR UNIVERSITY. Dr. JOHN MICHAEL LEUPOLDT, Ordinary Public Professor of Pathology, General and Special Therapeutics and History of Medicine, President of the Senate appointed to test the knowledge of Medical Candidates, Dean and Provost of the Medical Council, Member of tlte C»s. Leopold Car. Academy of Natural History, of the rhysico-Medical Society of Erlangen, &c. &c. &c. ;K.niglit of the Order of St. Michael, JUean and Promoter of tlie Faculty of Physicians legally appointed to grant Degrees,UAS DULY CONFERRED OK ROBERT JACOB JORDAN, MEMBER OF THE ROTAL COLLEfiE OF SURGEONS OF EXGLAXL)-, After liis passing in due and regular form a strict exami- uatioD, both written and oral, in the art and science of medicine, and proving his superior knowledge thereof, and after presenting an inaugural dissertation on THE DISEASES OF THE SKIN, The degree, rights, and privileges of Doctor of ilediciuc, Surgery, and Midwifery, on the 19th of February, 1859. in accordance with the decree of the Gracious Faculty of Phy- sicians, in the Royal Frederico-Alesandrina University of Erlangen, THE MOST EXALTED AND NOBLE 'Dr. RUDOLPH DeRAUMER, Puhlic Ordinary Professor of German Languages and Literature, Being the Excellent Vice-Rector. That this Diploma has been regularly conferred is attested by the great seals, both of the Royal University and of the Medical Faculty, as well as by the signatures of the Dean and Assessors of the same Faculty, of the Excellent Yice- Rector, and of the Secretary of the University. Dr. Maximilianus Gtjiltelmcs Foerster, Syndious & Secretarius Universitatis. Dr. R. De Raumer, Proctor. J. M. Leupoldt, Ord. Med. H. S. Desaung. Dr. Joan Eugenius Presslurt, Ord. Med. Assessor. Dr. Joannes Georgius Fredertcus Will. Ord. Med. Assessor. Dr. Gultgertius Gaerlach, Ord. Med. Assessor. CvnoL. WuERSCH, Med. &Ord. Med. Assessor.f" INTRODUCTION. The young plant in its state of nature often, requires tending and pruning, for evil is often attendant upon good, Nature giving the thorn to the rose, and the tares with the corn. To man is left the duty of relieving the good,, teaching him the lesson, that he must labour with the sweat of the brow his mother earth. Since we are sure of the existence of the evil,, it becomes our duty to root it out, by all means, legitimate and direct, or if needs be, indirectly; a greater one may even require a lesser one to be employed; a limb often having to be sacrificed for the preservation of the body. Fathers, tutors, instructors, all ye who have the care of the rising generation—ye to whom the future welfare of all is entrusted—2- seek to restore that tone which existed mo- rally, as well as materially, in the population of England some six or seven generations back. Throughout that chain of ancestry, every successive father and mother have transmitted to their offspring a fainter bloom, a more delicate and briefer beauty, a shghter phy- sical frame, and a character of less force and solidity than their own. Life's stream has be- come attenuated, and the cause of all this lies in an insane vice being practised in secret and unrestrained. Your path Ues open; act in concert; set aside all false dehcacy, and " spare not the rod." Give your advice orally: if not con- venient, let this work be left so that a perusal may be made: underline those passages you think best suited to the reader. Shape it as you like, but let not a young and ardent imagi- nation be allowed to enter on the career of life without a mentor, if it be but the mute monitor ot this work. Methinks I hear objections raised, such as, " What! place a book of this kind in the hand of my son, and show him all these pictures ?" etc. And pray why not ? The reading3 of the medical part will give him—a knowledge which will not alone lift up his soul with awe to his Creator, but will also teach him the wisdom of using the precious gifts of heaven in moderation, from the certain assurance that ill and fatal consequences must ensue iaj recklessly abandoning himself to his passions. Ere ye censure this work, sift its spirit, and if there be one word which would tend to aught save to the benefit of health and morality, I would erase it from the page, and deem that word a blot which would fix a stain on that profession of which I have the honour of being a member. In reading over all the diseases consequent on immoral intercourse,, he will at once find the truthfulness of the assertions made, die pains to be expected, with the certain penalty for trans- gressing the code of laws instituted by divine authority. The remarks, and further original matter, will but show him that " though dis- ^ tance lends enchantment to the view," a closer inspection removes the ideal, and reality dis- covers the chasm beneath the illusive covering In order to catch elephants, a large pit is dug, over which branches, grass, and shrubs are4 placed, so as to appear like a continuation of the ground; the scream of the female elephant is then caused to be heard, when a number of the species listen and follow the sound. The ill- fated animals, unaware of their danger, attempt to pass, and fall in the trap laid for them by their captors. And shall it be allowed that the pitfalls of vice and disease shall remain unnoticed by those whose duty it is to guard the inexpe- rienced? Surely the conscientious man, who knows the existing evil, cannot, nay, will not dare withhold that knowledge, which sooner or later must be acquired in the mixed society of the world's school. Masturbation, that great cause of evil, entails diseases both numerous and varied, and as calamitous as mortal. This evil is believed by many to be a "sealed book," but daily experience proves the contrary. Paul said, "To the pure all things are pure;"' but where the mind is imbued with vicious thoughts, the sacred volume itself may administer to' the morbid feelings, and poison be extracted from the purest of sources. There are three classes of beings. I grant that one of these will5 pursue the path of rectitude, nor diverge from their moral perception, which seems to be innate, whilst an equal number may, in opposition to precept and example, pursue the broad road of evil, becoming to their fellow-creatures warning heacons and examples. They seem indeed to be the willing victims fated to perdition. Upon the two former little effect will [he produced, since the good will remain firm to their pur- pose, and the vicious continue in that career into which their insane passions have thrown them. But a great duty is left to be performed towards the last, the great majority, who may be led right or wrong, according to the ways pointed out by those with whom they are in daily intercourse. It is for the wavering, the gentle, confiding, who look up to others for guidance; for those who feel within themselves a necessity to have some one to tell them how to act; and, possessing passions stronger than they can well command, require not alone the ad- vice of the moral instructor, but also have need, over and above, of the art of the medical man, that he may prescribe for them a mode of living, to regulate their diet, their manner of6 sleeping, and even theh- amusements. It was to escape from their passions and exciting causes that the ascetics of former days sought the se- cluded caverns and dwellings, far from the haunts of man, and were saved by being surrounded by the works of nature, whilst offering up their prayers to nature's God. Paul says, in Corin- thians, chapter 7, relative to the continency of man, " If they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn." Here, then, is a remedy. If, at a proper period of life, certain desires make themsekes felt, men should not remain single; for it is to the exces- sive number of bachelors may be ascribed that of unfortmiate and degraded women. They are in exact proportion to each other. The female sex at present outnumbers that of the male, and it need not be added, that if celibacy oia the male part is continued, women must become that which is the plague-spot of so- ciety. Conjugal infidelity, domestic grievances, diseases transmitted, separations, divorces, and even murder, are the consequence of man's in- continency. If man was first temjited by woman to taste the forbidden fruit, he has made herfeel the punishment, and retaliated by being her tempter and tyrant ever since. But God punishes the oppressors, and man in his turn becomes the victim of his own actions. Matri- monial love is a spark of heavenly fire, vv'hich shines ever pure and bright, as when it leaves its native region. This love is the centre to which converge all physical sensations, and which, uniting with the sentiments derived from the Divinity itself, gives a foretaste, an idea of immortality. Nature has assigned to this exquisite and . virtuous passion (designed to be the means of * perpetuating human life) all the animal seti- sations of the body, combined with the senti- ments of the soul. This love presents, not only the nature of our wants, but the instinct of our misery, producing protection, assistance, con- fidence, support, repose, and all the sublime instincts which elevate man above humanity. Innocence, candour, sincerity, modesty, gene- rosity, heroism, holy faith, are all felt and ex- pressed by those who possess this sublime passion, assuming in the soul the characters of religion and virtue. A happy pair exchanges c8 the tender vow of everlasting affection: lost at times in a religious feeling, they consider each other as beings of a superior order. In the widely-extended universe they behold no other felicity but that of living and dying toge- ther ; or, rather, they have lost all sight of death. Holy love transports them into ages of infinite duration, and death seems to them only the transition to an eternal union. Even when des- tiny separates them, little consolation can be afforded them by friendship or fortune: they had tasted heavenly joys, and languish on earth long after their separation. When age even has frozen up the current of sense, aftei having been distracted by numberless anxie- ties foreign to the heart, the bosom still palpi- tates at sisiht of the tomb which contains the object once so purely and tenderly loved. It is to the charms of virtue, and the sentiment of her divine attributes, love is indebted for all that enthusiastic energy, the cause of so many glorious deeds which crowd the page of history. •■ All the works of nature have for their end to supply the wants of man, and all the sentiments of man should have for their principle, the Deity.9 Nature has given to man the knowledge of nearly all her works, whilst the instinct of the Deity renders man superior to the laws of na- ture. It is this instinct, I hope, which has caused me (as it has done others) to write and disseminate a truth which must be made known; and, though censure may fall at times on those who are free from this insane passion, it will more often bring home the truth to the hearts of the guilty. Better by far to write conscien- tiously, and with truth, and the pen scathe the flesh, than gloss over and seek to mystify an authenticated vice from fear of offending the over fastidious, who, perhaps, would screen themselves by a disavowal, and thus try to prove its non-existence in their unbelief. Truth cannot be denied; truth is immortal, and will ever claim pre-eminence : sent as a boon to mankind, she cannot lie long hidden ; thouo-h naked, and often required to be clothed to suit the fashion of the day, her rule on earth, ema- nating from heaven, must be attended to and obeyed. There are certain moments in every man's life when the unspoken vow is made, called10 forth by some great truth which does not come by reasoning or reflection, but bursts on the mind as if by inspiration. Though circum- stances sometimes prevent the fulfilment of the heart's fondest wishes emanating from the soul's immortal fire, the desire remains; the vision is ever present, shining forth in all its native beauty and splendour. Thus did the great evil strike me, after a case which will be mentioned in the course of this work, and I at once followed the inward impvilse, and have, ever since, made those diseases my principal study. I have not re- gretted the decision I came to, and I trust that my future success may be as complete as the past has proved. It is hoped that the present work may be read with soberness of mind and great attention, not skimmed, for there is not a word Avritten down without its purposed end. The non-profes- sional understanding cannot at once grasp all the technicalities, "the fruit of ages." Yet " seek, and thou shult find;" whilst re- membering that " knowledge is power." The present subject rc(|uires all our aUciilion, being11 the one of all others that will force itself on our knowledge at one time or other, when least expected, and when, perchance, too late to be of service. A danger known and met, is half conquered. Would tliat by hiding the vices of our natures we could free our- selves from their grasp, and cause them to loosen their hold on society at large. The one to which allusion is made is that of Onan, men- tioned in the 38th chapter of Genesis, and there and then pimished by the ofFended Deity with I immediate death. There is a great meaning in being mentioned so distinctly and plainly, and in so early a portion of the Holy Book. Shall the Scripture speak a sentence to the world, and shall man evade the subject? Shall so great a sin be mentioned without an object ? No ; the proof of its existence is there authen- ticated, and the present age cannot lay claim to a greater share of morality than the past. The vice of Onanism (also called masturbation and self-abuse) has existed, continues, and will exist, spite of the vain efForts of hiding the facts. " Tlie shame of man belongs to man: ' let an honest zeal prompt each one to take the12 evil as it stands, and let us serve our fellow men, by boldly standing forth with honest pur- pose and truthfulness." Silence on a subject of such vital import- . ance would be sinful; and can the medical man hesitate who stands pledged to perform the duties incumbent on his profession, whicli forms one of the three, " where the overbur- thened heart seeks for relief when too heavily oppressed?" The divine, doctor, and lawyer, are those to whom all must be confided if alle- viation of trouble be sought. The medical man has duties to perform, of a na- ture that require, in addition to his professional knowledge, charity, benevolence, patience, and, above all, discretion. He must become the recipient of all the secret thoughts and actions I of his patient, and the very intimacy must pro- duce a feeling of friendship, which links toge- ther the benefactor and benefited. Who can \ pourtray the inward satisfaction felt, when a fellow-creature has been restored to health, wlio seemed like a shadow of desolation, whose existence seemed on the point of termination. "Wlien such a being once more greets the loved13 ones, and presses the hand of the one who (under heaven's protection) saved and restored him,—it is then that the breast of the " friend in 'need" may swell with inexpressible satis- faction at the victory gained, when art has conqliered, and nature once more resumes her interrupted course ; when restored vigour of mind and body returns the prerogatives vice had usurped; when that duty, ordained and allowed (by the Scriptures), becomes a plea- sure ; and the joy of a second self gives sub- limity to a passion shared with the animal cre- ation ; when the future is lit up by the bright- ness of the present, and the pure spirit of love hovers in mercy, and protects with its wings, man, the favoured being for whom all was created. When the hope of a family has been restored, wlien the young regain their original vigour, and the aged are allowed to taste the joys na- ture (ever bountiful) grants ; when eye meets eye, and the pressure of the hands speaks a mute language words could not express ; it is then that the medical man feels proud and happy at the task performed ; it is then he reaps the14 richest harvest the mmd of man can crav e m this nether world; it is then the hour is blessed when a determinalion was formed and executed, which tended to the one gveat' object sought by all—connubial felicity. [S9, George Street, Hanover Square,] London, W. Private Entrance— 44aj Maddox Street, Regent Street. tTPIE MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION are the testes, with their appendages, the vesi- culte seminales, prostate gland, Cowper's gland, the penis. The testes are inclosed in the scrotum : the scrotum is composed of the skin, DARTOS, INTERCOLUMNAR FASCIA, CREMASTER, FASCIA TKANSVERSALtS, the TUNICA VAGIN-ALIS SCROTI. The skin of the scrotum is of a thin sub- stance, and of rather a brown colour, and slightly covered over with hairs; on all sides continuous with the surrounding integuments, or coverings, the veins of the scrotum may be . easily seen through it. Sometimes these veins are opened when the testicles are diseased. On the mesial line of the scrotum is the raphe, produced by a thickening of the integu- ments; it is continuous with the raphe of the perineum behind, and is lost anteriorly in the under surface of the organ.]G The DARTOs is a thin layer of pink contrac- tile fihres lying beneath the skin, surrounding each testicle, and uniting in the median line passing between the testicles, forming the SEPTUM SCROTI: by some this part is supposed to be of vessels only : its use is to support the testicle and corrugate the scrotum. Cold is its peculiar stimulus. The dartos is considered by many to be a continuation of the superficial fascia of the abdomen. The INTERCOLUMNAR FASCIA extends down- wards upon the chord from the external abdo- minal ring, where it is most evident; it then descends m a more slender form, spreading out upon the scrotum. The CREMASTER muscle, with its fibres con- nected together by cellular tissue, forms the cremasteric fascia, passing down from the lower border of the internal oblique and sometimes transversalis muscle, in the . shape of loops on the chord, as low as the lower part of the tes- ticle and scrotum. Its use is to sustain and raise the testicle, and even slightly to compress the same. WheVe there is an old hernia or rupture, the fibres are much increased in size.The FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS, Or INTERNAL INFUNDIBULIFORM, as some authors call it, passes down upon the spermatic chord, and expands over the scrotum, between the cremas- ter and tunica vaginalis. This structure, toge- ther with some sub-peritoneal reticulated tissue, passing down on the chord, forms the fascia PROPRIA of Sir Astley Cooper. The TUNICA vaginalis is a serous sac, en- closing each testis, separated from each other by the septum scroti, formed by an inward reflection of the dartos and cellular tissue in the mesial line. The tunica vaginalis was, in the first, a process of peritoneum, brought down by the testis in its descent from the abdomen. Before the seventh month this gland is lodged on the psoas muscle below the kidneys. It then begins to descend along the inguinal canal, and finally passes into the scrotum, where it is usually found at the birth, or immediately after. The process of the peritoneum, which descends with the testis, becomes generally closed, at its upper part, by adhesive inflammation, by which the lower portion is cut off from tbe general peritoneal surface, thus forming the sac of (he18 tunica vaginalis. Should, this obliteration not take place, a congenital hernia may be formed by the descent of a hernia into the tunica vagi- nalis, or a congenital hydrocele. The tunica vaginalis surrounds the testis, except at its upper and back part; it is then reflexed on the sides of the epididymis, forming a cul-de-sac on the outer side, between the testis and epididy- mis, from which it ascends, to a short distance, on the lateral and anterior surfaces of the chord ; from the chord it passes off and lines the inner surface of the scrotum. The layer of the tunica vaginalis which covers the testis is called the TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS, and that which lines the scrotum, the tunica vaginalis SCROTI. This membrane is lubricated by a thin serous fluid, which allows of the free motion of the testis. It is often the seat of the disease called hydrocele. The semen is secreted by the minute branches of the spermatic arteries in the testicles. It passes through the tubuli seminiferi into the vasa recta; contained in thfe rete testis, the semen passes by the vasa deferentia into the coNi vAscuLosi, forming the head or globus19 MAJOR of the epididymis, then through the body of the epididymis into its lower part, called GLOBUS MINOR, Or CAUDA, in the convoluted vas deferens. The vas deferens opens with the VESicuLA SEMiNALis into the urethra. Each TESTIS,* or testicle, is oval-shaped: that with its long axis directed obliquely downward, backward, and inward, whilst its upper extremity is turned a little outwards, is the larger; its outer surface is convex, and its inner flattened; its posterior, or upper part, is covered by the epi- didymis, and is pei-forated by the vessels of the gland. The testis possesses two coats, an outer, partial one, as described, from the tunica al- BUGiNEA, resembling the sclerotic coat of the eye, is of a bluish-white colour, and is com- posed of fibres interlaced together in all direc- tions ; from its inner surface several processes pass backward to the corpus hymenarium, orming the mediastinum testis. The inner surface of the tunica albuginea is hned by nu- merous vessels, forming a tunica vasculosa. * See Model at my private Anatomical Museum, :29 Georg-e Street, Hanover Square.20 The interior of the testis is composed of a soft reddish-gray pulpy substance, formed of a num- ber of small vessels, the tubuli seminiferi,^ loosely connected by cellular tissue : these are collected into bundles, separated by the pro- cesses which are sent off' from the inner sur- face of the tunica albuginea. From these bundles about fifteen or twenty tubes pass, directly backward, to the posterior part of the gland, and are called the tubuli recti : they enter the mediastinum testis, and then, running be- tween the two layers of the corpus hymena- rium, form from the upper part of this structure from ten to fifteen vessels, under the name of VASA DEFERENTiA, perforate the tunica albu- ginea, and enter the upper part of the epididy- mis, where they become tortuous, and receive the name coni vasculosi, which unite ulti- mately into one tube, and form the vas defe- rens, which, being convoluted, descends, form- ing part of the globus major and the whole of the GLOBUS MINOR of the epididymis. The epididymis, applied to the upper and back part of the testis, is composed of a head, or GLOBUS MAJOR, or upper extremity, a bodyor central portion, and a tail, or globus minor, which forms its lowest extremity : from this the vas deferens escapes, and, turning upwards, ascends along the inner side of the epididymis, and enters the spermatic chord: a small tube, like an appendix vermiformis, terminating in a cul- de-sac, is sometimes found attached to the vas deferens in the situation of the globus minor. This is known hy the name of vas aberrans. The testis is supplied with blood from the spermatic artery. This vessel arises from the front of the abdominal aorta, a little below the venal artery : from this it descends outwards, in front of the psoas muscle and ureter, and behind the peritoneum, enters the internal ab- dominal ring, and is conducted by the sperma- tic chord to the upper and back part of the tes- tis, where it perforates the gland, and divides there into numerous branches, which terminate in the vascular coat of the testicle. The sper- matic veins ascend from the testis, in the sper- matic chord, in the lower part of which they v\'ind round the spermatic artery, forming a plexus, the CORPUS PAMPINIFORME: they afterwards become single, and terminate in the vena cava22 on the right side, but in the venal vein on the left. The spermatic plexus of nerves arises from the venal plexus, the splanchnic nerves, and some filaments from the lumbar gangliae of the sympathetic; they soon join the spermatic vessels, and descend with them to the testis. The lumbar plexus also sends a few branches to the spermatic chord and scrotum. The SPERMATIC CHORD is thus formed of the veins, nerves, absorbents, and excretory duct of the testis, the vas deferens, deferential artery, united by fine cellular tissue, and enclosed in the TUNICA VAGINALIS of THE CHORD, the degenerated portion of the peritoneum, and covered by the cremaster muscle. The vas deferens lies posteriorly in the chord, which it leaves at the internal abdominal ring: it here hooks round the epigastric artery, passes in- wards, backwards, and downwards across the psoas muscle and external iliac vessel-s, sinks into the pelvis, passing over the ureter and um- bilical artery, applies itself to the fixlse lateral ligament of the bladder, by which it is con- ducted to the inferior fundus of (lie organ, whence it runs - forwards and inwards along theinner side of the vesicula senrtinalis, and, at ths base of the prostate gland, terminates, by join- ing att an acute artgle the duct of the corre- sponding vesicula, to form the ductus ejacTula- Toiilus COMMUNIS, which, running forwards and inwards through the substance of the pro- state gland, opens on the anterior part of the verumontanum. The vas deferertsi'is composed of two coats, an external fibrous a;nd an inter- nal mucous: the fibrous coat is of ffi-eat strength, and gives to it the feel of whipcord: its cavity is exceedingly small. The vas defe- rens is flattened and sacculated, where it is connected to the inferior fundus of the bladder ; its fibrous coat does not penetrate the prostate gland. The VESICULA SEMiNALES, two in number, are attached to the inferior fundus of the blad- der, where they lie, one on each side, parallel and external to the vas deferens: they are about two inches in length, convoluted, ob- long, and pyriform in shape: the larger extre- mity is obtuse, and turned backwards and out- wards : their smaller extremity, directed for- wards and inwards, terminates in a duct, which24 forms, with the vas deferens, the ductus eja- cuLATORius COMMUNIS, as just described. Each vesicula, when unravelled, is found to- consist of a single convoluted tnbe, with nume- rous short lateral pouches communicating with it. It is composed of an external fibrous or condensed cellular coat, and an internal mu- cous membrane. Their interior presents a sacculated appear- ance, not unlike that of the large intestines, the sacculi being smaller, but more distinct. Their use is to contain the semen, and probably also to secrete a peculiar fluid, to assist in the pro- cess of generation. They form, with the vasa deferentia, the lateral boundaries of tlie trian- gular space, through which the bladder is some- times punctured from the rectum. The PROSTATE GLANDS surround the neck of the bladder and prostatic portion of the urethra, which passes through it, nearer its upper than its lower surface, one third of the gland only being above the canal. This gland is some- what heart-shaped : the base, turned backwards, IS. notched in the centre, where the common ejaculatory ducta penetrates, separated by the25 middle lobe of the gland. The external sur- face of the prostate gland is surrounded by a plexus of veinsj chiefly formed from the dorsal vein of the penis. It is usually described as consisting of two lateral lobes, and a small con- necting inferior third lobe(HoRNE's lobe). This division is very arbitrary and indistinct. The under surface of the gland rests on the rectum. The prostate gland is covered by a dense fibrous capsule, which is derived from the tri- angular hgament, and gives to it its firm feel; but according to some authors, it is derived from the pelvic fascia: its internal structure is composed of a congeries of mucous follicles, united by cellular tissue. Its use is to secrete a fluid supposed to be useful in generation: this is conveyed into the urethra by means of nu- merous ducts, about ten on each side, which open on each of the verumontanum. The coverings of the penis are the skin, su- perficial fascia, and ftiscia of the penis. The SKIN is thin and loose, and is continuous with the surrounding integument: anteriorly it is prolonged, so as to form a fold, named the pre- puce, at the free margin of which the skin is D 226 reflexejdi on itself as far as tlie corona glandis : it thence covers the glans penis, where it is con- tinuous, at the orifice of the urethra, with the raucous membrane; beneath this opening it forms a fold, the froenum preputii. The su- perficial FASCIA lies beneath the skin; it is loose and reticular, and is derived fi-om a continuation of the superficial fascia of the ab- domen, which descends fi-om the pnbes, or the dorsum of the penis, forming the false suspen- sory LLGAMENT ; anteriorly it is continued into the prepuce. The superficial fascia of the penis communicates freely with that of the perineum and abdominal parietes: hence effusions of serum, urine, &c., pass freely into its cells. The FASCIA OF THE PENIS is a dense layer of cellular tissue, which invests the body of the penis, and is derived from the true suspen- sory LIGAMENT, a ti-iaiigular fibrous structin-e, which descends from the margins of the arch of the pubis on the penis, inclosing between the two lamina?, of which it consists, the dorsal ves- sels and nerves of the penis. The BODY of the penis is composed of the two CORPORA CAVERNOSA, and the corpusspongiosum urethras. Each corpus cavesend- SUM commences by a narrow-pointed, or some- times obtuse extremity, whicli is attached to the inner surface of the tuber ischii and rami of the ischium and pubes, whence, pasBj^is^ forwards and inwards, it terminates in the corpus caver- nosum ; this immediately unites with the corpus cavernosum from the opposite side ; the two, thus united, pass forwai'd, and terminate behind the glans jienis in a bHnd obtvise exti'emity. The corporae caveniosae are covered externally by a dense fibrous, whitish, elastic membrane, of some thickness ; this ends, on the mesial line, in an imperfect septum, the septum pectinifotim, which partially separates the two bodies, but at the same time allows a communication between their cells, particularly anteriorly. Numerous processes are given off from this coat to the interior, under the name of trcebecxil.e, to support and conduct the vessels. In the inte- rior of this fibrous covering is ah erectile spongy tissue, of a reddish colour, supposed by some to be composed of a congeries of arteries and veins ; by others, of cells into which the blood is poured during the erection ^of the organ.28 whence 'it is afterwards removed by the veins. A peculiar set of arteries, which^ terminate in dilated extremities (helicine arteries), have been described by some. Between the corpora cavernosa, superiorly, a groove exists, in which the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis run ; a similar groove is seen on the under surface, in which is lodged the corpus spongiosum ure- THR.E. This body completes the penis, and has been described with the urethra; it is conti- nued anteriorly in front of the extremity of the corpora cavernosa, where it expands and forms the GLANs PENIS ; this body, conical in shape, is attached at its base to the anterior part of the corpora cavernosa by cellular tissue: it presents here a circular indentation, the cernix, in front of which is a projecting ridge, the corona GLANDis: these parts contain a number of seba- ceous glands, the glandulee odoriferfe, or Tysion. The cells of the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum urethras do not communicate. The penis is suj^plied with blood by branches of the internal pudicarteries, as follows:—1st. arteri.e DORSALEs penis, ruji in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and terminate by forming a vascu-29 -lar circle round the corona glandis j 2d. arte- Ri.E CORPORIS CAVERNosr, perforate the crura penis, and run forward on each side of and close to the septum pectiniforme; 3d. arte- RI.E BULBI VEL CORPORIS SPONGIOSI URETHRyE, penetrate the bulb, and supply the corpus spon- giosum urethras. The veins of the penis'pass backwards from the arteries, form a plexus round the neck of the bladder, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The nerves of the penis are derived from the internal pudic, and accom- pany the arteries. The erection of the penis is caused by the erectores penis muscles, which force the blood forward into the organ, and prevent the return of the venous blood. Dr. Houston of Dublin describes a pair of muscles the " compressores venae dorsaUs penis," which, arising on each side from the ramus of the pubis, cross the dorsal veins, and thus are enabled to compress them, and so contribute to the erection of the organ. In amputation of the penis the .course of the -arteries should be borne in mind, so as to enable the operator to secure the bleeding vessels with30 ease. In haemorrhages from the peiiis, the divi- sion, or tying of the dorsal arteries, or arteries of the bulb, sometimes becomes necessary. Coavper's clands are two small bodies of the size of an ordinary pea, which are lodt^ed between the layers of the triangular ligament, in the space between the membranous portion of the urethra and the bulb. Their exact use is unknown. They sometimes become inflamed in gonorrhoea, and thus give rise to abscesses in perineo. THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENEJIAXION are divided into the external and internal. The external parts are the mons veneriSj LABIA, CLITORIS, NYMPHil^, VAGINA, and PERI- NEUM. The MONS veneris is the projection in front of the upper part of the pubes: it contains some fat beneath the integuments, and is covered in the adult. The mons vulva, or pudendum, are terms often used as applying to the external ])arts taken altogether. The labia arc folds of the skin, lined internally with mucous membrane, and within containing31 some erectile and cellular tissue: where they unite posteriorly, an internal transverse fold of membrane is found, forming the fourchette. The CLiTOKis lies within the vulva, between tTie labia, immediately below the mons veneris; it is analogous to the organ in the male: it arises by two crura, one on each side, from the rami of the pubes, which unite to form one body, the clitoris, which, expanding in front, forms the glans clitortdis : this is partially covered with a fold of the integument called the PREPUCE, The clitoris is erectile,,but at the same time does not possess any canal. The nym- phs, or LABi^ MiNOPwE, descend from the pre- puce downwards and outwards, and are gra- dually lost near the orifice of the vagina. Be- tween the nymphae, having the clitoris above, and the orifice of the vagina beneath, is the external opening of the meatus urinariu?, or URETHRA. This is about two inches and a half in length, and leads upwards and backwards, immediately above the vagina, into the bladder. The vagina lies beneath the preceding, and above the rectum; it leads upwards and back- wards to the extent of about four inches along32 its upper surface, and six inches below, and ^terminates by surrounding the neck of the uterus, being prolonged farther on it posteriorly than anteriorly ; it is lined internally by mucous membrane, which is uneven, and thrown into folds, chiefly in the transverse direction. It is generally partially closed in the virgin state, near its anterior extremity, by a crescentic fold of mucous membrane, coiicave upwards, named the HYMEN. The rupture, or gradual oblitera- tion of this, leaves in the adult irregular pro- jections, the CARUNCUL.E MYSTiFORMEs. Ex- ternal to the mucous membrane, the vagina is -covered with a fibrous membrane, on the exte- rior of which is the PLEXUS retiformes, com- posed chiefly of veins, and supposed to be -erectile. The vagina receives a partial cover- ing of peritoneum, near to its attachment to the uterus. The perineum in the female extends from the inferior commissure to the os coccygis; it con- tains analogous muscles to tlie male, viz. the sphincter ani, levator ani, coccygyteus, trans- versus perinei, and erector clitoridis. Tlie SPHINCTER VAGINA muscle may be said to cor-33 respond to the accelerator urinae; it surrounds -the orifice of the vagina, attached in front and superiorly to the clitoris, behind to the central point of the perineum. The internal organs of generation are the UTERUS and its appendages on each side ; the ligaraentum teres, fallopian tube, and ovary. The uterus lies between the bladder and rec- t (uni : it is pyriform in shape, and is described as consisting of a fundus, body, and cervix : the larger extremity, or fundus, is free and rounded^ and is turned upwards and forwards ; from thi's the body contracts to its cervix, which is sur- rounded by the vagina. It here presents a small transverse slit, the os uteri, or os tineas. The cavity of the uterus is small, and branches off at the superior and lateral parts into two lesser canals, which lead into the Fallopian tubes, all of which are lined by mucous membrane, covered by columnar and ciliateo epithe- lium. In structure, the uterus is composed of a peculiar muscular tissue, non-striated, per- forated by numerous vessels : no distinct striped muscular fibres can be demonstrated in it. The uterus is covered by peritoneum, ex-34 cept where it projects into the vagina. Thia membrane forms on each side a large duplica- ture, the broad ligament of the uterus, which is reflexed from it on the sides of the pelvis: this ligament allows of the distension of the uterus during pregnancy, and contains witliin its folds the ligamentum teres. Fallopian tube, and ligament of the ovary, and ovary, in order, from before, backwards, on each side, together with the various vessels and nerves. The uterus is of service for the function of menstruation, and for the reception and nutrition of the ovum. During coitioli the uterus is supposed to open a little, and draw in thfe semen by aspira- tion ; the Fallopian tube directs it to the ova- rium ; the contact of the semen determines the rupture of one of the ovarian vesicles, which in a few days passes into the uterus. Some authors imagine that it is not the semen that is carried to the ovarium, but only the vapour that exhales from it, or aura seminalis. Others think the semen is absorbed, and car- ried to the ovaria by means of the arteries. No theory yet started carries much probability witli it. ■ • i' •35 The LIGAMENTUM TERES, OT ROUND LIGA- MENT, the most anterior, stretches from the fundus of the uterus forward and outward, de- scends along the mguinal canal, and terminates by spreading out in the labia. The round hga^ ment, besides its peculiar fibres, is accompanied by some muscular fibres of the uterus, and ar- terial branches from the spermatic artery. The Fallopian tube is about three to four inches in length; it runs from the side of the fundus uteri, outwards and upwards at first, and then a little downwards and backwards, and terminates in a loose fringed extremity, the CORPUS FiMBRiATUM, in the posterior surface of which is a small opening, the morsus dia- BOLi, by which the cavity of the uterus com- municates with that of the peritoneum, and where the serous membrane is continuous with the lining mucous membrane of the genital organs. The canal of the Fallopian tube is sma;ll neat the uterus, but inci-eases a little as it approaches the morsus diaboli: through it the ovum passes into the uterus from the ovary. The ovary is attached on each side to the fundus of the uterus by a round fibrotis imper- vious chord, the ligament of the ovary, about36 two inches in length. The ovaria resemble the testes somewhat as to size and shape: thej- are more irregular than these, and often pre- sent cicatrices on their surface. The ovary is covered externally by peritoneum, beneath which is a strong fibrous capsule, analogous to, but not so dense as, the tunica albuginea: within these, united by firm cellular tissue, named stroma, and vessels, is a number of vesicles, the Graafian vesicles, which contain the ova. These Graafian vesicles vary much in number from fifteen to thirty, and sometimes rhore; they vary also as to size, those on the surface being the larger. Each Graafian vessel is now described as containing an albuminous liquid, and a round little body, which is the real ovum, surrounded by two membranes, the external one vascular, the internal one, named the ovi-capsule, pre- senting an internal granular surface. When a Graafian vesicle is ruptured, its contents find their way into the uterus by the Fallopian tube, and its place is supplied by a new deposit, which, from the colour assumed, is named cor- pus LUTEUM. Each little real ovum is said to have its pro-37: per membrane, membrana pellucida, contain- ing the yolk : this yolk, composed of granular matter, contains the germinal vesicle, in which is found, by the aid of the microscope, an opaque spot, named macula germinitiva. The female organs are chiefly supplied with blood by branches from the internal iliac, viz. the vaginal and uterine. The latter, as also t'he uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. Tiie ovaries are supplied by the spermatic arteries, which send branches to the- uterus also, and are much enlarged by preg- nancy. The nerves are divided from the sym- pathetic ganglia and from the sacral plexus. Preparatory to mentioning some of the dis- eases the female suffers from, it may be observed that great care and attention should be given tO' the habits of young girls, since they share to a certain, though lesser degree, in a vice which, if adhered to, renders them barren. The same symptoms, as a general rule, vi'ili mark the effects of such a calamity, for which remedies such as those prescribed for the male should be employed. GoNORRHfEA.—It will be neccssary to ascer- tain the exact seat of the disorder, thereby ren-38 dering the cure more easy and certain. VuL- viTUS may exist in the external parts, namely, the labia nymphas, meatus urinarius, or other adjoining parts, as also the vagina, and the canal of the cervix uteri. There are many causes that will produce dis- charges, such as want of clean linen, disordered state of the utine, teething, and other forms of constitutional disturbance. When the discharge is of clear viscid mucus, or of a tenacious alkaline mucus, containing round corpuscles, the cause may lie in a re- laxed state of the organs of generation, where the subjects are weak, or where the mind is much affected. It should, therefore, be a sub- ject of great care on the part of the medical man to distinguish between the last-mentioned causes and those proceeding from gonorrhoea,; *t.he discharge in the latter case being very great, with foetid odour, the parts swollen, pain in walking and in voiding the urine, excoriations also being present. ' Should gonorrhoea be neglected, the most likely result will be a gleet, which may require jnuch time ere a cure can be expected. Syphilitic Ulcers are much less trouble-39 some to the female than to the male, though requiring long time healing, particularly when the urine tou'ches the diseased part. ShouM they, however, be seated high in the vagina, they may give little trouble, and scarcely he known to exist, except, perhaps, by a discharge, and then perceptible only on-making use of the speculum. Imperforate Hymen.—The hymen varies in different subjects : thus, in some it is of so slight a structure as to be rent by a violent fit of coughing or crying, while in others it has to be operated upon, when the whole is closed, causing the menstrual fluid to accumulate, and the uterus to distend. Should the cutoris and nymphJB grow larger than the usual size, and thus become an incon- venience, removal can be effected by taking away the unnecessary part. Varicocele.^—Sometimes enlargement of the veins of the labia takes place, which forms a soft tumour, enlarging when the patient rises, and disappearing when lying down. This dis- ease is very troublesome, and prevents exer- cise being taken. E40 Pp,oLAPSE OF THE Vagina.—In this disease there is a great amount of irritability in the bladder, and difficulty of voiding tlie urine. The motions also give pain ; to which may be added other distressing symptoms. Astringent injec- tions, baths, tonics, bandages, &c., will restore the patient to health. The female genitals externally may suffer from the following, such as superficial lupus, corroding ulcer, enlargement of the external parts, ulceration, thickened cutis, warts, &c. There are many other diseases to which the female is subject, for which our limited space will not allow insertion. It should, therefore, be the duty of every husband to impart sufficient knowledge on this subject to his wife, to ren- der her capable of judging from appearance, and answers made to well-timed inquiries, that her progeny is not suffering from any hidden cause. A certain degree of knowledge cannot but be useful, if only to place on their guard the loved ones entering on the scene of life. Knowledge of facts will and must eventually come and be met: better by far to get the ad- vice of a medical man for a slight cause, than by41 •delay, to render difficult, that which at first would have been easy. In America, anatomy forms part of the educa- tion of both sexes. It were well if the same were pursued in this country, the consequence of which would tend to elevate the mind with that proper feeling—wonder for the structure of our earthly frame, mingled with a due con- sideration of the care with which its preserva- tion should be attended to, thereby preventing unnecessary strains on the nerves and muscles, made and adopted for purposes conducive to our health and well-being, too often destroyed, to say the least, by want of knowledge. GONORRHOJA. Gonorrhoea is a discharge of purulent matter from the urethra of the male, the vagina, nym- phae, &c., of the female, the consequence of a specific inflammation, induced by tl>e contact of infectious matter. Gonorrhoea usually ap- pears on the third or fourth day after its con- tact with gonorrhoeal matter : ,it may, however, commence in a few hours, or not appear for E 242 some weeks after. The first symptom of gonorrhoea is generally an itching at the orifice of the urethra; sometimes extending over the whole glans; sometimes its earliest syrol)- tom is the sensation of a few drops of m*ine being lodged in the urethra. A little fulness of •the lips of the urethra is the next that will be observable ; the glans becomes swollen, and the discharge commences. The itching changes into pain, more particularly at the time of voiding the urine. There is often no pain till some, time after the appearance of the discharge and other symptoms; and in many gonorrhoeas there is hardly any pain, even when the dis- charge is very considerable ; at other times a great degree of soreness occurs long before any discharge appears. There is generally a particu- lar fulness in the penis, and more especially in the glans. The glans has a kind of transpa- rency, especially near the beginning of ihe urethra, "where the skin becomes distended, smooth, and red, resembling a ripe cherry. The orifice of the urethra is, in many instances, excoriated. The surface of the glans itself is oftQn in a semi-excoriated state, consequently43 very tender, and it secretes, as also the inner surface of the prepuce, a kind of discharge. The stream of urine becomes smaller than usual, from the swollen state of the penis and the spasmodic contraction of the urethra, and is generally scattered and broken as soon as it leaves the passage: some bleeding occasionally occurs from the urethra. As the disease advances, the discharge in- creases in quantity, and the scalding in passing urine becomes much aggravated; the patient complains of a soreness and pain, and uneasi- ness about the pelvis, scrotum, and perineum, and the testes often become tender. The con- stitution now begins to sympathise, and general fever appears. The discharge in gonorrhoea is at first of a thin serous character, it then re- sembles mucus, and finally assumes a purulent character : it is of a greenish colour, lias a pe- culiar disagreeable smell, and stains the linen with a green colour. It proceeds at first from the anterior part of the mucous membrane of the urethra, one inch and a half of which only is. engaged in the inflammation; this soon spreads, so as to occupy the whole of the canal and en-44 gage the lacuna?. The mucous membrane is not ulcerated, unless in the aggravated form of the disease, the discharge proceeding from the surflice of the membrane. Chordee is characterized by a curved state of the penis during erection, attended with great pain, and frequently with a discharge of blood. It appears as one of the earliest atten- dants of gonorrhoea, and is caused by an effu- sion of lymph into the cellular tissue of the corpus spongiosum urethra:, which prevents the regular distension of the part. Bubo is also an early symptom. In general' . a number of the glands in the groin become enlarged, the absorbents leading to them being also increased in size, and forming a thickened chord along the dorsum of the penis. It is SYMPATHETIC, AND RARELY SUPPURATES. Retention of urine occurs during the in- flammatory stage of gonorrhoea, especially where much irritability of the neck of the bladder has been present, and the disease has been treated on the irritating plan. The symptoms are ex- tremely acute, and there is much constitutional disturbance present. In some cases the patient45 is unable to pass any urine; in others he gets- rid of a few drops with much pain and sufFer- ins. Retention of urine from wonorrhoeifl in- flammation may prove fatal, from the superven- tion of peritonitis. Abscesses sometimes are formed along the course of the urethra, or in the perineo, in severe cases of gonorrhoea. In the former, they seem to be caused by inflammation attacking the lacunte, in which the abscess is formed, and then bursts in the urethra: in the latter, Cow- per's glands are generally affected: these may burst either into the urethra or in perineo, thus giving rise to a fistula in perineo. As these ab- scesses frequently cause retention of urine be- fore bursting, an accurate examination is indis- pensable whenever they are suspected to exist. Hernia, humoralis (Teslitis or Orchitis) appears in the advanced stages of gonorrhoea, when the discharge is rather of a gleety des- cription, and is apparently about* to disappear ; but it sometimes comes on earlier if irritating injections be employed. It has been much dis- puted whether this is a specihc affection of the testis, or a purely inflammatory one. The latter4'6 opinion is that generally received, the disease being attributed to an extension of the inflam- matioA from the urethra, along the vas deferens, to the testis. The disease usually commences with pain in the course of the vas deferens, and some swelling and tenderness in the spermatic chord; obtuse pains soon appear in the epidi- dymis and testis, followed by acute' inflamma- tion in the parts. The pain now becomes more severe, and constitutional symptoms now super- vene ; and, on examination, the epididymis and testis are found much enlarged, particularly the former, and are • exceedingly tender to the touch. The testis retains somewhat of its natu- ral shape, being flattened at the sides, and is exceedingly har^ and tense, the scrotum be- ■ comes red, and its temperature is increased. Only one gland is affected at the time. There IS pam in the course of the spermatic chord, ex- tending to the lumbar region, general febrile distui-bance, with nausea or vomitino-. ^ I' Should this disease be neglected, the inflan;- mation of the gland proceeds to suppuration, and an abscess is the consequence; this by de- grees bursts on tlie anterior part of the scro-47 turn, when the matter, mixed wifn semen, is dis- charged, as also a portion of the tubular, or secreting portion of the gland: fungous granu- lations now form from the interior of the testis. During gonorrhoea HiEMORRHAGE will take place. It is seldom serious, and is often the forerunner of the disappearance of the disease. Gleet is a discharge of a thick mucus, which remains for a length of time, sometimes i'or months,- after the acute symptoms of go- norrhoea has subsided. It in general depends on a relaxed condition of the parts. Phymosis and Paraphymosis are not unfre- quently met with in connection with'the early stages of gonorrhoea; they will be described under the head of venereal diseases. STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA.* Stricture is an obstruction to the flow of urine through the urethra, caused by the spasmodic action of the muscles, or some alteration in the size of the canal, and is one of the most frequent, though remote, consequences of gonorrhoea, sel- dom appearing till some years after the disease, * See models at my private Anatomical Museum, 29 George Street, Hanover Square, LondoD, W.48 and is often attributed to the use of astringent injections rather than to the gonorrhceal inflam- mation ; but this may be well questioned. Strictures occasionally form in individuals who have never had an attack of gonorrhoea; indeed, the most severe forms of this disease result from mechanical injury to the urethra, such as falls on the perineum, &c. Strictures have been divided into the permanent, spasmodic, and MIXED. By PERMANENT strictures are meant those depending on a permanent alteration in the size of the canal, caused either by an effu- sion of lymph into the submucous cellular tissue of the urethra, or on the surface of the mucous membrane. Spasmodic stricture is that caused by the spasmodic contraction of the muscular fibres surrounding the urethra. • Mixed stric- ture is that in which the prominent form of the disease is attended with a spasmodic contrac- tion of the surrounding muscles. Permanent strictures are divided into the packthread, bridle, and long-continued. The packthread is that in which there is a circular narrowing of the canal, as if a tln-ead Nvere tied tightly around it. The bridle stricture is when a band of lymph crosses the urethra; and the long-con-49 tinued, that in which a considerable longitu- dinal extent of the canal is engaged, and may be either on one or other of its surfaces, or occupying its whole circumference. The most usual seat of stricture is about the bulb; bufc there is much difference of opinion as to its pre- cise situation : some contend that it is mo&t fre- quently met with in front of, others say behind, the bulb. There is no part of the canal wholly exempt from the infection. The earliest symptom of a stricture is' the retention of a few drops of urine in the urethra after the patient has made water, which after- wards escape and wet the linen, while a fur- ther portion of urine is collected between the neck of the bladder and the stricture, and may be expelled by pressure on the lower surface of the urethra. This is soon followed by an irritable state of the bladder, the patient being frequently disturbed at night to pass water; the stream of urine becomes forked, spiral, or scattered, and,, in a more advanced stage, the water is only voided in drops : there is, in general, a gleety dis- charge from the urethra, and uneasiness about the perineum and l^ower part of the rectum, &c.50 When the stricture has existed for some time, the constitution begins to particiiDate in the affection, a species of low fever setting in, marked by an accelerated pulse, impaired appe- tite, thirst, disturbed rest, and a peculiar degree of general irritabihty. As the disease advances, the fever assumes much of the character of an intermittent attack, being attended \yith occa- sional shiverings, follow|;d by profuse sweatings. This may be distinguished from an intermittent by the irregularity of the attacks and the pro- fuse nature of the sweatings. Spasmodic Stricture usually manifests itself after much eating and drinking, that is, a fever- ish ap.d excited state of the system. It is attri- buted to spasmodic contraction of the muscular ■fibres surrounding the urethra, but it is ques- tionable whether it ever occurs without a slight amount of permanent stricture. The following niay be considered as the prin- cipal after-consequences of stricture :— Retention of Urine, which seldom makes Its appearance suddenly, unless when much spasm is present: in general, the stream of urji;e l^^s been gJcaducUly diminishing for some51 time, arid the patient, from somie excess di' Ex- posure to cold, brings on a complete retentioti of urine. The symptoms of the affection are, an extreme desire*to pass urine, attended with a total inability to do so, or nearly so, a few drops . only making their appearance with much strain- ing, a sense of weight and fulness in the blad- der and lower part of the pelvis, and the pre- sence of a CIRCUMSCRIBED tumour, formed by the distended bladder, above the pubes. In many cases the last symptom is absent, as the bladder does not rise above the pubes, in con- sequence of its being in a permanently con- tracted state. SYPHILIS.* The VENEREAL disease, or syphilis, is contracted, like gonorrhoea, by the contact of infectious matter being appHed to some part of the body, most frequently the penis in the male, and the labia in the female. It is recorded that the virus has been transmitted by contact, without any criminal intercourse, such as by a wound, or even wearing the clothes, or * See Various models, tones, &c., at my private Anatomical Museum, 29 George Street, Hanover Square, London, W.52 wiping on a towel which one affected by the disease had made use of. Vaccination is often the cause of illness, and even death, the mat- ter used coming from a child* whose parents suffer from this fearful malady. Cases of this nature are often seen by the medical man. Syphilis appears as a primary affection, in the form of a sore, called a chancre; and in the secondary affections, in the form of inflam- mation and ulceration on different parts of the ■body,' the mucous membrane of the throat, the skin, periosteum, and bones. Within the last four or five years a strange attempt has been made in several parts of the Continent to cure constitutional syphilis by syphiUzation—that is, by inoculating and re-inoculating with tlie syphilitic virus until this virus ceases to take effect. As many as five hundred chancres have been produced in the same person under this mode of treatment. The practical result, as might be expected, has by no means redounded to the credit of the homoeopathic dogma of similia siniilihus curaitlur. Only the other day, indeed, a government prosecution was instituted in Fiance against a practitioner who had made use 0? syphili.':a(iu/i, and he was heavily fined.53 A chancre generally appears from within four to seven days after connection, but the time of manifesting itself is variable, and may extend to many weeks. Its usual seat is the corona glan- dis, but it may also form on the glans, prepuce, or body of the penis; indeed, on almost any part of the human frame. The poison produces, first, a pimple on the part, of a darker hue than pimples in general, and attended with infldm- mation. The pimple bursting, an ulcer is formed in the centre, and then a slough is pro- duced in the body of the sore, which is often large, and extends beneath the skin. The cha- racter of the sore is as follows:—It is generally • circular in shape; the surrounding edges are hard and ragged; its surface is yellowish, and the margin red; it is surrounded by an erysipe- latous redness, and it possesses an indurated base. Although the symptoms above mentioned will indicate a chancre, still the constitution of the patient, and many other causes, will frequently prevent their development, and give to the sore appearances which may render its diagnosis difficult. Thus, when the poisonous matter is applied to a sore, excoriation, or fissure in the54 skin, it takes'some time before the syphilitic symptoms appear in the ulcer. If a chancre • forms on the frcenum, it usually desti-oys the part rapidly ; it is more in-egular in appearance than chancres in oth'er parts, and is, in general, > more inflamed and painful. Wheu a chancre forms on the edge of the prepuce, effusion takes place into the cellular membrane, inducing phymosis, as is also the case when the sore forms where the skin is reflexed over the penis. Chancres, if situated on the corona gl&ndis, or between it and the frcenum, often extend deep, and produce sloughing of the part and of the glans itself When a chancre goes through the skin into the cellular tissue, it assumes a disposition to ulcerate and slough. It often happens, when the disease be- comes severe, that the urine passes through the opening made by the chancre, and thus renders the cure very difficult, the acrimony of the water preventing the wound fi-om closing. The state of the constitution modifies the ap- pearance of a syphilitic sore more than any other circumstance. In persons of an irritable habit, whether dependent on original formation, or induced by mode of living or pursuit, chan-55 -cres inflame much, and run rapidly into slough- ing. In this state forming the irritable or SLOUGHING CHANCRE, the pulse will be gene- rally from 120 to 130, an erysipelatous inflam- mation extends round the sore, and the slouch- ing attacks the body of the penis, which is rapidly destroyed. Phymosis is an elongated condition of the prepuce, which haugs over and conceals the glans. It is caused by inflammation, which terminates in an eflfusion of serum, or lymph, or both, into the cellular tissue of the prepuce'. Sometimes the inflammation will increase, and end in sloughing, unless properly attended to. Paraphymosis is the reverse of phymosis. In this the constricted prepuce is retracted be- hind the corona glandis, and cannot be drawn forwards. The edge of the prepuce, constrict- ing the corona glandis, will, if allowed to re- main, cause a sloughing of the glans penis, or will liberate itself by acting on the constricted part. The strangulation is reduced by drawing the prepuce forcibly forwards. Syphilitic Bubo.—When a chancre has existed for some time, the absorbents take up the poison, and, conveying it to the upper row58 of the inguinal glands, produce an inflammation md swelling of these, forming a bubo: one gland only is usually enlarged from the syphili- tic matter, but many may be sympathetically inflamed. A bubo may not form until after the healing of the sore, as its formation may be delayed by some other disease in the patient. It frequently happens that the treatment will not prevent the gland from advancing to sup- puration ; this is indicated by sharp throbbing pains in the part. Fluctuations may appear, and it will be considered and treated as a common abscess. If a bubo be improperly treated, sloughing will take place, producing the slough- ing BUBO. The sloughing not unfrequently extends to the iliac, a femoral artery, when death is caused by haemorrhage. Secondary Symptoms seldom show them- selves before six to eight weeks after the pri- mary, but the two may co-exist. They gene- rally show themselves in the following order, viz. sore-throat, eruption on the skin, iritis, and periostitis. Secondary syphilitic diseases of the MOUTH and throat. When syphilis aflects tlie mucous membrane covering tlie floor of the57 nose or roof of the mouth, the membrane be conies red and inflamed, and a pimple forms on it; when this opens, the bony palate is exposed, and may be felt with the probe. The exposed bone in some time separates, and a communica- tion may be established between the mouth and nose, which gives a nasai sound to the voice, and allows of fluids passing from one cavity to the other. The discharge is thin and ichorous, and of very oflfensive smell. The tonsils also become affected with sores, having the character of chancre. The throat feels dry, and the in- flammation extends along the Eustachian tubes to the ear, producing acute pain and deafness., The mucous membrane covering the velum, and lining the back of the pharynx, is also liable to a similar state of ulceration. This not unfre- quently extends to the cervical vertebrse, and proves fatal by the destruction of the bones, or the opening of the vertebral artery. The mucous membrane of the cavity of the nose is occasionally attacked with syphilitic ulceration; a thin ichorous discharge, mixed witli clots of blood, escapes, and is°often fol^ lowed by exfoliations of the spongy, and, at a later period,of the nasal bones, causingmuch deformity58 Syphilitic Eruptions are liable to much variety. A morbid state: of the skin is one of the earlier and more important indications of the system having become tainted with the syphilitic poison; it is also one of the most remote effects of that poison. This morbid state may become manifest in any one of the ■different forms which skin diseases are apt to .assume; but it is more commonly observed under certain forms than others. The most common kind met with is the copper-coloured eruption, in which the blotches rise a little above the surface of the skin, and, if they £0 on to ulceration, form thick incrustations. They are attended with very little pain ; an itching, rather than a painful sensation, is felt in the part, and increases towards evening. In some the eruption is of con- siderable magnitude, but is unattended W'ith ulceration; in others, ulceration will be ob- served, with a very ragged edge. The parts in which venereal eruptions form most frc- (juently are the head, face, and roots of the hair, the back of the neck and shoulders, and palms of the hand. In some, the whole surface of the skin is covered over with the eruption.59 In many, tlie eruption is of the papular form ; in others, the pustular will be found to predo- minate : the papular is the mildest form, and terminates by desquamation; the pustular frequently runs into ulceration. If the ulcera- tions be exposed, crusts form on the surface of the sores, particularly on the face and forehead ;. these rise to a considerable height, and assume- a conical shape, and are named rupia. Erup- tions are the earliest secondary symptoms of syphilis, appearing, in general, from' the sixth to the tenth week after the formation of the pri- mary sore; they are usually accompanied by sore throat and inflammation of the iris, and not unfrequently by pains in the head, joints, and bones. They are, in most cases, preceded by inflammatory symptoms, such as pains in (he head and chest, imperfect rest, and general febrile disturbance. SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF THE PERIOSTEUM ANI> BONES. The above are later in their appearance than those of the skin. The long bones, which are exposed, and are uncovered by muscles, are60 most liable to them: such as the tibia, fibula, ulna, and clavicle ; the femur and humerus are but rarely aiFected. The flat bones of the head, particularly the os frontis, or os parietale, are also attacked with secondary syphilis. Of the irregular bones, the sternum is most subject to syphilitic attacks. The symptoms by which syphilitic diseases of the bones are known are as follow :—The patient experiences, in the evening, a sensation of pain in the bone, which is afterwards the seat of the node ; the pain does not immediately produce a swelling, but in the course of a few days a swelling appears in the evening, and disappears on the following morning. It is tender and painful in the even- ing, but these symptoms are scarcely perceptible in the morning. At this time the periosteum only is affected ; but soon after a deposit takes place between it and the surface of the bone; this deposit is in the first instance only a serous fluid, but a cartilaginous substance is soon se- creted, which is gradually converted into bone, forming a node. The bone may become en- larged. Sometimes a serous fluid is found fluctuating between the periosteum and bone.61 * Other symptoms may appear, such as inflam- mation of the skin, redness and pain, indicating the presence of purulent matter, ending with caries and exfoliation, which, exhausting the patient's strength, induce inflammation of the dura mater and brain, destroy life by forma- tion of matter in the interior of the cranium. The FCETus in utero may be impregnated with syphilis from the mother. The symptoms manifest themselves within twenty-four hours after birth. The palms of the hand, the soles of the feet, and the nates become covered with a copper-coloured eruption, and the nails gene- rally begin to fall ofF. In these cases, however, the child often dies before birth. Wa RTs are frequently formed on the glans penis, in consequence of the application of mat- ter from a similar production, or of a diseased action in the glandular odorifer£e. They were formerly supposed to be syphilitic, but are now known not to be so. Purulent or Gonorrhgeal Ophthalmia is characterized by great swelling of the conjunc- tiva, which is frequently protruded beyond the lids, followed by a discharge of greenish-yellow62 matter in large quantities. The heat and pain in the eye are considerable, an aversion to light prevails, and in some instances an appearance of hypopion is visible in the anterior chamber of the eye. Purulent inflammation of the con- junctiva destroys vision by inducing opacity of the cornea. In the latter place successive lay- ers of the cornea are thrown off, which, previous to their separation, lose their transparency, and present an irregular appearance, not un- like a false membrane, partially detached from the part. The cornea being thus destroyed, the eye bursts, the humours escape, and vision is lost. The eye is sometimes lost in this dis- ease in the course of four and twenty hours. Purulent Ophthalmia of Infants.— Chil- dren are also subject to a purulent inflamma- tion of the conjunctiva. It usually appears a few days after birth, seldom at birth, and is considered to be caused by the acrid or dis- eased discharges from the mother comintj in contact with the eyes of the child. Syphilis in females produces similar appear- ances to those observed in males. The primary sores form in general on the inner surface of63 the labia. The syphilitic eruption has one great peculiarity, which is, that it passes from one stage to another in a manner almost imper- ceptible—from blotches to pimples, from pim- ples to tubercles, from tubercles to ulcerations, and finally, from ulcerations to pustules, ending at times with the loss of, or part of, the nose^ This proves, most unquestionably, the fact of the existence of but one poison, more virulent, but still the same. Diseases of the Prostate Gland.—The prostate gland is seldom diseased except in ad- vanced life. Phlegmonous inflammation has been met with in the young subject, even be- fore puberty. This may be caused by go- norrhoea, or other cases of inflamed urethra, or may appear as an idiopathic affection. It ir. characterized by considerable heat and pain in the region of the neck of the bladder, a fre- quent desire to pass urine, a sense of weight and fiilness in perineo, and an irritable state of the rectum. Some fever is also usually pre- sent. When the gland becomes more enlarged, retention of urine will be the consequence. In some cases, particularly in scrofulous subjects,.64 the removal of the inflammation becomes im- possible, and leads to suppuration, indicated by a dull and heavy pain, rather than acute, attended with shiverings and an accession of fever towards the evening. If left to itself, the abscess will, most probably, make its way to the urethra, but may burst in the perineum. In more advanced life the prostate gland is liable to a peculiar chronic enlargement, im- properly termed scirrhus, for it is not malig- nant, neither does it present the fibrous struc- ture of true scirrhus, nor even degenerate into open cancer. One or both lobes may be affected with this disease, but the left is more frequently attacked than either the right or the middle lobe. It is looked upon as a remote consequence of gonorrhoeal inflamrnation, but has been known to occur in individuals who had never suffered Irom that disease. Being a chronic affection, it is sometimes many years increasing, before ' It causes serious inconvenience to the pa- i tient. At first there is some irritability of the j bladder, as shown by frequent desire to pass i urine; the stream of urine diminishes in size, \ and is with difficulty expelled, in many instances65 only dropping from the end of the penis; there is also a sense of fulness in perineo, and irregular pains about the neck of the bladder and rectum. As the disease advances, the dif- ficulty of passing urine becomes greater, until complete retention takes place. This is sel- dom so urgent as retention of urine from go- norrhoea or stricture, as some urine in general dribbles away, which relieves the distended bladder. The enlargement of the gland is easily felt, by an examination per anum. The effects of the enlarged gland on the urethra depend on the lobe or lobes affected, thus, if the left lobe be enlarged, the urethra is thrown to the right side, and vice versa; if both be affected, the canal is narrowed from side to side, whilst it is increased in the vertical direc- tion, so as to resemble a mere chink, at the same time that the canal is also increased in length; the rectum is also pressed upon, so that there is usually some difficulty in passing the faeces, and these are often indented by the enlarged gland. In the advanced stages of the disease a quantity of viscid ropy mucus is passed from the urethra; this is secreted in the prostate66 gland, as well as from the mucous membrane c/f the bladder. The middle lobe of the prostate gland some- times becomes enlarged. It then presses up- wards, towards the neck of the bladder, and here forms a valvular tumour, generally of a pyramidal shape, which obstructs the flow of urine, until this fluid has collected in such quantities as to pass over the sides or fundus o-f the swelling; hence a stillicidium urin/T. at- tends this affection. The enlarged middle lobe frequently becomes incrusted with calcareous matter, and hence, as also from the symptoms, has induced the idea of a calculus being in the cavity of the bladder. One very remarkable symptom present in the disease of a stone in the bladder, and generally considered as dia- gnostic, is a sudden stoppage of the urine, caused by the stone falling against the opening of the urethra. Irritable Testis.—The part is so exceed- ingly tender, that the patient cannot bear to walk, as pressure of the testicle gives him ex- cruciating pain. Handling tlie testis produce;? dreadful pain, which will last for hours after.67 passing up the spermatic chord to the loins, and along the nerves of the thigh. This dis- ease often requires castration. SAROCELE. The term sarocele has been applied to al- most every disease of the testis in which this gland becomes enlarged; hence much obscurity has arisen with regard to diseases of this gland in general: the term will be confined to that of enlargement of the testis, which takes place in a syphilitic state of the constitution (al- though Mr, Hunter denied the existence of such a disease), and which therefore may be named venereal sarocele. This is one of the latest of the secondary symptoms of the venereal disease, not appearing in most cases for years after the primary sore. It is in ge- neral accompanied with other symptoms of a venereal taint in the constitution, such as pains in the bones and joints, a few irregular sy- philitic patches or ulcers on the skin, and not unfrequently a species of hectic fever, charac- terized by profuse night sweats, loss of rest68 I and appetite, wasting of the body, and great debility. One or both testes may be enlarged at the same time. The gland usually attains a large size, somewhat oval in shape, and slightly flattened at the sides. The integuments are not discoloured, nor is there much pain. The swelhng is heavy, but not so much so as in the scin-hous testis. Scirrhous testis is a very rare disease. It appears in the advanced periods of life, and presents the same characters as cancerous tumours in other parts of the body. Hydro-sarocele is an effusion of serum into the tunica vaginalis, in combination with an enlarged testis. As the presence of the fluid often depends on the disease of the gland, when this is removed the other disappears. ^ Varicocele, spermatocele, cirrhocele.—■ These several names have been applied to a disease in which the spermatic veins become I varicose. It is more frequent on the left than ,i on the right side, from the termination of the 1 left spermatic vein in the left renal, which it i joins at a I'ight angle. The part of the end : below tlie external abdominal ring is more sub- ,169 ject to the disease than that above this point. Is known by the swelHng of the chord, which, when felt, resembles a bag of earth-worms. It is attended with pains in the chord, extending into the lumbar region, and by a wasting of the testis. The testis should be suspended in a bag-truss. Varicocele is frequently mistaken for an inguinal hernia. Hydrocele.—Although apjilicable to any tumour containing water, in general indicates a collection of serum in the sac of the tunica vaginalis. It is a perfectly local disease, and occurs most frequently in the adult in advanced periods of life. It is sometimes caused by inj ury, but more usuallyappears as an idiopathic affection. The seminal fluid secreted by the testicles is always, when evacuated, mixed with the se- cretions of other structures, such as those of the seminal vesicles, the prostate gland, and the mucous glands of the urethra. To examine semen in its pure state, it should be obtained from the different vessels of an animal recently dead, in whom death has ensued from accident or intention, and not from disease. The dis- covery by the microscope of the spermatozoa. 70 in the semen is a recent scientific achievemenl, and is not only most valuable in a philosophic point of view, but much more so as a matter of diagnosis. It has enabled us to detect many facts, and expose to light matters which before lay hidden in darkness. On examination, the seminal fluid is found to possess many of the properties of other jmimal mucilages. It is of a blueish-white colour, and nearly of the consistence of cream, but more unequal. That which is first dis- charged by living animals has nearly the pro- perties of what is found in the vasa deferentia iind other vessels of the testicles; it is whiter and more opaque, while that -which follows more resembles the common mucus of the nose, but is less viscid. It has, when first voided, a peculiar heavy smell, which has been compared to that of the farina of the Spanish chesnut. This odour appears to be derived from ilie .secretions of the seminal vesicles, prostate, and mucous glands of the urethra, as pure semen obtained from the epididymis or deferent ves- sels lias not any such smell. Its tasle is said by one of our most eminent physiologists to be71 at first insipid, with, however, a certain decree of pungency ; after a little time it stimulates and excites a degree of warmth in the mouth. Vauqueline describes it as having a sharp and slightly stringent taste. Its specific gravity is greater than that of any other fluid in the body: it sinks into water, is coagulable by alcohol, is soluble in nitric and sulphuric acids, is softened by vegetable acids, evaporates by heat, loses its viscidity on the addition of lime- water, which, however, is increased by potash and soda, and it is thickened by ammonia. When exposed-to air it soon liquefies, and then becomes specifically lighter than before; but it always remains heavier than water. When it does liquefy, it will combine with water at any temperature, but it will not do so at the time of ejection, nor will water dissolve it at any temperature, from zero to the boiling point, if it should not have been previously liquefied. According to the detailed experiments of \'auqueline, which were published in the " An- nalcs dc Chemie" for 1794, and which have been quoted by Fourcroy, Richerand, and others, human semen appears to be composed of ninety72 parts of water, six of common animal muci- lage, three of phosphate of lime, and one of soda. It exhibits a very marked alkaline cha- racterj changing the syrup of violets gi-een, ovi^ing to the s6da which it contains. The animal mucilage is not pure albumen; but Richerand observes it should rather be con- sidered as a gelatinous mucus, on which its indissolubility in water, its odour, and spon- taneous liquefaction, seems to depend. It must be observed, in connection with the efficacy of microscopic examination, that coiji- petency to use that instrument with advajitage can only he acquired by a long course of studiji and practice. It is composed of innumerable parts, the proper working of all depending on the perfect order and skilful handling of each; and the least awkwardness or error in the adjustment of any of them may disarrange the whole pro- ceeding. It is through this circumstance that many who have attempted micvoscopic in- quiries without acquiring a sufficient amount of experience, have from time to time fallen inio ,^:tic/( serious mistaken.73 I confess that for many years I remained in ignorance of the advantages to be obtained by the use of this instrument, and it was only after mature study and numerous experiments that I was enabled to act practically, without the possibility of falling into any error. The only certain means that can be adopted for obtaining a correct knoivledge of the patient's case, is having an opportunity of testing the urine loith the newly constructed micro- scope WITH POWERFUL LENSES, in Order, in the first 2olace, to ascertain the presence OR NOT OF spermatic ANIMALCULES OR SPER- MATOZOA, SO essential for the propagation of the species; secondly, if present, their healthy or diseased state; lastly, and of equal import- ance, if they are divested or not of that vitality without which they cannot possibly answer the purpose designed by nature. There is a direct communication beVween the urinary passages and the seminal vessels ; consequently, when the semen abounds with spermatozoa {the fertilizing por- tion of the semen), there is invariably detected the presence of these animalcules m the urine. With the aid of m.y newly-constructed Micro- cope—m fact, indispensably necessary in my g2 J"practice—it can he tinerrlngLy ascertained wlie- ther the discharge, frequently mistaken for go- norrhcca, is from the prostate gland, the semi'nal vessels, or from improj)er connection. The patient will therefore procure a two^ ounce glass bottle, which he will fill with his urine, and send, securely corked and sealed, packed carefully in wool, (to prevent breaking) in a seidlitz box, which, with the bottle, can be obtained from any Druggist, addressed thus, carriage paid— Dr. Robert J. Jordan, 29, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W. The application of the powers of the micro- scope to the semen has shewn that very minute bodies swim in it ; these move with rapidity, and from their various motions, their avoiding obstacles, retrogression, and change of velocity, have been regarded as animalcuhr. They arc formed like a tadpole, with a round head, or body, narrow tail, and are found in very great numbers in liealthy seminal fluid, closely crowded together. Ludovic Haume is75 said to have been the discoverer of these ani- malculfe, and to have shewn them to Lewen- hoeck in 1677. The latter has claimed the discovery as his own. These animalculse are not found, it is said, in the fluid contained in the seminal organs before puberty; but are always present after- wards, and do not disappear while man retains the power of procreation, having been met with in persons of a very advanced age: they are stated to be either imperfect or altoge- ther wanting in that of mules. The more general character with respect to these tadpoles in the semen of nmles is, that they are greatly deficient in number, and very imperfect in their formation. Some physiologists have asserted that they are also absent from the semen of persons who are suffering from, or, have been much debilitated by continual disease. The theories which have been formed respecting their nature and uses have been various. These animalcuhE, or tadpoles, are now called spermatozoa, and it is yet a question among phy- siologists whether they are independent para- sitic animals, or merely animated particles, of76 the organism in which they exist. A sperma- tozoa consists of a flattened, oval, and perfectly- transparent body, terminating in a fihform tapering tail, which together measures from one-fiftieth to one-fortieth of a line in length. Wagner has shown that they are developed within cells, and originate from the spermatic granules, being formed by the dispersion of the nuclei of these cells. These animalculee are peculiar to the sper- matic fluid, and constitute the chief charac- teristic of this secretion. They live for many hours after they have been ejected from the urethra ; the application of blood does not in- jure them, but that of urine renders their mo- tions feeble, and hastens their death. The spermatic fluid also contains a number of minute, round, colourless, granular corpus- cles, which vary in quantity, but are usually much less numerous than the spermatozoa. Both these elements of the sperm are suspended in a clear transparent fluid, termed the Uqiior semims, or seminal liquor. The quantity of semi- nal fluid emitted during the act of sexual con^ gress varies from one to two or three drachms.77 There is a singular fact connected with the history of these animalculee, having been dis- covered in large numbers, and in a very lively state, on more than one occasion, in the fluid removed by operation from hydrocele, both simple and encysted. In the former, or simple hydrocele, their presence has been attributed to a wound of the testicle by the instrument used in operating; and in the encysted form to a rupture of one of the seminal tubuli. It has been already remarked that the tad- poles, or spermatozoa, are imperfect and defi- cient in the semen of mules, or hybrid animals. Hence depends, in all probability, the impo- tence or sterility of those creatures. They are generally utterly incapable of generation. There are, however, instances, both among the mammalia and birds, of individuals belono-ina to species universally held to be distinct, uniting and producing young, which again were prolific. That the mule can engender with the marc, and that the she-mule can con- ceive, was known to Aristotle. The circum- stance is said to occur more frequently in warm countries, but it has taken place even in Scot-7« land. BufFon states that the ofFspring of the he-goat and ewe possesses perfect powers of reproduction. We might expect these animals, with the addition also of the chamois, to copulate together easil}', being nearly of the same size, very similar in internal structure, and accustomed to artificial domestic life, and to the society of each other from birth up- wards. There is a similar facility in some birds, where such unions are often fruitful, and produce prolific ofFspring. Thus the cock and hen canary birds produce with the hen and cock siskin and goldfinch; and the hen canary with the cock chaflinch, bullfinch, yellow ham- mer, and sparrow. The progeny in all these cases is prolific, and breeds not only with both the spe- cies from which they spring, but likewise with each other. The common cock and the hen- partridge, as well as the cock and guinea hen, and the pheasant and the hen, can produce together. Notwithstanding all these, other examples might be adduced, but the general rule is, that li^brids are incompetent to perform tlie act of generation, ^.o as to produce79 offspring, and it is a wise provision of nature that such should be the case, to prevent tlie world being inhabited by monstrous creatures, as would be the case, were it the general rule that fecundation followed the act of copulation, wlien practised by the offspring of parents of different species. Spermatorrkcea, or involuntary flow of se- men, has been proved to be a disease by the wondrous power of the microscope, which shows the loss sustained during the passage of the urine from the distention of the seminal vessels and relaxation of the surrounding tissues. The causes of this involuntary emission are many, and in some instances would seem con- tradictory; but, notwithstanding, the proqfs exist. Thus self-abuse, excessive intercourse, gonorrhoea, piles, constitutional weakness, ful- ness of the bladder and rectum, stimulating be- verages, amorous thoughts (reproduced in sleep when unchecked by the guidance of reason), lying on the back on retiring to rest, more clothing than necessary, friction produced on the parts from various causes, dalliance with the sex, and lastly, which may seem strange (though80 philosophically true), continence, or rather'total abstinence, may all be causes producing sper- matorrhoea. There is a great evil attending upon sper- matorrhoea, which is this,—that in several cases the person so afflicted is not aware of the ex- istence till symptoms are felt, which, so far fi'om indicating the malady, are treated by those unacquainted with the complaint for any but the real one. As a consequence,, the microscope ALONE can give proofs of the existence or NON-EXISTENCE of the disease. The SPERMATOZOA are found in the semi- nal fluid. To these minute objects man is indebted for existence, and when these a^e not in a healthy state, nor sufficient in number, disease and impotency must follow as a natural and fearful consequence. urine. Urine is a limpid yellowish fluid, with a slightly acid reaction, and averaging in specific gravity 1'022 : is speedily decomposed by ex- posure to air and heat, ammonia being gene-81 rated in great abundance. The urine may be looked upon as the great outlet for nitrogen from the system. It removes also water and fo reign sohible matters that get into the blood. The average quantity of urine voided daily in a state of health is about 32 ounces. The analy- sis (according to Berzelius) is the following:— Water , , , . Urea Lactates and Extractives Sulphates of Potash and Soda Chloride of Sodium Phosphate of Soda „ of Ammonia „ of Lime and Magnesia Hydrochlorate of Ammonia Uric acid .... Mucus of Osladder Silica , . . . 933 30-10 17-14 6-87 2-94 1-65 1 1-5 1 • ■32 •03 1000 In a diseased state the urine may contain other compounds, such as albumen, sugar, or82 sulphuric acid. Bile is also sometimes ob- served, and frequently uric acid is found in in- creased quantity. The urine is secreted by the minute branches of the renal artery into the tubuli uriniferi; after which it passes through the papill.e or mam- mary PROCESSES, into the calices. These uniting, form three or four principal tubes, named infundibula, which terminate in the pel- vis of the kidney. The pelvis contracting forms the ureter, which carries the urine to the bladder. The oblique manner in which the ureters pe- netrate the bladder prevents the urine from re- turning ; the inner membrane of the bladder, lying over the opening, produces the effect of a valve. It is also believed to be intended to prevent such over-distension of the bladder as might lead to rupture the same. As^oon as there is a certain quantity of urine in the bladder we feel an inclination to dis- charge it. This we effect partly by the con- traction of the bladder itself, and partly by the action of the abdominal muscles and diaphragm, which press the intestines against the bladder.83 When ui-ea, lithic acid, earthy phosphates, and particularly the aramonio-raagnesian, is mixed with the phosphate of lime, spasmodic action to the muscles is given, and when the mucous lining is in an irritable state, potass,, ammonia, and soda cause spasm of the urethral muscles. In order, however, to arrive at a certain know- ledge of the properties of the urine, the MrcRo- scoPK alone will insure a satisfactory result. Urea.—The nitrate of urea may be easily known by its forming a sort of scaly crystals. Lithic acid.—The shape mostly taken by this substance is that of the rhombic, or quadrangular; it is thin, transparent, and of a yellow amber colour. This substance sometimes takes other forms, such as that of cubes, or ser- rated tables, some even believing to have seen it take the form of cylinders, but the usual forms are the first mentioned. LiTHATE OF Ammonia.—This salt is easily recognised; it is more easily rendered soluble in warm than in cold fluid, and by warming the urine, should the same be turbid, it will be ren- dered perfectly clear by the process of the test84 tube, This^one test is quite sufficient to prove the presence of lithate of ammonia. The acidity of this salt will give spasmodic action to the urethral musclesj and even produce spas- modic stricture. Earthy Phosphates. — Earths may be found in the urine, such as magnesia and lime, mostly combined with phosphoric acid and ammonia. Sometimes the phosphate of lime is mixed witli the triple, or ammoniaco-magne- sian phosphates, which are then named mixed phosphates. Triple, or Ammonio-magnestan Phosphate. —Of these deposits there are two, varying in the proportions of their bases, to be distinguished only by the microscope, their crystallizations presenting characteristic differences. One is named the neutral, the other the basic variety. Neutral, or Prismatic Salt.—This salt presents a beautiful view under the microscope, from the shape being prismatic; hence its name. The usual form, triangular prism, at times be- velled off, or truncated. Many appear like two triangular prisms, or square ones, adhering by their sides, and beautifully transparent.85 Pterygoid Crystals.—These are of a wing-shape, connected by their acute ends^ and are more curious than important. Basic Triple Phosphate.—When artificially formed, as by a chemical re-agent, its appear- ance is that of a star, from which radii spring. When rapidly formed, the edges appear serrated and crenated. When slowly formed, they ap- pear broad foliaceous. They are easily recog- nised after a first view. Phosphate of Lime.—The prostate gland often secretes phosphate of lime, but it may be doubted if the urine has any such deposit. Abroad they assert that this salt appears in a crystallized form, but this opinion is not held in this country. When it does appear in certain diseased states of the mucous lining of the blad- der, the coats of the bladder have most likely secreted the same. Oxalate of Lime.—This salt is only to be detected by the microscope, and is recognised as forming the mulberry and the hempseed cal- culus. Management is required to detect the salt, as it frequently is found mixed with the lithate of ammonia.86 It may here be observed how very many im- portant truths may be discovered from a careful examination of the urine. Many conditions of the urine may cause excitement and irritability of the urethra and bladder, by the urine being too stimulating in its quality ; and thus, by pro- per remedies diluting the fluid, the health of the patient is secured. URINE AND SPERMATORRHCEA. It is of the utmost importance, when the urine is tested, that proper means be taken to know when it is voided, in order to crain neces- sary and accurate information under what cir- cumstances it took place; and notice should be taken as to the quantity voided in the four-and- twenty hours; its colour, odour, transparency, or turbidity ; specific gravity, acidity, neutrality, the nature of the deposits, or floating sub- stances, and the spontaneous changes it under- goes within two or three days, to Avhich may be added the chemical operations ; and last, though not least, the view presented under the microscope, which, if powerful, will enable all87 doubt to be removed, and ensure the patient a true opinion as to the diaxjnosis of his case. Whilst man is seeking, by the vilest and most unnatural act (since not existing in na- ture), to abridge that life which has always been ■found by great men too short for their scientific purpose,-gifts almost divine, with inventions and discoveries, have been found to couBterba- lance the evil which must otherwise have, like a second deluge, destroyed the human race, though, unlike the first, invisible in its attacks, they being attributed to other causes, the effects of which remain. Had it not been for such men as Storck, Wol- laston,and others, the properties of the urine had remained a myth, whilst that "ocular proof," which the microscope alone can give, enables cures to be performed, from the cause being there distinctly seen, not guessed at. Wondrous, indeed, are the facts elicited by the shape, action, and other indices of the semen, or sperm. How many gi'ievous mistakes have, and are daily made, from a want of atten- tion to this branch of study. Under the va.uo terms of nervousness, constipation, hystprics88 indigestion, lowness of spirits, &c., a treatment is pursued, which owes its origin to sperma- torrhoea, and spermatorrhoea only, produced by masturbation. ' Incontinence in sexual intercourse produces consequences of so dire a nature (not excepting •even that chain of maladies known by the name of venereal) as to warrant an extreme supervi- sion in our every-day actions of life. At first, the symptoms are but trifling, and sometimes local, but soon, alas, they assume a more decided character, and pallor, emacia- tion, debility swellings in the hands and feet, indigestion, hectic fever, hypochondria, loss of •memory, confusion of ideas, which may end with idiotcy, suicide too often closing the suf- ferer's mortal career. Vain would be the attempt to classify the various symptoms to which the patients are exposed. We find them sometimes suffering from palpitation of the heart, produced by the slightest emotions, pulmonic affections, by degrees increasing in severity, which would cause the medical man to believe that decline had set in ; and such too often, indeed, is the89 fact, terminating in regular consumption. The digestive organs having become involved, whilst flatulence, loathing, jaundice, together with an anxious and haggard expression of counte- nance, have given proof of the fearful condition under which the patient suffers. Again, how sad the picture of the impotent patient! A remarkable alteration takes 'place in temper and general deportment; irritability, peevishness, and discontent, are ever preying on the victim of self-abuse, till a settled melan- choly takes possession of the mind. " Hope which comes to all, comes not to him." Under the torments of anger, the moral energies are lost, and that which would rouse the man to vindicate his right is dead, whilst courage, that glorious feeling of self-dependence, exists no longer, and, like a mere machine, the wearied spirit sinks under the load of bodily ills. Mirth, amusement, cheerful company, have no more attractions for him. Solitary and mo- rose, he at times is considered by his friends as deep-thinking or studious; but this is soon found not to be tlie case, since vacancy and abstraction of thought, together with want of H 290 power to pay attention, for any given time, to any one object, proves his real condition to the experienced judgment of the practitioner and close observer. " The cerebral functions," says Professor Lal- lemand, "are not more weakened than the others, but the consequences of their derange- ment are much more serious, and more easily to be appreciated. It is soon observed that the memory becomes impaired, and the thread of ideas easily interrupted, and that the least men- tal irritation causes an afflux of blood towards the head. It is under similar tendencies that difficult digestion, long-continued constipation, distension of the abdomen by gas, &c., succeed, which ultimately excite congestions in the brain, now weakened and fatigued. " But these congestions are attended with a remarkable weakness of the pulse, coldness of the extremities, a feeling of general uneasiness, anxiety, agitation in all the senses, and an irre- sistible necessity for motion. These again arc followed by great paleness of face, general weak- ness, and a frightful prostration, without any part of the body being less affected than the other."91 "Apoplectic congestions are preceded, for inany years, Vv'it]i progressive derangement of the economy; the pulse is full; there is a ten- dency to repose, to drowsiness, and it is with difficulty that the patient can be induced to rise early in the morning, when he feels stupid for some time after getting out of bed." Sometimes also the appetite will increase most voraciously, nature making an effort to sustain the failing strength. The eyes lose that animation and brilliancy, whilst there is less dilation of the pupil of the eye, and the look of the patient seems to ask commiseration from the beliolder. This insane practice destroys the present and future, dries up the source of life, gives to youth the infinnities of age and disease, whilst the road " to that last bourne from whence no traveller returns" becomes dark, di-eary, and dreadful. Each day adds but to the weakness of the mind and body, and conscience, even in dreams, allows the sufferer no respite from sleep. Reader, do you for a moment imagine this picture over- drawn ? do you suppose this to be but an arti- fice used to check a fatal malady ? Would that92 the catalogue of ills were less; but the medical men and the divines of the different denomina- tions know the truths I am asserting; and though, from motives of feeling, the secrets be- come not general, the truth remains, and cannot be set aside. Ask the bills of mortality, the hospitals, asylums, houses of charity, and pri- vate dwellings. They, and they only, can fur- nish you with the number of the victims. Too long has the serpent been silently fostered by society, and in silence allowed to grow, till its strength and venom has rendered it too formid- able to be combated in private. It must be dragged to view, it must be known and seen, its powers discussed, its venomous influence checked; and though the present generation may frown, the nest will smile, whilst future races will bless and honour those who dared step out of the ranks of routine without the support of those whose duty it should have been to assist, by all means in their power, the cause of humanity. The greatest and best of men felt it their duty to aid in the good cause, and. the names of Hippocrates, Celsus, Arite, Galen, Pliny, Actius, Sanctorius, Lomnius, Tulpius,93 Blanchard, Boerhaave, Senac, Ludvig, De Goi- ter, Van-Swieten, Klockot, HofFraann, Levis, Storck, Fournier, Deslandes, Doursin, Du- breuil, Teraube, Tissot, Georget, Osegin, San- dras, Lallemand, Wickmann, Kaula, Zimmer- mann, and a host of others, prove how much the subject occupied the thoughts of the leai'ned body. All nations were zealous but Eng- land, where, from the number of idiots and vic- tims said to die from consumption, the question should be asked, What was the primitive cause of all this waste of human life ? No doubt the answer would have been. Self-abuse, and self- abuse only. The stages of disease vary ,• and that which i& trifling at first becomes, in a short time, serious. Many there are who, at the beginning, feel little inconvenience, and continue, under the false im- pression that graver consequences will no-t follow. If, however, philosophical reasons and medical assurances, and varied cases, are brought to the view of the deluded and insane; is there not every reasonable hope that it may so far affect the mind as to cause the victims to think, and, thinking, cease to continue that which they94 know must lead to destruction. How often is the general practitioner brought to a stand, and hesitates to believe in the existence of a vice, of which he is, notwithstanding, certain; but the parents,—what would they say if certain ques- tions deemed indelicate were to be asked ? The patient is mostly prepared to deny all knowledge, even of the practice itself, much less beino- the actual delinquent. Again, should, "after all, the supposition be wrong ? can it not be that the symptoms observed arise from some other hidden cause ? The doubt exists ; it is taken for granted, acted upon, remedies are given without effect, the baneful practice is continued, the victim is made to believe that the cause of ill- health is not in the fearful crime; the practice IS continued; and thus cure becomes impossible, and the death of the patient following is ascribed to any but the real cause. How is it possible that the man who has made it his study to trace and distinguish the symptoms of disease, has been deceived,—how is it? Because the cunning of the patient, his social position, the ever- anxious and attendant family, the seeming reli- gious tone and look, have all been there to95 baffle the medical man, who, instead of being loft alone with the patient, there to jvain his confidence, so much required, there to probe the heart by the' every look and movement of the patient, has, on the contrary, had every obstacle thrown in his way to prevent him gain- ing the certain knowledge of an»existing evil, %vhich there and then might have been attacked with the proper and necessary remedies. May the time have arrived that the veil shall be rent l)y the vigorous hand oi publicity. The medical profession, when wilhng, know sufficient for their l)urpose from personal observation, lectures, and Jiumerous works written on the subject, but the public in general, the busily-engaged mer- chant, the quiet country divine, the principals of schools, of both sexes, and others too nume- rous to mention, are not aware of the exist- ence of this fatal and insane practice j—and if they should be, do they know the indices which can convict an offender ? Do they know the consequences which ensue ? And if they know even all this, are they acquainted with the means of checking its progress ? No, they will only aid in blinding the interested, and even themselves.96 Should the victim of self-abuse read the present work, it will give him a knowledge of the fearful evils to be expected : to those who are still pure from this fearful and self-debasing prac- tice, each word and sentence will en- courage thf;m to remain in the path of virtue, the only one leading to health, happiness, and everlasting life, The use of our powers, exercised in a legiti- mate manner, at a proper time of life, and un- der favourable circumstances, are beneficial; but if, on the contrary, they are over-taxed, or abused, and further allowed a scope of action not intended by nature, and proved pernicious by every-day experience; and if, in addition, the penalty attached to all illicit connexions be taken into consideration, it will be found that the plea for thus acting against our Maker and ourselves can only be ignorance, wilful vicious- Bess, or incipient insanity. There can be no doubt, that where a man rejects health, reputa- tion, and hopes of future, " for a momentary ani- mal convulsion," the mind cannot be in a sound state, since the evils so far exceed even the97 supposed pleasure. I say supposed, because it has been questioned if there can be any real pleasure. How beautifully do the following lines of Dr. Young, in his Night Thoughts, bear on this subject:— " Natm-e, in zeal for humau amity, Denies or damps an midivided joy. Joy is an import: Joy is an exchange : Joy flies monopolists : it calls for two : Eich fruit! Heav'n planted, never pluck'd by one." When once the destructive practice is esta- blished, the barrier of intellectual control is de- stroyed ; for the mind—that changeling of social, cultivated man—by a singular adjunction, be- comes not its corrector, but its exciter and co- operator, in defiance of culture, moral feeling, moral obligation, and religious impressions: thus the man who, at the advent of youth and genius, was endowed with gaiety and sociality, becomes, ere twenty-five summers have shed their lustre on him, a misanthrope, and a nadirpoint of discontent! What moral region does that man live in—what moral feeling does he cherish, that would not unite all the energies98 of his nature to stem the torrent of so fatal a cataract ! Is it nothing to give licence and tacit approbation to a weakness and predilection that break through all the barriers of nature, give to tlie individual a callous insensibility, foreign to the native texture of his heart, and darken all the brilliant and enthusiastic pro- spects of the future ? Is it nothing to surrender tip all the. fine and raanly enjoyment of social and conjugal intercourse, and substitute in their place a deep and barren misery ? Is it nothing to light the gloomy torch that guides, by slow and melancholy steps, to the sepulchre of man- hood, in the gay and fascinating spring-time of youth and ardent desire ; when the brilliant fire of passion, genius, and sentiment, ought to electrify the whole frame? Is it nothing to raise a host of sensations, of the most depressing nature, all hostile to the natural ardency of youthful passions ? To begin the career of manhood by the abuse of nature's functions, and that, too, when the system has not completed the powers of its or- ganization, is contrai-y to all the rules by which health and happiness may be attained. Exclu-99 sively absorbed by this fatal passion, all the powers of mind and body are wasted in illusion, and an age of care and anxiety follows, ere the full period of manhood has been reached ; and, under the varied forms of its peculiar excitement, it produces morbid sensibility, an erratic imagi- nation, and their consequent results—hypochon- dria, hysteria, indigestion, &c.—which, on their first approach, are considered of too light a character to merit attention: and thus time passes on, till the wliole system is involved in relative or positive disease. In some habits a few weeks' indulgence in this infatuated pro- pensity will induce these diseases, either by sympathy or connection; and where a predis- position to insanity exists, madness will follow. It not only occasions impotency, by producing a paralysis of the muscles and nerves concerned in sexual intercourse, but it destroys the excite- ment itself by which the act is induced, and the feelings which lead to it are maintained. Ths consequences are, before having the power of performing the act of coition the semen escapes, causing the disgust of the woman and a con- temptuous feeling difficult to remove; and, on100 the other hand, the chagrin and indescribable mortification of the man, penetrating into his heart, almost destroys his reason, extinguishing for ever the innumerable blessings attending •connubial felicity. By this practice a constant irritation is kept up in the system, which, by its perpetual influence, renders the delicate fibres of those organs incapable of the act of coition: for by its repetition, the organs of generation are so familiarized with the dictates of the imagination, that they are more readily excited into action, and that imperfectly. By this morbid and vitiated in- fluence, and by the effects of their natural stimu- lant, it produces that debility which must ever re- sult from excessive action of every organ, and general exhaustion of the nervous system, which is the morbid consequence of power unnaturally exerted beyond its limits. Thus the foundation of an aversion to Paphian pleasures is laid, and nocturnal emissions soon follow. Some slight local irritation of the parts agitates the first link of that chain of ideas which has been artificially associated with the action of these organs ; un- interrupted by external impressions, the chain continues; and tlie organs perform their func-101 tions in compliance with this excitement, and that, too frequently at all hours of the day and night, and apparently from the most trivial cause. These repetitions are more than the human frame can bear, and they produce that incapacity for erection in the male which lays the foundation of impotence, and which causes in the female an aversion for sexual intercourse. The mind, by becoming interested in the performance of this act, and by the exhaustion of the nervous energy which its frequent performance induces, becomes debilitated; silently tortured by the bitterest agonies of remorse, the wretched victim of this foul propensity sufFers from a general lassitude of the nervous action, in which the whole system participates, but more particularly the organs of digestion; for such is the sympathy of these parts with the act of impression, that all the physical and moral sensibilities are directed to them, as to one common focus. A stronger illustration of this fact cannot be met with than in Dr. Darwin's " Zoonomia," where, treating of that hallucination of mind produced by the pre- dominance of one particular impression, he mentions the circumstance of a man who shot102 himself, leaving upon the table a slip of pape» containing these words only^ ''lam impotent, and not Jit to live.'''' ■Returning to the immediate object of our in- vestigation, let us inquire, in the first place, if there be no moral turpitude attached to an act that counteracts the end for which we were de- signed ? secondly, has the constant repetition of this act no effect on the animal mechanism? thirdly, will not the seminal vessels, by being emptied too frequently and too rapidly, be filled with greater abundance of fluid, but of a less healthy and natural character ? Agreeably to the laws of the animal economy, as this elaborate secretion is increased in quantity, all the other secretions musf be impoverished: this effect therefore does not confine its operation to muscular energy alone, but causes its influence to be felt also by the intellectual powers. Galen says, that "every pore is full of semen; that it has excellent virtues, and very speedily communicates some of its power and energy to all parts of the body." " Nature has given us hunger for the preservation of the individual, and lust for the support of the spe-103 cies:" reasonable creatures correct their in- centives, and make them conducive to the purposes of friendship and society, by placing them in subjection to moral sentiment and the influences of tlie intellect. In fact, this practice not only injures the body, but the mind also, and that at a period when it is full of genius and power: even when the passions are developing themselves in the zenith and energy of their action, its influence is felt throughout the whole fabric, acting with fearful energy on the mental faculties, and rendering the individual unquali- fied for the ordinary and necessary avocations of social life : reducing him to a state of childish imbecility and premature decrepitude, and bringing on all the habitudes of premature age ere the middle of life has arrived : he carries with him the form and aspect of other men, but without the vigour and energy of that season which his early youth bade him hope to attain. BuiFon observes, " How many men cease to be meii, or, at least, cease to enjoy .manhood, at thirty. How many at eighteen receive the impression of the seeds of a disgraceful disease jtseif, which it is impossible afterwards toeradi-104 cate. For an abuse of the sexual impulse greatly accelerates old age ; and unfortunately, as the season of life advances, to its imbecility are added all the errors that approximate to youthful sensuality; thus the desire of venery is either transient and insufficient, or totally an- nihilated, producing a debility little short of death. In the generative system, it forces and weakens the vessels of these organs to such a baneful extent, that when the luxuriance of youthful passions prompts to the lively inter- course of sexual bliss, they feel, they burn, with all the ardour of endearing blandishments, yet want the energy and capabilities necessary for their gratification." Onanism is a sin, condemned by the laws of God and man; and the results are so fearful, and the retribution and remorse which follow a so harrowing, that a human being endowed with reason must be infatuated indeed if he delibe- rately entails all this misery on himself, for the momentary gratification of a perverted desire, which passeth by like a fleeting shadow ; producing anguish of heart, contempt for oneself, and a deprivation of all the noble105 attributes of man. A learned and excellent divine, speaking of the abominable habit, says— " The crime itself is monstrous and unnatural, as its practice is filthy and odious to extremity; its guilt is crying, and its consequences ruinous; it destroys conjugal affection, prevents natural inclinations, and tends to extinguish posterity." Nor can this latter misery be overrated; for it is certain no bodily ailment imposes such dire discomfort as the inability to exercise the re- productive functions, and to beget our future representatives. The punishment for unnatural impurities committed with others is capital, whereas, in self-pollution, neither the cautious nor the covetous imagine they have any thing to fear. What a strange thing it is, therefore, that a man should show bashfulness and the utmost cowardice to his fellow-creature, (even should that fellow-creature be the most impotent wretch,) and yet behave with gigantic bold- ness before the Almighty Creator of heaven and earth. What comfort can a man have, in reflecting on the past actions of his life, who, hardly coming to half the age he might I 2106 reasonably have expected to have arrived at, finds himself enervated by the practice of self- pollution, his spirits sunk, his body wasted, and his strength decayed, and in continual danger of being forced to resign his impure breath upon the least inclemency of the season, or any other trifling accident. Individuals scarcely turned of forty years of age, and many even younger, who have lived rather freely, are not unfrequently, about that period of life, greatly changed in their powers of sexual intercourse. They may, indeed, in gene- ral health and personal appearance, be stout, and for several years not very sensible of the dege- neration of their powers; but the frequency of their inclination for such duties gradually be- come much diminished, and that is a symptom which is at all times indicative of approaching impotence; for the inclination gradually and entirely ceasing, the want of power speedily follows, or rather both are lost together. In others, about the same time of life, the physical power ceases first, and the inclination con- tinuing, often for many years after, they are obliged to gratify themselves in amusements107 which are the mere 'pantomime of amorous in- dulgences. Such individuals, being otherwise in tolerable health, are recoverable. Constitutional exhaustion and general ener- vation and debility, resulting from premature, intemperate, and imnatiiral venereal excitement, are, without doubt, by far the most frequent causes of impotence and barrenness in both sexes. By this evil habit it so occurs, that the generative organs, and the entire nervous sys- tem, are excited to a degree beyond what takes place during actual copulation; and the natural and certain consequences of such excitement are prostration, and premature and total destruction of the sexual energies. It is the office of the tes- ticle to secrete, as every one knows, the spermatic fluid; and every one shduld, at the same time, be aware that it is not, as is too commonly sup- posed, an excrementitious fluid, and intended, like the urine, to be eliminated from the body; but, on the contrary (except during an occa- sional act of generation), should be received into the circulation, and thence distributed to every part of the system. It is the presence of th'e semen in the circulating fluids of the male,108 and the accumulated influence of unexhausted ovaria in the system of the female, which gives to the countenance of the continent and chaste the peculiar expression of energy and vigorous health which generally characterize them, and which, though the features themselves should not be fashioned to the lines of beauty, never fails to impress the beholder with a sense of admiration and feeling of respect and plea- sure. The causes which lead to the indulgence in this wretched vice are numerous, and, unfor- tunately, too effective : one of these may be de- scribed as a peculiar amatory disposition, in force ere the approach of puberty, and which, especially with boys in the habit of associating freely with elder lads, as at the principal public schools, causes a salacity which leads to the practice of self-indulgence, and that to a most ruinous extent. The danger that thus accrues is maintained by the ignorance of these unhappy and unfortunate youths that they are doing wrong, and inflicting an indelible injury on their constitutions, inasmuch as, ere they become aware of the nature of the sad results, so much109 mischief has accrued, so much misery of mind and body from this wretched practice, that the utmost efforts of art are requisite to restore health, and the wonted equilibrium of the frame. Hippocrates, the most ancient and just ob- server, described the ills that are occasioned by self-abuse under the title of Tabes Dorsalis:— " This disorder arises from the spinal marrow, and those of a lascivious disposition are afflicted with it. They have no fever, and though they eat well, they fall away and become consumptive. They feel as if a string or stitch descended from the head along the spinal marrow. Every time they go to stool, or have occasion to urinate, they shed a great quantity of thin seminal liquor. They are incapable of procreation, and they frequently dream of the act of coition, hence ensuing nocturnal emissions. Walking, parti- cularly in rugged paths, puts them out of breath and weakens them, occasioning a heaviness in the head and noise in the ears, which are suc- ceeded by a violent fever (lypiria),that terminates their days." In a further description of the disease, he also observes, " that it is caused by110 the wasting of the marrow of the back-bone in an unnatural way;" by which, doubtlessly, he meant the sperm, or seminal liquor. " The pa- tient," says he, " is free from fever, yet feels a kind of burning" heat on some internal part: sometimes eats and digests well; and if you ask him with respect to his state, he tells you that he feels a cold running stream from the superior part of his body (the head we suppose) into the spine of his back, and when he discharges his urine or his excrement there is sometimes an evacuation of liquid semen." "This man," con- tinues the sage philosopher of Cos, " will be rendered incapable of propagating his species, or answering the purposes of the marriage bed, unless the healing art afford him relief. "He is generally short-breathed, feels languid after rising in the morning, with w-eakness about the loins, and especially after much exercise, and sleep does not afford him the vvished-for refreshment. An intermitting dimness of sight sometimes attacks him, his memory fails, and his spirits become dejected." " Hippocrates further observes, " that when this distemper continues for a length of time, it as-Ill sumes various appearances on the constitution, and makes other stages under different cha- racters : if not rightly understood, it may end in an ati-oph}', or nei'vous consumption; or, perhaps, in phthisis, or consumption of the lungs, where the healing art but too often proves in vain." There can be nothing more dreadfid than the picture which Aetius has left us of the ills that are produced by too great a discharge of the semen. "Young people," says he, "have the air and appearance of old age: they become pale, effeminate, benumbed, lazy, base, stupid, and even imbecile; their bodies are bent, their legs are no longer able to carry them, they have an utter distaste for every thing, are totally in- capacitated, and may become paralytic." " The stomach is disordered," says Aetius, "all the body weakened, paleness, bodily decay, and emaciation succeed, and the eyes sink into the head." These testimonies of the most respect- able ancients are confirmed by innumerable mo- dern writers. Sanctorius, who has examined with the greatest attention all the causes which influence the human body, has observed that112 Onanism weakens the stomach, destroys di- gestion, obstructs that insensible perspiration, the irregularity of which produces the most fatal consequences, occasions the liver and kid- neys to be overheated, causes a deposition of stone in the bladder, diminishes the natural heat, and usually occasions the loss of, or at least weakens, the sight. Lommius, in his beautiful commentaries upon the passages of Celsus, sup- ports the testimony of that author with his own just observations. "Frequent emissions of the seed relax, dry up, weaken, enervate, and pro- duce a crowd of evils—apoplexies, lethargies, epilepsies, faintings, the loss of sight, tremors, palsy, spasms, and every species of the most racking gout." The description which Tulpius, that cele- brated physician of Amsterdam, has left us, cannot be read without horror. " The spinal marrow does not only waste, but the body and mind both equally languish, and the man pe- rishes a miserable victim." " Nothing," says that renowned physician, De Louvain, "weakens the stomach and abridges life so soon." Blanchard has been an eye-witness to a simple gonorrhoea,113 to consumptions, and dropsies, which have flowed from this source. When Tabes Dorsalis has existed for a length of time in the constitution, with frequent and in- voluntary discharges of the semen, from ideas arising in the mind during- sleep, or by unna- tural practices, the seminal vesicles become so relaxed and weakened, that they have not suffi- cient power to retain it. By a short continuance in the seminal vesicles, it has riot time to become elaborated, nor to communicate that balsamic, sedative, and strengthening quality to the nerves of the h uman frame, which by nature it was in- tended to do. Almost as fast as it is secreted from the blood, the slightest stimulus in the mind from external objects causes it to run off by its own reservoirs into the urethra; and in course of time the natural secretion of the gland through which the semen passes becomes vi- tiated, till at last these organs become merely a common cistern or sink to carry off' involun- tarily the most precious humour of the human body. Those organs, given to the male and female of every living thing in creation as a means of114 reproducing and continuing the races, have served their purposed intention in all. Man alone has diverged from the path of nature's laws, and the brute, with its instinct only, has far surpassed man with his reasoning faculties. Man has abused and misapplied his powers, in- troducing that which was never intended in na- ture, and, like man's works (unassisted by divine perception), entailed a curse on his bre- thren, proof of his vice and folly. An act without a motive, and that which is still worse, an act with a bad motive, must be an unnatural act— an act of folly, an act of madness. As such only can it be classed: would that it were to end with tlie evil-doer in the first instance; but no, that being whom God, in his mercy, gave as an aid to man in his toil,—that creature, desig- nated in the Holy Scripture by the word " mi7id" (the literal translation of Eve), whilst red-earth is that of Adam,—yes, woman, man's solace from the cradle to the grave, tempted by protestations, gained by deception, and retained in thraldom by tyranny, is injured by man in herself and offspring, and doomed to endless misery. • ' . >115 Can it be possible that man shall willingly forego that bright ray of happiness, attainable by all, the prince and the peasant, the learned and the ignorant. Shall the insane practice, the degrading action of a momentary tremor, be placed in the balance against the natural desire implanted in our nature—to love and be loved ? Scripture sanctions the feeling, and makes a sacrament of the halloAved rite by marriage. Children form links to unite us still closer to each other, though without these latter man called woman, " bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh." Our heavenly Father said, "It is not good that the man should be alone ; I will make him a help meet for him;" and shall man dare to know better than his Maker that which is for his well-being. Man, fulfilling his mission, enters the marriage state, becomes a father, feels " the little strong embrace," and sees " the modest eye that beams for him alone " in the "help" given him. Duties performed bring their consequent pleasure, and, ending life full of years, well may be it said, " Death, where is thy sting?" Is all this to be cast from us ? Is man, a rational being, formed in tlie imao-e of116 his Creator, to be less wise than the brute " he lords it over ?" Is hope, the last anchor of man on the troubled sea of Ufe, to be lost in the depths of despair ? Oh, no ! the beacon of the soul is not extinguished, but darkened, and the bright edge of the cloud is still looming in the distance. Remember, the future cannot help to bear up against the present evil. Each succeeding day adds to the load of misery; the fear of future with its accumulating days and years, will but pile up misery; like Cain, there is a mark on the brow. Ay, think not that the face, that "index to the mind," tells not the tale of de- basement. Thousand phantoms, in varied shapes of disease and death, all flock round the trou- bled heart and brain, pointing, with their skele- ton fingers, to the heart. All the guilty sorrows are felt; feai-, remorse, agony, ineffectual re- .pentance, and the backward rush of sinful thoughts expelled in vain. Watch the colourless face : the anxious look from languid eyes, the pallid lip, uncertain gait, speak a silent language not to be misunderstood. Even placed beyond flie pale of society, andde-117 nied the consolation of pity. Debilitated, spirit- less, frail humanity can scarcely be recognised in the abject thing, the shadow of man. Woman has in him her greatest enemy ; and should avarice or fraud force her to a union with so lost a creature, what can her prospect be during life ? And should, by some extraordinary unlooked- for circumstance, an offspring be the fruit of so sinful a marriage, the child will become the livdng witness of a father's crime, to haunt, with its sickly, puny form, the source of all its woes, while she, the pure, the devoted one, granted in mercy by providence to be the guardian and preserver of the human race, will vainly endea- vour, with her life's best blood, to impart strength to a Aveak branch from a blighted stem. In vain are nightly watchings, daily attentions, caresses, received with idiotic gaze, no pulpy lip to receive the fond mother's kiss, no laughing eye to com- pensate for natural and maternal tenderness. The infant, like the changeling we read of in fairy tales, bears the stamp of the father's guilt; old, though young, dying on the threshold of existence, with the light of life too strong for its enfeebled faculties.118 Can the wife "love, honour, and obey" the moral criminal for whom the law has not yet found a punishment ? Is it more sinful to " prevent existence taking place," than to bring into existence one who must ever be a load to himself and others ? and must woman still be linked to and cherish the author of her misery ? Offended Nature answers no, and demands com- pensation. Not finding this, she inflicts even temporal punishment, and the debt incurred must be paid. Happy thqse who have it left in their power to return to their original position in society ; thrice happy those who have not trans- gressed beyond human aid, and can yet escape that gulf, filled by a host more numerous than are embedded in the fathomless deep. Oh! for that one remaining power, the power of daring to face some one capable of giving aid, morally and medically, to pursue the path of honest purpose : determined on seeking the only means left, a flood of hope remains. Find a friend and adviser in one of the medical pro- fession, one qualified and competent, and the lost treasure will once more be regained. Few secrets can escape an investigator who119 has opportunity and licence to undertake such a quest, and skill to follow it up. A man bur- dened with such an ill should especially seek the intimacy of his physician. If the latter possess native sagacity, and a nameless something more, let us call it intuition; if he shows no intrusive egotism, nor disagreeable prominent character- istics of his own; if he have the power which must be borne with him to bring his mind into such affinity with his patients, that this last •shall, unawares, have spoken what he imagines himself only to have thought; if such revelations be received without tumult, and acknowledged, not so often by an uttered sympathy as by si- lence, an inarticulate breath, and here and there a word, to indicate that all is understood; if to these qualifications of a confidant be joined the advantages afforded by his recognised character as a physician, then, at some inevitable moment, will the soul of the suflferer be dissolved, and flow forth in a dark but transparent stream, bringing all its mysteries to daylight. " So numerous are the ills, both of body and mind, which the disorder of self-abuse induces, and so surely are those ills entailed upon the'120 subsequent life of the person who is the subject, and even his offspring, to the third and fourth generation, (if, indeed, he possess the power of propagating his species, even in the most imbecile forms,) that it becomes the duty of the medical instructor to point out its forms and relations." Diseases are the wages of sin, and the keepers of the house tremble; the consequences are, diminished weight of wasted fabric, too much for the frail legs to support, giving way under the burthen. The temple of God, the living casket of the soul, that image, which is God's image, is wasted, destroyed, and rendered a loathsome disfigured mass, a living corpse, possessing only sufficient consciousness to be aware of its degradation; a living beacon to others on the sea of self-created troubles, lashed by the storms of passion, dying a thousand deaths, awake or asleep, whilst the wasted body bends imploringly to that earth which is so shortly to receive the victim of self-delusion and sensualism. " Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years dra.v nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them."121 The subject has too often been improperly neglected by both instructed writers and scien- tific physicians, because it is one frequently in- volving hidelicate ideas, and requiring unplea- sant revelations, the due consideration of it un- veHing the innate and concealed depravity of our nature. But the vice, the moral depravity, of which the disorder at first consists, soon creates for itself an actual and often incurable physical disease, a necessity for disclosure—a necessity which is not confined to the person concerned, but extended to his family and his ofispring. This being the case with disorders, and their usual consequences, which involve such extensive and important considerations, should they be relinquished by the only persons who are able to investigate them aright, and to restore the mental and the physical imperfec- tions upon which they depend ? Whilst man, by self-abuse, is without those characteristics which distinguish him from the fair sex, the fair sex on the other side (from the same vice) lose that delicacy and beauty peculiar to themselves, the same cause producmg to a certain extent contrary effects man becoming effeminate and languid, bereft K 2122 of that rich full tone of voice, whilst woman on her part acquires that belonging to the male, and the features receive a stamp, of which the figure partakes, giving them that cast which takes away that beautiful rounded form (so well ex- plained in the philosophy of Epicurus), and leaves only sharp angles, discernible in the face, as well as in the contour of the form. The nervous system and digestive organs receive the greatest and most decided injury from these causes. Innumerable maladies arise, traceable to the same fearful practice, too often mistaken for cause, when in reality a consequence. Patho- logy daily confirms the psychological observa- tions. Frequently there is self-evident weaken- ing of the mental faculties : this is so much in- creased, as to render the most trifling occupa- tion irksome, and more often impossible, whilst a drowsiness is felt, which insensibly leads to sleep. At first a short interval re-establishes the mental power; repeated acts, however, be- come indispensable to gain this result; and Hnally, the entire energy and faculty of thinking is lost, or so weakened as to render it unfit for any useful purpose. The nervous susceptibility becomes very great,123 and even painful impressions are received: by the slightest means produced on the outward surface, mental aberration occurs, too often end- ing in insanity. One of the most common con- sequences attendant are attacks of epilepsy. Medical men are too well aware of the cause and continued action, by the repeated and aggravated symptoms observable in patients. To the young patient it should be known, that to become strong, active, with a natural development, is attainable only by a due regard to health. Even when the powers have not been abused, there will be found in both sexes, particularly during summer, (a time of year often fatal,) several symptoms, arising from the force with which nature acts on the frame—growing- pains, weight in the head, giddiness, flushed cheeks, lassitude, palpitations of the heart bleeding from the nose, blood-spitting, &c. The different functions are acted upon from the force with whith the action is going on else- where. Should, during this time, any act take place interfering with the vital action, what must be the effect, when it at all times ex- poses the patient to weakness in the joints,124 wasting of the body, feelings of indolence, di- vested of all desire for rational enjoyments, shortness of breath, difficulty of breathing, mo- mentarily relieved by pressing the hands on the sides, and the least exei'cise causing fatigue. Add to all this the leaden tint of the eyelids, the sallow colour of the complexion, the weak- ness of the pulse, plainly proving that the muscular structure has been attacked, and is rendered incapable of performing their natural offices as intended. Whilst these losses are going on,—whilst the fulness of the form is passing away, and the forces diminish,—the patient becomes daily more nervous and irri- table, and less capable of even supporting the atmospheric changes. Eating, drinking, sleep- ing, produce painful, instead of pleasing sensa- tions. Now, too, are felt symptoms of op- pressiveness, palpitations, inexpressible sensa- tions along the spine, from the back of the head downwards, in the vertebral column, cramps and chills, trembling in the joints, with many vague sensations, almost amounting to pain in all the limbs. These symptoms becoming graver, bring on specific diseases, such as125 hypochondria, hysteria, epilepsy, &c., com- plaints which in many cases never leave the patient. The mental faculties also suffer from the same cause; melancholy, loss of memory, tendency to suicide, insanity, and even madness. In proof of the number of men-rendered insane by this practice, it may be stated, that out of twenty-three persons thus punished by the loss of reason, three only were women. As regards the appetite, in some it is most voracious, digestion taking place almost im- mediately after eating : emaciation continues, and the food seems to pass without going through any process beneficial to the various organs of the system. Let me add to this, symptoms which are complained of by the patients themselves— Weakness in all the intellectual faculties, loss of memory, confusion of ideas, with aberration of mind, continuous inward tremor, anguish, un- usual fear of acts committed considered as crimes. The conscience being in a constant state of anxiety, causing sighs, and even tears, swimming and giddiness in the head; sight and hearing becoming less good than usual; during sleep,126 fearful dreams, waking in awe, and even scream- ing; the strength of the body lessening each day, absence of sleep, and also continuous drowsy feeling, almost lethargic, fainting, hys- terics, spitting up of calculous matter, cough, slow fevers, and consumption. Passing and continued pains: one has head- ache, another pains in the chest, arms, loins, and intestines, stomach, and more particularly in the bowels, and pains felt on all parts of the body on the slightest pressure. Pimples on the skin of the face is one of the most common symptoms complained of, whilst the dilated pupil of the eye is also strong evidence of the practice. Some have suppurating pustules in the nose, on the chest and thighs, with violent itching, difficulty in voiding the urine, nar- rowing of the passage, &c. The intestines also become diseased, violent constipations take place, and at other times diarrhoea, piles, lVc. The mind can scarcely conceive the many dire feelings, pains, and diseases entailed by this unnecessary, irreligious, and insane act. Can we believe in the reasoning faculties of such a man ? When we consider that " the ills whichthe flesh is heir to" are manifold, is it not be- yond reason to bring on voluntarily another chain of ills, surpassing by far all those already in nature. When a great moral law is broken, as a consequence, disorder must take place : this is but too manifest in our daily obser- vations. But what are descriptions, however graphic and vivid, to the actual sight of man lying prostrate on a bed, from which he will be removed only to be carried to his last resting- place, and that at an age when every joy heaven grants seemed a foretaste of the happy future. At an age when vicissitudes ..of common life had not yet hardened the heart, nor blunted the fine edge of feeling; at an age when the sunshine of youth gilded every spot, when hope, young and cheerful, held out the most fanciful and happy pictures,—at such an age, bereft of all the dear relatives and friends, a guileless heart lives, perhaps, to weep over the remains of the victim, dead by an act as suicidal as he who has re- course to the poisoned cup. Would that the lesson could be taught at the bedside of the withering form, and then the sermon would be read without a spoken word.128 There is one other circumstance attending upon the dangerous practice of Onanism, which causes an immense difference from excess in female intercourse. Nature distinctly points OUT THE WANT AND RETAINS ITS POWER, UNASSISTED BY ARTIFICIAL MEANS. This de- sire once gratified, the organ loses its former position, and shows the object fulfilled: but how different in the masturbator! The excitement is continued, and the power nature had given for an indication of her desire is here lost sight of and scorned. The act is continued until the unusual and 'unnatural demands drain the constitution from its very essence of life, for an incomplete and solitary gratification, unshared by another, sinful and joyless, and harbinger of future woes. This fearful practice has caused more deaths than small-pox and consumption ; indeed, their number can never be known, since the loss of lives attributed to many diseases has its cause in Onanism, Sind Onams7n only. The brute crea- tion are free from that which destroys their " lord Sbud master." Were man to follow the instinct of his nature, and not that desire pro- duced by his vitiated imagination, how richly129 would he be repaid by a joyous youth, a vigo- rous manhood, and a peaceful old age. Then might he, as expressed by the poet— " Like ripe fruit drop into his mother's lap, Not rudely pluck'd." Providence, however, has placed with the poison its antidote, and with the disease its curative means. How shall this catalogue of ills be ended ? Can the pen cease to write the warnings ? Can the tongue be still in so sacred a cause ? Are mothers to be deprived of their sons, wives of their husbands, sisters of their brothers, and shall man, proud man (who boasts this realm his own) be too weak to seek his own good, and reject health for illness, and happiness for misery? No, let reason, guided by religion, aid the wanderer from the path of death; let him seek that advice from those whose know- ledge can give him benefit, and let prayer aid him to ask for strength to combat an evil, over which One has already judged, and made the penalty death.* * Vide Thirty-eighth chapter of Genesis.180 " The constant association of sexual disorder, and more or less of generative incapacity, with mental derangement, whether cause or effect, is a remarkable fact, and one which appears not generally known, yet it will be found that every insane individual, whether male or female, is at the same time also suffering from some sort of procreative disability, defect, or disorder, either impotency, sterility, or both, and the removal of the one affection would often seem to prove immediately curative of the other." This fact is fully corroborated. The urine of the majority of the males suffering from insanity has been found, on examination, to contain spermatozoa. Thus the close connexion between sperma- torrhoea and insanity may be said to be well established, without any reasonable doubt. How many are there who, unaware of the cause of their disease, have given way to the habit, acquired, perhaps, at school, or from some accidental pleasurable sensation produced by manipulation. They will take to this fearful vice, and grow up, unaware that they are even committing a sin. Satisfied they are131 not transgressing by coition, they will con- tinue the practice, and even die, without a knowledge of their guilt. At first, when the effects of the cause were taking place, might be observed a gradual change in the figure, such as a stooping gait, shoulders rounded, contraction of the chest, sharpened features, haggard look, and colourless cheeks. Many perceived a change, and remarks were made to relatives and friends, the suflferer even participating in the feehng, though unconscious of the cause. This having been observed, with- out in the slightest manner suggesting the cause, the disease is allowed to progress till the effects only are treated. A medical man is called in (more often the family doctor), one who has, perchance, known the subject of sorrow from a child; one, indeed, whose opinion would be far from crediting the assertion, if made even by a friend, that the patient could be guilty of a cer- tain act. A gradual decay takes place, ascribed to any but the real cause, and the idea is be- coming prevalent that the patient is going into a decline. Remedies are administered which fail, others are employed without benefit, till at last132 the victim sinks under his malady; and thus, in too many instances, ignorance of a cause condemns to the grave, ivhere knowledge would have saved. What has., this fellow-creature not been made to undergo ? What a series of ills might have been checked by a single examination of the urine ? Let a fev? of the last felt symptoms be mentioned. Nervous trepidations, violent pal- pitations of the heart, cough, first at night, then increasing, and causing him to have no rest either night or day. Phlegm made its appear- ance, first frothy and mucous, then greenish, next yellovv^ish, and, at last, blood ! "Facts are stubborn things." So all-im- portant to the human frame is modera- tion, even in its usual and legitimate inter- course, and so great is the necessity of even moderating our feelings, at certain moments, that we have proofs, by referring to the bills of mortality, that the duration of life is longer in woman than man, though the former is exposed to so many more risks, principally dming pregnancy. That modesty and reserve inherent133 to the sex, and, to a great extent, shared by the animal creation, tends not only to health, but to longevity, whilst sparing them a variety of diseases. The truth of this state- ment is daily proved; for woman, when debased by misfortune or ignorance, can do with impunity that which to man would be im- possible,—woman throughout remains passive ; man, on the contrary, active. Young girls, by their social position, or from circumstances, not marrying, remain virtuous even in thought, the very exceptions, proving the rule; whilst the opposite sex at once enter upon every scene of debauchery, proud of that which in reality tends to their disgrace; and, once morally degraded, ultimately receive their punishment in debility, disease, and prematui'e death. How many are there of the female sex whose innate chastity is so great as to find but little pleasure even in the intercourse of their husbands, not from want of love, but from love of virtue; and yet, it is not a bar to fulfilling their mis- sion—that of becoming mothers. On the contrary, the progeny is more often found greater where the female is that which is134 termed cold, than where she bears a name de- signating the contrary. Were a number of young men to undergo the fatigue of those un- fortunate creatures that are ever to be met with, debased by man's incontinence, brief space would be requii'ed to lessen the growing evil; but, by indifference, absence of all excitement, and other qualities given by nature, women are enabled to continue a mode of life seemingly in direct opposition to the laws of nature. It is not unusual for one who has entered on the double path of vice—self-abuse and illegiti- mate intercourse—to believe he will escape because he is enabled to continue without feeling certain ill effects, whilst another at once succumbs. It is a most wonderful cir- cumstance that there is nothing to guide us in the knowledge as to who can, or cannot, with- stand these repeated shocks. Subjects, the same in health, age, and form, pursuing the same course, will be very differently acted upon. And this leads to the conclusion, that safety camiot he found in health, constitution, mode of living, or climate; and those who once enter upon this fearfld road must abide the consequences135 attendant upon the committal of acts as ivickedy as insane, certain of destroying both body and soul, ajid even preparing misery for others, though yet icnborn. The most usual symptoms which take place at first are, weakness in the digestive organs, attended with loss of appetite, irregular, or voracious, also sharp pains taking place during the time of digestion ; to which may be added, vomiting, which resists all remedies (if the practice be continued). General weakness of the respiratory organs sets in, followed by dry cough, hoarseness, weakness of the voice, and want of breath after the least violent ex- ertion, and finally producing a total prostration of the nervous system. Too often are those unfortunate and vicious practices thought little of, because they find few suflPering who are known, like themselves, to be guilty. The fact is, the diseases consequent on these acts, being numerous and varied, may be ascribed to many other causes. He who is pursuing this vile habit liears of complaints, and yet thinks it cannot be the effect of the primary evil. Whatever pain is felt, whatever illness L136 attacks, the one great and only cause is not made chargeable. Too often does the medical man treat the consequences of this complaint, quite losing sight of the cause, at times even discrediting the supposition, when suggested by some one more intimately acquainted with the patient's private habits. How many others again spend their time transgressing, and, whilst ill-doing, satisfied they are leading a life of purity and virtue. I may here sive a short account of one who I trust is now enjoying the benefit received by an open and honest confession. Should this meet the eye of the unwitting offender, let me congratulate him on his victory, and hope the past may ever be present to guard him for the fiiture. The subject of the present case was born in North Wales; he studied hard, under the joint care of his father and tutor, and having, at the age of fifteen, mastered the Latin, some works in that language were accidentally placed in his hands, not suited to his years, being filled with descriptions of a very licentious nature. An ardent disposition, together with a degree137 of thoughtfulness unusual at his age, gave him the manners and appearance of a man when but a lad. About this period he became a slave to this baneful practice; and having done so in moderation, felt not those severe consequences mentioned where it is practised to a greater extent. Lassitude, headaches, diarrhcea, were all treated and ascribed in his hearing, and dis- cussed, as depending upon hard study and a too abstemious mode of living, not suited to his constitution. The practice having been discontinued, and the disease not having taken a too firm hold, he felt better for a short time. Thus did he go on till he attained the age of thirty, when a positive nervous illness confined him to his bed. An old friend of his father, who had seen service in India, and had seen the consequences of similar cases, at once bluntly asked him if he had ever com- mitted himself in a certain way. The sudden colour which rose to his cheeks and brow, together with the momentary hesitation, werJ sufficient proofs of the fact existing. The pa- tient hid his face, burst into tears, and at once seeing the cause, till then unknown, of all L 2138 his pains and sufferings, became affected to such a degree as to render him scarcely- reasonable. The old gentleman, seeing at once all the delicacy attending upon the position, reasoned, advised, argued, and at last was gratified to find a willing and grateful listener to the plans proposed. After hav- ing been made acquainted with all the circumstances here related, I had the satis- faction, after a course of treatment which was strictly followed, to restore to hope, and health one who has since shown a gratitude far beyond my most sanguine wishes. Eighteen months after he was en- gaged to a lady who I feel sure will have found one capable of appreciating each kind action, whilst willing to reciprocate to the utmost every feeling of love and friendship. It has ever been a source of anxiety to me that the certainty of such a practice being in ex- istence at the time of visiting a patient cannot be arrived at without incurring charges as unjust as unfounded. The medical man is called at a stage of the disease when complicated139 maladies have supervened, and the first cause IS lost amid their number. The treatment pur- sued may be found ineffective, and the malady rendered longer, and uncertain as to its termi- nation, from the want of one word or hint as to its cause. Man at his birth weighs but as 5 parts to the 100; by the time he has attained his tenth year he will have increased 60 to the 100. At sixteen there will still be wanting a fifth, and at eighteen, one-tenth. His growth is nearly completed at twenty, though he may still be short of the full weight, since there are some who gain even until thirty years of age. If the usual legitimate intercourse be of such importance as to require a due attention as re- gards age, what must be the consequence of self- abuse at a period when the body has not even arrived at its proper growth. The legislators have one and all felt it their duty to fix a proper season for marriage, in order to obtain a strong and healthy population. Variations observable are owing to the many different climates: to insure the desideratum, they were ever guarded in framing their140 laws. Thus Lycurgus ordained that men should not marry before the age of 37; whilst Plato enacted that any child born from a woman under 20 and a man under BO should be considered as infamous, or be slighted, and reckoned unworthy of respect. Rousseau remarked, that up to 20 tke frame of man grows, or increases, and thus requires all his native vigour. Nature thus may be said to insist upon continence, and when this is not pursued, the constitution must suffer. In examining the laws of nature, it will be found that the brute creation do not copulate till they have arrived at full maturity ; indeed, where the exceptions are found, it will be owing to the civilization of man, since, had they been left in their primitive state, in order to obtain the female, combats must take place between the males, requiring the full development of all their muscles to insure possession. Those who breed horses know too well the value of waiting the proper time. It is, however, useless to go farther in this matter. Daily observation, the writings of all those who mention the subject, are more than sufficient toprovethedangersattenciant141 upon giving way at an early age to the fancies of the mind, producing precocious desires; and though unfortunately there are many who follow the dictates of their passions at all ages, yet its greatest danger is in youth, when a foundation should be laid for a good old age. Many terri- ble and afflicting diseases are the consequences of. early intercourse, or of that which is still worse, the baneful self-debasing practice so often alluded to in these pages. If there be a time when even legitimate connection would be injurious, there is also a time when, so far from being productive of ills, it may become beneficial to the human frame—(always taking into consideration that use and abuse are two very different things: whatever be the subject, all are open to degrees.) Thus, one man, by abstaining throughout the whole course of his life (if in the enjoyment of health), would be the extreme of the one who, having but one idea, allows the same to weaken his mind and frame. Both would be wrong, whilst the true medium would be the one likely to carry out the views of an all-wise Providence. " Extremes meet," and all extremes are bad; consequently the proper period will be when man has arrived at142 full maturity, fitted by nature for the propa- gation of his race. This is fully demonstrated by the microscopical signs in looking for the spermatic animalculae. This test is so certain, that it becomes visible to the eye (where the microscope has sufficient power), enabling the practitioner at once to satisfy the patient. Doubts are laid aside, proofs are established, and a decided answer can be given, which, without the aid mentioned, might cause mistakes from which most serious consequences would ensue. For advice, the usual Fee of £,\ must be sent direct to the author, at his estahlishment, directed Dr. ROBERT J. JORDAN, 29, George Street, Hanover Square, {Private Entrance, 44a, Maddox Street.) London, W. To those residing at a distance, or who, from circumstances, find it utterly impossible to avail themselves of the advantages derivable from a single interview, on a full and minute state- ment of the case, together with a remittance of £5, medicine will be forwarded, prepared ex-143 pressly to suit the peculiarities of each special disease. They must at the same time send a two-ounce flat bottle, containing the urine, securely corked and sealed, packed carefully in wool {to prevent breaking), in a seidlitz box, which, with the flat bottle, can be obtained from any druggist. The parcel to be addressed thus— CARRIAGE PAID, De. ROBERT J. JORDAN, 2d, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W. Every expedient is adopted by the author to ensure the most inviolable secrecy, so desirable to the patient* Many correspondents have a decided objection to Post-Office Orders made payable to any known name in a provincial town where they reside ; it is therefore left to the patients to have them drawn in favour of any Christian and surname they may fancy, at the same time acquainting Dr. Jordan, to whom the Order is made payable. For the convenience of patients residing in remote parts of Europe, America, or the " AU Post-Office orders to be made payable at the Post- Office, Vere Street, Cavendish Square.144 East or West Indies and Australia, £10 and £20 cases of Medicine are prepared, so that there may not he any intermission in taking the same, ivhere perseverance is absolutely necessary. As it frequently happens that there are pecu- liarities in certain casesj which require a different treatment, Dr. Jordan wishes to impress on the mind of the patient the importance (where an interview is impossible), of having the urine tested by means of the Microscope. It will, therefore, be advisable to send a small flask securely packed in a basket, at the same time enclosing a bank-note or bill on a London house for £10 or £20, in order to have a packet of medicine sent out by the next mail, which would, in all probability, be sufficient to meet the exigencies of all cases. By thus acting a considerable delay is saved; whereas, by writing for advice, a period of five or six months is lost in corresponderlce before the proper remedies can be forwarded, and in this period the patient gets rapidly worse, so as frequently to render all attempts at restoration perfectly abortive. Parcels, securely packed, and protected from observation, forwarded to any part of the world.145 The following questions should be answered as minutely and clearly- as possible, to which may be added any subject not mentioned in the printed form, together with a flat bottle, capable of containing from one to two ounces, filled with the urine of the patient, the urine to be that which is voided on rising in the morning, in order to have it as pure as possible, and enable the chemical and microscopical analysis to be performed with greater certainty, espe- cially as regards the seminal fluid and sperma- tozoa. The bottle, with its contents, should then be stopped and hermetically sealed, so as to prevent the least evaporation or change sometimes pro- duced by the action of the air; it should then be wrapped up in wool, or wash-leather, to prevent breaking, and if placed in a case its safety will be further ensured, since at times delay may be dangerous to the sender. This must be ac- companied hy £\, which will entitle patients to advice and testing of the contents of the bottle by the lately improved microscope, Post-Office Orders may be made payable to Dr. Robert J. Jordan, Post Oflice, OldUG Cavendish Street, London; or in any other name, by duly giving notice. The questions are placed under tlie head of letters, so as to give less trouble to the patient in writing, and thus prevent unneces- sary trouble:— A. What age, and if gaining -or losing flesh. B. What temperament, nervous, bilious, san- guine, or lymphatic. C. Describe mode of living, whether tem- perate or free. D. Married or single. E. State of bowels, regular, constipated, or relaxed ; also colour of tongue on rising in the ■morning ; general state of appetite. Be parti- cular in stating the number of times urine is voided in the four and twenty hours. F. Describe mental affections and bodily ail- ments, such as pains, and appearances of the skin as regards pimples, &c., and if subject to perspiring awake or during sleep. G. If any hereditary complaint exists in the family, transmitted by the male or female line. li. Habits, occupation, position in life, and147 if, in consequence, sedentary or out-door living be pursued. I. If attacked by any venereal disease pre- vious to the present one. J. General answers as to the temper, whether cheerful, irritable, gloomy, &c. ^'•B.—It is highly important that the whole or part of these questions be answered as ex- plicitly as possible, in order that a speedy and permanent cure may be etFected. It need scarcely be mentioned, that the ad- vantages to be gained by a personal interview would be sufficient to warrant any sacrifice on the part of the patient, since many subjects may be elicited which the medical man can fathom at once by personal observation. A disease must be known before it can be cured, and con- sequences be foreseen in order to be avoided. Afev.' days should be spent on an object of such vital importance. There is scarcely one man, whose position is above that of a daily labourer, who has not one part of the year for his annual holiday, which is too often made for the mere change of air, waste of time, and money : these are lavished with unsparing hand and shall he148 who is suffering from a malady which is secretly but surely undermining his constitution, be chary of a few days, in order to gain the assurance of his true position, with the certainty of a happy termination to his troubles ? Shall man refuse to accept the advantages and inventions the pre- sent era affords him, and blindly await the comino- evil ? If such a suicidal act be his, he may depend on the malady having made a se- rious inroad on his reasoning faculties; and it will be well to take the advice here offered, and at once consult one, who, having made this peculiar branch his study, in order to prove to him the folly and sin of delay whilst giving him the means of health and consequent happiness. The advantage of one interview will be all that is required, and this one may prove (as it has done in many other cases), the crisis of a man's life, the turning-point of his existence; and, where all is to be gained, the loss of that op- portunity may not be risked, to become ever a source of regret, when found, from the ravages of the malady, to be too late. One happy mo- ment, one last solid determination, the case fully explained, and a life's folly may be effiiced149 by an open confession; whilst the oppressed and timid will leave, freed from a weight from the assurance given by one pledged to a sacred duty, and thus restore " the lost sheep to the fold." Should it, however, not be practicable, from dis- tance, or other circumstances, recourse must be had to correspondence, when the case will receive the most mature consideration and the greatest attention, in order to effect the desired object. The hours of attendance are daily from 11 to S, and 6 to 8. Address, 29, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W. A few remarks will here be made on the ne- cessity of those residing in or returning from the colonies, whose constitution may require attention both in health and disease. Man, gifted by nature beyond all other crea- tures, has, in addition, the capability of being en- abled to exist in every climate, the blood retain- ing an equal temperature, be it in the interior of Africa or amid the frozen regions of the North, whilst his constitution is proof against sudden transitions from heat to cold, or cold to heat. There are, however, many outward circum-150 stances which may have an influence on the human frame, owing, in a great measure, to former habits continued, when cessation would have been necessary. It is thus found that those born in this our native country, (the geo- graphical position of which enables its inha- bitants to enjoy the advantages derived from the bracing qualities of the atmosphere,) on their arrival in the colonies become languid and enervated, losing, in a great measure, that energy so highly and justly estimated. That the con- tinued and intense heat affects and enlarges the liver is a fact so self-evident, that it will only be required to call the attention of the reader to the well-known delicacy sold under the name of "foies gras de Lijon,'' {i. e. fat liver of Lyons).* The manner in which this article is prepared will be given, in order to show the analogy ex- isting as regards the effect the Indian climate pro- duces on the human frame. (The following pro- cess is a disgrace to the civilized era of the 19th century.) Geese are kept closely confined before a large fire, railed in so as to prevent escape, * The preparation, in realitj', consists of diseased livers of geese.151 when, in order to assuage the burning thirst with which they are pained, they seek relief in drinking vinegar, which is the only beverage placed within their reach. Their torture is con- tinued until exhausted nature, unable to sustain further infliction, sinks under the continuous pangs, and death terminates the delicacy for the "bonne bouche du gourmand." It will be easy to see the effect a burning sun must have on those who are unaccustomed to such an unusual heat, more especially when attire per- fectly at variance with the climate is continued, and exercises adhered to injurious even to the natives. Unfortunately the liver is not the only part affected. The nervous system shares in the ills produced, and many find themselves afflicted with all the "symptoms so often men- tioned in this work caused by self-abuse, when, in reality, suffering from the depressing effect of the climate. The relaxed state of the system requires invigorating medicines to restore the daily losses sustained, and unless a due equi- librium be established, complete prostration must take place. I have in all cases found, that by the prescribed use of the bath, according to the152 strength of the patient, together with galvanism, the medicines have acted vv^ith increased power, and the results have been most satisfactory. The plentiful use of water cannot be too much attended to, both as regards cleanliness and its hygeian properties. Where cold cannot be made use of, let warm be employed, but its ab- sence from any part of the frame must ultimately be injurious. The wondrous structure of the skin, with its pores and absorbents, receives additional nou- rishment and strength from that great power. The ancients made the sea the birthplace of Venus, thereby implying, allegorically, that the productive and generative power emanated from water. It will be advisable, both to the residents abroad and those returning to this country, to place themselves for a few weeks under judi- cious treatment, in order to watch any symptoms which may tend to show that there is some slight constitutional change taking place ; when, by an early attention to the subject, proper remedies will afford re-establishment to health, and know- ledge on this point prevent consequences as153 complex as dangerous, which may be avoided by seeking the necessary information to be acquired by a personal visit or letter, the latter means being employed where the former is impossible. Before giving to the reader a few cases, se- lected indiscriminately from the many, it will be necessary to remark that the names and ad- dresses have been purposely omitted, though the style and composition have been left as taken from the originals, the object in view being to show the varied forms in which the insane and fatal vice acts. The letters have been^transcribed verbatim, and where dots appear, they merely describe such acts as might perchance be read without being either necessary or useful. M 2154 CASES. No. 1. Case of F. G. « I am nineteen years of age; sober and tem- perate, and scarcely ever drink wine, whiskey, or any exciting liquor. I had but once intercourse with one of the female sex, which was about four months ago, after which .... I have a sad habit of exciting myself .... I intend to use all my exertions to leave off doing so, though I find it a very hard matter, the habit being almost confirmed. " The first thing I observed on my ... . was- a spot which came on the side of it, having the appearance of a large pimple that was ripe and ready to burst; but that is gone off, and left a little redness. About three weeks ago I felt now and then a slight inclination to void my urine, and, when I did so, had scarcely any ; and after a while I got worse, indeed, so bad, that at times I could not keep it; and whilst doing so, I felt a tickUng hot pain, particularly about the mouth of the canal, and the desire to cause my lu-ine to flow would increase every day, as also the pain. Having taken a medicine which was recommended to me, I injected some, and I regret to say it has done me more harm than good, for I perceive I have a, great running of a slightly greyish thick stuff, which has a very disagreeable smell: it did not do so before.CASES. 155 " The outward appearance of the parts show no marks of disease, at least so far as I can perceive. My chest has a few small spots, as also my chin and sides of my temples. " My present symptoms consist of pain at the mouth of the part when passing water, and great discharge, lowness of spirits, and want to sleep " No. 2. Mr. E. P. writes as follows:— " I am one of those unfortunate men who has ruined what was in early youth a remarkably robust constitution, by giving way to my ac- cursed self-gratification, which habit I acquired at school when only about 12 years of age, and continued sometimes as often as five and six times a week, until I was nearly 22, which was about a year ago, when, having met with your valuable work, its contents alarmed me, and opened my eyes to my ill-doings. " My mind and body are frightfully weakened, owing to my excessive nervousness, want of perception, and almost total loss of memory, with absence of mind and general debihty. I am unable to discharge the requirements of business with satisfaction ; indeed, unless speedily relieved, I fear I shall not be fit for any business at all.156 CASES. "I am rather tall of stature, pale, and thin, especially about my hmbs, although I eat heartily of plain good food. My hands ti-emble, from being so awfully nervous, and the slightest excitement in business matters renders me a perfect fool, unable to do any thing with correct- ness and precision. [Here follows an account of an interview with one of the opposite sex, wherein the writer finds himself unable to per- form certain duties.] "I have slight emissions when straining at stool; I have also nocturnal ones every week; if, however, in 'the company of women, I have them two or three times a-week. I cannot ex- pel my water with any thing like the force I could at one time. I have slight pain in the parts. I trust, with your kind assistance, my physical and mental powers may be regained. My present dulness, compared with the aptness with which I worked at school, is something fearful. I feel totally unable to .... Five years ago I committed the greatest error of my life, in giving way to the act of self-pollution, and con- tinuing it more or less for two years, about which time I contracted gonorrhoea, followed by swollen testicles, this being the first attack of disease I had suffered. Having had your work lent to me by a friend saved by you, Mr. ■ , I called on a medical man in our town, vainlyCASES. 157 thinking he might be the means of restoring me to health. He treated me for gonorrhoea and swollen testicles. Since then I have had several bottles of medicine, but, I regret to say, without any benefit. I;' have consequently de- termined to place myself under your care, and hope you will be as successful with me as you were with Mr. , who from the first was anxious that I should be treated by you. In the first place, my left testicle is still wrong, reduced in size, soft, and very tender. I have also a dull pain all down the thigh and calf of my leg, varying according to the amount of exercise I take; my penis is always more or less inflamed, sloiivelled, and tender, particur- larly the foreskin, which looks angry, and seems to have left its original position close to the glands of the penis: after sponging with cold water, upon drawing it forward over the neck it seems to turn under, causing for some time an uneasy feeling. During evacuation semen escapes, but not as yet to any great extent. My health is any thing but bad, as my constitu- tion originally was very good: how long my strength will bear up I know not, but I leave all to your better judgment."CASES. 158 No. 3. Lieutenant W. J. B. gives us the following account:— " At 14 years of age I commenced the prac- tice of masturbation, and at 17 or 18 had ex- cessive emissions: at the age of 23 they decreased in number, and passed off with the urine, leaving me quite exhausted both in body and mind. A year and a half previous to this I had contracted gonorrhoea, which continued six or seven months. " At the age of 25 I contracted gonorrhoea, which lasted twelve months ; and then stopping it all of a sudden with iron, copaiva, and nitre, it caused a burning heat in my back and left side about the kidneys. I have often passed water in the morning, and after remaining some time, it presents at the bottom a red sediment mixed up with a clotted matter. I have ab- stained from all stimulants and liquors, and even ales. My greatest trouble for the present is a. frequent desire to urinate, accompanied by a smarting heat in the passage, and a burning pain in my left side every one or two hours, leaving me quite feeble, and caused at the least excitement. Three months ago I passed a stone through the urinary passage in the shape of a cone; it remained in the duct for twelve159 CASES. hours, stopping the flow of water, and then shot out through the penis: it was supposed to come from the kidneys, and to be the largest ever extracted. I have bathed myself for twelve months together, night and morning, around the parts in cold water, which has done me much good. I am 30 years of age, and am employed in the R. N., &c." No. 4. M. A. W., civil engineer, writes thus : " I have been suffering for some time past from a gleet, the result of an ill-cured go- norrhoea contracted in the East Indies, and am occasionally troubled with nightly emissions, in consequence of improper practices in my youth. I will be glad to call should you think my case such as may be considered curable. I find in holding intercourse with a woman discharge takes place before the time; in making water I feel a burning sensation in the spinal canal. The discharge from the gleet is clear, and rather thick or stringy, and sometimes a week or a fortnight may pass over without my having an emission of semen at night. I should hke your opinion, in a letter, of my case, as to the probable • chance of my ultimate cure. I am160 CASES. 29 years of age, and for the'last seventeen years have been constantly employed in Her Majesty's Navy, generally in tropical climates. I need not tell you that the fearful habit which has impaired my health has been relinquished some time ago," &c. No. 5. Major G. C. C. wrote the following letter from India, and on receipt of a £20, case of medicine, made his homeward voyage, and before his return to England, was perfectly reinstated in health :— "Finding myself in a very weak state of health, I am sure the whole cause had been brought on by my own folly. At an early age I practised that which is often known by the name of self-pollution, and did so for some time without any apparent hurt to myself, but at last it came home to me. I am now incapable of performing that duty so wanted in man (pro- creation). I have a continual weakness in the back, frequent pains in the sides, and ray memory fails me very much; weakness in my limbs, especially after a cold: to be near a woman causes a discharge, or a continual dribbling from the penis. Some time ago I had frequent discharges during sleep, but discon-CASES. 161 tinued lately, as I had given up the habit for at least three years. I am now about 30 years of age, have been in India for twelve years, my situation in life is an officer, and my mode of living regular," &c. &c. No. 6. T. S,, studying for the Bar, thus explauas himself:— " I take the liberty of writing to you, to ask your advice in my case. I will tell you, as briefly as I possibly can, what it is. When a boy, about 14 or 15 years of age, I had a great desire for women, but was always too timid to go with them. I would follow them round the street, but this did not satisfy my desire then; but I soon found that 1 could do so alone by manual friction, which I am sorry to say I car- ried to a great extent, doing so almost every day, and sometimes twice or three times a-day ; then I would think I was doing myself an in- jury, and leave off for a week, but the desire came again, and I could not resist it, and I car- ried this on for fou.r or five years. I have never been with a woman more than six or seven times. I have had the disease twice, rather badly, and I let it continue some time before I went for advice, for I did not know what was the matter.|g£^ CASES. with me. A friend of mine, a chemist, gave me some mixture, balm and capsules. It re- remained on me seven or eight weeks; the last time, about six months ago, it stopped on me about three weeks. I took some more mixture; there was nothing to be seen, no ulcer or swelling, merely a discharge, and tenderness in the groin. I have not felt any effects from it since. I had a shght ulcer in •the throat, but very slight, about three weeks ago, and have had a sore throat once since ; I also find a Httle soreness in my nose, but I have a severe cold on me now. I am now troubled with nocturnal emissions. The sight of a female frequently causes erection, and a little irritation will cause emission: the penis is very small, but larger when erect. I am ■about five and a-half feet in height, thin about the body and thighs, lower parts large, with large veins in the legs; my face was once very fat and fi-esh coloured, but it is iiow thin, long, and not so happy looking, nor so much colour; memory bad; not so much energy ; sight pretty good. I find a little matter round my eyes in the morning, difficult to wash off; can sleep well all night, except when awoke by emissions. Skin quite clear, and free from pimples or sores; pain over the eyes oc- casionally. I live regularly and well, appetite good, take plenty of exercise, but often feel Ian-163- CASES. guid, with pain in the back; care very Httle about society, hands tremble sometimes, bowels generally rather confined." No. 7. The eldest son of a landed proprietor in Suf- folk writes the following :— "At the age of 15, whilst at school, I com- menced improper practices, but did not feel any ill effects from it until about two years since, when my sight began to fail me, and at times have been seized with spasms, and once lost the use of my right side for about two months. I have been gradually getting worse, and the following symp- toms have appeared :—The penis much smaller than usual, the 'testicles' are constantly throb- bing; pains in my back (middle) at times. When at stool a thin fluid drops from the penis. I have a constant dread of making water. Rest much disturbed at night, and within the last week have had nocturnal emissions without an erection, and my bowels are more confined than usual. " I am in my 28th year, and I believe my constitution to be very good. I can take any amount of exercise without fatigue; my mode of living temperate and regular; drink neither wine, spirit, nor ale during the day ; in the even-]^g^ CASES. intr I invariably take a pint of stout and smoke three or four cigars. I have been a very great smoker in my time," &c. No. 8. B. S. P., manager of the mines, thus describes his case :— " I beg to submit my case to your considera- tion, which I will endeavour to explain in as explicit and concise a manner as possible. First, I have (with shame I write it), indulged in viasturhation from my earliest youth (my age is now 24). For some time past I have so far mastered myself as to give it up entirely, which I can assure you has cost me no little endea- vour. Hi. " That vile passion at length led me to in- dulge in sexual intercourse, so that about three years ago I had the venereal disease. Its symp- toms were as follows: red spots on the nut of the penis, with a yellow discharge. I conse- quently applied to one for relief. He gave me pills and a blacklotion, but from carelessness, I think, in not taking the medicine regularly, I was eight months ere I got restored. Another time, about four months after I was better, I again had venereal disease, symptoms similar to the first, so that I stupidly tmd foolishly thoughtCASES. 1()5 to cure myself, and the plan I took was, I bought in the chemists' shops mercurial pills, which I took, altogether, as far as I can remember, about two or three dozen, if not more. I got better at last; my penis got well, only at the bottom of the nut there is a small sort of proud skin, about the size of a pin's head, where one of the sores was. Again, and for the third time, I had that vile disease, through my own impropriety, about five months ago, and the result was, penis all inflamed and a large round swelling on the right ride of the groin. I applied for relief, this time, to one that professed to cure venereal dis- eases. He gave me some lozenges of a cinnamon colour, as also a blister for the swelUng on the groin: but the inflammation has not ceased, nor the swelling disappeared. "For a considerable time back I have observed, in the morning when I vise, ^Lyelloioslimy matter on my tongue, and a very disagreeable taste in my mouth: I am afraid I have become salivated from the eflfects of the mercury. I have also at times pains, although slight, on the right side of the groin, and sometimes on the left, and in my knee-joints, as if it were rheumatism. I some- times think that the disease, from not bein^ thoroughly rooted out, is perhaps beginning afresh, or is working inwardly, but you will be the best judge. I have been as particular in stating my case as I can; and what I would likeCASES. 166 to know is, first, is the venereal disease still in my system; secondly, have I become salivated from an improper use of mercury. " I forgot to mention that I have observed a yellowish brownish matter in the urine, but as I thought nothing was the matter with me, and having at times a bedfellow in the sanae room, I gave it no heed. I do not think he is, or ever was, affected with any thing of the sort. Some days it is perfectly clear, other times, especially when allowed to remain any length of time, very muddy," &c. No. 9. Case of E. H. C. :— " 1 contracted syphilis three months ago : the symptoms were, itching of the foreskin, then in- flammation, attended with severe smarting pain. Before it got any worse, I im.mediately obtained medical advice, and was ordered to wash the part with soap and water night and morning. The symptoms remained the same at the end of two- months. I was given a cooling lotion to apply to the part affected two or three times a-day : after- wards a running sore, or ulcer, made its appear- ance underneath, at the lower extremity of the penis, and remained so for a fortnight, and then healed; then pimples came, with a good deal of inflammation about them, which appeared andCASES. 167 disappeared, and now still continue to do so. I have a slight swelling, attended with a little pain, as if a bubo were forming, which then leaves again. Thinking I am not being properly ti eiited, I am induced to place myself under your care. Mr. having been cured of a simi- lar complaint by you, gave me your name, &c., '&c. The inflammation and smarting pain still continues. I am of a spare habit of body, and suffer a good deal from constipation. My profes- sion, that of a surveyor, keeps me a great deal in doors," &c. No. 10. Case of P. G., head clerk in a mercantile house:— '•I have had the disorder for nearly six months I had medical advice, but am very little better ; I would wish you to prescribe for me if you thought my case could be cured. The first symptom I had was a little discharge from thepenis,which became swollen, and then a lump formed in the groin; t.l:e penis cracked down like an arch ; also excru- ciating pain in making water and when warm in bed, which has continued to this time. The dis- charge is about three spots (as large as a shilling) per day, sometimes more ; the penis has come to its natural size, the lump in the groin is much smaller, but a little tender, and the penis is168 CASES. still cracked; the discharge is of a greenish colour. " My constitution is very delicate," &c. No. 11. Case of the Rev. , incumbent of . Mr. —■— is 37 years of age, and has taken at times tonics, but with little avail. Mr. is a married man, and his wife is 39 years of age, and they have been married two years. The erection of the penis does not seem to be suffi- cient to penetrate far enough in the act of copu- lation ; and there is sometimes a little clear and transparent discharge at the end of the penis, but that only when any thing occurs to excite a little erection. Mr. has never had any impure connection, nor any disease but this weakness, which renders the desire to perform the act of copulation more frequent, but without suf- ficient abiHty. Mr. cannot tell how long this weakness may have existed; but when he was a boy at school, for a short time, and never, he thinks, after 16 years of age, he was led into the practice mentioned in Scripture; after that he used frequently to be troubled by nocturnal emissions, which caused pimples upon the face, and these he used to try to cure by Epsom salts, this he thinks perhaps rendered the generative organs weak and easily excitable, but which he169 CASES. never gratified. There is no kind of appearance of any external disease. The weakness is more perceptible when the bowels are relaxed, and after taking aperient medicine. There is no scalding or pain whatever in voiding urine. No. 12. S. M. M., of Edinburgh, thus states his case :— " Having lately met with a gentleman who had the advantage of your treatment, I am induced to communicate with you on the subject of my health. Before entering into details I would wish to lay before you a few particulars with re- ference thereto. First, having been guilty (I am grieved to say) of the hateful sin of self-pollu- tion, the effects of which I was totally ignorant, having been first enlightened on the subject by a conversation which passed between two medical students, friends of mine, who are at present working for an examination. Secondly, I have discontinued the sin since October 1857, that being the time I was first made aware of the injury I was doing to myself. Thirdly, although I did not feel much better, still I was less troubled with an intense pain in the back, just above the seat, together with constant nocturnal emissions. Fourthly, the evils of the offence were thus only partly removed, as you will perceive by ray170 CASES. account of my present symptoms, which 1 enclose. Lastly, I would beg of you to take my case into your most serious consider- ation, as I shall be obliged to consummate a marriage next July, with a lady to whom I am engaged. It is a ' family agreement,' and there- fore unavoidable, which you will easily under- stand. I would merely add, my position in society is such as to enable me to follow any course of treatment you may think necessary. My age is 22, live generously, and have been guilty of self-abuse for many years, and suffer from pains in the head night and morning, sensation of sickness at the pit of the stomach, giddiness in the head after dinner, with burning of the cheeks, and flushed appearance ; motions costive, and then again much relaxed, with a running from the penis after the least exertion ; the water at times quite white, and at other times of colour like blood, which leaves a sedi- ment. Nightly emissions continue to take place, testicles lax, and slightly pendulous at niglit and morning: I wear a purse to relieve them, and cannot effect an erection without great trouble; when produced, spontaneous emissions take place with or without an erection, only requiring contact with a woman.171 CASES. No. 13. , M.P. for the county of ■, writes:—• Sir,—I have had the misfortune, in common with others, to allow my passions to get the better of my reason^ and pursued a practice equally pernicious to body and soul. I am sink- ing to an early grave by a continual loss of seminal fluid; my complexion is cadaverous, and movements checked by weakness in the legs and loins, so great as to cause me at times to grasp at the different articles of furniture whilst crossing from one end of the apartment to the other. I cannot believe any one was ever doomed to such pangs as 1 am experiencing. Without a miraculous intervention of Providence I cannot last long. Should there be any chance of only restoring to me the calmness of mind I enjoyed in former days, by checking seminal losses, I should feel but too happy to remu- nerate your exertions to the full extent of my power. As to a total re-establishment of health, this I know to be perfectly impossible, since my feelings have completely changed, from a lively disposition to that of a dejected and even sullen character. Trusting you will take my case into most serious consideration, I remain. Sir," &c. It will scarcely be necessary to add that the cases mentioned, after the usual remedies had been employed, were brought to a happy issue. The majority availed themselves of the advantage gained by a personal interview, which rendered the time employed in the cure of the complaints much shorter than if treated by correspondence.172 CONCLUSION. Reader, we now part company; but before doing so, let me impress on your mind the ne- cessity, the vital importance, and the fearful risk of delay. In perusing the foregoing pages you have been made acquainted with your structure and functions, together with the con- sequences of swerving from the laws of nature, and the diseases attending upon indiscriminate connection. The practice of masturbation has been referred to ever and anon, so that you might be fully impressed with the subject. But where would have been the utility of giving all tliis knowledge had there not been in store remedies enabling the writer to relieve and cure the varied maladies described. In many instances, . these last mentioned, arising fi'om sensuality and exhaustion, are so complicated in their na- ture and origin, as to require the immediate and direct care of the qualified and experienced practitioner. The human frame, like a fine work of mechanism, may be disarranged, and consequently the most simple naeans will often suffice to replace the same in order; but it also happens that the seeming trifle may be the very pivot on which rests the mainspring of action. A mere trifle then may produce the absolute necessity of an interview with a medical man: the importance of a case173 is not to be distinguished by the patient. It is in the power of any individual, no matter what his daily avocations may be, to make a journey, distance being of little moment when the future happiness of himself and loved ones are placed in the balance. The in- mate of a cottage has infinitely more at his command, in the present day, than the most powerful potentate had in days of yore. For a nominal sum, wishes may be conveyed nearly as soon as expressed, hundreds of miles traversed with the rapidity of the carrier-pigeon, and all at an expense too trivial to require men- tioning. If, then, with all these advantages at command, one can be found who would con? tinue an evil, whilst having the power of re- gaining all that is desirable, his intellect must indeed be gone beyond hope to refuse the boon in store. Let nothing prevent you adopting the necessary means for the removal of those for- midable maladies described in this little work. The turning-point of a man's life often depends on a thought, a word, or action. Should doubt exist as to the nature of a malady, why not seek a certainty by one consultation ? it would, be more than folly to reject so great and solid an advantage, productive in after life of regrets, mingled with pain and anguish at the oppor- tunity rejected when inevitably lost. " Pro- crastination is the thief of time," but, alas! more174 often " the thief of health." For these reasons does it become imperative on the part of a pa- tient to seek an interview, in order that the numerous inquiries relative to those vital organs, such as the lungs, heart, stomach, liver, &c., may be carefully examined and judged of, whilst the urine, warm from the bladder, unchanged by atmospheric action, may be tested by che- mical process and microscopic power. Con- clusions may then be drawn from the appear- ance of the tongue, eyes, skin, complexion, &c., forming a chain of evidence which places the medical man in a position, as regards the dia- gnosis of his patient's case, to judge with un- erring opinion as to his power of restoring health, and consequent happiness. Were the patient aware of the amount of information derived from a careful and lengthened visit, the ad- vantage would never be neglected, and the sufferer seeking a cessation of his ills, v/ould be but too happy to avail himself of the lasting benefit. A personal consultation will afford a subject which, in justice to the public in general, cannot be sufficiently impressed on the mind, and dwelt on, when permanent cure is the object in view. But if, notwithstanding all that has been said, circumstances or distance renders this impos- sible on the part of the patient, then the next best thing to be done is to make a most minute175 and clear statement of the case, filling up the questions as marked in the list of questions, page 146, by which means the nature of the dis- ease may be described by letter, signed by any initials, or fictitious name, at the wish of the writer, when the subject will receive immediate consideration, be thoroughly investigated, and seriously deliberated upon, the utmost so- licitude evinced, and certain means adopted to restore the sufferer to that vigorous health which may have been checked or lost by youthful indiscretion, or other causes. Reader, hesitate not in the performance of that sacred duty which you owe to yourself and those who may be depending upon your ex- ertions or love; seek by every means to enter once more on the duties assigned you with a healthy frame and a clear intellect; re-enter once more that pale of society of which you form apart, with that consciousness of equality and dig- nity to v/hich all have a right. The prize and reward are great, do not let a momentary timidity deprive you of the happiness of years. In regaining lipalth, you will regain the joys felt in former days, when the heart was fresh and the spirit of health was yours. Doubly will such pleasures be felt from having for a time been withheld, meet compensation for past miseries. Common sense, love, friendship, social duties, religion, all de-176 ^ mand this adt of justice at your hands ; and the very knowledge of having sought the means of happiness will restore to you tenfold those feelings now unknown: whilst I shall have added one more to the many, who on their restoration to health have thanked me in terms most gratifying to my medical capacities, producing friendships which have ever proved lasting, originating in a confidence which it has, and ever will be my most anxious endeavour to seek and merit. With this assurance I now take leave, and terminate this httle work, feelmg confident that " the tree will be known by the fruit." ADDRESS, Dr. ROBERT J. JORDAN, 29, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W. ^ Private Entrance— 44a, Maddox Street, . 1 Jtepffi»St^TREET.Hours of Consultation from 11 till 8. Sundays excepted. Just Publislied, iJiHE following POPULAR MEDICAL WORKS by ROBERT J. JORDAN, M.D., Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, Member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, &c. &c. :— NERVOUS EXHAUSTION, 2s, 6cl., by post 2s. lOd. A TREATISE ON DISEASES OF THE RECTUM, 2s. 6d., by post, 2s. lOd. SKIN DISEASES AND THEIR REMEDIES, 2s. 6d., by post 2s, lOd. DISEASES OF THE SKIN, Is., by post Is. 2d. JJERVOUS EXHAUSTION, its Cause and Cure, with an Essay on Spsrmatrophy and Semenology, with numerous photographic Sllustrations from life, and detailed cases, containing those distressing symptoms attendant upon acquired enervation, the bane of after years, most iUocessfuUy treated by the Author's newly-discovered remedies. A TREATISE on DISEASES of the RECTUM, embracing especially Piles. Fistula, and Stricture, and all other morbid aflfeotious to which the Lower Bowel is subject, from luxurious and sedentary habits of life, pregnancy, constipation and disease of the liver, &c., giving the result of Improved treatment, successfully adopted in an extensive practice, iTithout recourse to the knife, ligature, or cauterization, but by the mildest and most simple means, yet eflScacious and permanent. QKIN DISEASES and their REMEDIES, fully explaining the treatment pursued at the Hospital St. Louis, Paris, for those namerous diseases so prevalent in a high state of civilization, too oftea hereditary, though mostly caused by contact and inexperience. DISEASES of the SKIN, a Compendium of the foregoing, based on practical experience, invaluable to the public in general. To be had from the Author, 29 Geouge Street, Hanover Square, W.I '2^\