Figures 41 to 43. Fig. 41. Sketch of an arrangement similar in principle to that shown in Fig. 38, but an a larger scale. In this as in the other, the fire may be used either closed or open at pleasure, no rapid draught to the chimney is permitted, hot metal is dispensed with as much as possible, and glazed tiles are substituted for the purpose of confining the heat and presenting a clean, cheerful, and temperately warm surface in the apartment. On the hot- plate surface various openings are shown, at which cooking utensils protected by double covers on Count Rumforcbs system can be introduced to be heated on the economical plan of actual immersion in the hot air which passes from the fire. The open- ings are covered up when not in use. a, fire door. b, ash door with regulator. c, c, ovens for roasting or baking, the doors of which are covered with glazed tiles to confine the heat. d, d, hot closets for warming plates, &c., heated by the hot air which passes over them. The doors covered with tiles to confine the heat. e, e, e, Sfc., covers on the hot-plate over the apertures at which vessels are inserted. fj fi ft 4c-j surfaces of glazed tile. Fig. 42. A similar system to that shown in Fig. 41, but with two ovens for roasting or baking, one placed above the other, and both heated by a separate fire to that which heats the vessels in the hot-plate and which heats the boiler. As the fire to the ovens would only be lighted when the ovens were actually required to be used, it is believed that considerable economy would be effected by the use of a smaller fire for the boiling of water and for the other facilities of cooking. Fig. 43. An arrangement in which the principle of division for the purpose of economy is carried still further. The fire in the centre is supposed to be of little more than sufficient power to cook vessels above and to heat the hot closets. The surplus heat from it should pass round the ovens in the left division, and round the boiler in the right hand division. The ovens would then require a small and very economical fire to be made underneath them when actually required for use, and the boiler would require the assistance of a small and very economical fire when the water was required to be boiling hot. On all other occa- sions the one fire would be sufficient.