Figures 34 to 40. Fig. 34. Brick bottom pierced with holes and enclosed by a rim of iron, to be used instead of the ordinary metal grate. Fig. 35. Ventilating tube to be fixed over the fire-place of a kitchener. Fig. 36. Sketch showing the external appearance of the fire-place of a kitchener, to which the principle of supplying coal from below is pro- vided. a, wheel in which a poker is inserted for the purpose of turning the wheel whenever it is desired to raise coal into the fire. Fig. 37. Section showing how the body of coal is raised as it burns away from above. b, lifting bottom. c, lifting rack. <7, wheel. e, poker. f, ash-pit. Fig. 38. Sketch of a superior and economical arrangement for cooking, in which a fire may be used either closed or open at pleasure, no rapid draught to the chimney is permitted, hot metal is dispensed with as much as possible, and glazed tiles are substituted for the purpose of confining the heat, and presenting a clean, cheerful, and temperately warm surface in the apart- ment. On the hot-plate surface various openings are shown, at which cooking utensils, protected by double covers on Count Rumford’s system, can be introduced to be heated on the econo- mical plan of actual immersion in the hot air which passes from the fire. The openings are covered up when not in use. a, fire door. b, door by which any ash is removed, and a supply of air to the fire is regulated. c, oven, the door and outer surface of which is covered with glazed tile to confine the heat. cl, d, d, fyc., covers to apertures at which cooking vessels can be inserted to be immersed in the hot air which passes from the fire. e, e, e, fyc., surfaces of glazed tile. Fig. 39. Section showing how the hot air passes from the fire to the cooking vessels and the oven. Fig. 40. Horizontal section showing the position of the boiler, a, behind the fire. b, b, b, 8fc., flues for the passage of hot air from the fire, which enable heat to be communicated to the whole exposed surface of the vessels inserted. c, a descending flue by which the hot air on the right-hand side is made to pass under the boiler before its escape.