THE ORGANS 0¥ 696 P EESPIRATION. The pleura rises high in the neck of long-necked people, and, on the contrary, is low. in the short- necked, and especially in " bull-necked" subjects. The parietal pleura, owing to the presence of con- nective tissue already mentioned, is but slightly afi'ected by injuries of the ribs. Even after fracture of these bones the pleura often escapes. According to Richet, traumatic emphysema is not apt to occur except when adhesions exist between the lung and the pleura covering the broken rib.^ Subpectoral abscess, axillary abscess, or tumor of the thoracic wall may involve the pleura through extension of the morbid process to the pleura by means of the subserous connective tissue. The pleura, es]iecially at the region of the thoracic aorta, the subclavian artery, and the oesophagus, will, by becoming greatly thickened in aneurismal and cancerous conditions, resist the invasion of diseased action ; but when, by long-continued pressure, it sud- denly yields, the fatal issue may be determined by copious hemorrhages into the pleural cavities, or by exciting acute inflammation therein of high grade. In some cases of pleuritic efi'usion it is believed, by C. Ellis,^ that the efi'usion instead of first collect- ing in the lowest part of the pleural sac, may, if small in quantity, occupy a conical portion of the pleural cavity in the sub-axillary region, under which conditions both normal resonance and the respiratory murmur may be wanting. In a certain number of cases where the efi'usion is quite large, if an accurate line be drawn, the flatness will be found to describe a curve gradually approaching the spine toward the base of the neck, leaving a space from one to three or more inches in breadth between the spine and the line of flatness. This is known as the curve of Da- moiseau, who described it in the Revue M^dicale in 1843. Although a feature of pathological rather than of anatomical interest, its evident relation to some structural peculiarity in the juxtaposition of pleura and thoracic wall warrants its introduction at this place. Reference may be made, also, in connection with this subject, to some experiments performed by ' Aiiat. Med.-Chirurg., 557. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., 1874, xc. 15. G. M. Garland' in relation to the presence of fluid in the pleural cavities of the dog. The pleura extends in the mammillary line to the sixth or the seventh cartilage. In the axillary line it extends to the lower border of the ninth rib on the right side, and to the tenth rib on the left. Luschka estimates that the pleura does not pass downward to a point beyond the tenth rib. Accord- ing to Holl,^ however, it may reach the region of the twelfth rib. The pleura may be said to be longer than the lung by one inch. Hence it is possible for a perforating wound of the thoracic parietes to occur without injury to the lung. THE MEDIASTINUM. The interval between the right and left pleural sacs is called the mediastinum. It is arbitrarily divided into three compartments, a posterior, middle, and anterior, usually spoken of separately as the pos- terior, the middle, and the anterior mediastinum. For the relations of the structures contained in the medi- astinum, the student is referred to the description of the several parts. The posterior mediastinum is of an inverted pyrami- dal figure, the base lying at the superior thoracic aperture, and the apex at the Diaphragm. It is limited in front by the pericardium and the roots of the lungs, and is indented along its posterior margin by the for- ward projections of the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae. posterior mediastinum contains the oesophagus, the descending thoracic aorta, and a portion of the descending; arch with the orig;ins of the left common the carotid and subclavian arteries, the azygos vein, pneumogastric nerves, the thoracic duct, and the thoracic lymphatic glands and sympathetic ganglia. The connective tissue which unites these struc- tures extends along the vertebral column upward to the prevertebral region of the neck, guided chiefly by the oesophagus, and downward along the sides of the aorta to the retroperitoneal space of the abdomen. From this peculiarity the pus of a cervical abscess can communicate with the posterior mediastinum, as the 1 Ibid., xci. 269. 2 Archiv fiir klin. Chirurgie, xxv. 1880. EXPLANATION OF PLATE CV. Fig. 1. The relations of tlie parts within the interior of tlie thorax, seen from the left—tlie lung being removed. Fig. 2. The same, seen from the riglit.