79 EXAMINATIONS. ON MAKING POST- MO ET EM =.00^00.= 111 this manner the scalp is divided from ear to ear (tlie hair being but little injured), and forms two flaps which can be easily retracted to expose the skull. The skull should now be sawed in such manner as to make a circular section round the head, a little above the ear. To avoid the inconvenience of using the saw at the occiput, upon which point the weight of the skull rests, some physicians confine the circular incision to the frontal and temporal regions, and join its ends by an oblique rim extending upward and backward between the occipital protuberance and the lambdoidal suture. There can be no objection to the latter section where removal of the brain is alone intended. It has, indeed, the advantage of holding the skullcap in better position than when the circular incision is employed. The incision first named is to be preferred when the brain is to be studied in situ, and the skull preserved. Neither should there be any difficulty in readjusting the round-based skull- cap. Hard wooden pegs, or, what is perhaps better, iron brads, can be driven in the diploe of the occipital and lateral parts of the frontal bone, and the free projecting ends sharpened to a point. The skullcap can be fitted thereto by ])lacing the ends of the pegs or brads in the diploe, and firmly forcing the skull- cap downward. Dr. Chas. K. Mills^ recommends, in making the section which will expose the brain- case, that the Temporal muscle-fibres be left on the skull-cap, as a few stitches through the di- vided ends of the muscle assist materially in hold- ing the skull-cap in position. The saw need not pass entirely through the skull. A few strokes of the hammer on the chisel of the post-mortem set will suffice to sever the inner brittle plate. It is, perhaps, unnecessary to point out the fact that the skull is thinner at the temporal region than else- Avhere, and is least thin at the occiput. The incau- tious operator may injure the brain at the former point long before he has reached the inner plate at the latter. The dura mater may be cut through along the line of the section made by the saw, and thus, should it be adherent to the skullcap, may be removed therewith, the scissors being used to divide the points of union with the great longitudinal falx. It has been advised, especially in the autopsies of children, to saw through both bone and brain to- gether, in cases where the study of the form of the brain is a matter of little importance. After the skullcap and dura mater have been removed, and the pia mater exposed, the condition of the bloodvessels ' Pliila. Med. Times, 1S80, vol. x. 365. should be studied with care, and both sides of the pia mater examined. The base should not be disturbed until the condition of the superficies, corpus callosum, and the quantity of fluid in the ventricles have been ascertained. Eemoval of the brain under the most favorable circumstances lacerates the already softened structures. Even in the normal brain, the falling outward of the cerebral hemispheres (now no longer supported by the sides of the skull and falx) will sever the middle commissure of the third ventricle. The brain, while yet in position, will permit the lateral ventricles being opened by a vertical section made a half inch to the outer side of the great longitudinal fissure downward to the lateral ventricle, which being thus opened, a syringe furnished with a long nozzle may be used to withdraw the fluid. In suspected fracture of the cranium, sjiecial care must be taken to avoid the blows of the mallet in any way complicating the lesion. The same writer ad- vises that the saw should never pass further than fairly into the diploe, and whenever practicable the so-called inner plate be left intact. Instead of the mallet and chisel, he recommends that the chisel alone be used. " A stout piece of steel is loosely fitted by an aperture to the chisel edge, and, gravitat- ing by its weight, is arrested at the shoulder of the instrument, thus forming a cross where the two por- tions are adjusted. By sawing deeply over the frontal sinus, the sharp edge of the chisel is easily inserted; and by simply turning the chisel round, the internal plate at once gives way with a slight crack, and the skullcap is felt to be detached." The interior of the calvarium should be carefully examined for evidence of fracture. In removing the brain the anterior portion of the cerebrum should be gently raised and all the cranial nerves be severed at their points of exit through the floor of the brain-case. The tentorium is next slit from side to side, and the medulla oblongata severed from the spinal cord by making an oblique cut with a long knife as far down in the vertebral canal as is possible. The pituitary body, by a tour de force^ cau be removed with the brain, the pedicle remaining intact. Ordinarily, however, this body is left in the pituitary fossa. The brain when removed should be placed base upward in a shallow vessel with curved sides, such as a tin wash-basin, to avoid the falling outward of the hemispheres. Pei'haps the best plan is to invert the brain in the skullcap, and place the latter top downward in a towel folded loosely in the basin_ Prof. Burt G. Wilder recommends dividing the brain longitudinally in the median line, and placing the