630 OKGANS OF SENSE. ■ ooo^ooo It has been sliown by Allan Burns that a sacculated condition of the lobe, originating behind the lower jaw, may spread downward and laterally upon the neck.' Aneurismal conditions of the vessels of the gland may produce symptoms of suffocation, and give rise to pulsating tumors in the region of the tonsil. The superficial portion is rarely the seat of cancer. The disease almost invariably begins in the deep por- tion of the gland, and early involves the facial nerve by pressure. Cystic tumors, on the other hand, may be found within the superficial portion only. Fergusson has for- mulated a good rule on the subject of parotid tumor: If the skin can be freely lifted from over the tumor, it is probable that the tumor may be removed, whether cystic or otherwise, without necessitating the removal of the entire gland; but the skin, if tense, infil- trated, and fixed, indicates that the entire gland is involved. Tumors may arise within that portion of the gland overlying the Masseter muscle; these may be due to engorgement of the socia parotidis or be the result of occlusion of one of the accessory ducts. They are at first freely movable, painless, and excite at times an increased flow of saliva. It is important to dis- criminate between these swellings, enlargements of the lymphatic glands of this region, and incipient enchondromata. The tumors last named are elastic, and resemble small cysts, for which they have often been mistaken. Inflammatory obstruction of the parotid duct will cause intumescence of the gland, yielding unusual symptoms. Since the duct of Steno cannot be traced deep within the body of the gland, the swelling will be confined to the superficial portion. The mass differs from other swellings of the region by the presence of a ridge, seen also within the mouth, placed between the Masseter muscle and the cheek. There is sometimes little or no pain, at others a sense of soreness only. This rare condition was first accurately described by Allan Burns (loc. cit.). A fatal case of abscess of the parotid gland involv- ing the temporo-facial vein has been recorded by Murchison.^ THE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. The Submaxillary Salivary Gland (fig. 6, Plate XCIX.) is about a third smaller than the jmrotid, and of a subrounded shape. It lies entirely within the 1 Surg. Anatomy of the Neck, Edinburgh, 1623, 303. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1859, x. 99. neck, between tlie Digastric muscle below and the lower jaw above. In part it is received within a depression on the lower jaw, beneath the oblique line, and in part rests upon the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. The lobules of the gland are somewhat more pronounced than those of the parotid, and are less cornpactly arranged. The gland tissue accompanies the duct (here called the duct of Wharton) as it passes backward to the border of the Mylo-Hyoid muscle, and winds round it. The duct as it lies upon the upper surface of the muscle has the sublingual gland above it, and terminates in the mouth near its fellow by a prominent projection at the side of the lingual fraanum. Bloodvessels and Nerves.—The submaxillary gland is supplied by branches of the facial and lingual arte- ries, and by nerves from tlie submaxillary ganglion. Variations.—The gland may partially surround the lateral border of the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. Separate lobules may be attached severally to tlie duct of Wharton beyond the limit of tlie main gland. For remarks see Alveo-Lingual Groove. THE SUBLINGUAL GLAND. The Sublingual Gland is a convenient name for a group of glands lying beneath the mucous mem- brane of the floor of the mouth, and constituting the ridge which extends from the outer side of the sublin- gual caruncle, about an inch and a half, to the first molar tooth. The separate glands are from six to eight in number, and their several ducts are known as the ducts of Rivinus. Two or three of the smaller glands may unite to form a single duct. The most note- worthy of these ducts is one running toward the sub- lingual caruncle, and sometimes tributary to the duct of Wharton, called the duct of Bartholin. The glands lie above the Mylo-Hyoid muscle, and the duct of Wharton rests upon the Genio-Glossus muscle. Bloodvessels and Nerves.-—The arterial supply of the gland is derived from the submental and sub- lingual arteries. The nerves are derived from the submaxillary ganglion. THE TEETH. The Teeth (figs. 1, 2, 3, 5, Plate XCIX.) are special structures developed from the mucous membrane of the mouth, but lodged in the jaws, and designed to cut, to tear, and to grind the food. They are of four kinds—^named in order from the front to the back of the jaws—the incisors, the canines, the bicus- pids, and the molars; and of two sets, the permanent.