678 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. ooO^OCx: the adjacent loose folds extending from them to the pelvis; while, on the other hand, the firmer union existing between the peritoneum and the anterior abdominal wall renders it difficult under certain con- ditions to distinguish tlie membrane from the firm sub-peritoneal fibrous layers. It is recommended by W. Atlee, of Philadelphia, under such circumstances to insert the hand in the wound, and pass it upward to the region of the umbilicus. If the membrane in question be peritoneum, it will of course be free at the position of the umbilical cicatrix, while, if it be a part of the abdominal wall, it will be attached there. The Retro-Peritoneal Space. The retro-peritoneal space (siqjra) is a name frequently given to the region between the peritoneal cavity and the vertebral col- umn. An analogous region is found in the posterior mediastinum. It is occupied by the kidneys, supra- renal capsules, pancreas, some of the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve-trunk, lymphatic glands, abdomi- nal aorta, inferior vena cava, thoracic duct, and, in the foetus, by the testis or the OY&vy. Partially exposed within it are the descending and transverse portionsof the duodenum, and theascending and descending colon. The cajcum is also commonly uncovered along its posterior border toward the space; but this portion of the canal may be com- pletely covered with peritoneum. Remarks.—The retro-peritoneal space is thus a great sac or hiatus within which many diseased pro- cesses originate and rapidly spread. The lymphatic glands may here assume enormous proportions, aneu- rism in the abdominal aorta may occur, and when blood escapes into the space either from bursting of an aneurism or from purpura, it meets with no resistance until the boundaries of the space are reached. (See p. 305.) The escape of blood, such as that from an aneurism, into the sub-perUoneal connective tissue of the abdo- men, may compress the cardiac extremity of the stom- ach and induce dysphagia. If the rupture occurs lower down, it may involve the space between the layers of the great omentum, that between the trans- verse colon and the spine, and that in front of the pancreas and round the third part of the duodenum. The last structure may become in consequence com- pressed and obstructed.1 According to J. Hilton,^ the swelling over a rup- ' .J. S. Bristowe, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1859, x. 88; al.so 1860, 89. 2 (iuy's Hospital Reports, 1867, 21. tured kidney cannot reach beyond the middle line of the vertebral column. The serous membrane is attached to the vessels in front of the spine, and limits the spread of the extravasation. In rupture of the abdominal aorta, however, beneath the perito- neum, the blood usually spreads equally on both sides of the spine.' The retro-peritoneal space will also afford o])por- tunity for the pus from an empyema to pass down- ward along the posterior wall of the abdomen, and for the pus of a psoas abscess to ascend to enter the thorax. The retro-peritoneal space is of great interest to the physician. Morbid processes excited within it are not limited by any well-defined boundary. Blood effused within it can traverse its entire length and even pass upward into the posterior mediastinum, or escape between the layers of the great omentum, between the transverse colon and the spine, in front of the pancreas, or around the transverse portion of the duodenum, which may thus be compressed. Col- lections of pus in this locality may be either diffused or circumscribed. Such collections may occur at any portion of the space, and may often accompany organic disease. They may be due to transmitted irrita- tion from the bowel or from muscular strain. The two latter causes are more frequently operative along the ascending and the descending colon. An abscess has been detected external to the sigmoid flexure. The most frequent form of such collections is that which occurs behind the ascending colon, particularly at or near the caecum. Iliac abscess or suppurative perityphlitis excites profound disturbance in the loose texture of the retro-peritoneal space. The pus wiiich successively forms in it as the tissue breaks down may rupture the sheath of the Psoas muscle, perforate the Diaphragm, or reach the thorax through the aortic opening. It may also perforate the great vessels lying within the space, particularly the inter- nal iliac artery and vein. The omentum may be adherent to the anterior wall of the rectum, where by an unusual coincidence it has aided in closing a perforating ulcer into the peritoneal cavity.^—The lace-like interstices in the omentum have been known to receive knuckles of ' For literature of involvement of the retro-peritoneal space, see J. Chiene, Journ Anat. and Phys., ii. 218; P. H. Pye-Smith, Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1871, 131 ; Waldeyer, Virchow's Archiv, Ix. ; also in Glasgow Medical .Journal, 1874, 543 ; J. P. Irwine, Trans. Path. Soc. London, xxix. 1878, 85. 2 T. B. Curling, Diseases of tlie Testicle, p. 111.