OEGANS OF SENSE. 588 the boundaries of the sulcus, and is held in position elsewhere by an extension of the orbital periosteum, as well as by a slip prolonged inward from the inter- nal palpebral ligament, which is strengthened by Horner's muscle. The main portion of the palpebral ligament crosses it in front, where, according to Luschka, some of the oblique facial fibres of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum arise. Fig. 126. The conjunctival space, showing position of lachrymal gland, canaliculi, and lachrymal sac. 1, lachrymal gland ; 2, lachrymal sac ; * inferior canaliculus. The Lachrymo - nasal Duct extends from the lachrymal sac to the nose. It measures seven lines in length, being slightly narrower in the middle than elsewhere. Circular at its beginning, it is slightly compressed laterally below. Being directed down- ward and slightly outward, it terminates at the roof of the inferior meatus. It is throughout adherent to the bony walls of the ductus ad nasum [q. v.), and is lined with a ciliated form of epithelium. Several folds of a valve-like character have been described in connection with the lachrymal appara- tus; one is situated just within each lachrymal punc- tura ; one at the orifice of the canaliculi in the lach- rymal sac; others within the lachrymal nasal duct, and, finally, one at its nasal outlet. Eemarks.—The mechanism of the flow of tears appears to be as follows: The act of winking forces the tears into the palpebral chamber. The tears suffuse the conjunctiva, and afterwards collect be- tween the margins of the eyelids and the eyeball, where, as a glistening layer, thej^ can always be seen before they fall. The puncta collect this fluid and conduct it by capillary attraction into the canaliculi, and thence into the lachrj'mal sac; while from that point it descends by gravitation along the lachrymo- nasal duct into the nose. This process, apparently so simple, is complicated by the fact that the abun- dant muscular tissue about the canaliculi contracts their lumen and prevents, except at the moment of the closure of the eyelids, the relaxation sufiicient to permit the outflow of tears. THE CAPSULE OF TENON. The Capsule of Tenon (ocular fascia, orbito-ocular aponeuros's, albugineal membrane, tunica vaginalis bulbi) is the name given to the fascia between the walls of the orbit and the eyeball. Its outer surface is distinguished by a number of trabecular bands, which either end in the lobules of periocular fat, or secure attachment to the walls of the orbit. The inner surface is smooth. The fascia is continuous poste- riorly with the dura mater, through the sphenoidal fissure and the opt'c foramen, and anteriorly it is lost upon the subconjunctival connective tissue. The inner aspect of the capsule is lined with epithelial cells, and incloses a lymph-space. The posterior half is much stouter than the anterior half, and the cap- sule has been compared to a socket, within which the eyeball moves. The anterior half is thin and loosely connected with the eyeball. Posteriorly, the capsule is perforated by the optic nerve and the ciliary nerves and vessels, and anteriorly, by the periocular muscles. The relation of the fascia to these muscles and adja- cent parts is as follows: The external (lateral) por- tion of the fascia supports the lachrymal gland, and sends off' a trabecular band of attachment to the outer wall of the orbit at the malo-frontal suture. The Superior and External Eecti muscles give oft' bands similar to those of the orbital wall posteriorly. The internal (median portion) receives trabecular support from the wall of the orbit posteriorly, near the origins of the Internal Pectus and the Inferior Pectus muscles, and anteriorly at the region of the trochlear process, not only near the insertion of the Superior Oblique, but near that of the Levator Palpebne and Superior EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCIII. Fig. L View of tlie tongue, with attachments to tlie epi- Fig. 3. A semi-diagrammatic view of the sinu.ses of the dura glottis, as seen from above. mater, showing the manner by which venous blood Fig. 2. A view of the cartilages of (he external nose. enters the sinus system from within the nasal chamber :it the foramen ciccum. 1