THE GENITO-UEINAEY ORGANS. 700 single Malpighian pyramid. They differ from the Malpig- liian pyramids by having their bases within and by being confined largely to the cortex. The central tubules in the former are parallel, while those in the pyramids of Malpighi are acutely convergent. The epithelium in the straight tubes is columnar; in the other portions of the tubules the character of the cells is often obscured by their granular contents—the cells varying in shape from tiie scales lining the capsule to the low-colum- nar and cuboidal forms of the convoluted tubes, in certain parts of which a striation of the peripheral parts of the cells is described. The Bloodvessels As already mentioned, the arteries of the kidney enter at the hilum, subdivide in the sinus, and the resultant twigs pass between the pyramids of Malpighi to their bases. They here form an imperfect anastomosis termed the interlobular arch, from which small arteries the interlobular arteries ascend to the cortex between the pyra- mids of Ferrein. From these intei'lobular arteries arise lateral stems, each bearing rounded berry-like knots of cap- illaries covered by a membranous envelope (the Malpighian corpuscles). Each of these presents a diameter ranging from the y-o oth to the ^y^th of an inch. The artery ent&ring the corpuscle is called the afferent vessel, and the vein leaving it the efferent or emulgent vessel. The latter is somewhat smaller than the former, and soon breaks up into a network of veins which ramify among the uriniferous tubules, be- coming elongated among the straight tubes, and forming at the bases of the pyramids an anastomosis termed the i7iter- lohar vei7is. From these arise the veins of exit wliich pass from the gland to the veins of tlie sinus. Upon the cortex some of the smaller venules terminate in stellate veins, which in some degenerative conditions form conspicuous objects on tlie surface of tlie kidney. Each vein is composed of from five to six brandies whose extremities are lost in the inter- tubal network. Upon the papillae a delicate venous network is seen having an arrangement somewhat different from that between the tubes, with which, however, it is continuous. It will be seen that the network lying between the emul- gent veins of the Malpighian tufts and the renal vein is comparable to the hepatic network intervening between the portal and hepatic veins, and has sometimes received the name of the portal network of the kidney. Ludwig and Zawarykin* have shown that the supply of the kidney is not in all respects dependent upon the renal artery, since a partial injection of the kidney of a dog was effected after tying the renal artery. The lymphatics of the kidney are of two sets, a superficial and a deep, which freely anastomose. The connective-tissue stroma is poorly developed in the adult kidney. It extends between the tubules and the bloodvessels, and is more marked in the ' Wiener Acad. Sitzungsberioht, xlviii. 1864. immediate vicinity of the Malpighian corpuscle than elsewhere in the cortex; but on the whole the connective tissue reaches the highest development in the papillary portion of the medulla. Its scanty presence may serve to explain the fragility of the organ. Variations The kidney may vary in position from the one assigned as normal. The organ may be occasionally movable from one of two causes, either from the organ being enveloped in peritoneum when a true meso-nephron exists, or from the absorption of fat from about the kidney. The kidney may be divided transversely, each division possessing a separate ureter. There may be more tlian two kidneys on each side, imperfectly joined. Double ureters may exist with an otherwise normal kidney.—The union of the two kidneys is ordinarily accomplished by an isthmus of crescentic outline, joining the lower borders, the con- cavity being directed upward. Such malformations are known as fused or horse-shoe kidneys. According to R. P. Harris,^ this term has also been given to a single kidney of an unusually curved form. In a specimen of fused kid- ney exhibited before the Pathological Society of Piiila- delphia- by Tiios. G. Morton, the greater part of the mass was situated upon the left side of the vertebral column, the concave edge presented downward, and the hilum was situated upon the lateral border. After an elaborate study of tiie recorded cases of mis- placed and movable kidney, A. E. Dui'ham' has arrived at the following conclusions: " Fixed misplacement of the kidneys is usually congenital, as is indicated, among other considerations, by the corresponding irregularities presented by the renal bloodvessels. The left kidney is more liable to fixed displacement than the right; and its misplacement is usually associated witli malposition of tlie colon. The right kidney is more frequently movable than the left. Women are more liable to the affection than are men." The kidney may be placed lower than is normal, being found as far down as the crest of the ilium, or even within the cavity of the true pelvis. Congenital misplacements of the kidney are commonly met with. The position of the renal vessels should be carefully observed in dissection of these subjects. Hyrtl affirms that, if the vessels have their noimal relations to the great trunks, the malposition is acquired. If, however, they be shown to be abnormal, the malposition is congenital. A congenital pelvic kidney may receive its blood from the aorta and the common iliac artery. The kidney may be absent on one side. The remaining organ is then termed single or solitary kidney. Drs. Wil- lard, Packard, and Reed* found that out of twenty-one cases, references to which are given, the left kidney was absent in ' Proc. of the Path. Soo. of Phil., 1860, 81. 2 Loc. cit., p. 77'; 3 Guy's Hospital Rep., 1860,.iv. 420. Proceedings Pathological Society of Philadelphia, 1870, 172.