THE SUPEEFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ABDOMEN. 737 =00^000 vitating and involving the peritoneal cavity by adven- titious adhesions, which extend from tlie pylorus to the anterior wall of the abdomen. In a second case the pus was due to disease in the pleural sac, directly through the Diaphragm. Collections of pus may form about a ruptured spleen, and involve the retro-peritoneal space. Such abscesses may invade the tissues both in front and behind the oesophagus, and press the kidney and supra-renal capsule downward and inward. In another instance of abscess in the left hypochondrium and epigastric region, Fagge determined that the pus had found its way into the transverse colon. In yet another, the stomach was adherent by its cardiac end to the spleen, the latter organ being fixed in its turn to the Dia- phragm and the kidney. The pus had entered the capsule of the spleen, and partially involved the kidney.—For involvement of the upper belt by wan- dering gall stones, see p. 672. The Middle Belt includes the umbilical, the ridit lumbar and the left lumbar regions. The Umbilical Region.—The umbilical region is bounded above by the lower epigastric plane, and below by a horizontal plane passing through the ante- rior superior spinous processes of the innominate bones. This plane, if produced backward, will cut the centre of the second portion of the sacrum on the anterior surface of the bone, and emerge poste- riorly between the second and third sacral spines. The umbilicus lies on a horizontal line; this line is near the level of the highest point of the crest of the ilium, and it answers to the anterior edge of a plane the posterior edge of which bisects the verte- bral column at about the third dorsal vertebra. The umbilical region is chiefly occupied by a por- tion of the transverse colon, the omentum, and the small intestines; and it contains, likewise, the mesen- tery and its glands, the abdominal aorta, and the inferior vena cava. T. W. Kingi describes a case of a child, fourteen months old, in whom a feculent umbilical discharge appeared, which, in the judgment of the reporter, came from a diverticulum of the intestinal tract. The opening closed after a treatment of six weeks. A second, but fatal case, is narrated in the same com- munication. Intramural abscess of the abdomen, when not due to perityphUtis, is most commonly situated in the umbilical region. Such an abscess has been occasionally detected in children and adolescents. Instances are on record of collections thus origi- nating, dissecting between the peritoneum and the muscular layer over the greater part of the anterior abdominal wall.^ The Right Lumbar Region.—The right lumbar re- gion is subdivided into the lumbar region proper, and the iliac fossae. It contains the upper part of the CEecum, the ascending colon, the lower and middle portion of the right kidney, the ureter, and a portion of the Quadratus Lumborum and of the Psoas Muscle. The Left Lumbar Region.—The left lumbar region is subdivided, as is the right, and is occupied by the descending colon, and chiefly in the iliac fossa, by the sigmoid flexure, part of the left kidney, and the ureter. The small intestines likewise occupy the lumbar regions on either side, and cover the ascending and descending portions of the colon. The Lower Belt.—The lower belt includes the hypo- gastric, and the riefht ino-uinal and the left inguinal region. The lower belt (hypogastric portion) is the smallest of the three. It is bounded above by the lower umbilical plane, and below by the upper margin of the pubis in the centre, and Poupart's ligament on either side; the latter forms two divergent lines extending from the spinous processes of the pubis upward and outward to the anterior superior spinous processes of the innominate bone. This region, according to Bright, may be said to be extended into the hollow of the true pelvis occupy- ing its whole cavity. The cavity of the abdomen may be said to terminate at a line a little above Poupart's ligament, where the peritoneum becomes reflected from the fascia trans- versalis in front, on to the fascia iliaoa behind, thus rendering the inguinal regions of the belly smaller from above to below than its external boundaries would appear to indicate. The Hypogastric Region.—The hypogastric region (pubic region) contains the urinary bladder with por- tions of the ureters, the first portion of the rectum, and sometimes a projecting convolution of the sig- moid flexure of the colon, together with some por- tions of the small intestines, more particularly the ' Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1S43, 4G7 (figs.). 94 ' See J. Mauley, Loiidou Med. Gaz., n. s. xviii., 1851, 139, 185.