GENITO 765 URINARY APPARATUS. THE REGION OF THE A few insignificant structures in adult life are iden- tified with portions of the Wolffian body. In the male the organ of Girald^s, the hy<Iatid of Morgagni, and the vas aberrans have this significance, and, in the female, portions of tubuli persist, constituting the parovarium, which lies in the broad ligament near the uterus, and'the so called grains of Folin, which lie near the uterus. In the sow, some of the ruminant and quadruma- nous types, the lower portion of the organ, consti- tuting the duct of Gtertner, also persists. This rudi- ment is generally described as absent in the human female, but C. Rieder' has detected its presence as often as in one out of every three dissections. In one-fifth of these instances it is found as a small tube, extending either parallel to the upper portion of the vagina, or embraced in the muscle-tibres of the cervix uteri, and is lined with cylindrical epithelium. The author thinks it probable that some forms of vaginal cyst take their origin in this rudiment. In the course of development of the ovary and the testis aud the passages with which they are in associ- ation, the intermediate mass yields the following structures. In the development of tlie testis the parenchyma arises from the stratum beneath the germ epithelium, and exhibits as early as the seventh or eighth week the characteristic tubuli, which are lined with cells (seminal cells) held to be homologous with the germ- epithelium of the ovary. The proper Wolffian duct constitutes the vas deferens and the ejaculatory duct. The vesicula seminalis is formed as an outgrowth from the lower part of the duct. From a specimen of abnormal development described by Turner, in which the globus major was alone absent in the excretory apjiaratu.s, it was inferred that this portion of the duct has a distinct development, and probably arises from a se]iarate portion of the intermediate mass which, according to Cleland and Banks, remains distinct from the Wolffian body, and evolves the vasa effcrentia, the arcus vasculosa, and the globus major. The ovary is a differentiation of the median portion of the Wolffian body. It consists of two portions, a stroma and an investing epithelium. The epithe- lium receives the special name of the germ-epillieliuvi of Waldcycr. The ova, which appear at an early period of development, arise from the germ-epithelium, but as they become differentiated are depressed beneath the germ-layer and received in special sacs, ' Viicliow's Archiv, 1SS4, xcvi., 100 (fig.). (ovi-sacs. Graafian follicles), which arise within the ovarian stroma. The ovary, unlike the testis, is not continuous with its duct; but lies in the peritoneal chambers and in the neighborhood of the initial end of the Fallopian tubes, the fimbriated extremity of which is homologous again with the hydatid of Mor- gagni. The Fallopian tubes, the uterus, and the vagina constitute special differentiated chambers or sacculations along the course of a single tube which is held to be homologous with the Miilleriaa duct which lies adjacent, and to the median side of the Wolffian body. In both sexes the Miillerian ducts and the Wolffian duet are inclosed at their lower portion in a common investing mass which has received the name of the genital cord (uro-genital cord). The ducts of Miiller coalesce in a portion of their course, but subse- quently become distinct. In the female this coalesced portion represents the body of the uterus and the vagina. In the male the Miillerian ducts disappear excepting the vestigial structures which persist in the hydatid of Moryagni, and in the terminal portion of the coalesced ducts where they join the urethra is the prostate gland, which has received the name of the ulerus masculinus (pouch of Weber, vesicula pro- statica). Two interesting cases of union of the ureter and vesicular seminales are reported by C. E. E. Hoft"- mann.' The article contains literature of the entire subject of uretral malformation. The Urinary Bladder and Urachus. The bladder is a pouch developed from the allantois as it projects from the trunk. It is, therefore, of necessity con- tinuous with the stem of the allantois upward and through the navel at the tune of the formation of the placenta. Much later, after the elements of the allantois are no longer recognized in the umbilical cord, the connection between the urinary bladder and the navel persists in the form of an open tract termed the urachus (see Bladder, p. 70-1). The bladder opens in both males and females by the urethra into the uro-genital sinus. The urachus closes after birth^ but the bladder retains the elongated form due to the origin of the bladder during childhood. In eclropliy of the urinary bladder the abdominal wall is fissured from the umbilicus to the pubis. The hypogastric region is much smaller than is normal, since the umbilicus is carried to a point near the ]iubis. The urachus is absent. The only portion of the bladder which has developed is the h)wer portion » Archiv d. Ileilkunde, xiii. 522, Taf. vii.