THE SEMICIR THE VESTIBULE. The Vestibule is a chamber of an irregularly oval shape, and slightly flattened from within outward. It is designed to accommodate the utricle and the sac- cule, and communicates with the semicircular canals posteriorly and the cochlea anteriorly. The vestibule measures about one-fifth of an inch in diameter. The inner wall of the vestibule is marked by a crest (crista vestibuli), which serves as the interme- diate space between the depression for the utricle (fovea hemielliptica), which lies behind the crest, and the depression of the saccule (fovea hemi- spherica), which lies in front of it. The vestibule communicates on its outer wall with the middle ear by the foramen ovale. It in addition receives the openings of semicircular canals, the fora- mina for the nerves to the membranous labyrinth, and the opening of the aquteductus vestibuli. The openinrjs of the semicircular canals embrace the three ampulla?, and the orifices of both ends of the horizontal canal, as well as the orifice of the canal re- sulting from the union of the vertical transverse and vertical longitudinal semicircular canals. The openuiys of nerves. The nerves for the mem- branous labyrinth enter the inner wall of the bony labyrinth, through minute openings which are ar- ranged as follows:— First group (macula cribrosa superior) situated at the pyramidal eminence; second group (macula cri- brosa media) situated below the centre of the fovea hemielliptica; third group (macula cribrosa inferior) situated near the junction of the inner and the poste- rior walls with the floor, and within the ampulla of the vertical longitudinal semicircular canal. To these groups may be added a fourtli (macula cribrosa quarta, Reichert), which lies near tlie anterior border of the fovea hemispherica. The Oldening for the aqueeductus vestibuli lies near the ampulla of the external semicircular canal. It conveys lymph from the subarachnoid space to the interior of the vestibule. The Aquaiductus Vestibuli. The aquaeductus vestibuli is a small canal leading backward to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the infant it is much larger than in the adult, and appears as a shallow chink. THE SEiMICIRCULAR CANALS. The Semicircular Canals are three C-shaped tubes which open into the vestibule. Each tube is slightly compressed laterally, and presents a diameter of one- twentieth of an inch. ULAR CANALS. 61i Fig. 142. a, vertical transverse; J>, horizontal; e, vertical longitudinal; d, common opening of the two vertical canals ; e, part of the vestibular cavity ; /, opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule. Each tube departs from a plane of a true arch. One of the extremities of each canal is enlarged before it enters the vestibule constituting the so-called nm'pulla. The canals are named from their respective posi- tions as follows:— The Vertical transverse. The Vertical longitudinal. The Horizontal.^ (1) The vertical transverse canal (superior, frontal) is the largest of the three. It forms a conspicuous swelling upon the anterior aspect of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone. Its anterior part forms an ampulla; its posterior joins the anterior part of the succeeding canal. (2) The vertical longitudinal canal (posterior, sagit- tal) extends parallel to the axis of the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone. It is nearly circular in form, and is the lowest in position of the three. An ampulla is developed upon its posterior extrem- ity, the anterior joining the vertical transverse canal. (3) The horizontal canal (external) is the shortest of the three. It extends obliquely from without downward. Its anterior extremity forms an ampulla, and opens near the outer wall of the vestibule. ' Respecting the synonymy of these names, it may be said that the terms "vertical" and "horizontal" indicate the relations of the canals to the plane of the base of the skull; the terms " trans- verse" and "longitudinal" to the axis of the petrous portion of tlie temporal bone; the terms "superior" and "inferior" refer to their position to the plane of the base of the skull; and the terms "anterior" and "posterior" to their position in connection with the longitudinal axis of the skull. If the axis of the audi- tory nerve were taken as a guide, it would be found that the liori- zontal semicircular canal would be transverse to this axis, and at the same time external to it.