THE LARYNX. c-OO^^Oo 679 intestines and cause obstruction.—In tlie bursting of abdominal aneurism, the cavity of the great omen- tum may be injected with blood.' A portion of the omentum may protrude in pene- trating wounds of the abdomen, an event that may follow even upon paracentesis.^ It may be a con- stituent in hernia, in which form it may be either diaphragmatic or scrotal.^ Niemann* records a case in which a fold of omentum was caught and held in a traumatic fissure of the liver. Fat is absent in the mesentery prior to the seventh or the eighth month of foetal life. This fact has been thought sufficiently exact to be of value in determin- ing the age of the embryo, and in this way has been used in forensic medicine.^ The Organs of Respiration. Under the head of the Organs of Respiration will be described—• The Larynx. The Trachea. * The Bronchi. The Lungs. The Pleura. The Mediastinal Spaces. THE LARYNX. The Larynx (Plates GUI., CIV.) is the organ of voice. It is that portion of the respiratory tract in- tervening between the pharynx and the trachea. The larynx lies opposite the fourth and fifth cervical ver- tebrie, and forms the most conspicuous feature in the regional anatomy of the neck, situated as it is between the pharynx behind, and the integument and the thyroid body in front. Above the larynx lies tlie hyoid bone. The organ is slightly movable from side to side. The larynx extends from the second to the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. The description of the larynx embraces— The Cartilages. The Ligaments. The Muscles. The Interior of the Larynx. 1 Young, N. Y. .Journ. Med., 1849, 201. 2 W. H. Van Buren, N. Y. Journ. of Med., 1849, 333. 3 J. R. Woodwortli, N. Y. Med. Journ., xix. 402; also S. S. Smith, N. Y. .Journ. of Med., 1851, 218. * Henke's Zeitsclir. fiir die Staatsarzneikunde, B. 74, 18.57. 5 Henke, ibid. vii. 1844; abstract in Am. Journ. Med. Sci., 1845, 245. The Cartilages of the Larynx. The Cartilages of the Larynx are five in number— Tlie Cricoid. The two Arytenoids. The two Cartilages of Santorini. The two Cartilages of Wrisberg. The Thyroid. The Cartilage of the Epiglottis. the cricoid cartilage. The Cricoid Cartilage is placed between the trachea below and the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages above. The thyroid embraces the cricoid cartilage ; the aryte- noids surmount it. The cricoid cartilage is thicker and stronger than the thyroid, and is extended up- ward behind, where the thyroid is deficient. It is, as the name expresses, a ring-like cartilage, the antero- posterior diameter being a little longer than the transverse. The anterior part is much smaller than the posterior. The lower border is horizontal and sinuous, while the superior gradually ascends as it passes backward. Toward the upper posterior por- tion lies a conspicuous rounded facet for articulation with the inferior horn of the thyroid cartilage. On either side of the upper border is an oval eminence directed upward and outward, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. The posterior surface is divided in the median line by a slight vertical ridge, which serves as a partial attachment for the oeso- phagus, while on either side lies a well-defined but shallow depression for the Posterior Crico-Aryte- noid muscle. The anterior surface is convex, and affords origin to the Crico-Thyroid muscles, and to part of the Inferior Constrictor. The lower border is slightly produced in front. The mucous membrane lining the cartilage is intimately adherent to the perichondrium. THE arytenoid CARTILAGES. The Arytenoid Cartilages are two in number. They are situated upon the posterior lateral portion of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage, and within the grasp of the thyroid cartilage. They are the most movable of the laryngeal cartilages, and are important factors in the mechanism of speech. Each cartilage is from five to six lines in height, three lines in width, and one in thickness. The general form of each is that of a pyramid, whose apex is curved in- ward, so that the upper inner borders approach and 'may even touch one another.