6G6 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra, the kidney is observed to lie to the median side of the liver as that organ is repre- sented in the section. (Fig. 184.) The relations of the liver are subject to manifold disturb- ances by the varying conditions of the abdominal organs and the movements of respiration. When the stomach is empty, the left edge of the liver inclines to the left side of the abdomen ; when the stomach is distended, it pushes the liver somewhat upward. When the great and small intes- tines are empty, the liver descends in the abdomen ; and when they are distended, it is pushed directly upward. In emphysema, and after tight-lacing, owing to the low position of the Diaphragm, the liver is usually low ; and in phthisis, ascites, tympanites, abdominal tumor, and in the bed-ridden, in consequence of the high position of the Diaphragm, the liver is unusually high. Hence the position of the lower edge of the liver in the abdomen is not, in itself, a guide to the size of the liver. During inspiration, or in emphysema, which may be roughly estimated as equivalent to an inspiratory displace- ment, the whole liver is lowered about one-and-a-half inch below the thoracic wall, and its convexity is flattened by the descent of the Diaphragm. An additional quantity of blood is thereby pressed into the right auricle at the very time that the lungs as well as the heart, owing to the ex- pansion of the chest, are capable of holding more blood. During expiration, on the other hand, the chest is con- tracted, and the right cavities being compressed, the blood accumulates in the liver and the veins of the neck. In ex- piration the thin edge of the liver usually appears for about a finger's width just below the xiphoid cartilage, and above the stomach and colon. In deep inspiration the liver de- scends toward the umbilicus, stretches across the epigastrium, between the left and right seventh and eighth costal carti- lages, and forms an elastic rounded prominence, dull on per- cussion. As a general result, the liver, during a deep in- spiration, is, according to Sibson,' compressed and shortened from above downward, widened from side to side, and lowered so that fully one-half of the organ is exposed below the ribs and cartilages, instead of being sheltered almost entirely within them.(l) As a rare lesion Delafield^ has found the transverse colon to be fixed above the liver so as to push it backward, down- ward, and to the right. It is apparent, however, that most of these motions per- tain to the right lobe. The left lobe is more fixed. A wound of the left lobe is liable to be complicated with severe hemorrhage into the abdominal cavity, owing to the prox- imity of the cccliac axis and its branches, whereas in the right lobe the hemorrhage is more apt to be external, and is not necessarily copious ; though the wounding of the gall- bladder may lead to the accumulation of enormous quantities of bile-stained fluid in the abdominal cavity. 1 Medical Anatomy. ^ Pathological Anatomy, 172 The following paragraphs have been abridged from Mur- chison. In percussion during life the upper margin of hepatic dulness may be said to be twofold, one boundary limiting the region where the organ is in close approximation to the walls of the chest, and where the dulness is absolute; the other corresponding to the extreme height of the liver, and including tlie space wliere it is overlapped by the thin layer of lung, and where the sound on percussion constitutes a transition from tlie hepatic dulness to the pulmonary reso- nance. It is the latter wliicli is usually regarded as the true upper mai'gin of the liver. There is a peculiarity in the ujiper margin of the hepatic dulness which is of some practical importance, namely, that it is not horizontal, but arched. Commencing posteriorly about the tenth or eleventh dorsal vertebra, it ascends gradually towards the axilla and the nipple, and then again descends slightly toward the median line in front. In determining tlie upper margin of hepatic dulness, we must trust to percussion alone. In ordinary cases it is suflicient to note the upper limit in what is called the riyJd mammary line, or a line descending perpendicularly from the right nipple. Here, in a healthy adult, the true upper margin of the liver is situated in the fifth intercostal space, or, in rare cases, behind the fifth rib or in the fourth inter- costal space. In this line the liver is overlapped by lung to the extent of about one inch. But in all cases of suspected hepatic disease, the upper nr argin of he[)atic dulness ought to be determined in its entire course. In the median line in I'ront, it usually corresponds to the base of the ensiform car- tilage, or rises slightly above this. To the left of the median line it is difficult or impossible to define the upper limit of hepatic dulness from the lower boundary of the heart, the two being in apposition, but a line drawn from the upper margin of hepatic dulness in the median line to the apex of the heart will usually correspond to the line of separation. In the right axillary line, or a line falling perpendicularly from the centre of the axilla, the upper margin of hepatic dulness corresponds to the seventh intercostal space, or, more rarely, to the seventh rib. In the right dorsal line, or a line falling perpendicularly from the lower angle of the scapula (when the arm is dependent), it corresponds to the ninth intercostal space, or the ninth rib. The lower margin of hepatic dulness may be determined by percussion, and often also by means of palpation. It is, however, as a rule, less easily defined than the upper mar- gin, being often obscured by a distended condition of the stomach or intestines. Hence it is always most satisfactorily examined when the stomach is empty, and after the bowels have been freely moved. In the riglit mammary line, it usually corresponds with the margin of the costal ai-ch, or is half an inch above or below this; in the right axillary line it corresponds to the tenth intercostal space; and in the right dorsal line to the twelfth rib, although here it is usually difficult to define it from the dulness of the kidney. In the epigastrium, the lower margin of the right and left lobes