THE CAPSUL Rectus. It also strengthens the internal palpebral ligament, and receives muscular fibres from the Leva- tor Palpebrte muscle. The Inferior Oblique muscle is the only one of the series which is not fixed to some part of the orbital wall by a trabecular band. The function of these bands is obscure, though they seem to check undue action of the muscles. Fig. 127. 1. The posteiior half of the capsule of Tenon. 2. The External Rectus. 3. The upper eyelid. 4. The posterior half of the sclera. The muscles themselves are united by the fascia in such wise that imperfect sheaths are seen inclosing them. The existence of such sheaths is denied by Liebreich, but most authorities agree in using the term "sheath" in the sense that the fascia is in relation with the muscles, save at their insertions, as an apprecia- ble connective-tissue envelope. The sheaths of the External and Superior Eecti muscles are continuous with the external portion of the fascia; the sheaths of the Internal Rectus and the two oblique muscles are continuous with the internal portion of the fascia ; while the sheath of the Levator Palpebrse gives off slips of attachment to both the above-named por- tions. Occasionally, dispersed muscular fibres can be seen passing from one muscle to another, along the lines of their fascial connection.' Boucheron^ describes a bursa Ivins; beneath the capsule of Tenon and each Rectus muscle, at a point just before the muscle penetrates the fascia. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the conjunctiva are derived from the palpebral and lachrymal arteries, which form a series of loops near the margin of the cornea. The conjunctival arteries are movable with the scleral conjunctiva, and in this way are readily distinguished from the subconjunctival, which are derived from scleral vessels, and are disposed in a zone of minute lines, radiating from the corneo- ' Fr. Merkel, Haiidbuch der Gesammteu Augeiiheilkuiide, 1874, i. 57. This authority is followed in the main features of tlie account of the capsule of Tenon. 2 Anuales d'Oculistique, Ixxx. 1879, 10. OF TENON. • 589 scleral junction. In clinical studies the appearances of the conjunctival and subconjunctival vessels are of importance. The conjunctival vessels become injected, and form coarse networks in conjunctivitis, giving the eye a red appearance. The subconjunc- tival vessels become full in iritis, but, by reason of the modification of the white color of the sclera, the appearance of the eye is not red but pink, and the conjunctival vessels may be but moderately involved, if at all.—Pterygium is the name given to a vascular connective-tissue growth from the conjunctiva over the cornea. Remarks.—The clinical applications of a knowl- edge of the appendages of the eye are the following: (a) to the eyelids and conjunctiva; (h) to the lach- rymal apparatus; (c) to the capsule of Tenon. (0) The Eyelids and Conjunctiva. The sagging of the lower eyelid, with the escape of tears from the con- junctival space to the cheek, is a sign of facial palsy.— The integument of the eyelid, owing to the absence of fat in the subcutaneous tissue, permits moderate degrees of inflammation to cause great swelling. Owing to the firm union between the conjunctiva and the tarsal cartilages, little disposition exists for eii'usion to take place between them. The opposite condition obtains between the conjunctiva and the sclera, which permits of the following epitome. (1) The tarsal cartilages are united to the edges of the orbit by a membrane continuous with their upper edges. The substance of the eyelid outside of the layer of the tarsal cartilages is also attached to the edge of the orbit. Extravasation from the vertex to the eyelids is guided by the above layers to the eyelids, the ocular conjunctiva remaining free. (2) No barrier exists, however, to the flow of liquids between the conjunctiva and the periocular space. Hemorrhage arising within this space, or from a source within the cranium, will cause the blood-clot and the ecchymosis attending it easily to invade the ocular conjunctiva. Thence it can pass to the palpe- bral conjunctiva, and in advanced cases may stain the entire thickness of the lower eyelid. (3) In framing the differential diagnosis of fracture of the skull and of superficial ecchymosis, the fol- lowing statements may prove useful: Subcutaneous ecchymosis of the eyelids is a sign of hemorrhage having taken place peripherally to the conjunctival sac, or, in other words, outside of the skull^ except in the lower eyelid, where it may be (when studied with reference to the condition of the entire orbit and its contents) diagnosed as the last stage of peri-