THE TONGUE. 625 oOO^COO ■ greater part of the cortical portion, is divided into two regions by the position of the \/-shaped row of rounded eminences called the circumvallate papilhe. These are placed at the junction of the posterior third with the anterior two-thirds. The posterior third may receive the name of the hasal third or the base of the tonrjue ; while the anterior two-thirds may receive the name of the apical portion. By ordinary inspec- tion the basal third is concealed in the living subject, where it aids in forming the anterior wall of the pha- rynx. It can be readily seen, however, by the aid of reflected light. The apical third is more movable, and is, to a certain extent, protrusile. It is that por- tion which is seen by direct light when the mouth is opened. The papillse of the tongue are of two kinds: the true papillas and those belonging to the fibrous in- vestment. The true j^ai^illse are the more numerous, and are distributed everywhere throughout the sur- face of the organ. At the sides of the tongue, toward the palato-glossal folds, they are seen as rounded, or hemispherical tubercles, arranged in ridges, which are more or less vertical, and which gradually become interrupted and diminish in length as the tip of the organ is attained. The smaller of the papillae have been named the secondary papilla?, and aid in giving prominence to the jjrimary papillae. The primary pxifiUie (true papillaj) have been variously described, but may be considered as of three kinds: the cii'cumvallate, the capitate, and the conical. From a vertical section tlirougli the pa]>ina foliata of a rabbit. Magnifying power about 90. /, folds in transverse section with stratitied jiavenient epithe- lium ; at the basis of each fold art seen the taste-cells ; furrows between the folds ; into them open d, the ducts of the serous glands ; lymphatic vessel in the centre of the folds. The circumvallate papillse are the largest of the series, and are placed at the boundary between the oral and pharyngeal portions of the dorsum. As the name indicates, each is distinguished by being walled in by a prominent circle of secondary papilla;. The Fig. 154. P From a vertical section through a circumvallate papilla of a child. Magnified about oO. a, fold of mucous membrane surrounding the papilla itself, p, the fungiform papilla, showing minute secondary papilla;. Of the stratified epithelium only the nuclei of the cells are shown. At the basis of the papilla are seen the taste-cells, s, serous gland; its duct opens at the base of the papilla; m, a small section of a lobule of a mucous gland between the lobules of the serous gland ; b, the vascular mucosa ; the holes are capillary vessels cut in difi'erent directions.