EMBEYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. 749 ———xxO^CxX) .— EMBRYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. Embryology treats of the development of the embryo. Since the chief interest which the physician finds in this science is the detection of relationships which exist between normal and abnormal processes, it is proposed in this chapter to give a brief outline of those phases of embryology which may be held to be useful in studying congenital defects. The object of such a study is to determine how far the laws of morphology can explain the aberrant struc- tures of the human body, and to distinguish between such structures and the results of diseased action. The study of congenital defects is included under Teratology. Literally interpreted, teratology is that science which treats of monsters; and, as originally proposed by Etienne Geoffroy St. Hiliare,^ it treats of subjects in which are exhibited more than a single gross malformation. According to the same au- thority, specimens showing but a single defect are not to be considered as monsters, but as examples of anomaly. This distinction never came into general use, and the terms monster and anomaly are now almost inter- changeably employed. Neither the one nor the other term is accurate; for the term monster is simply a survival of a superstitious idea respecting the origin of a subject which may chance to exhibit gross defects; while no defect whatsoever can be considered an anomaly, since all so-called "anomalies" can be ex- j)lained (if explicable at all) by the operation of those laws the effects of which are seen in the normal de- velopment of the organism. The term variation expresses the unusual disposi- tion of the parts of an organ or system of related structures. Variations have been more carefully studied in the osseous, muscular, circulatory, and Jiervous systems than elsewhere in the body. Un- like the subjects of "teratology" and "anomaly," "variations" may be both congenital and acquired. The range of congenital variation in a given organ, and the relative rate of variations in different por- tions of the body are important subjects for investi- gation. In a general way it may be said that the J The numerous memoirs of this autlior (in the Comjites Rendus anrl Mus. d'Histoire Naturelle) extend over a period of twenty years, 1821-1840; see, also, Philosophie Anatomique, Paris, 1822. most plastic structures are either those which have retained to the greatest extent the formative pecu- liarities of the embryo (as, for example, the ovary), or those which have been added last in the pro- cesses of differentiation, as the occipital lobe of the cerebrum, the spleen, the thyroid body, etc. The study of variation of an anatomical object, broadly considered, not only embraces the departures from a standard description, which is simply the average drawn from numbers of observations, but in- cludes all structural phases of the lifediistory of the object under consideration. By it are implied, in addition, its modifications peculiar to sex, as well as its manner of responding to the impress of diseased action. Among the acquired variations may be mentioned the shapes of the skull as dependent upon rates of brain-growth; the deviation of the nasal septum; the increase of planal cleavage in the muscles of athletes; the changes in the ft^rm of a bone by muscle-trac- tion; the shape of the jaws in those persons who habitually breathe through the mouth ; the deforma- tion of the thorax dependent upon changes in rates of respiration; and the elevation of the aortic arch by increase of the action of tlie heart. For the most part all accounts of variations in this book are appended to the descriptions of the organs in which they occur. The Causes of Malformation.—In the early history of the embryo, malformation may be caused by violent agitation of the germ, by abrupt changes in its temperature, by the effects of inflammatory pro- cesses (infra), and by injury. The direct and imme- diate effects of any of these causes are often distinct from the indirect and subsequent effects. Thus a band of inflammatory adhesion between the amnion and the integument may distort superficial structures which appear thereafter in the entire region in which the adhesion occurs. In like manner intra-uterine frac- ture of the femur may distort the tibia and the fibula, invert or extend the foot, and reduce the number of the phalanges. Many of these effects are probably reflex phenomena, or those pertaining to the trojihic influence of nerves. Inflammatory effects are of two kinds: First, the effect upon tlie nutrition of a part by a thrombus, wliich has