EXAMINATIONS. ON MAKING POST- MO ET EM 777 —000^00-= less tlie post-mortem examination of the Diaphragm be made accnrately before its points of insertion, or the pressure to which it had been subject during life, had been disturbed. To open the chest an incision should be made, ex- tending from the centre of the inter-clavicular space downward to be continuous with the abdominal in- cision. The skin is quickly turned to either side by long sweeping cuts of the knife, the edge of which should keep close to the chest-wall, and expose the ribs at every stroke; the cleaner the exposure, the easier becomes the work of preparation for opening the chest-wall. Upon approaching the false ribs, the upper flaps, already made from the abdomen, should be held up, and the knife made to divide the slips of origin of the oblique muscles, so as to leave the lower ribs as clean as the upper. If the subject be young, the costal cartilages may be divided by a stout knife or costatome, immediately to the inner side of the sternal ends of the ribs, and a transverse section joining the longitudinal ones, about the line of the middle of the second costal cartilage. The last-named line will sever the manubrio-gladiolar junction. If, however, the parts mentioned are ossified, the saw must follow the lines of the incisions as given. Ordinarily, the saw is used for dividing the carti- lages, and the knife for dividing the sterno-clavicular articulation. The procedure of severing the attachment between the clavicle and the sternum is best effected as follows : Divide the first costal cartilage by an oblique incision from below upward and inward toward the under surface of the joint. This allows the knife to enter the joint at the lower edge of the sternal facet. Care should be taken to avoid opening the innominate vein. In opening the joint from above, more espe- cially if the first costal cartilage be not first divided, the vein is often entered by the incautious use of the knife. The escape of blood into the pleural cavi- ties is always unfortunate. The pleurae become smeared with blood, disguising their true appearance, and the serous fluid is lost.— Sawing through bone (either of rib or sternum) should be avoided when possible. If the section with the saw is compulsory, the edges should be covered with towelling to protect the hands of the operator. Littlejohn'has advised that, befoi'e the Diaphragm is raised, after the costal cartilage and diaphragmatic attachments have been divided, "the hand should be passed up into the anterior mediastinum, breaking ' Edinburgh Med. Jouni., 1876, 1113. 99 up the connective tissue, and exposing to the touch the organs as high as the root of the neck." This procedure frequently enables the operator at once to discover the probable cause of death. Any tumor, whether aneurismal or otherwise, is readily detected, and some general idea obtained as to the size of the heart and of the condition of the lungs. Nothing can be more embarrassing than to mutilate an aneurismal sac in removing the sternum; whereas, the existence of a swelling in the neighborhood of the aorta having been ascertained, greater care is exercised in separat- ing the sternum, and the diseased structures are ex- posed in an uninjured condition. The organs should now be described in situ. The Lungs. It is not necessary to remove the lungs in order to examine them. If the object of the exami- nation be to ascertain the general appearance of the parenchyma and pleura, the root of the lung need not be disturbed, but using it as a fixed point, the lung can be raised from its position and (by inserting a towel or large sponge in the pleural cavity) the organ can be thrown up above the plane of the body, placed thus in a good light, while such section or measure- ment is made as may be thought necessary. The Heart. The heart, from the delicacy of its mechanism, the complexity of its several parts, and the great importance frequently attached to its exam- ination after death, is to be studied with great care, and the necessary section to explore its interior is to be made with precision. After the pericardium is opened, the serum therein contained should be removed by a syringe and measured. The same instrument should be used in withdrawing anj^ fluid from the body, rather than a sponge, which is of necessity a much less accurate aid. Each chamber of the heart should be opened separately, but in such manner as to cause the least amount of injury to the valves, septa, and the orifices of the veins and arteries. The incisions proposed by Virchow (1. c, p. 36) are as follows:— For Eight Auricle, beginning half way between the planes of entrance of the venae cavae, and ending just in front of the base. For Eight Ventricle, beginning close to the base and carried nearly, but not quite, to apex; if carried too far toward the apex, the septie will be injured. For Left Auricle beginning at the left superior pul- monary vein, and ending in like manner just in front of the base, which is usually indicated by the very prominent coronary vein. The coronary veins should be carefully avoided.