766 EMBRYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. of the posterior wall and the las fond. The mucous membrane of the viscus projects at the fissure as a convex swelling, and bears the papillje of the ureters, from which the urine intermittently trinkles. The symphysis pubis is not completely closed. In males the testicles are either retarded in their descent, or, if they lie within the scrotum, congenital scrotal hernia coexists; the penis is rudimentary. In females the urethra and clitoris are absent, and the vestibule is either narrowed or is closed ; the vagina also may be absent. The essential structures of the genito- urinary tract remaMi as a rule unaffected. W. Atlee^ narrates a case in which the question of dilated urachus entered into the question of diagnosis of ovarian tumor.^ The External Organs of Generation. Up to the seventh or eighth week the intestinal canal, the ureters, the MuUerian and Wolffian ducts empty into a common chamber, which opens at the infe- rior pelvic outlet Avhich receives the name of the cloaca, an arrangement which persists in reptiles and birds, and the lowest of the mammalia. Subse- quently the rectum opens by a separate outlet—the anus—but the genito-urinary apparatus opened in a separate chamber—the uro-genilal sinus. At this period the perineum exhibits two openings in both sexes, a posterior, which is the anus, and an anterior, which is the outlet of the uro-genital sinus. The external organs of generation are about the same time developed from an indifferent type. Prior to the eighth or ninth week, the penis or clitoris is slightly projected from a circular pad of skin. The penis or clitoris exhibits a cleft beneath which communicates with the aperture of the uro-genital sinus. Beyond the period named the external differences in sex announce themselves. In the female the clitoris is determined by the persistence of the aperture of the uro-genital sinus. The sides of the cleft beneath the organ form the labia minora, which aid in defining the vestibule. The circular pad of integument and fat, shaping itself as the labia majora. In the male, the penis is determined by the closure of the aperture of the uro-genital sinus, and the obliteration of the groove on the under surface of the organ. The pad of skin is converted into the scrotum, which subse- quently receives the testis. Remarks.—Errors of development of the organs of generation may be grouped as follows :—• ' Ovarian Tumors, 50. ' For an account of the development of the Kidney in man and the lower animals, see Toldt, Proc. Wien. Acad., 1874, 123. The Wolffian bodies, instead of forming organs of the same sex, may form the parts comparable to those of a male on one side, and those of a female on the other. This malformation constitutes true or lateral hermaphroditism, and is an exceedingly rare variety of that condition. It has been observed in the hog, the ox, and in man. The Wolffian bodies are normally metamorphosed to male organs, but the external parts are imperfectly developed. Thus, an empty scrotum exists which resembles in form and position the labia majora; a rudimentary penis is seen which recalls the form of the penis; it is usually imperforate or hypospadic. The uro genital sinus may persist as a narrowed in- folding of the integument suggestive of a vagina. The secondary signs of virility, such as the beard, and the hair on the hypogastric region, are absent. The voice is not sonorous, nor is attraction to the opposite sex, as a rule, acknowledged. Should the uro-genital sinus be capacious, however, the person may pass for a female, and submit to intercourse as such. Dissec- tion of the body reveals small and imperfectly de- scended testicles. The Wolffian bodies may be normally metamor- phosed to female organs, while the external parts are imperfectly developed. In such aberrant forms the clitoris is larger than in the normally developed female, the vagina may be absent or small, and retain the appearance of a narrowed uro-genital sinus. W^hen examined with care a rudimentary uterus may be detected. The superficial phenomena of menstru- ation are often present. A sparse beard may exist, the voice is harsh, the disposition masculine. The individuals frequently pass for meU; and may have intercourse as such. Dissection shows normally situ- ated ovaries, but the Fallopian tubes may be rudi- mentary and closed. The internal organs of generation may be normal and the penis or clitoris be properly defined, but the uro-genital sinus may persist and include the lower portion of the rectum. Or the sinus may, as is normal, disappear and with it all external orifice of the rectum. The latter malformation is known as congenital im- perforate rectum. According to 0. Beumer,' malformation of the genital organs is frequently associated with absence of one kidney. This is seen to be natural enough when it is remembered that the internal organs of generation arise from the same portion of the embryo as the kidneys. An early impress of malnutrition in 1 Virchow's Archiv, Ix., 1874, 1 ; Taf. 1.