FOR SALE BY SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. REYNOLDS' SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Revised Edition. Now Ready. A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M. D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College, London. With notes and additions by Henry Hartshorne, M. D., late Professor of Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania. In three large and handsome royal octavo volumes, containing 3056 double-columned pages, with 317 illustrations. Per volume, cloth, ^5 y leather, $6; half Russia, ^6.50. Per set, cloth, ^15; leather, $1^; half Russia, ^19.50. The labors of the Americ.m editor, Di-. Hartshorne, have been very conscientiously performed, and liis judicious notes distributed tliroughout, afford abundant evidence of tlie thoroughness of the revision at his liands. In conclusion, we take pleasure in commending this work to our readers, feeling confident that it will not only become standard, but from its containing just that information which tlie busy practitioner frequently finds himself in need of, from its completeness, its fulness of detail, and its excellence, it will ba justly ap- preciated by the entire profession on this continent.—Southern Practitioner, A^rW, 1S80. For conciseness and comprehensiveness in the treatment of all the subjects embraced under the head of " Practice of iCodicine," there is no work in the English language, or in any other language, for that matter, which equals, much less excels, Heynolds' System. Each volume contains a complete index, a feature which those who may have encyclopajdic works of medicine not containing this index can fully appreciate.—Michigan J/edical News, June 10, 1880. We regard this the finest work on the practice of medicine in the English language. In fact, we do not think it has its superior in any language in the world. Combining, ,is it does, a complete history of diseases, a thorough account of their pathology, a full description of therapeutics, and a minute detail of treatment, etc., it embodies all that a practitioner can wish.—Cincinnati Medical Times, August 1880. HOLMES' SYSTEM OF SURGERY. Americanized. Just Ready. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. In Treatises by Various Authors; Edited by Timothy Holmes, M. A., Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery at St. George's Hospital, London. American edition, thoroughly revised and much enlarged, by John H. Packard, M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal and St. Joseph's Hospitals, Philadelphia,, assisted by a corps of thirty-three of the most eminent surgeons of America. In three large and very handsome royal octavo volumes containing 3137 double-columned pages, with 979 illustrations on wood, and 13 lithographic plates, beautifully colored. Per volume, cloth, $6; leather, $•]; half Russia, raised bands, ^7.50. Per set, cloth, ^18; leather, $21; halfRussia, raised bands, $22.50. Representing originally the most advanced school of British surgery, it has been supple- mented, tliiough the labors of its editor, by what is latest and best in tlie surgery of America. It may therefore Ije regarded as embodying whatever is of established value in this depart- ment of our art. No surgeon who proposes to keep abreast with his rivals can afford to he without it.—American Practitioner, April, 1882. ■ It is a suViject for congratulation that the idea of an American edition, incorporating all recently acquired knowledge and experience, should have been conceived and its execution entrusted to such able hands as Packard's. The names of coadjutors afford a sufficient guarantee that the work has not only been brought fully up to date, out also that it has been accomplished in this large, thorough and scientific spirit, which characterizes the contributions to the original edition.—Canada Journal of Medical Science, Nov. 1881. The elegant American revision of this justly celebrated work, will give to the American practitioners, a corresijonding coll.aboration of surgical lore, to that they already have in possessing the volumes of Reynolds' System of Medicine, and with the two works, the fortunate possessor has a most complete library on Practical Medicine and Surgery.— Braithwaite's Retrospect and Quarterly Epitome of Pracl. Med. and Sur<j., Sept. 1881. PERIODICALS. SUBSCRIPTION RATES, POSTAGE PAID. The Medical News (published every Saturday) in advance ^5.00 The American Journ.a.l of the Medical .Sciences (quarterly) in advance ^5.00 COMMUTATION RATES The Medical News The American Journal of the Medical Sciences THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. I. MINIS HAYS, A. M., M. D., EDITOR. For sixty-two years the American Journal has maintained its position in the front rank of medical literature, and to-day it stands alone as the only periodical in the English language capable of presenting extended and elaborate articles on every branch of medical science, the very class of contributions, in fact, in which nearly all the important discoveries in the science have been communicated to the profession. During the year the Journal will present, in its original department, a continuation of elaborate articles from the pens of the most eminent members of the profession throughout the country. The review department will contain extended re\iews of prominent new works, by competent writers, together with numerous analytical and bibliographical notices, giving a full survey of medical literature. The qu.\rterly summary OF IMPROVEMEN'ts and discoveries in the medical sciences, classified and arranged under various heads, will furnish a dige.st of medical progress at home and abroad. With the issue for January, 1882, the size of the Journal was permanently increased by the addition of l6'to 20 pages. It is still furnished, free of postage, for FIVE DOLLARS per annum, in advance. THE MEDICAL NEWS. A NATIONAL WEEKLY MEDICAL PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, EACH NUMBER CONTAINING 28 DOUBLE-COLUMNED QUARTO PAGES, EXCLUSIVE OF ADVERTISEMENTS. The Medical News aims to satisfy the demand of the profession for the most rapid possible conveyance of intelligence, in short, to be a professional news- paper. To this end it comprises the following departments: 1st. Clinical Lectures, Ijy the ablest teachers of the day. 2nd. Original articles, of a brief and practical nature. 3rd. Hospital Notes, gleaned from the leading hospitals on both continents. 4th. The Progress of Medical Science, being extracts from the medical and scientific journals in all quarters of the globe, showing the advances made in medicine. 5th. The Editorial Dep.\rtment, conducted by a large and able Editorial Staff 6th. Proceedings of the meetings of prominent medical societies. 7th. News items and correspondence from the pens of medical men in the leading cities of the United States, Canada, Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, Asia, South America and Cuba. 8th. Notices of new publications, new instruments, and new pharmaceutical preparations, and a column of Notes and Queries. A feature characteristic of the News will be a liberal use of the telegraph. The News is printed by the finest Hoe presses, on handsome paper, from beautiful type cast expressly for its use. The price, FIVE DOLLARS a year, in advance, places it within the means of every physician to subscribe to a medical newspaper, which represents the most enlightened thought, and possesses the most progressive spirit of the age. The American Journal and the Medical News together contain an amount of the choicest medical literature equal to 4000 large octavo pages, in which duplication of matter is prevented by special arrangement. They will be furnished for NINE DOLLARS per annum, in advance, an offer unparalleled in the history of medical journalism. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA. I in advance, ^9.00