650 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. violence, notwithstanding its sheltered position. Di- rect blows can scarcely reach the duodenum. The liver and transverse mesocolon protect its first portion as well probably as the transverse colon protects its transverse or terminal portion. Poland' cites three cases of rupture, in one of which there was a simple rent, one inch long, situated on the convex border of the first portion. In the second case the rent was like wise small, but situated on the descending portion ; while in the third the gut Avas torn entirely across. Eccles^ describes a case in which a child of twelve months sufiered severance of the transverse from the vertical portion through a fall. In cancer of the pancreas, the duodenum may be- come greatly contracted. The gut, according to Sir A. Cooper, may be forced forward by an engorged and distended thoracic duct. The duodenum is often seen in emaciated subjects lying ahove the level of the transverse colon. The regions of the abdomen normally occupied by the jejunum and ileum are the epigastric, umbilical, and portions of the other regions. The exact posi- tion varies exceedingly according to the condition of the stomach and of the colon. Thus, when the stomach is full, the intestines are depressed ; when it is empty, they are elevated, and are often in contact with the Diaphragm in the left hypochondriac region. In distended states of the colon the intestines are excluded in great part from the lumbar, hypochon- driac, and epigastric regions. When, in an obscure condition of the abdominal organs, it is desired to show from which portion of the cavity a tumor has projected, it is useful to remember that the tumor dis- places the intestine in front of its line of advance. Thus, in enlarged conditions of the bladder, ovary, and uterus, the intestines are carried upward; in enlarged spleen downward and to the right. In peritoneal effusion they lie at the umbilicus in the recumbent, and in the epigastric region in the erect position. The last-mentioned fact is of value in dis- tinguishing abdominal tumor from ascites. "The small intestines when distended and occupy- ing the pelvis have been known to so press upon the rectum as to prevent the lodgment of injections, and to cause the doubling of the long tube, which has led to the supposition that the obstruction was at the extremity of the colon, instead of in the ileum as ap- peared after death."^ 1 Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1858, iy. 123. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., 1863, 497. 3 Diseases of the Rectum. T. B. Curling, 4tk ed., 177. In a state of health the coils of intestine are closely applied to one another, so that it is possible for a portion of a coil to be opened and yet no feculent matter escape into the peritoneal cavity. It also follows that direct lesions of the mesentery are rare, and that the mesenteric side of the bowel is protected. However, a case is recorded by Birkett in which a rent one-and-a-half inch long, beginning in the mesentery, extended into the bowel. Bright' men- tions a case in which convolutions of the small intes- tine, as well as the colon and omentum, lay in front of the liver and pressed it back. The existence of fibrous adhesions uniting any por- tions of the coils of the intestine may seriously inter- fere with the ranges of variation in the relations of the bowel to the neighboring organs. The anatomical considerations pertaining to intes- tinal obstruction naturally are of two kinds, viz., intrinsic and extrinsic. The intrinsic include intus- susception and torsion. The extrinsic relate to perito- neal adhesions, or to incarceratipn of a portion of the intestine either within or without the abdomen. Intussusception is caused by irregular contraction of the circular muscular coat of the intestine. Tlie portion so constricted having a diameter much less than that directly beneath it, is urged by the general downward peristalsis of the bowel to enter the lower portion. It is thought by W. Brinton, who has made an exhaustive study of the subject,^ that intussuscep- tion at this stage, as seen in the dead bodies of "young and well-nourished subjects, may occur in the irregular contractions of the last agony of death or be due to the rio-or mortis of the dead intestine." There is no objection to the acceptance of the view that in- tussusception without obstruction may often take place during life, the symptoms attending such an occurrence being simply those of severe colic. When, however, the condition is maintained sufliciently long to be complicated with inflammatory effusion, ob- struction rapidly supervenes. At the site of the invagination there are three thicknesses of the bowel. First, and most internal, is the constricted portion, which induces the invagination ; second, the vagina- like portion embracing the above; and thirdly, the slightly dilated bowel below the intussuscepted point. The inflammatory effusion taking place between the serous surfaces of the first and second coverings will in a short time obliterate the narrow canal between them. The arrangement of the mesentery determines ' Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1840, 317. 2 Intestinal Obstruction.