THE VAGINA, COO^OO-: 721 Among other patlio-anatomical relations may be mentioned the possibility of the occurrence of abscess in the connective tissue between the bladder and the uterus, a fact well authenticated by Barnes, and for which we may be prepared when, as Kohlrausch informs us, the union between the two organs is such that it is difficult to identify the tissue as distinct from the muscular fibre of the two organs.—The round ligament is vascular, and is especially rich in veins. These may become varicose, and according to Cru- veilhier may simulate hernia. The canal of Nuck is rarely persistent, when it may serve for the easy descent of a hernial protrusion.—W. L. Atlee^ narrates an instance of an enormous collection of retained menstrual fluid in the posterior division of a bi cor- nuate uterus. THE VAGINA. The Vagina^ (figs. 1 and 3, Plate CIX.; figs. 193, 194) is a musculo-membranous canal extending from the uterus to the vulva. It is narrowed below, and joins the vulva by a vertical slit-like orifice. It receives above the lower third of the neck of the uterus. It is slightly curved from before backward, but preserves in the main the axis of the true pelvis. When its relations are undisturbed the length of the vagina is not greater than two-and-a-half inches. It can, however, easily be extended to four inches, which is usually given as the normal length. The posterior wall is found to be five lines longer than the anterior. The walls of the vagina are for the most part in apposition, but can without undue violence be separated one inch, which may be said to be the diameter of the parts in the virgin. At the level of the hymen and under the influence of the Sphincter Vaginas the lower portion of the vagina is the narrowest; the upper part (fornix vaginte) is maintained in a nearly cylindrical form by the neck of the uterus; the form of the intermediate portion is dependent upon the condition of the bladder and of the rectum, but may be said to be flattened from before backward. The inner surface of the vagina presents two longi- tudinal elevations—one on the anterior, the other on the posterior surface—termed thecolumns. Associated with each column are a number of riujds, arranged ' Ovarian Tumors, 301. 2 Tlie figures on Plate CIX. represent the vagina distended, and may be said to represent the conventional view. The actual dis- position of parts, as seen in carefully made sections, varies greatly in different subjects ; two views are given in figs. 193 and 194, from D. B. Hart. 92 transversely to a median longitudinal ridge; they re- call the roughened elevations on the hard palate. When a transverse section of the vagina is made the two columns are seen touching. This appearance is much modified by child-birth. The columns and rugae become faint above, and may entirely disap- pear. The rugte are more persistent on the anterior than on tlie posterior wall, and are always constant toward the lower part of the anterior column. The fact last mentioned is of practical importance, since the column forms a prominent swelling which, by its relation to the posterior wall of the vaghia, closes the vestibule posteriorly. The constancy of the position of the anterior column is of great value in introducing the catheter by serving as a guide to the position of the urethral orifice. Directly in front of the rugous swelling just de- scribed is the hi/men. This is a crescentic fold of mucous membrane jutting forward into the lumen of the vagina from the posterior and lateral walls. It is thicker at the attached than at the free border. The hymen, as a rule, indicates virginity. It appears early in the foetus and persists until coitus; after which act the remains of the hymen are seen as fimbrite or scar-like nodules, termed the carunculse myrtiformes. The foregoing description answers to the average condition of the parts. The hymen, it is necessary to state, is subject to great variation. The importance of variation both in practical medicine and in medico-legal studies has led to their careful consideration. The existing state of knowledge on the subject may be epitomized as follows :— (1) The hymen may not be ruptured in coitus, and after tlie act may recover its virgin appearance. (2) The open- ing may be torn or dilated by the finger or instruments. (3) It may be imperforate, causing retention of the menstrual fluid. Luschka has described as among the unusual variations of the hymen a fimbriated form ; and Hyrtl mentions the rare occurrence of a hymen furnished with more than one opening. The bulb of the vagina.—Under this name are in- cluded two erectile organs which are situated upon the lateral walls near the inferior orifice of the vao;ina, and which are believed to be homologous with the spongy body of the male. Each portion is elongated and leech-like in form, the inner surface concave, the outer surface convex, and the whole embraced by the Sphincter Vaginas muscle. Relations The vagina is placed between the bladder and the rectum. The anterior wall is thus described as entering into the vesicv-vayinal septum., and the posterior entering into the recto-vaginal septum. The pelvic connective