THE DECIDUOUS TEETH. =<x>^oo< 633 cusps. The buccal and lateral sides of the crown are marked by faint fissures which are continuous with the sulci on the grinding surface, while the median and palatal sides are unbroken. The roots are three in number, of which the inner or palatal is the largest and most divergent, the two outer or buccal roots being as a rule parallel with each other and united at the crown. The last molar or wisdom tooth is the smallest of the three, and exceedingly irregular in form. As a rule the two anterior (median) cusps and the median ridge are constant, but the two remaining cusps are apt to be small and the postero-external (latero-buccal) may be absent. In all the molars this last cusp is the smallest, and may not reach to the level of the others. The roots of the wisdom tooth may be entirely confluent and somewhat de- flected from the axis of the crown. In the inferior molars the cusps are of nearly equal size, and sepa- rated by a deep cranial sulcus. The crowns are more oblong from the median to the lateral border than is the case with the superior molars. The crowns two in number and compressed medio-laterally. Fig. 171. :ire Tlie deciduous teeth of the right side in the upper and the lower jaws, n central incisors; i, lateral incisors; c, canine and stomach teeih ; d, first liuilars ; c, second molars. THE DECIDUOUS TEETH. The Deciduous Teeth (figs. 3, 5, Plate XCIX. figs. 171-173) (milk teeth, temporary teeth) are twenty in number. They resemble in their general features those of the permanent set, though at the junction of the neck and crown the enamel is apt to have a slightly bulging appearance, which is best seen in the molars. The canines are relatively shorter, while their crowns are broader than their successors. In the molars the ridges are often developed at the expense of the cusps. In the bicuspid tooth the ridge uniting the cusps on their median border fre- quently assumes the form of a trenchant fold of enamel. 81 Fi-. 172. Fig. 173. Fi?. 172.- Fig. 173.- -Upper second deciduous tooth with four roots. -Lower second deciduous molar with three roots. Variations The teeth are very variable in form, so that it is difficult to frame any description which will not be open to exception. A few general principles may be of use in enabling the student to identify readily any dei)arture from the above outline description. (1) For every cusp there is a tendency to form a distinct root. (2) All cusps tend in variation to assume the conical form. A tooth with a single cusp, as the incisor, may be said to be a cone compressed from before backward ; and a canine tooth, a cone slightly excavated posteriorly. (3) The inflections between the conical crown and its basal eminence described in connection witli the incisors and canine teeth are sufficient to define every possible modi- fication of form in the crowns of these teeth. (4) This basal eminence in the human tooth is of tiie same value as the cingidum of the teeth of some quadru- peds. (5) The incisor and canine teeth are composed respec- tively of a single modified cusp and an insignificant basal ridge or cingulam A bicuspid tooth is composed of a primary cusp, and a larger cingidum, which, however, never attains the size of the primary cusp. In the bicuspid tooth the cingulum enters upon the grinding surface, where it is functionally active, and where it may receive the name of a second cusp.—The molar tooth retains the two cusps of the bicuspid tooth, and in addition secures a third placed upon the outer or- buccal side of the others. Upon the palatal side (opposite the latter), is a large cingulum, which is almost coequal with the true cusps, but enters less com- pletely upon the grinding surface. These features distinguish the first and second superior molars. The third superior molar or wisdom tooth resembles closely a bicuspid in the general absence of the cingulum and in the retention of the molar cus[) in a comparatively active condition. Tiie lateral surface of the crown of a wisdom tooth is apt to present no sulci, thus resembling a similar surface of the bicuspid tooth. (G) In the lower jaw all four of the conical points of the grinding surface are engaged in the trituration of food. If any additional conical eminences be present, they almost invariably appear upon the buccal surface. (7) The union of the inner and outer cusps of a bicuspid tooth by a ridge, and the subsequent appearance of tiiis ridge in uniting the anterior pair of cusps are not characteristic of the human teeth, but are best seen in the teeth of the East Indian monkey (^Semiwpithecus) and in those of the baboon (Cynocephalus). Occasionally in supernumerary incisor teeth