I THE EEGION OF THE FOOT. :x>0§§00« . 747 the "shin," of common language—can be defined, la rachitic subjects this surface is uniformly convex.— Tlie shin is firmly adherent to the underlying parts. The lateral surface (peroneal region, antero-lateral region) is defined by the fibula, and answers to the location of the Peroneal muscles, peroneal vessels, and the external popliteal nerve. The position of the bone can be obscurely felt throughout. Above, the head can be readily distinguished, and below, namely, at its lower half, where the bone lies beneath the integument, the anterior surface can be easily out- lined. Tlie muscular mass about the upper half of the fibula corresponds to the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis muscles.—The skin over the lateral region is more hairy than elsewhere on the leg. The posterior surface is convex and broad. It is less pronounced in the negro than in the white race, and answers for the most part to the bulk of the Gastro- cnemius and Soleus muscles. The inner longer head of the muscle first named can be easily distinguished. Toward the ankle the tendo Achillis forms a conspic- uous feature. To the inner side of the tendon the posterior tibial artery can be felt pulsating, and the j)Osition of the tendons of the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Longus Digitorum can be determined.—Tlie shin of the posterior region is thinner, softer, and more yielding than upon the anterior or the lateral surfaces. The course of the short saphenous vein can often be noted. THE ANKLE. The Eegion of the Ankle is defined above by a line uniting the bases of the malleoli, and below by a line drawn round the limb at a point about half an inch below the malleoli; behind at a point on a level with the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and in front, about an inch in front of the lower extremity of tlie tibia. The region thus corresponds to that of the union of the tibia, fibula, and astragalus with one another, and embraces in addition the reg'.on of the head of the astragalus. The ankle is remarkable for the absence of muscle tissue about it. It is of great strength behind and at the sides, but is weak in front. The ankle is divided into an anterior, a posterior, a lateral, and a median surface. The anterior surface (front of ankle) is marked from within outward, in the order in which they are here mentioned, by the tendons of the Tibialis Anticus, Extensor Proprius Pollicis, the Extensor Communis Digitorum, and the Peroneus Tertius muscles. These tendons are readily distinguished; that of the Tibialis Anticus is the most conspicuous, and that of the Ex- tensor Communis Digitorum answers to the middle line of the surface.—When the foot is fully extended, the convex surface of the anterior capsule of the joint can be felt lying between the internal malleolus and the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus. The shin is smooth and delicate. It is thrown into a number of transverse creases in flexion. The posterior surface (back of ankle) is marked by the prominent tendo Achillis. The upper portion of the tendon answers to the inter-articular line, on either side of which structure a hollow space is de- fined. The posterior tibial artery can be felt pulsat- ing in the centre of the median hollow. The tendon of the Tibialis Posticus can be distinguished behind the internal malleolus in adduction of the foot. In synergic contractions of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis and the Flexor Longus Pollicis, a swelling appears in the median hollow which can be referred to the mus- cle last named. In flexion the outline of the deltoid ligament can be determined. In the lateral hollow can be felt (best in abduction and pronation of the foot) the tendons of the Peroneus Longus and Pero- neus Brevis muscles. The sldn of the posterior surface is a little thicker than in front, and is freely movable over the tendo Achillis. Fat is abundant in the hollows at the sides of the tendon, but is nearly absent over the tendon itself. The bursa between the tendon and the calca- neum is sometimes distinguishable. The lateral and median surfaces (sides of ankle) answer to the spaces over the malleoli, and present few points of interest beyond the outlines of the malleoli themselves, which are bold and distinct. The internal malleus, while broader than the exter- nal, is less prolonged inferiorly, and is set a little more forward. The internal malleolus is obliquely placed to the axis of the tibia, while the axis of the external malleolus is in the same line as the longitu- dinal axis of the fibula. THE FOOT. The foot is that portion of the inferior extremity which is placed distally to the ankle-joint. But since the region of the ankle-joint is already defined, it is convenient to restrict to the foot that region placed in advance of a line drawn round the limb half an inch below the malleoli. The foot, as a whole, joins the leg at nearlv a rip-ht ang;le. The Eegion of the Foot is divided into— The Tarso-Metatarsal Eegion. The Ecftion of the Toes.