SUPEEFICIAL AND T 0 P 0 G R A P HI C A L ANATOMY. 7^6 —. ^>OO^<0 ;X>— - to the line of epiphyseal junction. The lower part of the Vastus Internus muscle can be determined. The Posterior Eegion' (ham, back of knee) is hollow in flexion, but is flat or even convex in extension. The boundaries of the posterior region are best seen when the knee is semiflexed. They are then well defined by the tense folds which answer to the tendons of the hamstring muscles. The lower half of the popliteal space is less distinctly outlined, and answers to the soft yielding mass lying between the prominence of the head of the tibia and the head of the fibula. The depression between the hamstrings is the liol- loio of the knee (popliteal fossa, sulcus poplitei). The tendon of the Biceps can be easily distin- guished at the outer border, and, in semiflexion, the external popliteal nerve also lying to its median side. In the same position of the joint the internal popliteal nerve can be felt in the median line at the centre of the ham. In yet deeper palpation the popliteal artery can be often felt pulsating. Along the median border the tendons of the Semitendinosus, the Semimembranosus, and the Gracilis can be eaBily determined. Small superficial lymphatic glands can be dis- tinguished beneath the skin in young strumous sub- jects. Owing to the dense fascia covering the joint posteriorly, the parts beneath the fascia can be im- perfectly if at all defined. The deep lymphatic glands when enlarged form diffuse swellings of the ham. Collections of pus here tend to pass up or down the limb, or even into the joint rather than toward the surface. The shin of the posterior region is delicate, and marked by a transverse crease at a point a little above the interarticular line. It may be greatly distended to accommodate a tumor or an aneurismal sac. On the other hand, it may contract in long- continued flexion of the joint, and has been known to rupture as a result of sudden and forced extension. The fat of the posterior region is more abundant than in the anterior, and may become the seat of abscess. The bursie of the posterior region are found on both the median and lateral borders, but are smaller and less constant along the lateral. An enlarged bursal swelling occurring between the tendon of the Biceps, and the external popliteal nerve, may be identi- fied with the bursa normally present between the tendon of this muscle and the external lateral liga- ment. The bursas that can be detected along the median border are commonly confined to the space between the inner head of the Gastrocnemius and the 1 For boundaries of the popliteal space, see p. 406. tendon of the Semimembranosus. They may commu- nicate with the joint. In the middle of the posterior region, the hernial protrusions of the synovial mem- brane may occur of sufficient size to be determined by manipulation. For the most part they can be distinguished from enlarged bursfe, not only from their position, but from the fact that in semiflexion gentle pressure will cause the tumors to disappear. THE LEG. The region of the Leg is defined proximally by a circular line which embraces the limb at the level of the tubercle of the tibia, and distally, by a second which encircles the limb directly above the malleoli. The general form of the leg is conical, the base being upward. It is smooth and uniformly round in children and in women, but is irregularly prismoidal in men. The leg is roughly divided into a muscular proxi- mal two-thirds, and a distal tendinous one third. This division, while not exact, will serve to separate the bulky parts of most of the muscles of the leg from their tendons, as they lie within this region. The line of such a division nearly corresponds to the point of escape of the musculo-cutaneous nerve from the deep fascia. The skin throughout is more adherent to the fascia than is the case in the thigh, and is in addition con- trasted with that portion of the integument in being in close relation to both the tibia and the fibula for considerable portions of their length. Beneath the skin a sparse layer of fat is deposited anteriorly, but becomes thicker posteriorly. Accepting the prismoidal form as typical, the leg exhibits three surfaces: an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior surface. The anterior surface (antero-median region, region of the "shin ") corresponds to the anterior surface of the tibia, and to the course of the anterior tibial vessel and nerve. At the upper portion, just below the tuber- cle of the tibia, the elongated swelling of the belly of the Tibialis Anticus can be felt, and to its outer side the belly of the Extensor Lougus Digitorum. At the lower portion, immediately above the internal malle- olus, especially when the ankle is flexed and the toes extended, the tendons of these muscles, together Avith the tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, can be felt as they lie along the tibia. The inter- mediate portion of the anterior surface is marked by the crest of the tibia, which can be thus felt, for nearly the entire length of the leg, as a sigmoid curve. To the outer side the corresponding anterior surface—