POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. ON MAKING 775 ON MAKING POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. The following rules for conducting post-mortem examinations will be found useful:— The abdomen should be examined first. To effect this, a free incision should be made in the median line from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubis, care being at the same time exercised to shield the intes- tines from injury. In incipient decomposition the coils of small intestine lie closely apposed to tlie anterior abdominal wall, and will be liable to injury if the latter be not lifted from them, or a director slipped beneath the parietal peritoneum before the final section is effected. A transverse incision should next be made which will pass either imme- diately above or below the umbilicus. The four triangular flaps made by the above incisions may now be turned outward, the abdominal muscles divided from within outward, and the flaps turned over on the trunk. The abdominal contents, after being observed in their relations one with another, and with the trunk, may be examined in the follow- ing order:— 1. The peritoneum including the great omentum, the jejuno duodenal fossa, the pelvic folds, hernial protrusions, etc. 2. The small intestines (after the portal vein and its tributaries have been examined) may be secured at the beginning of the jejunum and at the end of the ileum by double ligatures (the gut being divided be- tween them), and the mesentery boldly cut through. If no immediate interest attaches itself to the small intestine, the mass may be placed in water and exam- ined at the close of the autopsy. 3. The genito-urinary apparatus should next be examined, extending in observation from above downward. The supra-renal capsule is here included for convenience. 4. The spleen, stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and liver next claim attention. These structures have in- timate topographical and clinical relations. The colon being left in position is of importance, since many of the lesions of chronic disease, especially of the epigastric and hypochondriac organs, involve the shape, size, position, and not infrequently even the integrity of the colon particularly at its transverse portion. The liver should be left to the last, because of the important relations it sustains to the Dia- phragm. The Diaphragm is not to be disturbed, or the thorax opened, until the abdominal organs have been satisfactorily studied. This practice is advised, not because the mere removal of the upper abdominal organs would of necessity affect the arch of the Dia- phragm, but because of the chances that it may do so. The almost inevitable dragging on the Diaphragm during the removal of the liver may cause the lungs to expand, and a false conclusion thus be arrived at re- specting the ante-mortem condition of these organs, while a m.ere accidental puncture through this tense tendo-muscular septum will cause the entire struc- ture to become flaccid, and the condition of the base of the pleural cavities, and of the lower part of the pericardium as it existed during life to be irrevocably destroyed. In removing the liver from its bed the lateral liga- ments should be first divided, tlie hand (wit.li palm down) should next be thrust between the Diaphragm and the liver, and the former thus peeled from the latter. The organ should be isolated from all topographical relations, and held by the organic only, namely those found in the lesser omentum. This important band should not be divided until after the duodenum and pancreas have been studied. In the above description it is noticeable that the knife is used only in dividing the lateral ligaments and the lesser omentum; all other connections can be removed with the fingers. The Spigelian lobe is thus saved intact, the free use of the knife from above downward often resulting in the mutilation of this lobe. For the simple examination of the stomach a lon- gitudinal section of the anterior wall will suffice. The organ should be removed by separating the Dia- phragm from the oesophagus and dividing the latter as high up as can be done without destroying the Dia- phragm. The lower end should be preserved intact by dividing the ascending portion of the duodenum.