680 THE ORGANS OF RESPIEAT10 oOO^Oo<5 When at rest, the arytenoid is inclined slightly for- ward, and presents for examination three snrfaces, a posterior, median, and anterior; and also a base and an apex. The posterior surface is triangular, smooth, and concave for the partial attachment of the Arytenoid muscle. The median surface is narrow, but wider below than above. It presents a nearly vertical sur- face, which is covered by the laryngeal mucous mem- brane, and serves to limit each side of the inter-aryte- noid space. The anterior surface is at the same time directed slightly outward. It is irregularly convex, and is roughened for the attachment of the thyro- arytenoid ligament. The details of structure upon the anterior surface are more numerous than upon the others, and may be briefly epitomized as follows : At the upper part of the posterior border a slight eminence is seen which is known as the coUicuIus or supe- rior spine. Below the colliculus lies a depression known as the deltoid fossa, beneath which, but ascending to define its [)Osterior wall, is an arched crest (crista transversa) or inferior spine. Adjacent is seen an oblong depression (fovea oblonga) for the insertion of the Thyro-Arytenoid muscle. The colliculus can sometimes be seen within the laryngeal image as a slight eminence above the laryngeal pouch. The hase presents a deeply arched concavity for articulation with the eminence upon the cricoid car- tilage. The posterior end of the base is slightly pro- longed, and strengthened on the posterior surface to form the musculo-articular process (tubercle) for the insertion of the Crico-Arytenoid muscle. Anteriorly the line of the base is extended be3^ond the articular facet, which forms a pyramidal process known as the vocal 'process. The vocal process is a conspicuous feature in the outline of the rima glottidis as seen in the laryngeal image. It is estimated that its length is from one-third to one-fourth that of the antero- posterior diameter of the glottis. The apex of the arytenoid cartilage is formed by a small obliquely- placed plane, to be studied in connection with the fol- lowing structures. THE CARTILAGES OF SANTORINI. The Cartilages of Santorini are conical or cylin- drical nodules of fibro-cartilage, which are situated at the upper part or apex of the arytenoid cartilages. Tliey are freely movable, and are, as a rule, united with the arytenoids by synchondrosis, although they may be, according to Cruveilhier, distinct. They form, when covered with mucous membrane, con- spicuous rounded eminences upon the posterior mar- gin of the laryngeal aperture. THE CARTILAGES OF WRISBERG. The Cartilages of Wrisberg are small, rod-like, or wedge-like nodules of fibro-cartilage, which are lodged between the layers of the aryteno-epiglottic fold, and which are surrounded by mucous glands. The inner extremity commonly projects above the free border of the fold, a little to the outer side of the eminence of the cartilage of Santorini. G. D. Gibb' found the cartilages of Wrisbero- lar<ier in the negro race than in the white. Luschka has described a minute inconstant nodule of carti- lage named by him the sesamoid cartilage, whicli is held by a ligament to the outer margin of the arytenoid, between that body and the cartilage of Santorini. He has also directed attention to a pair of minute inconstant structures (Luschka's cartilages) upon the vocal cord near its insertion into the thyroid cartilage. He names the first the posterior sesa- moid and the second the anterior sesamoid cartilage. He mentions the rare existence of a small nodule of cartilage which he names infer-arytenoid. It lies upon the posterior aspect of tlie pharynx, directly beneath the mucous mem- brane, and is connectec^ to the cartilage of Santorini above by a pair of fibrous cords, and below by a single cord which unites it to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage. Luschka refers to a case in which, owing to its unusual development, a prominence due to the presence of this car- tilage was visible in the laryngeal image, and was mistaken for an abscess. Mucus and other fluids are guided by the posterior boun- dary of the superior laryngeal aperture to the sides of the pharynx and a3sophagus. Thus a single current of a liquid passing downward from the mouth divides into two streams which subsequently commingle in the oesophagus below the larynx. THE THYROID CARTILAGE. The Thyroid Cartilage, so called from its resem- blance to a shield, incloses and protects the essential parts of the vocal apparatus. It is a symmetrical body, presenting two flanges (alae, sides), which are arranged at an acute angle to each other like the divergent parts of a half-opened screen. The re-entering angle is placed in the median line, while the sides are directed backward and outward. Each side or wing is quadrangular, and presents for examination an external and an internal surface as well as four borders and two cornua. The outer surface is marked by an oblique line which extends between two marginal tubercles; one of these is situated upon the posterior border at its upper third, the other upon the inferior border. Tliis ridge separates the anterior three-fourths from the 1 Anthrop. Rev., 1864, 322.