590. ORGANS OF SENSE. ■ oc^O^OOO . ocular hemorrhage. The presence of subconjunctival ecchymosisis evidence of blood having escaped hehind or centrally to the conjunctival sac, or, in other words, at some point in the periocular space, and ordinarily from a source inside the skull.—In the paroxysms of "whooping-cough, extravasations of blood may occur beneath the scleral conjunctiva.—The deposition of products of inflammation beneath the scleral con- junctiva receives the name chemosis. (4) The value of distinguishing the tegumental and conjunctival layers of the eyelid is borne out in Arlt's method of operating for inversion of the eye- lashes. The eyelashes belonging to the upper eyelid are raised with the skin layer, by carefully splitting the lid between the row of lashes and the tarsal car- tilage. The latter structure, together with the con- junctiva, is allowed to remain in contact with the eyeball. Then, by removing from the skin layer an elliptical piece, and uniting the edges of the wound thus produced, the free edge containing the eyelashes is raised and permanently everted. Incisions in the eyelids should always be made parallel to the course of the palpebral muscle fibres. The tactile sensibility of the conjunctiva is very great. The moment the person to whom an anaes- thetic agent is administered ceases to wink when the scleral conjunctiva is touched, general antesthesia may be considered to be established. Sensibility to pain, however, is less decided. High grades of in- flammation may exist in the conjunctival tissue, and but slight pain result. {h) The Lachrymal Apparatus. The tears flowing from the lachrymal gland pass downward into the conjunctival sac, and thence, flowing across the en- tire conjunctival space, escape by the canaliculi into the lachrymal sac, and thence, by the lachrymo- nasal duct, into the nose. If the tears formed be in excess of the capacity of the conjunctival space, they flow over upon the cheek. The clinical conditions related to this act are confined to the lachrymal gland, the conjunctiva, and the apparatus of conduc- tion thence to the nose. From the position of the lachry7nal yland^ it must follow that enlargement of this body from inflamma- tion, by a tumor or other cause, will compress the contents of the orbit, and tend to press the eyeball downward and inward. Subconjunctival infiltration will occur at the upper and outer portions of the conjunctival sac, and the edge of the swollen gland can be detected at the same point. The gland is liable to become the seat of cystic growths, which are caused by the stoppage of some of its ducts. The retention of tears in the conjunctival sac is secured by the tonicity of the muscle fibre, so that when this tonicity is impaired from any cause, the tears collect in the interval between the scleral and tarsal conjunctiva. This condition is especially noted in the lower eyelid of elderly persons. A moderate amount of retention of tears near the lower canali- culus is normal, and has received the name of the laciis lachrymarum. The position of the pimctum of the lower canaliculus, as already mentioned, is one favorable to the flow of tears from the lacus directly into the lachrymal sac. The sagging of the lower eyelid, inflammatory depositions, or the presence of any growth which presses upon the punctum from within, may prevent the normal adaptation of the punctum against the sclera. As a consequence, the tears cannot flow i-eadily into the canaliculus, and the efficiency of the lachrymal apparatus is impaired. The lachrymal sac, from its intimate union with the periosteum, is liable to involvement in scrofulous diseases of the nasal bones and of the orbit. Exten- sion of inflammatory processes from the walls of the sac to the subcutaneous connective is common, and in acute conditions rapidly involves the region of the lids and face. The amount of infiltration modifies the normal relation of the sac to the superficial parts, and it may become a matter of considerable difficulty to determine the true position of the sac. In connection with this the following rule may prove of value. To ascertain the position of the lachrymal sac, draw a line from the wing of the nose to the outer border of the supraorbital arch. Then bisect the middle of this line by a second, which will, when produced upward, cross the root of the nose. The EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCIV. Fig. 1. A horizontal section of the left eye (semi-diagram- matic). Fig. 2. The plan of construction of the crystalline lens. Fig. 3. The intraocular image of tlie optic disk, as seen witli the ophthalmoscope. Fig. 4. The plan of vascular supply of the eye. Fig. 5. A dissection of the orbit, exliibiting the manner of vascular supply.