620 OEGANS OF SENSE. — c>OO^C>Cx= The Nasal Bones are described on p. 138; and the Nasal Muscles on p. 249. The septal cartilage is not described. The Nasal Cartilages are—- The Lateral Cartilages. The Septal Cartilage. The Sesamoid Cartilages. The Lateral Cartilages are composed of the upper lateral and the lower lateral. Each upper lateral cartilage is triangular in form, and is continuous with the cartilage of the septum. The anterior margin of each cartilage is thicker than the posterior, and is attached to the ascending pro- cess of the superior maxilla and to the nasal bone of the corresponding side of the face. The outer (lateral) border is visible within the vestibule, where it is covered with mucous membrane. The loiver lateral cartilages enter into the construc- tion of the tip of the nose. They are distinct from the septum, and each cartilage is bent abruptly upon itself, the outer aspect of the angle being directed anteriorly. A depression often exists in the interval between the angles of the right and left lower lateral cartilages. One of the lines of bending—the inter- nal—inclines toward the septal cartilage; while the other—the external—-inclines toward the wing of the nose, and aids in defining the shape of the nostril. The inner line is much the smaller, and lies beneath the septal cartilage in contact with the similar pro- cess of the cartilage of the opposite side. It termi- nates abruptly at a point in advance of the anterior nasal spine of the superior maxilla. The outer line is broad and flat, and is subject to much variation in form. THE SESAMOID CARTILAGES. The sesamoid cartilages (accessory cartilages, epac- tal cartilages) are three or four in number. They are flat, subrounded nodules which are placed in the tough fibrous membrane of the wing of the nose. A conspicuous pair (vomerine cartilages) is placed one on either side of the nasal septum. In addition to the fibrous tissue and the sesamoid cartilages, the wings of the nose contain a quantity of fat and seba- ceous glands. Hair follicles are also sparsely devel- oped. THE INTEGUMENT. The integument is thin on the bridge and at the sides of the nose, where it is easily moved by the fingers. Toward the region of the cartilages the skin can be moved separately from the cartilages with difficulty, if at all. Two regions can be thus de- fined. The point at which the fingers are unable to raise a fold of skin from the external nose limits the region of the tip of the nose. Eemarks.—The cartilages constitute the main support of the lower part of the nose. Aquiline noses are apt to be associated with thin cartilages and with narrow nostrils; while small flat noses usually possess large rounded nostrils. The former variety is usually found in long narrow heads, and the latter in short high heads. The roof of the mouth is again usually more highly arched, and the alveolar ridges less curved in the former than in the latter. As a consequence of these facts, the external nose is of significance in correlation with the shape of the head and especially of the facial bones. In some in- dividuals the extremes of these tendencies are so pronounced as to lead to the localization of dis- eased action in the nasal chambers. With the aqui- line nose, nasal obstruction is often associated ; and with the small flat nose, lack of proper protection of the nasal chambers. THE nasal chambers. The Nasal Chambers (fig. 2, Plate XXIV.; fig. 152), as far as they are defined by the skeleton, have been described on pp. 152, 153. When the external nose remains in position, and the mucous membrane is intact, each nasal chamber may be divided into the nasal chamber proper and the vestibule. The Nasal Chambers proper. The Vestibule. The Nasal Chambers proper are defined by the turbinated bones laterally, and the maxillte and the palatal bones inferiorl}'. The Vestibule is defined by the nasal bones ante- riorly, and by the ascending processes of the superior maxillas, and the nasal cartilages externally. Inter- nally it is defined in part by the incisorial portion of the superior maxilla. Each vestibule has the shape of a flask, flattened on one side, with the neck prolonged, compressed, and directed upward. The inner wall is formed below by the inner arm of the lower latei'al cartilage, by a groove answering to the membranous septum, and above by the septal cartilage. The outer wall is formed by the outer arm of the lower lateral cartilage, by a depres- sion behind it defined by the fibro-adipose tissue of the wino-. The roof is continuous with that of the nasal O chamber. The floor is depressed a little below the level of that of the nasal chamber, so that such an instrument as an Eustachian catheter is best introduced by first