ORGANS OF SENSE. THE EYE. The Eye is described as composed of the eyeball, or the organ of vision, and its cqyjyenclayes. It is convenient to describe tlie appendages of the eye before the eyeball itself. The Appendages of the Eye. The Appendages of the Eye are— r The Eyelids. The Conjunctiva. I. -| The Eyebrows. The Capsule of Tenon. The Periocular muscles. II. The Lachrymal Apparatus. I. The EYiiLiDS and conjunctiva, and the EYEBROWS. THE EYELIDS AND CONJUNCTIVA. The Eyelids. The eyelids are special structures, composed principally of skin, conjunctiva, and inter- posed muscle and so-callec' cartilage, and are designed to cover the front of the eye, as in the act of winking and in sleeping. Under the head of the eyelids may be considered the following subjects : — The Skin. The Palpebral Fissure. The Palpebral Ligaments. The Tarsal Cartilages. The Meibomian Glands. The Eyelashes. The Muscles. The Skin of the Eyelids is thin, nearly translucent, and without subcutaneous fat. The skin of the 75 upper lid is derived from the brow, that of the lower lid from the cheek. The inner surfaces of the eye- lids are in contact with the palpebral conjunctiva. The eyelids secure their form, and in great measure their efficiency, through the tarsal cartilages. The Palpebral Fissure. The space between the eyelids is called the palpebral fissure. It is ata ellip- tical opening, varying in size in different individuals, and in the same individual at different times as in the changes of expression.—The angles of the fissure are called the cantlii. The outer canthus (exter- nal angle) is acute, and defined by the tarsal car- tilage ; the inner canthus (internal angle) is rounded and prolonged as a horizontal ml de-sac bevond the lachrymal puncta. The free edges of the eyelids form the upper and lower borders of the palpebral fissure, are flat, and come directly in contact in winking; they are furnished in front with eyelashes. The opposed borders of the inner canthus alone are rounded and nearly hairless. The Palpebral Ligament. The form of the eyelid is determined by the palpebral ligament (septum orbitale). This is a fibrous expansion continuous with the borders of the orbit. It is greatly strengthened toward the free edges of the palpebral fissure by the tarsal cartiki fjes (palpebral cartilage), which, although so separately denominated, are only differentiated portions of the palpebral ligament, being dense fibrous tissue with some admixture of elastic tissue. Each "cartilage" is thick at its free border, but thin at the upper. The upper tarsal cartilage is the larger, of crescentic shape, and measures nine lines long, and four lines wide in the centre. The lower tarsal car- tilage is nearly fusiform, or is ribbon shaped. The palpebral ligament lies as a compact layer two lines in length between the outer canthus and