THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY »oo^o^< OF THE NECK. 731 meningeal artery where it is liable to bleed from frac- ture of the skull. The fissure of Rolando, at and near the vertex, lies an inch and three-quarters to three inches behind the bregma (see p. 145). The distance is a little greater in males than in females. The lower limit of the fissure can be determined, according to Championiere, by extending a horizontal line backward from the base of the external angular process of the frontal bone, which is intersected by a vertical line two-and- tliree-quarter inches (seven cm.) in length. At the end of this line a vertical line is drawn, upon which, at a distance of one-and-a-quarter inch (three cm.), the lower limit of the fissure is reached.—The exter- nal part of the parieto-occipital fissure lies directly beneath the lambdoidal suture. The horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius extends parallel to the squa- nioso-parietal suture, about two inches above the zygomatic arch. The anterior extremity corresponds to the pte- rion (see page liS). The frontal lobe lies in front of tlie bregma. The parietal lobe lies between the line of the fissure of Rolando and the lambdoidal suture. The occipital lobe lies between the lambdoidal suture and the external occipital protuberance. The spheno- temporal lobe lies below a line produced posteriorly from the base of the external angular process of the frontal bone. The position of the region of Broca is indicated by a horizontal line extended backward from the base of the external angular process of the frontal bone two inches (five cm.) in length. The poste- rior part of the third frontal convolution is situated nine lines (two cm.) above the posterior end of this line. The lines mentioned being determined on the side of the head, the position of any desired portion of the cortex can be ascertained with an exactness sufficient for clinical purposes.' The shin of the face is, with the exception of that over the Buccinator muscle, the eyelids, and the bridge of the nose, adherent to the parts beneath. Hence the creasing and the wrinkling of the skin accompanying the contraction of the facial .muscles. Theeyelids are reniarkableinbeingfreefrom fat.—The skin can be pushed up or down some distance from the line of the lower jaw. It recovers readily from injury, and disfiguring scars are of infrequent occurrence. 1 The foregoing section is epitomized from Tillaux. (Traite d'Anat. Topqgr., 63.) A more elaborate account is framed by E. Gavoy (Atlas d'Anat. Topogr. du Cerveau, etc., Paris, 1882, 149). See also a succinct statement based on research by W. Turner (An Introduction to Human Anatomy, Edinburgh, 1877, 2GtJ). In the event, however, of the entire depth of the soft parts becoming involved in an ulcerative process (such as is seen in some forms of mercurial stomatitis, in cancrum oris, in burns of the third degree), facial scars are exceptionally dense and immobile; the pliable skin from adjacent places, as the skin of the neck, and even from the anterior chest-wall, maybe dragged up toward the cicatrized locality.' The following bursje, according to C. B. Nancrede,^ can be located in the region of the head and face; over external occipital protuberance; temporo-maxil- lary articulation; at lower border of the chin; be- hind the Zygomaticus Major; an extension of the bursa last named passes beneath the anterior border of the Masseter muscle and comes into relation with a second bursa placed close to the coronoid process. Under cer- tain circumstances these bursa? may extend to the base of the cranium. In the judgment of Nancrede,* cer- tain rare cysts of the cheek, which may extend to the base of the cranium, probably arise from an enlarge- ment of these bursae. THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE NECK. The Neck is divided by two lines drawn from the anterior borders of the mastoid processes downward to the shoulders into two sub-regions. That region in front of the lines is the anterior cervical region, and that back of them the posterior cervical region. The Anterior Cervical Region is divided into three regions: a median, and two lateral. The plan of these regions and their subdivisions is as follows:— f Supra Hyoid Region, j Sub-Maxillary Region. Median Cervical Region. ^ Infra-Hj'oid Region. I Sterno-Mastoid Sulcus. 1^ Carotid Triangle. !Retro-Maxillary Region. Sterno-Mastoid Region. Supra-Clavicular Region. The Median Cervical Region has been compared to the figure of a kite, i. e., to one composed of two trun- cated triangles, placed end to end, at their bases. The line of the hyoid bone represents the union of the bases of th^ triangles, the upper triangle forming the supra- hyoid reijion, and is defined above by the lower border of the inferior maxilla, and at the sides by the lines of the anterior bellies of the Digastric muscles. The ' See also Remarks on jip. 230, 252. 2 International Encyclopedia of Surgery, ii. 1882, 705. ^ Loc. cit.