606 ORGANS OF SENSE. chamber. The veins are tributary to the temporal vein in great part. The middle meningeal and pha- ryngeal veins, however, receive some of the blood. Two minute veins run parallel to the manubrium. Eemarks.—-The internal carotid artei'y may ulcer- ate into the middle ear through a carious condition of the carotid canal, and fatal hemorrhage ensue.' Toynbee^ describes a case of the same lesion in which death followed on the eleventh day after the first ap- pearance of the hemorrhage. The floor of the middle ear is contiguous with the internal jugular vein. In consequence of the ex- treme variability of the thickness of this floor, it should always be borne in mind, in clinical studies of the ear, that inflammation in the tympanic chamber can be transmitted to the internal jugular vein. The lateral sinus may be involved by the encroachment of diseased action to the sigmoid groove through the walls of the mastoid cells. The tegmen tympani or roof of the tympanum, while at all times thin, is, as above mentioned, often incomplete. Hyrtl has especially described these defects, and has directed attention to the contiguity of the dura mater and mucous membrane at such points. The student is cautioned against confounding these openings with the lesions of caries. It has been suggested by Gruber,* that forced inflation of the middle ear in the condition just named actually may induce submeningeal emphysema. In the foetus the cavity of the tympanum contains no air. The mucous membrane is thick, especially that upon the inner wall, and extends like a thick cushion to the smooth inner surface of the tympanic membrane. It is in every way probable that the band-like processes described by Urbantschitsch^ as passing from the vertical and horizontal limbs of the incus to the walls of the tympanum, as well as one which stretches from the tendon of the Tensor Tym- pani to the tympanic wall, are remains of this pre- natal connective tissue. In dissection of the ear, more particularly, care should be taken to distin- guish these structures from morbid products. The non-compact character of the osseous tissue to the outer side of the head of the malleus enables abscesses, originating in the tympanic chamber, to develop in the upper part of the meatus, and involve the outer ear without giving signs of their presence by any change in the tympanic membrane. « N. y. Med. Journ., 1874, xix. 38. « Med. Chir. Trans , xliii. 217. » (Estr. Zeitsfh. fur Prakt. Heilkunde, 1864, 54. < Urbantschitscli, Roy. Acad, of Sci., Vienna, .Jan. 1873. Several cases have been recorded in which caries involved the horizontal semicircular canal, so that products of inflammation passed out of the cavity of the tympanum into the vestibule, and thence by the cribriform bony lamellae to the internal auditory mea- tus. Pus may also enter the labyrinth by the oval or by the round window in destructive inflammation of the tympanic cavity. Perhaps the most frequent of all the lesions of the middle ear, creating disturbance in venous, arte- rial, or nerve-trunks in its immediate neighborhood, is that of the involvement of the tympanic wall of the facial canal. Many phases of facial palsy follow interference with this passage and its contents through aural catarrh and necrosis. (See also Facial Nerve, p. 532.) The quantity of mucus normally present in the middle ear is very small. It doubtless tends to gravi- tate to the floor, and there accumulates until it can reach the level of the orifice of the Eustachian tube, when it insensibly drains into the pharynx. After death the groove in the floor of the Eustachian tube is thus found occupied with mucus and desquamated ciliated epithelial cells. When the mucus is ab- normally abundant, it obliterates the chamber of the tympanum as an air-chamber. Its physiological value being thus destroyed, morbid sensations of a variety of kinds follow. If the fluid be evacuated, as usually occurs by rupture of the tympanic mem- brane, the normal functions of the parts are restored. But if any portion of it remains at a higher level than the orifice of the Eustachian tube, the ossicles become impeded in their action, and in the event of the mucus becoming inspissated upon them, deafness may ensue.—The motions of an abnormal quantity of mucus in the tympanic chamber, dependent on infla- tion of the chamber, may be studied in cases of unu- sually translucent membranes. In some cases of suspected fracture of the base of the skull, in which escape of a serous fluid from the middle ear was conspicuous, Prescott Hewett' ascer- tained that the fluid did not come from the mem- branes of the brain, but was doubtless derived from the mucous lining of the middle ear. Such cases tend to show not only that the presence of such a sign is not necessarily characteristic of fracture, but that the mucous membrane of the middle ear is capable of throwing off under certain conditions large quantities of a watery fluid. 1 Holmes's Syst. of Surg., ii. 133; also H. Gray, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vi. 22.