THE LIGAMENTS OF THELAEYNX. C'O0^<XX^ 683 ing and general distress always accompanied the act of swallowing while the patient was in the erect posi- tion. But it is probable that in both these cases the muscular fibres of the glottis may have become incompetent, either through destruction of their nerves, or by inflammatory infiltration and degene- ration. The base of the epiglottis lies deeply seated behind the hyoid bone, and, strictly speaking, cannot be ne- crosed or excised. When the epiglottis is mentioned in connection with clinical reports it is accepted that the free portion as seen without dissection is intended. The clinical relations of the deeper structures are chiefly to be studied in connection with the region of the hyo'd bone ratber than with the region of the larynx.—The resisting fibro-adipose tissue which lies between the hyoid bone and the base of the epiglottis may be the site of a bursa which may become suffi- ciently large to be brought to the attention of the surgeon.—The bursa over the hyoid bone may com- municate with the deeper bursa. The tendency to laryngitis after removal of the hyoldcan bursa has been repeatedly observed. The Ligaments of the Larynx. The Ligaments of the Larynx (Plate CIIL) are— The Thyro-Hyoid Ligament. The Crico-Tracheal Ligament. The Crico-Thyroid Ligaments. The Crico-Arytenoid Ligament. The Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament. The Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament. I'he Thjrro-Hyoid Ligament is composed of three parts, a median and two lateral. The median ligament extends between the whole of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage and the upper posterior border of the hyoid bone. It does not, therefore, simply occup}^ the space between the two structures named, but guides the body of the hyoid bone a little obliquely downward and forward. The membrane is thicker in the middle than at the sides. A well-di^fined bursa (infra-liyoid bursa) is intimately connected with the membrane. It ascends to occujiy the space between tlie membrane and the posterior border of tlie hyoid bone. A second bursa is occasionally seen between the great horn of the hyoid bone and the posterior border of tlie thyro-byoid ligament. The membrane is perforated on each side by the superior laryngeal artery and nerve. The lateral lit/aments are two in number, one for each side. Each is a short rounded yellow cord which connects the end of tlie great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid car- tilage. Each contains ordinarily a nodule of carti- lage (cartilago triticea). The Crico-Tracheal Ligament is a fibrous structure which unites the lower border of the cricoid cartilage with the first tracheal ring. This border is infre- quently continuous with the first ring either on the one side or on both. Tlie Crico-Thyroid Ligaments (crico-thyroid mem- brane). These are three in number, a median and two lateral. The median Ugavient is of the shape of a truncated cone, its base being attached to the cricoid cartilage at its upper border, and its apex to the lower border of the thyroid, and also to the vocal membrane within. It is stout and slightly convex in front, and is com- posed of yellow elastic tissue. It is pierced by one or more openings for the entrance of minute arteries and veins, which supply the laryngeal mucous mem- brane. It may, however, simply be crossed by an anastomotic arch derived from branches of the right and left superior thyroid arteries. Each lateral ligament presents a stout slip which extends from the cricoid, cartilage upward and inward, and an anterior slip which passes upward and outward. These slips serve to protect a capsular ligament lodged between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The Crico-Arytenoid Ligament. Anterior and pos- terior slips are present, of which the posterior is the stouter. The capsule of the crico-arytenoid joint is loose to allow extended motion of the arytenoid upon the cricoid cartilage. Luschka places the facets of this joint among the screw-like articular surfaces. The Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament. This extends from the hyoid bone upward and backward to the epi- glottis. The Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament extends between the thyroid cartilage and the front of the epiglottis. The space between the two ligaments last named and the epiglottis is occupied by a quantity of fat and fibrous tissue, and by a few glands. In addition to the ligament uniting the thj'roid cartilage and epiglottis, a second band is seen uniting the base of the epiglot- tis to the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage. The vocal memhrane. — Between the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage and the vocal process of each arytenoid, extends the Inferior Thyro-Arytenoid ligament, Avhich, when covered with mucous mem- brane, constitutes the true vocal cord of the laryngeal