OEGANS .OF SENSE. 608 c«cx;^o<c>=- pharynx. At the muscular portion of the tube one or two foliated elevations are found which project into the canal. These are best seen in transverse sections studied under low powers of the micro- scope. The osseous and cartilaginous portions of the tube, when at rest, exhibit a marked difference in the shape of the lumen. The bony portion is subrounded and fixed, while the cartilaginous is slit-like, and its cross section has a sigmoid form with the sides almost contiguous. The height of the pharyngeal orifice is about three and a half lines (Henle). The slightly contracted portion between the cartilaginous and osseous portions is called the islhmus of the Eusta- chian tube, and measures but one line in diameter. According to Dr. E. Cutter,' the isthmus may be absent in the aged. Bloodvessels.—Twigs are received from the as cending pharyngeal artery, as well as a petrosal bi'anch of the middle meningeal. A small twig also comes from the stylo-mastoid artery. Nerves.—These are derived from the fifth and seventh cranial nerves, and from the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve through a twig from its tympanic branch. A lymphatic network is found at the pharyngeal orifice which is continuous with the lymphatic system of the naso-pharyux. The lower end of the hook cartilage lying at tlie floor of the bony sulcus is more or less irregularly incised. Vascu- lar tufts of peri-chondrial connective tissue may penetrate the substance of the cartilage here and there. Structure While the cartilage is of the hyaline variety, examples of fibro-cartilaginous tissue are met with at various places, especially in the neighborhood of the borders. The pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube is commonly at the upper and outer part of the pos terior nares. It may, however, be opposite the mid- dle and sometimes even the lower part. The Eustachian tube is probably open at all times; that is to say, air can effect entrance through the upper portion of the lumen of the Eustachian tube, even when it is at rest. The degree of patulency of the pharyngeal end is determined by the Levator Palati, Tensor Palati, and Palati-Pharyngeus muscles. (See p. 259.) , The value of the position of the isthmus to the physician is made evident when it is remembered how small a quantity of mucus would be sufficient to plug up the opening. Upon such obstructions ensue disturbances of hearing, noises in the ear, etc. ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1872, p. 359. THE OSSICLES. The Ossicles (ossiculi auditis) (figs. 2 and 3, Plate XCVII., fig. 4, Plate XCVIII.) constitute the chain of little bones which extend across the middle ear. The ossicles are three in number— The Malleus. The Incus. The Stapes. Fis. 141. The three Ossicles of the Tympanum: the central hone is the Malleus, the left hand bone the Incus, and t^ie right-hand bone the Stapes. Malleus: a, head ; h, neck ; c, handle ; d, long, and c, short process. Incus : a, head ; 6, body ; e, upper process; <i, lower process; e, lenticular process. Stai)es ; a, head ; b, neck ; c, crus , tZ, base. The Malleus. The Malleus (the hammer or the mallet) is the most anterior and exterior of the ossi- cles. It lies between the tympanic membrane and the incus. It is of a club-shaped figure, the larger end being upward. The bone presents for examina- tion a head^ a nech, a handle, and two processes. The head is a smooth rounded enlargement of the bone, which is lodged in the upper portion of the chamber of the middle ear. It lies entirely above the tym- panic membrane, and constitutes nearly one-half of the entire malleus. The head is convex in form, and is free from attachment on all its surfaces excepting above the lower half of the inner surface, which is furnished with an elliptical articular facet for the body of the incus. The facet is two or three times as long- as it is wide, has its longest length obliquely placed to the axis of the malleus, and is furnished with swollen borders. The neck is a constricted portion of the malleus, which lies between the head and the handle. It is somewhat flattened from within outward, and lies just above the upper margin of the tympanic mem- brane. The chorda tympani lies to its inner side. The handle (manubrium) is a scythe-like extension of the malleus. It maintains a direction downward, with a slight inclination inward and forward. The handle is compressed from before backward, except toward the free end, where it is compressed from within outward. It is received within the middle layer of the tympanic membrane, and causes an ele- vation to appear upon the outer surface of the mem-