662 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. ■ ooo^ooc The lateral licjamenU^ right and left, are triangular reflexions from the Diaphragm to the liver. The left is the longer and more slender, and lies in front of the oesophagus, by which it is slightly impressed. The right ligament lies in front of the vena cava, and extends from the middle of the right border to the Diaphragm. The suspensory ligament is a falciform fold of the peritoneum, produced at a right angle from that membrane, where it joins the upper portion of the coronary ligament. It is broader in front than behind, and extends from the region of the umbili- cus upward along the sheath of the Eectus muscle. It lies between the dorsum of the liver and the parietes of the abdomen and vault of the Diaphragm, at the line answering to the division of the liver into the right and left lobes. The round liynment is the remains of the umbilical vein; it exists as a rounded cord which lies within the anterior border of the suspensory ligament, but leaves it to enter the umbilical groove of the longi- tudinal iissure, within which it lies. The remaining folds of the peritoneum are best described in connection with the Peritoneum, q. v. Structure The minute anatomy of the liver is exceed- ingly intricate. The following outline of its general plan is presented, both as to its bloodvessels and structure. The liver, after eliminating certain products from the portal blood, returns it to the general circulation by the hepatic vein. This, the essential blood transit through the organ, is supplemented by the liepatic artery, which supplies the liver with the blood of nutrition. The terminal branches of the hepatic artery are received within a capillary network Avhose blanches empty into the radicles of the hepatic vein ; the blood, therefore, from both the portal vein and the hepatic artery empties by means of this common network into the hepatic vein. Between the cells held in the mesiies of this network tlie bile-ducts begin. There are thus two distinct afferent trunks to the liver, the portal vein and the hepatic artery ; and two distinct efferent trunks, the hepatic vein and hepatic duct. At one point, i. e., in the capillary network, an element of each of these structures is found, where the afferent trunk terminates, and the efferent trunk begins. Tiie rcinute anatomy of the liver will now be examined in detail. Sur- rounding the portal vein, the hepatic anery, and the hepatic duct at the transverse fissure, is a connective-tissue membrane known as the capsule of Glisson. A layer of connective tissue can be demonstrated lying in the interval between the coronary ligaments, at the surface at which the liver is adherent to the Diaphragm, and between the folds of the lateral ligaments. The general surface of the liver is smooth, differing in this respect from other glands ; if, however, the surface be ex- amined with care, it is seen to be composed of minute sphe- roidal or polyhedral bodies called tiie lobules or acini of the liver. Each lobule measures transversely from one-half of a line to one line in diameter. The delicate spaces between the lobules are termed the interlobular spaces. The lobules, together with the blood- vessels and hepatic ducts, make up the substance of the liver Fig. 178. From a lobale of the liver of a rabbit, in wliicli blood and bile-vessels bad been injected, a, liver-cells; these are well shown as nucleated polygonal cells, each with a distinct reticulum; 6, bile capillaries between the liver- cells ; e, capillary bloodvessels. The walls of the bloodvessels witliin tlie liver are so thin that the liver is readily torn, tlie surfece resulting being irregular and mottled. Tiie centre of each lobule presents in a state of health a light yellow color, the border a dark brown siiade; so tliat the general ap[)earance of the cut surface of the organ is of a mottled shade of brown. The proper substance of the liver is composed of the hepatic cells (Fig. 176). These are of an irregular polyhedral form, and present a diameter of from j^'gg to ^^-^ of an inch. They are furnished witii a nucleus, and contain a soft granular paren- chyma and free oil globules. They are of a faint yellow color when isolated, but when massed yield the darkish- brown color characteristic of the liver. In tracing the course of the vascular trunks and hepatic ducts within the liver, it is found that tiie portal vein, as it entei"s at the transverse fissure, abruptly divides into a number of vessels lying within the so-called portal tracts or canals, which each contain a portion of tlie trunks of the portal vein, the heiiatic artery, and the bile-duct. These ascend nearly vertically tlirougii tiie substance of the liver, crossing the radicles of the hepatic vein at right angles. The branches of the latter vessel converge to the main trunk, which escapes at the posterior border of the liver to join the ascending vena cava. The arrangement of tiie two veins has been compared to two trees, wiiose trunks are at right angles, and whose terminal branches interlace. The hepatic artery and the liepatic duct accompany the portal vein through its general course, wiiile the hepatic vein is witiiout accompaniment. Tiie mechanism of the circulation of the liver can be best explained by directing attention to wliat takes [ilace in the lobules. Each lobule is a miniature liver, having at its per- iphery between the lobules branches of tiie portal vein and