THE EEGION OF THE HEART, ETC. 7G7 1 Foster and Balfour, 1. c, 63. the undifterentiated tissue of this region would be apt to influence the entire uro-genital tract. Kidneys.—For variations of the kidneys, see p. 700. THE REGION OF THE HEART AND THE VISCERAL ARCHE.S. The development of the heart and the visceral arches can be conveniently associated. "At tlie extreme end of tlie embryo, wliere the blas- toderm begins to be folded back, the mesoblast is not cleft, and here consequently there is neither somutopleure nor splanchnopleure ; but at a point a very little further back the cleavage begins, and the somatopleure and splanch- nopleure diverge from each other. They thus inclose between them a cavity which rapidly increases behind. Botii folds are turned round again and then course once more forward over the umbilical vesicle. As they thus return (the somatopleure having meanwhile given off the fold of the amnion) they are united again to form the uncleft blastodermic investment of the umbilical vesicle. It is in this cavity, which from its mode of formation the reader will recognize as a part (and indeed at this epoch it constitutes the greater part) of the general pleuro-peritoneal cavity, that the heart is formed. " It makes its appearance at a point where the splanch- nopleure folds tui'n round to pursue a forward course, and by the end of the first half of the second day has acquired somewhat the form of a flask witli a slight bend to tlie right. At its anterior end a sligiit swelling marks the future bulbus arteriosus, and bulging behind indicates the position of the auricles. It is hollow, and its cavity opens below and behind into two vessels called the omphalo- mesaralc veins (omphalo-mesenleric) which pass outwards in the folds of tlie splanchnopleure at nearly right angles to the axis of the embryo. The anterior extremity of the heart is connected with the two aortie. " Soon after its formation the heart begins to beat, its pulsations are at first slow and rare, beginning at the venous and passing on to the arterial end. It is of some interest to note that its functional activity commences long before the cells of wiiich it is composed show any distinct differentiation into muscular or nervous elements. To provide channels for the fluid thus pressed by the contractions of the heart, a system of tubes has made its appearance in the mesoblast both of the embryo itself and of the vascular and pellucid areas. In front the single tube of the heart bifurcates into two primitive aortce, which pass from its under to its upper side, the two forming together a sort of incomplete arterial collar imbedded in the mesoblast of the gut. Ar- rived at the upper side of the beginning of the alimentary canal they turn sharply round, and run se|)arate but parallel to each other backwards towards the tail, in the mesoblast on each side of the notocliord immediately under the pro- tovertebra;. About half way to the hinder extremity each gives off at right angles to the axis of the embryo a large branch, the oinphalo-mesenterlc, which, passing outward, is distributed over the pellucid and vascular areas, the main trunk of each aorta passing on with greatly diminished calibre towards the tail, in which it becomes lost."' The aortic bulb yields a number of branches which form in the embryo, the system of the aortic or branchial arches. The study of the variations of these arches has already been considered (p. 318). In this place it is designed to show that they are as- sociated in turn with the structures of the head rather than with the trunk, and that as the heart itself is originally a cephalic structure so the defects of this organ and those of the branchial system of blood- vessels should not only be studied together but should embrace the study of the visceral arches as well. The Visceral arches (branchial arches) are five pairs of buds which appear as buds from the base of the skull, and which project downward on either side of the oval and pharyngeal spaces to join at the median line of the neck. Each arch carries a branch of the aortic system, and is most intimately associated in the plan of the arrangement of the system of vessels in the foetus and in some batrachians. In this manner the development of the skull is seen to be in part correlated with the development of the heart and is part of the great vessels. " It must be borne in mind that, especially in the early stages of development, owing to tlie very unequal growth of different parts, the relative position of the various structures is continually shifting. This is very well seen in the in- stance of the heart. At its first appearance, the heart is lodged immediately beneath the extreme front of the ali- mentaiy canal so far forward as to underlie that portion of the medullary canal whicii will form the brain. It is, in fact, at that epoch a part of the head. From that early position it gradually recedes farther and farther backward, until, at the end of the third day, a considerable interval is observed between it and the actual head. In other words, a distinct neck has been formed, in*which most important changes take place. " Tiie neck is distinguished from the trunk in which the heart now lies by the important feature that in it there is no cleavage of the mesoblast into somatopleure and splanch- nopleure, and consequently no pleuro-peritoneal cavity. In passing from the exterior into the alimentary canal, the three layers of the blastoderm are successively traversed without any breach of continuity save such as is caused by the cavities of the bloodvessels. In this neck, so constituted, there appear on the third day certain fissures or clefts, the visceral or branchial clefts. Tliese are real clefts or slits passing right through the walls of the throat, and are placed