THE VULVA. cx>o^o<:x> 70 C> The parts so included are :— The Mons Veneris. The Labia Majora. The Labia Minora. The Clitoris. The Glands of Bartholin. The balk of the Mons Veneris is due to a cushion of fat covering the pubis. It is continuous above with the skin of the abdomen, and below with the labia majora. The Labia Majora is the name given to a pair of divergent folds of skin and inclosed fatty tissue form- ing the lateral boundary of the vulva. These folds are thicker above than below, and are commonly cov- ered on the outer side for the most part with a sparse growth of hair. The lower ends terminate at about an inch in advance of the anus at a small transverse fold termed the commissure^ which is at once the poste- rior boundary of the vulva and the anterior boundary of the female perineum. Directly in front of the commissure lies a shallow depres- sion, which has received the name of ihe fossa naviciilarls. In advance of this is a delicate transverse fold known as the fourchette. The Labia Minora (nymphse) are two thin muco- dermic folds, lying directly within the labia majora. They arise from the sides of the prominence of the cli- toris with the integument covering with which they are continuous. They terminate below at the sides of the orifice of the vagina. Luschka describes the nym|)hte as forming a small trans- verse fold posteriorly ; this, in his opinion, is iha fourchette, which would thus be removed from the labia niajoia. See, also, infra, in quotation from M. Duncan. The vestihule is a term restricted to that portion of the vulva bounded laterally by the nymphoe, above by the clitoris, behind by the fourchette, and within and behind by the upper margin of the orifice of the vagina, by the hymen, or by its remains. The Clitoris is a symmetrical organ representing a rudimentary penis. It is composed of a pair of cav- ernous bodies each of which arises from the descend- ing rami of the pubis and the ascending ramus of the ischium. These bodies are held together anteriorly by a fibrous membrane, analogous to a rudimentary sep- tum pectiniforme. The clitoris measures one-and-a-half inch in length, and can be felt beneath the skin cov- ering. The free end of the organ lies in a cap-like fold of skin which has been compared to the prepuce and the inclosed part to the glans penis. No such structure, however, as a glans exists in the clitoris. It consists only of the cavernous bodies. The Glands of Bartholin (vulvo-vaginal glands, glands of Duverney), are two in number. Each is a racemose gland about a third to half an inch in diameter, and of a rounded or reniform out- line, and is yellowish-red in color. It is situated between the cellular tissue of the vaginal wall and the Constrictor muscle of the vagina, and behind the lower part of the spongy body. The duct, about half an inch in length, passes forward to open between the nymphse and the hymen. The glands secrete a mucoid fluid, and are most active during the child-bearing period. The mucous membrane of the vulva is smooth, pink in color, and covered with squamous epithelium. It possesses numerous simple racemose gland folli- cles, on the inner side of the nymphse and about the urethral orifice. Sebaceous glands are found beneath the fold of skin at the free end of the clitoris, on the outer side of the nymphaB, and upon the labia majora. The papillse of the mucous surface are as a rule well developed, and are abundant upon the inner surfaces of the nymphce, where they assist in the sexual im- pression. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the vulva are derived for the most part from branches of the internal pudic; a superficial branch is derived from the superficial external branch of the pudic for the outer parts. The veins communicate with the hulh^ with the vaginal plexus, and thence for the most part with the obtura- tor veins. Some of the superficial blood returns by the external pudic vein to the femoral vein. Nerves.—The nerves are branches of the ilio-in- guinal and genito-crural nerves of the lumbar plexus. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics join the inguinal and the internal iliac glands. Eemarks.—The labia majora, receiving as they do both bloodvessels and nerves from distinct sources, may be involved in common with the parts relating to the lower limbs or with the pelvic organs. The en- gorgement of the lymphatics of the lower extremity, as in " milk-leg," may involve the vulvar lymphatics, while epithelioma of the labia majora will involve by extension the lymphatics of the pelvis.—The clinical relations of the nymphie and the clitoris are entirely with the pelvis. The peculiarities of the vulvar and vaginal orifices before and after the birth of a child are well described by M. Duncan. Since these conditions have exact clinical values, the remarks of this writer arc copied in full. "In the primipara the outer or larger margin of