involve these structures their origin may be traced 9 Pbil. Sue. Trans., Ixxx.,179(1, Vt^ ; also Ibid., Ixxxix., 1799, ISO. PARTS WHICH ARB ARRANGED <xJO^§<XS>-i IN SERIAL ORDER. I i 6 The folds may unite at the posterior ends on]y so as to exhibit the parts of the pelvis in common (Pygo- pagus). Each of the above malformations has but a single umbilical cord. As in the case of duplication of p^arts joined at the head an attempt at rotation is surmised to have occurred, so in the remaining varieties the relative positions of the two individuals can be explained by referring to the same tendency on the part of one or both embryos. The cause of the rotation would ap- pear to be the contraction of the yolk-mass. This, of necessitv, takes place toward the abdomen ; and the contraction toward the abdominal space of a double embryonic mass, it is assumed, may change the position of the individuals. If the individuals are free in front, but fixed behind, the contraction causes irregular attempts at rotation to occur about the fixed point. Thus the anterior ends of the two trunks will either turn slightly away one from the other, and will place tlie heads in a position with the occiputs opposed, or they will so far diverge as to place themselves in the same line. If the embrvos are united at the middle of the trunk the bodies re- main variously fixed at the thorax and abdomen, being fixed at the thorax and abdomen in such wise as to cause the body to behave to the yolk as that of a single individual, and no material change of posi- tion of the free parts is practicable. Malformed Limhs. The limbs may be looked upon as buds or peripheral outgrowths from the trunk. It follows that in an arrest of development the proxi- mal portions will be rudimentary or absent, while the distal parts may be perfect. In this way stunted limbs with well-developed hands or feet projecting near the trunk are formed. Excess or diminut'on ol' the number of toes or fin- gers is of relatively frequent occurrence. The excess is ordinarily an example of peripheral budding, while the diminution is a restriction due to some deep-lying cause affecting the tarsus or carpus of the indiv'dual. It may be held as an axiom that the carpus and tarsus determine the form and arrangement of the fingers and toes. Every description of a specimen of malfor- mation of the hand or foot sliould be accompanied by an account of the dissection of the carpus or tarsus. It has been already seen that supernumerary fin- gers or toes are, as a rule, examples of peripheral budding. They may be held to be such when they do not involve the carpus or tarsus; but when they to some malformation of central instead of perii)heral marginal elements. Thus, instead of the first or fifth finger being duplicated, the third may be increased in size—the supplemental third finger involving the car- pus between the os magnum and the trapezium. It is evident from such a descript'on that a mere super- ficial examination of the limbs would give no clue to the nature of the defect. Neglect of this simple precaution has led to much confusion in the descrip- tion of defects of the hands and feet, notably in those instances where attempts have been made to explain malformations of excess by reversion to some ptirtially obliterated ancestral tendency.* (2) PARTS WHICH ARE ARRANGED IN SERIAL ORDER. The presence of a congenital defect in one portion of the vertebral column should induce the observer to make careful examinations of the entire vertebral series, including the bones of the cranium, as far for- ward, as the body of the ethmoid bone. The central nervous system should also be inspected when this is practicable. The manner in which the sternum develops sug- gests that an attempt is made in this bone for the several centres of ossification to be arranged in serial order, and in pairs. Tliis arrangement is subject to much modification, but sufficient data exist to war- rant the conclusion that a deformation in a portion of the sternum coexists with some minor variation or defect in another portion, and that the entire bone is more or less unusually formed. The parts arising along the lines of the visceral arches are liable to malformations which embrace the entire development of the arch and often of related parts. (See p. 770.) Exaggeration of the oral fissure (Macrostoma) is not a single malformation, but, as found by A. Thompson,^ is associated wiih defects of the auricle, and atrophy of the lower jaw. In a case of cleft palate, recorded by E. Home,^ the lower jaw was abortive, and the external meatus narrowed. Tlie teeth are closely related structures whose variations conform to the rule that the malformations of serial homologous bodies are related one to another. (See p. 633.) ■ See Otto, Moiistrorum sexcentorum descript. Anat., tab. xx.- xxvi. ; Miis^e Dupuytren ; Ainmon, Die aiigeborenen Chir. kranklieit. der Menscben, Berlin, 1840, tab. xxii. ; Meckel, Archiv fiii- Anat., xxxvi. 2 Edin. Montbly Journ., vii. 1874.