658 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. OOC^O<x= quence, a large abscess was developed. The condition was successfully treated by dividing the External Sphincter. In another instance, a penetrating wound of the rectum, produced by a stick forced up the rectum, caused gluteal abscess, from which escaped portions of the offending agent. In females, the lower portion of the rectum may be exposed by forcing the recto- vaginal septum backwa7'd and downward by digital pressure. In this way the anterior wall of the rec- tum can be temporarily forced through the anus, "like the linger of a glove," and thoroughly ex- plored. In order that this procedure should be eft'ec- tive, it is best to rupture the External Sphincter by forcible dilatation with the fingers, a procedure origi- nally proposed by Recamier and revived by W. H. Van Buren, of New York.' The terminal portion (anal portion) of the rectum is in intimate relation with the cutaneous structures. It lies directly behind th^ prostate gland at first, but is soon deflected thence downward and backward, leaving between its anterior wall and the membra- nous portions of the urethra a triangular space. The anus, being surrounded by the External Sphinc- ter, is closely corrugated. It is slightly relaxed in the act of bearing down, so that the finger can be best inserted for examination of the rectum at such a time. Dr. Marion Sims^ recommends that the patient be placed in the genu pectoral position, a posture cer- tainly favoring the removal of all visceral pressure, and relaxing the External Sphincter. Dr. T. Gaillard Thomas^ has suggested a similar procedure for making topical applications in rectal ulcers from chronic dys- entery. A healthy anus is well drawn up in the groove between the buttocks, and is, when the patient stands in the erect position, directed slightly back- ward. The finger being introduced meets with but moderate resistance. Turning the finger forward and backward, a capacious chamber is detected beyond the anterior wall of which lie the membranous portion of the urethra and the prostate gland. An ischio-rectal abscess, however formed, is the precursor of a fistulous orifice either in the rectum or in the perineum. If the rectum be examined before the abscess opens, the bulging wall of the collection can easily be detected. This is especially noticeable in fat subjects, and it is with them that the collection is apt to open in the rectuin, since this limiting wall 1 H. Storer, Araer. Jouni. of Obstetrics, 1868, i. 369. ^ Diseases of Rectum. 3 N. Y. Med. .Touin., 1875. is the least resisting. When the rectum is contracted and the surrounding parts defective in fat the integu- ment is the least resisting, and the abscess-opening appears externally. As an evidence that a knowledge of the anatomy of this region is essential to a true conception of its pathological processes the fact may be cited that anal fistule sometimes penetrates the fibres of the External Sphincter or Levator Ani muscles, or enters the rectum between this muscle and the Internal Sphincter.' The modern French writers assert that anal fistule always exists near the anus. It certainly may be expected to be found at or about the External Sphincter, although no conclusion with respect to this point can be con- sidered as exact. The anatom'cal features of each case of fistule must be separately considered. The so-called horse-shoe fistule, having a semicircular disposition around the bowel, but with a single opening into it, also the various forms of fistule confined to the coats of the rectum and particularly to the space between the cir- cular and longitudinal muscular layers, are occasion- ally seen. They have been traced as far as the sigmoid flexure. In rare instances the opening of communication between an ischio-rectal abscess and the bowel is so large that the feces have been forced through and have formed an ingredient of the ischio-rectal collection. Of this exceedingly dangerous f(.)rm of fistule, L. A. Sayre^ has described a good example in the person of an adult male, who, while suffering from a fistule on the left side, was subjected to the risks attending a fecal abscess occupying both ischio-rectal fossas. The pressure to which the surrounding parts were sub- jected caused denudation of the tuberosities of the ischium and the left sacro-sciatic ligaments and coc- cyx, the latter in addition being detached from the sacrum. The position of a fistulous orifice near the rectum should never be accepted as an evidence of rectal disease. It is certainly a probable inference that the rectum is involved if the opening is behind or at the sides of the anus, but an improbable inference if it is in front, since such openings in the latter locality are more apt to be a complication of peri-urethral or prostatic abscess, or even of pelvic inflammation. The practical points worthy of attention in study- ing the coats of the rectum relate chiefly to the mucous membrane and the space between the cir- cular and the longitudinal muscular coats. 1 Diseases of Rectum, Holmes's Sj'st. of Snrg., 199, 202. 2 New York Journ. Med., 1854, 178.