THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 720 OOO^OCx^ — called ligaments Tlie body and cervix also differ with respect to the peritoneum. The necessities of the growth of the pregnant uterus require hose but direct attachments laterally with the broad ligament, while the peritoneum is only indirectly related to the cervix uteri. (2) In pregnancy the longitudinal axis of the body of the uterus inclines slightly to the left (a tendency seen even in the virgin state), at the same time tliat it is inclined upward and forward, perpendicularly to the plane of the superior pelvic strait. Thus it will be seen tliat the longitudinal axis is not a straight, but a curved line, having its concavity directed forward. According to Kohlrausch, the axis of the vaginal portion of tiie uterus at the time of menstruation is concave backward, tlius making the line sigmoid The junction of the body with the cervix, it will be recalled, is marked by the isthmus in the interior, and by a creasing of tlie peritoneum on the anterior portion of the periphery A moderate degree of anteflexion is normal The position of the uterus forms an obtuse angle with that of the vagina. Hence the lower end of the uterus is tilted against tlie poste- rior wall of the passage last named. Bloodvessels.—The arteries are supplied by the uterine artery, the ovarian artery, and a small branch of the epigastric artery. The veins are tributary to the uterine plexus of veins (utero-vaginal plexus). A portion of the blood is returned by the ovarian veins. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the uterine plexus of nerves. Lyrrrphatics.—-The lymphatics join the glands (hy- pogastric glands) situated about the branches of the internal iliac artery.' Variations Tiie uterus may be absent, the Fallopian tubes uniting in a transverse band of muscle tissue, in the position of the normal uterus. Tlie organ may be directly continuous with the vagina without the inter- vention of the OS The organ may be composed of two long fusiform chambers, uniting in a siiort and imperfect body (uterus bipartitis), as in the mammals generally; when this disposition is but faintly expressed, the uterus is said to be arcuated; when pronounced, yet tlie two horns united by the matrix, the uterus is said to be anvil-shaped or incudi.form ; when one horn is alone developed, it is said to possess a single horn, and to constitute the variety of uterus unicornis. When the uterus is of normal shape, but the cavity di- vided in part by a septum extending from the fundus, tiie organ is said to be subseptate, and to constitute the variety of uterus subseptus; when the septum above mentioned is complete, the organ is said to be septate, and to form tiie variety uterus septus or uterus bi-locularis The uterus and vagina may be rarely duplicate throughout, while two See J. Hoggan and F. E. Hoggan, .Tourn. of Anat. and Physiol., 2, xvi. 51. ovaries, two Fallopian tubes, and two round ligaments exist as in the normal state. The malformation known as the two-horned or bifid uterus consists of the angles of conjunction of the fundus with the body being greatly exaggerated. This occurs at the expense of the fundus, which, under such conditions, never develops. Tlie circular muscular fibres suiTOunding the orifices of the Fallopian tube are thus separated by an open space. The condition is normal in mammalia below the man-like apes. Commonly limited to the body, the condition may ex- tend to the cervix, but rarely reaches the vagina. Deces describes and figures a bifid uterus, one horn of which rup- turing, from retained menstrual fluid, induced fatal perito- nitis. Should pregnancy occur in one of" two horns of a uterus whose general development is imperfect, a class of symptoms may arise closely resembling those of tubal preg- nancy. The bicornuate uterus retains the embryo in one of its cavities, the pregnancy usually advancing normally to term. In studying specimens of the kind the observer is enabled to discriminate between it and a tubal gestation by file position of the round ligament. If it lies to the lateral side of the sac the foetus has been retained in the horn of the uterus; if, on the other hand, the ligaments lie to the median side, the fojtus has been retained in the Fallopian tube. Remarks.—The uterus is so mobile that it can be throv^^n forward by a distended rectum, backward by a distended bladder, or it can be brought down to the plane of the vulvar outlet by gentle traction, a position favorable for some practical purposes, such as operations upon the cervix uteri.—The organ may be forced down by its own weight, constituting prolapsus uteri, as is commonly the case, or it may actually form a hernial projection, forming the so- called hysterocele. It has been found as one of the contents of a femoral or inguinal hernial sac, and may be forced up by pressure from below, or deflected from side to side, or from before backward. In marked retroversion the os may actually compress the urethra, as in anteversion, or it may lie toward the sacrum.—The separate physiological and mechanical value of the body and cervix will often express itself in morbid conditions. Thus the body, being, it may be, imperfectly involuted from the proportions of ges- tation, may sag forward or backward. Tumors may so press upon the organ as to attenuate the union be- tween the body and the cervix. It may be squeezed between an haematocele in Douglas's pouch and the bladder. Or a distended bladder may throw it toward the sacrum. The last-mentioned fact is one of great practical importance when it is desired to examine the position of the body of the uterus through the ab- dominal wall. The previous complete removal of the contents of the bladder facilitates the examination.