732 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. —^ lower triangle, known as the ivfra-hyoid ret/ion, is defined below at the sides, by the median borders of the Sterno-Cleido Mastoideus muscles, as they approach the sternum. The Supra-IIyoid Region (hyo-mental) is best seen when the head is thrown back, but best examined by palpation when the head is brought forward. It de- fines the space between the lower jaw and the hyoid bone. The Sub-Maxillary Region. When the head is slightly inclined forward, this region lies on a nearly horizontal plane, and its lower limit is readily de- fined, for in this position the body of the hyoid bone can be readily felt beneath the skin. The central part of the region answers nearly to the position of the Genio-Hyoid muscles. These muscles can be felt to contract beneath the finger in the first act of deglutition and in the pronunciation of the letter V. The position of the sub-maxillary salivary glands, and not infrequently the superficial sub-maxillary lym- phatic glands, and the anterior bellies of the Digas- tric muscles, can be determined.—The skin of the sub- maxillary region is loose to permit the free motion of the head and of the lower jaw. It is more fixed at the border of the under surface of the chin than elsewhere. At the sides two conspicuous folds of skin are seen in the aged. The skin can be drawn up toward the face, and in the cicatrices resulting from burns the tractile force may be sufficient to depress the lower jaw. The sub-raaxillary region is of surgical interest, since it is here that the floor of the mouth is opened in amputation of the tongue, and that pus gravitates from deep-seated abscess of the lower jaw. The Infra-Hyoid Region (jugular region, nearly) in a strict sense represents the front of the neck when the face is directed forward. Beneath the skin can be felt the prominence of the thyroid carti- lage. In females and in children the prominence of the thyroid cartilage is absent, and in the former may be lost in the even convex surface of the neck. In addition to the foregoing are noticed the cri- coid cartilage, the thyroid body, with its incisure, and the beginning of the trachea. The upper border of the thyroid cartilage can be determined, as w'ell as the space between this cartilage and the hyoid bone. The lower part of the infra-hyoid region (sulcus sterno- mastoideus) is defined by the median borders of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscles at the sides, and the supra-sternal notch below. The parts lying within these boundaries are not, as a rule, detected from without. They represent the trachea, fascia, and fat. In children the innominate artery can be felt pulsating in this space.—The shin of the infra-hyoid region is very movable to enable the laryngeal and tracheal apparatus free play of motion. Care should be taken to fix the skin in making incisions in this region. This is more particularly of importance in the per- formance of tracheotomy. The branches of the ex- ternal jugular and anterior jugular veins are con- spicuous in this, and in the lateral cervical regions. Conspicuous among the superficial structures of the neck which may have clinical interest, is the bursa surrounding the tendon of the Digastric muscle. Bursse are also lodged between the skin and the neighborhood of the thyroid cartilage; these have received the names of ante-thyroid, infra-hyoid, and supra-hyoid bursas. The Sterno - Mastoid Sulcus (carotid region, nearly).—A shallow groove lies between the Ster- no-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle, the larynx, and the trachea. It is continuous above with the retro- maxillary fossa, and below is lost in the jugular region. That part of the recess which lies between the median and lateral structures of the neck is of special interest, since it transects the line of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, and has received the name of the carotid triangle; and that part which lies between the trachea and the median border of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus has received the name of sterno-mastoid sulcus proper. The Carotid Triangle (trigonum carotideum) is broader and deeper than the remaining portion of the groove, and corresponds to the position of the com- mon carotid artery, as this vessel is about to divide into the internal and external carotid arteries. The term carotid triangle is derived from the circumstance that in dissection the median border of the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoideus, the line of the posterior belly of the Digastric, and the line of the anterior belly of the Omo- Hyoid muscles define it. The triangle, in a study of surface-anatomy, is chiefly interesting for the marked pulsation which is distinguishable here. In many conditions of health, particularly in the anemic condi- tion of females, which verge toward or ai"e identified with exophthalmic goitre, the pulsations are very de- cided. It is here that the arteries are known occa- sionally to enlarge in calibre (see p. 366), and it would be an interesting point to determine, in sub- jects in which such enlargements occur, the ante- mortem conditions with which the swellings were coincident.