598 OEGANS OF SENSE. =XX>^C<X= choroid membrane, with which it has been recently identi- fied. The pigment-layer is evolved from the same primordial structures which yield the remaining retinal structures. Variations—In brunettes and negroes the quantity of pigment-cells is increased. In ophthalmoscopic examina- tion of such subjects the eye-ground is dusky. In blondes and albinos the opposite conditions obtain, and the eye- ground, owing to the small quantity of pigment-cells, is of a delicate pink color. The Fibres of Miiller, known also as the sustentacular tissue, constitute the framework analogous to the connective- tissue stroma of other organs. By the apposition of the broad surface of their conical basal portions, an apparent continuous structure is formed—the so-called membrana limitans interna, situated within the layer of nerve-fibres. At the junction of the layer of rods and cones with the outer nuclear layer, the membrana limitans externa is simi- larly formed by the termination of the off'sets of the frame- work. Some of the cells of the inner nuclear layer are seen as appendages to the fibres of Miiller. The macula lutea. The structure of the retina at this spot measures one-tenth of an inch. It is of a yellow color, due, it is thought, to a fluid (believed by Luschka to be of a fatty character) filling in the interior between the cones. About the centre of the macula is the pit-like depression called the fovea centralis. The cones alonl^are present over this spot, the rods being wanting, while the remaining layers here at- tain their greatest tenuity. Bloodvessels.—The retinal vessels, according to Hyrtl, are derived from— Tlie artery of the sheath. The artery between the neurilemma and medulla of the optic nerve. The special central artery, -which sends off loops upon the retina, and minute branches into the fovea centralis. The blood reaches the layer of rods and cones, none going beyond the inner nuclear layer. The "veins resemble capillaries in structure, their walls consisting of a single layer of epitlielioid cells." The structure of the ora serrata and pars ciliaris con- sists only of "elongated columnar cells with the pigmentary layer placed externally." The vessels, as seen by the ophthalmoscope in the living eye, present some distinctive features. Thus the veins of the "eye-ground" pulsate, while the arteries are without pulsation. The contours, both of the arteries and the veins, are imperfectly defined. The chief source of the images of both sets of vessels is the blood-currents themselves. Eemarzs.—The retina after deatb assumes a ground-glass or milky appearance. The macula lutea becomes inconspicuous, and a pair of transpa- rent folds {plica centralis) is seen on either side of the macula lutea, forming a pit-like depression—the fovea centralis, which, from the thinning of the retina at this point, permits the pigment-layer to be- come visible through it. Fig. 138. From a vertical sectioa through the macula lutea and fovea centralis, (t, Nerve-fibres; b, gauglion-cells ; c, inner molecular layer ; d, inner nuclei; e, outer molecular layer ; /, cone-fibres ; cones. In addition to the remarks made under the head of the choroid membrane, it may be said that the retina may be detached from the choroid membrane over large surfaces, matous tumors. The retina is a favorite seat for glio- THE VITREOUS BODY. The Vitreous Body (vitreous humor) is a jelly-like, transparent structure occupying the posterior four- fifths or two-thirds of the eyeball, to the shape of which it conforms, except in front. Here the sides gently curve inward, forming a central dish-like de- pression for the lens. The vitreous body is in direct contact with the re- tina, but is firmly held to the imrs ciliaris retinas, and also to the ciliary body. This attachment constitutes the zone of Zinn (ciliary zone, suspensory ligament), and is of great importance, since it not only gives general support to the vitreous body, but" yields points of attachment to the capsule of the lens. So intimate is this connection, that attempts at separation bring away with the vitreous body particles of the pigment-layer of the pars ciliaris retinae. When thus detached, the vitreous body is seen to be marked by a series of raised folds and intermediate depressions (ciliary portion of the vitreous body), answering to the processes of the ciliary body. The limiting surface of the vitreous body is called the hyaloid membrane. It is smooth, of great deli-