THE EETINA. . cx>o^oo<= 597 nerve, and at least one of its layers is prolonged from this structure. It is marked posteriorly at the point of entrance of the nerve by the optic disk, and in Section of the ciliary muscle, showing atsence of the circular fibres of the ciliary muscle in myopia 1, the radiate fihres of the ciliary muscle ; 2, the sclera; 3, the section of a vessel; 4, the ciliary processes ; 5, the iris. front by a number of radiate folds—the ora serrata. Between the ora serrata and the ciliary body is a thin membrane, the pars ciliaris retinae, which, accord- ing to Hyrtl, is continuous with the ciliary body and uvea. The optic disk is not in the axis of the organ, but lies a little to the inner side. At a point corre- sponding to the axis is a small oval spot, the macula lutea, which measures one-twentieth of a line in diameter. Structure The retina is a membrane of great com- plexity. It is composed of eight layers, associated with a delicate framework termed the fibres of Miiller. Counting from the inner or centric side, we recognize— Internal limiting membrane. 1. The nerve-fibre layer. 2. The ganglionic layer. 3. The inner molecular layer. 4. The inner nuclear hiyer. 5. Tiie outer molecular layer. 6. The outer nuclear layer. (These constitute the " granular layer" of some authors.) External limiting membrane. 7. The layer of rods and cones. 8. The pigment-layer. (Tiiis constitutes the pigment-layer of the choroid coat of some authors.) (1) The nerve-fibre layer is derived from the fibrils of tlie optic nerve. It is composed of non-meduUated filaments having the thickness of brain fibres, which are arranged in flat wavy bundles directed forward. It is almost wanting at the macula lutea. (2) The ganglionic layer consists of large ganglionic cells. The processes of the cells are so arranged that one un- branched filament commonly passes obliquely inward, and is lost within the nerve-layer. Others pass vertically out- ward and are lost within the inner molecular layer. Tiie cells are most numerous at the macula lutea. (3) The inner molecular layer is almost structureless. It is much thicker than the outer molecular layer, and is composed of numerous minute granular masses imbedded in a structureless matrix. (4) Tlie inner nuclear layer is made up of three to four rows of cells, whose nuclei are so large as to give the im- pression that they are free, but in each cell, a cell-wall can be detected, with cell contents at either end of the oval nucleus. (5) The outer molecular layer (internuclear) resembles the inner of the same name, but is much tiiinner. (6) The outer nuclear layer is distinguished from the inner by its association by continuity with the rods and cones, its cells fulfillina-the function of axial supports. Those beneath the cones^resent a double contour-line on each, while the others, continuous with the rods, present a single contour line and are filamentous. The nuclei in this layer present a transversely banded appearance. Fig. 137. Portions of the layer of rods and cones seen from without, fr, microscopic appearance of the outer surface of the retina over the yellow spot, where there are only cones ; I, appearance of the retina near the yellow spot—a single circle of rods surrounding each cone ; m, appearance of the middle of the retina, a large number of the rods surrounding each cone. In all three figures the larger rings represent the cones, and the smaller ones the rods seen endwise. (7) The layer of rods and cones (.Jacob's membrane, columnar layer) is the most higlily specialized of the retinal layers. It is a remarkable group of slender columnar forms interspersed among sparsely distributed conical figures, which are shorter than the rods. The rods are absent over the macula lutea. The rods and cones are closely related struc- tures. Tiie basal portions are nearly structureless, but the apices are linearly striated, and those of the cones may pre- sent transverse markings. The layer is easily seen when the sclera and the choroid membrane from a fresh eye are immersed in cold water. (8) The pigment-layer is a single layer of simple hexago- nal cells, charged with black pigment-matter, wlience deli- cate processes protrude between the rods and cones. The outer surfaces are fiat. It lies in close contact with the