702 THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. XXO^OCxs mucous ]a3^er. The epithelium is of the stratified transitional type. Variations Tlie variations of tlie ureter are unimport- ant. The ureter may be double; very rarely three ureters pass out from a normal kidney. Remarks.—Compression of the ureters in cancer of the uterus often results in their enormous dilata- tion.—In obstruction to the outflow of the urine, either from stricture or disease of the bladder, the valvular character of the cysto uretral orifice is destroyed, and the ureter becomes dilated.—Vel- peau^ mentions a case in vsfhich a pin, lodged in the colon, had penetrated the ureter, and had col- lected upon its free projecting portion a quantity of calculous matter. It is thus possible for foreign bodies, which may have effected entrance into the ureter or the bladder from the intestinal canal, to serve as nuclei for calculus. In marked examples of dilatation, such as occur from occlusion by pressure, the ureter may assume a spiral form a short distance from the kidney, so that a valvular arrangement results which is of itself suffi- cient to prevent the escape of urine from the pelvis of the kidney.^ Luschka^ enters into a careful study of the rela- tions, anatomical and clinical, of the ureter in the female. The followini>; is an abridgment: The right ureter lies at first behind the end of the de- scending portion of the duodenum, so that these organs may communicate abnormally. The left ureter descends behind the duodeno-jejunal flexure; it may effect an abnormal communication with the sigmoid flexure. In a woman aged twentv-nine years, coming under the author's observation, it was noticed that, after recovery from pelvic cellulitis, a swelling developed in the left iliac region, near its junction with the lumbar region. A urinary fistule was established which discharged urine and feces. No bladder symptoms were present, and the urine which es- caped was perfectly normal. It was thought that ' Anat. Cliir., ii. 175. 2 Chas. J. Hare, Med. Times and Gaz., xiv. 1857, 233. 8 Arcliiv f. Gynakologie, iii. Heft 3, Taf. ix. a fistulous communication had been established be- tween the left ureter and the sigmoid flexure. The patient recovered. In deviation of the pregnant uterus from the median line to the right side, owing to malposition of the rectum, the right ureter is apt to be com- pressed. The pelvic portion is in part surrounded by the peritoneum, and in part by parametritic venous plexuses, which spread out from near the supra-vaginal portion of the uterine neck, the base of the broad ligament, and the vaginal vault. At the base of the broad ligaments, the ureters are applied to the pelvic wall, the left to the inner side, the right to the outer side of the internal iliac artery of the corresponding side.—-After leaving the lateral wall of the pelvis, each ureter crosses the round ligament and pierces the venous plexus at the side of the vagina and the neck of the uterus, where it is in relation with the uterine artery. The ureter forms a faint sigmoid curve near the supra-vaginal portion of the cervix, and finally approaches to within about five-eighths of an inch (one-and-a-half cm.) of the anterior wall of the vagina, and crosses the lateral surface of this passage at an acute angle. The proximity of the ureter to the vagina increases as the former passes downward and inward toward the median line at the bladder. At the level of the internal os the ureter is one inch (two-and- a-half cm.) distant. At the supra-vaginal portion it lies three inches and three lines (eight cm.) from the va- gina, and at the vault of the vagina two and three- eighths inches (six cm.). Thus retroflexion of the uterus may give rise to pressure upon the ureter.—In pronounced distension of the bladder the ureters are closely approximated to the anterior wall of the va- gina. When the bladder is contracted the peritoneum not only covers in the anterior wall of the entire supra-vaginal portion of the cervix, but also overlies the vault of the vagina, a thin layer of subperitoneal connective tissue alone intervening. This tissue, while the bladder is distended, lies between that organ and the uterus. An excellent example of a fistule connecting the ureter with the uterus is described by Freund.' At the autopsy the left ureter as it approached the cervix 1 Klin. Beitrage zur Gyniicolog. H«ft 1, 108, No. 14. EXrLANATION OF PLATE CVII. Fig. 1. A diagrammatic representation of the kidney, seen in a vertical transverse (frontal) section. Fig. 2. The bladder bisected, so as to display the fundus.