612 ORGANS OF SENSE. :>00^00»= THE COCHLEA. The Cochlea, so called from the resemblance it bears to a snail's shell, is that portion of the bonj labyrinth which receives the cochlear canal. The plan of the cochlea is that of a bony tube, turned two and a half times upon itself, and rapidly diminishing in calibre from below upward. The whorls are directed from the left to the right in the right ear, and from the right to the left in the left ear. The basal structures of the cochlea are often included in the term vestibular portion. The apex of the cochlea is called the cupola. The cochlea is directed forward, outward, and downward from the anterior portion of the vestibule, the base of the conic figure presenting toward the internal auditory canal. The cochlea communicates with the vestibule by a large opening (a/)eriM?-a baseos cochlearis), and with the chamber of the tympanum by means of the round window. The first whorl con- stitutes a portion of the inner wall of the chamber of the tympanum, and forms there a conspicuous eminence—the provioritory. In front of the cupola lies the carotid canal. The cochlea lies in front of the superior petrosal sinus, and near the canal for the Tensor Tympani muscle. The cochlea is from two to two and a half lines long by three to three and a half in width. The ■whole tube is about one-and-a-half inch long. Its axis measures fifteen lines in length, while its base is four lines in width. The cochlear tube circumscribes a small portion of the petrous portion of the temporal bone termed the modiolus (columella cochleEe), which extends from the base of the cochlea to the level of the second Avhorl. The modiolus rests upon the bottom of the internal meatus at the spiral tract.—The cochlea also permits a dense lamina of the petrous bone to be received between the first and second whorls, whence it follows the spiral turns of the tube to terminate within the apex. This forms the wall of a small space, which, in consequence of its funnel-like shajie, is called the infundihulum. The modiolus communi- cates with the infundibulum by means of a small canal {canalis centralis modioli), which extends the entire length of the modiolus. The "modiolus and the infundibulum may be compared to two cones touching at their tops: the former is cancellated petrous bone carried within the cochlea at its base; the latter is the termination of a lamina of petrous bone carried into the cochlea from its side. a, axis with its canals ; 6, infundibulum or enlarged upper end of the axis ; c, septum of the cochlea; membrane of Corti; e, membrane of Reissner; f, hiatus or helicotrema ; s t, scala tympani; s v, scala vestibuli; c c, cochlear canal. The parts above described may be held as related to a liypotlieticul axis or line which extends from the centre to the base of the cocidea, along the modiolus to the cupola. Such an axis as is produced within and beyond the infundi- bulum lies to the inner side of the last whorl of the cochlea. The true axis of the cochlea is, of course, the axis of tlie cochlear tube itself, and is a line produced along the course of the tube at a point which answers to the junction of the osseous lamina and the membranous structure transecting the cochlear tube. When a longitudinal section of the cochlea is made, after maceration of the petrous bone, the modiolus presents the appearance of a tapering shaft, about whose periphery extends a spiral ledge-like line, measuring about one-tenth of an inch in width, called the lamina ossea spiralis. Its free edge extends about half way across the bony cochlear canal, and indicates the division of the canal into two compartments as effected by the mem- branous lamina in the unrnacerated specimen. The space below the conjoined laminae receives the name of the scaki tympani^ since it terminates at the round window of the tympanum; while that above is known as the scala vestibuli, since it opens upon the cavity of the vestibule, where, when the membranous labyrinth is in position, it communicates with the saccule. It will be observed that the scalce do not exist in the macerated specimen, since the bony cochlear canal is not completely divided by the bony spiral lamina. The plan, as above given is modified toward the cupola as follows: The bony lamina terminates in a small hook-like process which is called the hamulus. The opening of continuity between the scalse is called the helicotrema.