THE SKIN. 728 CXx^^OO-s protoplasmic processes which, from the fact that thej resembling prickles or spinous projections, has given them the name they bear. The cells of the spinous layer become flatter as they reach the surface.—Super- imposed upon the spinous cells is the granular layer (stratum granulosum); above this the delicate lucid layer (stratum lucidum); and finally the flattened imbricated cells constituting the cuticular layer (see in extension, p. 37).—The cells of the granular layer and some of the spinous layer yield a peculiar sub- stance which is called the hyaline substance of Reck- linghausen (kerato-hyaline of Waldeyer). It proba- bly serves a purpose in converting the cells of the epiderm into horn-substance, and thus aids in giving consistence to the hairs and the nails. The muscles of the skin.—The skin is moved by muscular fasciculi inserted into it as in the instance of the Platysma Myoides, Palmaris Brevis, and the muscles of expression. The fibres of the skin can be moved upon themselves by intrinsic muscle-fibres. Such fibres are best developed in the scrotum where they constitute the dartos, but are also seen well de- veloped in the nipple. ISTo portion of the skin is entirely free from muscle-fibres, and they may be said to form two distinct groups: first, the group associated with the hair follicle {_Arrectores Pilorurn), which by their contraction can erect the hair and project slightly the walls of the follicles ; and a second group called by Unua^ the oblique tensors of the skin. The second group most probably acts in conjunction with the elastic fibres, and aids in maintaining the circulation of the blood and the lymph, as well as in facilitating the escape of sebaceous matter and sweat. General Considerations of the Skin.—In some localities, as in the scalp, the palms and the soles, the beds of the nails, the line of Poupart's ligament, the crests of the innominate bones, the auricles, the tip of the nose, and the eminences over the spinous processes of the vertebras, the skin is held in various degrees of fixation. Some of these depressions of the skin are determined by muscular action, and are noticed more especially in the face, the hands, and the feet. A number of depressions almost peculiar to the face result from the traction of muscles, and are seen as "furrows" and " wrinkles" as effects of inanition and of ad- vancing years. Dimples are pit-like depressions at points where the skin is held down to subjacent parts ' Infra, 14. by delicate trabeculse: the chin, the cheek, and the elbow exhibit them. They are most consp'cuous in well-nourished persons in whom the adjacent integu- ment is well cushioned in fat. The skin is every- where thin in children, and possesses a relatively abundant subdermal connective tissue. As a result of this peculiarity furuncular abscess with these sub- jects involves the deeper parts to a greater extent relatively than in the adult. The cutis in the adult possesses an average thickness of from one-and-a half to two mm. The skin is thinnest in the eyelids, the external auditory meatus, the lips, the glans penis, and the inner surfaces of the labia majora. It is rela- tively thin on the sheath of the penis, the scrotum, the nipple, and exceptionally thick on the palms and the soles, the buttock and along the back. The habitual use of clothing to some extent influences the general thickness of the skin. The margins of orifices at which mucous membrane and skin join, and which are free from cartilage, as at the oral and the anal apertures, are thin and mobile, and are liable to special invasions of diseased action. Among these may be mentioned fissure, mucous patch, condyloma, and epithelioma. In congenital ichthyosis the orifices named are of defective development (see Variations). The skin is extensile, and when divided retracts. Not merely are these properties due to the elasticity of the fibres of the derm, but are in a measure the result of action of muscular fibres in the skin. A given surface of skin may, under a gradual force ex- erted from beneath, adapt itself to a large area. Thus a tumor may acquire tegumental covering without the necessity of encroaching upon the skin of regions adjacent to that in which the growth originates. In the event of removal of the tumor the skin will not retract to its former dimensions, and is usually in part excised with the growth itself. As a sequence of pregnane}' it may be mentioned in connection with this subject that the mobility of the anterior abdom- inal wall is increased, and its indisposition to retract to the proportions customary in women prior to the first pregnancy is impaired, hence the walls are more or less pendulous and exhibit peculiar lines which result from the strain and disrupture attending the pressure of the gravid uterus. In health the skin is adapted to the outline of the limbs ; but in the emaciated and in the aged, folds of skin are conspicuous in many parts of the body from the inability of the skin to conform itself to the shrunken condition of the underlying tissues. The adipose tissue which is so abundantly deposited