EMBRYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF M A LF 0 E M A T10 N S. 758 OOO^OO^ of the choroid, which is formed from the original optic vesicle budded out from the fore-brain. To the second class belong the epithelial expansions of the membranous labyrinth of the ear, and the cavity of the nose, which are formed by involution from the superficial epiblast covering the external surface of the embryo. These accordingly have no primary connection with the brain. It may be supposed that the 'taste bulbs' and the nervous cells which have lately been described as present in the epidermis are also structures formed from the epiblast. In addition to these the crystalline lens is formed of involuted epiblast and the cavity of the mouth lined by it. "From the hypoblast are derived the epithelium of the digestive canal, the epithelium of the trachea, bronchial tubes, and air-cells, the cylindrical epithe- lium of the ducts of the liver, pancreas, and other glands of the alimentary canal, as well as the hepatic cells constituting the parenchyma of the liver, devel- oped as we have seen from the solid hypoblast cylin- ders given off around the primary hepatic diverticula. " Homologous probably with the hepatic cells, and equally of hypoblastic origin, are the spheroidal 'secreting cells' of the pancreas and other glands. The epithelium of the salivary glands, though these so exactly resemble the pancreas, is of epiblastic origin, inasmuch as the cavity of the mouth is lined by epi- blast. The hypoblast also lines the allantois. "From the mesollnst are formed all the remaining parts of the body. The muscles, the bones, the con- nective tissue, and the vessels, both arteries, veins, capillaries, and lymphatics with their appropriate epithelium, are entirely formed from the mesoblast. All the nerves of the body, both the cranial nerves (the so-called optic and olfactory nerves alone ex- cepted), the spinal nerves, and the sympathetic sys- tem, are formed from the mesoblast. The nerve-cells of the sympathetic ganglia as well as those of the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves are of mesoblastic origin, and thus apparentlj' are in striking contrast with the nerve-cells in the brain and spinal cord. The fibres constituting the white matter of both brain and spinal cord are probably derived from the mesoblast. "The generative and urinary organs are entirely derived from the mesoblast. It is worthy of notice that their epithelium, though resembling so closely the hypoblastic epithelium of the alimentary canal, is distinctly mesoblastic. "From the mesoblast lastly are derived all the muscular, connective, and nervous and vascular ele- ments, as well of the alimentary canal and its appen- dages as of the skin and the tegumentary organs. Just as it is only the epidermic moiety of the latter which is derived from the epiblast, so it is only the epithelium of the former which comes from the hypo- blast."! Remaeks.—In the human subject any gross defect of the arrangements of the layers of the blastoderm will end in the death of the germ; little or nothing is known beyond this. In the lower animals a few observations have, however, accumulated. Fol describes examples in the starfish of more than one spern:iatic filament entering the egg at or about the same time, resulting in irregular and defective unions between the female pro-nucleus and the multi- ple male pro-nuclei. The starfish possesses a transi- tional embryonic structure which, from its resem- blance to the permanent arrangement of parts in the sponges and related animals, has received the name of the yastrula. The gastrula becomes deformed when a number of spermatic filaments effect their entrance into the egg. Individuals so deformed never attain to the succeeding stages of development. Although nothing similar to the deformed gastrula has been observed in the higher animals, in the absence of other explanation the disturbing influence of an excess of sperm-force may be assumed to ope- rate in all eggs, and it would appear to explain at least one form of monstrosity, viz., that in which two em- bryos, each having its own umbilical vesicle, and from that fact presumed to have its own portion of yolk-food, have been united by the crowns of the heads. (See Fig. 205.) It is here necessary to believe that two head-folds have appeared, not side by side, but with their convex surfaces apposed, each head-fold re- maining intact. The ventral aspects of the two em- bryos in such a monster are not upon the same plane. Inasmuch as the ventral aspect is always on the under surface of the embryo it is likely that one of the em- bryos has undergone rotation from its original position. In some instances rotation to the extent of one-half of a circle has occurred, so that the face of one indi- vidual is upon the same plane as the occiput of the other. In other examples a quarter revolution has taken place, and the face of one embryo is presented to the plane of the profile of the other. Such mal- formations would not be apt to occur in creatures not possessing placental attachments; since, if the em- ' Quoted from "The Elements of Embryology," by M. Foster and F. M. Balfour, 197.