OEGANS OF SENSE. 616 SOO^OOC The Nerves of the Inner Ear.—The auditory nerve, after leaving the internal auditory meatus, divides into two branches, one for the cochlea and the verti- cal longitudinal canal, and the other for the saccule, the utricle, and the vertical transverse and horizon- tal canals. The latter in turn divides into two branches: A. One of these again divides into three, which are designed (1) to supply the ampulla of the vertical transverse semicircular canal; (2) to supply the ampulla of the horizontal semicircular canal; and (3) to supply the otoliths of the utricle.—B. The other branch supplies the otoliths of the saccule, and sends the remaining bundle of filaments by a special route, viz., through a small bony passage behind the position of the foramina for the nerve of the saccule to the ampulla of the vertical longitudinal canal. The nerve for the cochlea passes along the spiral tract to enter the modiolus. It soon divides into a great number of branches, which escape through the porous intervals between the vestibular and tympanic plates of the lamina ossea spiralis, to be received within the epithelial structure of the organ of Corti. Tlieir ultimate destination, however, is the basement membrane beneath the organ of Corti. The filaments for the terminal portion of the cochlear duct are not received from the side as above described, but by a number of special fibres transmitted verti- cally the entire length of the cochlea, through the canalis centralis modioli. Fi?. 150. From a transverse section through the inacnla acustica of the ntricle of the labyrinth of a Guinea-pig. a, medullated nerve-fibres, forming plexuses; 6, nuclei of the membrane ; c, sensory epithelium (diagrammatic) ; spindle- shaped sensory-cells possess long auditory hairs projecting between the coni- cal epithelium cells beyond the free surface. Just prior to their exit from the modiolus, the cochlear nerves are enriched with nerve-cells. This tract is situated within the canalis spiralis modioli already noticed. The above account is abridged from Brescliet. According to G. Retzius, the vestibular branch supplies the utricle and tlie ampuUas of the vertical longitudinal and the horizontal semicircular canals, wliile the coclilear brancii supplies the cochlear canal, and tlie ampulice of the vertical transverse semicircular canal. Bloodvessels of the Inner Ear.—^he, arteries of the membranous labyrinth are derived as follows: For the semicircular canals, the utricle and saccule, the internal auditory artery or the superior cerebellar artery. Communicating branches are derived from the arterial supply of the tympanic chamber. They may also receive branches from the stylo-mastoid, from the posterior auricular, or from occasional branches of the occipital artery. For the cochlea a number of twigs enter the modiolus and form a network occupying the inter- stices in the lamina ossea spiralis and the outer wall of the cochlear canal. Remarks.—The aud'tory nerve may undergo atrophy either in whole or in part. This condition is probably caused by lymph-stasis, or atheromatous degeneration of the auditory artery, though it may be limited to a portion of the fibres of distribution. The parts of the cochlear nerve which supply the basal convolution of the cochlear canal may be sepa- rately involved.' After obliteration of the semicir- cular canal in animals, the cells of the cerebellar cortex undergo degeneration.^ Peripheral disease of the nerve is thus seen to be followed by the same class of changes in the central nervous system pre- viously known to exist in the case of the optic nerve. After destruction of the internal ear, the auditory nerve may undergo progressive fatty degeneration.^ Concretions of phosphate of lime may form in the neurilemma.* Moos® has found them in chronic deafness associated with subjective noises. For addi- tional remarks see p. 617. THE INTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. The Internal Auditory iNIeatus extends from the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, toward the vestibule, to the base of the cochlea. Its direction is directly outward. It is between five and six lines long, and two lines wide. ' S. Moos and Steinbriigge, Archives of Otology, 1881, x. 10. 2 Stephani aud Weiss, for reference and comment see C. Spamer, Pliiiger's Archiv fiir die gesammte Physiologie, 1879, xxi. Nos. 10 and 12. 3 0. Weber, Pitba, and Billroth's Chirurgie. * Bottcher, Virchow's Arcliiv, xii. ^ See abstract in Archives of Otology, 1879, viii. 96.