THE CESOPHAGUS. . OOO^O-Cx: 641 The oesophagus is composed of a muscular, a sub- mucous, and a mucous coat. The muscular coat pre- sents two layers: an outer (longitudinal) and an inner (circular). The longitudinal layer arises from the pos- terior median ridge of the cricoid cartilage, and at the sides is continuous with the fibres of the Inferior Constrictor muscle, and is divided into three fas- ciculi, one in front, and one on either side of the gullet. These unite at the lower part of the canal, and finally are lost upon the walls of the stomach in the longitudinal tibres of that organ. The circular fibres, which are continuous with the lower fibres of the Inferior Constrictor of the pharj'nx, are slightly thicker than the longitudinal.—At several points on the posterior surface of the canal, the longitudinal fibres are entirely absent.—The muscular portions of the oesophagus in the cervical region are composed of striated muscular fibre; throughout the remainder of its course, of the non-striated variety. In addition to the muscular lajrers, as above given, Luschka describes several fasciculi which arise from the inferior horn of the thyroid cartilage. The (Esophagus is remarkable for possessing several mus- cular slips whicli extend from the canal to different organs. Attention was first directed to tliese fibres by Hyrtl,^ who describes a hroncho cesophageal slip wliich arises from the cesophagns and is inserted into the posterior membranous wall of tiie left bronclius, and apleuro-cesophageal slip which arises fiom tiie left wall of the oesophagus and is inserted into the left wall of tiie mediastinum. Treitz lias detected similar fasciculi passing to the pericardium, to the trachea, and to the great vessels. J. D. Cunningiiam^ has found as the result of fourteen dissections tliat pleuro-oesophageal muscular filaments were present in thirteen subjects, and pleuro- and broncho-cesopha- geal muscular fibres in ten. He has noticed muscular fas- ciculi passing from the anterior surface of the ojsopliagus to be inserted into the pericardium. The submucous layer of the oesophagus is abun- dant, and permits the mucous membrane upon it to be easily raised in folds. The mucous membrane is of a yellow or grayish-red color and is covered with squa- mous epithelium. At the lower third, raceinose glands with Avell-defined ducts pass through its entire thickness. Eelations and Remarks.—The oesophagus de- scribes three curvatures: one, the antero-posterior curvature which answers to the curvature of the vertebral column ; and two lateral curvatures. The first lateral curvature lies a little to the left of the ' Zeitschrift der Wiener Aertze, 1844. 2 Journ. Anat. and Phys., 1876, 320. median line, and terminates just below the origin of the left bronchus. From this part the second lateral curvature extends, which again carries the ajsophagus a little to the left of the median line, but brings it at the same time forward so as to terminate at the oesophageal opening of the Diaphragm. The first lateral curvature secures its most important relation with the trachea, which may be said to determine its position; the second retains its most important rela- tion with the aorta ; the first might therefore be called the tracheal curvature, and the second the aortic. Viewing the relations more exactly, the oesophagus is seen to lie first behind the trachea, then to appear at its left side near the base of the neck. Adjacent to it lie the left carotid artery and the left lobe of the thyroid body, together with the pneumogastric and left recurrent laryngeal nerves. Behind it, sepa- rated by loose connective tissue, is the Longus Colli muscle. Within the chest the pleura is in contact with it on either side. It is crossed by the left bronchus as this structure passes obliquely downward and outward at the level of the fourth or the fifth dorsal vertebra, and lies behind the pericardium, where that membrane covers the left auricle. Just as it leaves the region of the left bronchus the oesopha- gus assuines relations with the aorta in the neigh- borhood of the fourth costal cartilage. It first lies a little to the right of the aorta, and then, i. e., at about the lower third of its course, it lies in front of the vessel and to the left. It then describes an extended sinous line about the aorta. To the right and behind it lies the azvo"os vein. Parallel with it are the pneumogastric nerves; the left nerve pass- ing in front, and the right nerve behind the oesophagus. Instances are on record of hemorrhage into the oesophagus from the superior vena cava, from the ascending portion of the aorta, and from the innomi- nate or ricrht subclavian arteries. The heart has also been wounded by a foreign body which had lodged first in the oesophagus. The relations of the tracheal curve are essentially different from those of the aortic curve. In the trach- eal, the oesophagus is, relatively speaking, firmly held between the respiratory passages and the vertebral column, and is subject to no considerable deviation from its normal line; but the aortic curve varies in its position with the movements of the thoracic viscera. It is described as lying to the left of the front of the aorta, but it may, if the liver is small and depressed, while the stomach or spleen is enlarged and elevated, lie directly in front or even to the right of the aorta. 82