595 THE IRIS. downward and to the inner side. The outer fixed margin (ciliary margin) of the iris is continuous with the choroid coat posteriorly, with the ciliary muscle Section through the ciliary bodyaud the corneo-scleral junction, showing the ciliary muscle, and system of spaces at the continuity of cornea and iris, a, choroid ; 6, radiating flbres of ciliary muscle—the small group of circular fibres are seen lying to the median side of the radiating; d, a transverse section of a bloodvessel; /, the uvea of iris ; g, the pigment layer of the ciliary body ; h, the spaces of Fontana (rendered too conspicuous). externally, and with the peripheral fibres of the membrane of Descernet anteriorly. Fig. 134. e-^V/i/ »^S^ t)~~^^) The eyeball seen from in front, the eyelids being separated hy lid-retractors. 1, semilunar fold ; 2, 4, puucta ; 3, caruncle ; 5, internal palpebral ligament; 6, iris. The anterior surface is variously colored, and marked, for the most part, with an open network of irregular, rounded spaces, having wavy borders. Near the pupil the markings are radial. The ^'os^e- rior surface (uvea of iris) is black. The diameter of the pupil in health is, when contracted, about one-twentieth of an inch; when dilated, one-third of an inch. Structure The iris exhibits tliree distinct layers : (1) A layer of epithelial cells covers the front of the iris, which is continuous with the layer upon the posterior sur- face of the membrane of Descemet. (2) The muscular layer gives form to the anterior sur- face of the iris, and presents two distinct divisions. The pupillary margin is surrounded by a well-defined continuous muscle, one-fortieth of an incli wide, situated upon the pos- terior surface of the membrane, and called the contractor. The area between the circular layer and the margin is tra- versed by a number of radiate bundles, which, as they con- verge toward the pupil, occasionally anastomose at acute angles. They are inserted for the most part among the outermost of the fibres of the circular layers, a few reaching deeper. The interspaces between the muscular bundles are occupied by connective-tissue and pigmented cells, together with numerous bloodvessels and nerves. (3) Tiie uvea. The posterior surface of the iris is covered with a layer of black pigment-cells termed tiie uvea. This layer is continuous posteriorly with the similar layer constituting the pigment-layer of the retina. Scattered througiiout the iris are numbers of pigmented connective-tissue cells, black or of various sliades of yellow and brown. These, with the pigmented cells of tlie uveal layer, are the agents which produce the coloration of the iris. Pupillary membrane, or membrana pupillaris, is tlie name given to an embryonic structure wliich occupies the position of the future pupil. This membrane is vascular, its vessels being arranged in loops projected fi"om the continuity of the membrane with the iris. Bloodvessels.—The iris is an exceedingly vascular structure, being supplied by the terminal branches of the long ciliary, as well as by those of the anterior ciliary arteries, by branches of the lachrymal artery, and by muscular branches of the ophthalmic. The long ciliary arteries.^ two in number, pierce the sclera on either side of the optic nerve, and pass forward between the sclerotic and choroid coats as far as the ciliary muscle, at which point they enter the iris. They anastomose at the outer margin of the membrane, forming a ring, the circulus major. Branches from this ring supply the ciliary muscle and the iris, the latter forming, by anastomosis, a second ring about the pupillary margin, the circulus minor. The anterior ciliary arteries (short ciliary arteries) pierce the corneo-scleral junction, and supply the ciliary bodies. Their capillaries unite with these, and join the circulus major. The ciliary nerves, twelve to fifteen in number, penetrate the sclerotic near the optic nerve, and pass forward in company with the long ciliary arteries. The nerves are, in the main, distributed to the ciliary muscle, within which they form a plexus, and from this the iris is supplied. Variations.—A condition of congenital cleft or fissure in the choroid and iris has received the name of coloboma. Tiie iris may be absent. The pupil may be placed eccen- trically. In rare instances two pupils may be present in a