INAEY ORGANS. 716 THE GENITO-U or two-thirds differs in many particulars from the inner division. It is inore movable, somewhat tortu- ous, and has been called by Henle, from its widened, flask-shape appearance, the amimlla. The inner division, or isthmvs^ is usually about two inches in length and is straight and fixed. Its walls are of great thickness. (3) The interstitial portion lies within the cornu of the uterus. It measures but 0.04 in. in length, and is straight or slightly concave from below. The coverings of the Fallopian tubes are three in number, named from within outward as follows:— The Mucous Membrane. The Muscular Layer. The Peritoneal or Serous Layer. The mncous membrane is furnished with columnar epithelium bearing cilia. These extend upon the fimbriae, and may be detected even on their outer or peritoneal surface. Within the interstitial portion and isthmus the mucous membrane is smooth, and the diameter of the tube is exceedingly small, scarcely permitting the entrance of a bristle. The opening into the uterus is often found plugged with thick mucus. Within the ampulla the jnucous membrane is arranged in longitudinal folds, which present a shaggy appearance, due to great numbers of irregular and often even dendritic villous appendages. In some respects they resemble the fimhrise^ by forming lattice-work unions, thus converting portions of the mucous layer into a series of minute canals. When the walls of the ampulla are in apposition, it is pro- bable that the folds are so applied one to another as practically to convert the grooves also into canals. The muscular layer is composed, for the most part, of circular fibres ; a few longitudinal fibres, however, are found lying to the outer side of the foregoing. The peritoneal or serous membrane is loosely con- nected to the muscular layer. It does not surround the tube, the lower fourth being in contact with the connective tissue between the two layers of the broad ligament. Relations—Tlie most important relation of the Fallopian tubes is the one entertained to the ovary. While the ovary and the Fallopian tube are practically disjunct, the slender attachment so frequently seen extending between the two, as well as the general inclination of the infundibulum, indicates that near approximation, if not direct contact of the two, is readily secured when tlie fimbria are swollen. In most animals the oviduct is continuous witii the ovary, but in man and tlie majority of vertebrates the two are tiius structurally distinct. The broad ligament, while associated in the main with the uterus, under which head it is described, re- tains the ovary within its folds, and presents a small free lateral border between the infundibulum and the pelvis, and from this fact is called by Henle the mfundihido-pelvic ligament. Alterations in the form and relations of this border must ensue upon displace- ment of the tube. Variations—Tlie absence of tlie Fallopian tube is as a rule associated with absence of the ovary of the corresponding side. According to W. Krause, one or more associated initial openings may exist. The Fallopian tubes very rarely terminate in a cul-de-sac, one inch and a half from the body of tiie uterus ; in which event a fibrous band of the same length as the tube continues thence to the anterior wall of the rectum.^ Remarks.—The Fallopian tube may become an ingredient of hernia. Both tubes may become very much enlarged under morbid influences, as for ex- ample the retention of the menstrual fluid. Barnes^ states that blood, mucus, or pus formed in the uterus may thus be driven backward by the contraction of the uterus, distending the tubes, exciting inflamma- tion in them, and perhaps leading to discharge into the peritoneal cavity. In a similar manner fluids injected into the uterus may excite contraction, and this contracticni may thence drive the fluid along the tubes if its exit be impeded at the neck, either by flexion, or by the canal being filled too closely by the injecting tube. At the outer end of the tube, catarrhal inflammation often leads to adhesions of ' T, Grainger Stewart, Journ. of Anat. and Pliys., May, 1866, 243. 2 Loc. cit.,p.403. EXPLANATION OF PLATE CIX. Fig. 1. The ovaries, Fallopian tubes, uterus, and in part the vagiiia, from in front. The anterior wall of the vagina is removed. Fig. 2. The external organs of generation in the female. Fig. 3. The pelvic organs and external organs of generation in the female displayed in an antero-posterior (sagittal) section. The vagina distended in a conventional posi- tion. Fig. 4. The mammary gland—one portion of the gland is represented as dissected to display tiie lobules and connective-tissue loculi.