THE LARGE INTESTINE. 655 ■ ooO^OOo appear likely that this is the physiological position of the flexure, since it retards the descent of the feculent matter. It is in this position that it is apt to effect adhesions with the pelvic viscera, and thus are ex- plained those rare instances of fecal fistula3 opening into the bladder, the vagina, and even the vas de- ferens when the rectum is intact. A case has been recorded by Handeside^ in which during labor a rupture of the vaginal walls occurred. Eighteen inches of the sigmoid flexure protruded at the vulva. According to J. Lewis Smith,^ the colon of the infant is relatively longer and more movable than that of the adult. About one-fourth or one-third of the large in- testine in children lies within the brim of the pelvis; and in speaking of the size and angulation of the sigmoid flexure in such subjects, this author advises against the insertion of a solid instrument further than one inch and a half from the anus. A. JacobP asserts that there is not one only, but several sigmoid flexures in cliildren, owing to the manner in which this voluminous portion of the bowel is packed in the abdominal cavity.—John Abernethy narrates an instance in which the colon of an infant was found enormously enlarged, having a large flexure in the position of the transverse colon which reached the pelvis. The small intestine was but six feet in length.* The csecum, while covered entirely by peritoneum, as a rule, will occasionally have an open space behind in contact with the iliac fossa. But the size of this uncovered surfoce is not so large as it was supposed to be prior to the researches of Luschka.* By insert- ing the hand in either iliac fossa behind the peri- toneum, the loose connective tissue can be readily pushed up toward the Quadratus Lumborum muscle. It is this locality which is so frequently the site of inflammatory processes, transmitted from the colon and pelvic organs,—'the latter particularly in the female. {b) Torsion.—The large intestine is more prone to twisting or irregular angulation of one portion of the bowel over another than is the small intestine. For reasons already given, the sigmoid flexure is especially liable to this lesion, one-half the recorded cases being in this portion of the canal. Next in order come the caicum, then the ascending colon, and • Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ., 1873, xviii. 658. ' New York Med. Journ., x. 253. ' Sel. in Boston Med. and Surg. Journ. vi. Philosoph. Trans., 1809, xvii. 277 (fig^.)- 5 Archiv fiir Path. Anat., xxi. 285. finally the transverse colon.^ A good example of strangulation of intestine following rotation of the sigmoid flexure has been given by Jacob Bigelow.^ In the coats of the large intestine, as in the small intestine, the circular fibres pertain more especially to the mucous membrane, and the longitudinal to the peritoneal coat. H. B. Sands^ records a case in which a rupture of the colon following extreme distension did not involve the mucous layer. Hyrtl* describes an extraordinary lesion inflicted by a suicide who, after opening his abdomen, cut off" four-and-a-half inches of the transverse colon. At the cut end of the bowel, on the right side of the wound, he seized the mucous layer with its associated circular muscular fibres, and dragged five feet of it away from its nor- mal connections, the peritoneal covering and the lon- gitudinal muscular fibres alone remaining within the abdomen. On the left side the mucous membrane and circular muscular fibres protruded from the ex- ternal wound twenty inches. (c) Intussusception.—This is less frequently seen in the colon than in the small intestine. The mechanism, however, is the same. A case is described by A. Jacob.' of invagination of the descending colon in an infant, in which repeated hemorrhages took place in the transverse colon. Harrison* noticed an unusual form of this lesion, which consisted of the invagination of the transverse colon by the descending colon. Tlie tumor created by the inclusion was about the size of an orange, freely movable, and situated between the umbilicus and the left ribs. Obstruction of the colon may follow enormous de- position of fat beneath the peritoneum.^ (cZ) The presence of Diverticuli.—No true diver- ticuli occur in the large intestine; false examples, however, are occasionally met with. Sydney Jones* has recorded an interesting case of a male sixty-four years of age, who had suffered for years from a fecal fistula communicating with the bladder. At the autopsy it was found that the sigmoid flexure was contracted, and from among a number of false diver- ticuli of unequal length extending from this ])ortion of the large intestine, one had effected entrance into ' W. Brinton, Intestinal Obstruction, 1884, 84. 2 Boston Mid. and Surg. Journ., 1841, July 5. * New York Med. Journ., xix. 622. Topograph. Anat., i. 686, where reference is made to Wncli- eublatt der Zeitschrift der iirtzlichen Gesellschaft in Wein, i., No. 8. 5 New York Med. Journ., 1858, 355. 6 Dublin Med. Press, 1845. 7 H. Lenox Hodge, Trans. Path. Soc, Phila., 1877. s Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1859, 132.