THE LARGE INTESTINE. 653 :>00^000 . TiTE aECUM.—The Cfpcum (fig. 1, Plate CII.) is placed between the ileum and the colon. It lies in the iliac fossa, and measures two-and-a half inches in breadth. Behind and toward the median line of the body is the vermiform appendix. Though commonly in the same line as the ascending colon, the c;i3cum may form an obtuse angle with it. Its peritoneal covering is incomplete behind, thus bringing the structure in contact with the connective tissue of the iliac fossa. At times, however, it is completely en- veloped by peritoneum, when a short meso-cfecum may be defined. The longitudinal coat of the ileum is continuous with that of the crecum. The circular fibres and the mucous membrane are deflected as they pass from the ileum to the cpecum to form a pair of valve-like folds. This arrangement is termed the ileo-csecal valve (valve of Bauhin). It is situated at the upper portion of the inner border of the crecum, and is composed of two transverse folds, an upper and a lower, the latter being the larger of the two. The valves are covered with villi upon their upper sur- faces, but none are found on the lower. Both folds are continuous above with the ileum, while the under surface of the upper fold is continuous with the colon, the under surface of the lower fold is continuous with the ca?cum. The opening between these folds is of an elliptical shape. Its anterior end is tui'ned forward and slightly to the left, while the posterior end is narrow and pointed. Upon either side of the narrow ends of the opening is a ridge, or dolibling, termed the frtenum; this is shorter on the inner side. The Vermiform Appendix. — The Vermiform Appendix is an elongated cylindrical structure con- tinuous with the lower posterior and inner portion of the caecum. It measures from three to five inches in length, and has the diameter of a goose-quill, but is often slightly wider at the mouth. Its walls are relatively thick as compared to those of the CiBcum. The mucous lining is marked with numerous follicles and is smooth, except at its junction with the caecum, where a well-defined fold exists. This fold is best seen in young persons from the third to the twelfth year, is inconstant in adults, and often disappears in old age.' Very rarely a spiral valve is found through- out the entire length of the appendix. The appendix is invested by peritoneum extending from the basal portion to the caecum as a triangular fold, which has received the name of the mesenteriolum (Luschka). A portion of the ileo-ctecal fold reaches its base, beyond which is a pocket called the ileo-csecal recess. ' Aliliand. der Eriangen Phy. Med. Ges., ii. 7. Ivt'lations—Beliind the appendix are tlie iliac fossa and the brim of the pelvis. In front are the inner border of the caecum, and possibly the small intestine. To the inner side is the Psoas muscle, and to the outer side the csecum. As a rule, the appendix is bent once upon itself or twisted. It may be concealed beneath the caecum, or may hang down in the cavity of the pelvis, where it has been known to effect adventitious adhesions with the pelvic organs, and even to perforate the bladder. Rarely it is lodged under the ascending colon, or de- flected so as to be in contact with the abdominal wall. Cruveilhier records an instance in which it was con- tiguous with the liver. Other writers have mentioned the possibility of the appendix being caught in the mesentery,' or forming an ingredient of inguinal hernia.^ The vermiform appendix is of unknown function. It is found only in man, in the man-like apes, and in a marsupial animal—the wombat. It retains the em- bryonic characters of the large intestine, and is pro- bably a rudiment of the enormous caecum of quadru- peds of the rodent type. Although thus structurally insignificant, its possi- ble lesions may give rise to important clinical ques- tions, and it is not infrequently a factor in retro- peritoneal abscess.^ The Colox.—The Colon intervenes between the caecum and the sigmoid flexure. It is cylindrical in form, measures about two-and-a-half inches in dia- meter, and is marked in common with the ctecum with longitudinal bands and sacculations. It is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending portions. The Ascending Colon passes nearly vertically up- ward along the right side of the abdomen to the under surface of the liver, whence it turns abruptly to the left to form the hepatic flexure, and passes into the transverse colon. It lies in front of the right kidney. The Transverse Colon extends across between the ascending and descending portions beginning at the hepatic flexure and ending at the splenic. It is covered in front by the root of the great omentum. As a rule it lies across the upper part of the epigas- tric region, although it may be lower. The perito- neal covering is complete at the transverse colon, and forms the mesocolon, which extends from the ' N. Y. Med. Jourii., iii. series, vol. i. 18.5G, 328. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., 1868, 31(j. ' For a full discussion of this suljject, see W. T. Bull, N. Y Med. Journ., xviii. 240.