EMBRYOLOGY AND THE ST UDY OF MALFORMATIONS. 768 1 Foster and Balfour, 1. c, 118. the branches those of the superior maxillce, the lozenge- in series on either side across tlie axis of tlie alimentary canal, lying not quite at right angles to that axis and parallel to each otlier, but converging somewhat to the mid- dle of the throat in front. Viewed from the outside in either fresh or preserved embryos they are not very dis- tinctly seen to be clefts ; but when they are seen from within after laying open the throat, their characters as elongated oval slits can easily be recognized. " Four in number on either side, the most anterior is the first to be formed, the other three following in succession. Their formation takes place from within outwards. The hypoblast and mesoblast ai'e first absorbed along the line of the future cleft, then the epiblast is broken through, and the hypoblast, which is carried outwards as a lining to the slit, forms a junction with the epiblast at the outside of the throat. "No sooner has a cleft been formed than its upper border (/. e., the border nearer the head) becomes raised into a thick lip or fold, the visceral or branchial fold. Each cleft has its own fold on its upper border, and in addition the lower border of the fourth or last visceral cleft is raised into a similar fold. There are thus jive visceral folds to four visceral clefts. The last two folds, however, and especially the last, are not nearly so thick and prominent as the other three, the second being the broadest and most conspicuous of all. The first fold meets, or nearly meets its fellow in the middle line in front, but the second falls short of reach- ing the middle line, and the third, fourth, and fifth do so in an increasing degree. Thus in front views of tlie neck a triangular space with its apex directed towards the head is observed between the ends of the several folds. " Into this space the pleuro-peritoneal cavity extends, tlie somatopleure separating from the splanchnopleure along the ends of the folds ; and it is here that the aorta plunges into the mesoblast of the body. " Of the history of these most important visceral folds and clefts we shall speak in detail hereafter; meanwhile we may say that in the chick and higher vertebrates the first three pairs of folds are those which call for most notice. " The first fold on either side, increasing rapidly in size and prominence, does not, like tlie others, remain single, but sends off in the course of the third day a branch or bud-like process from its upper edge. This branch, starting from near the outer beginning of the fold, runs forward and up- ward, tending to meet the corresponding branch from the fold on the other side, at a point in the middle line nearer the front of the head than the junction of the main folds. The two branches do not quite meet, being separated by a median process, which at the same time gi'ows down from the extreme front of the head, and against which they abut. Between the main folds, which are directed somewhat down- ward and the branches which slant upward, a somewhat lozenge-shaped space is developed which, as the folds be- come more and more prominent, grows deeper and deeper. The main folds are the rudiments of the inferior maxillce, shaped cavity between them is the cavity of the mouth, and the descending process which helps to complete the upper margin of this cavity is called, from the parts which will be formed out of it, the fronto-nasal process."^ The visceral arches are first the mandihidar which accommodates an axial rod of cartilage about which is developed the lower jaw; second, the hyoid which yields the parts of the hyoid apparatus ; third, fourth, and fifth are not separately named, though the first has been called by some writers the tJiyro-hyoid. Their destiny in the history of the development of the neck is obscure. It has been seen that the head develops about the head fold of the medullary ridge. The line of pro- tovertebrse and the special notochord extend as a rod into the base of the skull as far as the anterior end of the basilar portion of the occipital bone. The note- chord is formed pr'.or to both cartilage and bone, but appears to suggest a substance related thereto. The rod becomes converted into cartilage yielding dis- tinctive buds which pass forward from the region at which the rod terminates. A med'an extension, or bud, composed of coalesced tralecuhe cranii^ enters the region of the face, and forms the nasal septum, the crista galli, and the lateral portions of the ethmoid bone. Prior to this coalescence of the trabeculge, they inclose a space called the pituitary space, into which the infundibulum and the pituitary gland extend. The trabecular have been supposed by some ob- servers to be comparable to a pair of visceral arches. They are, as has been seen, outgrowths from the carti- laginous investment of the notochord, while the vis- ceral arches are related to the mcsoblastic masses about the aortic system of vessels, although carrying axial rods of cartilage later. While thus differing in origin they are alike in the assistance they give to the development of the face and neck. From the trabeculfe are probably developed the inner ptery- goid plate, the palatine bone, the lower turbinated bone, and portions of the maxilla. While the lateral structures, seen in the plates from which the maxillte and the halves of the mandible arise, are extending toward the median line, the superficial median structures which conform to the position of the olfactory vesicle and the cerebral vesicle become conspicuous. These structures in- clude the nasal pit and the fronto-nasal process (Fig. 229). " Over each olfactory vesicle the external epiblast which covers them grows inward to form a shallow depression with a thickened border. These depressions are the nasal pits.