THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. 733 ■ COO^OOO The infiltrations attending acute laryngitis and pharyngitis may so change the relations of the ves- sel in the carotid triangle as to lead the incautious in examining the superficies to mistake the vessel for an engorged lymphatic gland. The Lateral Cervical Region embraces the neck between the Sterno-Mastoid sulcus and a line pro- duced from the mastoid f)rocess. It is chiefly remark- able for the conspicuous prominence at its upper two-thirds, which is caused by the belly of the Sterno- Cleido - Mastoideus muscle, and for the depression behind the lower jaw and above the clavicle. The Retro-Maxillary Region is the space beneath and behind the prominence formed by the angle of the jaw. The depression above and behind the lo- bule of the ear is called the suh-auricular fossa. The region is defined posteriorly by the mastoid process. The transverse process of the atlas can sometimes be felt at the base.—The shin of the retro-maxillary region is everywhere lax, and permits the finger to define the inner contour of the angle of the jaw. The lower lobule of the parotid gland can be felt in some subjects. The upper portion of the region has received the name of the Sterno-Mastoid region, and embraces the origin and belly of this muscle the greater part of its length.—The pus from a mastoid abscess has been known to flow into the digastric groove of the tem- poral bone, and following the occipital artery and the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle, to diffuse itself through the deep tissues of the neck beneath the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle.^ The Supra-Clavicular Region embraces the region immediately above the clavicles between the opposed borders of the Trapezius and Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscles. The recess near the outer portion of the bone is of interest from the fact that it is in this fossa that the third portion of the subclavian artery can in some individuals be found pulsating, and within this fossa the first incision is made in the operation for ligation of the subclavian artery at its outer third.—Numbers of lymphatic glands are present in the supra-clavi- cular region.—The process of the cervical rib can sometimes be detected here.^ The apex of the lung enters into this region, and it > Fr. Berzold, Deutsche Med. Wochensehr., No. 28, 1S81 ; see also Am. Jour. Otol., iv. 1882, 146. 2 T. .1. Sliepherd, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., olxi.^:., N. S. 1883, 112 (fig. and litei-atiirc). also receives the trunk of the external jugular vein. The pulsation of the transverse cervical artery can sometimes be distinguished in the supra-clavicular fossa. The Posterior Cervical Region.—The s/.;m of this region is thick and leathery. In backward traction of the head it is thrown at its upper part into a num- ber of parallel transverse folds. AVjove, where it mei'ges into the scalp, it is rich in hair follicles, and in sebaceous and sweat-glands. The subcutaneous con- nective tissue is abundant, compact, and occupied by trabecular bands holding the skin to the associated bones and muscles. It is a common site for painful forms of furuncle and carbuncle, and yields occasion- ally the nidus of origin of pedunculated fatty tumors which may attain enormous size. If the line of the lower border of the inferior maxilla be produced back- ward, it will cross the posterior cervical region at a point which answers to the position of the transverse folds just mentioned, and will serve as the inferior border of the naj^e of the neck, the superior border of which space corresponds to a line crossing the occiput just below the occipital protuberance. A conspicuous fossa (fovea nuchge) is ordinarily defined in the nape of the neck between the muscular elevations corresyjonding on each side to the upper portion of the Complexus and Biventer Cervicis muscles, and the thin overlying Trapezial sheet. The fossa is best defined in children from the fifth to the twelfth year; it is least conspicuous in obese male adults, and may be entirely absent in women. The bottom of the fossa answers to the space between the occipital bone and the arch of the axis, and includes the posterior arch of the atlas. From its relation to veins as they pass out from the brain-case, and to the pharyngeal plexus it is the favorite locality for the application of cups. The posterior surface of the neck below the nape answers to the u|;)per part of the lozenge-shaped membranous intersection of the Trapezii muscles.— The spines of the cervical vertebrge are not felt beneath the skin until the seventh cervical is reached. A bursa which may become sufficiently large to attract the attention'of the surgeon is lodged over the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. The Chest is that part of the trunk whose frame- work is secured from the thorax.