THE PARTS OF THE EMBRYO IN WniCH DEFECTS OCCUR. - - 'XX>^^OCx> — • 757 jwlar vesicle, in time becomes constricted at its base, is cut loose from the egg, and is lost. Coincidentlj with this^ occurrence at the point where the germinal spot and germinal vesicle have disappeared, a structureless spot appears with lines of the granules of the vitellus arranged as radii toward it, the whole assuming a star-like form which has received the name of the arch-amphiaster, and which at the same time forms the fejnale pro-nucleus^ i\\e latter being the name given to that portion of the egg which is alone susceptible of receiving the male impression. The egg is now ready for the spermatic filament. This essential factor to the subsequent changes effects its entrance into the egg at a point opposite the position of the female pro-nucleus, and so modifies the disposition of the granules about a structureless centre as to form another arrangement, which, closely resembling the female pro-nucleus, has received the name of the male pro-nucleus. The pro-nuclei ad- vance toward each other and merge at about the centre of the egg. Conception has now occurred. The changes following conception are, first, seg- mentation; and, second, the formation of the blasto- dermic membrane. Segmentation is the act of division of the vitellus into successively smaller and smaller masses. This begins by the vitellus forming two equal hemi- spheres, each hemisphere divid.ng in its turn, and each of these four parts again dividing. The process is continued until the entire vitellus is converted into a great number of minute spheres, which are called collectively the mulberry mass. The follow- ing is thought to be the manner after which the seg- mentation is accomplished. The conjoined pro-nuclei form a central star-like figure which tends soon to be bi-polar, each pole re- calling the form of the amphiaster, and by traction on the intermediate substance causing it to assume a ribbed or lined appearance. The granules of the vitellus range themselves about each of the polar amphiasters until there ap- pears a nearly structureless space between the now localized hemispheres, along which fission occurs, and the intermediate substance between the amphiasters is severed in the centre. No sooner is the form of each hemisphere determined than the same process is repeated, the bi-polar disposition always occurring in the main axis of the mass. As a result of this method of division the essential quality of the im- pregnated egg is evenly distributed in such manner that when the process ceases each of the spherules of the mulberry mass contains a portion of both male and female elements. After complete segmentation the upper or dorsal portion of the egg is known as the germinative area. It is translucent, and in time is occupied by a sheet or layer of closely aggregated granules, which is called the blastodermic membrane. The hlastodermic membrane shortly undergoes hori- zontal cleavage into three layers (Fig. 228): the Fig. 228 Hi/po- Transverse section of blastoderm of fowl's e; ■ at the situation of the primi- tive trace and primitive furrow—epiblast, mesoblast, hypoblast. upper or epi-blast, the middle or meso-blast, and the lower or hypo-blast. Each of these develops certain organs of the body, which may be grouped thus :— "The epiblast forms primarily two important parts of the body, viz., the central nervous system and the epidermis. " It is from the involuted epiblast of the neural tube that the whole of the gray matter of the brain and spinal cord aiipears to be developed, the simple columnar cells of the epiblast being apparently directly transformed into the characteristic caudate nerve-cells. It is probable that the white matter of the brain and spinal cord is derived from the meso- blast alone. The epithelium (ciliated in the young animal) lining the canalis centralis of the spinal cord, together with that lining the ventricles of the brain, all which cavities and canals are derivatives of the primary neural canal, is the undifferentiated remnant of the primitive epiblast. From the epiblast are formed all such tegumentary organs or parts of organs as are epidermic in nature. "In addition to these, the epiblast plays an impor- tant part in the formation of the organs of special sense. According to their mode of formation, these organs may be arranged into two divisions. In the first come the cases where the sensory expansion of the organ of special sense is derived from the invo- luted epiblast of the medullary canal. To this class belongs the retina, including the epithelial pigment