639 THE TONSIL. ease either from the vertebral or the pharyngeal side. The disease known as post-pharyngeal abscess or retro- p)haryngeal abscess is thus located. The pus in such a collection pushes the posterior wall of the pharynx forward, causing dysphagia. Sometimes it gravitates and forms deep collections of pus in the neck. In a case of this description, care- fully reported by Hilton,' a large deep swelling occu- pied the upper part of the left side of the neck as far as the angle of the jaw. The carotid artery was felt pulsating upon the anterior aspect of the swelling, close to the anterior edge of the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoid Muscle. The trachea was pushed forward and to the right side. The collection was opened through the Sterno-CIeido Mastoideus. The patient, a child of twelve months, recovered. When a pharyngeal abscess is about to burst within, a projection often forms which has been known to pi'ess upon and obliterate the aperture of the glottis.^ The tonsil and the adenoid tissue at the roof of the pharynx (pharyngeal tonsil) tend to disappear after the completion of the process of ossilication of the skeleton. The pharynx is furnished with numerous follicular and racemose glands. These are most conspicuous along its posterior wall, where they frequently form en- larged lentil-shaped out growths due to the thickening of the connective tissue about their ducts. Such eminences when numerous form one of the most dis- tinctive signs of follicular pharyngitis. The naso-jJiarynx. The adenoid tissue at the roof of the pharynx is sometimes greatly enlarged, and occupies the naso pharynx, interfering with the action of the soft palate.^ The naso pharynx is the seat of a peculiar tumor known as fibrous polypus or naso-pharyngeal poly- pus. It appears to originate at the lateral aspect of the roof, and tends to grow downward and forward into the nose and its connections. It may, however, break down by pressure thin barriers of bone, as the walls of the sphenoidal sinus, the plates of the ethmoid, and other thin facial bones. Epithelial cancer of the pharynx has been de- scribed by Sj'dney Jones.'' A pendulous fattj' tumor is described and figured by Holt.* ' Lectures on Rest and Pain. 2 Peacock, Trans. Path. Soc, i. 1849, 88. ' For a detailed account of tliis condition, Cliir. Trans., 1870, 191. ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1860, xi. 101. 5 Ibid., 1854, 123. see Mever, Med. The recess on the lateral wall of the pharynx be- tween the orifice of the Eustachian tube and the pos- terior wall, is called the fossa of Rosenmiiller. This fossa is used as a guide by the physician in introducing the Eustachian catheter. By first insert- ing the end of the instrument in this depression it can be felt by gentle traction forward to leave the fossa, glide over the hook-cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and drop into its orifice. The phvsician is thus reasonably certain of securing the desired object without the necessity of recalling the varying rela- tion of the orifice of the tube to other fixed points of the naso-pharynx. The pharynx when perforated (as by a fish-bone or projectile) rnay lead to diffuse suppuration in the neck and to exposure of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Extravasation may take place through this opening in the roof of the pharynx and cause abscesses in various parts of the neck. A unique case is narrated by Ch. H. Moore' of perforation of the pharynx by the superior cornu of the tliyroid cartilage, caused by a fall from a horse. Extensive suppuration of the neck followed, and the patient perished at the end of two months. Cases have also occurred in which fragments of straw have perforated the pharynx, causing abscess and extrava- sation. Division of the lower part of the pharynx often accompanies lesion of the larynx in suicidal cut- throat. The act of deglutition is necessarily inter- fered with, the lips of the wound separate at each attempt to swallow, and liquids may even run out of the wound upon the skin of the neck. THE TOXSIL. The Tonsil (fig. 2, Plate C.) is an almond-shaped body, about nine lines long and six lines wide, lodged in the space between the palato-glossal and palato- pharyngeal folds. This space from the disposition of the folds is narrow above where they converge, and broad below, where they diverge. Hence the tonsil is in contact with the folds above, but is free below. To the outer side of the tonsil lies the Superior Constric- tor muscle and beyond this are found the internal carotid artery and the lower portion of the parotid gland. Extending downward in the tonsillar space below the tonsil are scattered a few pea-shaped bodies which resemble the tonsil. These form the infra- tonsillar glands [rryptae vestibuli inferiorts of Tour- 1 Lancet, 1864, 286.