661 THE LIVER. portion of which is occupied in the fcetus by the um- bilical vein, and hence it is sometimes called the um- hilical groove ; across the posterior portion passes the obliterated ductus venosus, accommodated within the groove for the duclus venosus. Corresponding to the position of the gall-bladder is a groove known as the groove for the gall-hlodder. Joining the ex- tremities of the groove for the gall-bladder and the umbilical groove, is the transverse fissure. This lies in the middle of the under surface, measures twelve to fifteen lines in length, and accommodates the hepatic artery, portal vein, hepatic duct, and lymphatics. At the posterior border, and answering to a line continu- ous with the groove for the gall-bladder, is a small oblique groove for the vena cava. The figure resulting from the union of the above- named lissures has been compared to the letter h, thus:— Groovi! for {xnll-liladder. Umbilical groove. Groove for durtus venosus. Longitudinal groove. In some specimens the groove for the vena cava is near the transverse fissure, when an Il-like figure results. This is the normal arrangement according to Cruveilhier. The under surface of the liver is marked by three shallow depressions for the right kidney, the colon, and the right supra-renal capsule. When the liver is hardened in position it is seen that the fioure above described is more or less conven- tional. The portion of the upper surface not covered with peritoneum, the Spigelian lobe, and the greater portion of the under surface of the left lobe look directly backward. These portions have been included by His in a posterior surface of the liver. The Hepatic Notches.—The anterior border is marked by a notch for the umbilical vein. The posterior border is broadly notched or excavated by the vena cava and the vertebral column. Small bridges of hepatic tissue are apt to extend across the groove for the umbilical vein and the vena cava. The Hepatic Lobes.—-The under surface of the liver is divided into five lobes as usually described, viz., the right, left, quadrate. Spigelian, and caudate. from the right the latter is a which has re- The umbilical fissure, and the groove for the dorsal vertebras, separate the left lobe from the right. The umbilical fissure, the transverse fissure, and the groove for the gall-bladder separate the quadrate from the right lobe. The groove for the remains of the ductus venosus, the groove for the vena cava, and the transverse fissure, separate the Spigelian lobe lobe. Passing from the former to small process of hepatic substance ceived the name of the caudate lobe. The remainder of the under surface, ■/.<?., that por- tion to the right of the groove for the gall-bladder, and the upper surface from the interlobular notch to the right border, belongs to the right lohe. Thus, of the five lobes, only the right and left are seen from above; and of the five the left is the most distinct; while the quadrate, Spigelian, and caudate are really differentiations from the under surface of the right lobe. These last-named lobes may be briefly defined as follows: the quadrate lies in front of the transverse fissure, between the umbilical fissure and the fissure of the gall-bladder. It presents a uniform flat surface. The Spigelian lobe lies behind the transverse fissure between the groove for the ductus venosus and the groove for the vena cava. It projects as a flattened semilunar process down- ward and backward, and is embraced by the lesser curvature of the stomach; its lower free surface corresponding to the upper border of the pancreas.— The Spigelian lobe is connected through a long isthmus or caudate process or lobe with the under surface of the right lobe. In fr(jnt of the caudate process is the transverse fissure; behind it is the groove for the vena cava. The Hepatic Ligaments.-—The liver is not enveloped in the peritoneum, but has the posterior border free; this surface is in contact with the Diaphragm. The several folds of the peritoneum belonging to the liver are termed ligaments. These are as follows: the coronary, the lateral, the suspensory, and the round ligaments. To these may be added the gastro- hepatic omentum and two others, which are less defined, extending I'espectively from the liver to the kidney and to the colon. The coronary ligament is the line of reflexion of the peritoneum from the Diaphragm to the upper surface of the liver on the one hand, and from the Diaphragm to the under surface on the other. Its main extent answers to the upper border of the poste- rior free surface of the liver.