682 THE ORGANS OF E E S P I R A T10 N. COO^OOo^ A transverse line drawn from the cricoid cartilage across the neck would pass over the spot where the Omo-Hyoid muscle crosses the common carotid artery. The region of the cricoid cartilage is that to which abnormal sensations of the pharynx are often referred. This is doubtless owing to the fact that in irritated states of the pharynx the act of deglutition is painful, and since the cricoid lies at the lower part of the pharynx its motions determine a greater amount of distress than do corresponding motions at any other portion of the throat.—Firm, gentle pressure back- ward against the cricoid develops pain in laryngeal phthisis, and in the incipient stage of carcinoma of the oesophagus when this disease is located at the upper portion.—The cartilage is relatively more prominent in women than in men, and is often the site to which abnormal sensations are referred by neurotic subjects. Tlie Arytenoid Cartilayes.—The arytenoids are sub- ject to necrosis and to tubei'cular inflammation.—The mucous membrane over the cartilages is often acutely inflamed in pharyngitis. The Thyroid Cor^/for/e.—Manipulation of this carti- lage is a valuable aid in diagnosis of morbid condi- tions of the neck ; thus, pushing the cartilage down- ward causes pain in pharyngitis. The cartilage is carried forward in post-pharyngeal abscess.—The thyroid cartilage is more or less translucent, and permits light to be transmitted in the living subject from side to side.' A peculiar friction sound is heard by moving the larvnx laterally, wh'ch is caused by the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage and the posterior sur- face of the cricoid cartilage moving together with the lower partof the pharynx against the vertebral column. Care should be taken to distinguish between such normal crepitus and that accompanying fracture of the thyroid cartilage. The normal crepitus dis- appears in retro-pharyngeal abscess, but persists in retro-laryngeal abscess. In studying cases of suspected fracture of the thyroid cartilage it is important to remember that the upper horn is sometimes found separate from the body.^ ' C'zeiinak, Kelilkopfspiegel, Leipzig, 1860, 21. 2 Liisclika, Virchow's Arcyiiv, 1868, 478. Adam's apple may be concealed by oedema and deflected from its position in the median line in post- pharyngeal abscess. The notch at the upper border of the thyroid car- tilage does not appear until puberty. The Epifjlottis. (Fig. 7, Plate XCIX., fig. 5, Plate cm., Plate CIV.) The shape of the epiglottis appears to be in a measure determined by the condition of the muscles of the pharynx. The cartilage, when narrow, pointed, and deflected backward, is often found asso- ciated with a powerful yet fretted pharynx, or at least with one in which a history of pharyngeal dis- tress can be elicited. The cartilage when broad and shallow is often associated with a capacious, tractable pharynx.—The lateral borders of the cartilage may touch the sides of the pharynx either from an unusual increase of the diameters of the cartilage or from thickening or relaxation of the pharynx. In self-inflicted transverse wounds of the neck (the upper border of the thyroid cartilage being taken as a guide) the ep'glottis is divided.—-The epiglottis is pecuharly liable to sloughing from tubercular and syphilitic disease. The epiglottis is an accessory to the closure of the glottis, and also aids in directing the mucus expelled from the. trachea into the mouth. The mechanism of passive closure of the glottis as contrasted with active or muscular closure by the constrictor muscles is as follows: the base of the tongue in deglutition presses downward upon the upper surface of the epiglottis while the larynx is raised, and the glottis thereby lies against the under surface. The epiglottis is thus not altered in position, being held between the tongue and the larynx.—It is agreed by observers that the glottis can be closed without the aid of the epiglottis, so that, when this structure is mal- formed, congenitally absent, or has been lost by dis- ease or injury, deglutition is not necessarily impaired. Larrey,' it is true, mentions two cases of gunshot wound involving the loss of the epiglottis, in which dysphagia followed, in one case indeed persisting after cicatrization; and A. Flint, Jr.,2 describes a case of syphilitic sloughing of the epiglottis in which cough- 1 MStnoires, i. 313. 2 Physiology, ii. 200, EXPLANATION OF PLATE CUT. Fig. 1. Tlie liyoid bone and tlie larynx, witli ligaments seen from in front. Fig. 2. The same, seen from tlie side. Fig. 3. The hyoid bone, seen from in front. Fig. 4. Tlie same, seen from above. Fig. 5. The larynx in position, seen from behind.