66^ THE LIVER. ^oo^oo^ ■ liepatic artery (interlobular brandies), which freely inter- communicate and form through the lobule, between its per- iphery and centre, a capillary network. Directly at the centre the venules of this network (intralobular vessels) converge to form radicles of the hepatic vein. Fig. 179. From a section tlirouj,'h tlie liver of pig. Five lobules are showu. Tliey are well separated from one another by the interlobular tissue, s, interlobular connective tissue, containiug the interlobular bloodvessels, i. e., the branches of the hepatic artery and portal vein, and the interlobular bile-ducts ; i, intra- lobular or central vein. Within the same space in which this change of arterial to venous blood is being effected, the bile-ducts take their origin, and are directed towards the periphery of the lobule. The Excretory Apparatus. The Hepatic Excretory Apparatus consists of the Hepatic Ducts. Gall-bladder. Cystic Duct. Common B liary Duct. The Hepatic Ducts (bile-ducts), as they lie in the inter- lobular spaces, are well-defined canals having a fibrous coat with abundant elastic tissue, and a mucous mem- brane furnished with columnar epithelium. Every- where, from this point downward, as they converge, the ducts are furnished with numerous glandular appendages in the form of lobated mucous follicles. These follicles in some of the larger ducts are so large and numerous as almost to conceal the main duct, and have been supposed by Henle to be the essential gene- rators of the bile, while to the hepatic cells he would restrict the glycogenic function. In following the majority of authors in believing the bile to be generated by the hepatic cells, it must be conceded that the bile as eliminated by the cells receives valuable accessions, probably of a viscid cha- racter, from the mucous glands, in the same manner the that the seminal fluid receives additions from glands appended to the urethra. The Gall-Bladder is the reservoir for the bile. The organ lies in the groove of corresponding name situ- ated between the quadrate and right lobes. Its shape is pyriform, its base being directed forward, its apex backward and slightly to the left. The fundus of the gall-bladder projects somewhat beyond the free border of the liver about opposite the tenth costal cartilage. Its apex, through the cystic duct, joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle to form the common biliary duct. The gall-bladder measures from three to four inches in length, and one-and-a-half incli in breadth at the fundus. It has a capacity of from one-half to one-* and-a-half fluidounce. In diseased conditions these measurements are materially modified. Murchison, for instance, cites an example of a gall-bladder seven inches in length. The gall-bladder possesses three coats including the periloneum, which, as a rule, envelops the under and lateral portions only. An example of complete peritoneal investment with defined meso-cystic fold is described by Hyrtl.' The upper surface lies in con- tact with the under surface of the liver, and is con- nected with it by a quantity of fine connective tissue. The remaining coats of the gall-bladder are the fibrous and m.ucous coats: the former of these pre- sents no peculiarity; the latter is remarkable for the minute reticulation everywhere present upon its inner surface, and also for being stained by the bile a dark greenish brown color. The epithelium is of the co- lumnar variety. A few non-striated muscular fibres may be discerned in the walls of the gall-bladder. The relations of the organ are as follows : The fundus is in contact with the abdominal parietes near the tenth costal cartilage. The under surface lies upon the transverse colon, which fact can be often ascertained after death by this organ being discolored at the point of contact. Near its apex the under surface may touch the pylorus or first portion of the duode- num. The Cystic Duct as it leaves the gall-bladder is bent twice abruptly upon itself like an italic S, but subsequently becomes straight. It is directed down- ward and inward. As above noted, it joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle. This duct is fur- nished with minute valves, varying from five to twelve in number, which are arranged in the form of Topog. Anat. 708.