SUPERFICIAL AND T O P 0 G E A P HI C A L ANATOMY. 7U c-00§§OC>o ened walls, and be traversed by bands; and the fourth, has been described by Luschka and Hyrtl as suscep- tible of enlargement. The writer last named sug- gests that when this bursa is found enlarged in infants, it should be studied in connection with the appear- ances of spina bifida, of which, when imperfectly de- veloped, it may be a related defect. The points that can be distinguished by palpation in this region are the crest of the ilium, the anterior and posterior superior spinous processes (the last named being on a level with the second sacral spine), the prominence over the sacral spines and over the great trochanter, as well as a depression directly be- hind this eminence. The space between the Gluteus Maximus and Glu- teus Medius is sometimes the seat of blood extravasa- tion and of abscess. Fistulas may also point here. As a rule it may be said that the affections of this region are initiated elsewhere, either in the cavity of the pelvis (from which space they may involve the region of the hip through the sacro-sciatic foramina), or in the bones. By N^laton's line is meant an imaginary line ex- tending from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the centre of the tuberosity of the ilium. THE GROIN. The Groin^ (inguinal region, trigonum inguinale, upper femoral region) is that space which is defined upon the anterior surface of the thigh by Poupart's ligament above, by the continuation of a line which unites the lower limit of the feraoro-scrotal with the gluteal fold below ; and, to the outer side, by an imagi- nary line which extends between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the great trochanter. The groin is thus a triangular space which answers to the lines of voluntary flexion of the thigh on the abdomen. The lower limit corresponds to a line uniting the points of exit of the middle cutaneons and the small sciatic nerves. The skin of the groin is thin and delicate and at the median third is covered in the adult with hair ; toward the pubis the skin is furnished with numbers of sweat and sebaceous glands, is liable to attacks of inter- trigo, and may be involved in eczema of the genitals and the perineum. As a rule, the skin is translucent, and permits the course of the superficial veins to be dis- 1 Tlie groin is, in common language, tlie depression between the abdomen and the thigh, while the inguinal region pertains to the iliac region of the abdomen as the term "inguinal canal" would indicate. While the two terms are thus not, strictly speaking, synonymous, they are interchangeably used in clinical reports. earned beneath. In cicatricial contractions, the skin may aid in maintaining states of "morbid flexion of the thigh on the abdomen. While mobile and distensile, and readily accommodating hernial and fatty tumors, the skin may be torn on sudden forced extension of the thigh from a position of previous flexion.—It may resemble that of the abdomen in women who have borne cliildren.— Skin-incisions gape more when transverse than when vertical; hence it has been recommended b_y Malgaigne to open abscesses by vertical incisions. The following structures can be detected by toucli in the groin. Poupart's ligament can be felt at the bottom of the depression which extends from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubis. The outer half of the ligament is the more distinct. The ligament is relaxed in flexion of the thigh on the abdomen, and on flexion and adduction of the thigh.—-The inguinal lymphatic glands can be detected, especially in thin young subjects.—The bursa beneath the conjoined tendon of the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus muscles is sometim.es sufficiently distended to be felt. When thus abnormally enlarged, it may be mistaken for psoas abscess.—The pulsations of the femoral artery can be felt. Pus from a psoas abscess and hernia through the obturator foramen i-eadily involve the inguinal region. THE THIGH. The Thigh includes that region which lies between a line encircling the limb at the gluteal fold, and a second line, at the upper margin of the cul-de-sac of the knee-joint, when the thigh is extended. The line last named encircles the limb one-and-a-half inch above the patella. The thigh is cylindroid in form in well-nourished females and infants, but it is less regular in form, and is marked by numbers of eminences in muscular adults, in whom the thigh is rounded on the lateral and posterior surfaces, is slightly convex on the ante- rior, and is flat upon the median surface. The form of the thigh is due to the shaft of the femur at a por- tion which answers to the linea aspera and to the deep fascia which incloses the muscular masses. The sJcin is thicker upon the lateral than upon the median aspect. It is everywhere freely movable, but is especially mobile over the outer hamstrings and along the lower median surface. In well-nour- ished infants the skin is marked by several trans- verse folds, which may become the seats of intertrigo. —Varicose veins are not unfrequently seen beneath