632 OEGANS OF SENSE. =oo^<x>^ of the crown is nearly straight, the lateral (outer) bor- der is slightly convex, and, in the upper jaw, directed obliquely downward and outward, the peculiarity last named being best seen in the sOperior lateral incisor. The cutting edge of the newly erupted crown is ordi- narily marked by three minute serrated inequalities, which are soon lost, and the anterior surface by from one to three faint longitudinal grooves. The general contour of the edge of the fully developed tooth is slightly curved (laterally)downward; a peculiarity best seen in the lateral tooth. The posterior surface ordina- rily exhibits a ti'iangular concavity occupying about two-thirds of the entire surface. Between the apex of this space and the neck of the tooth there is a rounded prominence, and at the sides are well-defined ridge-like borders which are continuous witli the median and lateral contour-lines. THE CANINE TEETH. Fi-. 163. Canine tooth of the lower jaw, front and side views. The Canine teeth (figs. 162, 163) are four in number—two in each jaw. They are the largest teeth in the series. The crown projects slightly below the other teeth in the upper jaw, and above them in the lower. The root, which is twice as long as the crown, is deeply imbedded in the struc- ture of the superior maxilla. The general form of the crown is conical, with a triangular depression posteriorly, which is smaller than the similar space on the incisor. The lateral walls also are thicker than in the incisor, and the basal prominence is larger. The root is grooved upon its lateral surface. The cutting edge is composed of two oblique converging surfaces of Avhicli the median is the smaller. The term " eye-tootli" is often given to tlie superior canine. Its application is supposed to be due to tlie fact tiiat inflammation of the root may lead to inflammation of the appendages of the eye. The lower canine tootii is sometimes called the " stomach tooth." THE BICUSPID TEETH. The Bicuspids (premolars) (figs. 164-167) are eight in number, four in each jaw. As the name implies, they present two cusps or prominences, separated by a deep transverse fissure on the grinding surface of the crown. The outer (buccal) cusp, the larger of Fig. 164. Fis. 165. Fig. 164.—First bicnspid of the ujiper jaw, front and side views. Fijj. 165.—First bicuspid of the lower jaw, front and side views. the two, is more or less tri-hedral; the inner (palatal) cusp is conical. The two are united at the median Fig. 166. Fig. 167. Fig. 166.—Upper first bicuspid, front and side views. Fig. 167.—Second bicuspid of the lower jaw, front and side views. and lateral borders by a ridge, the median border being the more robust. The root is compressed laterally, and is grooved on either side. THE MOLARS. The Molars (grinders) (figs. 168-170) are twelve in number, six in each jaw. They are of quadrilateral form and diminish gradually from the first to the third. Each crown presents four cusps, of which the antero- Fis. 168. Fig. 168.—First molar of the upper jaw. Fig. 169,—Third molar of the upper jaw. Fig. 170.—Second molar of the upper jaw. internal (medio-palatal) is the largest, and the postero- internal (latero-buccal) commonly the smallest. In the superior molars the antero-external (medio-palatal) and the postero-external (latero-buccal) apparently blend, forming an oblique ridge on the grinding surface of the crown separating the remaining cusps. The median border of the grinding surface is limited by a ridge uniting the two anterior (median)