685 THE MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX, OOO^OOo The Crico-Tliyroid is a short triangular muscle which arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage. Its diverging fibres pass upward and outward, and are inserted into the thyroid cartilage, from the base of the lower cornu forward to near the median line. Action.—The Crico-Thyroid has a fixed point of origin in the cricoid. It draws the thyroid cartilage down toward this origin, and thus makes tense the vocal cord indirectly. The motion of the thyroid cartilage while downward is also somewhat rotatory forward.^ Some, of tlie more superficial fibres of this muscle may be traced into tlie Inferior Constrictor. Tlie lower fasciculus is composed of nearly horizontal fibres, and is sometimes distinct. A triangular space is left between the anterior border of the Crico-Thyroid muscles, thus exposing the crico-thyroid membrane. An inconstant slip extends from tiie cricoid cartilage to the lower end of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, forming the Kerato-Cricoid muscle. The Posterior Crico-Arytenoid muscle arises from the entire lateral half of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage. The muscle is in consequence broad and somewhat quadrangular. Its fibres pass upward and outward, and are inserted into the outer part of the musculo-articular process of the arytenoid cartilage. Action.—To abduct and rotate the arytenoid car- tilage, and in consequence to abduct the vocal cord. The Lateral Crico-Arytenoid muscle arises from the upper margin of the side of the cricoid cartilage. It is a small slip compared with the Posterior Crico-Arj'tenoid, and is apt to be continuous at its upper margin with the Thyro-Arytenoid. Passing upward and backward, it is inserted into the musculo- articular process of the arytenoid cartilage in front of the insertion of the preceding muscle. Action.—To adduct the arytenoid cartilages, and in consequence the vocal cord. The muscle is concealed from without by the tliyroid cartilage ; and upon its anterior part it is covered by the upper part of the Crico-Thyroid muscle. The Arytenoid is a single muscle, although occupy- ing the posterior surfaces of both arytenoid carti- lages. It is composed of two sets of fibres, a deep circular, the shorter of the two, often spoken of as the true arytenoid^ and a superficial oblique set, ' It was formerly supposed that the cricoid cartilage muscle was moved upward instead of the thyroid cartilage being moved down- ward. The expression in the text is based upon the researches of F. H. Hooper, Trans. Am. Laryngolog. Ass'n., 1883, 118. divided into two parts, which cross each other at an oblique angle. The latter are continuous anteriorly with the outer layer of the Thyro-Arytenoid muscle, or with fasciculi of the Thyro Epiglottideus muscle. Action.—To bring closely into apposition the aryte- noid cartilages and aid in adducting the vocal cords. Mei'kel has described a jiltnitn ventriculi by means of which the laryngeal pouch empties its secretion into the phaiynx. The Thyro-Arytenoid muscle (vocal muscle) arises from the lower part of the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage, and passes as a broad thin ribbon of straight muscular fibres horizontally across the side of the anterior portion of the larynx, just beneath the vocal cord, to be inserted into the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. Action.—To draw the arytenoid cartilage forward and thus relax the vocal cord, and to give tonicity to the vocal cord itself. Tiiis muscle is of great complexity, and presents a range of variation perliaps unequalled among the muscles of the body. Its general plan may be said to present an internal and an exieraa^ fasciculation, of which the internal preserves an intimate relation to the vocal membrane, and, what is especially noticeable, controls the free border of this mem- brane at the laryngeal pouch. It is inserted at the fovea oblonga and the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage. The external portion, at first intimately associated with the internal, is, on the whole, less compact, and sends delicate bundles upward toward the outer wall of the laryngeal pouch to the inner border of the arytenoid cartilage. Luschka describes, after Santorini, a distinct fasciculus which, wliile receiving the name of the Thyro-Aiytenoideus Superior, is in many respects distinct from the above. It ai ises from the base of the notch of tlie thyroid cartilage at the posterior margin, and is itiserted into the musculo-articu- lar process of the arytenoid cartilage, or may send slips down- ward to the cricoid cartilage or the crico-thyroid membrane. Still other fasciculi, whicii constitute tlie Thyro-Aryteno- Epiglottic muscle, pass between the points named as a thin layer of inconstant fibres. They aid in forming the ob- lique portion of the Thyro-Aiytenoid muscle. The Thyro-Epiglottideus muscle is an irregular delicate fasciculus Avhich arises from the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage to the outer side of the Thyro-Arytenoid, and ascends to be inserted upou the sides of the epiglottis. Action.—To depress the epiglottis and assist in closing the superior aperture of the larynx. The Aryteno-Epiglottideus muscle is upon the same plane as that of the preceding. It arises from the arytenoid cartilage, and is inserted upon the epi- glottis.