652 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 000§§00^^ thirds of the jejunum, and one only in the lower part of the jejunum. In an example of this rupture reported by Mason,' occurring in a man aged twenty, who slipped and fell on the j^avement, a small lace- rated wound was found in the upper part of the jeju- num, while in the last portion of the duodenum a clot of blood the size of a walnut was seen under the mucous membrane. In intestinal hernia the patient may (from the knuckle acting as a fixed point) suft'er rupture of the intestine from blows or falls. The rupture may occur at any point between the duodenal and hernial attachments. Poland cites three examples in which rupture of the intestine was coincident with hernia, and in all of these it was suspected that the hernial incarceration was a factor in the production of the lesion. The cases are almost necessarily fatal, and in the not unlikely event of herniotomy having been performed with the hope of relieving the condition, the real cause of mischief being obscured, medico- legal questions of great interest are apt to arise. Thus "a woman, affected with femoral hernia which occupied the labium, was struck by her husband on the abdomen, and died in twelve hours. The hus- band was convicted of having caused her death. The defence set up was, first, that the rupture occurred in the hernial sac, and that the rent in the bowel was caused by the efforts of the surgeon in reducing the hernia; and, secondly, supposing this not to have been the case, that the rupture was spontaneous and accidental from yielding of the diseased bowel. The arguments against these were, first, the pain came on immediately after the blow, second, the ruptured bowel was at a considerable distance from the sac, third, no inflammation or fecal matter was found in the sac, fourth, distinct external marks opposite to where the ruptured intestine lay, fifth, no appearance of ulceration of the mucous membrane." In very severe contusions from blows received in front, it is possible, especially in thin persons, to make the vertebral column serve as the fixed point. Deuch^ records a case of this kind, in which the ileum, as it lay across the vertebral column, just above the sacrum, suffered rupture from a kick; death ensued in twelve hours. Fragments of bone when swallowed become less dangerous after they leave the stomach, the osseous material becoming dissolved or disintegrated by the gastric juice. The rarity of the occurrence of ob- ' Lancet, 1865, ii. 183. 2 Vierteljalii-sschrift fiir Gericht. Med., Bd. xvi. H. 2. strnction from such causes is remarkable, especially in the case of the lower animals, if we reflect upon the fact that dogs frequently swallow fragments of bone of various dimensions without any inconve- nience. A case is mentioned of a female aged fifty- eight, who died of perforation of the ileum eight inches above the ileo-cfecal valve, caused by a frag- ment of beef-bone an inch and a quarter long, which had lodged crosswise near the constricted part of the bowel.' In obstruction of the small intestine, bands, the result of some previous inflammation, play an impor- tant role. They either form the bonds of union of the intestine to the omentum, to the mesentery, or to an adjacent coil, or may be lodged in openings formed by rupture of the mesentery or of the omentum. It has been estimated that nearly one-third of all cases of obstruction are due to one or more of the above causes.^ Grawitz^ has developed a theory of mechanical genesis of diverticuli colli (see p. 395, under mesenteric artery). THE LARGE INTESTINE. The Large Intestine (Plate LXIX.) extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is divided into ca3cum, colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. The large intestine constitutes from one-fifth to one- fourth of the entire length of the alimentary canal. It is five feet long and one-and-a-half to two-and-a- half inches wide. Largest at its origin, it gradually diminishes in calibre until it reaches the sigmoid flexure, from which it again slightly widens at the beginning of the rectum. Three longitudinal bands and a number of saccula- tions characterize the cjecum and the colon. The bands are confined to the fibrous layer, while the sacculations extend through all the coats; hence the former are seen only upon the periphery, but the latter are as well defined upon the inner as on the outer surface. After division of the bands the saccu- lations disappear. The description of the colon embraces— Ctecum. Vermiform Appendix. Ascending Colon. Transverse Colon. Descending Colon. Sigraoid Flexure. ' Lancet, 1860, 611. 2 W. W. Wagstaffe, St. Thomqs's Hosp. Rep., 1873. 3 Virchow's Arch., 1876, iy. The Colon. 4