THE PAEOTID GLAND. OOC^O<X= 629 Fleishman's cyst, and, in developing, makes little or no impression within the alveolo-lingual groove ; but, instead, expands within the supra-hyoid space.'—■ Erichsen^ records a case in which he found collec- tions of pultaceous caseous matter, probably seba- ceous in character. Bryant^ believes the sebaceous variety to be always congenital. Two cases came under his observation, both occurring in persons under twenty years of age.—The sublingual fold is often excessively enlarged as a complication of glos- sitis.—W. F. Clark* narrates a case in which the symmetrical enlargement of the sublingual folds, due to the irritation of a carious tooth, simulated cystic tumor. A horseshoe-shaped swelling was formed around the free portion of the tongue. The Salivary Glands. The Salivary Glands compose a system of racemose glands, six in number, which are arranged in pairs, and which open into the mouth. The salivary glands are—■ The Parotid. The Submaxillary. The Sublingual. THE PAROTID GLAND. The Parotid Gland (fig. 6, Plate XCIX.) is the largest of the salivary glands. It is lodged in the space between the lower jaw and the ear, which is hence known as the bed of the parotid gland. It extends a short distance downward below the lower jaw, forward over the posterior border of the Mas- seter muscle, backward over the Sterno-Cleido-Mas- toid muscle, and inward as far as the styloid process. The gland is smaller and more fixed above, larger and more movable below. It is covered by the com- pact parotido-masseteric fascia, which prevents the form of the gland from being discernible through the skin. The duct of the parotid gland, or the duct of Steno, is about two-and-a-half inches long, and a line in diameter; it extends forward, about eight lines below the zygomatic arch. It crosses the anterior border of the Masseter muscle, and terminates by penetrating the cheek opposite the first or second molar tooth. The gland embraces the external carotid arlery as it ascends to terminate in the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. ' Bell, Principles of Surgery. 3 Med. Times and Gaz., 1860. 2 Ibid. * Davies's Surgery, 220. The facial nerve crosses in its substance from be- fore backward, and the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve ascends through it. Two lymphatic glands, each about the size of a pea, lie at the upper border, and one at the lower border. The weight of the gland is from five to eight drachms. Variations—A separate mass of the purotid gland, com- monly of tlie size of an ahnond (socia parotidis), may be found lying at the anterior border of the Masseter muscle. The parotid duct infrequently divides at the anterior border of the gland into a slight upper and a stout inferior branch. Bloodvessels and Nerves.—The bloodvessels of the parotid gland are derived from the external carotid and the facial arteries. The gland receives nerves from the auriculo-temporal branch of the fifth nerve and from the anterior branch of the first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic system. Remarks.—In health the parotid gland cannot be said to have a well-defined capsule. But in diseased conditions a capsule is formed which enables the operator to enucleate the gland with comparative ease—the situation of the gland, and the important vessels traversing it, however, at all times making this a serious undertaking. It is important for several reasons to remember the bearings of the parotido-masseteric fascia. A swelling forming beneath it, as in mumps, is pre- vented from appearing on the surface, and is seen to best advantage upon the neck below the angle of the jaw/ or, more rarely, within the pharynx, where it interferes with deglutition and the depression and elevation of the lower jaw. Pus, forming beneath the fascia, gives little or no evidence of its presence. If a swelling due to this cause be present, it is of a flattened form.^ Sometimes the fluid, not finding vent externally, passes posteriorly, and finds exit into the external auditory meatus.^ When a tumor is removed from over the parotid gland, it follows that the parotido-masseteric fascia is destroyed : and should the growth recur, it will from this fact be more conspicuous upon the face, since its development no longer is resisted by the fascia."* The free inferior lobe of the parotid may be the seat of separate diseased action. Growths from this portion of the gland may affect the pharynx indirectly by pressure, or directly by transmitted diseased action. ' According to Monteggia (Malgaigne, Cliir. Anat. 1, 455), the swelling of the parotid gland in inflammation may press the con- dyloid process forward, thus simulating dislocation of tlie lower jaw. 2 Hyrtl, Topog. Anat., 1, 331. 3 Velpeau, Chir. Anat., 1, 2b'. 1 Hyrtl, Topog., loc. cit. 338. I