THE ALIMENTAKY CANAL. 642 JxXs^OOO — ■ The aortic curve of the oesophagus must be also regarded as a result of the ascent of the Diaphragm accompanying gastric rejoletion or similar condi- tions. Above the point at which the left bronchus crosses the oesophagus, an upper tract may be defined which is liable to invasion by diseased conditions from without, or to obstruction within; while the lower portion is free from any liability to outward pressure or internal occlusion. Out of nine cases examined with the object of determining at what point in the oesophagus foreign bodies may lodge, in seven the author has found that the obstruction existed in the tracheal curve, and in two only in the aortic. In both of the latter, the foreign substances were spicules of bone, and the cases presented un- usual features.^ It may be said that the region of the left bronchus and the region of the cricoid cartilage are favorite places, not only for the lodgment of foreign bodies, but for the initiation of diseased action. Thus, out of forty cases of disease examined, eight only appear to have been located elsewhere. Of the remaining thirty-two, ten were situated at the cricoid, twelve at or near the left bronchus, and ten were found in Avhich the disease, while below the left bronchus, indirectly involved that structure. The following table may be found convenient: Length of the oesophagus, ten to eleven inches:— The distance from the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to the tracheal bifurcation is from four and a half to five inches. The distance occupied by the left bronchus in crossing the oesophagus is about an inch. The distance from the left bronchus to the cardiac orifice of the stomach is from four to five inches. The end of the aortic arch is at about the third dorsal vertebra. From tlie incisor teeth to the cardiac end of the stomach, fifteen to sixteen inches. ' See Memoir by author, Pliila. Med. Times, 1877. From the incisor teeth to the left bronchus, from ten to ten and a half inches. From the incisor teeth to the upper edge of the arch of the aorta, nine inches. To the lower edge of the same, ten to ten and a half inches. The following conclusions are drawn from the fore- going statements:— (1) Foreign bodies are liable to be retained at the beginning of the oesophagus behind the cricoid carti- lage. (2) Passing this point, they do not, as a rule, reach the cardiac end, or " lower part," but are apt to be lodged just above the left bronchus as it crosses the oesophagus. (3) The cricoid region is exceedingly liable to in- vasion, and if the disease extends thence downward it is often limited by the left bronchus. (4) It is probable that diseased action may occa- sionally originate at the point of greatest narrowing of the thoracic portion, viz., just below the superior thoracic aperture. (5) The region of the left bronchus is very fre- quently attacked, the disease commencing either behind or just below it, and extending thence down- ward. (6) The cardiac end of the oesophagus is less fre- quently attacked than either the cricoid or bronchial portions. (7) Kesistance at or near the left bronchus can be detected by a probang meeting resistance at eleven inches from the incisor teeth. (8) The dangers attending the forcible use of the probang below the region of the cricoid become more manifest when the relations of the left bronchus are borne in mind. Variations The oesophagus may unite with tlie tracliea at a point about midway between the lower border of the cri- coid cartilage and tlie point of origin of the bronchi. Answer- ing to some portion of the oesophageal tract as it lies behind the trachea the oesophagus may be reduced to a small tube (atresia oesophagi) and afterward be abruptly dilated to its normal size The lower end of the oesophagus may be dilated EXPLANATION OF PLATE CI. Fig. 1. The muscular layer of the stomach. Fig. 2. The stomach, seen fi-om without. Fig. 3. The lower end of the rectum and the margin of the anus. The right third of the figure exhibits the mucous membrane dissected from the submucous connective tissue, the veins, and the internal sphincter muscle- fibres. Fig. 4. The structure of tlie male pelvis displayed by a transverse vertical (frontal) sectioji, and seen from behind.