THE STOMACPl, 6i5 o<:>O^Oo<; membrane is thickest, as toward the pylorus. The glands have an average diameter of five-hundredth to three-hundred-and-sixtieth of an inch. The entire nunaber of glands in the stomach is estimated bj Sappey to be 4,900,000. Each gland ends either simply, or by one, two, three, or even four divisions. The most com{)lex of these are situated toward the pyloric extremity. The glands may be divided into two groups, which are distinct in details of struc- ture. The first group, called the muciparous^ or pyloric glands, possess wide mouths, and are lined with columnar epithelium similar to that found else- where on the gastric mucous membrane. The deep tubular portions of the glands are lined with cubical granular cells. The second group, called i\iQ peptic or cardiac glands, are lined along the duct-like portions with columnar cells, while the fundus and the por- tion directly above it are furnished with short colum- nar or polyhedral cells (c. Fig. 174, pjrincipal cells^ chief cells, central cells), having free nuclei, and gran- ules. Lying between the principal cells and the base- ment membrane are a number of larger oval cells {p^ Fig. 174), which have received the name of the parietal cells (superadded cells). The tubular glands near the pylorus occasionally incline to the racemose type. Fig. 175. Appearance of the liaing membraQe from the cardiac extremity of the stomach, in an injected preparation. Bloodvessels. Arteries.-—-The arteries of the sto- mach are the left and right coronal, the right and left gastro-epiploica dextra and sinistra, and the short gastric arteries. Veins.—The veins are tributary to the portal vein, the mesenteric vein, and the splenic vein. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the anterior gastric plexus from the left pneumogastric nerve; and the posterior gastric plexus from the right pneumo- gastric nerve. Sympathetic nerves are derived from the coeliac plexus. Lymphatics. — The lymphatics join the coeliac glands. Variations.—Tiie stomach is sometimes found temporarily nan-owed transversely at a point midway between the cardiac and pyloric ends by over-action of the circular muscular fibres at the point of constriction. Albers' figures an ex- ample of a permanent constriction of the stomach which served to divide the viscus into two chambers or saccula- tions. This arrangement permits comparison to be made be- tween it and the condition normally present in the kangaroo. Eemarks.—The stomach in the foetus is nearly vertical by reason of the two nearest fixed points of the alimentary canal, viz., the oesophagus at the Diaphragm, and the terminal portion of the duode- num, being in a line but slightly deflected from the perpendicular. Coincident with the dilatation of the lower side of the organ, it becomes more obliquely placed, and the narrowed or pyloric end is carried to the right. These changes may be advantageously borne in mind in comparing the empty with a full stomach (figs. 4 and 5, Plate C). In fastiwj, the pyloric end of the stomach falls, and the entire organ is placed very obliquely if not nearly vertically in the abdo- men. In a word, it tends to return to the foetal or unused position. The fundus lies high up in the left hypochondriac region. The curvatures of the organ are scarcely apparent. The pylorus does not touch the liver, but lies near or upon the vertebral column at the level of the eleventh dorsal vertebra (Braune). The transverse colon lies across the organ, or may even be above it, when it will lie in contact with the Diaphragm (Hyrtl). In this event some coils of small intestine are apt to be associated with it. Hence the distressing flatus of some forms of ano- rexia, and the pain which is referred to the "side," i. e., left hypochondriac region, by anaemic females. The prolapse of the pyloric end in the adult when the stomach is empty is due to two causes: first, the increased weight of this portion of the viscus; second, the suspension of the organ by the oesopha- gus at the cardiac end. When the stomach is habitu- ally collapsed, the pylorus always lies below the plane of its normal position, and differs but slightly in ap- pearance from the first portion of the duodenum, and may, as in a case reported by J. W. Trotter,^ extend to a point one inch below the anterior superior 1 Atlas der Path. Auat., iv., Taft I. tig. 1. Trau.s. Path. Soc. Loud., iii. 318.