THE UEETIIRA OF THE MALE. ■ ooo^ocx; 709 THE UKETHRA OF THE MALE. The Urethra is that portion of. the genito-urinary tract extending from the bladder outward. The internal oritice is known as the internal meatus or vesical oritice; the external orifice as the cutaneous orifice or external meatus. The Urethra, when the penis is at rest, describes an (/)-like curve; the portion at the right end of the figure corresponds roughly to the pendulous divi- sion of the penis, and is known as the spongy portion of the urethra ; the portion at the left end of the figure represents the membranous and pms^a^/c portions. The length of the urethra is about six inches, of which the membranous and prostatic portions repre- sent each one inch, the remaining four inches pertain- ing to the spongy portion, and when the penis is erected it is si ghtly longer upon its anterior than its posterior surface. The portion lies between the bladder and the triangular ligament. It measures one-and-an- eighth to one-and-a-half inches in length. It is from one-fourth to one-third of an inch wide at its widest part, and gradually tapers thence to both the anterior and the posterior end. The prostatic portion is surrounded, as the name expresses, by the pro- state gland, a -layer of longitudinal muscle-fibres alone intervening. The floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra is marked by a conspicuous elevation called the veru moTblanimh (caput gallinaginis, calliculus seminalis, urethral crest), which begins at the base of the blad- der and terminates somewhat abruptly at the middle of the prostatic portion. It measures eight to nine lines in length by one-and-a-half lines in height, and is marked in the centre by an oval depression which is one-third to one-half of a line in width, and which constitutes the month of the utricle.—The utricle (uterus masculinus, sinus pocularis, pouch of Weber) is a flask-shaped chamber which measures two-and- a-half to six lines in leno'th, and from two to three lines wide. The utricle is held to be the homologue of the uterus, and in some animals is large, and is used as a reservoir for spermatic filaments. The late- ral margin of the utricle receives the ejaculatory ducts; or the ducts may empty into the depressions at the sides. Surrounding the veru montanum are the orifices of the prostatic follicles. The membranous portion lies between the two layers of the triangular ligament, about one inch below the pubic arch. It is in consequence the least extensible of any of the three portions of the urethra. It is nine lines in length on the antei'ior surface, and six in length on tlie posterior surface. The diameter of the canal at the proximal end of the membranous j^ortion is six lines, and at its distal end five-tenths of a line. The membranous portion is embraced by the Deep Perinei muscles,^ and is sometimes known as the cavernous portion.—The circular fibres are well de- veloped.^ The mucous membrane is plicated, but is Avitliout glands. The spongy portion is surrounded by a cavernous submucous layer, which is more abundant at the region of the bulbous portion of the spongy hoAy than elsewhere. This layer is succeeded by a thin layer of circular fibres, which in turn is embraced by the spongy body proper. The spongy portion widens at the region of the bulb to form the sinus buibi, and presents, from that point to a point near the region of the glans penis, a calibre of about one-and-a-half line, when it expands a second time to form the navicular fossa beyond which it again contracts to terminate at the meatus urinarius. The mucous membrane of the urethra is covered with columnar epithelium, except a tract about an inch or an inch and a half from the meatus, where it is covered with squamous epithelium. In the tract just named, a number of papillae are present. The mucous membrane of the urethra is thin and intimately associated with the submucous tissues. The membrane is plicated when not distended by urine or the seminal fluid. The spongy portion is furnished with a number of minute racemose sflands which have received the name of glands of Littre. The upper surface of this portion of the canal pre- sents several pockets which open forward and are termed the lacuna'. They are found sparse at the side and occasionally beneath. Cowper's Grlands.—The most important appendages to the spongy portion of the urethra are Cowper's glands (sub-urethral glands). These are glands of the racemose type, of about the size of peas, and are placed one on each side of the membranous portion, between the layers of the triangular ligament and 1 P. 328. * Luschka describes a Sphincter Uretlirce muscle wliicli is com- posed, according to Henle, of some irregular fibres of the Deep Transverse Perinei unconnected with, the raphe or with the puho- ischiatic liyament. Tliese fasciculi are striated, and should not be confounded with the non-striated true circular fibres.