778 ON MAKING POST-MORTEM EXAMINATIONS. ooO^^OOo For tlie Left Ventricle, beginning behind the base, and ending short of the apex. In making the incisions on the right side, the heart is held in the left hand, and rotated toward the left, so as to bring the right lateral border uppermost. In making those of the left side, the heart is seized toward the apex, drawn inwai'd and to the left, while the thick close-set lateral wall is caused to bulge out by gentle pressure. After the blood has been removed from the cavi- ties and examined, the heart is severed at its base by dividing the great vessels, a fair distance from the heart, and the pulmonary arteries and veins at the roots of the lungs. After removal, the capacity of the ventricles and the accuracy of closure are approximately determined by pouring water downward into the auricles and o;reat vessels. This is a reasonably accurate test for the semilunar valves, since they are normally closed by the recoils of the blood sent into the pulmonary artery or aorta, back against the cups of the valves. For the auri- culo-ventricular valves, however, it is necessarily im- perfect, since the force of the water does not imitate the normal act of closure, which is intricate, and can- not be performed apart from the living organism. The sections for the study of the valves are selected by following the lines of the natural passage of the blood. Incisions should be made with care through the anterior wall of the right ventricle to avoid injuring the anterior papillary muscle, the moderator band, and the small septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve. In opening the left auriculo-ventricular valve, it should be remembered how distinct its axis is as compared to that of the right side, and that one of the leaflets of the valve lies close to the septum, and may be injured by incautious adherence to a line too near that structure. By inserting the finger from the right ventricle upward along the pulmonary artery or from the left ventricle along the aorta until the ante- rior of the three corpora aurantii is felt, a pair of blunt-pointed scissors may be passed along the finger and the valve be divided without liability of injuring the leaflets. In the event of disease involving the entire respira- tory tract, or when the lesion is one requiring care- ful dissection of the parts at the base of the heart or the root of the lung, the best plan of procedure, after the organs have been carefully studied in position, and surrounding circumstances favoring, is to remove the thoracic viscera en masse inclusive of the trachea, larynx, and hyoid bone. This can be easily effected by making a vertical incision through the skin along the median line of the neck (the sternum having been previously removed), and the soft parts roughlj^ dis- sected to the sides. A transverse incision is now made above the hyoid bone downward to the vertebral column. The trachea is next seized with the left hand and pulled downward toward the thorax, the knife being held in the right hand in order to divide the vessels at the root of the neck as they become tense under the downward strain. Below the position of these vessels no obstruction exists to the easy separation of the aorta and other parts from the front of the vertebral column, and the evulsion of the entire contents of the thorax over the abdomen is soon accomplished. The removal of the various points of attachment is soon accomplished, and the organs can be placed aside in a preservative fluid for detailed study. In rupture of the arota into the pericardium, when the orifice is so small as to escape notice, it is recommended by Littlejohn^ to incise the left ventricle and pass the forefinger of the right hand into the aorta. " As the ruptured orifice is generally situated anteriorly, by simply pressing the finger against the wall of the vessel the slightest depression is detected, and then, on closer examination, the minute rupture is detected. Should any doubt remain, the aorta may be compressed at the arch, and some water injected upwards from the ventricle, when a tiny jet will quickly determine the site of the aperture." The Brain. This is examined after the abdomen and thorax. If it be examined first, the escape of venous blood from the sinuses will drain venous blood (particularly if the head is allowed to remain pendent from the edge of the dissecting table, as is often the case) from the venae cavse and heart. It is evident, however, that the reverse of this proposition is true, and if in the judgment of the operator the condition of the parts in the skull be of greater importance than those of the trunkal cavities, there can be no- thing to oppose, but, on the contrary, everything to favor the examination of the head before opening either the abdomen or the thorax. To examine and remove the brain the sections must be as follows: With a sharp knife the operator should penetrate the scalp over the ear, and, keeping the point upward, cut the scalp from Avithin outward, while the section is made toward the vertex, and from that region downward to the ear of the opposite side. 1 Edinbui-gli Med. Jouiii., lS7(j, lllG.