ANATOMY. TOPOGRAPHICAL SUPERFICIAL AND 730 OOO^OOC . grow, but they renew their activity as convales- cence progresses. G. Rolleston^ has recorded a curi- ous condition of the nails in cyanosis. Dr. J. M. Da Costa has demonstrated the utility of examination of the nails in doubtful cases of typhoid disease, with a view of determining the lines of growth-cessation of the nail. The transverse line of death is opaque white, the line of growth a translucent pink color.^ The form of the nail varies according to general conditions of nutrition. It is highly arched or clubbed in slow wasting disease, an appearance which was at one time thought to be characteristic of phthisis. In some forms of cyanosis the ends of the fingers have a tendency to whitlow.^ In subclavian aneurism the finger ends of the cor- responding band have been observed by A. Poland to be somewhat clubbed in shape, and cold and moist to the touch. The nails may be desquamating and of a dark-purplish color.* In a case of subclavian aneu- rism recorded by Langenbeck,^ a peculiar condition of the finger ends was reported as occurring at the time when a recurrent increase of the aneurism took place, after having been quiescent for a period of three years and apparently disposed to subside sponta- neously.— Suchard' has made a series of careful studies of the nails in diseased conditions. Errors of nail-growth correlate with similar errors in the development of the teeth, and it is probable that the milky spots in enamel are the effects of tem- porary arrest of development in the enamel-organs during the process of the evolution of these struc- tures. The nails of the first, second, and third fingers are more apt to exhibit the defects than are the nails of the fourth and fifth fingers, and all the fingers of the hands are more frequently affected than are any of the toes. Excessive growth of hair is often associated with supernumerary growth of the teeth and hypertrophy of the mucous membrane of the oral cavity. For an account of the Hair Follicles, the Hair, and the Glands of the Skin, see p. 43. SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND FACE. • The form of the skull can be easily determined by examination of the overlying soft parts. The posi- tion of the occipital, parietal, and frontal bones can be outlined as these structures enter into the vertex, and while in the infant the edges of the anterior and posterior fontanelles can be felt, the depressions answering to their former positions can be ascertained through the period of adolescence in those subjects in whom growth has been slow. The more common bony prominences which can be detected in the undissected subject are the following: the occipital protuberance, the superior semicii'cular line (inconstant), the temporal crest, the mastoid pro- cess, the external angular process of the frontal bone, the malar bone, the margins of the orbit, the super- ciliary ridges, the boundaries of the anterior nasal aperture, the zygomatic arch, and the nasal eminence. Within the mouth the incisorial and the canine foss^, ' Nat. Hist. Rev., 1861, 488. 2 Trans. Coll. of Physicians of Pliila., iii., 1876. ' C. E. Hasse, An Anat. Descrip. of Diseases of the Organs of Circulation and Resp. (Syd. Soc. Trans.), 178. ■> Mcd.-Cliir. Trans., lii. 296. 5 Berliner klin. Wooliensclirift, March, 1859, No. 12. the hard palate, the beginning of the mylo-hyoid ridges, and the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid bone can be determined. With the finger placed above the soft palate (see p. 150), the region of the true base of the skull can be felt, as well as the vomer as it aids in defining the posterior nares. The finger thrust up the nasal chamber from in front can ordinarily define the anterior end of the inferior turbinated bone and the under surface of the middle turbinated bone. The septum of course can also be distinguished. Among the more important relations by which can be made out external signs are the following : the great longitudinal sinus lies beneath the position of the sagittal and frontal sutures from the nasal emi- nence of the frontal bone and the production of this line backward as far as the occipital protuberance. The position of the lateral sinuses corresponds to horizon- tal lines drawn from the position of the protuberance last named to the bases of the mastoid processes. The junction of a vertical line extended upward from a point behind the zygoma with a horizontal line ex- tended backward from the external angular process of the frontal bone indicates the position of the great 1 Arch. Anat. et Pliysiol. norm, v.t pathol., n. s., x., 1862, 445.