ORGANS OF SENSE. E R R A T A. On pa-re 593, first columm, third line from top, insert the -words " in part" after the word "muscles." On same page, second column, sixth line from top, Jor "phthisis bulbo" read "phthisis bulbi." On same column, twenty-sixth line from the top, nmit the word " artery" after the word "ciliary." On page 597, first column, twentieth line from the bottom, insert the word 'visual" before the word "axis." On page 598, first column, first line, insert the word "until" before the word " recently." On same page, same column, for " into" read "toward." On same page, same column, in advance of word "pulsate" insert the word "sometimes." On page 599, first column, fourteenth line, for "capsule" read "suspensory ligament;" and on same page, same column, sixteenth line, in advance of the words "the vitreous body" insert the words " hyaloid membrane of." On page 599, second column, eleventh line from top, between the words "suspensory ligament" and "the posterior capsule and the lens" insert the words " the fibres to." On page 6.31, in description of Fig. 160, for "back" read "side." On page 760, first column, twelfth line from top, for " 749" read " 750." On page 760, second column, sixth line from bottom,/or "ducts" read "educts." On page 764, first column, seventh line from the bottom,/or "male" read "mole." On page 776, first column, eleventh line from bottom,/or "If the centre of attraction is the" read "If the centre of attraction of the." posed muscle aud so-callec' cartilage, and are designed to cover the front of the eye, as in the act of winking and in sleeping. Under the head of the eyelids may be considered the following subjects :— The Skin. The Palpebral Fissure. The Palpebral iijigaments. The Tarsal Cartila2;es. The Meibomian Grlands. The Eyelashes. The Muscles. The Skin of the Eyelids is thin, nearly translucent, and without subcutaneous fat. The skin of the 75 _ ^ .-J—J .—' - v™r " orbitale). This is a fibrous expansion continuous with the borders of the orbit. It is greatly strengthened toward the free edges of the palpebral fissure by the tarsal cartilaijes (palpebral cartilage), which, although so separately denominated, are only dift'erentiated portions of the palpebral ligament, being dense fibrous tissue with some admixture of elastic tissue. Each "cartilage" is thick at its free border, but thin at the upper. The upper tarsal cartilage is the larger, of crescentic shape, and measures nine lines long, and four lines wide in the centre. The Zoi/.w tarsal-car- tilage is nearly fusiform, or is ribbon shaped. The palpebral ligament lies as a compact layer two lines in length between the outer canthus and