THE REGION OF THE 0 M P IIA L 0-M E S E N T E EI C TRACT, ETC. 761 OOO^OOO . and diverticuli as causes of intestinal obstruction has been elaborately elucidated by R. II. Fitz.' (4) THE REGION OF THE OMPHALO-MESENTERIC TRACT, OF THE ALLANTOIS AND THE PLACENTA. Tliis includes the nutritive, circulatory, and respira- tory systems of the embryo. The blastodermic mem- brane is nourished by the lower layer of hypoblastic cells sending protoplastic processes into the umbilical vesicle. A marginal extension of the hypoblast and the splanchnopleure incloses the vesicle, and the con- tents are gradually appropriated. The remains of the umbilical (Fig.2oO) vesicle are known as the splanchnic Fi". 230. Formation of tlio ulinientary caual. n b, Coinnioncenieiit of the ainnion ; c intestines ; d, pharynx ; r, urinary bladder ; /, allantois ; ^, umbilical vesicle. stalJc. When the fcetus secures attachment to the walls of the uterus these remains are held to the under surface of the foetus by a long thin pedicle. The umbilical vesicle disappears as development progresses in (lie pig, the mare, the cetaceans, and the ruminant types, so that no trace of it can be seen in the membranes of" the advanced embryo. In the carnivorous animals, including the seals, it forms a well-defined sac in relation to the abdo- minal sac of the foetus situated between the allantois and the amnion. In tlie rabbit the umbilical vesicle readies the cliorion and forms a large sac in contact with a consider- able portion of tiiat membrane.'' While, however, this process of absorption is going on, a system of vessels is developed within the meso- blast of the embryo vvhicli supplants the protoplasm of the hypoblast in the work of carrying up into the embryo the liquefied contents of the umbilical vesicle. • Am. .Journ. of Med. Sci , N. S. clxxv. 1884, 30, literature ; see, also, variations of superior mesenteric artery and the omphalo- mesenteric artery, p. 395, and of the general consideration of veins, p. 411 of this book. ^ Introduction to Human Anatomy, W. Turner, 865. 97 This system of vessels has received the name of the omphalo mesenteric system. In time yet a third set of vessels is required (since the umbilical vesicle in mammalia at least is of temporary use only, and is not adapted for respiratory purposes), which is developed through the allantois^ an account of which structure necessitates some understanding of the membranes of the egg, for it is through the medium of the membranes that the allantois proves so efficient as an appendage to the circulatory and the respiratory systems. To the outer side of the medullary fold from the upper surface of the blastoderm, a pair of folds arise containing epiblastic and rnesoblastic elements which from their future use in forming the amnion are called the amnionic folds. Each of the amnionic folds approaches the median line over the position of the medullary folds, and by fusing with the corresponding fold on the opposite side of the median groove inclose the embryo in a special cliamber—the amniotic chamber-—-which is eventually lined with epiblastic pavement epithelium cells, and secretes the amniotic liquid (liquor amnii) (Fig. 231). The connection of Fig. 231. Human enibi'yo and its membranes in the early period of gestation, showing the formation of the umbilical cord. the amnion with the nutritive system of the fcetus is not included in this plan. To account for such inclu- sion it should be remembered that before the amni- otic folds meet a lateral growth of each fold is also announced which gradually underlies the zona pellu- cida in its entire extent, and constitutes the suhzoyial membrane (serous envelope) of the ovum (see Fig. 237). The wall of the impregnated egg is called the chorion. By the time development has so far advanced as to present an amniotic chamber, the chorion is everywhere covered with a great number of villus like processes, and is said to be shayyy.