THE TENSOR TYMPA.NI, ^XXO^OOO 609 brane, which forms with the short process a conspi- cuous feature at the bottom of the external auditory meatus. The processes of the malleus are two in number, the long and the short. The loyuj process (process of Foli) arises from the base of the handle at its anterior aspect. It is directed at first forward, and afterwards downward and forward as a thin, flat pointed blade which is finally received within the glenoid fissure. The short process is a small but conspicuous projec- tion from the anterior aspect of the base of the handle. It is directed outward, and is engaged in the tym- panic membrane, where it forms a whitish elevation already described. The long process represents the primordial axis of the malleus, and in the foetus is continuous with Meckel's carti- lage. In childhood it lies free in the glenoid fissure, but is liable to be mutilated in specimens obtained from adult sub- jects from its disposition to become anchylosed to the sides of the fissure. The Incus. The Incus (anvil) is situated in the chain of ossicles between the malleus and the stapes. It is composed of a body and two processes. The whole figure bears a resemblance to a bicuspid tooth— the body corresponding to the crown of the tooth, and the processes to the diverging roots. The body and the upper of the two processes lie above the upper margin of the tympanic membrane. The hody is compressed from within outward, and gradually di- minishes in volume from before backward. It pre- sents in front a subrounded saddle-shaped facet for articulation with the malleus. The uiyperprocess (?k\.ori.^ posterior, or horizontal process) is nearly horizontal, and is directed backward. The upper border is in- clined, while the lower is straight, and abruptly ter- minates where it lies against the posterior wall of the tympanic chamber above the position of the opening of communication with the mastoid cells. The loioer process (stapedial crus, long process) descends verti- cally in a line nearly parallel to the handle of the mal- leus. It tapers gradually toward its free end, where it is abruptly deflected inward to terminate in the lenticular process (lenticulare Sylvii, os orbiculare) by means of which the incus articulates with the stapes. The lenticular process is distinguished by an annular constriction at its base. In early life the lenticular process is a separate ossicle. The Stapes.—The stapes (the stirrup) is lodged between the incus and the oval window. It presents a head, a base, and two crura. The head is a rounded projection placed at the junction of the crura, and presents a concave surface for the lenticular process. 78 The base is kidney-shaped, and answers to the outline of the oval window. It is nearly straight on one side, and slightly convex on the other. The anterior crus is straight and shorter than the posterior. The space between the crura is marked by a faint groove for the reception of a thin membrane. The lenticular ossicle may become anchylosed to the stapes instead of to the incus. The borders of the base of the stapes are covered with hyaline cartilage.^ Variations The malleus may have a broad, foliated handle and a short neck. A scale-like ossification in the tympanic membrane may be attached to the malleus. The incus frequently exhibits a notch on the lower border of the upper process. Tiie lower process may be inclined toward the inner wall of the tympanum, and even fixed to it. The crura of the stapes may scarcely at all diverge, and the space between them be narrowed. The tendon of the Stapedius muscle may become ossified and anchylosed to the stapes. —The ossicles are always as large in the new-born infant as in the adult, and in some instances are even somewhat larger. The Ligaments of ilie Ossicles. . The malleus is fixed by three ligaments. The Anterior Ligament. The Superior Ligament. The External Lisrament. The Anterior Ligament extends from the long pro- cess to the tympanic bone. This ligament was for- merly thought to be a muscle, and received the name of Laxator Tympani. The Superior Ligament (axial ligament) passes from the head of the malleus to the temporal bone. The External Ligament extends from the neck of the malleus to the temporal bone. Under the head of the Posterior Ligament, Helmholtz describes a fascicle of the last-named ligament. The incus is supported by a single ligament which extends from the body of the bone, near the articular facet with the malleus, to the roof of the tympanum. The Muscles of the Middle Ear. The Muscles of the Middle Ear are— The Tensor Tympani. The Stapedius. the tensor tympani. The Tensor Tympani arises from the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone, from the sphenoid bone, and 1 Note to the description of the ossicles. In the above description, the ossicles are assumed to be in relation to the skull rather than to the membrane of the tympanum. A direction toward the face is in " front;" towards the occiput is " behind ;" toward the ver- tex is " above ;" toward the base " below ;" toward the tympanic membrane is " without;" toward the promontory " within," etc.