750 EMBRYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. c><><>^CX>^: been detached from a remote area of inflammation, and which thus obstructs an artery in a given region, impairs the rate of its development and growth ; in this manner an endocarditis of the right side of the heart may be associ- ated with absence of the riglit kidney, as a result of obstruc- tion with a thrombus of the corresponding renal artery.— Second, the bands of union already mentioned between the amnion and the integument. These appear to be more com- mon about the face than elsewhere. Forster^ has figured symmetrical bands, which were attached to both eyes, and a single band^ which extended from the mouth upward along the left side of the face. Similar methods of attachment may be associated with imperfect development of the face.^ The class of malformations in which parts are duplicated or are present in excess may also in part be explained by trophic action of nerves, since it is understood that in rapidly growing tissues a distur- bance in the normal relation existing between a given structure and the nerves supplying it will ter- minate not in atrophic but in hypertrophic conditions. Many examples, however, as in symmetrical dupli- cation either of a part of the embryo or of the entire foetus, cannot be so explained. As aids to the study of such conditions, the laws of morphology, as these are defined in the structures of animals and plants, are of importance. The mental attitude of the mother toward her off'- spring is often dwelt upon as a powerful factor in creating malformation; but while it cannot be dis- carded, it rests upon a less satisfactory basis than any of the general causes already outlined.—In a general way it can be said that all gross defects are examples of the manifold effects of malnutrition. Animals artificially raised or domesticated are more liable to have defective offspring than are those which can determine for themselves their surroundings; and human defects are more common among impover- ished than among well-nourished individuals. The correlations of deformities one to another indicate the harmonies present between the several parts of an organism. It has been found, for ex- ample, that cleft-palate and single kidney are often, associated. Defects of the hairs are apt to be asso- ciated with defects of the teeth and of the nails. Congenital defects of the oesophagus and the respira- tory apparatus, and of the deeper veins and the degrees of lobulation of the lungs, are often related. Parts arranged in serial order as the vertebrae, the several parts along an embryonic rod as a visceral ' Misbildmigen, PI. xxv. fig. 31. 2 Ibid., PL xviii. fig. 31. » Ibid., PL XV. fig. 22. arch, are commonly multiple. A nerve-centre, such as a motor-centre of the cerebrum, will modify the ai'ea controlled by that centre. In like manner, absence of the olfactory nerve and its cerebral tract will violently disturb tl>e formative processes of the region to which the peripheral filaments are normally distributed. The brain exerts a profound influence over the etiology of malformation. A tendency to cerebral precocity is found by D. Hunt to be associated with myopia. It is probable that the absence of myopia in the negro as determined by S. D. Risley is a correlation with the low rates of cerebral devel- opment in this race. It is also probable tliat true asymmetry of the nasal chamber has a similar causation. According to Lawson Tait,' geographical situation has much to do with the relative frequency of cleft palate. He instances the curious fact that all lion whelps born in the London Zoological Garden have cleft palate, while in other gardens this deformity is unknown. In some districts of Yorkshire, cleft palate would seem to be endemic, and is not merely a family peculiarity. One of the most important correlations in embryo- logy is that existing between the internal and external conditions of many parts of the body. The elements of the derm and epiderm appear to be under the trophic control of the deeper organs which they are in- tended to protect. Defects of the bladder correlate with defects of the skin over the region of the bladder; spina bifida, with the skin over the affected part of the vertebral column; a defect of the olfactory lobes or tracts, with the skin of the external nose, etc. In defects of the ovaries and testes, the external organs of generation are always in sympathetic re- lation. It is an open question to what extent a malformed foetus can be designated a genus, or to what degree the subdivision of each genus may receive the name species. So long as naturalists are not agreed as to the restriction of these terms in normal plants and animals, no exact premises can be presented by which the subject can be rationally discussed. A classification of monsters based upon the laws of de- velopment and the causes exciting aberration would, all things remaining equal, be the most satisfactory; but, in the absence of the data warranting such an attempt, it has been thought best to employ the nomenclature which has been sanctioned by custom. Isidore Geoff'roy St. Hiliare^ has proposed a classifica- tion of gross congenital defects based upon the prin- 1 Steiner's Compendium of Children's Diseases, Am. ed., 201. 2 Histoire Gen. et Partic. des Anomalies, etc. Paris, 1832-36.