THE LIVER. 659 ^XX^^^OOO The mucous membrane of the first portion of the rectum does not differ from that of the sigmoid flex- ure. At the beginning of the middle portion, how- ever, the variable oblique folds of Houston are seen. In the lower portion the folds are constant and longi- tudinal, and aid in limiting the rectal pouches. Below these is seen the flask-shaped end of the rectum, and at the terminus of the bowel are seen the corrugations of the anus. The mucous lining of the rectum above the anus in the position of the longitudinal folds and the pouches is liable to a variety of local diseases. The normal amount of mucus lodged therein is capable of being enormously increased, as in chronic affections of the rectum. The pouches themselves are occasion- ally the site of cyst-like collections, and may also afford lodgment for seeds, fragments of bone, etc. Stricture of the rectum is apt to be located either at the upper portion near the oblique fold of Houston or near the lower part at the longitudinal folds or ])ouches of Morgagni. The last-mentioned locality is almost universally the seat of the so-called venereal stricture so common in females. In twenty-one out of twenty-eight cases treated by T. Curling,• the stricture was within an inch to an inch-and-a-half of the anus. Polypi also occupy almost exclusively the lower por- tion of the rectum. They are rarely found higher up than an inch or an inch-and-a-half above the anus. Internal haemorrhoids protrude in defecation and carry with them the mucous membrane. Prolapsus of the rectum invariably takes place between the longitudinal and circular muscular fibres, which in the rectum preserve the same mutual rela- tions as those already noticed in the colon, so that the longitudinal fibres remain in position, while the mu- cous membrane and the circular fibres descend. Brodie mentions a case in which the intestine pro- trudeil at the anus, having effected entrance into the rectum by a slit on its anterior surface. Knowledge of the position and course of the rectum is of importance in introducing a bougie or the noz- zle of the enema syringe into the bowel. Cases have been recorded in which the intruding instrument was forced through the rectum into the peritoneal cavity or between the rectum and the sacrum. There is preserved in the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, according to T. Bryant,^ a specimen of the former lesion, in which the contents of the 1 Diseases of Rectum, 4tli ed., 122. ^ Practice of Surgery, 345. syringe had been introduced into the peritoneal cavity, where they were found after death. A depression in the anal region and the position of the genitals far back would lead to the inference that the rectum was absent.^ Longitudinal defects of the rectum consist either in retention of the embryonic state of the uro-genital sinus, with the rectum opening into it, or else in the rectum being defective in whole or in part. The rectum has been known to open into the bladder or vagina, conditions which make it possible for life to be sustained. In much more frequent examples, it ceases to exist as a canal, and the space between its cul-de- sac and the perineum is occupied by fibrous tissue. The lower end of the bowel may be insensibly lost in the general tissue of the parts, or may be com- pletely invested in peritoneum and possess a meso- rectum. When the rectum is obliterated at its first or second portions, no trace of the position of the anus is usually discoverable. But when it is con- tinued near to the skin the anus is more or less well defined, and may be almost as in the normal state save that it is impervious. In such a condition the acts of crying, coughing, etc. will cause the anus to bulge and move slightly downward. The large intestine may end at the middle of the transverse colon, as occurred in a reported case.^ The anus, strange as it may appear, was patulous, admit- ting the finger one half an inch. The child lived nine days. The skin about the anus is tightly adherent to the External Sphincter. In the relaxed condition of the parts due to protrusions, as in internal htemorrhoids and prolapsus, the skin forms a small basal covering to the mass. When the tumor is restored to the bowel, the skin in question remains around the mar- gins of the anus in loose pendulous folds. In ope- rations on the anus these folds of skin should never be removed or included in a ligature, since it has been shown that the formation of a cicatrix therein is accompanied with excessive contraction, sufficient, if at all extensive, to lead to narrowing, and indeed to partial obstruction of the anal orifice. THE LIVER. The Liver (figs. 2 and 3, Plate CII.; figs. 1, 4, and 5, Plate C.; fig. 1, Plate LXVIII.) is the organ for the secretion of bile. It is an appendage to the ali- mentary canal, yet it holds such peculiar relations both > CurliiiK, ibid. 201. 2 Lancet, i. 1839, 794.