THE LUNGS. x>Cj^§00^-- 691 by a blow, or the contusion of a carriage wheel. The trachea has been ruptured by the act of coughing.' A polyp of the trachea is described by W. C. B. Tifield^ which acted like a ball-valve at the orifice of the left bronchus, permitting expiration but imped- ing inspiration. Fracture of the larynx and rupture of the trachea are serious lesions. W. Ilunt^ found in studying the literature of twenty-seven cases that seventeen died. J. Atlee has reported a case of complete loss of con- tinuity in the cervical portion of the trachea in a child, which resulted in death in a few moments. THE BRONCHI. The trachea terminates in two branches, the right and left bronchi (fig. 2, Plate CIV., Plate CV.). The right bronchus, composed of six or eight rings, is the larger, though the shorter of the two, and passes downward and outward on the level of the fourth dor- sal vertebra. It divides into two (and sometimes three) branches, of which the upper and smaller passes to the upper lobe of the lung. The bronchi subdivide into smaller passages called bronchial tubes. The left bronchus measures two inches in leno-th, and is directed downward and outward at the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra. It is composed of from nine to twelve rings. According to Sappey, the bronchi near their origin correspond in front to the second intercostal space. Eemarks.—Ilyrtl has found that the right lung of the newly born infant is the first to be inflated.—For- eign bodies more frequently slip into the right than the left bronchus.—The lymphatic glands situated at the origin of the bronchi are capable, when enlarged, of compressing somewhat the tubes and diminishing their calibre.—The pericardium and the left auricle must be placed among the indirect clinical relations of the left bronchus from the circumstance that dis- eases of the pericardium and of the left auricle may compress this structure. W. T. Gairdner^ has found numerous examples of bronchial obstruction followed by emphysema and pulmonary collapse.—For rela- tions with Oesophagus see that structure. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the bronchial tubes are derived from the anterior bronchial branches of the internal mammary, and from the posterior bron- chial arteries which arise from the aorta. The > Bredsclnieider, Casper's Wochensohr. 1842, 461. ^ Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., 1861, Nov. 14. ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci., li., 1866, 378. * Mouth. Journ. Med. Sci., Edinburgh, 1850, 122. branches last named may arise from the third inter- costal arteries. The veins pass to the innominate veins and to the azygos vein. The nerves are de- rived frorn the inferior tracheal pneumogastric nerve. THE LUNas. The Lungs are the organs of respiration. They occupy the greater part of the thoracic space, and are composed of a right and a left lung. Each lung mav be said to be moulded to the shape of its own pleural cavity, and may be compared to a curve whose apex is directed upward, and whose base is directed down- ward. Each lung is again convex posteriorly, an- teriorly, and at the lateral side; but is nearly flat on the median side, and is concave inferiorly. The base is inclined slightly downward and backward, so that it reaches a point farther down behind and at the lateral side than in front. A transverse section of the lung at its apex is nearly circular, oval in form; at its lower portions it is palm-shaped, the narrow portion of the figure being directed forward and the base backward. The lung is everywhere free except at the region at which it is held in connection with the bronchial tubes and the pulmonary bloodvessels. These struc- tures, together with the bronchial arteries, veins, nerves, and lymphatics, form a narrow pedicle, which is known as the root of the lung. The lung may be said to hang by its pedicle, as a fruit by its stem. The pleural fold which covers the lung pedicle and aids it in supporting the lung has received the name of the liyameatum latum puhnonis. The right lung- pedicle lies in front of the azygos vein, the left be- neath the aortic arch, and partly in front of the de- scending portion of the aorta. The lung presents for examination— The Anterior Border. The Posterior Border. The Median Surface. The Lateral Surface. The Base. The Apex. The anterior lorder is compressed and presents an uneven contour. Upon the left lung this border is in- tended at its lower part for the accommodation of the heart. The jcos^er/or lorder of the lung is nearly twice the length of the anterior. It is broad and massive, and is accommodated within the pulmonary groove of the thorax. It lies between the median and lateral sur- faces ; from the former it is separated by a well- defined line.