bone. — A bursa has been described lying between the 1 W. Gibbs, Trans. Path. Soo. London, 18GG, 39. THE CARTILAGE OF THE EPIGLOTTIS. 000^00= 681 posterior fourth. The Sterno-Thyroid, Thyro-Hyoid, and Inferior Constrictor muscles are attached to this ridoe. The smooth surface behind and below it lodges in part the thyroid body. Near the upper border of the outer surface, not far from the base of the greater horn, a foramen is occasionally seen for the transmission of the superior laryngeal artery. The inner surface is smooth and slightly concave. It is related above with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, behind and below with the lateral Crico- Arytenoid muscle. The ujrper border is larger than the inferior. It is concave directly in front of the base of the greater horn, but convex toward the inner margin, thus making for the entire border a sigmoid curve. At the union of the upper borders of the two plates a deep notch is seen which has received the name of the thyroid incisure. The upper border gives attach- ment to the thyro-hyoid membrane. The lower lorder is wavy, and gives attachment to the Crico- Thyroid muscle, at the sides, as well as to the crico- thyroid membrane. The posterior lorder is free, rounded, and is continuous upward with the corre- sponding border of the cornu. It gives attachment in part to the Inferior-Constrictor, Stylo-Pharyngeus, and Pharyngo-Staphylinus muscles. The anterior bor- der joins the plate of the opposite side. The sicjjerior cornu is much larger than the inferior, and is directed upward and slightly backward. Its free extremity affords attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The inferior cornu is thick and stout. It is furnished upon its inner surface with a facet for articulation with the cricoid cartilage. The conjunction of the two plates anteriorly forms the prominence known in the adult male as Adam's apple. In the female and in children of both sexes this prominence is less pronounced, and the angle of the plates is less acute than in the adult male. Viewed from behind, the re-entering angle of the two plates presents the following features: First, the upper part for the attachment of tlie epiglottis, and false vocal cords. Second, the middle part for the attachment of the true vocal cords. Third, the inferior part for the attachment of the Thvro-Aryte- noid muscle. Between Aflam's apple and the skin lies a bursa, which ascends perpendicularly to a point near the hyoid bone, and then passes behind it. This bursa is congenital, and appa- rently belongs to the thyro-hyoid membrane rather than to the thyroid cartilage. It facilitates the gliding of the thyroid cartilage over the anterior border of the hyoid 87 thyroid cartilage and the hyoid bone. It is occasionally the seat of hypertroi)liy. This condition has been named "thyro-hyoid cyst" by Gibbs, " sub-hyoidean ranula" by Nelaton, and " hyoidean liygroma" by Mackenzie. THE CARTILAGE OF THE EPIGLOTTIS. The Cartilage of the Epiglottis is a vertical, leaf- shaped lamina of fibro-cartilage situated at the front of the larynx. It is broad above and narrow below, where it is attached by a portion of the thyro epiglot- tic ligament to the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage. It is also attached in front at its basal por- tion to the hyoid bone, to the hyo-epiglottic ligament, and to the base of the tongue, so that its free surfaces are restricted to the posterior as[iect and the superior half, nearly, of the cartilage, which is there partially invested with mucous membrane. The first of the free surfaces constitutes the ante- rior border of the laryngeal aperture; while the second lies at the base of the tongue. The posterior surface (laryngeal surface) is concave above, but convex below, where it presents a rounded eminence, the tubercle or cushion. The anterior sur- face is slightly concave. The margins are for the most part obscured by folds of mucous membrane ex- tending either backward to the arytenoid cartilages, as the aryteno-ej)iylottic (ary-epiglottic) folds, or late- rally to the walls of the pharynx, as the fliaryn- (jo-epiylottic folds, which are often continuous with the palato pliarynyeal folds. Between the free portion of the epiglottis and the base of the tongue are three folds of mucous membrane, two lateral2A\^ one median. The median fold (epiglottido glossal frenum) is the stoutest of the three, and contains, according to Cru- veilhier, some elastic tissue. The posterior surface of the epiglottis, when the mucous membrane is removed therefrom, is found to be marked by numerous pits for the reception of mucous glands. Remarks.—The clinical remarks on the cartilages of the larynx are naturally grouped under the heads of the cartilao;es themselves. The cricoid cartilage.—The posterior (i)haryngeal) surface of the cricoid cartilage is often the seat of diseased action, inducing pharyngeal spasm and dys- phagia.^ Necrosis, with subsequent inflammatory involvement of the oesophagus, is a recognizable lesion of the cartilage, the sequestrum at times effecting an exit into the pharynx or oesophagus. The cartilage corresponds to the bodies of the lifth and sixth cervical vertebraa.