THE SMALL of the pyloric portion has been observed in cancer of the pylorus. In diaphragmatic hernia the stomach and a portion of the transverse colon may be found lodged in the left side of the thorax. The conspicuous relation existing between the greater curvature of the stomach and the omental cavities occasionally enters into a study of the morbid anatomy of the organ. Thus Brinton records a case of perforating ulcer of the stomach which opened into the cavity of the lesser omentum. Ponfick' de- scribes in detail an aneurism the size of an almond situated on the right gastro-epiploic artery, which, bursting, escaped into the peritoneum, and the blood passed into the tissues along the base of the great omentum. Perforating ulcer of the stomach and cancer of the stomach may communicate with the colon.—Accord- ing to Pavy, ulceration of the stomach may prove fatal by opening into a branch of the splenic artery.^ The Small Intestine. The Small Intestine (fig. 4, Plate C; Plate LXIX.) is that portion of the alimentary canal between the stomach and the colon. It measures from twenty to twenty-five feet in length, and constitutes about two- thirds of the length of the digestive apparatus. This enormous bulk of tissue is entwined in coils held together by the mesentery, and occupies the umb'.li- cal region, although potions may be found in an}^ of the regions of the abdomen. The small intestine is larger above than below, a fact which has led some authorities to speak of it as funnel-shaped ; the difference in the diameters scarcely warrants this comparison, however, though it is known that the measurements slightly diminish as the lower portion of the ileum is reached. The canal is divided into three portions, the duodenum, the jejunum, and the ileum. The Duodenum.—The Duodenara (fig. 4, Plate CII.) is the smallest of these divisions, and is without mesenteric attachment. It extends from the pylorus at the right of the first lumbar to the left side of the third lumbar vertebra, and is fixed at its transverse portion by the superior mesenteric artery and by the pancreas. It is somewhat horse-shoe shaped, with its concavity directed to the left, and measures twelve inches in length. It is divided for purposes of de- ' Virchow's Archiv, Ix^ii., 1876, 384 (fig.). 2 Med. Times and Gaz., 1866, 35. INTESTINE. 617 scription into three portions, the ascendiny (upper border of horseshoe), the descending (the curve of the horseshoe), and the transverse (the lower border of the horseshoe). The ascendiny, or the shortest portion, starts from the pylorus of the stomach, and is directed upward, slightly backward to the right, where it lies in con- tact with the neck of the gall-bladder and the under surface of the liver. In front are the gastro-colic omentum and the abdominal parietes. Behind are the hepatic vessels and the gastro-hepatic omentum. The ascending portion ends abruptly in the descending portion which lies either upon or along the inner border of the kidney. It is embraced by the pancreas at its median anterior and posterior borders. The hepatic flexure of the colon is in front, while behind are situated the inferior vena cava and the common biliary duct. The terminal portion is slightly the longest while the narrowest of the three. It passes across to the left side of the third lumbar vertebra to terminate at an angle in the jejunum. It is lodged deeply in the sub- stance of the transverse mesocolon. Behind are the inferior vena cava, the thoracic duct, the aorta, the vertebral column, and the crura of the Diaphragm. Above lies the pancreas; in front, the stomach, from which it is separated by the peritoneum of the sac of the greater omentum. The peritoneum forms a covering of the duodenum in the same manner as in the other divisions of the small intestine, except in its descending portion where the posterior surface is within the retro-peritoneal space. The Jejunum and the Ileum.—The Jejunum and the Ileum may be considered together. They form a continuous tract measuring from fifteen to twenty feet in length, united posteriorly to the vertebral column by a long mesentery. The division is arbi- trary. By general consent the first two-fifths have re- ceived the name jejunum, and the remaining three- fifths the name of ileum. The walls of the former are somewhat thicker than those of the latter. The jejunum begins slightly to the left of the median line at the second lumbar vertebra; and the ileum termi- nates at the ileo-cfiecal valve in the right iliac region. The general direction of the intestine is from left to right, and the mesentery of necessity pursues a simi- lar direction, becoming broader as it descends from the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro-iliac junction. When the jejunum and the ileum are empty they sag and in the main lie in the hypogastric region. In the emaciated subject they may be dragged down