THE TONGUE. 627 ooO^OOc^ congenital causes, but from those acquired as from paralysis. Romberg' has described a case of unilateral atrophy of the tongue. Eemarks.—The applications of a knowledge of the anatomy of the tongue to the study of disease are numerous and important. They will receive attention under the following heads : (a) the cortical portion ; (h) the medullary portion; (c) localization of diseased action in the basal and apical portions; (d) fixation of the tongue ; (e) distribution of the ftir. (a) The cortical portion of the tongue is the seat of a peculiar atrophic disease incident to syphilis, which has received the name of " bald tongue." It is recog- nized by the presence of smooth glossy patches which are remarkable for the absence of fur which may coat elsewhere the entire cortex. In a rarer disease —ichthyosis of the tongue—the cortical portion forms a white layer which has been compared to wet leather, or to a thin film of boiled albumen. It may be re- garded as a form of epithelioma. Lingual cancer is believed by J. Hutchinson to be always of epithelial origin.—-The circumvallate papillae are often enlarged in strumous subjects. (b) The medullary portion. The medullary portion, composing as it does by far the major portion of the organ, is remarkable for the ease with which it recovers from injury, and the size which it may attain in acute inflammatory conditions. In the treat- ment of wounds of the tongue it is well to remember that sutures are retained with difficulty. It is re- commended to close the jaws firmly, so as to compel the injured organ to lie upon the floor of the mouth, and within the embrace of the sides of the inferior maxilla. In a wound of the medulla the adaptation is perfect when the tongue is thus placed. (c) 2'he localization of diseased action in the hasal and apical portions. The circumvallate papilla? divide the tongue into two regions: one, comprising the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum, being supplied by the lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve; the other, the posterior third, by the glosso-pharvn- geal nerve. The anterior region lies within the mouth, is almost without glands, and is covered by a derm-like involucrum closely held to the muscle; the posterior third lies within the pharynx (fig. 7, Plate XCIX.), is rich in glands, and is loosely covered by a thin, smooth mucous membrane. Cancerous disease ahvays begins in the anterior portion, and only passes behind the line of the cir- cumvallate papillae when the disease is wide-spread, the parts directly beneath its nidus being first in- volved. The disposition of the lymphatic vessels easily accounts for this fact. These vessels are numer- ous on the dorsum of the tongue, and are especially so, according to Sappey, until the line of the cir- cumvallate papillae is reached, when they abruptly cease, a few only passing to the pharyngeal portion. Nearly all of them unite to form on either side a main vessel of descent, which passes vertically through the muscular structure, and joins its special gland near the anterior belly of the Digastric muscle. Though the most common course of the disease is as above given, the pharyngeal region may be involved by cancer from in front. J. H. Moore' divided the lingual nerve for the relief of pain from cancer in the anterior part of the tongue; the relief was perma- nent as far as the lingual nerve was concerned, but when the disease invaded the area of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, the pain recurred. The presence of large numbers of glands in the pharyngeal portion of the tongue would suggest the frequent occurrence of glandular lesions here. They are, however, rare. In those few examples of cystic disease which have been recorded, no mention is made by the writers of the strictly local character which our knowledge of anatomy would lead us to expect this disease to assume. It is, however, likely that a cyst, forming at the base of the tongue, would find less resistance toward the fatty centre of tlie "medulla" of the tongue than toward the pharyngeal contour ; a view which would harmonize with Salter's observation, that the branches of the follicles are often lodged in the parenchyma fully one-half or three-quarters of an inch from the orifice of the p'land. The ""lands at the base of the tongue are capable of producing a free secretion of thick mucus. The following case^ is given in exemplification of this fact, and also to show how long-continued pressure may be borne in a locality noted for its resistance to slight intrusions. A male, aged sixty, had for three months suffered from an abundant secretion of tena- cious mucus in the pharynx, with hacking cough, and some dysphagia. After many attempts had been made by the patient to relieve the symptoms, the recorder extracted an upper set of artificial teeth from the pharynx, where they had rested directly upon the base of the tongue.—The glands are fre- quently hypertrophied in persons disposed to tuber- 1 Klinische Ergebbnisse, Berlin, 1846; also J. H. Bennett, Clini- cal Lectures on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, tig. 122. 1 Proc. Medico-Chir. Sec, 1862. 2 J. Paget, Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 18, 1862, 59.