OKGANS OF SENSE. H36 =sOO^OOC- Defining the anterior wall of tlie naso-pharynx are the posterior nares and the posterior free edge of the vomerine septum. At the sides are the openings of the Eustachian tubes. On either side, extending ob- liquely from the lower borders of the tubes to the soft palate, is a fold of membrane covering the Leva- tor Palati muscle known as the salpinyo-palatal fold. Between the orifice of the Eustachian tube on each side and the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx is a depression, chiefly defined by the inward (pharyngeal) projection of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, known as the fossa of Roseyimuller. Hanging from the roof of the chamber is the so-called -pliarymjeal tonsil, which is a sessile collection of lymphoid bodies. The naso-pharynx is about one-and-a-half to two inches in height and from eight lines to one incli in width. The Oro-pharynx (fig. 7, Plate XCIX.) is less con- stant in form than the preceding. The chamber nar- rows below where it is continuous with the larvngco- pharynx. The oro-pharynx extends from the inferior border of the soft palate (and its produced plane) to the level of the cornu of the hyoid bone and to the parts ex- tending thence backward on that plane. Upon the late- ral wall lies the tonsil, and behind the tonsil, extending from the soft palate to the lower part of the pharynx, is a conspicuous fold over the Palato-Pharyngeus mus- cle, named from its situation the palalo-jiharijnyeal fold (posterior half arch). In front of the tonsil is a second fold, much smaller than the foregoing, which is the palato-tjlossal fold (anterior half arch), and which answers to the position of the Palato-Glossus muscle. The space between these folds on the side of the pharynx, and occupied by the tonsil, is called the tonsillar space; that between the two tonsils, the inter- tonsillar space} The space between the palato-glossal folds is the oro-pKarymjeal aperture; that between the ' The author proposed these terms in a memoir entitled " Tlie Soft Palate in Health and Disease," Trans. Am. Med. Assoc., 1872, 537. palato-pharyngeal folds, the naso-pharyngeni aperture. The posterior free edge of the soft palate forms at once the upper margin of both the preceding apertures. The Laryngo-Pharynx extends from the level of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. It is defined in front by the basal third of the tongue. Bloodvessels.—The arterial supply of the pharynx is derived from the ascending pharyngeal branch of the external carotid and the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery ; it includes also small twigs from the internal maxillary. The veins form a plexus which empties into the internal jugular vein, though some are bubulary to the occipital veins. Luschka recommends cupping the nape of the neck to relieve pharyngeal conges- tions. The same writer^ speaks of frequently finding varicose conditions (with contained concretions) of these veins. Often some of the veins of the soft palate and the interior of the pharynx are visible on inspec- tion of the parts in the living subject. Nerves.—-The nerves are derived from the pharyn- geal plexus and branches of the pneumogastric nerves, and the spheno-palatine ganglion. The sensibility of the naso-pharynx is much lower than is that of the oro-pharynx or that of the laryngo-pharynx. A foreign body may be retained in the naso-pharynx without exact sensations as to its locality. The sen- sibility of the laryngo-pharynx is more highly de- veloped than that of any other portion of the pharynx. The inferior portion of the pharynx receives branches from the laryngeal nerves. The pharyngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve forms upon the surface of junction of the larynx and pharynx (recessus pharyngo-laryngeus, Luschka) a fold of mucous membrane which has been named by HyrtP the plica nervi laryngei. ' Schlundkopf, Tubingen, 18(38, 113. 2 Lehrbueh der Anatomie, 657. EXPLANATION OF PLATP: XCIX. Fig. 1. The permanent teetli of the upper jaw in position, .seen from beneatii. Fig. 2. The permanent teeth of one side of both the upper and til6 lower jaw. Fig. 3. The deciduous teeth of tlie upper jaw, seen from below. Fig. 4. The oral aspect of the soft palate and related parts. Fig. .0. The deciduous teeth of the lower jaw. Fig. 6. Tlie Parotid and submaxillary salivary glands in position. Fig. 7. The pharynx, represented as opened from behind in order to display the naso-pharynx, the base of the tongue, and the larynx. A portion of a glass-cylinder, which has been placed in the ujsophagus to distend it, is seen at the lower part of the figure.