THE STOMACH. 643 oOO^OOo — 60 fis to form a chamber antecedent to the stomach—an ar- rangement which is suggestive of the proventriculus of the bird. Luschka refers to the case of a man who actually ruminated by means of an enlargement of this cliaracter— Of great rarity are examples of duplication of the fcsopha- gus The oesophagus and the aorta may pass through the Diaphragm together. Bloodvessels.—The oesophagus is supplied bj the oesophageal branches of the aorta. The ferns are tributary to the intercostal veins, and to the hemiazygos and azygos vein. Bristowe' has found hemorrhages from varicose veins lying beneath the mucous membrane to be the exciting cause of death in a case of ulceration of the oesophagus. Nerves.-—The nerves of the oesophagus are derived from the anterior and the posterior oesophageal plex- uses of the pneumogastric nerves. Lymphntics.—The lymphatics pass to glands lodged in the posterior mediastinum. THE STOMACH. The Stomach (figs. 1, 2, Plate CI. 4, 5, Plate C.) is that portion of the alimentary canal designed for the reception of food during the first stage of digestion. It is a retort-ahaped sac, placed between the oesophagus and the duodenum. It is the most expanded portion of the alimentary canal, and though its size is neces- sarily subject to great variation, it may be given as follows, viz.: length, 9 to 12 inches; diameter, 4 to 5 inches; greatest circumference, 13 inches; least circumference, 3 inches ; vertical measurement at cardiac end, 11 inches; weight, 4 to 4| ounces; capacity, about 62 fluidounces. This organ is slightly smaller in the female than in the male. The base, or most expanded portion, is called the fundus (cardiac extremity). The narrowed portion for about three inches from its termination in the duodenum is called the antrum pylori, and pre- sents a slightly swollen appearance, as its borders somewhat disturb the regularity of the contour of the entire organ. The point of communication with the gullet is the cardiac orifice, which is placed seve- ral inches to the right of the fundus. The communi- cation with the duodenum is called the pylorus (pyloric orifice). The shortest curvature between these orifices is called the lesser curvature; the long- est curvature between them is called the greater cur- vature. The two curves as they approach the antrum pylori undergo a change in form, both presenting a 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1857, 175. wavy contour as they define the upper and lower wall of the pylorus. The stomach is situated in the epigastric and left hypo- chondriac regions, a small portion only of the pyloric ex- tremity projecting into the right hypochondriac region. It is estimated that five-sixths of the stomacii lie to the left of the median line and one-sixth lies to the right. Relations.—Above the stomach are the Diaphragm and the left lobe of the liver; below is the transverse colon. To the right is the spleen; to the left is the liver; in front is the abdominal wall; behind are the pancreas, the portal and superior mesenteric veins, and in part the spleen and great vessels. The cardiac end lies above the left kidney. The exact relations are of necessity modified by the condition of the stomach, whether full or empty. When empty, the organ is nearly perpendicular, the lesser curvature being almost continuous with the gullet, the pylorus depressed, and the two curvatures disposed to the right and left. When the organ is ftdl, it rises so as to present its lesser curvature posteriorly and its greater curvature anteriorl3^ The pyloric end is near the anterior abdominal wall, and is more mobile than the cardiac end, which is fixed by a fold of peritoneum called the gastro-phrenic ligament. For additional relations see Remarks. According to Sibson, the cardiac orifice of the stomach is situated to the left of the ninth and tenth dorsal spines. A small portion of the fundus lies between the base of the left lung (the Diaphragm alone intervening) and the supra-renal capsule. This exposed portion of the stomach is, however, covered by the lung, when the left base descends so as to be interposed between the surface and the supra-renal capsule. The attachments of the stomach are as follows: 1. A relatively strong doubling of peritoneum ex- tending from the Diaphragm to the lesser curvature of the stomach called the gastro-phrenic ligament (supra). 2. A thin broad fold passing from the pyloric end to the transverse fissure of the liver, called the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. 3. A short fold between the cardiac extremity and the spleen,—the gastro-splenic fold. 4. A fold from the greater cur- vature to the colon,—the gastro-colic fold. Structure.— The stomach is described as having four coats, named in their oi'der from without inward the serous or peritoneal, the muscular, the submucous or areolar, and the mucous.