THE FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. »oo^oo<= 713 of the vas deferens after it has received the vesicula seminalis. It is a short tube, measuring one-half to three-quarters of an inch in length, which lies near the base of the prostate gland, and, penetrating the gland, converges toward its fellow of the opposite side, at the same time curving forward and upward to a point near the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra, when the two tubes abruptly assume a parallel position, having the utricle between them, and empty into the urethra at the side of the veru montanum.— The walls of the ejaculatory duct are thinner than those of the vas deferens which they resemble. The epithelium is of the flat variety, and the muscular coat, according to Ilenle, is cavernous. Bloodvessels.—The arteries are derived from the iuferior vesical and the middle hemorrhoidal. The veins are tributary to the pudendal plexus. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the inferior vesical plexus. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics join the hypogastric gland. THE COVERINGS OF THE TESTICLE. The Testicle and the terminal portion of the sperm- atic cord are lodged in the scrotum, a musculo-cuta- neous pouch or bag situated at the lower portion of the trunk in front of the perineum. The left testicle being somewhat the larger, hangs a little lower down than the right, and the corresponding half of the scrotum is the more capacious. The median line is marked by a raphe which is extended upward upon the under surface of the penis, and is continuous with the perineal raphe. The skin of the scrotum is thin, of a darkish tint, and furnished with numbers of short flattened hairs whose follicles with their asso- ciated sebaceous glands are conspicuous through the skin. The scrotal septum (septum scroti) extends the entire length of the region, and separates it into halves. The coverings of the testicle may be arranged for convenience in tabular form as follows : — Skin. Dartos. Intercolumnar Fascia Cremasteric Fascia, and Cremaster Muscle. Infundibuliforni Fascia, or Fascia Propria. Tunica Vaginalis. 91 Coverings of the Testicle. > Integumental (scrotal). "1 Coverings derived from the ab- dominal wall. General connective tissue about the testicle, and de- rived from the transversalis fascia and the sub-peritoneal connective tissue. Serous membrane derived from the peritoneum. The Dartos is a layer of non-striated muscular fibres which belongs to the tegumental system. "When it contracts, it causes the skin to crease. Under the influence of cold the dartos contracts, but relaxes under the influence of warmth. The Intercolumnar Fascia (Cowper's fascia) extends from the pillars of the external abdominal ring, and passes down over the testicle beneath the dartos. The Cremaster muscle is composed of a few sparsely distributed loops of muscle-fibres, which, it is believed, originate from the Internal Oblique muscle. Associated with them, and constituting part of the same covering, is a thin layer of connective tissue, the cremasteric fascia. The Fascia Propria (fascia propria of Cooper), infundibuliform fascia, which lies beneath the Cre- master, is a layer of connective tissue which en- velops the testicle. It is continuous with the tratis- versalis fascia and sub-peritoneal connective tissue at the external abdominal ring. The Tunica Vaginalis is a serous membrane cover- ing the testicle. Like serous membranes elsewhere, it possesses two layers—a visceral and a parietal. The visceral layer covers the outer aspect of the testicle and epididj^mis; the parietal layer is in contact with the fascia propria. In retraction of the testicle the organ loses first the inter- columnar, then tlie cremasteric coverings, and finally the fascia pro[)ria Rektorzik' has described little club-sliaped masses upon the outer covering of tiie cord. These are suspected to be of tlie same nature as the Pacchionian bodies of the arach- noid membrane Travers has described a hernia lodged in tha processus vaginalis A rudimentary form of dartos has been detected by Sappey in the lahia majora.—The Cre- master muscle acts with the abdominal muscles, and is contracted in such acts as coughing, crying, etc. It draws the testicle upward and outward The dartos raises the testicle vertically. The Female Organs of Generation. The account of the Female Organs of Generation will include— The Ovary. The Fallopian Tubes. The Uterus. The Vagina. The Vulva.2 1 Sitz. der Wien. Acad., 1857, 23, Bd. p. 134. * The account of the Urethra of the Female is appended to this group for convenience.