654 THE ALIMENT ARY, CANAL. !>o-O^C>Oo transverse portion backward to the vertebral column, and separates the stomach and the pancreas from the rest of the abdomen. The Descending Colon begins at the splenic flexure and ends at the sigmoid flexure. It closely resem- bles the ascending portion, but is commonly more deeply seated, being concealed by coils of jejunum. According to Sappey, it is a little longer than the right, and is more closely related to the inner surface of the ribs. The structure of the cajcum and the colon is simple. The longitudinal bands of muscle fibres are three in number, one on the inner, one upon the anterior, and the remaining one upon the posterior surface. The circular fibres are less conspicuous than in the small intestine, but present no peculiarity of interest. The mucous membrane is thinner than in the small intestine, and is without villi. The closed glands are somewhat larger than in the small intestine, and not arranged in patches as in the ileum. They are most abundant in the vermiform appendix and the cajcum, gradually diminish in number thence within the as- cending colon, and are commonly absent from the remainder of the bowel. The follicular glands, how- ever, are everywhere numerous. Their open mouths present minute blackish points over the surface of the membrane. The epithelium is columnar. The Sigmoid Flexure.—The Sigmoid Flexure is that portion of the large intestine which intervenes between the descending colon and the rectum. As the name implies, it is conspicuous for its S-like form, which causes it to extend forward and down- ward from the left iliac fossa. It is usually described as terminating at the sacro-iliac articulation, but in this respect it is exceedingly variable. The sigmoid flexure is held by a distinct peritoneal attachment to the iliac fossa. The sigmoid flexure is the most movable portion of the large intestine. Its minute structure recalls that of the colon. In congenital absence of the rectum, the sigmoid flexure is so often observed to be thrown over to the right iliac fossa, that Huguier has proposed to form an artificial anus through the right iliac fossa rather than the left. Remarks.—Under the practical i-emarks upon the colon may be considered [a) displacements; (b) torsion; (c) intussusception ; {(I) and the presence of diverticuli. (a) Displacements. — The colon is of course most variable at the transverse portion. It normally ex- tends across the abdomen opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra, where it is in relation above with the liver and the gall-bladder, and lies just in advance of the first portion of the duodenum and the pyloric end of the stomach. It also occupies in part the left hypo- chondriac region in front of the spleen. The colon, when the stomach is empty, lies across the anterior surface of this organ. From these normal relations it may vary so as to lie transversely across any portion of the abdomen. It may, indeed, lie so low as to be in contact at one point with the cascum. In diseased conditions these two portions of the colon may be thus united by adhesions. In a case recorded witli details by Thurnam,^ the transverse colon was found below the umbilicus and adherent to the caecum. An abscess had formed about the point at which the transverse colon had become fixed to the integument and a fecal fistula established. The de- scending colon may cross the abdomen in front of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and form an ample con- volution on the right side before terminating in the rectum—an important anatomical variation to remem- ber in the operation of opening the colon in the left groin. The descending colon, when inclined toward the median line, with the sigmoid flexure to the left, may be associated with misplacement of the left kidney.^ Either the ascending or descending colon may be pushed inward by an enlarged kidney.^ Each may be fairly obliterated by the descent of an invagination at the ileo-c£ecal valve. "With regard to the practical results following these displacements, the ca;cum and beginning of the de- scending colon on the right side, and the sigmoid flexure or terminal part of the descending colon on the left, may be considered together. Both may be found among the contents of a hernial sac; both may be displaced to the median side; so that adhesions be- tween the two are not among improbable lesions. Wilks has described an example of a csecum which was found lying loose in the iliac fossa of the oppo- site side.^ The sigmoid flexure, however, from its peculiar posi- tion, and the relatively great length of its peritoneal attachments, having often a length of two-and-a-half inches, is the most liable to assume unusual positions. It may be thrown across to the right side of the abdomen, or, when loaded with feces, it may gravi- tate in the pelvis, when its lower portion becomes abruptly angulated with the rectum. Indeed, it would 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., 1848, 265. 2 A. E. Durham, Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1860, iv. 413. 3 G. A. Hare, Med. Times and Gaz., xiv. 18.57. 4 Med. Times and Gaz., 1862, 135.