1 Archiv fiir Ohrenheilkunde, 1875, iv. 4. ' Physico-Med. Soc. of Erlaugen, Nov. 10, 1879. THE INTERNAL AUDITORY MEATUS. o-DO^OO-o 617 Tlie bottom of the meatus is divided into two parts by a crest (crista falciformis). Above the crest are situated two small fossae. The anterior of these is designed for the entrance of the facial nerve into the aquasductus Fallopii. The other, the smaller of the two, receives the branch of the vestibular nerve for the utricle, the ampulla; of the vertical trans- verse and the horizontal semicircular canals. Below the crest are tracts for the entrance of the branches of the cochlear nerve to the modiolus, while at the posterior part of the base of the meatus are two or three minute rounded openings for the branch des- tined for the ampulla of the vertical longitudinal semicircular canal, and for the nerve to the saccule. Variations of tlie LaVjyrinth The posterior end of tlie ampulla of the horizontal canal has been found dilated hy Gerlach.* The semicircular canals may be absent either on one or botli sides of the body. Defective semicircular canals imply defect of the cochlear whorls, while an abnormally formed cochlea may exist with normal semicircular canals. The diameters of the labyrinth may be naiTowed by hyperostosis. The foramen rotundum may rarely open upon the vesti- bule instead of the cochlea. Hyrtl found the aquaiductus vestibuli absent, and in a second instance two passages present. Both the aqncEductus vestibuli and the aquceductus cochlece may be abnormally widened. Ibsen found the aqncBductvs vestibuli unusually large in deaf mutes. Remarks.—The medical applications of a knowl- edge of the anatomy of the labyrinth and internal auditory meatus include the following:— (a) The localization of diseased action in the bony labyrinth. (p) The extension of disease to the labyrinth by continuity from the chamber of the tympanum. (c) The relations between the degree of pressure existing in the subarachnoid lymph-space, and that in the labyrinth. (d) Localization of disease in the internal auditory meatus. (a) The early and complete ossification, the nourish- ment by means of non-anastornosing vessels, and the compact structure of the bone, are factors entering into the question of necrosis of the labyrinth. Not- withstanding such predisposing conditions idiopathic necrosis is of less frequent occurrence than caries. The labyrinth may be involved in caries and in necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Since such a process is commonly the sequel of chronic suppurative disease of the middle ear, thos# portions exposed upon the inner wall of the chamber of the tympanum most commonly suffer. Sequestra containing the basal portion of the bony cochlea or of the entire cochlea have been removed from the living subject. In less frequent instances portions of the semicircular canals and vestibule have been re- moved. The effect of chronic otitis media is to in- duce hyperostosis of the petrous portion and the mas- toid portion of the temporal bone. Foci of carious degeneration are scattered throughout the mass, being more especially located upon the bony labyrinth. Hyperostosis may narrow or occlude the round win- dow, and excite the formation of nodosities upon the inner wall of the labyrinth. The horizontal semicircular canal and the vertical transverse semicircular canal are relatively near the facial canal, and may thus be involved in necrosis involving these portions of the labyrinth. A. Lucie' reports the removal from the external auditory canal of a necrosed fragment which was identified with the upper two-thirds of the cochlea. The patient had had vertigo and bloody purulent discharge from the ear, which symptoms disappeared after the removal of the fragment. Embolism of the auditory artery may cause the death of the entire labyrinth. (h) In addition to disease of the tympanic cham- ber extending to the labyrinth through the general bony investment of the petrous bone, the round and oval windows afford means of direct continuity between the two portions of the ear. The oval window, closed as it is by the stapes in normal condi- tion, would ordinarily separate the middle from the inner ear, but it should not be forgotten that the stapes may itself be absent. The most frequent means of communication is by the round window, the single factor of interference being the occluding membrane. (c) Since the inner ear, by means of its lymph communicates with the subarachnoid space (through the internal auditory meatus, and at the base of the latter passage with the perilymph), the pressure in the labyrinth is in a measure under the control of the fluid in that space. In some forms of deaf- ness, attributed to the increase of this pressure, it may exist within the cranium independently of inter- ference with the auditory nerve. In cerebro-spinal meningitis, the inflammatory state 79