704 TUB GBNITO-URINAEY OECIANS. c-o-O^^OOo The superior ligament lies between the hypogastric arteries, and extends from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. The two lateral ligaments extend from the sides of the pelvis to the walls of the bladder. The two posterior ligaments (recto-ves'cal) extend from the rectum to the sides of the bladder. Under the name of the true ligaments may be mentioned processes of the pelvic fascia situated at the sides of the bladder. These are four in num- ber, two anterior and two lateral. The two anterior ligaments ' (pubo-prostatic) extend from the sym- physis pubis to the front of the bladder and the pros- tate gland. Each contains a small muscular slip from the bladder. The lateral ligaments, one on either side of the bladder, extend from the pelvic fascia cover- ing the Levator Ani muscle to the prostate gland and the bladder. The internal surface of the bladder is smooth, when the organ is filled with urine, but wrinkled when empty, excepting at its base, which is at all times nearly smooth. The basal surface (trigone) corre- sponds to the triangular interval between the uretral and urethral orifices. In the female this space is smaller than in the male by reason of the absence of the prostate gland. At the urethral orifice is a slight median elevatiou known as the uvula vesicas (luette). When the blad- der is empty the position of this portion of the base is marked by a few longitudinal plications, and extend- ing across between the uretral orifices is a faint incon- stant elevation, due to the muscular coat. The connective tissue beneath tlie mucous mem- brane is abundant, and beneath it in turn is the mus- cular coat. The muscular coat is composed of three layers, the longitudinal layer (external layer), which is best de- veloped upon the anterior and posterior surfaces ; the circular layer, which being well defined at the neck (Sphincter Vesicae) becomes weaker, above and behind than in front, and its fibres are more or less decussat- ing near the summit; and & submucous layer (internal layer), which is composed of delicate longitudinal fibres, and is best developed at the summit of the bladder.—According to Jurie,' the longitudinal fibres are so related to the sphincter that when the former contract the sphincter is pulled open. The epithelium of the bladder is composed of small rounded cells, from among which pyriform cells arise • Strieker's Hdbucli., iv. 1873. by their small ends, and bearing upon their swollen ends large capitate cells, which are larger than those of the deeper layers. Thus the ureters and bladder are possessed of an epithelial lining similar in char- acter. Relations—The position of the bladder can be determined by tlie finger in the rectum, at which point the surgeon can detect that portion of the angle which forms the apex of the trigone. This is the spot, according to Holden,' at which tlie distended bladder should be punctured through the rectum. J. G. Garson'^ has written an extended account of the alterations of the position of the bladder due to distension of the rectum. Variations—Ectrophy of the bladder is that condition in whicli the anterior wall as well as the corresponding por- tion of the abdominal parietes is absent. The posterior wall of the bladder is thus exposed, and brought nearly to the level of the anterior contour of the trunk. The orifices of the ureters are of course exposed. The umbilical termination of the urachus may be patulous in the infant, permitting urine to escape. The urethra may be closed in some examples of persistent urachus, or where tight congenital phimosis exists, the urine in either case escaping entirely by the umbilicus. More frequently both are pervious, the greater portion of the urine being voided by the urethra.' The urachus when patulous may become cystiform. C. E. E. Hoffmann' describes a striking instance of this variety, in wiiich four separate tappings of the sac were instituted, each being followed by the escape of large quantities of fluid. After death the bladder was found con- tracted, and the urachus closed at its vesical end, while its middle portion was enormously distended, thickened, and lined with pavement epithelium.^ According to Luschka,''the urachus is essentially a hollow tube. Observers have occasionally found calculi lodged within this canal. Kemarks.—The bladder possesses a tendency to sacculation. A variable portion of the wall may be thus depressed, and afibrd favorite sites for the depo- sition of calculi. In some rare instances, the sacculations which occur at the side of the bladder may become ingredients of an inguinal hernia, or scrotal hernia,^ or assume various abnormal positions. In a case mentioned by C. Mur- 1 Landmarks, p. 76. 2 Edin. Med. Jourii., 1878, xxiv. 300. 3 Gueniot, Bulletin de Therap., Oct. 1872. * Archiv f. Heilkunde, 1870, 373. 5 For a r^sum^ of the subject of persistent nraclius, see A. Rose, N. Y. Med. Rec, xii. 516. 6 Virchow's Arcliiv., 1862, xxiii. 1 ; also Lnsclika's Anatomie, 229. ' G. Pilolier, Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1853, iv. 187.