708 THE GENITO-UEIN AEY OEGANS. ooo^Ooo Cavernosus muscles is contracted between the bulb and the glans penis, and yields at the base of the corona a number of follicular glands (glands of Ty- son), which secrete a semi-solid substance, known as smegma.—The spongy body resembles the cavernous in essential features. The fibrous investing tissue is weaker than in the former organ, and the trabeculse less noticeable. The bulb in tlie young subject exhibits a slight tendency to become bi-lobed. Bloodvessels.-—The arrangement of the arteries of the spongy body is of the same character as that seen in the cavernous bodies. The branches of the internal pudic have sometimes received the names of the bulbo-urethral and the bulbo-cavernosus arteries. The glans penis receives, in addition to the bulbo- cavernosus artery, a separate branch from the dorsal artery of the penis. Veins.—The veins of the penis chiefly pass out through the deep parts of the organ, particularly through the bulb of the spongy body and the back part of the cavernous bodies. Others effect exit between the cavernous bodies and the spongy body, and, pass- ing upward along the sides of the organ, join the dorsal vein. The dorsal vein of the penis receives much of its blood from about the anterior portion of the spongy body. Tributary veins to the dorsal vein also pass upward from the sides of the spongy body. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the hypo- gastric plexus, as well as the pudic. The terminal twigs upon the glans bear Pacinian corpuscles. Lymi')liaiics.■—-The lymphatics of the spongy body are abundant, and lie beneath the covering of the glans and prepuce, as well as beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra. The superficial vessels are received by the inguinal glands, while the deeper ones empty into the hypogastric ganglia. Variations.—The glans may be cleft so as to form two distinct portions, the meatus of the urethra appearing at the base of the fissure ; the prepuce may be absent or may be congenitally adherent to the glans penis, and the smegma be mechanically retained in tlie partially obliterated pre- putial chamber. Wlien the urethra terminates at a point on the under surface of the organ back of the glans penis, the condition known as hypospadias is said to exist. Hypo- spadias should be studied togetlier with malposition of the testicles and with development of the utricle. When the urethra is open above, epispadias is said to exist, a con- dition which should be studied with ectrophy of the bladder. The utricle may be of large size, a condition which is, as a rule, associated with hypospadias The utricle may extend a short distance behind the bladder, or it may pass up well into the pelvis and occupy the position of the uterus in the female. The pouch is easily determined by the position of the vasa deferentia, which should open into it. The prostate body in cases of hypospadias is rudimentary. Eemarks. — Owing . to the loose connective tis- sue about the penis the organ is susceptible of great swelling when acutely inflamed. Extravasation of blood may occur in the same position, and even gan- grene of the integument ensue.—The integument of the penis is appropriated by swellings and growths originating in the scrotum. Under these conditions the penis appears to be retracted, and almost lost within the contour of the tumefied scrotum. The cavernous bodies, when rigid by erection, are liable to lesion, especially to " fracture," which is com- plicated with great extravasation of blood.—Instances are known in which the entire cavernous bodies have sloughed away. Mr. Gay^ has reported an instance of gangrene of both the cavernous and spongy bodies.—The spongy body retains an inti- mate association with the urethra. Urethritis when of high grade involves the spongy body; abscess of the spongy body is occasionally noticed as a sequel. From the fact that the spongy body is slightly shorter than the cavernous bodies, the penis when erected is moderately curved. The curve is exaggerated in erections associated with inflammatory stasis and in- filtrations within the spongy bodies. 1 Tr. Path. Soc. Lond. 1879, 5. 1878 ; see also Arcliiv f. clin. Surg., EXPLANATION OF PLATE CVIII. Fig. 1. The testicle with its duct and vessels in position in the spermatic cord. Fig. 2. A diagrammatic representation of the testicle dis- played on the plan of injection. Fig. 3. A sinistro-dextral (frontal) section of the right half of the male perineum. Fig. 4. An antero-posterior (longitudinal) section of the male pelvis and the organs of generation.