THE INTEEIOR OF THE LARYNX. 687 bule, to form a ridge-like eminence of mucous mem- brane from the superior laryngeal aperture to near the ventricle. They may thus be described as hav- ing a horizontal and a vertical arrangement. Between this ridge and the anterior border of the arytenoid cartilage is a groove, called the filtrum ventriculi by Meckel, who supposed it to aid in the conduction of mucus from the ventricle to the pharynx. The Quadrangular Membrane.—The side of the ves- tibule, which extends between the aryteno-epiglottic fold and the false vocal cord, has received from Tour- tual the name of the quadrangular membrane. The so-called False Vocal Cord (ventricular band) is a ridge-like eminence of mucous membrane extending from before backward across the side of the vestibule, and lying between the quadrangular membrane above and the ventricle below. It is covered with thin mucous membrane which is firmly adherent to the superior thyro-arytenoid L-gament. The false vocal cord lias no important function as far as is known. From its extreme sensitiveness it has been sup- posed by Luschka to serve as a monitor to the true vocal cord. The two bands may be approximated by the constrictor-like fibres of the Thyro Arytenoid muscles. The Ventricle of the Larynx (ventricle of Mor- gagni, laryngeal poucli). Between the true and false vocal cords is the elliptical orifice (rima) of the ven- tricle of the larynx. The ujjper border of the ven- tricle is somewliat curved upward; the lower is stra'ght. The ventricle is narrow at the orifice, but is prolonged upward for about six lines in the space between the quadrangular membrane and the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. As it ascends it curves slightly backward. This ascending por- tion is often spoken of as the sacculi larymjis (sac of Hlton), although this name is also applied to the ventricle. It may reach the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and even pass beyond it. Luschka has 7-ecorded an example in which the top of the sac lay beneath the mucous membrane of the tongue. The ventricle receives the secretions from sixty or seventy small racemose glands, which are imbedded in the submucous and delicate fat tissue surrounding the sac. They are here surrounded by a membrane which is continuous with the folse vocal cords. The glands are the occasional seat of cysts of retention. Bruns has described a case of this kind in which the tumor protruded into the cavity of the vestibule through the orifice of the larynx. Luschka found in one case a cyst of the size of a walnut, which lay be- neath the Thyro-Hyoid muscle, and had apparently escaped detection during life. Tlie anterior Jiorder of the vestihule is formed by the cushion of the epi'jloltis and part of the fovea centralis. The cushion is composed of glands and a quantity of fat. The fovea centralis is a small groove upon the anterior surface of the larynx at the re-entering angle of the thyroid cartilage. Its existence is determined by the want of absolute approximation of the true and false vocal cords. The Glottis.—The glottis is that part of the larynx in which the true vocal cords are situated. It lies between the re-entering angle of the thyi'oid cartilage and the bases of the arytenoids, and resembles a narrow triangle in shape, having its base posteriorly. It is bounded in front by the fovea centralis, at the side by the vocal cords and vocal processes, forming the lips of the glottis, and behind by the inter-arytenoid notch. The opening between the cords is called the chink <f the glottis (rima glottidis). It is eleven lines long in the male, and nine in the female, with a width, in easy respiration, of three or four lines. Each vocal cord is prismatic, having its base outward. Its upper border is horizontal; its lower extends obliquely downward and outward. Much of its bulk is due to the presence of the Thyro-Ary- tenoid muscle beneath the mucous membrane. Lu?cl)ka speaks of that portion of the chink between the vocal cords as tlie inter-ligamentous rima, and of that be- tween the vocal i)rocesses as the iater-curtUa(/!nous rima. The mucous mev^hrane of the larynx is loose on the anterior surface and the free border of the epiglottis, but firmly adherent and smooth on the posterior sur- face. It is also loose on the posterior surface of the arytenoids; on the aryteno-epiglottic folds to permit free motion of the arytenoid cartilages ; as well as in the laryngo-pharyngeal sinus, and within the lar^'U- geal pouch. It is adherent to adjacent structures at the quadrangular membrane, also at the true and false vocal cords and in all of the infra-glottic region. In consequence of the arrangement above described, oedematous conditions are common on the anterior surface of the epiglottis, and round the superior aper ture of the larynx, while they are rare elsewhere. The epithelium is of the ciliated variety except where it lines the inter-arytenoid space and thence to the glottis where it is squamous. The mucous membrane varies in color from a deli- cate yellowish-piuk on the margin of the epiglottis,