675 THE PERITONEUM. which has received the name of the suspensory or longitudinal lujament. This structure is of a triangu- lar shape, its apex being below at the umbilicus, and its base above at the upper surface of the liver, where it serves to limit the right and left lobes. Passing from the upper to the under surface of the liver the membrane covers in the gall-bladder, and, reaching the transverse fissure^ it is deflected downward and to the left upon the stomach, forming the anterior layer of the yaslro-liei:)atlc omentura. Reaching the stomach the membrane passes over its anterior aspect, embracing at the same time the spleen. Between the stomach and the spleen a short but stout duplicature has received the name of the yastro-splenic omentum. It carries the vasa brevia and the splenic vein. From the stomach it passes to the great omentum, the outer surface of which it defines, and is carried upon the posterior surface of the omentum upward toward the transverse colon, and thence above this portion of the intestine back to the vertebral column. The great omentum is a large apron-like structure commonly loaded with fat, extending along the greater curvature of the stomach, and descending in front of the intestine. On the right side the base is continu- ous with the hepatico-colic ligament^ where a fold is seen. The lower free margin of the omentum tends to be slightly prolonged. Hernial protrusions con- taining omentum are more common on the left side. The peritoneum thence passes down in front of the duodenum, the aorta, and vena cava, to be again pro- jected to form a loop of great extent embracing the jejunum and ileum, and is known as the mesentery. The mesentery is at its root about six inches in length, and is directed obliquely downward and to the right from the second lumbar vertebra to the right sacro- iliac junction. Owing to this circumstance, the mass of small intestine inclines to the right side, and is thus a more frequent ingredient of right inguinal hernia than is the left. In placing the pad of a truss adapted to the right side of the groin it is recom- mended to turn the patient upon the left side with the object of relieving the right inguinal canal from the pressure of the intestinal mass. The ctecum and vermiform appendix are next in- vested by the peritoneum, which then covers the anterior two-thirds or five-sixths of both the ascend- ing colon and the descending colon, and defines a short and in some respects imperfect ascending and descending meso-colon. From the vertebral column the peritoneum is pro- jected to form a loop sustaining the transverse colon. which loop has received from this relation the name of the transverse meso-colon. This structure lies beneath and in close relation with the posterior layer of the great omentum. Formerly the omentum was described as inclosing the transverse colon. From the sigmoid flexure the peritoneum passes to the upper portion of the rectum, behind which is a small fold, the meso-rectum. The membrane, how- ever, soon leaves the rectum, first at the sides, and finally in front, so that the greater portion of the gut is without peritoneal covering. The pelvic layer of the peritoneum in the male ex- hibits two folds extending from the rectum to the bladder. These are called the recto-vesical folds (plicfe semilunares), and define laterally the recto-vesical fossa. In the female the above folds are absent. The bladder and uterus are, however, connected by a pair of lateral folds, the vesico-uterine folds, while the uterus and rectum are joined by an analogous pair called the recto-uterine (utero-sacral) folds. The peritoneum is in contact with a small portion only of the posterior wall of the vagina. In addition to these the body of the uterus is embraced by the broad ligaments at the same time that the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are held laterally by the infundibulo-pelvic ligaynents. The pelvic layer, after covering the summit of the bladder, passes to the anterior wall of the abdomen. At the inguinal region it presents two shallow pits or fossas (Fovea? inguinales). The internal of these answers in position to the external abdominal ring; the external to the internal abdominal ring. The latter is the seat of the fcetal prolongation carrying the testis in its descent from the abdomen to the scro- tum in the male. In the female the internal abdomi- nal ring accommodates the canal of Nuck. Extending from the sides of the bladder upward along the abdominal wall to the umbilicus is a pair of cord-like bands answering in position to the hypo- gastric arteries of the foBtus. They are in consequence known as the remains of the hypogastric arteries. Extending vertically upward from the summit of the bladder to the umbilicus is a somewhat similar cord which answers to the remains of the urachus. The deep epigastric artery of either side, as it passes upward between the inguinal fossae, creates a small peritoneal fold, the plica epigastrica. Reviewing the description from its starting-point, viz., the umbilicus, it will be seen that a large cavity has been described (the greater peritoneal cavity), which does not cover the posterior wall of the stomach and adjacent surfaces. This second, smaller