THE TYMPANI A description of the tympanic membrane em- braces— (1) The layers of which the membrane is composed. (2) The topography of the outer surface. (3) The topography of the inner surface. (1) The layers of which the membrane is comi:)osed' The tympanic membrane is composed of three layers : the outer, the middle, and the inner. The outer layer (dermoid layer) is epithelial in character, and is continuous with the skin of the external meatus. In macerated specimens of the ear, the skin of the meatus can be removed as the finger of a glove from the finger. The middle layer (fibrous layer, membrana propria) is composed of two layers of fibres: the outer or radiate, and the inner or circular layer. The radiate fibres are stouter than the circular, and are attached to the tympanic bone, converging thence to the centre of the membrane. The circular fibres are weaker toward the centre than elsewhere. Many of them originate upon the membrane, having no ex- trinsic attachment. Interspersed through the mem- brane are other fibres which do not demand detailed description. The inner layer (mucoid layer) is thin, and is covered with a tessellated epithelium, continuous with that of the middle ear. Briicke^ states that the epithelial cells are at times ciliated like those through the rest of the tympanic chamber. Villus-like pro- jections have been found by several observers^ at- tached to this surface of the membrane. The handle of the malleus is attached to the mem- brane by a special mechanism. It li, s in a groove of hyaline cartilage, which is converted into a canal at the base of the handle, and invests the short process. Some degree of motion probably obtains between the manubrium and its curious groove-like sheath. The handle and short process of the malleus modify the shapes of the two surfaces, and serve as the basis of their topography. (2) The topo(]rai:)hy of the outer surface. When the tympanic membrane is examined through the exter- nal meatus (fig. 4, Plate XCVII.), it is seen to be in- clined downward and inward, with a slight inclination forward. Thus it is seen to be deeper below and in front than above and behind, while the inferior and anterior part is on a deeper plane than the superior and posterior. 1 Physiologie, ii. 215. 2 Gruber, Studien iiber das Trommelfell, 20. C MEMBPtANE. 603 The handle is distinctly seen upon the surface as a long scythe-shaped process directed obliquely downward and backward, and terminating a little below the centre of the membrane. Above the handle and nearly in a line with it is the short conical process of the malleus. Passing backward from the short process to the posterior margin of the membrane, is the posterior tymimnic fold. Extend- ing forward from the same point or origin to the anterior margin is a second shorter fold, the anterior tympanic fold. The short process and the two tympanic folds form a line which serves to separate the two divisions of the outer surface of the tympanic membrane. The surface below the line is of a grayish pearl tint with a slight yellowish admixture. It is de- pressed at the apex of the manubrium to form the nmho. Between the umbo and the margins the sur- face is drawn inward, making the membrane assume a funnel-shaped figure, the sides of which are re- markable for presenting convex surfaces outward. Since the light falls upon that portion of the mem- brane which reflects the rays most nearly at a right angle, a triangular cone of light (pyramid of light) is seen to efxtend downward and forward with its apex at the centre of the umbo. The semi-transparency of this portion of the membrane permits the long process of the incus and the stapes to be occasionally seen. The transmission of the outline of the pro- montory is also possible. The smaller region above the line of the short process and tympanic fold is of a uniform reddish color, and is not translucent. The tympanic mem- brane is here thinner than elsewhere, and is covered by a membrane, ordinarily not distinguished except by dissection, termed the memhrane of Shrapmell (membrana flaccida). The outer surface of the membrane is also divided into quadrants. This is an inexact method, but has been found convenient. If a line produced along the axis of the manubrium be cut by one drawn through the end of the same process from before backward, unequal quadration of the membrane results. Those portions behind the first line are termed the posterior quadrants, and those in front the anterior quadrants. These are again divided by the line drawn from before backward in such wise that there are defined an antero-superior and a postero-superior quadrant as well as an antero-inferior and postero-inferior quad- rant. Each of these portions is again divided into a superior and an inferior.