2 Wiener Med. Presse, 21, 1877. THE NOSE. OOO^OOO 619 coalesce in a single rod which represents the colu- mella of the lowest mammals, birds, and the cold- blooded terrestrial quadrupeds generally. The stapes and incus may be fused into a single bone. A super- numerary bone may lie between the malleus and the incus. The upper process of the incus may exceed the lower in size. Diseased Action.—It has been seen above that the stapes exhibits a greater number of kinds of diseased action than either the malleus or the incus. Among additional facts may be mentioned that, while in the stapes the head and crura are most prone to caries, in the malleus it is the head of the bone which is most commonly attacked. The handle of the malleus, owing to the fact that this portion of the bone receives its blood in part from an artery passing into the bone from the vessels of the tympanum, rarely becomes carious. The incus, as it lies near the inner wall of the tym- panum, is subject to exostosis. The space between the lower and upper processes may be filled with new formations of bone-tissue. The ossicles may be entirely destroyed by caries independently of the rest of the ear. The Articulations of the Ossicles.—The intrinsic or inter-serial articulations are as follows: the malleo- incudal, the incudo-stapedial, and the stapedo-vesti- bular. These are all of the nature of symphysis, according to Brunner.' The extrinsic articulations are confined to the malleo-tyrapanic and the incudo- tympanic junctures, and are less of the nature of articu- lations than of accessory union by ligamentous attach- ment. The Muscles of the Middle Ear and of tlie Eustachian Tube.—The Tensor Tympani muscle has been found by Von Trneltsch to be continuous with the Tensor Palati either by a tendinous band or by a muscular fascicle. This connection explains the concurrence of retraction of the tympanic membrane with the action of the Tensor Palati as occurred in a case of C. H. Burnett.^—Paralysis and paresis of the muscles of the orifice of the Eustachian tube and of the Tensor Tympani have been found by Weber-Liel and E. Woakes to be associated. The former writer has found in paralysis of the Tensor Palati muscle antago- nistic contraction of the Tensor Tympani to co-exist. The concurrence of weakened and inefficient ac- tion of the two muscles may be anticipated, not only from the fact of partial fusion of the two mus- cles above mentioned, but from the fact that both receive nerve-fibres from the same source, namely, the otic ganglion. It would be a mistake to assume, however, that paresis of the tubal muscles of neces- sity is associated with paresis of the Tensor Tympani. The author has met with numerous examples of entire retention of the functions of the middle ear with pare- sis of the Tensor Palati and Levator Palati muscles. The point of insertion of the Tensor Tympani has been found by V. Urbantschitsch subject to consider- able variation. As the result of many dissections he found it twice only attached to the inner surface of the manubrium. In nineteen times it was attached to the outer, thirty times to both the outer and inner surfaces. The Eustachian Tube.—The tube may be either narrower or wider than is normal. It maybe unduly angulated at the osseous portion. The position of the pharyngeal orifice of the tube is subject to some slight variation. According to S. Moos,^ the orifice becomes narrowed in chronic inflammation of the tube. The Stapedius Muscle.—The pyramid and the Stape- dius muscle can be occasionally seen in cases of per- foration of the posterior quadrant of the tympanic membrane, and V. Urbantschitsch^ has successfully divided the tendon of the muscle thus exposed for the relief of deafness and noises in the ear. THE NOSE. The Nose is the organ of olfaction. It is lodired in a chamber which is in the main of respiratory sig- nificance, and is defined by the bones of the face. For convenience of description the nose is divided into— The External Nose. The Nasal Chambers. THE EXTERNAL NOSE. The External Nose (fig. 2, Plate XCIII.) holds the same relation to the nasal chambers as the auricle holds to the ear or the eyelids to the eye. It is composed of— The Nasal Bones. The Nasal Cartilages. The Nasal Muscles. The Integument. > Arcliives of Ophtlial. and Otol. III., 1873, 145. 2 Phil. Med. Times, 1875. 1 Archives of Ophthal. and Otol., vi., 1877, 547.