740 ANATOMY. SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGEAPHICAL ooo^oo-^- muscle is relaxed, the bursa' can be felt on the ante- rior aspect of the tendon of the Biceps muscle.^ The shin over the region of the shoulder presents no features of interest. It is supplied by the cutane- ous branches of the circumflex nerve and the supra- scapular nerves. According to HyrtP (since the parts are covered with fasciae Avhich are continuous with fibrous dissepiments and these in turn continuous with the periosteum of the humerus), the region of the shoulder is peculiarly liable to rheumatic attacks. THE KEGION OF THE ARM. The Eegion of the Arm may be said to be bounded above by the region of the shoulder and below by the region of the elbow-joint. The form of the region is determined by the humerus at about the surgical neck to a line joining the epitrochlea and epicondyle, and by the bellies of the Biceps, Coraco-Brachialis, and Triceps muscles, and the origins of the Supinator Longus, Extensor Carpi, Radialis Longior, and Ex- tensor Carpi Eadialis Brevior. The arm is ob- scurely prism.oidal in figure in an athletic male adult, but is cylindroid in young women and in children. The arm presents a lateral and a median surface. The first named is limited f)roximally by the deltoid impression, while the second named joins the axilla. The following includes the chief surface markings. A depression at the insertion of the Deltoid muscle is on a level with the insertion of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle and the origin of the Brachialis Anticus. It is at this point of the shaft of the humerus that the angulation (see p. 175) sometimes exists, and at a point on the median aspect that the foramen of the nutrient artery of the shaft is situated. A depression answer- ing to the position of the external intermuscular sep- tum disappears abruptly at the origin of the Supinator Longus. It was formerly a favorite locality for the introduction of the seton. At its base the conspicu- ous supra-condyloid ridge can be felt. A median groove, the more pronounced of the two, corresponds in position to the main arteries and nerves of the arm, and is lost below in the anterior elbow-fold. The epicondyle and epitrochlea are conspicuous processes at the lower part of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies close behind the epitrochlea. Both bony processes form favorable localities for fixation of bands in making traction on the humerus. The nerve is remarkably enlarged in this situation in trophic forms of leprosy. ' C. B. Nancrede, International Encyel. of Surg 2 Topog. Aiiat., ii. 294. ii. 709. A cluster of two or three small lymphatic glands lies on the median aspect a short distance above the epitrochlea. These glands are often enlarged in sec- ondary syphilis, and may become inflamed in angeio- leucitis. The course of the brachial artery is best deter- mined when the arm is moderately abducted and the forearm supinated. The artery then pursues an ob- lique course downward and outward. Above, it lies to the median side of the humerus; but below, it lies more to the front of the humerus. The shin of the arm is very mobile, and permits the course of the larger veins to be outlined beneath, it. It is thinner and more delicate upon the median than the lateral aspects. It is here that the effects of pressure, from ill-applied surgical apparatus, is the most distressing. In the operation of rhinoplasty, after the method of Taliacozzi, the skin is secured from this region. The skin of the arm is supplied on its median aspect as follows: the upper two-thirds by the branches of termination of the lesser internal cuta- neous nerve and nerve of Wrisberg; and the lower fourth by the internal cutaneous nerve. The three cutaneous nerves pierce the fascia from in front a short distance above the elbow. The lateral aspect is supplied by branches of the circumflex and musculo- spiral nerves. Small unimportant bursoe have been defined at the ep'condyle and the epitrochlea. THE ELBOW. When the Elbow-joint is completely flexed the proximal third of the front of the forearm lies in contact with the distal third of the front of the arm. A conspicuous anterior skin-fold is created by this posi- tion which, if continued posteriorly, would intei'sect the epitrochlea and epicondyle, and which, when seen while the joint is semi-flexed, receives the name of the anterior skin-fold (|;Zi cln coude.^ plica cubitalis). The region of the elbow may be said to be inclosed in lines circling the arm for two fingers' breadth above and below this fold. The following are the principal points of reference of the elbow. Seen from in front there is detected a lateral swelling, due to the Supinator Longus and the underlying Extensors of the Carpus. On the median surface is seen the less conspicuous eminence of the flexor mass. Between them is a V-shaped groove leading upon the arm to the bicipital grooves, and in common with them determined by the Biceps muscle.