ON MAKING POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. 780 , OOO^OOo—■ median surfaces downward upon the bottom of a flat dish. The subsequent examination of the brain must be conducted according to the immediate object in view. Indiscriminate slicing of the organ is to be avoided. If the intention is to determine the general condition of the parts without reference to any minute study of the texture of the organ, the examination may begin by exposing the lateral ventricles. The incisions made as above recommended to expose these cavities with a view of collecting the flu'd, manifestly cannot be made to any advantage after the brain has been removed from the head. Con- ceding, therefore," that such incisions have already been made, a narrow knife is next passed through the foramen of Monro, and the corpus callosum and the fornix divided transversely. These parts are turned back in order to display the cavity of the third ven- tricle. The horns of the lateral ventricle can be slit up by an incision extending along their entire lengths. The velum body and the pineal interpositum are next examined, the greatest care being required— owing to the intimate association existing between it and the fibres of the velum—to preserve the pineal body uninjured. A director is next passed along the communicating passage between the third and fourth ventr'cles, and the superimposed tis- sue divided. The cerebrum is next usually sliced from within outwards in crude imitation of the com- partments of an orange, viz., each section being nar- row toward the lateral ventricle, but wide toward the outer surface. The object of such treatment is to ex- amine carefully for alterations of a morbid character, and to p)ermit thedift'erent eomjiartments or divisions to be examined at will and returned to their natural relations. This method further aids the preservation of the tissues by permitting the selected fluid to per- meate through the entire thickness of the cerebrum. To display the relations of the nuclei of the striated body one to another and to the cortex horizontal sec- tions may be made in the manner used to demonstrate tVie arbitrary planes of the cerebrum, viz., the lesser and greater oral sections. In the language of Dr. Mills (I.e.)the cerebrum may be divided, according to the method of M. Pitres (see p. 508), as follows:— "The first incision is made through the prte-frontal region, the second, through the bases of the three frontal convolutions, the third, through the ascending frontal convolution, the fourth, through the ascending parietal convolution, the fifth, through the superior and inferior parietal lobules, and the sixth, through the occipital lobe. The incisions should be made in each hemisphere from within outwards nearly to the convolutions. "Instead of the vertico-transverse, the vertico-lon- gitudinal section may be used. In this method be- ginning at the cerebral peduncles, smooth incisions long and deep enough to expose all the parts to within a few lines of the convolutions of the base should be carried through both optic thalami and corpora striata and out into the hemispheres, a few extra sections being made in the white matter above the level of the ventricles. "It may sometimes be desirable to examine the interior of the cerebrum from the base, which can be readily done, p)articularly if a fair knowledge on the part of the operator is possessed of the relations of the fissures and convolutions of the surface to internal eminences and cavities." The Spinal Cord. The spinal cord can be removed with advantage as follows: After severing the laminte of the vertebra3 by the saw or with pliers, sever the dura mater and the cord at the level of the foramen magnum. The membranes and the cord at the plane of this section are then lifted together from the ver- tebral canal, the nerves, and the filum terminale being successively divided, the entire cord with the mem- branes are removed. Tlie dura mater and the pia mater may then be slit and the surface of the cord inspected ; subsequently the specimen may be divided in sections of convenient length and immersed in an appropriate jjreservative fluid. The Ear and Nasal Chambers. To the student of nasal and aural diseases it often becomes desirable to remove the nasal chambers and the ears for spe- cial study. Schalle' has written an elaborate paper descriptive of a process original with himself which is undoubtedly the best that has yet been offered to effect- this object. The essential feature of his method is the removal of all the parts of interest, which cannot be inspected upon the undissected body, and the securing of such without mutilation of the features, or the making of unsightly seams. After removal of the skullcap and the brain, as already described, a trifoil-like figure is traced upon the floor of the brain-case so as to include in the anterior leaflet the anterior part of the basilar pro- cess of the occipital bone, the body and basal portions of the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid bone, and the inner halves of the orbital plates of the frontal 1 Virchow's Archiv, vol. 71, 1877, 20(j, PI. ix. Tlie plate dis- plays the line to Le followed by the saw, a figure of the parts re- moved, and of the instruments employed.