THE PKOSTATE GLAND. -ooo^§OOo — 705 chison/ the sacculated portion extended within the abdomen as far as Poupart's ligament, Avhere it pressed npon the femoral vein, and excited inflam- mation of its walls. An ovarian or other tumor growing upward from the pelvis is liable to carry with it the upper portion of the bladder, and compress it against the abdominal wall. Mediaii incisions in the hypogastric region in such cases should be guardedly made, since the thinned and emptied viscus can with difficulty be distinguished from surrounding tissues. Rupture and distension of the bladder, Avhile strict- ly surgical subjects, present soTne underlying anatomi- cal features which may be here briefly epitomized: when distension occurs as the result of a slow pro- cess, the walls of the bladder become thinned, and an interstitial spontaneous rupture may occur which will be confined to the muscular and mucous layers— a pouch defined by peritoneum receiving the urine. This pouch is generally upon the posterior surface as a natural result of the absence of that support which the anterior surface, and in part the lateral surfaces, receive from the abdominal walls, as well as from the fact that at the sides the peritoneum is tense and comparatively unyielding. For similar reasons the posterior wall is most liable to be ruptured after violence. ISTevertheless, in many cases the site of the lesion holds a fixed relation to the direction of the force. This force may rupture all the coats of the viscus. Following such an accident upon the anterior surface, the urine will escape into the sub- peritoneal connective tissue of the abdominal wall {q. v.). The rupture occurring inferiorly will cause the urine to infiltrate the perineum, provided the recto-vesical fascia has yielded ; and posteriorly it will cause the urine to flow into the peritoneal cavity. Rupture from beneath is liable to be associated with laceration of the urethra {q. v.), this canal being made tense by the upward inclination of the distended bladder. Thus the bladder may be ruptured from a kick in the perineum. Erskine Mason^ describes this accident as occurring in a boy. The bladder was ruptured at the side near the neck, and the urethra was lacerated. In an interesting accident reported by Mr. Thompson,^ the laceration was incurred by the patient falling on his back from a height of twenty feet, and a heavy mass of earth directly afterward crushing the abdomen. The bladder was found ruptured, and the perineum lacerated. The 90 « Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., xiv., 1863, 133. 2 N. Y. Med. Jouni., 1874, 638. ' Prov. Med. and Surg. Journ., Oct. 20, 1851. external wound was sufficiently large to permit three fingers to be passed with ease through it into the bladder. The observer, in commenting upon the case, concludes: " It is evident that the weight and pres- sure of the earth compressed the bladder so completely within the pelvis, that the urine was sent forward with such force as to tear the urethra and the peri- neum." Thomas D. Jones^ reports a curious example of closure of the opening in a ruptured bladder by a portion of bowel. In the female, rupture of the bladder, according to Harrison, is rare, for the following reasons:— " The viscus does not incline backward to the degree seen in the male, but enlarges forward and in the transverse direction. The uterus and its lateral folds assist in breaking the shock of any external violence applied to the hypogastric region, and to prevent the direct concussion of the bladder against the promontory of the sacrum." Distended bladder naturally displaces the uterus upward and backward, and may thus act as a factor in preventing contraction of the uterus after delivery. Geo. T. Elliot^ includes this condition among the causes of post-partum hemorrhage. Inflammations of and extravasations into the tissues of the pelvis of women lead more frequently to the evacuation of the products of diseased action through the bladder than in men.^ The contraction of the muscular coat of the blad- der has a direct influence in closing the ureters and preventing regurgitation during the emptying of the viscus.* THE PKOSTATE GLAND. The Prostate Gland (prostate body) is a collection of racemose glands surrounded by a firm symmetri- cal musculo-cellular stroma. It embraces the urethra from the neck of the bladder to the triangular liga- ment, a distance of one and-one-eighth to one-and-one- fourtli inches, at the same time receiving the utricle and the ejaculatory ducts. It lies immediately in front of the rectum at about its middle third, at which point it can be readily felt. The D-land resembles in outline a truncated cone, and presents a base and an apex, as well as anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces. 1 Lancet, Aug. 20, 1870, 252. 2 N. Y. Med. Journal, April, 1867, 35. 3 Ibid., 41. * Jurie, Strieker's Med. Jahrblioher, 1873, iv.