070 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. 3 Am. Journ. of Med. Sci., 1861, 99. ooO^OOo — mechanical congestions of tlie cava during life.—In cirrhosis of the liver the portal and hepatic veins are both constricted. (/) The hiliary duds mid the gall-hladder.—The ex- posed position of the excretory apparatus of the liver from the transverse fissure to the duodenum ren- ders it peculiarly liable to pressure from adjacent parts; and when it is remembered that none of the several structures in this apparatus present any re- sistance to such outward pressure, it is not remark- able that mechanical obstruction to the flow of bile is a frequent clinical phenomenon. It should be recalled that the common biliarj^ duct is most liable to be subjected to such pressure, since it lies exposed upon the anterior surface of the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the portal vein and under the hepatic artery. These parts are easily seen in dissec- tion by elevating the liver and depressing the stomach and the transverse colon. When the organs are pre- served in situ, the student must think of them as relaxed. In this condition an unusual degree of pressure maintained for some time will be required to induce mechanical obstruction. But, should co- related conditions be such that the common duct is made tense in the gastro-hepatic omentum, slight degrees of pressure, particularly if they are exerted from in front, will suffice to occlude the common biliary duct. Sibson states that, in estimating the descent and advance of the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas, the ascent and advance of the lower sternal ribs and cartilages must be taken into account. While the latter ascend and advance about an inch, the former descend and advance nearly two inches. In relation to the ribs and cartilages, the liver moves downward about three inches, but forward scarcely one inch, since their elevation adds to the depression and their expansion lessens the protrusion of the liver. The inspiratory lowering of the liver is notably greater than that of the stomach and the spleen, owing to the great height to which the organ first named rises in the right side of the dome of the Dia- phragm. It is evident that such descent will relax the common biliary duct, since the movements of the pancreas must be less than those of the liver, if, indeed, the former structure, held as it is to the fixed middle portion of the duodenum, can be said to have any true downward movement. It will fol- low that in expiration, when the liver ascends, the common duct will be tense. It will also follow, all things being equal, that obstruction from outward pressure will be more apt to occur as a complication in conditions in which the liver is high up, as in the expiratory position, than in those conditions in which it is low down, as in the inspiratory position. It is a reasonable inference that in spontaneous rupture of the common duct three inches from the duodenum, such as happened in a case recorded by McSwiney,' the lesion occurred in deep expiration or with the liver in the position corresponding thereto. In Clark's case^ of traumat'c rupture of the duct, the force exciting the injury was severe, viz., a crushing of the body between two wagons, as the duct, even when relaxed, will yield to extraordinary pressure. The liver suffered but slight laceration, which was confined to the under surface of the organ. The hepatic duct (/. e. the duct above the common biliary duct) may be ruptured from injury. Death ensues from escape of bile into the peritoneal cavity.—In a case reported by T. M. Drysdale,^ traumatic rupture of the biliary duct was followed by enormous disten- sion of the abdomen with a bile-stained serum. Enlargements of existing organs, or new growths, placed toward the median side of the liver, will by their advancement toward the right side push the liver in front of them and to the right. This will tend, conceding the fixed position of the middle por- tion of the duodenum, to be of constant value in pro- ducing tension of the common duct. On the other hand, protrusions of any kind behind the liver, by throwing it inward, will relax the duct. A knuckle of large intestine may intrude itself between the Diaphragm and the liver. Since the under surface of the liver is in contact with the pyloric end of the stomach, the transverse colon, and the first portion of the duodenum, the more obvious sources of visceral pressure against the liver will arise from them. The colon is especially apt to press against the common duct from two causes: first, from the lodgment of scybalous masses in the canal in persons of a constipated habit; and, secondly, from the enormous gaseous distension to which this por. tion of the large intestine is liable.—Pressure exerted from the stomach is frequently associated with cancer of the pylorus. Among the sources of pressure which are capable of occluding the common duct, and which yet might not attract the attention of the student in examining the normal relations of the duct, are the following:— Causes O'peratiny at the heimiic end of the duct.— Conspicuous among these are lymphatic glands in the > Dublin Jounial of Medicine, 1866, 518. 2 Lancet, 1864.