(06 TUE GENITO-URIN ARY ORGANS. The lase is notched in the median line for the entrance of the urethra; in advance of this is a single funnel-shaped depression for the ejaculatory ducts. The apex is adherent to the triangular ligament, and is surrounded by the anterior fasciculi of the Levator Ani muscle. The anterior and posterior surfaces are broader than the lateral, and are but slightly convex. The anterior surface is in contact with the pubo-prostatic ligaments—median and lateral—and with the connec- tive tissue behind the symphysis pubis. The jDoste- rior surface is separated from the rectum by the prostatico - peritoneal aponeurosis, or recto - vesical fascia. The lateral surfaces are convex, and the poste- rior form with the posterior notch two more or less pronounced masses which slightly diverge. These are the lateral lobes of the prostate. The points of union of the lateral portions at the floor of the urethra, botli in front and behind the orifices of tlie ejaculatory ducts, form two transverse connecting tracts which H. Thompson proposes to designate as the anterior and the posterior commissures. The anterior commissure is always inconspicuous, and never seen without first stripping off the mucous membrane. It is poor in gland tissue—some writers, indeed, as Thompson and Jarjavay, denying its existence. The posterior commissure, on the other hand, is rich in glands and is noted as the site of frequent en- largement, being then denominated the middle lobe. Since it is of importance to employ a correct terminology in de- scribing a locality which is so often the seat of hypertrophy, Thompson has suggested tiiat it be termed the 7/iedian por- tion, the so-called middle lobe being simply an outgrowth of prostatic tissue at that point. Development—A proper understanding of the prostatic lobes demands a knowledge of the origin of the entire organ. Up to the fourth month of intrauterine development the prostate gland is represented by a pair of oval bodies, one on "either side of the urethra. These subsequently unite in great part, but leave, in the lateral lobes, evidence of the original symmetrical duplicature of the organ. Measurements—The prostate gland measures in the young healthy adult about one-and-thi-ee-quarters in width, and seven lines in thickness. In consequence of its truncated form, the base exceeds by a fourth or a fifth the measure of the longitudinal axis. It weighs from four to six drachms. Structure—On section the gland is seen to be yellowish- white or reddish-gray in color. The glayids are not seen at a superficial inspection, but require to be studied care- fully with the microscope. They are from twenty to thirty in number, and belong, as already mentioned, to the race- mose type. They differ, however, from tlie salivary and duodenal glands, examples of the same type, in having the secreting follicles relatively few in number and irregularly disposed. Tlie orifices of the glands open about the outer sides of the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts. According to W. Soetlin, it would appear that the prostate is a conglomerate gland, the gland being tubular, not race- mose.' The stroma makes up the bulk of the body. It is com- posed of a fibroid tissue containing some elastic fibres, among Avhich are placed unstriated muscular fibres. The latter form two sets of fibres ; a longitudinal and a circular set. Tlie longitudinal lie immediately beneatii tlie mucous mem- brane and are continuous with the sub-uretliral muscle else- where described. The circular fibres are more thinly dis- posed tlian the preceding, but become thicker posteriorly, where they are traceable into the circular layer of the mus- cular coat of the bladder. These form at the neck of that viscus, the Sphincter Vesicee. According to Pettigrew, the circular fibres belong to figure-of-8-like loops, the com- plements of which are to be seen in the walls of the bladder. The urethra as it passes through the prostate gland receives the name of the prostatic portion. It will be fully described under the head of the Urethra. In con- nection with this, it may be stated, however, that the greater portion of the prostate lies behind the urethra, and that the ejaculatory ducts (see Testicle), pierce the post-urethral portion obliquely v;pward and for- ward, to open on either side of the orifice of the utricle. The prostate gland is surrounded by a proper cap- sule or fascia which adheres intimately to the stroma. Embracing it in common with other pelvic viscera are portions of the pelvic fascia. As this lies around the gland it is separated at the sides and particularly in front by the prostatic plexus of veins. Relations The prostate gland lies about one-and-a-half or two inches above the anus. Within the bladder tlie shape of the gland can be measurably defined even in health. In many diseased conditions the tendency exists for the gland to project within the bladder and to form an obstructive growth which will arrest the flow of urine from the bladder. The Bloodvessels of the prostate gland.—The arteries are derived from the inferior vesical and middle hEemorrhoidal arteries. An artery may be found running between the capsule and the ileo-vesical reflection of fascia. The prostatic veins open into the prostatic plexus, and are generally seen filled with coagula, and in old persons are occupied here and there by phleboliths. It is from this plexus that the venous hemorrhage in the operation of lithotomy is derived. According to Valentine Mott,^ the bleeding 1 Ceiitralbl. f. d. Med. Wisseiiscluifteii, No. 22, 1871. 2 N. Y. Jouru. of M(id., 1858, 319.