THE COCPILEAR CANAL. 615 =00^000 The liimina spiralis modioli projects in the cupola over the hamulus, and thus embraces an opening, the helicotrema Bresciieti, through which the scala tynipani and scala vestibuli communicate. Structure.—The structure of the cochlear canal is much more complex than is tliat of the other portions of the membranous labyrinth. Continuous with tlie lamina ossea spiralis is a membranous structure which extends across the cochlear tube, and which serves to separate the vestibular from the tympanic scala. At the inner third of the bony lamina the membrane of Reissner is attached. The membrane is fixed to the terminal third of the vestibular surface of the bony lamina, and termi- nates in a thickened extremity which is called the limhus spiralis. Beneath the limbus and between it and the apex of the bony lamina is the inner spiral groove. The basement membrane extends from the free edge of the bony lamina horizontally across the cochlea to the outer wall of the canal, where it aids in defining the outer spiiral groove. Resting upon the basement membrane is a layer of epithelial cells. Organ of Corti of the cochlea of a Guinea-pii;. a, outer rod or pillar of Corti; 6, inner rod or pillar of Corti; c, tunael of Corti's arch; outer hair-cells; e, inner hair-cell;/, outer supporting cells containing fat globules; ^, inner supporting I'.ells ; h, cells; i epithelial cells lining the sulcus spiralis inter- uus ; k, part of crista spiralis. The Organ of Corti. Lying upon the basement membrane, and lying a little nearer the inner than the outer spiral groove, is a delicate complex struc- ture which has received the name of the organ of Corti. Seen in transverse section the organ of Corti resembles an arch whose sides (inner and outer) are termed the rods of Corti, the parts uniting the rods at their summits are termed the roof-cells (pha- langeal cells), which compose the reticular lamina, and the archway defined by the rods is termed the tnnnel of Corti. To the inner side of the inner rods lies a row of cells (cells of Deiters) surmounted by minute hairs. These cells are known as the inner hair-cells. To the outer side of the outer rods lie three or four rows of similar cells, which are called the outer hair- cells. The reticular lamina is, as the name expresses, a membrane of a delicate open network of fibres through whicli the hair-cells project free above the entire Cortian ory:an. The entire structure is covered with a delicate and somewhat elastic membrane (the membrana tectorial, which extends from the limbus spiralis across and Fis. 149. Vertical section through the cochlea of a Guinea-pig's ear, seen in the long axis of the modiolus. scala vestibuli; &, scala tynipaui; c, cochlear canal; rf, membrana tectoria ; f, cells ; /, upper outer angle of the scala media ; g, region of tlie outer hair-cells on the membrana basilaris ; ft, membrane of Keissner ; I, epithelium lining the sulcus spiralis (internus) ; tunnel of Corti's arch ; k, stria vascularis; I, ligamentum spirale; m, crista spiralis; n, nerve-fibres o, ganglion spirale ; nerve-fibres in the modiolus ; q, channels in bone con- taining bloodvessels; r, masses of bone int he modiolus ; s, bony capsule. over the organ of Corti to join the epithelial cells of the basement membrane some distance beyond the outer hair-cells. Thus, to recapitulate, there exist in the organ of Cortian inner and outer series of ?-0(/s of Corti; an inner and outer series of hair-cells; a series of roof- cells which constitute the reticular larnina placed upon the conjoined apices of the rods, and a second covering membrane to the whole organ the tectorial membrane. For a more minute description of this remarkable structure, the student is referred to the special memoirs of Kolliker and Waldeyer, or to a careful resume of the later views in Quain's Anatomy, ninth edition.