THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. The serous coat (peritoneal coat) is complete except at the curvatures, where a space exists for the accom- modation of the gastric vessels. The mvscular coat is composed of three sets of fibres: the external layer, the middle, and the inter- nal. The external layer (longitudinal) is the strong- est. It presents a general covering to the organ, and is best developed along the lesser curvature. Its fibres are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. The fibres of the middle layer (cir- cular layer) are arranged in loops like figures of 8 across the short circumference of the organ. They are stoutest at the pyloric end, where they almost en- tirely inclose and define the pyloric sphincter, being directed toward the pyloric axis. The pyloric orifice, therefore, is an annular r^ng of muscle-fibres of the middle layer covered with mucous membrane. The fibres of the middle of the stomach are continuous with the corresponding fibres of the oesophagus. The internal layer (oblique layer), the weakest of the three, is composed of a loop or ribbon-like fold of fibres lodged behind the cardiac orifice. From this locality the fibres radiate, the upper ones being di- rected toward the lesser, and the lower toward the greater curvature. The upper end of the band is better defined than is the lower. It is thought by late observers that this set of fibres is not continuous with the oesophagus, as was formerly supposed. Eet zius' states that the muscular fibres of the stomach, particularly those of the oblique set, contribute to form at the lesser curvature a groove opening toward and continuous with the gastric cavity, which serves as a guide for fluids to flow from the oesophagus directly to the pylorus, without mingling with the contents of the stomach. This arransrement is in harmony with that seen in the sacculated and com- pound stomachs of many animals. The suhrnucous coat is a thin layer of connective tissue intervening between the muscular and mucous coats. It is chiefly interesting from the fact that the loose connection of the mucous with the muscular layer is due to it. The mucous coat is thicker toward the pylorus than elsewhere, and in the empty organ is marked by longitudinal folds or rugaj, which, however, disappear when the viscus is distended. These folds are most conspicuous toward the pylorus, and along the greater curvature, while they are nearly or entirely absent from the fundus. The mucous membrane lin- ing the pyloric sphincter may receive the name of the ' Archiv fur Aiiatomie, 1862, 136. pyloric valve. This membrane is of a pale pinkish or red-brown color; it is thickest toward the pylorus, where small villoid structures are seen. It varies from three-quarters of a line to one line in thickness. Connecting the longitudinal folds are others, placed at right angles, which give the mucous surface a coarsely reticulated appearance. Within the spaces thus formed are seen numerous small pits or alveoli which meas- ure one-hundredth to two-hundredth of an inch in diameter. The alveoli are studded with the ori- fices of the ^^e/j^/c glands (gastric follicles). In addi- tion to these structures the entire surface is marked with minute elevations (mamellas); these are due to the presence of closed or lenticular glands, and are best seen in the stomachs of infants and children. The epithelium of the stomach is of the columnar variety. The epithelium of the mucous membrane of the oesophagus terminates at the cardiac orifice abruptly by a well-defined but irregular border. Extending between tlie serous anr] muscular layers are a few longitudinal fibres which may be named the Uyamentum pylori. The Glands of the stomach are of the tubular variety, and extend vertically or in slightly tortuous lines through the entire thickness of the mucous Fig. 174. The appearance of the peptic glands under a low power; d, duct; n, neck; p, parietal cells ; e, chief cells. membrane, being smallest where the membrane is thinnest, as at the cardiac extremity; and largest and at the same time more numerous where the