EMBEYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. 770 oOO^CXX^ ■— the Eustachian tube is known to be a survival of the distal portion of this visceral cleft, cervical fistules in the position of the ear are often accompanied with malformation of the ear, particularly of the auricle.' In tlie judgment of C. F. Heusinger,^ the diverticuli of the oesophagus are of the nature of incomplete cervical fistules. For the literature of cervical fistul^e and related conditions, see F. M. Ascherson,^ M. Perls,^ J. Gusset,* Neumann and Baunigarten, and W. W. Wagstaff'e.* Fig. 240. o if e A profile sketch designed to illustrate by dotted lines the position of the hranchinl fissures. The letters answer to the spaces between the fissures. «, the space between parts developed from the trabeculcB eranii, and those of tlie first arch ; b, the space between the upper and lower masses of the first arch ; c, the space between the first and the second arch ; d. the space between the second and the third arch ; e, the space between the third and the fourth arch ; /, the space below the third arch. Fig. 240, from Gusset, will be useful for the loca- tion of the lines about which fistulse and cystic for- mations may be looked for. Fig. 2-1:1, from Wagstaffe, indicates the position of the last-named condition upon the suture of the facial region. Not only may the visceral clefts and the spaces be- tween the various parts of the plan of the face fail to unite, but cysts may form along the lines of union, and hyperplasia occur at the sutural lines of the bones in this region (Fig. 241). The presence of cysts in the neck should always be studied, as having origin along the lines of the interspaces, and it is probable that most accessions of tissue at sutural lines of bones, as in the 1 J. Paget, Med.-Chir. Trans., 1878, 39 (literature). 2 Virchow's Archiv, xxix., 1864, 358, and xxxiii., 1865, 177 (copious literature). 3 De Fistulis Colli Cong., Berlin, 1832. Lehrbucli der allgemein. Pathol., 290. * Sur I'appareil branchial des Vertebres, Paris, 1877. « Tr. Path. Soc. Lend., 1878, 194. Fig. 241. JMachmenUjC ioFrontoMa.xs.U Aitachment of Cl/-9t to ^ IjaerymoMvxUC A figure of the front of the right facial region, designed to exhibit the points of attachments of congenital cysts of the cranial sutures. median sutures of the face, notably those of the hard palate, are probably caused by the continuation of lines of growth, after the right and left parts of the plane have joined one to the other. It is in like manner probable that the existence of ivory exostosis at the root of the nose and in the associated parts may have its origin in a similar deep-lying cause. On the Study of Correlated Parts.—From the facts of the normal development of the head, the face, the heart, ear, great vessels, and visceral arches, it is evi- dent that a lesion in a single organ lodged within the general region embraced by these structures should be studied with reference to the entire set of organs of which it is a part.' A gross lesion in one part may be correlated with "anomalies," or with "variation" in another. Many minute variations escape detection, unless they are carefully sought for, and it is probable, that unusual proportion in parts so remote as the ossicles, the nasal chambers, the hyoid apparatus, the great cervical and upper intra-thoracic vessels may be found to corre- late. The author has found congenital defects of speech to be associated with a shortened tongue, with absence of Shrapnell's membrane, with high arched palate, and nasal asymmetry. It would appear that the os.sicles of the ear are con- nected with the first and second visceral arches in ordi- nal arrangement with the series of cartilaginous rods within these arches. Thus the malleus is considered by Reichert to be the distal ossification in a series to which the remaining parts of the mandibular arch are ' See a case reported by Max Schultze (Virch. Arch., xx., 1860, 378 (fig.)), in which the first and second visceral arches, symme- trical facial failure, and deformity of the incus and stapes of one side, existed in a single specimen.