THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 712 divided into tliree portions, the scrotal, the pelvic, and the terminal portions. The scrotal portion ascends from the globus minor of the epididymis as a constituent part of the spermatic cord. This portion lies behind the spermatic vessels. The pelvic p)ortion includes the vas deferens as it lies in the abdomen and the pelvis. At the internal abdominal ring the tube is covered with peritoneum, and leaves the spermatic vessels to pass over the iliac vessels. It curves thence downward, crossing the re- mains of the hypogastric vessels to get to the median side of the ureter, whore it lies between the bladder and the rectum, adjacent to the vesiculje seminales. The term inal portion (ampulla) is slightly expanded before ending in the urethra. The vas deferens is about twenty-four inches in length, from one to one-and-a-half line in diameter. The walls are composed of three coats, a fibrous, a muscular, and a mucous coat. The inner coat is covered with cylindrical non-ciliated epithelium. The vas deferens can be felt by rectal palpation. Variations Tlie testicle may be absent in one side, con- stituting tbe condition of Monorchia. W. Gruber, who has analyzed tliree hundred cases of this condition, has de- termined that tlie riglit testicle is more frequently absent tluin the left, and that the procreative power of the indi- vidual is not impaired. When the testicle is malplaced, as, for example, wlien lodged in the perineum, it is important to remember that the tunica vaginalis is liable to be continuous witli the peri- toneum. This is especially apt to be tlie case in the child. Jas. E. Adams^ asserts tliat the liability diminishes as tlie adult condition is attained. He records a fatal issue of an attempt to restore a malplaced testicle. The testicle of the right and of the left side may be lodged each in a separate pouch, which represents the half of the scrotum. Various degrees of union of these separate sacs up to the stage of normal development of the scrotum have been recorded. They often coexist with malformation of the penis, especially with hypospadias. Ludwick'' describes ten instances in which the testicle was lodged in the perineum ; and other cases are mentioned by Humphry.' Remaeks.—The testicle may be drawn back into the abdomen. Such retrocession is not uncommon in infancy. In the subjects of congenital inguinal hernia, the testicle may recede at the time the hernial protru- sion is restored. In a case reported by H. W. Brock,^ 1 Lancet, May 27, 1871, 710. 2 Dub. Quart. Journ., xix. 76. ' Holmes's Sys. of Surg., vol. iv. * New York Med. Journ., 1873, 70. which terminated fatally by peritonitis, the vas defer- ens was found looped in the inguinal canal, and the testicle lying in the right iliac region. The vas defei'ens overlapped and bound down the ascending colon just above the ctecum.—Persistent pain in the testicles, according to Richet,' has been found associ- ated with aneurism of the descending aorta and com- pression of the sympathetic nerve. THE VESlCULiE SEMINALES. The Vesiculee Seminales constitute a pair of appen- dages to the vasa deferentia. Each mass is made up of a convoluted tube, and presents, when in position, an elliptical and somewhat flattened convex figure which is acutely narrowed toward the lower end to be received in the notch of the prostate gland. Tlie mass measures from one-and-a-half to two-and-a-half inches in length, and from four to six lines in width. The vesiculas seminales can be felt by palpation through the walls of the rectum. Variations The right and tlie left mass are often symmet- rical. The proportions stated may be exceeded—There appears to be no correlation between the testicle and the vas deferens. The vas deferens is in no way impaired in subjects in whom the testicle of the corresponding side is absent. Structure The tube when stretched out presents nume- rous sliort cixjcal branches of various lengths. Sometimes the entire organ is composed of two main diverticuli of about equal length. P^ach vesicula seminalis is composed of three layers: an outer (fibrous), a middle (muscular), and an inner (mucous) layer. The layer last mentioned is marked by reticulations resembling those seen in the gall-bladder. Some elastic fibres are also present. Lusclika describes a layer of muscular fibres passing across both vesiculaj seminales from side to side, which he denomi- nates the Compressor. Each vesicula seminalis lies to the outer side of the termination of the vas deferens, between the bladder and the rectum, and above the prostate gland of its own side. It may be intimately held to the upper border of the gland last mentioned in an oblique direction upward and outward. It is in direct con- tact posteriorly with the fascial covering from the latter organ upward to the cul-de-sac of peritoneum termed by Devonvilliers the prostatic peritoneal aponeurosis. The ejaculatory duct is usually described as the common duct resulting from the union of the vas deferens and the termination of the vesiculaj semi- nalis. It is, however, constructively the continuation • Anat. Chirurgicale, 569.