THE CHOROID COAT. OOO^OOO 593 fat, from -vvbicli it is separated by the capsule of TenoD, and receives the insertion of the straight and oblique periocular muscles. The sclera is thicker posteriorly than anteriorly. It is cup-shaped in form, and is perforated behind, or at its base, by the optic nerve; while it is open in front for union with the cornea. The corneal opening- is a little wider without than within. The optic nerve is received within the sclerotic coat one-tenth of an inch to the inner side of the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball. The nerve-fibres yield their neurilemma to the sclerotic coat, while passing through a sieve-like arrangement of scleral fibres, which has received in consequence the name of lam- ina crhirosa. Fis. 129. A frontal section of the orbit and contents—anterior half. 1. External Rectus ; 2 Levator Palpebrae ; 3. Superior Rectus ; 4. Superior Oblique ; 5. Lachrymal gland. The eyeball is surrounded by fat. The osseous structures to the median side of the orbit represent-the ethmoidal cells and other parts of the ethmoid bone and vomer. To the lateral side are seen the malar bone and the Temporal muscle. The membrane is white upon its outer surface, but brownish upon its inner, which has, from this fact, been called the lamina fusca. Upon this surface are found faint groovings for the long ciliary nerves. Structure—The fibres of the sclera arrange themselves into two more or less distinct sets, viz., the longitudinal and transverse. Between these a number of elastic fila- ments are sparsely distributed. The fibres of the tendons of the straight muscles are continuous with tlie longitudinal fibres, while those of the oblique muscles are continuous with the circular. The sclera is pierced about the entrance for the optic nerve by a number of canals, which extend perpendicularly or obliquely through the membrane, and are occupied by the ciliary arteries and nerves. The mem- brane is further pierced toward the corneal margin by seve- ral minute openings lor the entrance of veins. 76 Remarks.—The sclerotic coat, wdien softened by inflammatory process, may be distended by intra- ocular pressure to such a degree as to permit the choroid coat to be seen through the outstretched interlacing bands.—The coat is thicker than is nor- mal in hypermetropia and in phthisis bulbo, and is thinner than is normal in myopia; from its tough fibrous character it bears well the presence of sutures. The eyeball, when the eyelids are closed, is turned slightly upward. If a pointed instrument pierce the centre of the upper lid, it will not wound the cornea, but it Avill wound the sclera at a point below the cornea. THE CHOROID COAT. The Choroid Coat (choroidea) is the vascular mem- brane of the eye. It is of a dull brow^nish color, and lines the sclerotic coat. Anteriorly it is continuous with the iris, and posteriorly is pierced by the optic nerve. The choroid coat presents two layers, an outer and an inner.' The outer layer (lamina supra-choroidea) is a thin connective-tissue layer, resembling the lamina fusca of the sclera. It contains lymph-spaces which are continuous with the Ij^mph-space of the capsule of Tenon. The mrier layer (choroid proper) is the vascular layer, being composed of a network of ves- sels. The arteries are derived from the ciliary artery, and pierce the sclera around the optic nerve. They pass at first forward and finally inward, to end in the 130. The ciliary processes and iris, seen from behind, a, choroid coat; 6, ciliary processes ; c, iris-radiating fibres ; d, iris-circular fibres. radiate capillaries.—The veins of the choroid coat form figures somewhat similar to those of the ter- minal arteries, but pierce abruptly the sclerotic mem- ' Formerly the eighth layer (pigment layer) of the retina (q. v.) was described with the choroid coat.