THE PLEURAE. =X50^0<x:- 695 the name of the mediastinum. The left pleural sac, in consequence of the encroachment of the pericar- dium, is somewhat smaller than the right. Each pleura may be said to present for examina- tion a parietal and a pulmonic layer. The Parietal layer is subdivided into a costal, a dia- phragmatic, and a mediastinal portion. The costal portion is the thickest of the three divi- sions, and covers the ribs and intercostal spaces. Tlie riglit costal pleura extends in front to tlie external end of the fifth rih, and covers in a considerable portion of the corresponding half of the sternum. The diaphragmatic jmiton covers the Diaphragm. Between the root of the lung and the diaphragm extends a reflection of the pleura—the li'jamentum latum 2>ulmovis. A small portion of the margin of the Diapliragm is not covered by the pleura, but is in direct contact with the wall of the tliorax. The mediastinal ]iortion covers the med'an side of the lung, and is the most irregular of the divisions. It forms the lateral boundary of the several divisions of the mediastinum as it is defined from before backward. It covers the pericardium; and between the two passes the phrenic nerve. Anteriorly the med'astinal portion is in relation with the right internal mammary artery, and posteriorly, as it forms the side of the posterior mediastinum, it is in relation with the thoracic aorta and the oesophagus. The pulmonary pleura is more adherent to the lung than is the parietal to the ribs; the diaphragmatic layer is also more adherent than the parietal. The upper part of the right pleura terminates a little to the right of the median line of the sternum, and may even gain the left edge of the sternum. The left, on the contrary, may not reach further toward the median line than the first left costal cartilage. The parietal layer covers the apex of the lung. It is here strengthened, according to Sibson, by a fas- cicle of the deep cervical fascia which extends from the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra to the inner border of the first rib. The Pulmonic layer is thinner than the parietal, and is more translucent. Beneath the costal and mediastinal portions a small layer of loose connective tissue is found, which is called the sub- serous layer (endo-thoracic fascia) ; it is but sparsely devel- oped in the diapiu'agmatic and tlie pulmonic portions. The right pleural sac, in addition to being the larger, is slightly shorter tiian the left. According to Liischka, it ex- lends behind as far iis the lower border of the ninth rib, while the left pleural sac reaches to the lower border of the tenth rib. ZuckerkandP found the pleura receiving fibres of insertion of a muscle which is known as the Scalenus Minimus. This muscle is described as arising from the transverse processes of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebra3 (or the latter only), or the upper border of the first rib, and is inserted into the top of the pleura. Quain (ii. 508) gives a similar refe- rence to Sibson. Remarks.^—The superior cul de-sac is important from its relation to the subclavian artery. It is found in contact with the first rib for a distance of ten or twelve mm., and lies in contact with the subclavian artery from the region of the first intercostal space to the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and the anterior branch of the eighth cervical nerve. During an operation for ligation of the right sub- clavian artery near its origin, Colles perforated the pleura with the aneurism needle. Babbling of air in the wound and increased difficulty of respiration followed. Death occurred on the ninth day. The following table is based upon a study of the extent of the pleura above the clavicles, including one hundred observations, by Dr. C. E. Isaacs:^— The extent of the pleura above the clavicle in inches:— Right. Left. Sternal end, 1.19 0.95 Central portion, 1.42 1.23 Outer edge, 1.23 1.07 Lateral extent of the pleura above the clavicle:— Right. Left. Sternal edge from median line, 0.-i6 0.88 Outer edge from median line, 2.90 2.89 Width of pleura above clavicle, 2.88 2.01 In 11 cases it extended 2 in. above the clavicle. In 5 cases it did not arise above the clavicle. In 11 cases the inner edge of the pleura of the right side extended across and to the left of the median line. The top of the pleural sac is not always dome- shaped, but sometimes forms culs-de sac extending upward and sometimes laterally into the recesses at the root of the neck. The subclavian artery in the third division of its course occasionally rests upon, or is in contact with, the pleura. This occurred in one case out of four. ' Zeit. fiir Anat. uiid Eiitwickelungscli., ii. 2 Tlie reraai'ks and relations of the pleura to the ribs art of under one head. 3 Trans. N. Y. Aead., 1857, ii. 3. treated