iv PREFACE. oOO^O-O^i -=- none in wliich the facts set forth were not clearly demonstrated; and with this limitation in mind, attempts have been made to present an outline of the clinical biography, so to speak, of each and every part of the economy, and to note, however briefly, the varied and momentous deviations from the normal structure which it has revealed. Tlie attempt to introduce a modified vomenchitnre such as that proposed by Prof Burt G. Wilder has not been carried to the extent the author would have desired. The profession is con- servative, and no reasonable expectation can be entertained that the nomenclature now in use— with all its absiirdities and imperfections—will be materially modified until a congress of teachers, convened for the purpose, agree upon a list of terms which will be introduced into the text-books and which will be employed in teaching. The main object the author has had in view in using terms which are not in general use was to facilitate the task of describing the structures of the body. There is some prospect that the terms " median" and " lateral" will come into use; and it is reasonably certain that when an observer accustoms himself to such terms he will unwillingly relinquish them. " Internal" and " external" are often used synonymously with " median" and " lateral." But in some relations " internal" might be confounded with the " interior" of the body or of an organ, and " external" with the superficies. Yet " median" and " lateral" are awkward terms when applied to the teeth, and cannot in this instance be employed with advantage. In descriptions of spheroidal figures, as the eyeball, or forms which are derivative of the same, as the auditory labyrinth, the terms " meridional plane" and " equatorial plane" are more appropriate. In like manner the terms " frontal" or its equivalents "coronal" and "sagittal" are becoming more and more frequent in English writings. In the preparation of the work the author has received assistance from many of his friends, among whom he desires particularly to express acknowledgments to Drs. N. Archer Randolph, J. William White, Chas. H. Burnett, B. Alexander Randall, and George A. Piersol. Dr. John B. Deaver rendered valuable aid iii revising the proofs of the last section. Dr. E. C. Spitzka kindly assisted in reading the proofs of the minute anatomy of the nervous system. To Drs. Albert H. Smith, Wm. F. Norris, Alfred Stille, S. AVeir Mitchell, A. Van Harhngen, A. G. Heyl, H. F. Formad, J. Solis Cohen, and G. Davis, the author desires to return his thanks for the loan of books and for other courtesies. For the opportunity of using the section of the brain shown in figure 94, and those shown in figures 97 to 102—all of which are from preparations of Dr. Schmidt's—the author is indebted to the Committee on the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia. In conclusion, the author wishes to express his lasting sense of obligation to those noble men who sustain the library of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, and who, by a liberal and intelligent policy, enable its books to be loaned to the Fellows. By the aid afforded through such ruling the author's labors have been greatly facilitated. Philadelphia, September, 1884.