I THE SMALL from the very first a peculiarity of shape wliicli all the succeeding phenomena tend to increase. The inverted middle layer or thickness receives, not merely the inner thickness but a kind of conical wedge of the mesentery common to both. The com- pression thus exercised on the large and numerous mesenteric vessels soon brings about a complete stag- nation of their contents, followed by ecchymosis, or even by copious hemorrhage, in the adjacent un- injured mesentery, as well as by congestion and swelling of all the layers of the invaginated parts, and hemorrhage from the mucous membrane form- ing its innermost surface. Brinton' thus describes the appearance of this displacement: "Tlie axis of the invaginated part diverges from that of the bowel containing it until, as the inversion proceeds, it forms a segment of a much smaller circle, and points by the terminal orifice of this segment to the mesenteric edge of the outer layer, with which the lowest part of the inversion is often in contact. The more distensible external or convex part of the middle layer is for the same reason thrown into folds somewhat resembling valvulte conniventes." The process is modified by the presence of the ileo- c£ecal valve. A constriction just above the valve will, by its pressure downward, carry the valve, ver- miform appendix, and caecum downward within the colon. As a very rare occurrence the ileum passes into the caecum through the ileo-cjEcal valve.^ As a result of obstruction of the large intestine fecal matter may be forced up through the ileo-cfecal valve. In order that this should be possible, extreme distension of both ctecum and ileum becomes necessary, for in this way the efficiency of the valve is de- stroyed. Torsion of the small intestine is due to the irreo"- ular action of both the longitudinal and the circular fibres. It is occasionally met with as a complication in hernia. M. W. Taylor^ has recorded a rare instance of a torsion in the form of a knot on the lower part of the ileum occurring in a married woman forty years of age. Extrinsic causes of obstruction are frequently found in adventitious bands of fibrous tissue extendingr between the loops of small intestine or from them to adjacent organs. J. H. Aldridge* has recorded a case in which the ileum above the ileo-ca3cal valve had become lirmly adherent to the posterior wall of the uterus. > Loc. cit., p. 44, figs. 2 Ihid., 51. 3 Ellin. Mefl. .Jouni., Aug. 1S71, 12G (fig.). * Laiic.'t, 1860, ii. 2G2. INTESTINE. 651 Obstruction by incarceration is rarely of a charac- ter differing from inguinal or femoral hernia (q. v.), although it is necessary to bear in mind the possibil- ity of an incarceration due to causes of another character. Of this condition a few examples will be given. A loop of small intestine may be caught, according to Delafield,^ in the foramen of "Winslow. Two feet of small intestine have been known to pass up into the left pleural cavity behind the H'jo,- mentum arcuatum externum in a child ten days old.^ The escape of a knuckle of intestine through a hole in the omentum has occurred. Again, diverticuli of intestine may act as factors in confining the bowel. The existence of diverticuli in the form of long finger-like projections from the small intestine has long been known. They join the convex surface of the ileum about three feet above the ileo-c^ecal valve, and vary in size from a small tit-like projection adhe- rent to the mesentery to a process over three inches long. The walls possess abundant muscular tissue, and are furnished with villi. They have been known to become ulcerated. Their origin is believed to be due to the retention of the duct of communication between the vitelline sac and the intestine. In some cases diverticuli retain their primal relations to the um- bilicus either by the full diameter, or by a fibrous cord. Hyrtl^ found one with five branches in a hemicephalic monster. T. W. King^ found a di- verticulum united to the umbilicus in a child a year old. Jas. II. Thompson'^ describes a case of a male aged twenty-five years in whom a coil of jejunum escaped through a space formed by adhesions between the end of a diverticulum and the mesenteiy, where it became strangulated. Parise^ describes a similar case in which abdominal section was performed. Eupture of the jejunum occurs so frequently at the upper portion of this bowel as to lead Poland^ to the conclusion that the fixation of the transverse portion of the duodenum causes the strain of the con- tusion to be most severely felt at or near the end of the last-named viscus. Thus, out of nine cases col- lected by him, in wliich the exact locality of the rupture was stated, seven occurred near the duode- num, one at the junction of the middle and upper 1 Pathological Anatomy. 2 Boston Med. and Surg. Journ., 1838, 114. 3 Typog. Auat., 684. < Guy's Hosp. Rep., i., N. S., 1842, 470 (Figs.). * N. Y. Med. Jouin., xiv. 5.5. •> New York Med. Journ., xviii. 113. ' Poland, A., Gay's Hosp. Rep., 1858, series iii., iv. 123.