OEGANS OF SENSE. 594 OOO^OOO brane about midway between the cornea and tbe entrance of the optic nerve. Fig. 131. Transverse section through the choroid coat of the ox. Magnifying power about 250. a, chorio-capillaris, outside this is a layer of elastic fibrils, shown on the left of the figure ; b, the layer of large veins, vena! vorticos;e ; c, the outer layer, containing numerous pigmented connective-tissue cells Hattened in a direction parallel to the surface. At the terminal portion of the choroid membrane, viz., at the point of junction with the iris, are found a number of folds of the choroid coat, known as the ciliarTj j)i~ocesses. They are club-shaped—the thicker ends projecting inward—about seventy in number, and arranged radially about the peripheral margin of the iris. Between the processes which form the larger group are placed a number of smaller ones. —Collectively the ciliary processes constitute the ciliary body.—This term is also used to include the entire thickness of the choroid, which corresponds in position to the ciliary processes. In the latter sense the ciliary body may be said to be that thickened portion of the choroid coat which is defined internally by the ciliary processes, externally by the sclera. It is continuous posteriorly with the choroid proper, and antei'iorly with the iris. It is occupied by the ciliary muscle. The Ciliary Muscle is a small triangular group of unstriated muscular fibres, having a tendinous origin from the corneo-scleral junction to the inner side of the canal of Schlemm. It is composed of two sets of fibres, the radiate and the circular. The radiate fibres (meridional fibres) are inserted into the ciliary pro- cesses. The circular fibres (circular ciliary ligament) lie to the inner side of the preceding fibres, and pass circularly around the eye, - within the zone of the ciliary processes. The ciliary muscle, while properly embraced with- in the account of the choroid coat, is found to be in Bloodvessels (injected) of the iris and choroid membrane of the eye of a child. «, Capillaries of the choroid ; ?>, position of ora serrata of the retina; c, b'oodvessels derived frorn those of the ciliary processes, and from e, those of the iris ; /, capillary network of the pupillary border. a measure distinct from it, inasmuch as its radiate fibres are firmly attached to the corneo-scleral junc- tion. The structure separates the choroid membrane from the iris, as the ciliary processes separate the pigment layer of the retina from the uvea of the iris. THE IMS. The Iris is a circular muscular membrane, situated in the anterior chamber between the lens and the cornea. It is placed nearly in a vertical plane, its posterior surface resting (near the centre) on the capsule of the lens. The iris is perforated by the round opening of the ^t/j327 (pupillary margin), which is not situated in the axis of the eye, but is a little EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCVI. Fig. 1. A longitudinal section of the optic nerve and of Fig. 4. A horizontal section of the right eye and orbit, ex- the optic papilla magnified. hibiting the relation of the optic nerve and of the Fig. 2. A diagrammatic figure of the lachrymal apparatus. internal and external recti muscles. Fig. 3. A dissection of the face, showing the position of the Fig. 5. A trans\ erse section of the optic nerve magnified, lachrymal nasal duct. (For lachrymal dvct, read "lachrymo-na.-aI duct.")