ORGANS OF SENSE. 600 cx:>0§§ooo The lamellae are softer toward the periphery than at the centre of the lens; the latter part, from this fact, receiving the name of the imcleus of the lens. When the lens is macerated or hardened in chromic acid, there can be seen upon the anterior and poste- rior surfaces three lines or rays diverging from a central point, which divides the surface into three compartments, each compartment being composed of about one hundred and twent_y lamellae. The two surfaces do not correspond with respect to the posi- tion of these lines, those upon the anterior surface alternating with those upon the posterior. Thus the lines present a Y-shaped figure behind, while in front the Y is inverted, thus A. The lamellae abut against the margin of these lines, and extending around the lateral margin, they assume a slightly wavy appearance. Variations—Tiie lens in the child is more convex than in the aduh, but is flattened in the aged. Remarks.—The lens in conditions of diseased action may become opaque, with various degrees of softening or hardening. The cortical portions of the lens may be soft, while the interior portions become hard. The lens, after the thirty-fifth year, becomes of firmer consistence than at any earlier period of life. The degree of firmness of the lens holds a direct relation to age. The lens resists the influence of the ciliary muscle just in proportion as its parts become of firmer consistence and of diminished elasticity. THE AQUEOUS HUMOR. The Aqueous Humor is the clear watery fluid occupying the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. llie Anterior Ghamher.—The anterior chamber is the space between the cornea and the iris, being sepa- rated by the last-named structure from the posterior chamber, except at the pupillary orifice. The Posterior Chamber.—The posterior chamber is the space between the iris and the anterior capsule of the lens. The ends of the ciliary process project slightly within this chamber. From the contact of the pupillary margin of the iris with the capsule, the two chambers do not communicate in the ordinary movements of the iris. When the pupil is widely dilated, however, the two chambers are thrown into one. Remarks. — The aqueous humor reaccumulates rapidly after loss as by a wound or by paracentesis. The chamber of the aqueous humor is the occasional seat of parasitic invasion, and naay lodge a foreign body. Pus when formed within the anterior cham- ber gravitates and forms a layer of pus at the bottom of the chamber, which has received the name of hypopion. Variations—Instances of persistent hyaloid artery are rarely met with. Dareste' has observed that in hernia cerebri, or in exencephala, and in cyclops, the eyeball is imperfectly formed, the lens and vitreous humor being notably defective. The nerves of the retina are rarely provided with nerve- sheaths. When such sheaths are present, the appearance of the eye-ground is remarkably distinct from that of the normal eye, since the nerve-sheaths appear in the image of the ophthalmoscope as white opaque tracks along the course of the nerves. THE EAR. The Ear is the organ of hearing. It is divided into three portions as follows:— The Outer Ear. The Middle Ear. The Internal Ear. The Outer Ear comprises the auricle and the ex- ternal auditory meatus. The Middle Ear comprises the tympanic chamber with its contents and appendages. The contents of the tympanic chamber are the ossicles, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, which form an association of bones connected externally with the tympanic membrane, and internally with the internal ear. The appendages of the middle ear comprise the mastoid cells and the Eustachian tube. The Internal Ear includes the true organ of hear- ing and receives the auditory nerve. It communi- cates in the skeleton with the middle ear by two openings, the oval and the round window. In the undissected subject, the oval window is occupied by the base of the stapes and its annular ligament, and the round window by a membrane. THE OUTER EAR. The Outer Ear is composed of— The Auricle. The External Auditory Meatus. The Auricle (pinna) is an appendage to the exter- nal auditory meatus which is designed for the recep- tion of waves of sound. Its form is nearly elliptical, wider above than below, and is composed of an ' Comptes Reudus, xov. 44.