THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION. 688 ' OOO^OO-^ to a deep pink or light red at its base down into the vestibule. The false vocal cords are of a light pink hue, while the true vocal cords are of a pearly or yellowish-white. Fis. 186. \ From a loDgitudinal section through the ventricle of the larynx of a child, a. True vocal cord; 6, false vocal cord; e, a nodule of elastic cartilage; (Z, ventricle ; Z, lymphatic tissue; Of, bundles of the Thyro-Arytenoid muscle in transverse section. According to P. Coven/ the vocal cord may contain a few minute racemose glands. The Infra-Glottic Region of the larynx is a rounded space corresponding in shape nearly to the general outline of the cricoid cartilage, but somewhat modi- fied at the side by the lower two of the crico-thyroid ligaments. Its junction with the trachea may be called the inferior aperture of the larynx. The mucous membrane is everywhere smooth and adherent, re- sembling in general appearance that of the larynx. The Laryngeal Iraaye.—At the risk of repeating in part the description of the larynx, the account of the laryngeal image will include the following : The laryngeal image is a foreshortened view of the parts included within the laryngeal aperture when seen reflected in the laryngeal mirror. Describing the component parts of the image from above downward, since the anterior border of the laryngeal aper- ture is also the upper border of the image, the first structures seen are the cervical free edge and the cushioning base of the e-piglottis. The epiglottis may be curved forward, may be thickened and so in- ' Arcliiv. de Physiologie norm, et patliol., 1874, 92. PI. vi. clined as partially, if not entirely, to obscure the parts lying below the plane of the aperture. At the sides of the aperture are seen the aryteno-epiylottic folds, together with the eminences of the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. The latter surmounts the arytenoid cartilage, which moves coincidently with it. The base of the arytenoid itself may be determined to the median side of the cartilage of Santorini. Between the bases of the arytenoid cartilages is seen the inter- arytenoid notch. Lying within the aperture, but on a lower plane, extending across the angle formed by the junction of the contour of the epiglottis with that of the aryteno-epiglottic fold, is the false vocal cord. Lying to the median side of the pinkish false vocal cord is seen the true vocal cord, which extends across the plane of the laryngeal aperture in a nearly straight line. The inferior third of the true vocal cord represents the vocal process of the arytenoid cartilage ; it is of a yellow or white color, and is rigid in form. The superior two-thirds represents the position of the Thyro-Ai-ytenoid muscle and the mucous membrane over it. It is of a delicate pearl tint, and is vibratile in many of the acts of speech. The chink lying between the false and the true vocal cords corresponds to the position of the orifice of the ventricle, while the space between the true vocal cords is recognized as the glottis. In favorable sub- jects a few tracheal rings, and even the orifices of the place of division of the bronchial tubes, also can be seen. The relations between the several parts of the image undergo changes in respiration and in speech. The most striking of these consist of the widening or narrowing of the inter-arytenoid space and of the glottis. When the inter-arytenoid space is widened the baggy mucous membrane over the arytenoid eminence and the cartilages of Santorini are seen lying as a broad smooth ellipse against the posterior wall of the pharynx; when the space is narrowed the mucous membrane is somewhat corrugated, and to a slight degree removed from contact with the pharynx. When the glottis is widened the tracheal rings may be seen through a wide, nearly lozenge- shaped space, each border of the true vocal cord being slightly angulated at the point where the vocal pro- cess of the arytenoid cartilage is defined. When the glottis is narrowed the shape of the inter- space between the cords varies according to the rela- tive disposition of the vocal processes and of the vibratile portion of the true vocal cords. These are subject to contrasts, as the parts are disposed to emit