628 ORGANS OF SENSE. O-CXC^OOO cular disease, and are at times tlie chief cause of the irritative cough so noticeable in the first stage of phthisis.^ Fibrous tumors are of rare occurrence in this locality, but tend to be developed toward the base of the tongue. W. Hunt operated on a girl of sixteen, the basal portion of whose tongue was entirely occu- pied by a fibrous tumor. The patient died suddenly on the third day. In acute glossitis the tongue may become enor- mously swollen, and life be threatened by pressure of the organ upon the larynx. According to Erb, bilateral paralysis of the tongue is a characteristic feature of progressive bulbar pa- ralysis. Incoordinated movements of the tcfngue are seen in chronic alcoholism, in other adynamic states as the typhoid condition, in some forms of chorea, etc. The prehensile portion, being supported to a less degree than is the basal, exhibits these changes almost exclusively. (d) Fixation of the tongue. The tongue is the most movable of any part of the oral and of the hyoidean apparatus. The chief attachment of the organ is to the hyoid bone, but the Genio-Hyoid muscles are powerful tractors in maintaining the tongue in con- tact with the inferior maxilla. When these muscles are divided, as in the operation of amputation from beneath, the tongue falls backward and overlaps the glottis. The same position of the tongue is assumed in asphyxia and in some of the sequelae of whooping- cough. (e) The dislribution of the ''fury The "/i<r" on the tongue is either confined to the basal third or to the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum. The basal third lies within the pharynx, and is covered with tenacious '/wr" in many diseases of the pharynx and larynx, while the 'fur'''' of the anterior two-thirds pertains more particularly to general states of the health. When the "■fur''' is confined to one side of the oral portion of the tongue, it may be due to local disease, as in an affection of the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, or to the irritation excited by a fragment of a tooth, etc. ' The tongue may be divided into an apical and a basal portion, ■which division answers pretty nearly to'tlie division above adopted. Tliese two portions in many animals are sharply separated by a difference in the plane of the upper free surface, the plane of the basal portion being higher than that of the apical. The apical portion is th« prehensile portion in animals of tlie ruminant and edentate types, and in man is the portion which chiefly relates to the formation of many consonants. The Alveolo - Lingual Groove. — When the tongue is at rest, there extends between it and the gum of the lower jaw a groove, which has received the name of the alveola-lingual groove. Beneath the tip of the organ, this space is incompletely divided by the fra3num. The base of the groove is distin- guished by its whitish color, and has commonly upon its surface a vein whose thickest portion is directed from behind forward. The Mylo-Hyoid muscle lies immediately beneath the surface, and, from its analogy to the Buccinator and Constrictor muscles of the pharynx, may be con- sidered a submucous structure. The mucous mem- brane is but loosely attached to it. On either side the groove is marked by an irregular fimbriated line answering to the position of the sublingual salivary glands. Beneath the tongue on either side is seen the opening of the duct of the submaxillary salivary- gland, which forms a little elevation sometimes called the sublingual caruncle. The alveolo-lingual groove is best developed in the negro. Eemaeks.—The duct of the submaxillary gland (duct of Wharton) may be occluded by calculi, or, rarely, by foreign bodies. By the accumulation of saliva in the duct from these causes, a large retention cyst (ranula) may form. Mr. Jessop' mentions the case of a male, aged twenty-four, in whom the calculi had been noticed in the mouth for a year. Suddenly a swelling made its appearance, which so rapidly in- creased in size as to form by the fourth day a mass as large as a hen's egg. The patient suflered from pain in the neck, and had difficulty in breathing and swal- lowing. Two calculi, each the size of a pea, were removed from the right submaxillary gland, when a gush of retained saliva followed, and the symptoms subsided. The other conspicuous lesion of this region is cystic tumor. This disease has long been con- sidered the result of obstruction of Wharton's duct; but, as shown by C. D. Weber,^ is more frequently developed from the synovial sac, described by Fleish- man as lying close to the fra?num, on the outer side of the Genio-Glossus muscle, and beneath the mucous membrane of the tongue.^—The pressure on the hyoid apparatus by a large cystic tumor is often sufficient to induce apnoea. Bransby Cooper narrates a case in which a prompt opening of the cyst was required to save the life of the patient.—Another form of cystic tumor, distinct from the foregoing, lies deeper than 1 Br. Med. Journ., 1871, 120. 2 Virchow's Archiv, vi. 27.