THE BLADDEE. ooO^OCx: 703 uteri was found surrounded by indurated connective tissue. Within this mass was an ill-defined cavity into which the ureter opened, and connecting this cavity with the canal of the cervix was a canal of the fine- ness of a hair; above the ureter was dilated. A hydatid tumor may compress the ureter within the pelvis. Mr. Murchison^ describes a cyst lying behind the uterus and forcing this viscus down so as to cause it to appear at the vulva. Another smaller cyst was found in the same subject lying at the right side of the pelvis. The ureters were compressed, and the pelves of the kidneys slightly dilated. The kid- neys were small and granular. With respect to the lesions of the ureter A. Po- land^ presents the following excellent summary :— " The only vulnerable parts of the ureter are its commencement at the pelvis of the kidney, and the first few inches of its course. Here it is situated in the loin, and may undergo stretching from inordinate torsion of the body, or may be exposed to external violence from severe contusions in this region. Hence in all cases recorded, injury to the ureter has been found close to the kidney. The ureter may be rup- tured by severe contusions without lesion of any other important structure, the escape of the urine into the cellular tissue behind the peritoneum inducing perito- nitis. This condition may be complicated with lesion of the kidneys and other important structures. The ureter has also been injured by penetrating wounds, and may be obliterated by diseased action." The ureter is so intimately united with the tissues involved in ovarian and uterine disease that it may be opened or ruptured in ovariotomy and related operations. Such an accident occurred to Simon, who cured the urinary fistule thereby established by excision of the corresponding kidney. Von Nuss- baum relieved a similar condition by deflecting the fistulous tract into the summit of the bladder.^ THE BLADDER. The Bladder (fig. 2, Plate LXXIV.; fig. 2, Plate CVII.; figs. 3 and 4, Plate CVIII.; fig. 3, Plate CIX.; and Figs. 19-i and 195) is the reservoir for urine. It is an elliptical or egg-shaped sac projected from the front of the genito-urinary tract between the termination of the ureters and the origin of the urethra. Its capacity varies greatly, but may be said to range from six to thirteen ounces. It has been fre- 1 Diseases of the Liver, 109. « Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1868, 85. 3 Aerztliohes InteU.-BLatt, 1876, Nos. 7 and 8. Trans, in Ed. Mod. Journ., 1876, July 1. quently asserted that the bladder of the female is larger than that of the male. While it is true that with some females the bladder may be larger, it is now believed that the average capacity of the female bladder is actually less than that of the male. The longest diameter of the bladder is vertical, namely, from the base to the summit. The greatest transverse diameter of the bladder in the female is thi'ee-fourths of an inch to one and one-fifth inch above the internal orifice of the urethra.^ The posterior surface is more convex than the an- terior, and the entire viscus is somewhat compressed from side to side. When seen from before the bladder is of a triangular shape. It is reasonable to suppose that in the living state the weight of the intestine must tend to flatten the summit and in part the posterior wall. — When empty the bladder of the female is collapsed, the sides and summit are in con- tact, and on section the cavity presents the appear- ance of a mere chink. The bladder is divided topographically into the summit, the sides, and the base, and presents an anterior and a posterior surface. The summit (superior fundus) is rounded, covered with peritoneum, and continuous with the cord repre- senting the remains of the urachus, which ascends as far as the umbilicus. The lateral surfaces (sides) are in contact with the true lateral ligaments derived from the recto-vesical fascia. In common with the preceding they are covered with peritoneum. The Lose (inferior fundus, bas-fond) is directed toward the perineum, and is in relation with the rectum of the male, and the neck of the uterus and vagina in the female. The former relation is con fined to a small triangular space having the vas deferens and vesiculEe seniinales at the sides, and the prostate gland in front. The cervix or 7ieck of the bladder is a term used to signify the region directly behind the internal urethral orifice.—The aiiterior surface projects a short distance above the pubis, but is not covered with peritoneum. It forms an angle with the base at the urethral orifice. In front are the pubis and a delicate layer of fat.—The posterior surface of the bladder is continuous with the base. In addition to the relations of the peritoneum al- ready noted, there remain to be mentioned the folds of that membrane which extend from the bladder to associated parts. These are five in. number, and are known as the false li'jaments of the hladdcr. ' Panscli, Archiv f. Auat. u. Pliys., 1874, 702.