699 THE KIDNEYS. fX^O^-CXX- into the pelvis, where they constitute the renal papilloe. Each pyramid is of a grayish tint, except at the papilla, where it is of a purplish-red. Each papilla is pierced by numbers of minute orifices, representing the termination of the excretory tub- ules {q. v.). Minute structvre The kidney is an association of tubu- lar convohited glands,—a pyramid representing a convergent group of closely related bundles of urtniferous tubules wliose origin is in the cortex. The real divisions of the kidney structure, therefore, are not those of cortex and medulla, not- witlistanding tlie apparent value of this distinction, but are between tlie pyramids or groups of the tubules ; for it is between these that the arteries, nerves, and connective tissue secure access to the tubules, and by tiiese in part tliat the veins and lymphatics escape ; wliile in the f etal kidney dis- tinct lobulations are limited by the cellular interspaces. From a section through the cortical substance of the kidney of a human fuitus, showing a Malpighian corpuscle, a, glomerulus ; 6, tissue of the glom- erulus ; c, epithelium covering the glomerulus; d, flattened epithelium lining Bowman's capsule; e, the capsule itself;/, uriniferous tubules in cross sec- tion. A uriniferous tubule arises witliin tlie cortex by a bulb- ous expansion about a small rounded tuft made up of arteries and veins, the whole, vessels and envelope, being called a Malpiyhian corpuscle, which will be described under the head of the bloodvessels. The expansion of the tubule is called Bowman's capsule; the tuft of vessels, he Malpig- hian tuft or glomerulus. The tubule, as it leaves the glomerulus, becomes abruptly constricted, forming the neck of the Malpighian corpuscle, afterwards becoming tortuous, constituting the tubuli contorti. Farther on most of the tubules are observed to become contracted and to form long loops, the loops of Henle, which extend through the boundary layer to the margin of or even into the papillary portion of the medulla, and, returning to the cortex, again become widened and tortuous before emptying into the straight tubules (tubiili rectce). Tiience they pass directly inward to the pyramids of Malpighi. The lower portions of the uriniferous tubules present a diameter varying from o^ryth to 4' jjth of an incli, the convoluted tubes and the smaller straight tubes, g^oth of an inch. The raceme-like clusters of the Malpighian tufts and the tortuous origin and termination of the looped tubules give the characteristic expression to the cortex. When these parts are not aggregated near the superficies of the organ, but are diffused through the kidney, as is the case in birds and reptiles, no cortical portion exists. The groups of tufts and tortuous tubules form elongated masses broader without tlian within, and thus enable the straight tubes leaving the convoluted ones at the inner extremity of a cluster to enter the pyramids of Malpighi, while those at its upper portion will pursue a course almost equal to the entire thickness of the cortex before entering the pyramid. Diagram of the vessels of the kidney, ai, Interlobular artery; vi, inter- lobular vein ; </, glomerulus of Malpighian corpuscle ; vs, vena stellata; ar, arteria; recta;; vr, vena; recta;; ah, bundle of arterije recta;; dJi, bundle of vena; recta; ; -op, network of vessels around the mouth of the ducts at the apex of the papilla;. The collection of straight tubes between the groups of tufts and their convoluted tubules has received the name of the pyramid of Ferrein, pyramidal process, or medul- lary rays. Several of these correspond to the base of a