OEGANS OF SENSE. 586 the orbit, where it has received the name of the external cantlial ligament (external palpebral liga- ment), and is continuous witli the tarsal cartilage. Towards the inner angle of the palpebral fissure, it strengthens the opposed border of the canthus, and is continuous with the tendon of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum muscle. The Meibomian glands (palpebral glands). The posterior surfaces of the tarsal cartilages are grooved for tlie reception of numerous glands, which open upon the margins of the eyelids. They vary in num- ber from twenty-five to thirty in the lower lid, and from thirty-five to forty in the upper. Each gland is composed of imperfectly defined lobules attached to a single straight duct. The secretion of the Mei- bomian glands is sebaceous in character, and serves to lubricate the edges of the lids, and-to prevent the lachrymal secretion from flowing oat upon the face. The Eyelashes. The edges of the palpebral fissure are furnished with numerous curved hairs, forming the eyelashes. They are arranged in two or three irregularly wavy rows: ihe upper set curve down- ward and forward, the lower set upward and forward. The Muscles. The muscles of the eyelids are three in number, namely: (1) The palpebral fibres of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, which are arranged in a thin layer parallel to the line of greatest length of the eyelids. (2) The Orbito-Palpebral fibres (H. Miiller and Sappey), which are situated deeper than the preceding, and are arranged at right angles, e., vertically to the foregoing. (3) The fibres of termi- nation of the Levator Palpebrse muscle, which, by their insertion into the palpebral ligament, and asso- ciation with the orbito-palpebral fibres, may be here included. The Conjunctiva. The conjunctival chamber is the space between the eyelids and the eyeball. It is lined with a mucous membrane, the conjunctiva^ and receives the secretion of the lachrymal and conjunc- tival glands. The conjunctiva is continuous with the nasal mucous membrane through the lachrymo-uasal ducts. It is composed of two portions, a palpebi-al and an ocular. The palpebral lager is in close connection with the eyelids. It is thinner and more vascular than the ocular layer. The vessels are derived from the superior and inferior ophthalmic arteries. The ocular lager consists of a scleral portion and a corneal reflection of its epithelium. The scleral por- tion is freely movable upon the eyeball—-a feature due to the necessity of motion between the eyeball and the orbit. The vessels are derived from the lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, and anastomose with those of the ciliary arteries. The nerves are derived from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. At the junction of the scleral portion with the cornea, a crescentic fold called the limbvs co7ijunctivse, is seen in the aged, which measures half a line in thickness. The corriealrejleciion is very thin and transparent. It is closely adherent to the cornea, and in health is without bloodvessels. The portion between the palpebral and ocular layers presents some features of interest, being near the bases of both lids, and termed the fornix conjunctive^. The conjunctiva is here loosely attached, and is rich in minute racemose glands. Toward the palpebral por- tion, namely, at the termination of the tarsal carti- lage, are numerous papilla3 (conjunctival papillae), best marked in the upper eyelid, which are engorged in catarrhal conditions.—The union between the two layers at the inner canthus marks the lachrgmal caruncle. This structure occupies the pos'tion of the internal canthus, and is slightly movable by traction of the eyelids, yet it is concealed by their closure ; it is composed for the most part of sebaceous glands, and is fnrnislied with a few small white hairs. To the outer side of the caruncle is a vertical fold of the conjunctiva, the plica semilunaris; this fold appa- rently belongs to the scleral portion, but is believed to be the rudiment of the nictitating membrane of lower animals, under which term is included a sup- plementary eyelid acting from within outward. It contains a small quantity of unstriped muscular fibres. Minute Anatomg. The conjunctiva is composed of three layers: the stratified pavement epithelium, the basement membrane upon which the former rests, and the connective tissue matrix of the mucous membrane proper, arranged after the manner found on other mucous surfaces. Upon the cornea the first two layers alone are seen. It is the rapid dis- appearance of the epithelium that causes the duski- ness of the cornea to be so soon apparent after death. Under the head of the oculo-palpebral groove may be described a space between the eyeball and the eyelid. It is six or seven lines in depth in the upper eyelid, and four lines in depth in the lower. Eemarks.—An instrument penetrating the eyelids at a point beyond the limits of the oculo-palpebral groove, would not involve the conjunctiva.' Mal- gaigne fixes this limit for the upper eyelid at seven or eight lines from the edge of the lid, and for the ' Richet, Aiiat. Cliirurg., 18(jO, 314.