'63 THE REGION OF THE TRACT, ETC. OMPHALO-MESENTERTC — 'XXO^<X>^. between the retained patch of shaggy chorion and the viemhrana decldua seriiona (Fig. 235). Fig. 235. Pregnant hiiinau ntorns and its coutonts, ahont the end of the seventh month, sliovving the relations of the cord, placenta, and membranes. 1, Decidua vera ; 2, decidua reflex ; 3, chorion ; 4, amnioa. The phicenta serves as the medium of interchange of nutritive and excreted material during pregnancy. At birth the attachments are loosened; the placenta (fcetal placenta) is severed from the uterine wall (ma- ternal placenta), and comes away as so much useless material. Fi'om the moment of its severance the infant requires nourishment through the channels which characterize all forms of extra-uterine ex- istence. The structure of the placenta has been made the subject of special study by many accomplished ana- tomists since the time of William Hunter, and it yet remains in some particulars a subject of controversy. The following description, abridged from an account^ by Prof. Turner, is herewith introduced. The relation of the fcetal and maternal portions of the placenta can be best studied at about the fifth month, Avhen the decidua reflex and villi, connected with the non-placental area of the chorion, have atro- phied, and the villi in the placental area have under- gone a great increase. Well-marked bars or dissepi- ments of decidua serotina pass through the thickness of the placenta as far as the chorion, and divide it into lobes or cotyledons. These bands and their sub- divisions and separate trabeculte form the serotinal memhrane, which, giving rise to still more delicate offshoots, forms a minute intra-placental trabecular arrangement in the interstices of which the villi are ' Manual of Anatomy, 874. lodged. The maternal bloodvessels are now dilated into sinuses, and are also prolonged into the placenta along the cellular structures of the decidua serotina, so that the dilated vessels of the modified uterine mucous membrane are brought into relation with the vascular villi of the fcetal chorion. The placenta when matured presents the appearance of a disc- shaped spongy cake, which measures from seven to nine inches in diameter, and about one inch in thick- ness; toward its circumference it is somewhat thinner. The inner (chorionic) surface exhibits ramifications of the umbilical vessels, and is closely covered on its foetal side by the amnion; from its placental (outer, serotinal) side multitudes of arborescent vasculi villi arise (Fig. 236). Fig. 23(j. Diagram of the embryo and its vessels, showing the second or placental circulation. The intestine has become further developed, and the mesenteric arteries have enlarged, while the umbilical vesicle and its vascular branches are reduced in size. The large umbilical arteries are seen passing out to the placenta. The arrangement of the bloodvessels in the de- cidua serotina is as follows: The peculiar tortuous arteries of the decidua—the curling arteries—are con- tinuous with the convoluted uterine arteries. They pierce the decidua serotina, and ojien upon the pla- cental surface. The veins of the decidua serotina are directly continuous with the mouths of the curling arteries. These veins — the utero-placental veins—form an extensive series of large cavernous spaces (placental sinuses, lacunse, placental cells, inter-villal spaces, placental bag or sac) which freely communicate one with another, not only in a single lobe, but in adjacent lobes through imperfections in