THE OUTER —=00^000— EAR. 601 irregularly sculptured fibro-cartilage, connective tis- sue, muscles, and fat, the whole figure being covered with intesrument. The auricle in man is rudimental as compared with the same structure in many lower animals. The fibro-cartilage gives form to the auricle, the lobe alone excepted. It is attached to the tympanic portion of the temporal bone, and its depressions and elevations correspond with those of the auricle as a whole. The eminences on the anterior surface answer to depressions on the posterior surface, and vice versa The features of the fibro-cartilage not seen from without are the cauda helicis, a tapering process of inconstant proportions which passes down into the base of the lobe of the ear, a small process answer- ing to the external free margin known as the process of the helix (spine of the helix), and the various slits Fi-. 139. The cartilage of the auricle. The figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 are placed on or near fascicles of muscle-fibres. or fissures which are inconspicuous in the body of the cartilage, but which are well seen between the tragus and helix, and between the ring-like fissures of the concha (fissuras Santorini) as it approaches the pars tympardca. Tlie skin of the anterior surfaces of the auricle is held firmly to the perichondrium, in order to prevent an accumulation of fat from inter- fering with the reception of waves of sound. Fat is present in small quantity on the posterior surface of the auricle, where the skin is not firmly fixed to the perichondrium. In the ears of many healthy persons, well-defined folds of skin extend from the post-auricular space to the hinder surface of the auricle. The following are the main points in the nomen- clature of the external ear: An outer border termed the helix^ beginning as a thin elevated central root sharply limited above and in front, but becoming more obscure along its outer border, and finally lost before reaching the lobe (fig. 1, Plate XCVIL). 77 Within the periphery of the helix is a second eminence—the antihelix. Starting below the root of the helix, the antihelix describes a shorter curve to terminate in two fork-like processes, the upper blunt, the lower sharp, which are lost behind the acute anterior border of the helix. The depression between the helix and antihelix is termed the fossa of the helix; that between the forks of the antihelix the fossa of the antihelix. The antihelix is continuous below with the antitragus^ and thence through the line of the intertragus notch with the tragus. The space between the antihelix, antitragus, and tragus is called the concha^ and is crossed along its floor by the root of the helix. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the auricle are de- rived from the posterior auricular and temporal branches of the external carotid and at times from the occipital artery. Tlie branch of the posterior auricular artery which passes to the front part of the auricle effects entrance from below through the fissure in the fibro-cartilage between the helix and concha.—The veins empty into the external jugular vein, though small venules join the temporo-raaxillary vein. The nerves of the auricle are derived from the superficial cervical plexus through the auricularis masnus, from the auricular branch of the trifacial, and posteriorly from the facial nerve. The auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve, after giving a branch to the mucous membrane of the middle ear, also sends a branch to the auricle—a distribution in illustration of a fact often observed (see p. 461) that a nerve supplying a deep-seated region will be ex- pected to send a second branch to the superficial parts of the same region. The point at which the nerve effects entrance into the temporal bone, namely, at the outer border of the jugular foramen through an opening near the styloid process, is also the region corresponding to the first visceral cleft of the embryo.—The exact areas of distribution of the above nerves can sometimes be determined in paraly- sis of the separate branches. Remarks.—Gruber' mentions a case in which the Cauda helicis passed some distance into the lobe. It had been perforated in the procedure of piercing the ear. Severe inflammation of the auricle supervened, which extended to the retro-maxillary space, where an abscess formed.—The posterior surface of the auricle becomes swollen in erysipelas. Ossifications of the cartilage are occasionally met ' Lehrbuch die Ohrenheilkunde, 1870, 1871.