622 ORGANS OF SENSE. 000^0<X> slight tendency to pass upward to the olfactory por- tion. When it is desired to have air pass freely into the olfactory portion, the act of sniffing is resorted to. Variations The variations of the nasal chambers relate to the septum, to the turbinated bones, to the floor of tlie nose, and to the general subject of asymmetry. The septum is frequently deflected in civilized races. The deflection occurs at the line of the ethmoido-vomerine suture, and is more pronounced anteriorly than posteriorly. The angulation in the septum may be so pronounced in the chamber as to permit the end of the deflected portion to be received in the opening of the maxillary sinus. The septum varies remarkably in thickness, especially in the lines of the ethmoido-vomerine suture, and at the surfaces of junction with the triangular cartilage. It is of uniform thickness at the posterior nares, where, however, the mucous mem- bi'ane over it may be asymmetrically thickened The vomer at the base of the ethmoidal notch is subject to a peculiar form of liyperostosis, by which it is enormously thickened. With this condition are often associated an over- growth and deflection of the superior maxilla where it enters into the composition of the nasal septum—The vomer at the posterior nares may be deflected at its basal part. Connected with deflection of the nasal septum, and Fig. 152. Ad antevo-posterior section of the face, exposing the lateral wall of the nasal chamber. The figure is designed to exhibit the difference in the plane of the preinaxillary and the maxillary and palatal portions of tlie floor of the nose. most probably dependent upon it, is a deviation of the car. tilage of the septum. Congenital perforation of the septum is occasionally met with. To determine the fact whether a given instance of septal defect be of congenital or of acquired origin, it may be well to remember that congenital defects are apt to be multiple, and the septal opening to be associated with the presence of a hyperostosis in the roof of the mouth, asymmetiy of the facial bones, or other peculiarity, while acquired defect is apt to be of syphilitic origin, or to be the result of imperfect surgical operation. Congenital defects are, as a rule, in the triangular cartilage, just in advance of the ethmoidal notch, though they may be found in the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone. Tlie turbinated bones are subject to minute variation in form. The middle turbinated bone may be greatly reduced in size, and set relatively far back in the nasal chamber. The floor of the vestibule may be raised above the plane of the nasal chamber proper, and conceal the lower border of the inferior turbinated bone (see fig. 152). The floor of the nasal chamber proper may present a shallow depres- sion, and thus be exposed to inspection from in front of its entire length. The chambers may be asymmetrical. The left is com- monly the smaller. This contrast is particularly noticeable at the posterior nares, and is independent of the states of the nasal septum. The plane of the posterior nares, as a rule, slopes a little downward and forward. Remarks.—For clinical purposes, the nasal cham- bers may be studied under the following heads: (a) as divided into respiratory and olfactory portions; (h) as divided into the lasil chamber and the vesti- bule; (c) as divided into premaxillary, maxillary, and palatal portions; (cZ) as divided into the septum and the turbinated bones. (a) The nasal chambers as divided into respiratory and olfactory portions. The air passing out from the pharynx, being confined to the plane of the posterior nares, is not carried up to the olfactory region, so that the odors on the expired breath are not appreciated.— When the communication between the respiratory and olfactory portions is cut off, as by swelling of the mucous membrane at the region of union of these portions, loss of smelling supervenes.—Dis- charge which may accumulate about the middle tur- binated bone or in the upper portion of the vestibule cannot be removed by the act of blowing the nose, for the reason above assigned that the air of expiration cannot pass within the olfactory portion. Tlie act of blowing the nose, or the process of washing out the nose by a current thrown in from the naso-pharynx, will wash out the inferior meatus with ease, provided the discharge be not inspissated, and the parts of the floor of the nose be not abnormally disposed.