649 THE SMALL INTESTINE. When a closed gland is isolated it is called solitary; when a number are collected in a small space they are called agminated, and the group itself is commonly spoken of as a patch of Peyer or Peyerian patch. The last-named group is found only upon the anterior surface of the ileum opposite the attachment of the 'mesentery. (3.) The villi are distributed everywhere through- out the canal. As exceedingly minute processes they arise from the surface between the glands, commonly of a conical or clavate form, while in the duodenum they are somewhat lamelliform. They measure from one-fourth to one-third of a line in length. Each villus possesses a delicate lymphatic vessel, an artery, a vein and a nerve, as well as a delicate fasciculus of muscular fibres. The epithelium of the small intestine is columnar. Variations Billard^ reports a case of a male cliilcl that died three days after birth, in which it was found that the lower third of the duodenum ended in a cul-de-sac, with fluid contents. The small intestine beyond the occlusion was so small that it barely admitted a female catheter. Forster''' describes a somewiiat similar specimen involving tiie jejunum—For accounts of diverticuli of the small intes- tine, see p. 395. Eemarks and Eelations.—The Duodenum enter- tains important relations with the stomach, liver, pan- creas, transverse colon, jejunum, kidneys, supra-renal capsules, superior mesenteric artery, inferior vena cava, and aorta. Most of these relations are invariable, although those which pertain to the first portion of the duodenum are subject to greater changes than the others. It has been noticed, in describing the vari- ations in the position of the pyloric extremity of the stomach, that under some conditions it appeared to glide almost insensibly into the first portion of the duodenum. In this condition both structures are empty and deep-seated, and easy regurgitation of iugesta and bile may occur from the duodenum into the stomach, while gall-stones may be lodged in the latter organ.^ When the stomach and duodenum are moderately distended, the first portion of the latter lies obliquely in front. It is near to, if not in direct contact with, the liver or gall-bladder. It is in this position that adhesions occur in so large a proportion of the cases of gall-stone migration, with subsequent escape of the calculus into the duodenum.—It is the right w^all of > Traite des Malad. des Enfant, nouv.-uees, Paris, 1828, 348, fig. ' MissbiUlungen, Taf. xxiv. fig. 24. ' Jeaflfreson, Br. Med. Jouin., May 30. 18(38. 83 this portion which is frequently selected for ulcer- ation. Krause found that out of sixteen instances twelve were situated in the upper portion. The vertical or middle portion of the duodenum lies between the vertebral column, the kidney, and the colon. It holds a fixed position with respect to the pancreas and pancreatic duct. When the ascend- ing colon is distended, the vertical portion is thrown from the right to the left of the median line, moving altogether about two inches. It may lie directly to the right side of the first lumbar vertebra, or upon the twelfth dorsal vertebra, to the inner side of the 'inferior vena cava. The relations between the first and the second por- tions of the duodenum and the termination of the ascending and beginning of the transverse colon are held by W. H. Flower^ to have a significance referable to the primordial relations of the parts. It is evident that the duodenum may communicate with the colon by a fistulous orifice either at the first or second of its divisions. Sanderson^ has recorded a case of the kind which occurred in a male, aged 30 years. Death ensued after an illness of two weeks. At the autopsy it was found that, at a distance of nine lines from the pylo- rus, the duodenum communicated by a wide aperture with a pouch about as large as a turkey's egg. By its posterior wall the pouch Avas very firmly adherent to the head of the pancreas, in front of which it lay. Below, the wall was inseparably blended with that of the transverse colon into which it opened by a valvu- lar aperture large enough to allow of the passage of a swan's quill. The lower portion of the duodenum is more fixed than any other portion of the intestine. This is chiefly owing to the relation entertained by it with the superior mesenteric artery, which passes over and in front of the duodenum. It is, moreover, fixed by the root of the mesocolon in front and by the pancreas above. In that rare diseased condition, aneurism of the superior mesenteric artery, the sac has been known to burst into the duodenum twenty- two months before death, thereby causing repeated attacks of hiematemesis.^ In two other cases, reported by J. A. Wilson,* pressure of the aneurismal sac had interfered with the flow of bile and induced jaundice. The duodenum has been known to be ruptured by 1 Med. Times and Gaz., March, 1872, 291. 2 Tr. Path. Soc. Lond., 1865, xiv. 173. 3 ftairdner, Clin. Med., 1862, 504, ■* Medico-Chir. Trans., xxiv. 221.