638 ORGANS OF SENSE. ooO^O^>-5 ■ ternaturally enlarged uvula between liis teeth and bit it off, thus effecting a cure Among the variations of the soft palate maybe appropriately included "cleft palate." For a consideration of this defect, see Teratology The structures of the soft palate are frequently asymmetrical, not, however, so frequently from congenital structural causes as from irregu- lar actions of muscles, and from inflammatory invasion. Remarks.—The clinical applications of a knowledge of the structure and uses of the soft palate are nume- rous. The soft palate is liable to syphilitic ulcera- tions. The ulcerated patches are often seen ujjon the posterior surface, where they exhibit a tendency to perforate the entire palate-structures. The ulcerated area is always larger posteriorly than anteriorly. The act of elevation of the palate brings the ulcer in contact with the posterior wall of the pharynx, and induces inflammation and ulceration of that portion of the pharynx with resultant stricture or atresia of the naso-pjharyngeal orifice.^ Fibrous tumor of the soft palate is of infrequent occurrence. Mr. Kelbourne King^ has described a case observed in a man twenty-eight years of age. The tumor had been growing for three months. It was situated on the left side, and entirely filled the oro-pharyngeal orifice. It projected upward into the naso-pharynx and thence into the nasal chamber. The growth was excised, but the patient died on the sixth day. Hypertrophy of the glands of the soft palate is a slow process, and a period of from five to fourteen years is usually requisite for the development of a mass sufficient to obstruct the oro-pharynx. 1'he mass may be contained in a separate compartment distinctly limited, spheroidal, and only very slightly connected with the adjacent parts, so that, when its capsule is excised, it may be easily enucleated with the finger. Carcinoma of the soft palate is always medullary. It may begin somewhat after the same method adopted by the lingual cancer, viz., in first infiltrating the sub-epithelial cells. In a case, narrated by B'.rkett,' a so-called polypus of the parts, in a man aged thirty-four, was excised, when cancerous infiltration ensued, and death fol- lowed nine months after the first appearance of the growth. W. A. Love* has invited attention to the import- ' For cases with dissection, see W. Turner, Edin. Med. Journal, 1860, Iv., 612. 2 Lancet, 1871, 264. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1S60, xL, 233. ^ Trans. Med. Assoc. Georgia, 1878. ance of inspecting the anterior surface of the hard and soft palate in the early stages of biliary catarrh. The icteric color appears in these localities earlier than in any other portion of the body. W. H. Broadbent' has described two cases of paral- ysis of the soft palate in children, accompanied by re- gurgitation of fluids through the nose in attempts at dea:lutition. The tone of the voice was nasal and the articulation of sounds imperfect. The soft palate was seen to be pale, flabby, and motionless. The palato glossal fold. This fold often spreads out over the tonsil wheri the latter is engorged, or aids in defining a pocket between itself and the tonsil. A curved probe introduced into this pocket, and made to draw the fold forward, enables the observer to inspect it. It will often be found to contain pel- lets of tonsillar secretion. In some recognizable states of the tonsil, in which the pellets are too fre- quently formed, the breath becomes offensive. Under these circumstances the author has with benefit ob- literated the fold by excision. The 'palato-fharyrKjeal fold. In inflammatory in- filtrations the pharynx often presents'swellings along the borders of these folds, which may be mistaken for engorged tonsils. In facial palsy involving the soft palate, the flaccid structure prevents efficient separation of the naso- pharynx from the oro-pharynx, so that food enters the nose during deglutition. The uvula is convex at its base behind, and has thus a tendency to dispose the mucus descending from the nose to the lateral walls of the pharynx. An excessive flow of mucus is not confined to these normal conduits, but pours over the upper surface of the uvula. The uvula may be elongated, and excite cough by its intrusion within the laryngo-pharynx. Tlie mechanism of tiie soft palate has been carefully studied by examination of the living parts. This has been accomplished by inspection from below by the rhinal mirror in the normal subject, and by direct examination in cases of destructive ulcei'ation of the soft palate from above f also by J. Hilton^ and Schuh,* through abnormal openings in the face, and by the aid of small mirrors inserted through the nasal chambers by Zaufal.^ Remarks.—The space between the pharynx and the vertebrse may be invaded by the products of dis- ' Trans. Clin. Soc. Lend., 1871, 92. ^ Cleland, Ibid. 3 Guy's Hosp. Rep., i. 1836, 504. " Wiener, Med. Wochenschr., 1858, No. 3; see in Med. Times and Gaz., xix. 1859, 357. 6 Archiv fiir Ohrenlieilkunde, x. 1875, 133; see, also, a paper by the author in Trans. Col. of Pliyaicians of Phila. 1884.