MUCOUS MEMBRANES OF THE BODY. o-OO^OCx 623 (b) The nasal chamher as divided irdo a nasal chamber and vestibule. The distinction between the nasal chamber and the vestibule is, in the main, based upon the absence of erectile tissue in the vestibule, and upon the presence of a membrane (muco-peri- osteum) intermediate in character between skin and mucous membrane. Diseases of the vestibule are best treated as though they were affections of the skin; while diseases of the nasal chamber are to be treated on the same principles as those of the mucous membranes generally, especially of that variety of mucous membrane lying in contact with bone. (c) 2'he riasal chamber as divided into the j)'>'emax- illary^ the maxillary, and palatal portions. This method of dividing the nasal chamber is convenient for clinical topography of the nose. The positions of the sutural lines of the premaxilla (see p. 134), of the maxilla, and of the palatal bones determine the points at which the boundaries of the regions may be said to be fixed. These subdivisions of the nasal chamber are effected by the production of the planes of the sutures on the roof of the mouth, vertically upward through the nasal chambers. {d) The nasal chambers as divided into the septum and the turbinated bones. The morphological signifi- cance of the septum, placed as it is in the median line of the face of the embryo, with the turbinated bones lodged to its right and left sides, remains the same in the skull of the adult, notwithstanding the fact that, with cultivated races at least, the septum is deflected the greater part of its course from the median line; with this deflection ensues acquired asymmetry of the nasal chambers. One of these chambers, commonly the left, is much smaller than its fellow of the opposite side, and may be occluded, when the right chamber will be larger than is nor- mal and possess both osseous and erectile structures which have undergone physiological hypertrophy. Care should be taken to distinguish between such hypertrophy and the effects of diseased action. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANES OF THE BODY.' The Mucous Membranes possess in common a cushiony, succulent, yielding surface, covered with a thick, glairy fluid termed mucus, which is secreted in great abundance by the mucous follicles, and with • These remarks are applicable to all portions of the alimentary, the respiratory, and the genito-urinary tract, and their considera- tion Will be conveniently undertaken at this place as an introduc- tion to tlie anatomy of the splanchnic organs. numerous special fluids, such as the salivary, gastric, biliary, and intestinal fluids. Mucous membranes are in structure closely allied to the general integument. They are composed of an epithelial covering, which usually rests upon a delicate basement membrane; these two layers form- ing the covering of the matrix, which is composed of fibrous connective tissue with an admixture of elastic fibres. In contradistinction to the external integu- ment or skin, it may be looked upon as the internal integument. The epithelial layer, owing to the con- stant moisture maintained upon it, never assumes the horny character of the corresponding layer of the skin, and is more or less translucent. Blood- vessels are often visible on a mucous surface, and, together with rich supplies of capillaries, give it its characteristic color. The exact color of mucous membrane varies with the amount of blood held within it. Thus it is pink- ish or reddish in the mouth and in the nose, and, owing to the presence of numbers of minute super- ficial veins, dusky in the pharynx and the oesopha- gus. When the glandular layer is well developed, the color is yellowish-pink, as upon the anterior sur- face of the soft palate, or of a light pink shade where the epithelium is thick, as upon the buccal surfaces. The anterior portion of the tongue, covered as it is with filiform papillae, yields various colors which are consistent with health, and a still greater variety of tints in disease, in which it forms an index both of the retarded and increased epithelial desquamation in the digestive tract. The prevalent color is dull red with a shade of milkiness. When the mucous membrane is in contact with cartilage, as in the ori- fice of the Eustachian tube and on the vocal cords, the color is pearl-like. Within the stomach, as well as in the intestine, the color is of a grayer cast. The color of the rectum resembles that of the pharynx. After death these tints disappear from the mucous membrane, and a dull slate or gray tint predominates. The color of the mucous membrane of the stomach undergoes the greatest degree of change, owing to the action of the gastric juice. The mucous membrane is exceedingly loose.and pliable at the side and beneath the tongue, and on the floor of the mouth as it passes from the tongue to the gum line of the lower jaw. It is also very lightly applied to adjacent parts between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, and thence to the sides of the pharynx. In the oesophagus, the stomach, and the intestine, the mucous m.embrane is so loosely attached to the submucous coat, that it is capable of