THE PENIS. =.00§|00.c 70^ resulting from cutting through, the plexus in the ope- ration of lithotomy is slight. Secondary hemorrhage may be, however, alarming in amount in patients of middle age—the veins emitting an enormous quantity of blood. Variations.—Tlie ])ro.state is rudimentary in instances of unusual development of the masculine uterus. (See Teratology.) Remarks.—The prostate gland is cut through in the perineal operation for lithotomy. The organ is susceptible of a peculiar hypertrophy which is an- nounced about the forty-fifth year.—Tubercular and gonorrhoeal abscesses are not infrequent. THE PENIS. The Penis (figs. 3, 4, Plate CVIII.) is the organ of copulation. It is an erectile, symmetrical structure, and accommodates that portion of the urethra which lies in advance of the membranous portion. In the undissected subject, the part which lies in advance of the scrotum and is covered with integument is known as the pendulous portion. The deep portion of the penis (root, sub-pubic portion) lies in the sub-pubic space.— The skin-covering of the pendulous portion is remark- able for its thinness, for the absence of subcutaneous fat, and for the loose attachments to adjacent structures. The integument serves to cover in the anterior ex- tremity, or glans penis, by a cap-like duplicature (pre- puce), the outer surface of which is cutaneous, the inner (where it is applied to the glans) muco-dermic. The layer last named is held firmly to the body of the penis at a point of constriction (neck of the penis), ■which is found directly behind the glans, whence it is traceable over the glans to the urethra, with the mucous membrane of which it is continuous. When erected the penis is subcylindrical in form. —The pendulous and deep portions are composed of three distinct structures, namely, a pair of cavernous bodies {corpora cavernosa) and a median spongy body (corpus spongiosum). Each Cavernous Body arises from the inner lip of the descending ramus of the pubis, and a portion of the ascending ramus of the ischium passes forward toward the median line to unite with its fellow of the opposite side at about the level of the top of the sub- pubic arch. Each body is fusiform, though the por- tion between its origin and union with its fellow is somewhat swollen and constitutes the crus. After the union of the crura these bodies, together with the corresponding portion of the spongy body, com- pose the hody or shaft of the penis. Both cavernous bodies are abruptly acuminate at the anterior free end, and are received within the posterior concave surface of the glans. The cavernous bodies, as conjoined, present a faint groove above for the dorsal vein, and beneath a wider groove for the spongy body. Surrounding the cav- ernous bodies is a dense sheath composed of fibrous tissue intermingled with elastic filaments. The greater portion of the sheath is composed of a layer of longitudinal filaments which surround the cavernous bodies. Beneath this is a second layer, com- posed of circular filaments. The septum is a parti- tion of similar filaments well developed posteriorly, but presents the appearance of an irregular open net- work (septum pectiniforme) anteriorly. From the septum numerous fibrous bands (trabeculse) extend outward, which intersect among themselves, and which define a number of spaces lined with squamous endothelium, constituting the erectile tissue of the cavernous bodies. A number of delicate nerves and unstriated muscle-fibres lie along the trabeculse. The intervening network is occupied by the terminal twigs of vessels and capillaries. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the cavernous body are derived from the internal pudic,—each cavernous body receiving in addition deep branches from the dorsal artery of the penis. The branches and more superficial twigs terminate in delicate spiral arterioles from the extremities of which the capillaries take their origin. These arterioles have received the name of the helicine arteries of J. iMiiller. The vei7is of the cavernous bodies are tributary to the pudendal plexus and to the internal pudic vein. Nerves.—The nerves form a plexus within the cav- ernous bodies, and are derived from the hypogastric plexus. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics join the hypogastric lymphatic glands. The Spongy Body is a modified cylindrical figure lying at first in the space between the converging crura of the cavernous bodies, and beyond this point in the groove beneath these conjoined structures. At the extremity of the penis it terminates abruptly in an expanded extremity, the glans penis, to receive the ends of the cavernous bodies. The glans penis is obliquely truncated from below upward and back- ward, and ends in a thickened rounded edge—the corona glandis. The spongy body is swollen behind to constitute the Indb which is in contact with the triangular liga- ment. The spongy body surrounded by the Bulbo-