736 SUPERFICIAL AND T 0 P 0 G R A P H IC A L ANATOMY. -OOO^CxXi- — tends to tlie median border of theQuadratusLumborum and to an imaginary line drawn upward from the pro- cess which answers to the posterior border of the anterior dorsal concavity of the innominate bone. The right and left portions are so united in the me- dian line that it is exceptional for a morbid involve- ment of one side of the abdominal wall to pass over to the parts of the opposite side.—-The walls are pierced obliquely at the lower boundary by the inguinal canals, and in the foetus by the umbilical cord. The anterior abdominal wall is divided arbitrarily into nine regions, as follows:— / The Epigastric, Upper Belt A The Right Hypochondriac, ( The Left Hypochondriac. ! The Umbilical, M ddle Belt] The Right Lumbar, ( The Left Lumbar. / The Hypogastric, Lower Belt-| The Right Inguinal, ( The Left Inguinal. The Epigastric and Hypochondriac regions form a natural division of the anterior abdominal parietes, inasmuch as they aid in inclosing that portion of the abdomen which is controlled by the form of the thorax. The skin of the chest passes without fold or crease into the belt just outlined, receives nerves from the same sources as the lower portion of the chest-walls, and protects organs which at the same time secure additional protection from the lower ribs, the sides of the Diaphragm alone intervening. All its organs tend to ascend in expiration and descend in inspiration, and in morbid conditions can in many instances be determined by palpation and pressure of the lower chest walls as well as of the walls of the abdomen. This portion of the abdomen is sometimes called epigastric, although later custom has restricted this term to the middle part only. The upper boundary of the upper belt is the Dia- jihrngm; the lower boundary is an imaginary line drawn between the anterior extremities of the tenth ribs. The cartilage of the tenth rib forms ordinarily a distinct projection. A horizontal plane carried backward from the line will pass between the bodies of the first and second lumbar vertebree, and emerge posteriorly at the lower edge of the spinous process of the vertebra first named. The upper boundary of the upper belt, being formed by the Diaphragm, varies in its position at each eflbrt of respiration. Anteriorly, it corresponds with the junction of the xyphoid cartilage with the sternum; but from this point it will be found to descend from before backward toward the spine, and on either side toward the ribs, until it reaches the lower boundary of the belt. The Epigastric Region (scorbiculis cordis, prsecor- dium). This region is broader below than above, and contains the whole of the left lobe of the liver and a part of the right, together with part of the gall- bladder, the ducts, hepatic vessels, Glisson's capsule, the pyloric end of the stomach with the commencement of the duodenum, a portion of the transverse colon, the pancreas, the abdominal aorta, and the coeliac axis, with the inferior cava and superior mesenteric artery. The Right Hypochondriac Region. This region contains nearly the whole of the right lobe of the liver, the hepatic flexure of the colon, and a small portion of the right kidney with the corresponding supra-renal capsule. The Left Hypochondriac Region. This region con- tains the rounded cardiac portion of the stomach at all times; but a very large part of that organ when distended, the splenic flexure of the colon, the spleen, and a small portion of the left kidney with the supra- renal capsule. The right hypochondriac, the epigastric, and the left hypochondriac regions are in a measure separated from the remainder of the abdomen by the transverse mesocolon. In many clinical studies such tendencies are found emphasized by the presence of bands of peritoneal adhesions. In this, the upper portion of the abdomen, are suspended the most numerous and bulky of the abdc^ninal viscera. Diseased action is frequently herein localized, not only in the interior of the several organs, but in their interspaces as well, as between them and the abdominal walls or the in- testines. C. Hilton Fagge has analyzed a number of cases of abscess exhibiting such localization, and finds the cases susceptible of division into two groups: (1) those in which an abscess is situated in the right hypochon- drium, lying between the liver and the Diaphragm; and (2) those in which the affected region is the left hypochondrium, pus having formed in a cavity bounded by the spleen, the stomach, and the Dia- phragm. These cases have a tendency to terminate fatally by involving the pleura by direct transmission of the inflammatory process, or by rupturing the Diaphragm and creating a secondary empyema. In one instance of an abscess, which was apparently a sequel to cancerous involvement of the gastric py- lorus, the pus had accumulated in a space in advance of the liver, below the Diaphragm, and behind the anterior abdominal wall. It was prevented from gra-