673 TEE PANCREAS. pancreatic duct has been the cause of much discussion. The following arrangement of parts may be considered the average one: Both the pancreatic duct and the common bile-duct joining at an acute angle present their terminal orifices within a little chamber or cloaca (ampulla of Vater), lined with mucous membrane, and terminated by a teat-like contraction within tlie duo- denum. In its absence, which is unusual, the pan- creatic duct empties into the duodenum, while the common bile-duct finds a separate outlet by its side. An accessory duct (duct of Santorini, azygos canal) from the lower portion of the head of the gland often opens by a separate opening into the duodenum. It anastomoses with tlie main duct so that a stream of water tlirown into the main duct from the duodenum will in part escape by the mouth of the accessory duct. Relations Tlie pancreas, like u salivary gland, adapts itself to the inequalities of the region it occupies. The ver- tical i)ortion, as already noted, is fixed to the nearly im- movable middle third of" the duodenum, where it is in close relation to the mesentery. The horizontal portion of the organ is more movable, and is said to "float." Owing to the disposition of the splenic vein, this portion follows to a slight degree the motions of the spleen, the stomach, and the Diaphragm. The tail thus tends to lie a little above the horizontal line, and the " head" a little below. Tlie entire organ is slightly arched, the convexity being directed in front. The pancreas lies opposite to tlie twelfth dorsal vertebra, although it may be found as low down as the second lumbar, or as high up as the eleventh dorsal. In emaciated indivi- duals the pancreas can be readily outlined by palpation, and care should be taken not to confound the healthy organs thus determined with abdominal tumor.' The posterior wall of the omental sac alone intervenes between the pancreas and the anterior abdominal wall when the stomach is depressed, as in prolonged fasting. In repletion the stomacli lies directly in front of the organ. Behind it are tlie aorta, pillars of the Diaphragm, thoracic duct, vertebral column, kidneys, and the supra-renal capsules. The lobus Spigelii and the inferior vena cava lie behind the head. As already seen, the middle jjortion of the duodenum lies to the right side, and the spleen to the left. The horizontal portion is grooved above by the splenic vein, and posteriorly from below upward by the portal | vein and the superior mesenteric artery. A. Cooper^ found, after the ligation of the thoracic duct in dogs, that the pancreas was forced forward. It is prob- able that a similar change in position may ensue in the human subject after obstruction in the abdominal portion of the thoracic duct. 1 Med. Times and Gaz., 1869, Jan. 16. 2 Med. Rec. and Repositor, 1798, 86. 86 Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the pancreas are nu- merous minute branches derived from the splenic, as well as from the superior pancreato-duodenal, the inferior pancreato-duodenal, and the superior mesen- teric arteries. The gland is grooved posteriorly by the superior mesenteric artery ; the artery may per- forate the gland structure much after the plan by which the internal maxillary artery ])erforates the parotid gland. The venous hlood returns by the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. In enlarged condi- tions of the pancreas both the arteries and the veins may be compressed. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the branches of the coeliac axis. Lymphatics.—-The lymphatics terminate in the lum- bar vessels and glands. Variations The horizontal portion may be sigmoid in- stead of straight. The vertical portion is bulkier in the adult than in the young individual, and embraces to a greater degree the duodenum. The splenic vein may infrequently follow the inferior border of the horizontal portion instead of the superior. The groove for the mesenteric vessels may be converted into a canal The head of tlie gland is often separated from the body by a deep fissure. In the instances in which the pancreas is completely divided at this point the head has received the name of the lesser pancreas. Under these conditions a distinct duct is seen ascending and com- monly joining the main duct near its termination.—The common bile-duct lies either within a complete canal of pan- creatic tissue, or at least in a deep notch in the posterior part of the head of the pancreas.' Remarks.—The clinical study of the pancreas em- braces the relations borne by the gland to the other organs of the epigastric and hvpochondriac regions and to the peritoneum. At the risk of repeating the relations above cited, it may here be said that the pan- creas from its position across the abdomen involves by its right extremity the liver, and is in clinical relation with the ascending portion of the duodenum; by its middle portion with the superior mesenteric artery and vein, and the greater part of the stomach, the aorta, and the thoracic duct; and by its left portion with the spleen. The peritoneum is more intimately associated with the pancreas at its right extremity than with either the left extremity or with the middle portion. The relations of the pancreas can be recalled to advantage in studying many of its morbid states. A 1 A. Verneuil, Comptes Rendus des Stances et Mem. de la See. de Biologie, 1852, iii. 136.