THE MAMMJS. 726 =x:>0§§00<: drawn round the chest through the nipple crosses the sixth intercostal space midway between the sternum and the spine. Scattered over the areola are from five to ten minute wart-like growths, the papilla?; these represent the terminal points of minute glands, which, from their resemblance to tlie mammffi, are called the accessory lacteal glands. They present an average diameter of one line. They are not to be confounded with the sebaceous glands which exist here as upon other portions of the general skin surface, and open between the papillae; but they have especial significance here, since they lubricate tlie nipples during the act of sucking, and tlius prevent excoriation of ti)e delicate skin of the nipple which would in their absence occur. Measurements.^—-The mammary gland measures from three-and-a-half to four-and-a-half inches in diameter, and from one-and-a-half to five inches in thickness. Upon its removal the gland is observed to have a slightly concave base, which rests upon the Great Pectoral muscle, and in a well-developed condition even encroaches upon the Serratus Magnus muscle. It is surrounded by abundant connective tissue and fat. The former is of importance in retaining the gland in position, and is especially well developed at the upper portion, where it has received from A. Cooper the name of the suspensory ligament of the breast. Beneath the mamma lies a bursa (sub-mammary bursa) which enables the gland to be freely moved upon the wall of the chest. To demonstrate the bursa an incision can be made which bisects the gland. The outer (lateral) half of the gland can then be tiirned outward toward the axilla, and the bursa is exposed. The sub-mammary connective tissue following the strain of successive periods of lactation becomes relaxed, when the mammae hang, udder-like, upon the thorax. This condition is especially well developed in women in savagery—the gland at no time receiving artificial support. In some African tribes it has been asserted that the breast may be slung over the shoulder in suckling the child, which is strapped to the back. Structure.—A section of the mamma exhibits a whitish- yellow parenchyma, streaked here and there with a pinkish color. It is composed of from twelve to fifteen lobules which converge and terminate by as many orifices at the nipple.^ The lobules widen toward tlie periphery, and are composed of vesicular terminations {acini), closely resem- bling the plan of structure of the racemose glands of the mucous membrane. These have received the name of the lactiferous ducts (galactophorous ducts). As they are ' LuBclika gives from twelve to fifteen lobules ; Quain fifteen to twenty. about to terminate in the nipple, each forms a fusiform expansion (ampulla), and witliin the nipple becomes much contracted. The diameter of a duct is one-twenty-fourth of a line, that of an ampulla from two to four-and-a-half lines, and that of the termination of a duct in the nipple one- twelfth of a line. The ducts contain abundant elastic tissue in the walls, but no muscular fibre. Tlie cells in the vesicles are rounded or sub-angulated; the epithelial cells of the ducts are short, and columnar. Tlie nipple contains unstriated muscular fibres, which are arranged in intersecting circular bundles. A few straight fasciculi pass from witiiout inward. Since in lactation the milk is being constantly secreted, it tends to flow forward from the vesicles. But, unlike the racemose glands elsewhere, the orifices of the ducts,*in addi- tion to being much narrowed, are actually closed by muscu- lar contraction. The milk is thus retained in the ducts, more especially in the region of the ampullje, until the infant, being placed at the breast, elongates and relaxes the con- stricting fibres (aided by the vacuum created by the act of sucking), and causes the milk to flow. Bloodvessels.—The arteries supplying the gland are branches of the long thoracic, the acrqrnial thoracic, the internal mammary, and the intercostal arteries. The veins belong to the superficial cutaneous veins. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics are large and nume- rous. They terminate for the most part in the axilla, although some join the glands in the mediastinum. Nerves.—The nerves for the skin are derived from the supra-clavicular, and the external branches of the intercostals from the second to the sixth, as well as branches derived from the brachial plexus. The parenchyma is supplied by the fourth to the sixth intercostal nerves. According to Luschka, Pacinian corpuscles are found upon the terminal twigs of the nerves about the nipple. Variation. — The mammae are subject to variation in numbers and position. Examples of such are, however, rare. Three supernumerary glands have been found asso- ciated with the normally situated mammce. Instances of single supernumerary glands liave been recorded, situated in the regions of the back, of the axilla, and of the thigh. In the latter instance the gland afforded an abundant secretion.' The mammae are not always symmetrical. The gland rarely possesses two nipples. The left gland, according to W. B. Woodman, more commonly exhibits this peculiarity, it being commonly the larger.^ At birth the mamniEe resemble 1 Lusclika's " Die Brust," 230, where reference is given to Rob- erts in Meckel's Path. Anat. der Brustdriise. lUustr. Mediz. Zeitung., Munich, 1852, 142. See, also, A. H. Cameron, Journ. of Anat. and Phys., 1879 ; Ibid., J. M. Bruce, 425. 2 Trans. Obstet. Soc. Lond., 1868, 51.