738 SUPERFICIAL AND TOP GRAPHICAL ANATOMY. lower convolution of the ileum, and, in the female, the uterus and its appendages. The transverse line extending across the abdomen between the anterior superior spinous processes of the innominate bones lies just above the supra-pnbic fat, and is probably determined by the position of the bladder which lies immediately behind it. This line determines the upper limit of a region which is some- times called siqvn-puLic. Within this region the high operation for lithotomy and the high puncture of the bladder are performed. Below the supra-pubic space is Xhe prevesical apace (space of Eetzius) which is defined in the triangular interval between the symphysis pubis, the bladder, and the peritoneum. It is occasionally the seat of abscess. J. E. Pilcher^ describes an intramural space, which lies between the Recti muscles and the transversalis fascia, as the svh-muscular sjyace, and as distinct from the pre-vesical space. It is occasionally the seat of abscess following strain of the Recti muscles. The Inguinal Regions are very limited. They comprise but a small extent of surface, and are liice- wise exceedingly shallow in consequ.ence of the ap- proximation which here takes place between the anterior and posterior abdominal walls previously to their union at Poupart's ligament. The Right Inguinal Region.—The right inguinal region sometimes contains the lowest part, or cul de- sac, of the caput coli, and tlie vermiform process and the iliac vessels. The walls of this region are liable to involvement from perityphlitis. The Left Inguinal Region.—-The left inguinal region contains a part of the sigmoid flexure and the iliac vessels of that side. " Assuming the foregoing as the regions into which the abdomen may be divided, it is evident that they will not correspond exactly with the extent and form of the different viscera; but that one division will often contain portions of several viscera, and one viscus will occupy portions of several divisions. Generally speaking, however, the position of the different organs will be as follows :— "The upper belt will contain in its whole length the liver with the gall-bladder, the stomach, the con- tents of Glisson's capsule, the two colic flexures and part of the transverse colon, the duodenum, the spleen, the pancreas, the renal capsules, and a portion of each kidney, together with the aorta, the cava, the coeliac axis, and the commencement of the superior mesente- r.'c artery. "The umbilical and hypogastric are each divided into three regions, by two ascending planes passing directly backward, and drawn through the spinous processes of the pubis and the points on the tenth ribs, already alluded to as marking the lower epigastric plane. These planes diverge from each other; and if continued over the chest, will pass rather to the out- side of the nipple in the male, until they reach the clavicle, not far from its acromial extremitv. "The umbilical subdivisions thus produced consist of a central region, which retains the name of um- bilical, and two lateral regions. These last may be again divided into the iliac fosfae below, corresponding with the venter of the ilium. THE LOINS. The Loins (lumbar region, "small of the back") is the large square region which answers to that por- tion of the back which lies between the crests of the innominate bones and the lower margin of the chest. With reference to the regions of the anterior abdomi- nal wall it answers above nearly to the middle belt. Clinical writers often restrict the term "lumbar region" to the " fossa3," one on each side of the lumbar vertebra;, and in this sense the right lumbar region and the left lumbar region can be defined.— The term himl.o-sacral sulcus is synonymous with the lumbar region as thus defined, and may be said to be that portion of the great spinal furrow or depression which extends along the entire region of the back on each side of the vertebral column and its associated muscles. The term triangle of Petit is often applied to a space defined laterally by the lateral border of the External Oblique muscld ; medianly, by the lateral border of the Latissimus Dorsi muscle; and inferiorly by the crest of the ilium. Tlie lumbar region is concave in the erect pos tion, and convex in forward flexion. The concavity is more pronounced in females than in males, and is excessive in coxalgia. The spinous eminences of the lumbar vertebrae can be readily felt beneath the skin of the loins, and when the body is erect lie in a shallow linear depression. The fourth .lumbar spine answers to a line drawn across the loins at the level of the crest of the innomi- nate bone. The chief localities of the lumbar region relate to the jiositions of the ascending colon, the descending ' Auuals of Aiiat. aud Surg., ix., 1882, 189. 1 R. Briglit, Guy's Hosp. l!ep. ii., 1837, 43G (lig.).