THE UTERUS. 719 2 Trans. Phil. Soc, 1850. ' The Surgical Anatomy of the Female Pelvic Floor, 24. » Barnes, p. 574, fig. 99. CXXO^OO-i At the point wliere the peritoneum is reflected from the neck of the uterus to the rectum and iliac fossa, a decided fold is seen containing connective tissue, fat, and bloodvessels. The contents of the fold communicates inferiorly with the pelvic connective tissue. The same connection is true of the anterior surface of the neck, which permits the creasing of its peritoneum in the anterior inclination of the body. Hence is explained the pronounced rim of indurated tissue which lies round the os uteri in some forms of pelvic cellulitis.' The Ligaments of the Uterus. The ligaments of the uterus include all those symmetrical folds of peritoneum and of fibrous tissue which extend from the uterus to adjacent structures. They are five in number, as follows:— The Broad Ligament. The Round Ligament. The Ovarian Ligament. The Utero Sacral Ligament. The Utero Vesical Ligament. The Broad Ligament extends from the sides of the uterus to the sides of the pelvis. It is composed of two folds of peritoneum continuous with those in- closing the uterus. It obscures the lateral jnargins, and is nearly on the same plane with the anterior surface of the body of the uterus, thus permitting the posterior surface to project backward. The upper border of the broad ligament receives the Fallopian tubes within, while below, it is reflected to enter into the floor of the pelvic cavity. The Round Liyaments arise from the fundus of the uterus, a little in front of and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ligament passes forward as a rounded cord to enter the internal abdominal ring through which it passes to be lost upon the structure of the abdominal wall near the symphysis pubis. This extraordinarv relation of a viscus thus holding structural relations to the superficies of the trunk is explained by Rainey,^ who traces within the round ligament fasciculi of striped muscular fibre which are derived from the abdominal muscles. The canal conducting the round ligament through the external abdominal ring is called the canal of Nuch. It is pervious, as a rule, only in the young. The Ovarian Liijaments are two rounded fibrous cords containing muscle, which extend from the ute- rus to the ovary. The Utero-Sacral Ligaments are two folds of peri- toneum extending from the postefo-lateral border ot the uterus at the begitming of the neck to the sacrum. They define the pouch of Douglas. In a normal con- dition, the walls of this sac are in apposition. Great importance is assigned by Pansch to these ligaments. He asserts that their traction is nearly vertically up- ward, and that they not only tend to tilt the uterus forward, but that they pull the posterior wall of the vagina upward, thus accounting for the post-cervical vaginal pouch. The Utero- Vesical Ligaments pass from the upper portion of the cervix of the uterus to the sym- physis pubis. They define laterally the utero-vesi- cal pouch, a shallow receptacle relatively of slight importance. The last two ligaments, by reason of the muscular tissue they contain, exercise more than a passive function in sus- taining the uterus in position. Malgaigne assigns special importance to the utero-sacral ligaments. According to this writer, decided falling of the uterus follows upon their divi- sion. Tiie pouch of Douglas is the most dependent of the pouclies formed by the ligaments. Hence collections of fluid in tlie abdominal cavity will gravitate to tliis pocket. Marion Sims has suggested puncture of this cul-de-sac from the vagina, in order to secure an efficient outlet for such fluids as accrue after operations upon the peritoneal cavity, and more especially after ovariotomy. When the relations of the uterus and ovaries and Fallopian tubes to the sac are remembered, it will be readily seen that blood escaping from these organs will collect in the pouch. Barnes thus assigns pelvic haematocele to it, and believes that blood appearing within the utero-vesical pouch would soon pass thence to the larger posterior pouch of Douglas. Relations The relations of the uterus are complex by reason of the extreme mobility of the organ, and its changes in size and form in gestation. The following present the leading features of these i-elations :— (1) As a primary fact, it may be stated that the uterus is composed of two portions—the body and the neck, which are in some degree physiologically distinct and have separate relations. The body is held in position by the broad liga- ments (associated with a few muscular fasciculi distributed therein) and the uterine bloodvessels. Tiie cervix is held in position by the posterior wall of tlie bladder and the utero- sacral and utero-vesical ligaments The body of the uterus is suspended; the cervix is in part only sus{)ended (namely, at the point of vesical contact and by the antero-posterior ligaments), and is in great part supported by the vagina— The entire uterus, according to D. Berry Hart,' is su|)ported by the structures of the pelvic floor rather than by tiie so-