697 THE KIDNEYS. ^ pus of a thoracic abscess may penetrate the abdo- men. In bke manner the bhjod escaping from a rup- tured aneurism of the abdominal aorta may involve the posterior mediastinum. Ordinarily, the position of the bifurcation of the trachea limits the ascent or descent of fluid. Thus, a clot from the abdomen will reach to the line of tracheal bifurcation from below, Avhile one from the neck, or upper part of the medi- astinal space, will reach it from above. Mr. Bristowe' has described an aneurism of the abdominal aorta, just above the coeliac axis, which in bursting caused blood to pass into the posterior medi- astinum. The clot was confined to the lower half of the space. Abscesses dependent upon caries of the vertebrae are found along the outer portions of the mediasti- num, and the sheath-like connective tissue surround- ing the region of the intercostal arteries and veins. The middle mediastinum answers to the space con- taining the pericardium and its contents. The space between the two pleural sacs contains the heart, the great arterial trunks at their origin, and the ter- minal portions of the great veins. The space is widest at its middle third, and abruptly diminishes in size above the heart. The anterior mediastinum, as defined by English authors, is the interval between the sternum and the jjericardium. All of the sub-rnanubrial connective tissue may without error be included in it according to continental writers, who speak of the anterior mediastinum as the space containing the connective tissue lying beneath the entire length of the sternum. It follows the inclination of the heart, being inclined from right to left. It is broader below than above. It is narrowest opposite the upper portion of the gladiolus, where, indeed, the two pleura3 may touch. The anterior mediastinum contains, in addition to the connective tissue already mentioned, a small quan- tity of fat at its lower portion, the thymus gland in the infant and its remains in the adult, and the origin of the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid muscles as well as of the Triangularis Sterni and of the left in- ternal mammary artery. Eemarks.—The clinical study of the mediastinum embraces for the most part the anterior and the pos- terior portions. The anterior portion is a common site for development of sarcomatous tumors, and the posterior portion for cancerous tumors.^ The poste- rior portion again, from the circumstance that it is 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., x. 88. 2 E. T. Bruen, PLila. Mud. Times, 1884. 89 in communication with the retroperitoneal space by the connective tissue and with the aortic and ceso- phageal orifices, may become involved secondarily by many diseased processes which have their origin in the lower portion of the trunk. The pus from a peri-nephritic abscess may thus pass upward into the posterior mediastinum.—The abdominal portions of the oesophagus, of the aorta, and of the thoracic duct may be the sites of the initial processes of disease which involve the thoracic portions secondarily. The Genito-Urinaky Organ^s. The Genito-Urinary Organs embrace The Kidney. The Bladder. The Male Organs of Generation. The Female Organs of Generation. THE KIDNEYS. The Kidneys are the principal organs of excre- tion. They are two flattened, elongated, bean-shaped bodies situated in the lumbar regions, in front of the last two dorsal and first two lumbar vertebrae, the right kidney being a little lower than the left, owing to the position of the liver. The average length of each kidney is about four-and-a-half inches, its width two inches, and its thickness one-and- a-quarter inch. Its weight is from four to six ounces. The kidney is supplied by the renal artery, which enters the gland at a notch upon its inner side, where also, occupying a position behind the ves- sels, the ureter escapes. This notch has received the name of the hilum. Its posterior lip is less pro- nounced than the anterior, thus permitting the ureter to be exposed behind for a greater distance than in front. Extending from the hilum within the kidney are a chamber termed the sinus, containing some fat, and the subdivisions of the structures at the hilum. The anterior surface of the kidney is more convex than the posterior, and the lower extremity is slightly thicker and broader than the upper. The kidneys are not in the plane of a vertical section made from side to side, but are inclined to that plane in such wise that the outer margin of each is posterior, and the inner margin is anterior. Neither are they par- allel to the vertebral column, since their upper extrem- ities are slightly inclined toward each other. A longitudinal section of the kidney exhibits a cortical and a medullary portion. The cortical is of a darker color than the medullary portion; both por-