THE NASAL CHAMBERS. • ^xIXl^OOO —• 621 elevating the tip of the nose. The superior oritice of the vestibule is a mere chink, and, in consequence, affords little or no aid in the introduction of instru- ments into the nasal chamber for the removal of morbid growths. The inferior oriiice (the nostril) is an ellipse, whose internal border is nearly straight, and whose external border describes a curve with the posterior extremity, as a rule, more rounded than the anterior. Both outer and inner aspects of the vestibule near the nostril, as well as the pocket at the tip, are furnished with stiff hairs in patches. Looking at the nostril by the aid of a strong light, when the head is thrown back, one sees the following points: 1st, a darkish chink, far within which is the posterior oritice of the vestibule; 2d, on the outer side, the ridge formed by the inferior border of the upper lateral cartilage; Sd, on the same side, a ridge formed by the outer limb of the lower lateral cartilage. At a point answering to the posterior border of the outer arm of the lower lateral cartilage, a volun- tary contraction is made possible by the tilting of this border inward toward the septum, at the same time that the wing of the nose is depressed and abducted. Most persons can also occlude one nostril at a time by adducting the ala. This action, incomplete in man, is pronounced in many quadrupeds, in which we may presume occlusion of the vestibules may be announced by the powerful adduction of the car- tilages of the wing directly to the septal cartilage. The nasal chambers are lined with mucous mem- brane which is thin, and resembles periosteum over the nasal bones, the ascending processes of the supe- rior maxilla, the nasal cartilages, the floor of the nose, and the sinuses; but is erectile over the inferior turbinated bones, and the lower free border of the middle turbinated bones. The nasal chambers may be considered as the re- pository of the olfactory organs, and as parts of the respiratory apparatus. The Olfactoky Organs. These are two in num- ber ; one for the left and one for the right nasal cham- ber. The left olfactory organ is composed of a special membrane which covers the median aspect of the left lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, and the upper half of the left side of the septum. The organ also includes the roof of the left nasal chamber. The right olfactory organ is composed of a similar mem- brane, which covers the median aspect of the right lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, the upper half of the right side of the septum, and the roof of the right nasal chamber. The olfactory membrane is a modification of the mucous membrane of the interior of the nose. It is thick and soft as compared with the mucous mem- brane covering the nasal bones and the sinuses, but is not erectile. It is of a yellowish-brown color, and is rich in cellular elements, but in man at least not ciliated. Fig. 151. ' From a vertical section through the olfactory mucous membrane of the Guinea-pig. tt, the epithelial ceUs ; 6, the sensory or olfactory cells; c, the deep epithelial cells ; d, the bundles of olfactory nerve-fibres ; e, the alveoli of Bowman's glands. The accessory chambers to the nose include the frontal sinus and the maxillary sinuses. The nasal chamber also receives the lachrymo-nasal duct. The Eespiratory Apparatus. The respiratory portion of the nose may be roughly described as that portion which accommodates the air in its passage through the nose. The air in inspiration enters the nostril and passes into the pharynx at the poste- rior nares. In automatic breathing, the air passes scarcely at all in inspiration above the plane of the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, but an entrance into the region of olfaction, either between the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone and the nasal bone, or between the middle turbinated bone and the septum, may be held as possible. In expiration, the air entering each chamber at the posterior nares is carried along the floor of the nose, the middle meatus, and the space between the infe- rior turbinated bone and the septum. In many sub- jects the air also passes between the posterior end of the middle turbinated bone and the septum. The passage of the air in the nose differs in inspira- tion and expiration. In inspiration it possesses a