602 OEGANS OF SENSE. OOO^OOO with, not so much, however, as a result of advancing years as tlie effect, according to Garrod,' of gout. Tojnbee^ has seen similar deposits following athe- roma in the insane. A minute blunt point, variable in size and some- times present on the ear of one side only, projects from the anterior margin of the helix. The process is worthy of notice, since in the judgment of Dar- win' it is the homologue of the structure composing the upward pointed extremity of the auricle in quad- rupeds. Lucse* ascribes the process to the effects of intra-uterine inflammation and pressure. Variations.—-The variations in tlie form of the auricle are numerous. The lobe, while as a rule pendulous, with a free anterior border, may occasionally be found contluent with the lines of the face and neck. In questions of identity the examination of the auricle may prove of value, and in many instances the form is hereditary. According to Gruber, a congenital deformity of the auricle has been observed in many generations. The External Meatus (external auditory canal) (fig. 3, Plate XCVII.) extends from the auricle to the membrane of the tympanum. It is composed of two portions : the bony portion belonging to the pars tym- pianica of the temporal bone, and the cartilaginous portion belonging to the auricle. These two struc- tures, while apparently continuous, are separated by a small irregular membranous space. The direction of the meatus is sinuous, with an in- clination slightly downward and forward. The union of the cartilaginous with the bony portion is marked by a ridge on the floor of the passage. That portion to the inner side of the ridge is directed downward, forward, and inward. That to the outer side of the ridge is directed downward, forward, and outward. The latter obliquity is better marked than the former. The canal may be made straight by traction of the auricle backward and slightly upward. The entire length of the meatus ranges from nine to fifteen lines; of this, one-third the distance corre- sponds to the cartilage and two-thirds to the bone. The inclination of the antero-inferior surface of the wall, from the oblique position of the tympanic mem- brane, is downward and inward; the canal is widest at the junction of the cartilaginous and bony portions, the diameter ranging from two to five lines. The bony meatus is in indirect clinical relation to the temporo-maxillary articulation. Hence, fractures ■ Nature and Treatment of Gout, 1859. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., 1860, xi. 225. » Descent of Man, 1871, 22. Virchow's Archiv, xxix. 6, 2. of the skull from blows upon the front of the lower jaw may include the tympanic bone. (See p. 124.) The anterior part of the cartilaginous portion, being in relation with the parotid gland, may be involved by intumescence of that body. Relations The boundaries and relations of the bony portion of the external meatus are best understood by re- calling the fact that the anterior and inferior portions alone arise from the tympanic portion of the temporal bone, while the superior and posterior pertain to the squamous portion. Von Troltsch has shown that the cavity of the middle ear extends both above and behind the external meatus at its tympanic end, and that in some individuals the distance between the meatus and the dura mater is so sliglit tliat extension of inflammation from tiie meatus to the mem- branes of the brain is possible. At the entrance of the meatus the canal presents a sub- rounded opening, its shortest diameter being the antero- posterior. Within the canal is wider and slightly com- pressed from below upward. The floor is somewhat de;> pressed in front of the tympanic membrane, where, according to Von Troltsch, foreign bodies may become lodged. Structure The meatus is lined with thin integument. This is perforated by the orifices of numerous minute glands (ceruminous glands) which secrete a waxy substance. These glands are most numerous within the inner half of the cartilaginous portion of the canal, although a few can be traced as far as the membrane itself. They belong to the convolute type, and are lodged in the subdermic con- nective tissue. Some of them are sufficiently large to be received in corresponding depressions in the cartilage. Bloodvessels.—The arteries are derived from the posterior auricular branch of the facial, and from the deep auricular branch of the internal maxillary which supplies the tragus. Kemarks.-—In children the tympanic membrane is nearly horizontal.—Pus from the parotid gland may open into the meatus.—In aged edentulous individuals the condyle of the lower jaw may press against the cartilaginous portion of the meatus and induce deaf- ness.—Owing to the curved direction of the meatus, perforations of the tympanic membrane along the lower portion may escape notice. THE TYMPANIC MEMBRANE. The Tympanic Membrane (membrane of the drum) is a subrounded partition between the external meatus and the chamber of the tympanum. It is firmly lodged in the groove of the tympanic bone by the aid of a circle of fibrous tissues known as the avnulus te7idi7iosus. The tympanic membrane measures from four and a half to five lines in its longest or vertical diameter, and four in its shortest.