THE VAS DEFERENS. x>o^oo« 711 is somewhat prisraoidal, the anterior edge being the thinnest. The lower surface of the epididymis is either flat or slightly concave, while the upper sur- face is convex. It is covered by a membrane analo- gous to the tunica albuginea, but much thinner. Structure The testicle is composed of a soft parenchyma (pulp of the testicle), which is of a dull white or yellowish color. The parenchyma is composed of a number of lobules, which are variously estimated to be from two hundred to four hundred in number. According to Lauth, they may reach eight hundred and forty. The number of lobules varies in different individuals, and at times a large lobule is composed of two or three smaller ones. Each lobule is of an elongated conical figure, with the base outward and the apex inward. It is supported above and below by the tra- becular of the tunica albuginea. Each lobule is composed of ramifications of a system of delicate tubes known as the seminal tubules. Formerly it was supposed that the lobules were simple but highly convoluted follicles ; but it is now thought tliat tiiey more frequently terminate by anasto- mosis; some authors denying tiiat they ever end in blind extremities. The lobules are themselves united here and there by anastomotic tubules. The tubules found in a single lobule number from one to three, which finally terminate in a single straight duct. The series of the straight ducts con- stitute the vasa recta of Haller. They are about twenty in number; each possesses a diameter of one-sixtieth to one- seventieth of an inch upward and backward. They place the tunica albuginea toward the inner border of the testicle, and enter a close-meshed network of tubules, termed the rete testis (plexus retefbrmis). It is through the meshes of this network that the bloodvessels pass to and from the gland. The ducts leading from tiiis plexus are termed the vasa efferentia. These are from six to twenty in number, and measure from five to eight lines in length. They pass up- ward and backward, some becoming convoluted to terminate in the epididymis. The thick conical distal end of tlie con- voluted tubes has received the name of coni vasculosi. The minute anatomy of the tubules varies according to the locality. In the body of the testicle they are from to ■J of an inch in diameter, and are lined with layers of deli- cate but irregular epitiielium, which serves as a nidus for the development of spermatic filaments. A layer of flattened, thin cells is found in tlie rete, which is ciianged to a colum- nar epithelium in the vasa efferentia and epididymis, to become again flat at the lower part of the eiiididymis and throughout the vas deferens. The connective tissue of the testicle is delicate, but not abundant. In addition it is found that here and there are small aggregations of nucleated cells, limited by the sper- matic tubules or by connective tissue. The Hydatids of the Testicles are two small appen- dages of the organ, sometimes found in the neighbor- hood of the globus major of the epididymis. The first of these is called the hydatid of Morgayiii^ a small pear-shaped mass, which contains fluid at its large extremity, but is solid at its junction with the testicle. The second is smaller, and appended to the under surface of the epididymis. It has a more dis- tinct peduncle than the structure first named. Organ of Giraldes.—The Organ of (jiraldes (para- didymis) is in reality composed of two small bodies, the remains of a portion of the Wolffian body, which are lodged in front of the cord above the epididymis. They contain rudiments of tubular structures, ending in blind swollen extremities. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the testicle are de- rived from the spermatic artery. The artery of the vas deferens is derived from the inferior vesical. The veins are numerous, and follow the direction of the spermatic cord, and are received in the single spermatic vein, which, on the right side, empties into the vena cava, but on the left is commonly received in the corresponding renal vein. The lower part of the epididymis and the vas defer- ens return their blood through a small vein which finally empties into one of the tributaries to the epi- gastric veins. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the internal spermatic plexus and branches of the lumbar plexus. Lyviphatics.— The lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The descent of the testicle.—A columnar mass pushes inward and upward from the bottom of the scrotal sac, ascending along the vaginal process, which it in part embraces. Cleland has traced within this mass fiVjres of the External and Internal Oblique muscles, as well as slips of superficial fascia; proof is lack- ing that these fibres exert traction upon the testicle in the manner taught by Hunter. As the testicle descends within the vaginal process, the fibres of the gubernacular cord (as the columnar mass has been called) appear to be pushed aside while the cord itself is shortened; and by the time the testicle is received within the scrotum, the vaginal process is constricted at the neck from the abdominal portion, and is subsequently separated from the abdominal peritoneum to form the serous sac of the testicle. The pedicle of the gubernacular cord now disappears, and the descent is complete. THE VAS DEFERENS. The Vas Deferens is the name given to the canal which unites the epididymis with the ejaculatory duct. It is a cord-like canal, and is remarkable for possessing very thick walls. The vas deferens is