THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. OOO^CXX^ — 599 cacy of structure, and differs from the interior of the vitreous body by becoming markedly differentiated in front, at the region of the attachment above men- tioned. In the description of the termination of the hyaloid, it is usual to state that it divides opposite the ciliary body into two leaflets, one passing in front and the other behind the lens. But, while a con- tinuity can be proved to exist between the hyaloid and the capsule of the lens, these structures are so peculiar that they deserve definition for the same reason that the iris is described separately from the choroid. In this way the hyaloid may be said to terminate in the zone of Zinn, the structure of this portion of the capsule of the lens deflected inward from the beginning of the zone, differing scarcely at all from the general features of the vitreous body. The zone of Zinn is distinctly fibrillated in a radial manner, very stout, and somewhat elastic. It mea- sures three lines in diameter on the temporal side, and from two to three on the nasal. It is continuous in front with the suspensory ligament of the lens and the capsule. Some authors describe all tlie structures between tlie liya- loid membrane and the capsule as tlie zone of Zinn, which thus presents a posterior fixed portion at the ciliary region and an anterior free portion corresponding to the suspensory ligament. Structure The vitreous humor is composed of exquisitely delicate fibrils of a connective-tissue-like structure, liaving an arrangement as yet imperfectly understood. It is thought, however, that a radiate type of fasciculation can be detected extending from the periphery toward the centre, and surrounded by a clear, gelatinous fluid. That such a stroma is present can be shown by the fact that a film re- mains after filtering the fluid-contents, and that wounds of the vitreous body do not necessarily end in loss of all the fluid. An occasional free nucleus can be seen as well as wander- ing leucocytes exhibiting amceboid movements. The hyaloid membrane is richly supplied upon its inner surface with tessellated corpuscles which may be looked upon as aggre- gated leucocytes. In the foetal state the vitreous body is perforated by the central artery of the retina. The canal of Stilling is a passage the existence of which was for a long time in dispute. It is now, however, asserted b}' Schwalbe that a coloring matter can be injected through it by way of the pia mater sheath of the optic nerve. Remarks.—The vitreovis humor can repair injuries to itself and losses of volume to a remarkable degree. The loss of small amounts of the vitreous humor is a frequent occurrence in the operation for cataract.—- The chamber of the vitreous may be the seat of for- mations of cholesteriue crystals and of connective- tissue growths. Some varieties of rmiscse volitantes are due to flakes of connective-tissue growths being tossed about in the chamber of the vitreous by the motions of the eyeballs. The vitreous humor may receive and encapsule minute fore'gn bodies. Its nutrition is dependent entirelv upon the vessels of the choroid membrane, and, as a result, many if not all of its inflammatory conditions are accessories to primal states of the choroid membrane. The canal of Petit. Between the suspensory ligament (zone of Zinn), the posterior capsule, and the lens is a delta-shaped space called the canal of Petit. Its walls are opposed during life, but can be inflated witli air in dissection or in decomposition,^ when a beaded appearance due to the lumen of the canal being narrower at short intervals is pre- sented. The tips of the ciliary processes lie free in the posterior chamber of the eye, over which passes a delicate structureless membrane which reaches to the ciliary border of the iris. THE CRYSTALLINE LENS. The Crystalline Lens is a biconvex, transparent structure situated between the vitreous humor and the iris. It is of a rounded form and inclosed within its own capsule, the anterior portion of which is thick and is continuous with the suspensory ligament. The posterior portion of the capsule is a thin layer of hyaloid membrane like that which lines the dish-like depression in the front of the vitreous body. At the side the rounded border of the lens forms the base of the delta shaped canal of Petit, whose remaining boundaries are defined by the layers of the suspensory ligament. The lens measures one-third of an inch (eight mm.) from side to side, and one-fiftli of an inch from before backward. It is flatter in front than behind, and does not completely fill its capsule, a small quantity of a clear fluid being normally found therein, the so-called liquor of Morgagni. Structure The lens is composed of an assemblage of lamellffi, which are developed from cells. Each measures g^'jjyth inch in diameter, and presents a slightly serrated edge. Upon section it is observed to be 6-sided and pris- moidal. A lamella when examined in its foi'mative stage is observed to be nucleated. These nuclei, however, early disappear or become inconspicuous, and can be demon- strated only by the action of reagents. The space between the lens and the anterior capsule is occupied by a single layer of nucleated cells. ' M. Aeby (Arch. f. Ophth., xxviii. 1882, 111) rlescribes a me- thod by which tlie canal of Petit can be studied with great advan- tage in an eye which has been subjected to maceration for several days in water.