ON MAKING P0ST-M0RTP:M EXAMINATIONS. 781 <><>0^^<><>o — bone (inclusive of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid), while the petrous portions of the temporal bone lie in the lateral leaflets. The junction of the anterior leaflet and the lateral leaflets is secured at a point answering to the bottom of the glenoid fossa, which in the brain-case answers to a point at the base of the petrosal eminence at the lateral half of the middle cerebral fossa. It is to be understood from the onset that a section of the skull the shape and size of the trifoil figure is to be removed by vertical section. The essential feature of the procedure is to insert a narrow saw-blade of a bow-saw through an opening made through the middle cerebral fossa at the point indicated, and the section made by sawing out ver- tically the pattern of the trifoil. The plan being thus understood, Schalle begins the dissection of the parts outside the brain-case as fol- lows :—■ An incision is made with a stout scalpel over both clavicles, from one acromial process to the other. The head and neck are next made to fall by a shoulder- block being thrust beneath the scapula, and the inci- sion continued upward, along one side of the neck to an inch and a half above and behind the external au- ditory meatus, and is here made continuous with the transverse incision across the vertex already made for removal of the skullcap. It now descends on the opposite side of the neck, and meets the acro- mial end of the first trans-clavicular incision. This long and bold cut can be well covered subsequently by the clothing, and permits of free manipulation of parts lying between the limits of the incision, both in front and behind. The anterior flap is turned down over the face to the brows, and laterally, by free incision through the cartilaginous external auditory meatus, to over the cheeks. Next the anterior flap is raised from the cla- vicles to the lower jaw. The structures of the supra- hyoid region, viz., the Genio hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Hyo- glossus, Genio-glossus, and D'gastric muscles, the facial arteries, etc., are divided, and the tongue drawn down and out of the mouth upon the neck. The palato-glossal and pharyngo-glossal connections are next divided, the pharynx severed about on the level of the aperture of the larynx, and the entire hyoid apparatus with the tongue pulled toward the ster- num, thus leaving a free space for manipulation upon the under part of the skull. The Pterygoid muscles are now separated from the lower jaw, the temporo- maxillary articulation opened from within, and the lower jaw drawn forward, so as to rest upon the arti- cular eminence in advance of the glenoid fossa. The molar teeth in the upper jaw are now extracted to avoid the resistance they would offer to the action of tlie saw. The posterior wall of the pharynx is next removed from in front of the vertebral column, and as far as possible from the roof of the pharynx. All the space needed is secured. It is now necessary to fix the lower jaw in its forward position at the chin, and to steady the skull while the bottom of the glenoid fossa is perforated to permit the use of the saw, which is made to perform a circuit, cutting out in the shape of a trifbil-cylinder the cavity of the nose and both petrous portions of the temporal bone. The saw should pass between the crista galli and the fora- men caecum in front, close to the squamous portion of the temporal bone at the sides and about midway between the foramen magnum and the occipito-sphe- noidal junction, behind. AVhen the section is complete it can be removed from above by gentle pressure on the hard palate. The specimen will not include the anterior half of the superior maxilla, the anterior ethmoidal cells, the anterior part of the inferior turbinate bone, the inte- rior of the external nose, nor the outer posterior part of the mastoid process. These should, therefore, be care- fully inspected in the cadaver before closing the parts. To effect the latter the lower jaw must be read- justed to the portion of the glenoid fossa yet remain- ing in position, the tongue and hyoid apparatus replaced. The brain-case is filled with some light absorbent material, such as sawdust or oakum, and the remains of the eyeballs pushed outwards—since the section has, of necessity, included part of the orbital contents. The skullcap is restored in the ordinary way, and the skin-flaps readjusted. This manipu- lation appears at first sight laborious, and would doubtless prove so to a tyro. To one accustomed to the use of instruments no great degree of difficulty need be anticipated. It is likely that the use of the dental engine, in lieu of the bow-saw, would greatly facilitate making the section. Foulis^ advocates an examination of the middle ear by splitting the petrous portion of the temporal bone with a chisel along a line parallel to the squa- mous plate, directly to the outer slope of the eminence caused by the superior semicircular canal. The tym- panum is opened by this procedure, as well as the mastoid cells, while the stapes is usually separated from the incus. Should a particular examination of ' British Med. .Touni., April 24, 1880.