THE LIVER. 671 SOO^OOC transverse fissure. These may be enlarged when the liver has undergone cancerous, amyloid, or tubercular change. Primary cancer of the stomach may induce infiltration in the lesser omentum, and by that means compression of the bile-duct. Causes operating at the duodenal end of the duct.— Tumor of the pancreas may either invade the duo- denum and close the orifice of the common duct, or penetrate and obstruct the duct at diiferent parts of its course, but when large, it may compress tlie duct from without so as to constrict or obliterate its lumen.—Cicatricial compression or ulceration may involve the duodenal orifice. Causes ojjeratinr/ between the hepatic a7id duodenal termiiial orifices.—Here may be mentioned enlarge- ment (either cancerous or tubercular) of the retro- peritoneal glands, or tumor of the omentum. The common duct is capable of being dilated. Roki- tansky gives an instance of a gall-stone the size of a hen's egg passing through the duct. The parts after such distension would naturally fail to regain their normal condition, and may permit regurgitation of fiuid, as well as exit of distomata (flukes) and of hy- datids from the liver to the duodenum. Both the hepatic duct and the common biliary duct may become enormously dilated above a point of compression.' The (/all-bladder normally presents clinical relations which may be considered as of two kinds, visceral and parietal. The 'y/sce?-^? relations are with the transverse colon and the upper part of the second portion of the duo- denum, answering to the point where these structures come in contact with the under surface of the gall- bladder. Frequent variations in their relative posi- tions, however, are noticeable, and it should not be forgotten that the gall-bladder may be in contact with the first portion of the duodenum instead of the second, and in some instances with the pylorus. So the fundus may lie upon the ascending instead of upon the trans- verse colon, and even upon the right kidney. In in- stances in which the liver is pressed downward, the relations of all its parts are violently disturbed. In such cases the gall-bladder lies in contact with the small intestine. Gall-stones are in the vast majority of cases lodged at the fundus of the gall-bladder. At the same time it must be borne in mind that any portion of the biliary apparatus may accommodate them. Thus 1 Todd, Dublin Hosp. Rep., i. they may be impacted in the neck of the cystic duct; they may form in the radicles of the hepatic duct in the interior of the liver; they may be lodged in the hepatic duct before its junction with the cystic duct; or they may be lodged in the common duct. Perforation of the Avails of the gall-bladder by a gall-stone need not necessarily lead to the lodgment of the concretion in the abdominal cavity. During its slow exit, sufficient inflammation may be excited to cause adhesion between the viscus and adjacent parts, and thereby to determine the appearance of the stone in any of the situations enumerated below. It is theoretically possible for a gall-stone to enter any portion of the intestinal canal below the Dia- phragm, as well as the renal pelvis and ureters. Instances have been recorded of the escape of gall- stones into the colon, duodenum,' stomach, portal vein, pleural cavity, pelvis of kidney, and even vagina. In some rare cases in which it had been supposed, from stones having been vomited, that the perforation had occurred through the walls of tlie stomach, it was found after death that it had taken place through the walls of the duodenum. The colon, notwithstanding its proximity to the gall-bladder, is infrequently selected for the exit of a gall-stone—a fact probably due to the extreme mobility of this portion of the alimentary canal. Out of seven of the recorded instances of such lesions six were due to cancerous ulceration.^ The parietal relations of the gall-bladder pertain entirely to the fundus. This commonly lies in con- tact with the abdominal wall, directly to the outer side of the Rectus Abdominis muscle. In enlarged conditions of the gall-bladder the fundus can be de- tected through the skin. Any fluctuating tumor in this position should be punctured with extreme cau- tion. According to Hyrtl, J. L. Pettit opened such a collection in mistake for an hepatic abscess. Pagen- stecker^ describes a curious case in which laparotomy had been performed for the relief of intestinal ob- struction. The gall-bladder was found adherent by its fundus to the abdominal wall near the right iliac fossa, while higher up, between the remainder of the viscus and the abdominal wall, coils of small intes- ' According to C. Murcliison, Diseases of the Liver and Gall- Bladder, 515, "the opening in tlie biliary passage is almost always at the fundus of the gall-bladder, but occasionally it is in the common bile-duct; that in the duodenum is in its third or lowest division.'''' « Ibid., p. 510. ' Langenbeck's Archiv fiir Klin. Cliirurgie, 18G1, ii.