OKGANS OF SENSE. 610 • 000^00= from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. It is lodged in the sernicanalis, becomes tendinous as it passes around the tympanic edge of the partition between the sernicanalis and the Eustachian tube (processus cochleariformis), and is inserted by a deli- cate tendon into the base of the handle of the malleus, upon the inner (tympanic) side of the bone, immedi- ately below the base of the short process. Function.—To rotate the malleus inward and indi- rectly to make tense the tympanic membrane. The length of the tendon from the end of the sernicanalis to its insertion on the hammer Weber^ gives at two and a fourth mm., and its direction as being somewhat forward and downward. Its insertion on the malleus is tiiree and three- fourths mm. from the end of the manubrium, and four and a half mm. below the top of the malleus. The Tensor Tympani is surrounded throughout its entire course by a fibrous sheath arising from the roof of the tubal cartilage, and from the edge of the fibro-cartilage basilaris, and passing along the entire muscle. The mucous mem- brane of the chamber does not come in contact with the muscle. Even here its sheath is continuous with that from the osseous portion. THE STAPEDIUS. The Stapedius is a small muscle which arises from the cavity within the pyramid. After escaping from this cavity it turns at nearly a right angle, and is in- serted upon the anterior side of the neck of the stapes. According to Kiidinger, the tendon sends a slip to the lenticular process and to the capsule. The same writer describes a small fascicle (^Fixator Baseos Stapedis) w-hich passes from the upper margin of the oval window to the stapes. Function.—The Stapedius assists in holding the stapes in position, and draws the head of the bone backward and slightly downward, and relaxes the pressure on the oval window. It thus acts as a check to the inward pressure of the stapes against the labyrinth. The same act of contraction aids in re- laxing the tympanic membrane; the muscle thus acts ' Monatschr. fiir Ohrenheilkunde, Oct. 1872. as an antagonizer to the action of the Tensor Tym- pani. NerveSu'p'ply.—The Tensor Tympani secures nerve- fibres from the otic ganglion. The Stapedius is supplied by the facial nerve. Eemarks.—The Tensor Tympani muscle under- goes contracture in some forms of chronic deafness, and it has been proposed to divide the tendon as it lies near the neck of the malleus. The Stapedius muscle is sometimes paralyzed in facial palsy. THE INNER EAR. The Inner Ear (the labyrinth) is the essential por- tion of the organ of hearing. It is situated within the petrous portion of the temporal bone, between the internal auditory meatus and the chamber of the tympanum. It is composed of a membranous laby- rinth and a bony labyrinth. The membranous lalyrinth is a chamber of irregular form which contains a fluid and particles of carbonate of lime, known as otoliths. The chamber receives the terminal filaments of the acoustic nerve. The ho7iy labyrinth is the osseous envelope of the membranous labyrinth. THE BONY LABYRINTH. The membranous labyrinth is encased in a bony framework which corresponds to it in form. The bony labyrinth is surrounded by a thin cancellated layer of bone, with the exception of the outer sur- face which lies upon the inner wall of the tympanic chamber, where it is covered with thin mucous mem- brane. The cancellated tissue is best developed in the infant, while in the adult it becomes relatively compact. As a result of this disposition, the laby- rinth is more difficult to remove from the skull in the adult than in the young subject. The bony labyrinth (figs. 2, 3, 4, Plate XCVIII.) is composed of— The Vestibule. The Semicircular Canals. The Cochlea. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCVIII. Fig. 1. View of the posterior nares and the relative parts, as seen by reflected light. Fig. 2. The bony labyrinth in position, as seen from behind. Fig. 3. The bony labyrinth in position, as seen from above. Fig. 4. A frontal (transverse vertical) section of the tem- poral bone with the Eustachian tube in position. De- signed more particularly to display the Aqufcductus Fallopii (facial canal) and the tympanic chamber.