762 EMBKYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF M A LF O E M A TI 0 N S. 0<20^<XX* In order to show the significance of the shaggy chorion it is necessary to study some of the later changes in tlie interior of the egg. After the amnion is formed, and the splanchnopleure is determined, a small bud-like process is projected from the hypo- blast, and appears upon the under surface of the embrj'o between the umbilical vesicle and the sub- zonal layer. This is the ulluntois. Fiir. 232. braces the egg, and retires it, as it were, from the general uterine cavity (Fig. 233). Fis. 233. Diagram of the embryo and its vessels, showing the circulation of the umbilical vesicle ; and also that of the allautois, beginning to be formed. The allantois grows downward and outward increas- ing in size as the umbilical vesicle diminishes, and tends to approach the sub-zonal layer, and, expanding as it does so, unites by a relatively broad surface of con- tact with the layer last named and through it with the shaggy chorion, while its point of origin remains nar- rowed and stem-like. The abdominal vessels pass freely into the allantois, and by the time its develop- ment is completed it is very vascular. The allantois is tlius a projection of mesoblast con- taining a lining membrane of hypoblast. Its walls define a space which is known as the allantoic sjmce, and is filled with fluid—the allantoic liquid. The pedicle of the allantois is at a later period con- tinuous through the urachus with the urinary bladder, and, at a time when the abdominal viscera are devel- oped, the pedicle of the allantois becomes the um- bilical cord. Uterine changes incident to pregnancy.—The egg in the time during which the above-named changes have been effected has passed from the Fallopian tube into the uterus, the walls of which are peculiarly prepared for its reception. Instead of being smooth they are now tufty; instead of being firm they are now soft and yielding. The egg is soon arrested by its own villoid processes which catch upon the inequalities of the soft lining membrane of the uterus, audits further descent prevented.—The uterine membrane now em- Impregnated uterus, showing the connection between the villosities of the chorion and the decidual membranes. A few terms which require definition are employed in describing the relations between the uterus and the impregnated egg. The whole lining membrane of the uterus in its peculiar changed condition due to the influence of an impregnated egg descending the Fallopian tube, is called the memhrana decidua. That portion of the membrane lining the uterus other than the surface of contact of the egg is called the memhrana decidua vera; that portion at which the contact takes place between the egg and the uterine wall is called the memhrana decidua seritona; and that portion inclosing the egg is called the memhrana decidua reflexa (Fig 234.) Fig. 2.3J. Pregnant uterus, showing the formation of the placenta by the local development of the decidua and the chorion. The surface of contact of the allantois with the chorion so influences the nutritive processes in the latter membrane that the villi of the shaggy coat at this place effect firmer union with the uterine membrane than elsewhere. Indeed at all points other than the one indicated the villoid processes disappear. The Placenta is the result of modifications excited