THE FALLOPIAN TUBE. OOO^CXX! 715 Fip Human ovnm, ruptured by pressure, showing the vitellus partially expelled, the fjertniuative vesicle with its germinative spot, at a,and the smooth fracture of the vitelline membrane. Zks, measuring one three-thousandth of an inch in diameter, which is called the macula germinativa, or germinal spot. Bloodvessels.—The ovary is supplied by the ovarian arteries, branches of the internal iliac. The veins form a bulb below the hilum which is analogous to the corpus spongiosum,, and which is sometimes referred to under the name of pampiniform plexus. The ovarian vessels may become varicose, and under pressure may even rupture. Lymphatics.—The lymphatics join the lumbar glands. Relations The relations of the ovary are subject to great changes, which are more or less determined by tlie state of the uterus. In pregnancy the ovary is carried up to the side of the abdomen. After delivery it lies in tlie iliac fossa. In rare instances it has been found in the sac of a femoral or inguinal hernia. Barnes* gives the follow- ing as conclusions which may be drawn from a study of the anomalies of relation of the ovaries: " Such anomalies are fre- quently the result of inflammatory action. The most common is the adhesion with the Fallopian tube ; next in frequency is the adhesion of the ovary, either with or without the tube, to the hinder wall of the uterus, and the neighboring parts of the broad ligament down to the bottom of the recto- vaginal pouch. These adhesions frequently result from puerperal pei'itonitis at a time when the uterus is above the usual size, filling the pelvic cavity, and when its appen- dages are thrown back to its posterior surface. Adhesions of the ovary also take place to the sides of the pelvis, to the rectum, to the sigmoid flexure, in consequence of pelvic peritonitis to which anomalous maturation and morbid pro- cesses in the ovaries or tubal catarrh has given rise." The Parovarium The parovarium is a group of small tubes varying from twelve to eighteen in number, which are lodged in the broad ligament between the Fallopian tube a!)d the ovaiy. The tubules slightly converge from above downwards, and are united at their upper ends by a transverse tube, which is longer than the others. A small hydatiform enlargement is often seen in connection witii the parovarium. The entire organ measures from two to three lines in width. The tubes are lined with ciliated epithe- > Loc. cit., p. 267. lium. The parovarium is a rudiment of a portion of the Wolffian body, and is homologous with the epididymis of the testis. It is not known to have any practical value. T. Grainger Stewart' described a cystic distension of the tubes of the right parovarium. In the same subject the Fallopian tubes terminated in culs-de-sac. Variations Supernumerary ovaries are exceedingly rare. Puech^ and Sinety^ have recorded examples. Remarks.—^The ovary may be compressed by ex- ternal palpation, as a result of which a peculiar pain is experienced. The organ is frequently the seat of neuralgia, which is remarkable for the varied reflexes excited. The ovary may be so far depressed from the position it normally occupies as to be felt by vaginal palpation, when it can be excised through the wall of the vagina. The organ has been re- peatedly excised, either for removal of the large cysts or other outgrowths originating in it, or for the relief of obstinate hysterical conditions. THE FALLOPIAN TUBE. The Fallopian Tube (tig. 1, Plate CIX.) is the ovi- duct. It answers pretty accurately to the upper border of the broad ligament, which here holds to the tube a position analogous to that held by the mesen- tery to the ileum and jejunum. It measures about four inches in length, and is rarely symmetrical, the right being the larger. The Fallopian tube is con- venientiv divided into three portions:— (1) The infundibulum. (2) The free tubal portion. (3) The interstitial portion, included in the uterine wall. (1) The infundihulura (morsus dialoli, or pavilion) is a corolla-like expansion of the tube, designed to embrace the ovary at the time of the escape of the ovum. Its borders are furnished with numbers of rounded or pointed processes, which, from their re- semblance to fringe, have been caMedfmhriae. Some of these processes are arranged upon the sides of others, while tiie fiinbrife near the borders occasionally unite, causing a lattice-like appearance. One of the fringed proces.ses extends from the ovary to this por- tion of the infundibulum. At the bottom of the infundibulum is the narrowed opening leading to the ampulla (q. v.) (2) The free tubal portion is widest at its outer end, but contracts toward the uterus. The outer half 1 .Tourn. of Anat. and Phys., 1868, 243. 2 Du Ovaries de leiirs anomalies, Paris, 1873, 39. ' Comptes Rendus de la Soo. de BioL, ii. 1875, 259.