646 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. r>00^*C>00 - spinous process of the ilium. Hence the facility with which in such subjects duodenal regurgitation may occur. It is unnecessary to resort to the suppo- sition of tight-lacing, as has been done by some writers, to account for the prolapsus of the pylorus in anajrnic persons. One of the most important indirect relations of the pyloric extremity is entered into by the head of the pancreas. When enlarged by cancer this portion of the gland may press against the pylorus and almost obliterate it.^ Cancerous infiltration of the pylorus, by increasing its weight, may draw this portion of the stomach further down in the abdomen than is normal, viz., as far as the eleventh dorsal vertebra, opposite the umbilicus, or as above stated to a point near the ilium. It is apt, moreover, to become superficial, by reason of the inflated condition of the first portion of the duodenum, whose relations are necessarily disturbed by the descent. As a result a tumor answering to the cancerous mass may often be felt through the abdominal walls. In repletion^ the stomach, besides becoming trans- verse to the vertical axis of the trunk, advances in front by increased dilatation of the lower side of the organ. The fundus occupies almost entirely the left hypochondriac region. An instrument penetrating the sixth, seventh, eighth, or t4ie ninth left intercostal space would enter it. The pylorus is raised and deflected to the right—lying about two inches and three-quarters from the median line. The curvatures of the entire organ are pronounced, and the greater one advanced forward. The transverse colon lies below the stomach, while the pancreas lies directly behind it, and, in the opinion of Hyrtl, is compressed by it, so that an outflow of pancreatic secretion is assured. At the same time it would appear that the vessels accompanying the pancreas are free from pressure since they lie along the upper border of the organ. The common bile duct and portal vein are also free from pressure. "When a tumor, whicli has been detected in the posi- tion above indicated, can no longer be outlined, and its site is occupied by a tympanitic surface, it is prob- able that the transverse colon has descended from its usual high position, and is lying directly in front of the indurated mass. The stomach may assume pro-portions greatly in excess of those stated above as normal. The supe- rior curvature has been known to measure 37J inches. In the operation of gastrotomy the organ will be found distended to an enormous extent—if the ob- struction lies below the pylorus—but contracted and in the position of fasting if the obstruction is oeso- phageal. In extreme degrees of distension the stomach presses upward against the Diaphragm, and laterally against the lower ribs. It thus interferes with a free respira- tory movement, and disturbs the action of the heart. Hence the palpitation in prolonged or excessive gas- tric repletion, and the reference of the sensations of dyspepsia to the region of the heart. The effects of respiration upon the stomach are briefly as follows: The pylorus is lowered by a forced inspiration to the level of the umbilicus. The cardiac orifice is drawn downward by the crura of the Diaphragm for about one inch. An application may here be made of the laiv of localization of diseased action, viz., that parts enjoying the most rest are least liable to involvement by struc- tural disease. Out of 220 instances of gastric ulcer col- lected by W. Brinton, but 4 were found in the cardiac pouch, while 32 were found in the pyloric end. It is not so easy to explain the occurrence of 86 ulcers on the posterior surface, and 56 on the lesser curvature, while 10 only were niet with on the anterior surface, and 5 on the greater curvature. It is probable, in view of these striking contrasts, that the lesser curva- ture and posterior surface have much in common, and that they are in a condition of greater functional activity during digestion, or are subjected to greater strain by the change from the empty to the distended position. During the gradual process of restitution which is effected after every meal, the muscular coats of the stomach contract. Should this contraction be irreg- ular, a constriction will often take place about mid- way between the extremities; this, when persisting after death, has received the name of the hour-glass constriction. (See Variations.) When the contrac- tion is very marked, it is associated with a twisting of the entire organ. In a case of this kind, which was carefully studied by L. Mazzotti,^ the stomach was found occupying nearly the whole of the umbilical region. The organ was so constricted that the upper left portion was distended with gas and nearly vertical, while the horizontal right portion was collapsed and described almost an entire circle, the contracted part being the centre about which the rotation was effected. The organ being removed and distended the normal appearance was at once restored. A similar twisting 1 Sewall, Med. and Phys. Journ., xxxi. 9G. 1 L'Union Medicale, 1875.