THE OKGANS OF RESPIRATION. G86 :<X>^OCx= Tlie lower division of tliese fibres lias been named by Hilton the Compressor Sacculi Laryngis. Slips from both the muscles last named accompany and are continuous with the superficial interwoven fibres of the Ary- tenoid muscle. Both are continuous with each other, and constitute the Thyro-Aryteno-Epiglottideus muscle of Henle. Remaeks.—Acquaintance witli the muscles of the hirjnx is essential to the correct interpretation of alterations of voice as dependent upon disease. Thus, the paralysis of the adductors of the vocal cords (the Lateral Ci'ico-Arytenoid and the Arytenoid) causes abduction of the cords. Occasionally the Lateral Crico-Arytenoid of one side only may be the seat of degenerative change. Spasm of the adductors is the essential phenomenon of laryngismus stridulus. Paralysis of the abductors of the vocal cords (the Posterior Crico Arytenoid muscles) causes adduction of the cords. When bilateral it creates a condition dangerous to life by reason of the resultant complete adduction of the cords. M. Mackenzie^ narrates two instances of involvement of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and consequent paralysis and degeneration of the above muscles. In one of these the patient was a male fifty years of age. An extensive cancerous growth had incorporated itself with the left recurrent nerve at a point at which it passes beneath the arch of the aorta. In the other instance,^ that of a female aged twenty-six, a number of small and apparently benign tumors had developed near the trachea. One of these involved the left recurrent nerve in such a manner that the nerve appeared to be completely imbedded in the growth. The tensors of the vocal cords—the Crico-Thyroids, as well as the laxators of the vocal cords, the Thyro- Arytenoids, may be all or severally diseased. Paraly- sis of the Thyro-Epiglottideus muscle may ensue upon diphtheria and progressive bulbar paralysis.—In the event of impairment of the function of the Thyro- Arvtenoid muscle the condition is usually followed by an abnormally high pitched voice. This result may also ensue upon defective development of the muscle. The loss of voice, so frequently noticed in neurotic females, is usually due to paresis of this muscle. THE INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. The Interior of the Larynx (figs. 1, 4, 5, Plate CIV.) is covered throughout with mucous membrane, which in some measure conceals the plan of the car- ' Lond. Hosp. Rep., 1867, 107. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loudon, 1868, 84. tilaginous framework. It is divided at the position of the true vocal cords into two portions or regions, the supra-glottic and the infra-glottic. The su2')ra-glottic portion, which extends from the tip of the epiglottis to the true vocal cords, is wide, of a varied outline, more movable, and is furnished with a thicker mucous membrane, as compared with the infra-glottic portion; this portion presents a nearly circular outline, is almost immobile, and its mucous membratie is everywhere smooth, thin, and adherent. The diameter of both regions abruptly narrows at the glottis, so that the interior of the larynx can be happily compared to an hour-glass. This resem- blance is best seen in a right and left vertical section of the adult larynx. The supra-glottic portion presents for examination the pharyngo-laryngeal sinus and the vestibule of the larnj'x. The Pharyngo-Laryngeal Sinus (pyramidal sinus) is a relatively unimportant space between the inner wall of the thyroid cartilage and the outer wall of the vestibule as defined by the quadrangular membrane, and by the thyro-hyoid membrane and hyoid bone above. It has no connection with phonation, and is lined with mucous membrane having characterist'cs in common with that of the pharynx. It is often the seat of inflammation or of ulceration, and affords lodgment for foreign bodies. The Vestibule of the Larynx is bounded above by the superior laryngeal aperture, below by the rima glottidis, and on the sides by the quadrangular mem- brane, the ventricle, and the false vocal cord. It will be described as the interior is approached from above downward. The Superior Laryngeal Aperture is of a triangular or cordiform figure, the apex of which is forward and the base backward. It is oblique from before back- ward and from above downward. In front is the epiglottis, from the side of which extend the aryteno- epiglottic folds; these terminate at the eminences of the cartilages of Santorini. To the outer side of the latter are seen the eminences for the cartilages of Wrisberg. At the median line of the posterior border is a deep vertical notch, the inter-arytenoid space, which is limited below by the cricoid carti- lage and at the sides by the inner borders of the ary- tenoid cartilages. The Arytenoid Glands. Along the aryteno-epi- glottic border posteriorly are a number of racemose glands, which surround the eminences of the carti- lages of Wrisberg. At the inner margin of the ary- tenoid cartilage they descend abruptly into the vesti-