THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. -oOO^O-OO 613 Structure The bony lamina consists of a compact tissue at its free edge, as well as upon the upper and lower surfaces; but within it is porous. It is continuous with the similar structure of the modiolus, and is distinguished from it by numbers of minute anastomosing canals, which transmit the cochlear nerves and bloodvessels to the membranous cochlea. Winding spirally around the modiolus, beneatii the lamina spiralis, is a small canal called the canalis spiralis modioli (spiral canal of Rosentlial). The Aquaiductus Cochlea. This is a small canal leading from the cochlea at the tympanic scala to the base of the skull. It is of a triangular siiape, and is situated upon the ridge which lies between the carotid canal and the jugular fossa. It conveys the perilympli from the cochlear scalaj to the subarachnoid space. THE MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. The Membranous Labyrinth is the true organ of hearing, and to it the terminal filaments of the audi- tory nerve are distributed. It lies within the bony labyrinth, to which it corresponds quite closely in form, though it does not completely fill the various cavities of this structure, being separated therefrom for the most part by a serous fluid called the ^)eri- lijm.ph. The membranous and bony labyrinths are in contact at the points where the auditory nerve enters the former, and along the convex border of the cochlea. Fig. 144. Diagrammatic outline of the membranous laltyrintli, 1. Vertical transverse s. c canal; 2. Vertical longitmlinal s. c. canal; 3. Horizontal s. e. canal; 4 Rccessus labyrinth!; 5. Saccule; 6. Utricle; 7. Canalis reunions ; 8. Canal of the cochlea. The membranous labyrinth' consists of six chief parts— The Utricle. The Saccule. ' The term membranous labyrinth i3 used by some German writers (see Rudinger and Waldeyer, Strieker's Handbiicli) as dis- tinct from the cochlea, whicli is separately treated. The Semicircular Canals. The Canal of the Cochlea. The Canalis Reuniens. Recessus Labyrinthi. The membranous labyrinth is composed of a cen- tral portion which answers in position to the vestibule, and is divided into a posterior chamber—the ulrich— lodged in the fovea hemielliptica and the remaining portion of the vestibule not occupied by the saccule,' and an anterior chamber—the saccule—which is lodged in the fovea hemispherica. The utricle is a part of the system of the semicircular canals, and the saccule is a part of the system of the cochlea. The utricle, in a marked degree, and the saccule, in a slight degree, are slightly compressed from before backward. Both the utricle and the saccule contain a circumscribed collection of crystals of carbonate of lime (otoliths, otoconia) which is fixed to the inner wall. Each semicircular canal expands into a flask-shaped chamber toward the ampnlla^ which corresponds in form and position to the ampulla already described in the account of the bony laby- rinth. The utricle, saccule, and the ampullae are united to the periosteum of the bony labyrinth at points which answer to the entrance of nerve-fila- ments. Fig. 145. The membranous labyrinth and the distribution of the auditory nerve (dia- grammatic), a, branch to saccule; h, branch to amimlhi of the vertical longi- tudinal semicircular canal; c, branch to utricle. Each of the semicircular canals exhibits on trans- verse section an oval lumen, and is occupied by three layers—an outer, a middle, and an inner. The outer layer (membranous layer) is fibrous, and, as already stated, is fixed to the periosteum at certain points of the bony labyrinth. 1 The utricle is represented by many writers as confined to tlie fovea hemielliptica. The author has followed Heule (see fig. 144) in the above description.