760 embeyoloctY and the study of malfoemations. coC'^Ocx; included the rudimentary and transitional hard parts arranged in the long axis of the embryo, under the position of the future vertebral column) (Fig. 229), the spine, and its contents. Fis. 229. Human embryo about oue month old, sliou iug the growth of the frontal pro- cess downward, and that of the superior and inferior maxillary processes from the side. The proto-vertebra; are distinctly sliowu. Eemarks.—Defects of the cavity of the central ner- vous system are of two kinds: First, the defects arising within the nerve-matter itself, and second, those arising from theimperfect development of the walls of the skull and of the vertebral canal. Under the operations of the law that a deeply seated structure influences the development of the superficial parts whose function it is to cover in, and protect such structure (see p. 719), it will be seen, when both the deeply seated and inclosing structure arise from the same layer in the blastoderm—the epiblast — that the correlation be- tween the rate of development of the two must be more than usually exact. In spina bifida, for exam- ple, in which condition, owing to the distension exerted by the fluids within the cerebral canal of the cord or its membranes, the medullary folds have failed to unite, the spinal cord itself is often defective. Spina bifida is more common at the lower portion of the ver- tebral column than elsewhere, but may involve the occiput.—In like manner the defects of brain devel- opment correlate with corresponding defects in the vertex of the skull. In Acrania the brain may be absent, and the skull be without vertex ; or a mere rudiment of the brain may be found inclosed in a relatively large dorsal sac. The frontal and occipital portions of the vertex may be absent. The condition known as syrin(jom.yelns, in which the central canal of the spinal cord is larger than usual, may be congenital, and relate to an imperfect closure of the medullary groove.^ ' See, ill connection with this subject, F. Taylor, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., xxix. 1878, 21, and K. Leyden, Virchow's Archiv, Ixviii. 1. See also variations of the spinal cord, p. 470. (3) THE REGION OF TPTE ALIMENTARY TRACT AND THE BODY-WALL. At an early period the margin of the blastodermic membrane becomes thickened mainly by the increase of mesoblastic elements, and is cleft horizontally into two leaves. The inner of the leaves unites with the epiblast to form an inner tube, which constitutes the alimentary canal, its appendages, and the umbilical vesicle: from this circumstance it receives the name of the s-planclinopleure. The outer of the leaves uniting with the hypoblast constitutes the body-wall of the embryo, particularly that of the thoracico-abdominal chamber, and has received the name of the soviaio- fleure.—It will be noted that the striated muscle-fibres of the body-wall are of somatopleure-origin ; and that the unsti'iated muscle-fibres of the abdominal tract are of splanchnopleure-origin.—The space between the splanchnopleure and the somatopleure is called the pJeuroperitoneal space^ and is lined with a serous membrane. This arrangement of parts persists with unimportant modifications in fishes, batrachia, rep- tiles, and in the majority of birds; but, in some birds and in mammals, the Diaphragm intervenes between the thoracic and peritoneal spaces. Eemarks.—Among the defects of the somatopleure may be mentioned the following: The entire ahdomi- nal wall m,ay he absent and the intestines be exposed or protected by the parietal peritoneum only. The uracil us may persist, and the abdominal wall from the navel down to the pubis be imperfect or absent. Hernise of the liver and intestine frequently occur, especially at the position of the umbilicus, which even in slight degrees of defect of the abdominal wall is liable to be larger and more patulous than is normal, and to aid in maintaining intestinal protru- sions. In the chest the sternura may he ahsent^ from which the variety of defect known as ErAopia cordis is derived.—The Diaphragm may be absent.—In lateral duplication of parts the thorax is variously de- formed. The presence of diverticuli of the intestine, and the union of a diverticulum with the umbilicus may be accepted as errors of development of the sjyJanch- nopleure and its ducts. In like manner the general history of the variations in the alimentary canal and its appendages may be referred to the impress made upon the embryo at the time of the appearance of the splanchnopleure. This subject of retained omphalo-mesenteric vessels