1 718 THE GENITO-UEINARY OKGANS. =00^00^^ The interior is smooth, and presents in tlie body and fundus a triangular appearance, tlie orifices of the Fallopian tubes and the internal os yielding the angles. In the child-bearing woman the sides of the triangle are more regular than in the virgin, and are less convex. The cavity of the neck is elliptical, being slightly narrowed at either end. It is circular at the internal OS, but somewhat flattened elsewhere. It is marked by the two longitudinal ridges of muscular tissue, one on the front, the other on the hinder surface. Diverging obliquely from these are numbers of lines which cause the entire arrangement to be compared to a fern leaf, and has received from its general plant-like appearance the name of arbor vitse. Henle describes the majority of the lateral rugas as finally running parallel to the main longitudinal ridge. The two ridges are nof exactly apposed according to Barnes, but are adapted side by side. According to Avelin, the thickness of the two sides of the cervix often varies considerably. The substance of the uterus is of a uniform dark- grayish color, which is best seen in the fundus or body. It is of a spongy character. According to Duncan, under a certain degree of hydraulic pressure, air or liquid may be made to penetrate the entire thickness of the uterine wall. It resolves itself upon careful examination into an intricate assoc'ation of unstriated muscular fibres. These are arranged from within outward as follows:— 1st. A circular layer continuous with that of the Fallopian tubes. It consists at the fundus of sphincter- like groups about the orifices of the tubes, and, lower down, of bands embracing the cavity of the uterus at low angles of intersection, but becomes circular at the lower end of the body to form the internal os or isthmus. 2d. Variously placed oblique bands, which tend to surround the uterine vessels. 3d. Longitudinal bands, which are for the most part situated upon the posterior surface. The ligaments of the uterus contain muscular fibre, which is continuous with that of the body of the uterus. The mucous membrane in the body is thin and in- conspicuous, but when carefully examined it is seen to be composed of a delicate basement yiembrane and columnar epithelial cells, which are furnished with cilia. Numerous minute glandular follicles beset the general internal surface of the uterine body and fun- dus, the orifices of which cause the mucous mem- brane to appear minutely punctate. These follicles are lined with a cubical, non-ciliated epithelium. The mucous membrane of the neck differs markedly from that of the body in being of a grayish or rosv- white color, and in being much thicker. The entire surface is covered with squamous epithelium, and the lower third is furnished with villi. The glands of Fig. 195. Antero-posterior (saj^itlal) section of the pelvic orgaos of a virgin, 1, Vagina ; 2, utei'us ; 3, posterior lip ; 4, anterior lip ; 5, anus ; 6, perineum ; 7, symphysis pubis ; 8, fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. the cervix resemble those of the body, but yield a clear tenacious secretion which occupies the os. The ovula Nobothi are pellucid cyst-like bodies within the mucous membrane. They are held to be the result of distension of certain of the follicles. The peritoneal investment of the fundus and body is complete, while that of the neck is restricted to the upper portion only. Not only is this the case, but the character of the investment differs, since in the former the membrane is directly united with the uterus, while in the latter some connective tissue intervenes. Hence while rupture of the body of the uterus induces hemorrhage in the abdominal cavity, a similar lesion of the cervix rarely does so. Indeed, the neck may be said to be surrounded by connective tissue, which is continuous with the connective tissue of the pelvis. It is distinctly traceable, according to Pansch, in the vesico-vaginal and recto-vaginal septa to a greater distance than has hitherto been supposed. The peritoneum is more firmly united around tlie body on the posterior than on the anterior surface, while at the lower part, where it passes to form the broad ligament, it is looser.