THE SOFT PALATE. .xx>^<^^. 637 Variations Tlie pharynx, by localized weakness of its constricting muscles, may permit bulging of its walls, espe- cially at its lower part. When such a bulging is pro- nounced it has received the name of the pharyngeal pouch. J. W. Ogle has described a case in which the pouch had attained the size of an egg. Mr. Dendy' states that the pouch usually dips down between the ojsophagus and the vertebra;. An adventitious valve-like orifice distinguishes its junction with the pharynx. Great irritation may follow the retention of particles of food within it. In one case, as related by Mr. Dendy, the patient was compelled to fill the pouch with soft solid food before ordinary food could pass info the stomach. The contents of the poucii could be sub- sequently ejected The roof of the pharynx is occasionally the seat of congenital hairy outgrowths.'^ THE SOFT PALATE. The Soft Palate (velum palali, hanging palate) is a nniscLilo-menibranous valve appended to the poste- rior border of the hard palate. It stretches across the line of junction of the mouth and pharynx, but its posterior free border is projected into the pharynx, of which, indeed, it constitutes a part. Dependent from this border is a mobile, nipple-shaped structure called the uvula. At its origin the soft palate is fibrous; but the fibrous structure gradually disap- pears from before backwards, the posterior two-thirds of the soft palate being entirely muscular. The soft palate presents for examination one border and two surfaces,—an anterior and a posterior. The border is thin and divided by the uvula into two crescentic portions. The anterior surface is covered with a thick layer of racemose glands, which pour a viscid secretion into the mouth. The presence of these glands gives a yellowish tinge to this surface, and renders it free from folds. The posterior surface is thin, and without glands, presenting a less closely adherent mucous membrane, which is apt to be faintly marked with minute trans- verse folds. The soft palate receives the insertion of the Tensor Palati and Levator Palati muscles and gives origin to the Palato-Glossi, Palato-Pharyngei, and Azygos Uvulae muscles. These structures more or less inter- lace in the substance of the velum. Mechanism of the Soft Palate.—When at rest, as in expiration, the soft palate is held in its position (obliquely downward and backward) by two pairs of tractors, the Palato-Glossal and the Palato-Pharyngeal 1 Prov. Med. and Surg. .Jouni., August 9, 1848. 2 Journ. of Anat. and Phys., 1881, 244. muscles. When elevated, as in inspiration, these muscles retaining their tensile power, the soft palate is acted upon by a pair of superior tractors, the Le- vato-Palati muscles. When it is raised, as in degluti- tion, or gagging, the process becomes more compli- cated. It is now initiated by the last-named muscles raising the muscular portion of the palate to a level with the aponeurotic portion. Succeeding this, the Palato-Pharyngeal muscles contract, elevate the pharynx, and tend to constrict its middle portion. This stage may be divided as follows: first, the ele- vation of the body of the soft palate, and the apposi- tion of the hinder free end against the posterior wall of the pharynx. Secondly, the approximation of the Palato-Pharyngeal muscles, and the producing of the angle of their convergence toward the middle of the muscular division of the soft palate. Thirdly, the contraction of the uvular muscles. At the comple- tion of the act the oro-pharynx is widened superiorly, while the tonsils, no longer seen in foreshortened pro- file, tend to be drawn deep within the oro-pharynx. The naso-pharynx is, of course, closed. The motions of the soft palate are indirectly influenced by the Pharyngeal Constrictors and the muscles of the Glosso-Hyoid series, and determine the patency of the Eustachian tubes. Within the rano-e of their influence are the acts of breathing, swallowing, smell- ing, speaking, and sucking. If it be correct to say that those regions of the body are naturally defined which include muscles of the same related functions, it is seen that in the soft palate we have no un- important structure, but the centre of a region of tlie mucous tract toward which converoe muscles arisino- from such remote points as the base of the skull and the thyroid cartilage. When the soft palate is elevated it can be readily determined by the use of the throat mirror that the naso-pharynx is virtually obliterated. The floor ascends, the lateral walls approximate each other, and the roof, by corrugation, projects the lymphoid struc- tures downward. These actions can be referred to the Superior Constrictor muscle. Cleland' believes that the free upper edge of this muscle, by changing from a curved to a straight line, aids the Levator Palati in closing the orifice of the Eustachian tube. Variations The uvula is sometimes congenitally divided in the median line. It is at times greatly elongated by dis- ease, when it may serve as an exciting cause of cough. Hyrtl gives a whimsical account of a man who, having an attack of cougiiing, involuntarily caught the end of his pre- ' Journ. of Anat. and Phys., 1868, 102.