618 ORGANS OF SENSE. of the subarachnoidal membrane may be transmitted by continuity to the hibyrinth. A. Lucne^ dissected the ear of a subject dying from the above disease, and found the labyrinth in a state of suppurative inflammation, but with no involvement of the nerve- trunks.—J. W. Ogle^ attributes the implication of the base of the brain, in some forms of suppuration of the inner ear, to a morbific element extending from the ear to the arachnoid membrane by the prolon- gation of that structure along the internal auditory meatus. (d) Tumors have been detected protruding within the internal meatus. Clots may form within the pas- sage, and syphilitic growths have been here located.^ Concluding Eemarks on the Middle Eae.* The Tympanic Chambeb.—MeckeP describes a space between the triangular eminence, the promon- tory, and the oval window, which he named the sinus tympani. H. Steinbriigge^ describes the sinus as fol- lows: An excavation on wall of labyrinth beneath the canal for the facial nerve to a point near the ampullar end of the vertical transverse semicircular canal, and its deepest portion reaches to a point below the floor of the tympanum. Flesh^ believes that the opening occasionally seen in the roof of the tympanic chamber is the result of maceration, and that the absence of bony covering in the living substance is an exceedingly rare occurrence. The mastoid process contains but a single open space (antrum petrosum) in new-born children.^ Politzer enumerates the base of the styloid process among the component parts of the floor of the tym- panic chamber. The mastoid process, when examined in the dried bone of the adult, gives erroneous conceptions of the nature of the cells. Many of them are pneumatic, but others, according to E. Zuckerkandt,^ are filled with fat. The proportion of air-cells and fat-cells is variable. In 39.8 per cent, of cases the cells are wholly pneumatic; in 20 per cent, wholly fat-con- taining; and in 43.2 percent, both kinds were present 1 Arcliiv f. Ohrenlieilk., v. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1859, x. 34. 3 Knapp, Traus. Med. Soo. of New York, 1872. These remarks are to be considered as an addendum to the account of the middle ear, p. 604. ^ Handhuch der mensch. Anat., 1820. 6 Archives of Otology, 1879, viii. 53. ' Archiv fiir Ohrenheilkunde, xviii. 65. 8 Wildermuth, Zeitsoh. fiir Anat. n. Entwickelnngsgescli. II. 9 Mouatsoh. fiir Ohrenheilkunde, 1879. No. 1. in nearlj?- equal proportions. The extension of the inflammation of the lining membrane to the mastoid cells is a complication which is thus seen to be depend- ent upon variations, and upon anatomical grounds alone is seen to be a lesion unlikely to occur in at least 20 per cent, of cases, from the fact that in this pro- portion no air-cells exist. Berthold^ concludes that the mucous membrane of the middle ear receives its trophic fibres from the fifth nerve. Evulsion of this nerve or its section was followed by "vascularization" and "purulent exuda- tion." Similar treatment of the sympathetic and the ninth nerves had no effect. 77ie Ossicles.—The ossicles tell the story of their origin in the manner in which they vary, in the por- tions of the bones attacked by disease, and in the ratio of the attack itself among the several bones of the series. Both of the above statements again correlate with the facts of development, and in a measure with the condition of the bones in animals lower than man. Additional Variations.—In addition to the varia- tions already described on page 609, it may here be stated that as the stapes shows the widest range and greatest frequency of variation of any of the ossicles, so it is the most commonly affected by disease. It is also the bone which exhibits to the greatest extent the effects of advanced age. In this state the base of the stapes is subject to hyperostosis and as a conse- quence to impaired motility. Anchylosis between the stapes and the borders of the oval window may in like manner occur. The fact that the stapes is an ossicle somewhat isolated in its development from the incus and the malleus, and that it has little or no genealogical sig- nificance, may account for its inconstancy in form, and its inability, relatively, as compared with the other ossicles, to resist the encroachments of diseased action.—While the stapes is the most variable the malleus is the least so. The short process and the handle may be absent in congenital defects of the tympanic membrane. In a case of deaf-mutism reported by S. Moos,'' the stapes was found in position, a part of the base being absent, while the incus and the malleus were absent. The slender and short processes of the malleus may be united by a trace of a thin lamina which is homologous with the broader lamina constant in some carnivorous mammals. All the ossicles may • Trans. Fifty-third Congress of German Scientists and Physicians, 1880. 2 Arch, of Ophthal. and Otol. II., 1871, 39.