698 THE GENITO-URIN AEY OEGANS. OOO^OOO tions are obscurely striated, an appearance best seen in tlie medullary. The cortical is not separated by any sharply defined line from the medullary portion, since here and there minute processes pass down a short distance into the medullary region, constituting the so-called columns of Bertini.' The color of the kidney is a dark reddish-brown, externally. In consistence the organ is the most dense and also the most friable of the glands of the body. When moderately compressed the tissue breaks transversely. Each kidney is embraced by a capsule of thin fibrous tissue, containing elastic fibres. This covering is easily stripped from the normal organ, being attached to it only by small bloodves- sels and minute connective tissue fibres. In certain pathological conditions, however, it becomes tightly adherent. Relations Surrounding the kidney is a quantity of deli- cate adipose tissue, which is often called the fatty capsule {tunica adiposo). Behind, the kidney rests upon the lumbar fascia in great part, projecting slightly beyond its outer bor- der, and to its inner side lying upon the psoas fascia, which in connection with the psoas muscle separates it from the vertebral column, and the crus of the Diaphragm, in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs. It thus overlies the twelfth dorsal nerve as well as the transverse branches of the lumbar nerves. In front is the peritoneum, the relations varying on the two sides. Each kidney is surmounted by the corre- sponding supra-renal capsule. The right kidney lies behind the descending portion of the duodenum, the ascending co- lon, and sometimes the gall-bladder. Tiie left lies behind the descending colon, which when contracted is placed to one side. The left kidney also possesses indirect relations in front with the spleen, the panci'eas, and the stomach. In addition to this, the right kidney is in contact with a sligiit depression upon tiie under surface of the liver The lower extremity of the kidney is nearly in contact with the crest of the ilium. According to Holden, the kidney is oppo- site the two lower dorsal and two upper lumbar spines. The pelvis lies about on the level of the first lumbar vertebra. The upper border of the kidney is on the level of the interspace between the eleventh and the twelfth 1 These are absent in edentates, bats, apes, and some carnivo- rous animals, by reason of the confluence of the bases of the pyramids. dorsal vertebrae. The lower border may reach a point as low as the third lumbar spine During deep inspiration both kidneys are depressed slightly.—The kidney can be palpated below the last rib at the outer edge of the Erector Spinae muscle. The medullary portion is composed of from ten to fifteen pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi), whose bases are external, and whose apices project Fig. ] 89. Diagram sLowing the course of the uriiiilerous tubulps in the different parts of the cortex and mcduUa. A. Cortex limited on its free surface l)y the cap- sule ; a, subscapular layer not containing Malpighian corpuscles; a', inner stratum of cortex without Malpighian corpuscles ; B, boundary layer ; c, pa- pillary part next the boundary layer; 1, Bowman's capsule; 2, neck of cap- sule ; 3, proximal convoluted tube ; 4, spiral part; 5, descending limb of Henle's loop-tube ; 6, the loop itself; 7, 8, and 9, the ascending limb of Henle's loop-tube ; 10, the irregular tubule; 11, the distal convoluted tubule; 12, the first part of the collecting tube ; 13 and 14, larger collecting tube ; in the jtapilla itself, not represented here, the collecting tube joins others, and forms the duct. EXPLANATION OF PLATE CVI. Fig. 1. The relations of the parts within the thorax, seen from in front, the anterior wall of the thorax, the lungs, and the heart in position. Fig. 2. The same, seen from behind. The posterior wall of the thorax is removed, and the lungs pressed aside.