OEGANS OF SENSE. 592 »00§§C>Cx= (corneal corpuscles). The cornea is non-vascular in health, but is nourished by the colorless ingredients of the blood passing through the lamellar interspaces. (4) The posterior basement membrane (membrane of Descemet, membrane of Demours, posterior elastic lamina) {E, Fig. 127) is better defined than the anterior. It is a firm, elastic, resistant membrane, which is continuous from the corneal margin through a network of fibres (ligamentum pectinatum iridis) with the anterior basement membrane of the iris, as well as with the choroid and sclerotic coats. In the angle between the iris and the cornea just beyond the posterior basement membrane is a system of cavernous spaces (spaces of Fontana) which are occupied by the aqueous humor. (See Fig. 129.) (5) The posterior surface of the preceding membrane is covered with a single layer of epithelial cells {F, Fig. 127), which presents the same features as those in tiie other por- tions of the anterior chamber. Extending around the cornea, just in advance of the corneo-scleral junction, is a small canal called the canal of Schlemm. It is lined with epithelial cells, and is probably of the nature of a venous sinus. The nerves from forty to forty-five in number are derived from the ciliary nerves. They freely anas- tomose between the laminae, forming the primary plexus, which supplies for the most part the sub- stantia propria. From this a secondary plexus is formed, which lies beneath the epithelium, and sends delicate branches among the epithelial cells. Variation The curves of the cornea are subject to many minute variations which determine the nature of optical defects included under the term astigmatism. Infre- quently the cornea is conical in form. Remarks.—The cornea is of a singularly tough consistence, and serves, by this quality as well as by its thickness, the purpose of an admirable organ of protection to the iris. While frequently the seat of lesion, the result of blows or wounds from missiles moving with great force, it successfully resists the more common causes of injury. The laminated structure of the cornea is demon- strated in studying the effects of diseased action. In the vascular opacit}^ of the cornea (pannus), which so frequently accompanies granular lids, the anterior layers of the cornea, in the opinion of some observers, is the seat of a new growth of cells. Similar growths occur beneath the anterior epithelial membrane. Pus are sometimes seen lying between the laminte of the cornea, and constitutes the condition which has re- ceived the name of onyx. The laminae present vari- ous degrees of resistance to ulcerative action, as is well illustrated in the so called serpiginous ulcer. The aqueous humor pressing against a deep cor- neal ulcer can bulge forward the base (through the elastic quality of the posterior basement membrane) until it forms a convex swelling on the front of the eyeball. The marginal border of the cornea is subject to a form of fatty degeneration which has received the name of the arcus senilis. The cornea is nourished by imbibition of the plas- ma, or by the circulation of this fluid through the lymph-spaces. In abnormal conditions, bloodvessels are developed, as in pannus^ and may become large and abundant. The repair of injuries of the cornea is often followed by dense white opaque scars. In performing the operation of extraction of the crystalline lens for cataract, it is necessary to re- member that the opening through which the lens is to be passed must be a trifle larger than the lens itself, so that the size of the incision must be propor- tioned to the diameters of the lens. The margin of the cornea, as seen in the undissected eye, is over- lapped by the sclera. An incision through the sclera a short distance back of this margin will permit the knife to enter the anterior chamber. Such a section is selected in performing the first stage of the opera- tion for extraction of the lens as devised by Von Graefe. THE SCLERA. The Sclera (sclerotic coat) is the fibi'ous frame- work or envelope of the eyeball. The anterior part as exposed within the palpebral fissure, where it is called the " white of the eye," is covered with the conjunctiva. The rest of the ball is surrounded by Figs. 1 and 2. The structure of the cornea, as seen when magnified. Fig. 3. A vertical frontal section of the left eye and of the nasal chamber of the same side. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCV F 4. A semi-diagrammatic view of the stem of the brain, exliibiting the origin of tlie optic nerves.