769 THE REGION OF THE HEART, ETC, KOO^Ooo " The two nasal pits on the third day are shallow depres- sions with thickened borders complete all round. As the pits deepen on tiie f'ourtli day by the growtli upward of their rims, a break is observed in eacii rim in the form of a groove directed obliquely downward towards the cavity of tlie mouth."' The fronto-nasal process is on the third day a superficial projection caused by the bulging anterior extremities of the vesicles of the cerebral hemi- spheres ; on the fourth day it becomes more promi- nent, separates the nasal pits from each other, and aids in forming the inner wall of each. " Abutting on the outer side of each groove and so iielping to form the outer wall of eacli, lie the ends of the superior maxillary processes of tlie first visceral arch, which like the fronto-nasal process are increasing in size. By tiieir con- tinued growth, the groove is more and more deepened, and leading as it does from the nasal pit to the cavity of tiie mouth, may already be recognized as the rudiment of tiie passage of the posterior nares."^ Fis. 238. Fig. 239. Head-of human embryo at about the eud of the second month. Head of human embryo about the sixth week. The mouth is seen to be a space intervening between the maxillary and mandibulous plates and is lined with epiblast. It does not connect at first with the alimentary canal. Remarks.—The brain may be in a rudimentary con- dition, especially the cerebrum, which may remain smooth without hemispheres, olfactory bulb or basal ganglia. With this condition the ethmoid bone is undeveloped, the fronto-nasal process descends imper- fectly if at all, the maxillary jjlates fail to meet the premaxillse, and are separated by a median fissure of the upper lip. The eyes approximate, and may even merge into one. This malformation constitutes Cyclops. The maxillary plate of one side (commonly the left) may fail to unite with the corresponding pre-maxilla to constitute sintjle hai-eli]-!, or both may ' Foster and Balfour, 1. c. 145. 98 2 Ibid., 1. c. 146. fail to effect their accustomed union, forming as a result double harelip. Either of these may be asso- ciated with partial or complete cleft of the hard and the soft palate. The fronto-nasal process may ascend instead of descending, the maxillary plate may nearly unite by reason of the absence of the premaxillae, when a genu- ine harelip results, e., a cleft which answers to the space between the maxillary plates in the median line. Or the fronto-nasal process may descend and an opening exist on either side as a result of failure of the maxillary plate to unite with the process in question. The palpebral fissures may be continuous with the mucous membrane intervening between the cheeks and the sides of the external nose.'—The nose may be absent on one side of the face alone. This condition, which has received the name of Arhin- encephala unilaterah's, is associated with absence of the cribriform plate of the corresponding side. A pendulous tumor from the region of the internal canthus of the affected side has been described bv A. Selenkoft? The mandibular arches may infrequently fail to unite, and cyst-like spaces indicate the interspaces between the ends of the imperfect parts. Richet^ and J. Jardine Murray^ have described dermal crypts in the lines of defective growth of the jaws.—• The defects of the visceral arches upon the neck are exceedingly rare. They are indicated by the presence of fistulous tracts which open upon the sur- face at one or more points of the neck. It is inferred that such tracts are due to imperfect closure of the third or fourth visceral clefts. Cervical fistulas may communicate with the trachea and the oesophagus. They have been found both on the right and the left side, and at the median line. J. M. Duncan' de- scribes a case of a boy aged sixteen years, in whom a reddish spot less than a pin's head in size was situated above the insertion of the sternal portion of the right Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. A small quantity of fluid escaped daily. In infancy, milk trickled from the opening when the child was at the breast. The cond tion was held by the reporter to be a con- genital tistule connecting with the oesophagus. Since the visceral cleft between the mandibular and the hyoid arches extends upward to the ear, and 1 For additional case and figure, see R. Uarley, Trans. Obs. Soc, iv. 213. 2 Vil-chow's Archiv, 1884, xcv. 95. 3 ftaz. Hopitaux, 1861, 174. * Br. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., 1800, xxvi. 502. 6 Edin. Med. Journ., i., 1855, 42t;.