rarely found empty is proof of its frequent assump- 1 Medico-Chir. Trans., xvii. 361. THE RECTUM. ooogooc 657 of the racemose type, Immediately about the anus the glands are of the sebaceous variet3^ Bloodvessels. The arteries of the rectum are the superior hsemorrhoidal, from the inferior mesenteric; the middle haemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac or the internal pudic; and the inferior htemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. The first-mentioned is the most important of these vessels. It generally extends almost the entire length of the rectum; the middle btemorrhoidal artery anastomoses with it. The infe- rior haemorrhoidal is a small artery, and is for the most part distributed to the External Sphincter muscle and to the region of the anus. The veins join the internal hasmorrhoidal veins. Nerves. The nerves are derived from the superior hajmorrhoidal plexus. Lymphatics. The lymphatics join the lumbar glands. Variations—In some form of double monster with a single anus, eacli individual separately uses the orifice, i. e., two sigmoid flexures join the rectum. Remarks.—The three portions of the rectum above- mentioned serve as the best guides for the arrange- ment of its medical relations. The first portion, by reason of its peritoneal invest- ment, is in all its features an abdominal viscus. It is furnished with bloodvessels, nerves, and lympha- tics from the same source as the colon ; the colon presents no structural peculiarities not possessed by this portion of the rectum, except the longitudinal bands and sacculi. It is in this portion of the rectum that an occasional unusual development of the circu- lar fibres retards the descent of the feces from the sigmoid flexure. In examples of loss of power of both the Internal and External Sphincters, inconti- nence of feces need not, therefore, occur, since peri- odic evacuations of the lower rectum may be entirely controlled. That such control, however, is not the rule is unfortunately too true, as many sufferers from impairment of the office of the lower sphinc- ter can testify.—This portion of the rectum is very rarely the seat of organic stricture. According to II. Storer, ovarian cysts have been known to open into it. In a state of health the rectum is empty, and its walls are in contact. The feculent matter lodged in the sigmoid flexure is in great part controlled, as already seen, by the circular fibres there situated, and its escape thence announces the desire for defecation. The fact, however, that in practice the rectum is so 84 tion of the office of a reservoir for feces. The habit of constipation, while demanding of tlie rectum a new function, lays the foundation of tlie great majority of its diseases. The second (middle) portion of the rectum, since it is free from peritoneum at its lateral and posterior surfaces, is liable to compression from alterations in the loose connective tissue about it. Travers^ de- scribes a narrowing of this portion of the gut by dense fatty tissue, with subsequent ulceration into the peri- toneal cavity. The third portion is entirely free from peritoneum, and is in such intimate relations with the pelvic organs that its medical relations are of great impor- tance. The spaces behind and at the sides are occupied by delicate fat, which is continuous with the subcu- taneous fat of the trunk and thighs. The yielding character of this tissue enables the rectum to be dis- tended to a considerable distance without pressure upon any resisting point. In this way large quanti- ties of fecal matter may be retained with comparative impunitv. Prolonged irritation in the rectal walls will transmit to the connective tissue of the ischio- rectal fossa the exciting causes of inflammatory mis- chief, which, all things being equal, will exist in degrees of frequency proportionate to the violence of the initial trouble and the amount of extra-rectal fat. Persons who have large visceral organs, and whose abdominal walls and omentum are heavily loaded with fat, will often suffer from ischio-rectal abscess, due to portal congestion, and its resultant chronic rectal stasis. In the emaciated, an irritation is trans- mitted to the outside tissues from the partial or complete absorption of the fat. The physiological office accomplished by the latter tissue being in such patients absent, the distension of the bowel is accom- panied with more or less friction, which not infre- quently results in abscess. Thus, pus may form in the ischio-rectal fossa as the result of apparently opposite conditions, and in two classes of subjects whose physical appearances are strongly contrasted. The ischio-rectal fossa is occasionally the seat of extensive traumatic injury Thus, a male aged forty years inadvertently sat down upon a conical oil- feeder for machines, the nozzle of which was five inches long; the ischio-rectal fossa was penetrated to a distance of four-and-a half inches, and, as a conse-