THE LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. aOO^OOo 587 lower eyelid at three-quarters of a line.-—Emphysema of the lids may occur from fracture of the ethmoidal plate. A blow upon the face at the region of the eye will, as a rule, not involve the eye itself, but will be received upon the malar bone and the supra- orbital ridge. Thus an ecchymosis from this cause will be more apt to be located in the integuments about the eye than in the conjunctival or subcon- junctival surfaces. The lower eyelid sags in facial palsy. THE EYEBROWS. The Eyebrows are curved lines defined by num- bers of stout hairs situated between the regions of the forehead and of the eyes, and nearly correspond- ing to the supraorbital arches.^ The eyebrow is divided into two parts by the directions of the hairs composing it. The hairs of the median third of each brow tend to arrange them- selves in vertical or oblique lines, and may merge with those of the eyebrow of the opposite side. The hairs of the remaining two-thirds are nearly hori- zontal, and become less compactly disposed near the temple. Occasionally one or the other of these divi- sions may be absent. The median division would appear to answer to the pilose wart commonly present in quadrupeds, which is determined by the presence of terminal trophic filaments of the supraorbital nerve. The eyebrows serve to deflect the perspiration of the brow from the eyes, and to act, when shaggy, as a shade to the eye when the light falls from above. II. The lachrymal apparatus. The Lachrymal Apparatus (figs. 2 and 3, Plate XCVI.) consists of— The Lachrymal Gland. The Canaliculi. The Lachrymal Sac. The Lachrymo-Nasal Duct. The Lachrymal Gland is an almond-shaped body half an inch broad and three-quarters of an inch long, situated within the orbit towards its outer side. It is lodged within the lachrymal fossa of the frontal bone, and is protected in part by the external lateral process. It is obscurely lobulated, is of a pale reddish color, and presents a convex surface above, and a concave one beneath. It is fixed to the periosteum of the orbit by a few tendinous fibres, and is a race- ' Some writers define the eyebrows as composed, not only of the supraorbital liairs, but of skin, fat, subcutaneous tissue, and muscle-fibres. The term region of the eyebrow may be reserved for this locality. mose gland, closely resembling the true salivary gland, and for the most part inclosed within a thin capsule. The lachrymal gland is divided into two portions, the superior and the inferior. The sujjerior portion is much the larger and the more compact of the two. The inferior portion is lodged in the subconjunctival connective-tissue at the superior fornix conjunctivje. The ducts of the lachrymal glands are from ten to twelve in number, and open into the superior palpe- bral sinus at its outer third, and at a point about one-fourth of an inch above the tarsal cartilage. A few minute glands belonging to the lower division may open at or below the external angle. The arteries of the lachrymal gland are derived from the ophthalmic artery. The nerves arise from the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve.—Both ves- sels and nerves enter the glands from below and be- hind. The Canaliculi are little canals running from the edges of the eyelids to the lachrymal sac. Tliey are two in number, one for either lid. Each begins in the centre of the lachrymal papilla by a minute orifice, the punctum lachrymale, which is directed toward the eyeball. From this point the canaliculus abruptly widening descends at first and then passes forward and inward. The entire length of each canaliculus is about five lines, and its width two lines. The two canaliculi converge towards the lachrymal sac. The lower is somewhat the larger, and is placed nearly horizontally. As a rule they open separately between one and two lines below the summit of the sac, on the orbital side. Each canaliculus is lined by a pavement epithe- lium resting upon an abundant connective-tissue stroma, the whole being inclosed by the longitudinal fibres of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum muscle and the skin. The palpebral ligament gives strength to the outer wall of each canaliculus, and passes inward to form the internal palpebral ligament. The Lachrymal Sac is the expanded upper half of the lachrymo-nasal passage. It receives the canali- culi, and is continuous with the lachrymo-nasal duct below. It is of an oval shape, slightly widened above, and is lodged in the sulcus (lachrymal groove) between the crest of the lachrymal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxilla, just behind the insertion of the internal palpebral ligament. It measures six lines in length by about ten in width, but is narrower below. The lachrymal sac is straight along its inner border where it is in connection with