EMBRYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. 774 -■ ■ ■ c-<><>^<><><> — (3) IN ILLUSTRATION OF THE LAW OF REVERSION. A malformation or variation wh'cli exhibits fea- tures recalling the normal arrangement in some lower animal is said to illustrate the law of reversion. In the human subject reversions are confined to the class of vertebrata, and most commonly suggest the disposition of parts in terrestrial mammals. Many examples have been cited in this book of such rever- sional variations. It will be appreciated that a knowledge of compar- ative anatomy is essential to a correct interpretation of many unusual features in the anatomy of the body.— It is interesting to note that some variations in illus- tration of reversions (especially in the bones), are peculiar to the aged. While many of the instances of reversion are also those of gemmation, the last instance noted is in marked contrast to such similar- ity. In the aged, varieties of reversion may be ac- quired after all active life processes are arrested or in a state of pathological change. The presence of a large bone in the septum pectini- formis of the penis of many animals would lead the observer to seek for a rudiment of the bone in the septum as it exists in man. J. von Lenhossek' has described true osseous growths in the sheath of the cavernous bodies. (4) IN ILLUSTRATION OF THE LAW OF SYMMETRY. The disposition existing in the body for many parts to be arranged in pairs is capable of being modified. While geometrical symmetry does not exist between any of the organs of the body excep- tional contrasts in volume and proportion naturally come within the scope of teratoiogical studies. Under the operation of the law controlling the position of the organ may be conveniently placed all studies of transposition of the viscera. One of the objects of symmetry is to secure periods of rest in organs of the same nature. Thus the right kidney is at rest when the left is active, as has been observed hy Erichsen in studying cases of extrophy of the urinary bladder. It is of interest, according to O. Beumer,^ to note the increased liability of sub- jects of single kidney to calculus of the pelvis of the kidney. 1 Virohow's Archiv, Ix., 1874, 1 ; Taf. 1. 2 Ibid., 1878, 3-J4. Rates of Groioth as affecting the Origins and Be- havior of Aberrant Structures. The rates at which the difterent portions of the embryo grow determine, of course, the order of the appearance of the several parts. When a structure appears at a period earlier than is usual, the rate of growtli is said to be accele- rated; or, per contra, when later than usual, to be retarded. Examples of acceleration are often spoken of as precocity. Instances of acceleration and retar- dation of a gross character are rare; the order of the rate of eruption of the teeth, and the union of epiphy- sis to the shafts of bones may be taken as illustrations. Acceleration and retardation may explain some of the variations of bloodvessels (see pp. 387, 395). Retention illustrates a structure ordinarily transient in character, which remains as a part of the permanent structures of the embryo. Thus the ductus arteriosus remaining patulous at a time when, according to the average experience, it should become impervious, is an example of retention. Some of the characters of the skeleton of the adolescent sometimes will pers'st ■ in adult life when they constitute the so-called reten- tion of "juvenile character." In like manner the "infantile uterus" is sometimes found in the adult. Retention is also used to express the fact that a tooth which is retarded in development is retained entire within the structures of the jaws. The general subjects of aplasia as illustrated in the study of dwarfs, and of hyperi^lasia as illustrated in the study of giants, come under the head of accelera- tion, retardation, and retention. Structures retarded in development, or which re- main in vestigial form beyond the period at which they are normal, are apt to yield to diseased action. Instances of this tendency are noted in the diseases of the remains of the thymus gland ; in the diseases of the imperfectly developed or retarded wisdom-tooth ; in the diseases of the structures entering into spina b'fida and encephalocele; in the diseases of the im- perfectly descended testis; and in cystic tumors origi- nating in the hydatid of Morgagni. Since the pros- tate gland retains the rudiments of the terminal portions of the Milllerian ducts, as well as the associated matrix of the genital cord, the enlargement, of this gland at times, when the dominating control of the sexual element in nutrition is being removed, may be in like manner explained by an aberrant ac- celeration occurring in a vestigial structure.