THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 710 <:>00^<>0^ imbedded among the fibres of the Deep Transverse Perineal muscle. Each of the ducts is an inch long, and passes forward to open into the spongy portion at the bulb. The secretion of Cowper's glands lubri- cates the urethra with a viscid fluid after micturition. It may also contribute to the seminal fluid. Remarks.—The urethra can be divided for practi- cal purposes as follows: (a) the pendulous portion, {h) the membranous portion, (c) the prostatic portion. (a) Hie jje7iclulous portion.—The clinical history of this portion is for the most part that of the urethra and also that of the spongy body. The lacunte are often the sites at which a foreign body or a calculus may lodge. They may be also the seats of localized inflammation. (b) The memhranuus 2^ort{on of the urethra can be felt through the front wall of the rectum, when an instrument occupies the urethra. In the child the urethra is relatively smaller than it is in the adult. Peri-urethral abscess of this portion of the urethra is a not infrequent sequel of gonorrhoea. The effects of urethral stricture are here most noticeable. C. E. Isaacs^ found in a subject examined by him a sac, lined with epithelium resembling that of the urethra and bladder, capable of holding an ounce of fluid, and extending backward and upward from the membranous portion of the urethra between the bladder and the rectum as far as the reflection of the peritoneum. This sac communicated with the cavity of the abdomen by an orifice two lines in width. The peritoneum in the neighborhood was acutely in- flamed. When the bladder is distended, the viscus tends to ascend into the abdominal cavity, while the pro- static and membranous portions of the urethra become stretched and tense. In this condition of the parts, external violence, as blows on the perineum or fracture of the pubic bone, is liable to tear the mem- branous portion of the urethra transversely, or the incautious introduction of a bougie or catheter (par- ticularly if it be of small calibre) may easily create a false passage. Such a rapture always occurs beneath the symphysis pubis close to the prostate gland. The lining membrane may be divided while the outer coat escapes. (c) The prostatic portion.—The clinical interest here relates chiefly to the conditions of the bladder. The prostatic portion is compressed and distorted in hypertrophy of the prostate gland. It is opened by the knife in the perineal operation for lithotomy. 1 N. Y. Journ. of Med., July, 1858, 1. J. Hilton^ has found that a careful study of escaped urethral clots is of value in the diagnosis of urethral affections which are accompanied with hemorrhage. THE TESTICLE. Tlie Testicle is the organ which produces the sper- matic filaments. It is composed of the testicle proper, or body, and the epididymis. It is a flattened egg- shaped body, whose long axis is directed obliquely upward and outward, and the upper end inclined for- ward. The upper end of the testicle is covered with the head of the epididymis, its inner border by the re- mainder of that structure and the origin of the vas deferens. The remaining surfaces are covered by the tunica vaginalis. The testicle measures one and-a-half to two inches in length, one in width, one-and-a-quarter antero-pos- teriofly.^ It weighs from four to seven drachms. The main covering of the testicle is called the tunica alhuglnea. It is composed of pure fibrous tis- sue, and measures half aline in thickness. The tunica albuginea is evenly distributed, but receives a marked accession in thickness beneath the head of the epidi- dymis where it is projected into the parenchyma of the testis. The point of reflection is termed the medi- astinum testis, and is usually described as though it were a reflection of the tunica albuginea. It is com- posed, however, of all the structures passing in or out of the testicle; viz.: Tunica albuginea, the pampini- form plexus of veins, and the arteries. It is of a pris- matic form, and of a spongy consistence. It is situ- ated at the upper end of the internal border. From its lower portion numerous minute diverging layers of fibrous tissue (trabeculas) pass into the testis, and serve as imperfect septa between the spaces which lodge the proper gland-substance. The inner layer of the tunica albuginea is covered with a delicate network of bloodvessels (tunica vas- culosa, pia mater testis), which extends along the tra- beculse. The epididymis is a portion of the excretory appa- ratus of the testicle which terminates in the vas deferens. It is of an elongated figure, situated at the upper end and internal border of the body of the testicle. The upper end, the head or globus major, is rounded in section, while the lower part, the tail or globus minor, as well as the intermediate portion, ' Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1867, 9. 2 The size of the testicle differs at different times. Slight varia- tion in size Henle attributes to the condition of the connective tissue stroma.