677 TUE PERITONEUM. ^~c-o^<x>« patient did not exhibit at any time symptoms of intestinal obstruction. Tiie cause of death was typhoid fever.^ (2) The suh-ccecal fossa The sub-csecal fossa is a pocket situated behind and below tiie ca;cum. Very often it is but a shallow depression, but it may be as long as one's fingers, when it is directed upward between the layers of the meso- colon. It is stated by Luschka that hernia may be situated at this position. (3) The.ileo-ccecal fossa.—The ileo-ca»cal fossa lies be- tween the opposed sides of the ciEcum and the end of the ileum. Its size is variable, but generally is that of the thumb- nail.^ It was reserved for Schott' to direct attention to the fact tiiat this pouch is sometimes the seat of a cystic growtii, which, by pressure upward, may occlude the ileo-cascal aperture, and induce fatal intestinal obsti-uction. (4) Tlie inter-sigmoid fossa.—This is the name given by Lusciika to the small pouch developed from the left leaf of the meso-colon of the sigmoid flexure. It is inconstant and of variable size. It appears to be the least important of the peritoneal fossiB. (y) The recto-vesical fossa lies between tiie rectum and the bladder in the male. It is about four inches above the anus. Variations The meso-rectal fold.—The mass forming the body of a pi'olapsed rectum is often tilted forward or to one side, and the intestinal aperture assumes the form of a ' For other cases with figures see Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., 18ti5, 139 ; and Peacock, ibid., ii. 60. According to R. .7. Anderson, the fossa dnodenalis is limited above by tlie posterior layer of the transverse meso-colon, inter- nally (medianly) by the duodenum, and bounded at the left by a sharp falciform marginal fold. The aorta lies medianly and be- hind. It may have an extent of two inches from above downward, and an inch in depth. In the fold mentioned the left colic artery may be found, and according to some writers the inferior mesen- teric vein. The vein last mentioned may also be crossed by this artery below the fold. From one to two inches of intestine lie within the fossa. The fossa is caused (in the language of the same writer) as fol- lows : " At a time when the liver is large and occupies both hypo- chondria, the alimentary canal is mesial (/. e. in the middle line). Wlien the liver becomes smaller (relatively), and comes to occupy the right hypochondriam, the pyloric end of the stomach and the duodenum are drawn to the right, the upper and lower transverse parts of the duodenum being thus produced. The peritoneum in the neighborhood of tlie duodeno-jejunal flexure is also drawn to the right side ; and in this way, in consequence of the loose tissue beneath the posterior abdominal peritoneum in that situation, the fossa and the plica duodeno-jejunalis are produced. The move- ment of the colon does not compensate for the movement of the duodenum, but rather tends to throw into relief the prominent border of the fold."—Journ. Anat. and Phys. 1878, 237. Luschka, Ueber die peritoiiaeale Umliiillung des Blinddarmes und iiber die Fossa ileo-c;ecalis, Virchow's Archiv, vol. xxi., 1861, 285, Taf. iv. f. 3. * Beitrage zur Anatomie der Fossa ileo-caecalis, Wochenblat der Zeitschrift der k. k. Gesellscliaft der Aertze in Wien, 1862, No. 44. fissure, receding from the surface of the tumor, owing to the traction exerted upon it by the meso-rectum. A congenitally misplaced kidney may have a distinct meso-nephron.' An anomaly, recalling the period in foetal life at whicli the small and large intestines are arranged near tiie median line, has been recorded by Gruber,^ in which the large and small intestines of an adult were held in complete connection by a common mesentery. Appended to tlie peritoneum here and tliere are peduncu- lated tags or pouches of peritoneum containing fat. These are called appendiculce epiploicce, and though common along the course of the transverse colon, are of unknown function. The attachments of the peritoneum ivhich have clinical significance.—The degree of firmness of attachment oi the peritoneum to the dift'erent organs varies. The membrane is loosely attached to the organs in the retro-peritoneal space, but firmly to the intestines. It is capable of undergoing marked changes of relation. Thus the gravid uterus, ovarian tumors, and hernial protrusions will appropriate peritoneum from adja- cent points,—-the uterus and ovaries from the broad ligaments and their related folds; the hernial sacs from the inguinal fossas and bladder. Tlie degree ol this appropriation depends, it would seem probable, upon the rate of growth in the mass. Thus a rapidly growing tumor, or rapidly distending viscus, will adapt to itself the loose membrane from adjacent parts. When the growth or viscus increases in size slowly, the peritoneum may grow jpan j;«ssM with the other elements of new structure. In a greatly distended urinary bladder the fundus may reach to within one inch and a half of the ensiform cartilage. The re- flexion of the peritoneum from the fundus to the abdominal wall in such a case would be within an inch of the umbilicus. In rupture of the uterus the peritoneum will fre- quently resist the direct efll:ects of the lesion ; and hemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity need not result from this accident. In the operation of ovariotomy the peritoneum may be easily stripped from the ovarian cysts when these growths have simply appropriated as coverings > A. E. Durham, Guy's Hosp. Rep., iv. 1860, 420. 2 Beitrage zur den Bildungshemmungen der Mesenterien ; Archiv f. Anat. Phys. und Wissenschaft. Med., 1862, 588, Taf. XV. fig. 1, 2. See, also, on the presence of a common mesentery for the jejunum and ileum, and the initial half of the large intes- tine, accompanied with lateral transposition of the viscera, Ueber das Vorkommen eines Mesenterium commune fiir das Jejuno-ileum irnd grossere Anfangshalfte des Dickdarms, etc. Ibid., xiv. 1865, 558.