THE UTERUS. 717 • coo^ocx.^ tlie fimbrias, and, at the inner end, the swelling of the tube, owing to angular spurs, forms valve-like bendings, which shut oft' communication with the viterus. THE UTERUS. The Uterus (figs. 1 and 2, Plate CTX.) is a hollow muscular sac developed upon the female genital tract between the Fallopian tubes and the vagina. It is the organ of gestation and parturition. Its descrip- tion will be based upon the organ as seen in the virgin and young adult. It is situated in the cavity of the true pelvis, be- hind and above the bladder, in front of the rectum, and above the vagina. It lies in the median line, with a slight inclination fi'om right to left. The uterus is so situated that a line drawn from the upper margin of the symphysis pubis to the lumbo-sacral articula- tion will intersect the upper margin of the fundus of the uterus. Another line drawn from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the fourth sacral articulation will intersect the uterus on the lines of the upper limits of the vagina. The uterus, when studied apart from its attach- ments, is seen to be of a pyriform figure, which is com- pressed from before backward. It is slightly concave at the sides, but convex upon its anterior and poste- rior surfaces, the latter being the more convex of the two. The organ weighs from seven to twelve drachms, and measures, according to Quain, three inches in length, two in breadth at its upper and wider parts, and nearly an inch in thickness. The uterus is divided into the fundus^ the hody^ and the cervix. The fundus (base) is represented in that part above a line placed below the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. In the virgin the fundus is nearly straight, but in the adult who has borne children it is convex upward. The body extends from the fundus to the beginning of the neck. It is usually represented as one-half the length of the uterus. Its outer surface is con- tinuous with the neck, but within the interior the two are separated by a constriction called the isthmus or internal os. Both the fundus and neck are in direct relation with the peritoneum, which embraces them on all sides. Although it is exact to describe the body and fundus separately, the latter term will be selected in describing these portions of the organ as contrasted with the cervix. The cervix (neck) is the remaining portion. It measures from six to eight lines in length, and is nearly cylindrical in form. Its lower fourth or fifth lies free within the vagina. " The degree of this projection varies greatly. Thus in some specimens the vaginal portion forms a conical mass projecting an inch and a half into the vagina, while in others there is hardly any variation, the OS uteri being almost flush with the vaginal roof."' It here forms two lips, an anterior and posterior, about a transverse slit, called the external os or os tincae. The anterior lip is the thicker and shorter of the two, but, in consequence of the inclined position of the uterus, lies lower in the vagina. The upper two-thirds of the neck on its anterior surface are united to the bladder by a thin layer of connective tissue. This relation, since it determines the general position of the uterus, explains many of its deviations in form. Upon its posterior surface the neck above the vaginal portion is covered with peritoneum. This is less intimately adherent than to the body, and per- mits a quantity of fatty connective tissue to intervene. At the point immediately above the vaginal embrace, this tissue is pronounced, contains a few veins, and makes a fold in the peritoneum. Fig. 194. Antero-posterior (sagittal) section of tlie pelvic oi-gans of the adult female. The uterus is gravi^ two mouttis. 1, Uterus; 2, vagina; 3, vulva; 4, sym- physis pubis ; 5, anus ; 6, perineum ; 7, bladder. The sides of the neck and body seen from in front present a concave surface, which accommodates the bloodvessels as they enter and escape from the uterus. ' Barnes, loc. cit., p. 233.