THE GENTTO-URIN AKY ORGANS. 724 OOO^OOo the hymen, or its margin of insertion, is the exact limit of the vagina at the margin of the vaginal ori- fice. Close to the anterior or npper margin of the orifice is the urethra. At the sides of the orifice are the lower ends of the nymphas, but there is quite a considerable interval between them and the vaginal orifice. Remote from the nymphfe, and closely ad- joining the posterior margin of the vaginal orifice, are the openings of the glands of Diiverney (glands of Bartholin). These openings are in the fossa navicu- laris. The last-named fossa lies between the orifice of the vagina and the commissure or anterior marginal portion of the perineum. The labia majora are not united posteriorly, but form separate pieces parallel to and touching one another, at the same time they end somewhat abruptly." The effect of the first birth upon the above arrange- ment is the following:— "The hymen is partially or completely destroyed. If the orifices of the ducts of Duverney's glands are not discernible, it is impossible to say exactly where any part of the vaginal orifice is, except when dis- tinct remains of the hymen are seen. The distinction of the fourchette or posterior margin of the vulvar outlet from the margin of the vaginal orifice cannot now be made with any exactness. The labia majora have shrivelled, and the position of their projecting posterior parts is ill defined. If in a multipara the head is obstructed by the undilatability of the orifice of exit from the woman's body, then it cannot be said that the vaginal orifice is rigid and obstructing, for that part is not recognizable. It is the vulvar outlet that by its undilatability impedes progress." THR URETHRA IN THE FEMALE. The Female Urethra' (figs. 2, 3, Plate CIX.; figs. 192, 193) opens within the vestibule about midway between the clitoris and the hymen. The urethra is a small slit-like passage about one-and-a-half inch long, and presents a diameter of three to four lines; it is .somewhat wider toward the bladder. Its mucous membrane is of a whitish color, and is thrown into a number of longitudinal plications. The membrane receives the orifices of a number of muciparous folli- cles which lie for the most part in the sulci between the folds. The minute anatomy of the female urethra reveals a structure recalling that of the male urethra. Thus, it possesses a scaly epithelium becoming tessel- ' The account of the urethra naturally follows that of the bladder. The description of the female urethra, since its relations are chiefly with the vulva, is here introduced under the general heading of the female organs of generation. lated toward the bladder. Beyond this is a layer rich in veins, and beyond this between the layers of the triangular ligament it is embraced by the Compressor Urethras muscle. It differs from the male canal, how- ever, by the increased quantity of elastic tissue. M. Merle' states tliat, owing to the subjacent; connec- tive tissue being lax in tiie female, the urethra is prone to prolapsus in inflammatory engorgement sucli as is seen in gonorrlioja. Tiius, tliis condition is based upon an anatomi- cal I'elation distinguishing the female uretiira. According to J. Englisch,^ the mucous membrane of the uretln-a exhibits larger glands upon tlie posterior and lateral walls than elsewhere. These glands are liable to cystic dis- tension in the foetus, leading at times to prenatal occlusion of the urethra, and retention of urine. The etiology of the cysts " lies in the peculiar disposition manifested in the last months of foetal lii'e to the adhesion of superficial layers, which in males shows itself in flie closure of the sinus j)Ocu- laris. The cyst may be often discovered projecting from the urethral orifice." The short and simple tract of the female urethra, and the yielding character of the tissues surrounding it, enable the surgeon to examine the intei'ior of the bladder throuorh this passage more readily than is possible with the male. For- eign bodies and calculi are removed with relative ease. Stricture of the female urethra for evident reasons is an insig- nificant affection as compaied with that of the male urethi'a, and is never induced by gonorrli«a, but invariably by the results of violence, more particularly following injuries of the })arts in labor.'—The urethra is elongated during par- turition to twice or three times its ordinary lengtli. It is at such times necessary to use a long elastic catheter to reach the bladder.* THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The Female Perineum includes the structures occu- pying the inferior pelvic outlet. It constitutes the true pelvic floor, and is a thick fleshy diaphragm which presents inferiorly a convex, and superiorly a concave surface. The plane of the floor is inter- rupted by the vesical, vaginal, and rectal outlets, lines extending from which serve to limit the subdi- visions of the perineum. The female perineum is divided into a pubic and a sacral segment. The imhic segment consists of that portion which extends from the symphysis pubis to the anterior 1 Arohiv. Gen. de Med., Avril 28, 1867. 2 Wien. Med. Jahrbuch., iii. 373; tr. in N. Y. Med. Journ., xx. 653. 3 T. B. Curling, Lancet, i. 634. < For an elaborate description of tlie urethra in the female witli figures, see M. Schiiller, Virohow's Arohiv, 1883, cxiii. 405.