SUPEEFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY, 742 and tlie Extensor Carpi Uluaris when the hand is turned downward, while the thumb is held up. A knife thrust inward beneath the styloid process of the ulna will enter the wrist-joint, but one thrust inward below the styloid process of the radius will strike the scaphoid bone. The slcin is thin, delicate, and smooth over the an- terior aspect of the joint, but is hairy and thicker, and less mobile over the posterior. THE HAND. The Hand embraces that portion of the superior extremity which is placed distally to the wrist. The sides of the wrist expand abruptly to be continuous Avith those of the hand. The hand is divided into The Body of the Hand. The Fingers. The Body of the Hand presents an anterior surface, a dorsal surface, and two borders, the radial and the ulnar. The Anterior Surface (palmar surface, the palm), is quadrangular in form, and is slightly lai'ger than the dorsal. On this surface can be felt, in addition to the muscles named below, the Adductor Pollicis, the Abductor Indicis, and the tendons of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. It is subdivided into the thenar and hypothenar eminences, the transverse pad, and the " hollow of the hand." The thenar eminence (ball of the thumb) is the name given to that eminence which corresponds to the Abductor Pollicis, 0|jponens Pollicis, and Flexor Brevis Pollicis muscles. At the proximal base of the thenar eminence can be felt the tubercle of the scaphoid bone and the ridge of the trapezium. The sesamoid bones of the thumb can also be' distinguished in some sub- jects. The hypothenar eminence is that eminence over the Abductor Minimi Digiti, the Flexor Brevis Minimi' Digiti, and the Opponens Minimi Digiti muscles. To the inner side of the base the pisiform bone can be felt. —The thenar and hypothenar eminences sometimes receive the name of the heel of the hand. The skin uniting the two eminences overlies the deep annular ligament. The transverse pad of the palm is a thick cushion of skin and subcutaneous fat which answers to the position of the head of the metacarpal bones, and the proximal portions of the phalanges of the first row. In front at the " interdigital spaces" the transverse pad enters into the composition of the web of the fingers. The form of the tveh of the fingers is maintained by the superficial transverse ligament. The transverse pad is marked opposite the web by three small pulp-like elevations, which answer, during forced flexion of the fingers, to the interdigital spaces between the second and third phalanges. The pad becomes flattened in extension of the fingers, but is conspicuous, and serves to deepen the hollow of the hand, in flexion. The hollow of the hand is that triangular depres- sion whose apex is directed proximately, and which intervenes between the thenar eminence, the hypo- thenar eminence, and the transverse piad. The Dorsal Surface of the body of the hand is bounded proximally by the wrist, and distally by the web of the fingers. Oa this surface can be felt the shafts and heads of the metacarpal bones, the positions of the Dorsal Interossei muscles, and the tendons of the Extensor Communis Digitorum muscle. The sliin of the body of the hand is thin over the thenar eminence, where it has supplied the flap in rhinoplastic operations, but thick elsewhere on the anterior aspect, while it is uniformly thin over the dorsal.—The skin of the palm is not subject to superficial abscess, as is that of the dorsum. Bursaj are not rare over the dorsal aspect of the metacarpo- pharyngeal articulations. The skin-creases. The motions of the hand, which enter into the study of the skin-creases, are flexion and extension of the hand on the wrist and the fingers on the hand; and abduction and adduction of the thumb on the body of the hand. The first crease lies at the junction of the thenar eminence and the hollow of the hand, and forms an oblique curved line, whose convexity is directed inward. It is determined by the motion of the metacarpal bone of the thumb toward the palm. The second crease is transverse, and answers in position to the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation of the index finger. It is pro- nounced at the radial border of the body of the hand, but becomes faint and disappears as it reaches the hypothenar eminence. The third crease is occasioned by the flexion of the third, fourth, and fifth meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations. It is pronounced at the ulnar border of the body of the hand, and termi- nates at the position of the head of the second meta- carpal bone.—The convexity of the superficial palmar arch lies, as a rule, in the space between the two transverse creases.—A number of secondary, skin- creases mark the palm. Several of them lie in groups of small oblique lines, which are seen upon the ulnar side of the hypothenar eminence. One of these inter-