THE TRACHEA. o-oo^ooo- certain sounds either for speech, or for the creation of musical tone, and need not be analyzed in this place. QEdema of the larynx differs in its physical features whether it be above or below the glottis. The differ- ences in the mucous surfaces already mentioned are of great influence in the localization of this disease. As defined by clinical writers the supra-'jlottic oedema is the more frequent of the two forms. The swelling is pronounced, ordinarily involves the false vocal cords, and is accompanied by submucous infiltration. It has sometimes been described as hanging down lilve a bag, so as completely to fill the chink of the glottis. Infra-glotlic oedema^ a rarer affection, is accompanied by relatively little swelling, owing to the more in- timate association here existing between the mucous membrane and the cricoid cartilage. Annular masses of mucus may be formed in this condition of the larynx.—Moxon' describes an eversion of the lining of the ventricle of the larynx. At first sight it appeared to be a tumor hanging down over one of the vocal cords, semi-elliptical in shape, and attached above in the anterior half of the ventricle of the larynx. On examination it was found that the everted portion could easily be put up into the usual position of the sacculus of the larynx, and when so placed it appeared as the sacculus laryngis. HyrtP describes a delicate fold extending from the epi- glottis to the hyoid bone. Bloodvessels.—The larynx is supplied with branches of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. The mucous membrane is supplied by the superior and inferior laryngeal arteries. The Crico-Thyroid, the Aryteno-Epiglottideus, and the Tliyro-Epiglottideus are supplied by the superior laryngeal, the fiirst-named by a separate branch which is called by some writers the crico-thyroid branch. The Thyro-Arytfcnoidei, tlie Crico-Aryta3noidei, and the Arytajnoidei are sup- plied by both the superior laryngeal and the inferior laryngeal arteries. The veins of the mucous membrane and of the muscles of the larynx are tributary to the superior thyroid and inferior thyroid veins, and thence to the internal jugular. Nerves.—The nerves of the larynx are derived from the pneumogastric. The mucous membrane and the Crico-Thyroid muscles are supplied by the superior laryngeal nerve, and the remaining muscles by the inferior laryngeal. ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1868, 65. See, also, G. M. Lefferts, Am. Jouni. Med. Sci., 1878. 2 Sitzuiigsberichte, Wien. Acad. xxv. 88 6s9 }atirs.—The lymphatic tissue of the larvnx is abundant (F.g. 186). The lymphatic vessels pass to the deep lymphatic glands of the neck. THE TRACHEA. The Trachea (fig. 2, Plate CIV., Plate CV., Plate CVI.) is that portion of the respiratory tract which is placed between the larynx and the bronchi. The trachea is a nearly cylindrical tube broader below than above, and composed of from sixteen to twenty C-shaped cartilages which are separated by narrow intervening spaces. The cartilages define the trachea in front and at the sides; behind, the tube is formed by a flat yielding menibrane which unites the ends of the cartilages. The trachea measures from four to four-and-a-half inches in length, three-fourths to one inch in width. It is somewhat more capacious in the male than in the female. Relations—The trachea extends from the fifth cervical vertebra to the third or the fourth or even to the fifth dorsal vertebra. The upper two-thirds of the tube lie in the region of the neck, and the lower third in tlie thorax. While lying in the middle line of the neck and of the trunk the tracliea is freely movable from side to side. The trachea is closely invested in a delicate but resisting fascia (fascia laryngo-trachealis, fascia thyro-trachealis). The relations are consecutively grouped as follows: the cervical and the thoracic. The cervical relations. In front, covering the second, third, and fourth rings, lie the isthmus of the thy- roid body, the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid muscles, the deep cervical fascia, some intercommunicating branches of tiie anterior jugular veins, the inferior thyroid vein, and occasionally the arteria thyroidea ima. Near the sternum the trachea is crossed by the innominate artery. At tiie sides lie tiie lobes of the thyroid body and the common carotid artery, the inferior thyroid artery, and tlie recurrent laryngeal nerve. Behind lies the oesophagus The thoracic relations. The trachea lies in the middle mediastinum be- tween the pleura;. In front lie the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid muscles and the manubrium of the sternum. Behind, the trachea rests upon the oesophagus, though this tube inclines to pass to the left side. On the right side tlie trachea is nearer the pleura than toward the left, while on the left it is nearer the left carotid artery than is the right near the right carotid artery. The pneumogastric* -nerves lie on either side of the trachea. The trachea divides into the bronchi about opposite the s[)ine of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and opposite tlie junction of the manubrium and gladiolus. Structure The C-like cartilages are flat in front, and are more or less imbedded in fibrous tissue. They are con- vex beliind, and are here conspicuous wdien seen from witiiin the trachea. The first cartilage is often broader than tlie