624 OEGANS OF SENSE. • c-oC^OOo forming plications. These are, as a rale, most marked in such parts as are emptied of food and are here transient, but in some cases they are perma- nent. Among the last-named plications may be men- tioned the valvulse conniventes, and the spiral folds in the cystic duct of the liver. The folds of the rec- tum may also be classed in this category. Exact knowledge of the relation existing between such or similar depositions of mucous membrane, and local pecAiUarities as expressed in diseased action^ is meagre, but is susceptible of being formulated as follows: Wherever the mucous membrane is loosely applied to subjacent parts, inflammatory effusions occur therein with ease and rapidity. Hence the sud- den swellings of the face which accompany inflam- matory processes within or about the cheek (see also p. 251); the enormous size of the parts and their distortion in inflammation of the tongue; the dan- ger of inflammation at the base of the tongue and aperture of the glottis by cedema and resultant nar- rowing of the aperture. On the other hand, inti- mate union of the mucous membrane to deeper parts prevents inflammatory swelling. If these conclu- sions be accepted, it is evident that the grade or dura- tion of the morbid process cannot be estimated by the amount of effusion.—It is probable that where a serous membrane such as the peritoneum covers the mucous tract it acts as a preventive to submucous infiltration. The mucous membrane is firmly attached to the alveolar processes of the upper and lower jaws, where, by its intimate union with the fibrous tissue about the bone, it forms the gum-tissue^ or the muco- periosteum^ by which term is meant a membrane com- bining the characteristics of mucous membrane and periosteum (see p. 621). The mucous membrane pre- sents somewhat similar features where it lies in contact with cartilage, as in the nasal septum, the free por- tion of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and the larynx, and, indeed, along the entire respiratory tract below the structure last named. The term miico-perichondriiLm is appropriately used in relation to these structures. The parts covered by muco-peri- osteum are nourished through the membrane itself. As bone will perish when its periosteum is removed or inflamed, so bone denuded of muco-periosteum or covered with inflamed muco-periosteum will become necrosed. (See Kemarks on the maxilla and the mandible, pp. 135 and 140, infra ; also, on the inferior turbinated bone, p. 137.) The muco-perichondrium is less exactly associated with the nutrition of carti- lage than is the muco-periosteum with that of bones, yet in one striking example, namely, in the muco- perichondrium covering the epiglottis and the aryte- noid cartilages, it is recognized that prolonged in- flammatory states will excite ulceration and death of the parts beneath. Wherever mucous membrane covers bf)ne or cartilage, it is apt to possess a less degree of mobility than upon yielding structures such as the intestine. On the hard palate, the membrane is united by small fibrous trabeculfe to the ridges of the bony surface, the interspaces being occupied with racemose glands. At the roof of the pharynx, the membrane is fixed to the fibrous tissue of the base of the skull. Upon the soft palate, it is more firmly adherent anteriorly, where it is in contact with gland-tissue, than posteriorly, where it lies over muscle-tissue. Upon the tongue, where it constitutes the cortex ot that organ, it is also closely attached. The mucous membrane of the alimentary canal belongs to the same variety as that of the respiratory apparatus, since the latter is seen, by its relation as well as its development, to be an offshoot from the former. Sharpey has given the name gastro-pneumo- nic to this variety to distinguish it from the genito- urinary mucous membrane. The gastric portion of the tract becomes function- ally distinct from the pneumonic portion at the lower portion of the pharynx. Above this region all the parts, namely, the mouth and nose, are related equally to the mechanism of digestion and respiration. THE TONGUE. The Tongue (fig. 1, Plate XCIII.) is a symmetrical muscular organ, lying on the floor of the mouth, and designed to aid in the prehension of food. It is acces- sory also to the sense of taste and the production of articulate sounds. The tongue, when at rest, is of an ovoidal figure (fig. 4, Plate XCIX.), whose base is abruptly truncated. When divided transversely, it is seen to be composed of a cortical and a medullary portion. The cortical portion (cortex) is complete at the dorsum and at the sides, while absent beneath. It re- presents the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, which has become thickened upon the tongue for special purposes. The medullary portion con- stitutes the bulk of the organ, and is composed of interlacing bundles of the Palato-Glossus, the Stylo- Glossus, and the Genio-Glossus muscles. The dorsum of the tongue, which embraces the