THE SUPEKFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ABDOMEN. 735 000^00= ■ the ^jeneral surface of the "back," but is less sharply defined than either the posterior cervical region or the loin. It may be said to lie posterior to the axillary lines; below a line drawn transversely across the neck beneath the seventh cervical spinous eminence; and above a line drawn transversely one-half inch beneath the free ends of the tenth ribs. It will be observed that neither of the lines last named is exact, since the upper line does not strictly corre- spond to the position of the clavicle, while the lower omits the eleventh and twelfth ribs. But the twelfth rib at least cannot be constantly felt from behind. The parts that can be distinguished in the back are the contour of the Erector Spina3 muscles; the groove-like depression (spinal furrow) answering to the spinous eminences lying between these muscles; the fleshy eminence due to the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Major muscles as these muscles lie along the axillary border of the scapula; the spine and angle of the scapula; and the depression for the attachment of the lower set of Trapezia] fibres to the bone last named. The shin on the back of the chest is thick and brawny. It is loosely connected to the muscles and fascia, as a result of which peculiarity a ball, or other missile, lodged beneath the skin of the back, pos- sesses a tendency to gravitate, and may be found lying just above the sacrum. Bedsores often occur on the back over the position of the scapuhe, and at the lower median portion. The pressure of burdens may cause burste to appear over the dorsal spine and the Supra-Spinatus muscles. For "landmarks" of the scapula and the vertebral column, see p. 172 and p. 166. The axilhi^ (armpit), while belonging in part to the anterior and in part to the posterior thoracic region, is usually treated of as a separate region. It consti- tutes that triangular space whose summit (apex) lies at the junction of the skin over the second rib with the median surface of the arm ; whose sides are formed respectively by the Pectoralis Major and the Latissi- mus Dorsi and Teres Major muscles; and whose base answers to an imaginary line uniting these muscles. The lower border will of course vary in different sub- jects. In a general way it may be said to answer to the line of the fourth rib. The axilla is best defined when the arm is elevated. It is here that the intercostal spaces are readily out- lined, since the ribs do not lie so near one another as ' It is necessary to remeniher that the term restricted to the siiperliuies. ■;7/fi" is here at points lower down, e. g., between the seventh and tenth ribs, where they may be almost, if not quite, contiguous. Lymphatic glands when moderately enlarged can be felt beneath the skin in the armpit. They are at this place frequently engorged in car- cinoma of the mammary gland and in inflammation of the lymphatic vessels of the arm. The shin of the axilla is mobile and furnished at the summit with a clump of long hairs. Both sweat- glands and sebaceous glands are well developed in this region. THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ABDOMEN. The trunk between the chest and the pelvis is con- veniently divided into two portions which are com- parable to the anterior and posterior regions of the neck and chest. The anterior region forms the "an- terior abdominal wall;" and the posterior region the "loin." The Anterior Abdominal Wall. The Loin. The Anterior Abdominal WalP extends from the lower margin of the thorax to tlie iliac crest and the line of Poupart's ligament. Laterally the region ex- ' This surface will correspond to the antero-lateral region of Angers and Tillaux, and the two regions of Richet, the anterior and the lateral region of the abdomen. Clinical reports rarely locate conditions in any other region than those outlined on p. 73(5. A natural subdivision of the anterior wall of the abdomen might be based i>pon the following statements: — The integument of the anterior surface of the abdomen is con- tinuous with that of the inguinal regions, the pudendal regions, and the median surfaces of the thighs by the distribution of some of the anterior branches of the dorsal and lumbar nerves among the last named, the ilio-hypogastric, the ilio inguinal, and the genito-crural nerves. From the position of the umbilicus up- ward it is controlled by the intercostal nerves, from the eighth to the ninth inclusive ; while below the umbilicus it is controlled by the tenth to the twelfth inclusive, together with the anterior branches of the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-ingniual nerves.—The umbilicus is situated on a line which answers to the middle and most constant of the inscriptions of the Rectus muscle, and about on a second line which answers to the production downward and for- ward of the eleventh rib. When it is remembered that the ductus venosus extends from the umbilicus upward to the liver, and that the bladder and urachus, from the pubis upward toward the umbilicus, it must follow that the best division of the abdominal wall would be into two portions, a supi-a-umbilicnl and an infra- umbilical, and that the subdivision of these regions should be, along the oblique lines which correspond to the position of the floating ribs and of the nerve-tracts of the abdomen.—The propor- tions of the foetal liver near term would bring this most bulky of the organs of the upper belt well down to the position of the umbilicus, and in the foetus at term, at least, the abdomen might be divided with propriety into an upper and lower belt, the middle being discarded.—In the arrangement of the regions, the plan of Bright (Guy's Hosp. Rep., ii. 1837, 432) has been followed in the text, and the language of this writer, as far as was practicable, used.