614 ORGANS OF SENSE. The middle layer (lamina propria) is structureless, and forms the bulk of the wall of the canal. It is thinnest opposite the points of fixation to the peri- osteum. The inner layer (epithelial layer) is tessellated, with an occasional papillar aggregation. Hence the sec- tion of the layer presents a wavy appearance. In the ampuUiB, the posterior or the fixed wall sends inward a partition-like projection (crista acus- tica), which answers to the place of termination of the nerve-filaments. The structure of the utricle and of the saccule in no wise differs from that of the semicircular canals and of the ampullaj. Fig. 146. A diagrammatic plaa of tbe labyrinth, a, saccule; 6, entrance of nerve- fllaments to saccule; e, aquseductus vestibuli; d, utricle; «, entrance of nerve-filaments to utricle; /, ampulla of horizontal semicircular canal; h, cupola; i, ampulla of the vertical transverse semicircular canal: It, ampulla of the vertical longitudinal semicircular canal; I, opening of the canal of union of the vertical longitudinal and vertical transverse semicircular canals. CANALIS REUKIENS. The Canalis Reuniens is a small passage connect- ing the saccule with the cochlear canal. BECESSUS LABYRINTHI. The Recessus Labyrinthi is a delicate tube which lies within the aquaeductus vestibuli, and which con- nects with the saccule and with the utricle. It is lined with epithelium and ends blindly (saccus endo- lymphaticus) in the dura mater near the orifice of the aqugeductus vestibuli. The Endolyraph. The endolymph is the lymph- fluid which occupies the membranous labyrinth. It fills all portions of the main central cavity, the semi- circular canals, the cochlear canal and the recessus labyrinthi. The Perilymph. The perilymph is a lymph-fluid which occupies the space between the membranous labyrinth and the walls of the bony labyrinth and the cochlear scalfe, namely, the entire cochlea with the exception of the cochlear canal. It communicates by the aquaeductus cochlete with the subarachnoid lymph-space. THE COCHLEAR CANAL. The anterior portion of the saccule contracts ab- ruptly to form a small canal which has received the name of the carialis reuniens. It extends downward and forward, and communicates with the cochlear canal. The Cochlear Canal (scala media, membranous coch- lea, ductus cochlearis) begins by a broad opening at the lower and anterior portion of the vestibule. It at once enters the cochlea, where it lies in the space between the outer wall of the canal and the outer free edge of the lamina ossea spiralis, and aids in defining the scala, but lies on a plane above that of the lamina. As seen in a vertical section of the cochlea, the coch- lear canal presents a triangular appearance; the base of the figure corresponds to the outer wall of the cochlea, the apex to the edge of the lamina ossea spiralis, the lower side to a membrane (basilar mem- brane) which extends horizontally outward between the lamina ossea spiralis and the outer wall of the cochlea, and the upper side to a second membrane (membrane of Reissner, membrana vestibularis) which extends obliquely upward and outward. Fig. 147. Section through one of the coils of the cochlea, showing the organ of Cortl (diagrammatic); S V, scala vestibuli; ST, scala tympani; C C, cochlear canal; &, spiral groove ; one of the inner rods of Corti; e, one of the external rods of Corti; /, lamina reticularis ; i, one of the inner hair-cells ; p, external hair-cells; mc, membrana tectoria; sm, tunnel of Corti; mb, membrana basilaris ; 1, membrane of Reissner ; 2, cochlear nerve ; 3, lamina ossea spiralis ; 4, position of ligameutum spiraie coarsely represented.