640 ORGANS OF SENSE. tual). They are sometimes when engorged the ex- citing cause of cough b}^ pressure against the base of the tongue. The tonsil is a glandular structure having a fibrous matrix which affords accommodation for numerous small closed sacs. These are for the most part ar- ranged along the borders of irregular sinuous de- pressions which open upon the median free surface of the pharynx ; the orifices are froni fifteen to twenty in number. Eemakks.—In operations upon the tonsil, such as excision for hypertrophy and incision for abscess, the relation it bears to the internal carotid artery should be remembered. In opening an abscess of the tonsil the bistoury should not be thrust outward. Neglect of this precaution has led to serious complications from bleedincr of the wounded structures. The inter- nal carotid artery has thus been opened with fatal results. In cancerous infiltration of the parotid gland, the disease has extended by contiguity to the lateral wall of the pharynx and thence to the tonsil.—The tonsil when engorged may project into the pharynx and tend to obliterate the inter-tonsillar space, the symptoms being for the most part those pertaining to disordered respiration and deglutition. If, however, it enlarges without this median projection, the pressure forward and outward provokes difficalties of mastica- tion, and possibly of hearing. Upward pressure of an engorged tonsil can scarcely fail to push the soft palate upward, and by that means to maintain closure of the orifice of the Eustachian tube when the mouth is closed.—The tonsil may be tightly held by the folds on either side, in which case their division has been recommended.—In the second part of the act of deglutition the tonsil is pulled toward the posterior wall of the pharynx. Sometimes the surface which usually projects medianly is turned directly backward. Under these circumstances interference with the proper accomplishment of deglutition acts as an ex- citing cause of disease.—The tonsil, even when not enlarged, may be the cause of persistent irritation if the tonsillar tissue is indurated and lies concealed between closely approximated folds. Tonsillar abscess usually terminates, if not opened by the knife, by a spontaneous opening into the cavity of the pharynx. Instances are known, how- ever, of rupture of the abscess through the fibres of the Superior Constrictor muscle into the pterygo-max- illary region.' It is rational to assume that the overgrowth of the tonsil is an attempt at compensation on the part of an organ engaged in manufacturing blood-corpuscles, when other blood-making structures, such as the me- dulla of bone, are inactive. The tonsils, if of suffi- cient size to interfere with oral respiration, should be excised. If, however, they are simply enlarged and do not interfere with respiration, they should be let alone.—-The tonsil may become hypertrophied to such a degree as to be felt beneath the skin at the angle of the jaw. In common with other closed gland- structures the tonsil is very rarely the seat of pri- mary malignant growths. THE (ESOPHAGUS. The (Esophagus (gullet) is that portion of the ali- mentary canal which extends between the pharynx and the stomach. It begins at a point opposite the cricoid cartilage or the fifth cervical vertebra and ends at the cardiac orifice of the stomach opposite the ninth, tenth, or eleventh dorsal vertebra, and measures from nine to eleven inches in length. The oesophagus is the narrowest portion of the alimentary canal, and in a state of rest is slightly flattened as well as contracted, its mucous membrane being thrown into longitudinal folds so that a trans- verse section exhibits a stellate oval figure. It is slightly narrowed in passing through the Diaphragm and at the beginning of the thoracic portion. It is, at the latter place, but one inch in diameter. Sappey compares the canal to two elongated cones whose apices join at the last-mentioned constriction. ' Reitcli, Anatomie Chirurgicale, 416. EXPLANATION OF PLATE C. Fig. L A diagrammatic representation of the arrangement of the peritoneum. Fig. 2. The posterior wall and roof of the naso-pharynx, designed to display the adenoid tissue. Fig. 3. The tonsil. Fig. 4. The organs of the abdomen in situ, in repletion of the stomach ; normal. Fig. 5. The organs of the abdomen in situ, in inanition. Drawn from the body of a young woman who died of phthisis pulmonalis.