605 THE TYMPANIC CHAMBER o-CO^<XXi — the tympanic ring and membrane. It communicates in front with the Eustachian tube, and behind with the mastoid cells. It is filled with air through the Eustachian tube, is lined with mucous membrane, and contains the ossicles. The chamber is four and a half lines high, two lines in its greatest diameter, and one-twentieth of a line in its smallest, e., between the umbo and the promontory. For convenience in description six sides are recognized: an inner and an outer, a superior and an inferior, an anterior and a posterior. The inner wall.—The inner wall (labyrinthine wall), fig. I-IO (fig. 5, Plate XCVII.), is osseous, and answers in great part to the outer wall of the labyrinth. Its most conspicuous feature is the promontory, a rounded, irregular eminence, lying between the oval and round windows, and overlooking the latter. It is caused by a projection outward of the basal turns of the cochlea. Above the promontory is a reniform opening, lying in a shallow depression parallel to the tympanic membrane. It is called the oval window, and is occupied by the base of the stirrup. Below this, and concealed from view at the meatus, is a smaller rounded opening, the rotind window, which is occupied by a membrane (the secondary tympanic membrane). The oval window communicates with the cavity of the vestibule, the round window with the scala tympani of the cochlea.—• Extending backward and then downward, is a ridge- like swelling which is the outer wall of the canal for the facial neroe (aqueeductus Fallopii). Its walls are thin, and inflammation may extend by continuity of structure directly from the middle ear to the facial nerve.—As an appendage to this descending portion of the canal is a small hollow process directed upward, known as the jjyramid. It gives origin to the Sta- pedius muscle.—In front of the promontory is the beginning of the t^dje for the Tensor Tympani muscle (semicanalis). This is six lines long, and extends forward and downward toward the orifice of the Eustachian lube. Under the tube for the Tensor Tympani, Lusclika calls attention to a small portion of the carotid canal, which is here so thin at times as to permit, through ulcerative pro- cess, the occurrence of hemorrhage into the middle ear— Von Troltsch describes a point between the oval window and the facial canal, which answers to the horizontal semi- circular canal. The outer wall.—The outer wall is smaller than the inner, and is, except at the position of the tympanic membrane, occupied by the thin margin of the tym- panic ring and the squama. In front is the glenoid fissure, which receives the slender process of the mal- leus and the anterior malleal ligament. Near this again is the minute opening, known as the canal of Huouier, for the chorda tympani nerve. A diafframmatic representati<in of the inner wall of the tympanic chamber, a, promontory ; 6, oval window ; c, round window ; d, nerve-grooves on the promontory ; e, pyramid ; /, prominence of aqueduct of Fallopins ; g, open- ings of mastoid cells; h. tube of tensor tympani ; i", osseous part of Eusta- chian tube ; fc, internal carotid artery ; I, facial nerve. The upjyer wall.—The upper wall (tegmen tym- pani) is thin, and is derived from the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is frequently perforated by one or more minute openings. The lining membrane of the chamber comes in contact with the dura mater of the middle cerebral fossa at these points. The lower wall.—The lower wall, the result of the convergence of the outer and inner walls, is but little else than a groove, and answers in position to the jugular fossa. Rarely the floor, like the roof, is de- fective. The posterior wall.—The posterior wall is rough- ened. At its upper portion it presents an opening for communication with tlie mastoid cells. The anterior ivall.—The anterior wall is narrow, and, like the preceding, is incomplete. The Eustachian tube begins at its junction with the inner surfiice. A short distance above this opening is the position of the grooved canal for the Tensor Tympani muscle. The tympanum is supplied by the tympanic or Jacobson's nerve, and by branches from the otic ganglion of the fifth nerve. The mucous membrane is thin, delicate, and firmly associated with the bones. For the most part the epithelium is tessellated, but may be ciliated. Bloodvessels.—The arteries are derived from a branch of the internal maxillary and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which goes to the poste- rior part of the cavities and to the mastoid cells; a small twig supplies the malleus; a twig from the middle meningeal passes through the roof of the