684 THE ORGANS OF EESPIEATION. >o-o^c>o« image. Extending laterally from this ligament, and downward to the superior border of the cricoid carti- lage, is the vocal membrane, which is continuous in front with the median portion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The upper border of this membrane, with the vocal cord to which it is attached, forms the lower boundary of the laryngeal j>ouch. Stretching along the upper border of the laryngeal pouch is a membrane, known as the superior ihyro- arytennid ligament or the false vocal cord of the laryngeal image. In addition to these structures the larynx exhibits several elevations of the mucous membrane which have received the name of ligaments, without, however, strictly deserving this name. The§e are formed by prominences of pharyngeal fascia covered with mucous membrane. The most important f(;ld of this descrip- tion, pertaining to the interior of the larynx, is the ary-epiglottic. The ary-epiglottic ligament forms the lateral border of the aperture of the larynx, and extends between the tip of the arytenoid eminence and the side of the epiglottis. It contains the carti- lage of Wrisberg, and along its free border is the seat of a number of mucous glands. It is continuous at its base with the eminence of the false vocal cord. Tourtual and Luschka Lave described the membranous lining of the larynx as a continuous structure—the lower part terminating at the true vocal cord; the middle part lin- ing the laryngeal pouch, and ending in the false vocal cord ; the upper part forming a quadrangular membrane, whicii terminates at the ary-epiglottic fold. Remarks.—The thyro hyo'd ligament may be rup- tured, as occurred in a case of J. II. Stallard.^ A man, aged forty-four, suffering from phthisis, with laryn- geal irritation, " felt something give way during a paroxysm of coughing. On examination, the right greater cornu of the hyoid bone was felt to be loose beneath the integument. It was separated by at least ' Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., 1860, xi. 36. an inch and a half from the thyroid cartilage. During deglutition the hyoid bone was drawn upward, and the larynx tilted downward at the posterior part, thus increasing the distance between the thyroid car- tilage and the hyoid bone, the connection being main- tained in front only by the thyro-hyoid membrane." A small lymphatic gland lies upon the thyro-hyoid membrane beneath the Thyro-Hyoid muscle. En- largement of this gland may induce dysphagia and dyspnoea. Occasionally it is the seat of encephalo d cancer. A case of the latter mentioned by A. Burn.s' was remarkable for extending inward and upward along the pharyngeal wall. Thyro-hyoid abscess has its seat in a mass of cellu- lar tissue occupying a space behind the thyro-hyoid membrane, close to the base of the epiglottis. The suppurative inflammation of this part of the throat may be idiopathic, or may be symptomatic of an affection of the tongue, of the epiglottis, or of the thyroid cartilage. It may create oedema in the sub- epiglottic connective tissue, and in that of the ary- epiglottic ligaments, besides forcing the epiglottis upon the laryngeal aperture. The abscess extends toward the mouth, and its projection can sometimes be felt in the fossa between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis. The Muscles of the Larynx. The Muscles of the Larynx (Plates CIIL, CIV.) are—• The Crico-Thyroid. The Posterior Crico-Arytenoid. The Lateral Crico-Arytenoid. The Arytenoid. The Thyro Arytenoid. The Thyro-Epiglottideus. The Aryteno-Epiglottideus. 1 Surg. Auat. of Neok, 118. EXPLANATION Fig. 1. The larynx opened from behind ; tlie left side with structures dissected from tlie interior aspect; the right side is displayed in sinistro-dextral transverse (frontal) section. Fig. 2. The larynx, trachea, and bronchial tubes in position, seen from in front. Fig. 3. The larynx, so displayed as to give a view of the OF PLATE CIV. intrinsic muscles, after the removal of one side of the thyroid cartilage. Fig. 4. The laryngeal image, seen by reflected light, show- ing the vocal cords abducted. Fig. 5. The same, showing the vocal cords adducted. Fig. 6. The cricoid cartilage, tlie arytenoid cartilage, and tiie cartilages of Santoi'ini. Tiie structures last men- tioned have been named coruicula laryncjis.