634 ORGANS OF SENSE. tlie cingulum may assume tlie cliaracters of a cusp, in wliicli event the incisor can be distinguished with difficulty from a bicuspid tooth as far as the crown is concerned. The roots of the upper molars may be four in number. The roots of the upper molai'S tend in variation to diverge, while those of the lower molars tend to converge. Eruption of the Teeth.—-The deciduous incisors, as a rule, are erupted befoi'e the large fontanel closes. Thus the first incisor appears at the age of six or seven months, and the large fontanel is closed at twelve. The fontanel is entirely ossified at the third year. Development}—-The teeth are developed from the oral mucous membrane in the following manner: In the seventh week (fortieth to forty-fifth day) a faint groove appears upon the surfaces of the jaw in the position of the future dental arch. Owing to the increased growth of the epithelial cells along the sides of the groove the membrane appears slightly swollen. Coincident with this a fold of the deeper layer of the epithelium carrjn'ng with it the layer of cylindrical cells (the Malpighian layer) descends with the groove and occupies its entire length. It is, in a word, a distinctly specialized structure growing from the oral epithelium in the same manner as glandular organs arise. Thus lodged, it expands at its free or lower portion, and becomes thinned at its upper at- tached portion. The former becomes concave be- neath to adapt itself to a conical projection that is seen growing upward from the embryonic tissue of the jaw. The epithelial growth is now divided transversely into a number of separate processes, each of which is attached to the side or top of the groove by a distinct stem. At this time each involuted por- tion might be compared to a bell-glass with a long handle or to an inverted letter (Tomes). The groove is now closed above by the oral mucous membranes, and no trace remains of the peculiar pro- cess of involution by which a fold of epithelium has been imprisoned beneath. The groove thus becom- ing obliterated and each papilla being in relation to its own enamel organ, the remainder of the enamel- riband disappears, and membranous partitions sepa- rate the sacs of the developing teeth from one another. These partitions by their ossification iorm the future alveoli. This process of epithelium is the germ of the enamel, and is hence called the enamel-organ. The papilla to which it is adapted contains the germ of the dentine, and is called the dentine-org an. ' See also p. 60. The enamel-organ adapts itself accurately to the growing dental papilla, defines the crown of the future tooth by terminating at the neck, and firmly embraces the papilla by a well-defined constriction. It is thickest over the apex of the dentine-organ, but becomes thinner as it approaches the base. The closure of the follicle is coincident with the absorption of the stem of the enamel-organ, which for the remainder of the development is nourished bv the wall of the follicle. The upward growth of the dental papilla and its hood causes absorption of the stem of the latter, and from the time of its disappearance the enamel-cup is called the enamel proper of the tooth, and no trace of its peculiaroriginisseen. The dentinal structures form successively from without inward in the papilla, thus narrowing the use of the soft structures, and serving to limit the future pulp-chamber. The roots of the teeth grow as the papilla ascends, and receive their cemental coverings by changes in the wall of the sac, which are almost identical with the process of the development of bone from membranous structures. Development of the permanent teeth.—At the six- teenth week a second diverticulum similar in kind to the first passes downward to the inner side of the deciduous tooth-sac. Tlie sixth-year-molar is pri- maryi. e., is a bud-like growth ; it arises from the epithelium from the same layer which yields the first enamel-organ germ. At the third month the twelve-year-molar bud arises from the neck of the enamel-organ, thus constituting a secoyulary outgrowth, while at the third year the bud-like growth which evolves the eighteen-year-molar, thus in its turn con- stituting a tertiary outgrowth, takes its origin. Structure of the enamel-organ—The enamel-organ consists of three layers: first, the internal epitiielium, which forms the enamel proper of the perfected toot!); second, an internal epithelium, which is composed of simple rounded cells and is absorbed during the process of eruption ; and a third or intermediate layer (called the stratum intermedium) which serves the purpose of nutritive substratum to the other two (Tomes). It is composed of cells having distinct nuclei and ramified processes, which latter freely anastomose. The enamel-organ is smooth where it covers the dentine-organ, but is indented by numerous papillary projections on its outer surface.' The dentine arises from calcification in the inter- stices of the cells—forming the intertubular sub- stance. This is not a negative process, but the result of certain changes in the cells by which a special ' LeGros and Magitot, .Journ. of Anat. et Phys. 1881.