G07 THE LIVER. ■ -x^O^OOo usually descends two or tliree inches below the angle of junc- tion of the last costal cartilage with the sternum. The ordinary extent of hepatic dulness, in an adult of average size, is four inches in the right mammary line, four- and-a-lialf or five inches in the right axillary line, four inches in the right dorsal line, and three or four inches in the median line anteriorly. The following table, from L. Mayer,' is designed to show the character of the lesions of internal organs accompanying gunshot and other wounds in the neighborhood of the liver. It is thought that from it some approximation of the degree and locality of an injury may be secured, the point of en- trance, exit, or lodgment of a projectile being previously known. It is evident, from the conditions determining the relations and size of the liver, that nothing but an approxima- tion can in all cases be premised. The table is based upon an elaborate series of experiments on the effects of gunshot wounds upon the cadaver. Entrance of projectile in front and to the right side. 1. Entrance beneath right nipple; exit) inferior end of 12th rib. \ 2. Entrance at the 7th rib near outer end ^ of the costal cartilage ; exit a hand's- I breadth to the right of the vertebral | column. J 3. Entrance between the 7th and 8th ribs; ~\ exit behind corresponding to 11th |- rib. ) 4. Entrance between the 8th and 9th ribs ^ 8 inches from the median line ; exit i between 11th and 12th left ribs \ ( inch from their articulations. J 5. Entrance between the 8th and 9th ribs ^ forward and somewhat laterally; exit I on level with 11th right rib 4 inches { from the vertebral column. J 6. Entrance through the 9th rib backward ) on level with 1st lumbar vertebra. i 7. Entrance neighborhood of 9t]i and 10th Viscera wounded. Lung and liver. Liver. Liver. Liver and left kidney. Liver and right lung. Liver and right kidney. ribs 3^ inches from-ensifbrm cartilage? exit between 7th and 8th ribs near vertebral column. Entrance between 10th and 11th ribs . Li exit behind, 1^ inch from vertebral column. •.,1 (. Liver and colon. Entrance of projectile in front and to the left side. 1. Entrance above and 2 inches to left of umbili- cus. Viscera wounded. Left and right lobes of liver. Ball found lying in duo- denum. Lnc. eit., p. 70 (see p. 3(j5). Entrance of projectile in front and to the left side. Entrance dium. near prajcor- Entrance at epigastric region to the left side of the ensiform carti- lage. Entrance behind the 7th and 8th ribs. Entrance behind 5th and 6th ribs of left side to- ward right side. Viscera wounded. Inferior border of right lung. Diaphragm, left lobe of liver, anterior and poste- rior wall of stomach. Liver. Lung, Diaphragm, spleen, and right lobe of liver. Liver. Entrance of projectile to right hypochondriac, epigastric, and umbilical regions, [. Entrance 2 or 3 fingers'-breadth beneath the last right costal car- tilage ; exit backward between 10th and 11th ribs of right side. In right hypochondrium. 3. Entrance anterior and upper por- tions of the right hypochon- drium ; exit opposite. 4. Entrance at the right hypochon- drium and tlie borders of the false ribs. 5. Entrance at right hypochond. 5 in. from median line ; exit over right ileum 2 inches from median line. J 6. Entrance in right hypochondrium ; ) exit near inferior angle of scapula j 7. Entrance under ensiform cartilage; exit to the left between 2d and [ 3d false ribs, near the vertebral [ column. J Viscera wounded. Upper portion of liver. Liver and Diaphragm. Liver. Li ver. 1 r Liver. Entrance of projectile from behind. Entrance on the level of the 8th rib a hand's-breadth from the ver- j tebral column ; exit in front of } Liver mammary line, fracturing 7th right rib. Entrance between 8th and 9th ribs; exit between the 7th and 8th ribs 4^ inches from the sternum. Entrance between 8th and 9th right ribs 2^ inches from vertebral column ; exit between the 7th )■ Liver, and 8tli right ribs 4^ inches from the sternum. Liver. Liver, pancreas, spleen. Diaphragm, right ventricle, and vertebral column. Viscera wounded. 1 I y Liver. 1 I J