ORGANS OF SENSE. 60i — cxCxC^fOOC • (3) The topography of the inner surface. The inner surface of the tympanic membrane is convex. It is marked by two folds Avhich form the boundaries of the pockets of Von Troltsch. The anterior pocket is a depression between the base of the long process and the neck of the malleus, the anterior malleolar liga- ment, and the fold of mucous membrane answering to the chorda tympani nerve. The posterior pmcltet is open below, and is situated at the posterior superior part of the membrane, and is formed by a fold of membrane running toward the handle of the malleus. A third pocket or pouch is described by Prussak and Brunner. This cavity, according to C. Burnett,^ is defined behind by the neck of the malleus, below by the upper surface of the short process, in front by the membrana flaccida, and above by the external mallear ligament. Eemarks.—Since the action of the Tensor Tym- pani muscle is to rotate the malleus and to make tense the tympanic membrane, it will be seen that the effects of such rotation should be carefully studied as the membrane is exposed at the bottom of the external auditory meatus. The anterior quadrants are deepened; the handle of the malleus is retracted and appears foreshortened, its narrowest eflge pre- sents itself toward the membrane, while the free end of the process is rounded and thickened. These characters when taken together are pathognomonic of increased inward tension and retraction of the membrane, and are of great value to the physician in studying this condition as a correlative of chronic aural catarrh. Lucse^ has observed a movement of the membrane in respiration. The rare appearance upon the outer surface of the membrane of the apparent duplication of the short process is explained as follows: the process has ' Treatise on Dise<ases of tlie Ear, 82. 2 Archiv fiir Olirenheilkunde, 1864, i. 96. slipped out of its sheath, the process counting for one eminence, the sheath for the other. The membrana flaccida is often the seat of acute changes, in which the rest of the tympanic membrane does not participate. On the other hand, congestive, particularly catarrhal, conditions are apt to be announced by increased redness and lividity of this membrane. The student, therefore, should make himself familiar with its normal appearances in the living subject.—The membrana flaccida is some- times greatly relaxed, and individuals have the power by inflating the middle ear to cause it to bulge outward. This condition is not of necessity associated with any diminution of hearing. The third pouch may become filled with mucus or pus, and it may be, in consequence, ruptured. Many cases of earache, which present no features of disten- sion of the drum-head proper, or, in fact, of the region of the membrana flaccida, may be relieved instantly by puncturing the latter at the third pouch. The point to be selected for the puncture lies just above and in front of the short process. Variations.—The plane of tlie tympanic membrane varies with respect to the axis of tlie external meatus. In children the inclination from above downward is more oblique than in the adult. In some adults the membrane is inclined forward and inward The membrane of Shrap- nell is an exceedingly variable portion of the tympanic membrane. It is often perforated by an exceedingly minute canal situated close to the short process, and called the foramen of Eivini. In the opinion of some writers, the membrane of Shrapnell is closed in health—the opening being the result of morbid action or of imperfect develop- ment Numerous minute variations in the details of the membrane both in structure and color are to be detected, which have received little or no attention. THE TYMPANIC CHAMBER. The Tympanic Chamber is a narrow, irregular space between the outer wall of the labyrinth and EXPLANATION OF PLATE XCVII. Fig. 1. The auricle. Fig. 2. The temporal bone, showing the chamber of the tympanum displayed from within, and the malleus and incus as well as the Eustachian tube in position. Fig. 3. A frontal (vertical transverse) section of the cham- ber of the tympanum and the bottom of the external auditory meatus. Fig. 4. The tympanic membrane, seen in position at the bottom of the external auditory meatus. The mem- brane is divided into tburths by two dotted lines crossing each other at the position of the umbo. Fig. 5. The temporal bone so divided as to display the inner wall of the tympanic chamber.