764 EMBKYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF MALFORMATIONS. -□•<z>0^0<Xi the dissepiments. Each cavernous space, as it forms the boundaries of the depressions for a choroidal villus, is lined with a single layer of oval epithelial cells; this acts as a secreting surface, and separates and prepares a secretion from the maternal blood which is absorbed by the vessels of the chorionic villi, and applied to the nutrition of the foetus. The placenta is a compound organ, and consists of two series of structures, the one belonging to the foetus, the foetal placenta; the other to the mother, the maternal placenta. The foetal placenta is formed of the chorion, amnion, allantois, and umbilical ves- sels. The chorion, (primitive chorion, zona pellucida) is the outmost membrane of the egg. A diagrammatic representation of the fcetal membranes. E, Epiblast; M, me- soblast; H, hypoblast; U V, umbilical vesicle; a allantois (the allantois lies to the left of the letters) ; am, amuion (the amnion lies to the left of the letters); AC, the amniotic chamber; A L C, the allantoic chamber; sz, the subzonal membrane ; p c, the primitive chorion with villi. Eemarks.—The eft'ects of inflammatory adhesions between the integument and the amnion have been noted on p. 749.—The deciclua vera and decidua cero- Una, together with inclosed embryo, may be arrested in development, and constitute the so-called placental male, whicli in time is expelled from the cavity of the uterus.—The subject of ectrophy of the bladder (see p. 765) involves the pedicle of the allantois, and has close relations to the bloodvessel system of the embryo. THE REGION OF THE GENITO-URINABY APPARATUS. The Genito-Urinary tract embraces the organs occupying a position between the peritoneal sac and the vertebral column, and those parts of the nutri- tive system by means of which the allantois assists in the formation of the urinary bladder. The teratological region embraced \)y this appara- tus extends along the entire length of the retro-peri- toneal space of the adult, and in addition includes the ureter, the bladder, the internal and external organs of generation, as well as the rectum, in its middle and lower portions, and the anus. This extensive tract possesses in common the following embryonic features:— The Wolffian Body. The Kidney. The Ovary. The Testis. The External Organs of Generation. The Bladder and Urachus. The Prostate Gland and Duct of Gartner. The Wolffian Bodies.—-The genito-urinary appa- ratus, unlike other anatomical systems, possesses an embryonal structure, in many respects unlike the one permanently assumed. A single structure, termed the Wolffian body, lies in the retro-peritoneal space in the position of the future kidney, and, indeed, per- forms the work of that gland; at the same time it holds within itself the groove from which both the male and the female genito urinary organs are de- rived. According to tlie researches of Semper and Balfour, tlie primordial organ, wliicli arises from the intermediate cell- mass of the mesoblast, is composed of three distinct portions, the anterior ([tronephros), the middle (mesonepliros), and the posterior (metanephros). Of tiiese, tlie middle portion alone forms the Wolffian body, while the posterior becomes the future kidney; the anterior portion is of obscure function and destiny in the higlier animals, and need not here be regarded. The Wolffian bodies are two elongated tubular masses of a reddish color, found lying in the retro- peritoneal space. The tubuli are arranged trans- versely from within outward, and empty into a duct (Wolffian duct), which runs vertically downward along the outer side of the body to the primitive cloaca. Towards the initial ends of the tubuli, at the lower portion of the Wolffian body, a number of minute structures are seen, which resemble in form and function the Malpighian corpuscles of the kidney. After an activity ranging from the sixth to the seventh week the Wolffian bodies atrophy, in time disappear, and the subsequent work of excretion during foetal life falls upon the kidneys.