THE OKGANS OF KESPIEATION. 694 The two lungs are somewhat broadly contrasted. Tlie right lung is the larger, including the riglit bronchus. It ascends higher in respiration, and succumbs easily to dis- eased action. The shape of the lung is impressed to a slight and varia- ble degree by adjacent structures. The subclavian artery, infra, may create a faint sulcus upon the anterior surface of the apex. The median side of the lung is rendered somewhat concave by the vena cava on the right side, and by the lower poi-tion of the thoracic aorta on the left. Eemarks.—The clinical I'einarks in connection with the anatomy of the lung may be embraced under the following heads: (a) the apex, (i) the root, (c) the base, and (d) the bronchial tubes. (a) llie apex.—The portion of the lung which is not confined by the thorax at the base of the neck is of course smaller in inspiration than in expiration. In robust individuals it is smaller than in those who are flat-chested.—The subclavian artery of each side passes over the front of the lung from one-half to one-third of an inch below the apex, and in some in- dividuals creates a sulcus upon the lung surface.— The left upper lobe is shallower and narrower than the right. The result is that tbe percussion note above the clavicle is somewhat less resonant over the left than over the right upper lobe.'—In phthisis the altered form of the chest modifies the mechanism of coughing. The abdominal muscles and the Dia- phragm by their long-continued use become dispro- portionately powerful, and tend to force the lung upward in the thorax. J. Hamernjik^ has called attention to the loss of elasticity of the lung in long- continued illness accompanied by cough ; while Gru- ber^ has recorded several cases showing that, under the conditions above given, a cavity situated in the apex of the lung above the clavicle may be unable thoroughly to expel the contained air in expiration, or completely to discharge the liquid contents; and owing to the comparatively unprotected position of the apex, the walls of the cavity may project as a small triangular swelling at the base of the neck be- tween the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and the Anterior Scalene muscle. {h) The root.—-The root of the lung should be sepa- rated in clinical studies from the rest of the organ. Adhesions of any kind rarely occur here.—Lesions of the thoracic viscera not caused by the penetration of fractured ribs usually involve the lung and generally ' Sibson, Med. Anat., Col. 37, 32. 2 Prager Vierteljahrsclir., 1845, iii. 72. 8 Vier Beitrage zur Med.-Chirurg. Anat., Berlin, 1847. 41. occur near the root of the organ.'—The left bronchus not only crosses the descending aorta and forms the lower limit, but it crosses the oesophagus as well. Both of these structures may excite diseased action at this place.—Owing to the fact that the aorta arches over the root of the left lung, this portion of the viscus is often compressed by aneurism of the aortic arch. (cj The base.—The base of the lung is related clini- cally to the Diaphragm, the liver, and the spleen. It may be found adherent to the pleura of the Dia- phragm, and may become involved in abdominal abscess which presses upward, and which may even open within the thoracic cavity, especially on the right side. Should the pleura of the base be adherent to the liver through the medium of the Diaphi-agra, such a collection may rupture within the lung-substance and be emptied through the bronchial tubes. (cZ) The bronchial tubes.—The bronchial tubes may be constricted, as in asthma, from over-activity of the muscular fibres, or be over-dilated either through the inefficiency of these fibres or through degenerative processes in the remaining structures of their walls. The tubes, as they lie near or within the posterior mediastinum, are subject to compression from glandu- lar, cancerous, aneurismal, and otlier growths, and may serve as conduits for blood and pus. The lung may undergo congestion, partial collapse, and inflammation from the secondary effects of pres- sure by enlarged lymphatic glands (which are placed adjacent to the bronchial tubes) against the nerves of the pulmonary plexus. W. GulP narrates three cases of sloughing pneu- monia following pressure against the pneumogastric nerves. J. P. Irvine^ has found that the left bronchus is especially liable to compression by mediastinal tumors, particularly by those lodged in the walls of the oesophagus. When the main bronchus of a lung is gradually obstructed by tumors originating beyond its boundaries, or by intra-mural fibroid changes, the act of expiration is impeded, and emphysema, lobar collapse, destructive pneumonia, etc. ensue. THE PLEURAE. The Pleurfe are two closed serous sacs which line the spaces containing the lungs. Each pleural sac may be said to occupy the corresponding side of the thorax. The space between the sacs has received ' T. Holmes, Surgical Diseases of Children, 247. 2 Guy's Hosp. Reports, 3d series, 1859, v. 309, 3 Lancet, 1878, pp. 415, 486, 563.