665 THE LIVER. Die Wuuilcii der LeLor und Galloiibla; se, Muiiiuh, 1872 Taf. vii. ■ oOO^OOO walls obliquely, and emjities in the immediate neigh- borhood of the pancreatic duct. Its orifice is some- what contracted just before entrance into the intestine. Relations It lies in the gastro-liepatic omentum in front of tlie vena porta, below the hepatic artery ; the right gastro- e[)i|)Ioica artery lies along its left side, together with lym- pliatic vessels and several lymphatic glands. A horizontal section of tlie truak at the level of the space between the twelfth dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra. 1, the liver; 2, the left kiduey ; 3, tlie stomach ; 4, tlie spleen ; o, 6, section of the hepatic vessels ; 7, the gall- bladder; 8, the inferior vena cava. The following special study of the relations of the liver is based upon theinvestigationsof LudwigMayer.^ Additional Relations The liver is for the most part embraced in the dome of the Diaphragm, having indirect relations only with the base of the bony thorax. Its rela- tions, in consequence of its bulk and irregular shape, can be studied to the best advantage by sections made in the most suggestive positions, viz. : An antero posterior section (sagittal section) through the mammary line. All antero-posterior through the median line. A (dextro-sinistral) transverse section (frontal sec- tion). A horizontal section. W/ien an antero-posterior (sagittal) section of the trunk is made through the mammary line, about two and three-quarters of an inch {seven centimeters) from the sternum and down- ward to the hip-joint (Fig. 180), it is observed that the highest convexity of the liver is on a level with the fifth rib anteriorly and the eighth rib posteriorly, while it reaches three centimeters (one and three-sixteenths inches) above the last false rib. Its longitudinal diameter is nineteen cen- timeters (seven and one-half inches), and the transverse thir- teen centimeters (five inches), as measured from the upper border of the right kidney. It lies in the vault of the Dia- S5 phragm, and reaches the posterior ends of the ribs. Ante- riorly, the section reaches the alidominal wall and the four lower intercostal spaces and the corresponding ribs ; jioste- riorly, it recei-ves the right kidney(2) in a special depression ; and interiorly lies a part of the omentum, beneath which is a portion of the ascending colon.(;">) In young children the liver rises liigher than it does in adults, and the lower mar- gin descends below the costal arch in the right mammary line. In consequence of this, a small quantity of effused fluid in the right side of the pleural sac is more apt to escape notice, according to Eustace Smith,' the friction being often absent and the dulness attributed to the liver. When an antero-posterior section is made in the median line (Fig. 181), the convex surface of the liver(l) is seen applied to the central tendon of tlie Diaphragm, and thus answering to that surface of the heart(3) which rests upon the Diaphragm, e., to the left ventricle and the right aurisle. Tlie posterior border lies against the dorsal wall, or crura of the Diapiiragm in the region of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh dorsal vertebra?. The concave under surface lies over the anterior superior surface of the stomach.(2) Dr. A. von Brunn'' has described as existing in the fcctus between the left lobe of the liver and the Diaphragm a bursa {Bursa phrenico-hepaticus) which appears to be con- nected with the original formation of the left lateral liga- ment. When a transverse {dextro-sinistralfrontal) perpendicu- lar section is made (Fig. 182), the liver(l) is seen to lie at the plane of section opposite the seventh rib and to extend thence down to the twelfth. The section is of a triangular form, and occupies the angle defined by the thoracic wall, the heart, and the right lung. The left border goes slightly be- yond the stomach, covering in the pyloric half of that organ, and the first portion of the duodenum. The outer right sur- face of the liver lies between the eighth and eleventh ribs and their intercostal muscles. If a needle is thrust between the seventh and eighth ribs, it will first ti-averse the pleural sac before entering the liver. When a horizontal section is made between the ninth and tenth ribs (Fig. 183), the liver(l) is observed to be in close proximity to the right of the first lumbar vei-tebra. Between the quadrate lobe and tlie right lobe as it lies near the kidney the gall-bladder is seen. In front of the gall-bladder lie the obliquely cut hepatic vessels and the portal vein. Between tiie liver and the inferior cava is a portion of the lesser omental sac. A part of the anterior half of the renal sulcus of the liver, since it is free from peritoneum, is applied directly to the capsule of the kidney, while its posterior part is separated from the kidney by the peritoneum. This relation is of importance in studying tlie evacuation of hepatic abscess and lesions of the bloodvessels. When a horizontal section is made between the twelfth 1 Clin. Studies of Diseases of Children, Lond., 1876, 102. 2 Zeit. fiir Anat. uud Entwickelungs geschiclite, I. 3 and 4 Heft,