656 THE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. OOO^^OOo the bladder. "Within the latter organ was found a phosphatic calculus the size of a horse-bean, having a nucleus of fecal matter. Bloodvessels.—For the arteries of the small and the large intestine see the account of the branches of the abdominal aorta. The veins are tributary to the portal system of veins. Nerves.—The nerves are derived from the pneumo- gastric nerve and from the superior mesenteric plexus of the sympathetic system. Lym.phalics.—The lymphatics join the mesenteric glands. THE RECTUM. The Eectum (fig. 4, Plate CI.; fig. 1, Plate C.) is that portion of the large intestine placed between the sigmoid flexure and the anus. As the name implies, it is straight, or at least relatively so; but when care- fully examined the rectum is found to incline slightly from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the median line of the sacrum opposite its third segment. Thence it descends, following the general curve of the sacrum. Within an inch of its termination the bowel is turned slightly backward to end at the anus. In addition to these deviations from a straight line, the rectum pre- sents two lateral curves, one slight curve to the left side opposite the third segment of the sacrum, the other lower down, which inclines to the right. For convenience of description, the rectum is divided into three portions, namely, the upper^ the middle, and the loiver portion. The upper portion is one-half inch long, is entirely embraced by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum by the meso-rectum, which carries the inferior mesen- teric artery and vein, together with nerves and lym- phatics. Behind are the sacro-iliac junction, the Pyriformis muscle, branches of the left internal iliac artery, and the origin of the sacral plexus. Tlie middle portion, which is three inches long, is in contact with the peritoneum only upon its anterior surface. Behind it are the lower portion of the sacrum and the corresponding part of the Pyriformis muscle. In continuing its curve forward it lies upon the coc- cyx and the muscular fibres arising therefrom. In front it is in relation with the base of the bladder, the vesiculas seminales, the vasa deferentia, and the prostate gland. In the female it is in relation with the posterior surface of the bladder. The loiver portion, one inch long, is without peri- toneum, and is surrounded by the fat of the ischio- rectal fossa. Its lower portion is embraced by the External Sphincter muscle. In front lie the membra- nous and bulbous portions of the urethra in the male, and of the vagina in the female. By the deflection of the third portion backward a triangular space is defined between the pudenda and the rectum. Structure.—The minute anatomy of the rectum is much simpler than that of the small intestine, but is more complicated than that of the colon or of the sigmoid flexure. The canal presents an imperfect peritoneal layer already noticed, a muscular layer composed of longitudinal and circular fibres, a sub- mucous layer, and the mucous membrane. The muscular layer. The longitudinal layer of muscular fibres is paler than the circular, but better developed than in the colon. It is gradually lost toward the lower end of the rectum. A few fasciculi extend below the others and end in tendinous threads which, penetrating the fibres of the External Sphinc- ter, are lost in the subcutaneous connective tissue. These bands correspond to the longitudinal folds of the rectum as seen upon the mucous membrane. Others of the fasciculi are inserted in the pelvic fascia, and a few upon the sacro-coccygeal ligament.— The circular fibres are better developed than the preceding. They end just above the anus in a well- defined edge termed the Internal Sphincter. As else- where through the alimentary canal, the circular layer is more intimately held to the mucous layer than to the longitudinal fibres.—The Tertiary Sphinc- ter is a name occasionally given to the c'rcular fibres at the beginning of the rectum. (See Remarks.) The submucous connective tissue is abundant, and contains elastic tissue and lymphatic vessels. In it are imbedded the glands of the mucous layer. The mucous memhrane.—^The mucous n^embrane bears in color and general appearance a resemblance to that of the oesophagus, and presents at its lower portion obscure reticulations recalling those seen on the mucous lining of the empty stomach. Near the anus it is provided with a number of folds, the most conspicuous of which are the longitudinal folds or columns of Morgagni which are seen at the lower part of the rectum. They correspond in position to well-marked fasciculi of the longitudinal muscular fibres, and in the contraction of the External Sphinc- ter are prolonged to the verge of the anus. The lower ends are united by transverse folds which con- vert the intervals between the columns into pouches. At the junction of the upper and middle portions an oblique fold is seen, known as the valve of Houston.— The epithelium of the rectum is columnar, except at the anus, where it is squamous. The glands of the rectum are few in number, and