690 THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION, OOC-^^OOO Others, and is apt to be united at the sides with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. The lower border of each ring is often furnished with one or more irregular or simple processes. The last tracheal ring, which lies at the bifurca- tion of the bronchi, is of a triangular shape. The posterior membranous portion of the trachea is com- posed of fibro-elastic and muscular tissue. The fibrous layer is continuous around the entire tube in front, and at the sides partially imbedding the tracheal rings. It is con- tinuous above with the perichondrium of the cricoid carti- lage. The elastic layer, composed of fibres which are arranged longitudinally, occupies the spaces between the rings, and is intimately connected with the mucous mem- brane. The mucous membrane is marked near the bifurca- tion of tlie bronchi by a few faintly developed longitudinal folds. Fig. 187. From a longitudinal section through the trachea of a child, a, The stratified columnar ciliated epithelium of the internal free surface; h, the basement membrane ; c, the mucosa ; the networks of longitudinal elastic fibres ; the oval nuclei between them indicate connective-tissue corpuscles; e, the sub- mucous tissue containing mucous glands ; /, large bloodvessels ; g, fat-cells ; /», hyaline cartilage of the trachea! rings. The muscular layer is thin, and composed of pale, unstriated fibres, which are confined for the most part to transverse bundles entering the incurved ends of the C-l'ke cartilages. The muscle-layer is crossed by sparsely distributed longi- tudinal fasciculi. To the outer side of or incorporated with the layer are occasionally seen small nodules of cartilage called by Luschka the intercalar cartilages. The wucoHS membrane is thin and of a yellowish-red color. It is firmly adherent by means of elastic fibres to the elastic coat, and is covered everywhere with ciliated epithelium. The glands opening upon the tra(;iiea are of the racemose type, those upon the posterior wall of the tube being the best developed. Rokitansky has described retention cysts of these glands under the name of tracheocele. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the trachea in the neck are derived from the tracheal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins in the neck con- tribute to the inferior thyroid veins and thence to the innominate veins. The nerves are derived from the recurrent branches of the pneumogastric nerve. The lymqjhatics in the neck pass to the inferior deep lymphatic ghinds of the same region. In the iliorax the trachea receives twigs from the aorta; the nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, and the lymphatic vessels join the tracheal glands. Variations The trachea has been found by Serres' duplicated in a specimen of hetoredelphia. It may end blindly a short distance below the cricoid cartilage or be at about the same level fused with oesophagus. For other defects see QEsophagus. Remarks.—The trachea is peculiarly exposed to causes of compression, not only because of the posi- tion occupied by it in the neck, but because of the yielding character of the tracheal walls. Besides, its tract lies in regions which are liable to many grave morbid processes, among which may be mentioned goitre, sarcoma, aneurism of the great vessels, en- largements of lymphatic glands, and diseases of the clavicles, ribs, and sternum. It is thus liable to be deflected from the median line—a fact of importance to remember in the operation of tracheotomy in an adult having a cervical tumor. The trachea is also liable to intra-mural changes, chiefly of a fibroid character, which narrow its lumen and impede the ingress and the egress of air. The trachea is fre- quently invaded by disease originating in other structures. Thus a tuberculous abscess has been known to ulcerate through the tracheal walls and cause death by suffocation. Cancer is a frequent cause of tracheal involvement, either by extending forward from the oesophagus, or by pressure from cancerous cervical or thoracic lymphatic glands. Aneurism, particularly the intra-thoracic form, may give rise to hemorrhage into its lumen. The trachea may be compressed at the point of bifurcation by lymphatic glands and induce symptoms of suffoca- tion. Abscess of the lymphatic glands in this posi- tion may open into the trachea or bronchial tubes.' It yields not only to the slow processes of disease, but to injuries as well. In the thorax its position protects it from all injuries but penetrating wounds. In the neck it is otherwise, and, especially when the head is thrown backward, the trachea may be ruptured 1 Mas. il'IIist. Nat. xv. 1827, 4.