676 THE ALIMENTARY CAxNAL. =00^^000 cavity has received the name of the lesser j^^eritojieal cavity, and will be now described. In order properly to do this it is necessary to turn for a moment to the development of the parts. The stomach, as is the case with the other abdominal viscera, is received in a loop of peritoneum projected from the vertebral column. The pedicle of this loop has received in the foetus the name of the meso- yastrium} At the fonrth or fifth week, when the meso-gastrium performs a duty analogous to the mesentery, the stomach is placed vertically in the abdomen. As the pyloric end is deflected to the left, the meso-gastrnwi gradually undergoes a great change. It is carried by the stomach from the posterior toward the anterior wall of the abdomen, and sags downward so as to hang in front of the intestine, and forms the great omentum. It will be seen that a cavity, lined with peritoneum— the lesser cavity of the peritoneum^—lies between the stomach and the vertebral column. It is continuous with the interior of the great (jmental loop below and extends along the gastro-hepatic omentum from its ])osterior layer to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and thence covers the posterior surface of this organ. From this point it passes within the great omentum, and forms its iri7ier layer. Along the back of the lesser cavity it covers in the pancreas and portions of the spleen and the Diaphragm. It ascends upon the latter and is reflected tlience upon the liver, and from this organ in turn to the posterior layer of the gastro-hepatic omentum. The lesser peritoneal cavity communicates with the greater peritoneal cavity by an opening between the stomach and the liver called the foramen of Winslow. The foramen of Winslow is an aperture bounded behind by the vena cava, in front by the hepatic vessels, above by the lobe of Spigelius as it joins with the caudate lobe, and below by the duodenum. It is probably originally created by the traction of the liver through its common bile- duct, at the time of the deflection of the stomach toward the riglit side. It generally measures an inch in diameter. This measurement is less when the stomach is distended. The lesser cavity can be inflated in tlie infant. Later in life the great omentum becomes here and there perforated, when inflation is no longer possible. Nevertheless, the cavity may be occupied by fluid in the 1 J. Miiller, Meckel's Archiv, 1830, 411, Taf. xi., figs. 1-10. 2 See the dark-shaded space in fig. 1, Plate C. adult (forming the ubnormal condition known as Hydrops saccatus) through occlusion of the foramen of Winslow. Peritoneal folds. In consequence of the intricate arrange- ments obtained in applying a serous membrane to such varied surfaces as those of the abdominal cavity, a number of folds (ligaments, plica?) are formed. Some of these have already been described. But to insure ease of reference the com- plete list is herewitli given. (1) Tlie suspensory ligament of the liver, determined by the position of tiie umbilical vein. (2) The rigiit and left lateral ligaments of the liver. (3) Tlie gastro-splenic omentum, ligament, or fold.' (4) The gastro-phrenic ligament. (5) Tiie costo-phrenic fold. This originates from the Diaphragm opposite tlie tenth to the twelfth rib, passes to the splenic flexure of the colon, thence over the splenic flexure, and reaches the left kidney and the descending colon, (6J The hepatico-renal fold. (7) The recto-vesical, recto-uterine, vesico-uterine folds, and infundibulo-pelvic ligaments. (8) The ileo-ciccal fold. (9) The mesenterico-meso-colic fold. This is described as lying between the mesentery and tlie meso-colon of the sigmoid flexure. It would appear to limit the descent of the latter.' Peritoneal Fosspb In addition to the above folds five fosste (peritoneal pouches, peritoneal pits) have been described. (1) The diwdenn-jejiinal fossa The duodeno-jejunal fossa (fossa duodenalis) lies to the left side of the third lum- bar vertebra between the pancreas, the left kidney, and the aorta. It has the capacity of a walnut, and presents its orifice forward. The upper margin is lost in the lower leaf of the transverse meso-colon ; it contains the inferior mesenteric vein. The lower is produced upon the perito- neal covering of the duodenum, and contains the left colic artery. The pouch is ordinarily occupied by the junction of the duodenum with the jejunum. (Luschka.) Treitz' has described cases of hernia situated in this locality under the name of hernia retro-peritoncealis, i. e., hernia into the retro-peritoneal space. Montard* gives a case of congeni- tal retro-peritoneal sac. At the autopsy a bladder-like mass, of the size of a child's head, was seen at the back part of the abdomen, covered with a thin, smooth, and perfectly transparent coat, presenting all the appearances of the peri- toneum. It was found when opened to contain a knuckle of the small intestine. The foramen of Winslow was absent, and the stomach was in its primitive fjetal position. The ' See, in connection with this subject, The Peritoneal Covering of the Spleen and the Lig. Pleuro-colicam. (Archiv fiir Auat. und Pliys., etc., 1867, 565, Taf. xvii. A.) 2 Gruber, Zeitschrift der k. k. Gesellscliaft der Aertze zu Wien. Vierter Jahrg. Ed. ii., 432. ' Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte inner. Hernien. ■1 Union Medicale, No. 93, 18G9, cited in N. Y. Med. .Tourn., xii. 230.