718 SUPEEFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. c-OO^OOo ~ The Tarso-Metatarsal Region (posterior region) pre- sents a dorsal and a plantar surface. The dorsal surface is smaller than the plantar, and is arched to correspond to the general form of the bones of the tarsus and of the metatarsus. The belh^ of the Exte-usor Brevis Digitorum forms a soft, cushion-like mass on the lateral aspect of the dorsal surface, and exhibits, owing to the unyielding bony surface beneath it, a sensation resembling that of fluctuation, which has misled incautious prac- titioners to believe that a collection of fluid existed beneath the skin. The shin of the dorsal surface is delicate, and is imperfect!}' adapted to bear the pressure of surgical appliances. The general shape of the neck of the astragalns can be outlined when the foot is fully extended. The ijlantar surface (sole), excepting along the lateral border, where it is flat, presents the form of a low arch (hollow of the foot), whose posterior but- tress is represented in the heel, and whose anterior buttress constitutes the " ball of the toes." The shiji of the plantar surface is of great thick- ness,having an averageof threelines, though it is much thicker and of callous consistence under the heel. It is also thicker than the average, but more elastic than elsewhere over the " ball of the toes." The structure last named extends across the sole in a position analo- gous to that occupied by the transverse pad in the hand. The "ball of the toes," as the name expresses, supports the toes at their basal portions as well as the body of the foot, and corresponds nearly to the proximal three-fourths of the first row of pha- langes. The skin of the arched portion of the sole is rela- tively thin, and possesses tactile sensibility in a high degree. The lips of an incision made in the skin of the plantar surface gap to a less degree than those made upon any other portion of the integument of the body. The median border of the plantar surface merges insensibly into that of the ankle and of the dorsal surface. It presents from behind forward the follow- ing" points : The tuberosity of the calcaneum, the sus- tentaculum tali, the head of the astragalus, the cal- caneo-scaphoid ligament, and the tendon of the Tibialis Posticus muscles which, according to Chopart, in old subjects may present near its insertion a fibrous nodosity which may be mistaken for the tubercle of the scaphoid bone lying directly in front. The tuber- cle last named is found one-and-a-half inch in front of the internal malleolus. Next in order are felt the first cuneiform bone, the sesamoid bones of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis muscle, the base of the first metatarsal bone, and finally, the head of the bone last named. The lateral border from before backward exhibits the perineal tubercle (in exceptional instances this may be large and hook-like) between the Perineus Longus and Perineus Brevis tendon, the tendons of the muscles last named themselves, the anterior end of the calcaneum best felt when the foot is everted, and the conspicuous base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The cuboido-calcaneal joint lies eight lines back of this process. The soft cushion-like mass which adjoins the me- dian border is due to the Abductor Pollicis and Flexor Brevis Pollicis muscles. The analogous mass lying along the outer border is ^due to the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti muscles. The general outline of the plantar fascia can in part be determined as it lies between these two masses. The body of the foot is the seat of a number of acquired bursae, the positions of which are determined by valgus, varus, and by certain occupations. The Region of the Toes (anterior region) presents a plantar and a dorsal surface. The plantar surface of each is concave from before backward, but convex from side to side, and is marked by transverse creases which correspond in position to the interphalangeal joints. Each terminal phalanx is convex and club- shaped.—The apposed surfaces of the toes are flat and join the dorsal surface by angulated borders.—The dorsal surface of the toes exhibits a delicate skin, which resembles that of the dorsum of the tarso- metatarsal region. The first or great toe is in a line with the median border of the tarso-metatarsal region. It is commonly deflected outward in adults at the tarso-phalangeal joint, owing to the long-continued pressure of ill-fit-- ting shoes, though such deviation may be the result of interstitial arthritic change. The median surface of the articulation is often the seat of an inflamed bursa having callous walls (bunion). The second toe is a little longer than the first. It is often treated conventionally by scul]jtors as some- what shorter than the first. The fifth or little toe has a marked motion in abduction. It is commonly deformed by pressure of the shoe.