THE CORNEA. OOO^OCx 591 second line will exactly cross the position of the lachrymal sac. (c) The Capsule of Tenon. In periocular inflamma- tion, tension may be maintained by the resistance presented by the capsule. In performing operations for strabismus, it is of importance to remember that the capsule may aid in maintaining erroneous dispo- sitions of the eyeball after all the muscular bands which have been involved are divided. THE EYEBALL. The Eyeball is a subglobular figure, the periphery of which is composed of the cornea and the sclera. It is attached to the optic nerve as a berry is to its stem. The choroid coat and the retina are layers arranged concentrically to the sclera, and the vitre- ous humor and the lens occupy the interior of that portion of the eyeball defined by the sclera. The aqueous humor lies in the eyeball between the plane of the anterior termination of the sclera and the cornea. The Eyeball is thus composed of— The Cornea. The Sclera. The Iris. The Choroid. The Eetina. The Yitreous Humor. The Lens. The Aqueous Humor. THE CORNEA. The Cornea is the transparent portion of the outer covering of the eye. It forms a membranous struc- ture, which projects by a distinct sharp curvature in advance of that of the sclera. It is nearly circular in form, measuring five lines transversely, which is slightly in excess of the perpendicular diameter, and is -g-^Y to of ^" inoii in thickness (the outer edge becoming somewhat the thicker). The cornea con- stitutes about one-fifth of the periphery of the eye- ball, and is attached to the sclera as a watch crystal is set in its case. Anteriorly it is bathed by the lachrymal secretion, and posteriorly by the aqueous humor. Viewed from behind, the cornea is circular in form, and presents a sharply defined border; viewed from in front, it is more oval in form, and presents a border which insensibly merges into that of the sclerotic coat. In a section which involves both the cornea and the sclera, the border of the cornea is seen to be slightly bevelled from before backward, owing to the disposition of the sclera to overlap the cornea in front. Structure. The cornea, when studied by histolo- gical methods, presents for examination the following layers:— (1) The anterior epithelial. (2) The anterior basement membrane. (3) The proper substance of the cornea. (4) The posterior membrane. (5) The posterior epithelial. Fig. 128. Tlie plan of construction of the cornea. 0, the proper substance ; i?, ante- rior basenjent inenibraiie; D, the anterior epithelial membrane (all the cells should be nucleated) ; E, the posterior basement membrane ; F, the posterior epithelial membrane; G, cells of corneal epithelium (more highly magnified). (1) The anterior epitlielial membrane (first layer) (D, Fig. 127) is continuous with the ocular conjunctiva. The cells of the first row are columnar; the others are at first rounded, but become flattened toward the surface. (2) The anterior basement membrane (Bowman's mem- brane) (B, Fig. 127). (3) Tiie proper substance (parenchyma of the cornea) (A, C, Fig. 127) is apparently homogeneous, but under the action of reagents a complicated structure, based upon modi- fications of connective-tissue, is demonstrable. The essential features of such modifications are seen in the alternation of planes or laminte (some sixty in number), within which are recognized numbers of connective-tissue corpuscles, elongated in the lines of the lamellar planes. Indistinct interlacings of fibrils may be seen at the margins of the cornea, assuming toward the surface an oblique arrangement. Placed between the lamintB is a matrix or connecting medium containing small, flattened spaces. These are homologous with the connective-tissue spaces elsewhere. AVithin them are situated iri-egularly stellate corpuscles