THE INCISORS. '^='00^^<><X' 631. and the deciduous (milk teeth, temporary teeth). The permanent teeth are thirtj-two in number, four inci- sors (two central and two lateral), two canines, four bicuspids, and six molars in each jaw The deciduous teeth are twenty in number, four incisors, two canines, and four molars in each jaw. The teeth are so arranged in pairs %ha.t on each side of the upper and of the lower jaw one or more examples are found of the incisor, canine, bicuspid, and molar types. The teeth of the permanent set will be first de- scribed. e .t g Lower permanent teeth of the right side, a, central incisor; h, lateral incisor; c, canine tooth ; dy first bicu.spid ; e, second bicuspid ; /, flrst molar ; ff, second molar; h, third molar. Fife- 157 Permanent teeth of the left side of the upper jaw. a, central incisor; 6, lateral incisor ; e, canine tooth ; d, flrst bicuspid ; e, second bicuspid ; /, first molar; q, second molar; h, third molar. # General Characters of the Teeth.—Each tooth pre- sents for examination a crown or body, a root or fang, and a neck. The crown is the erupted portion, and is covered with enamel. The root, is imbedded in the Fig. 158. The teeth of the permanent set of a single side in apposition. alveoli of the jaws, and is covered by periosteum (odonto-periosteum, periodontium). The neck is the slightly constricted portion of the tooth which lies between the crown and the root. It is ordinarily con- cealed from view, but may become exposed in persons past middle life. THE INCISORS. The Incisors (figs. 159-1(31), or cutting teeth, are eight in number—four in each jaw. They closely Fi". 159. Fig. 160. Fig 1.53—Upper central incisor, fi-ont and side views. Fig 160.—Central incisor Jower jaw, from and back views. resemble one another, and may be described together. They present chisel-shaped crowns, which widen Fig. 161. Fis. 162. Fig. 161.—Lateral incisor lower jaw, front and side views. Fi;;. 162.—Canine of the upper jaw, front and side views. toward the cutting edge, and elongated roots, which are compressed from side to side. The median border