660 TUE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. t>00^<XX- to the portal vein and to the vena cava, and by means of the latter empties its return-blood at a part of the inferior vena cava in such close proximity to the heart, that in one sense the liver is also an appendage to the bloodvessel system. Thus, it holds a double relation, one to alimentation, and the other to san- guinification. In the last-named group of functions may be included that of glycogenesis. Its color is of a dark reddish-brown. The liver is situated in the right hypochondriac region, extending thence to the left. Above it lies the Diaphragm ; below it lie the kidney, the hepatic flexure of the colon, part of the transverse colon, the pyloric p)ortion of the stomach, and the larger part of the anterior surface of that organ. Behind it lie the inferior vena cava, the aorta, and the vertebral col- wmn ; while behind, and to the right side, and in front it is embraced by the last six or seven ribs, with their intercostal cartilages. In front the anterior ed2;e can be felt throuo-h the abdominal walls in thin persons. -The liver is chiefly fixed to the Diaphragm by intervening connective tissue; but its pendulous parts are held in position bj' folds of peritoneum termed ligaments, while the whole is buoyed up by the intestines. The relations of the liver vary according to the position of the body and the state of the lungs. When the body is recumbent, the liver ascends from one to one-and-a-half inch ; when the body is in the sitting posture, it descends. In insinration, the liver, according to Sibson, is not only lowered about half its height, but its summit is flattened—the entire organ gaining in width by being shortened from before backward. Instead of being protected by the ribs and cartilages, it is now thrown forward so as to be more prominent than the seventh or eighth costal cartilage, and the xiphoid car- tilage, by from one-half of an inch to one inch. The pra?.cordial space in expiration is somewhat resonant on percussion, but, by the .movement of the liver just noted, the percussion note over the proscordial space may become dull. In exjnradoyi the liver ascends so as to be almost entirely concealed within that portion of the abdo- men defined by the false ribs. The position of the lower border of the liver will vary in different individuals, owing to normal varia- tions in shape; it may lie two or three inches above the umbilicus; or a small portion of it only may be found to extend below the xiphoid cartilage. Ac- cordingly, the lower edge of the liver is not an infal- lible guide to the size of the organ. The liver is placed somewhat obliquely from before backward in such wise that the lower surface tends to look slightly forward as well as downward, a ten- dency which is increased by the shape of the stomach in repletion. The shape of the liver is that of the upper segment of an ovoid cut obliquely lengthwise; the larger end lying to the right, from which position it narrows toward the left in all directions. The liver measures ten to twelve inches from side to side (frontal section) by six to seven from before backward (sagittal section), and is three-and-a half inches deep. Its weight is from one and a half to four pounds. It may even reach a weight of seven and three-fourths pounds.^ The surfaces of the liver are two in number, a supe- rior and an inferior; the borders are four in number: the anterior, the posterior, the external, and the inter- nal. The superior surface is smooth and convex, and answers to the general curve of the right side of the Diaphragm; beyond this point to the left it is flat- tened ; to the right it is compressed by the ftilse ribs, and behind it is continuous with the broad excava- tion for the vena cava. The inferior surface is nearly flat, and presents a complicated relation of parts. To the left of the centre of the organ, extending across it from before backward, is the hnr/itudinal fssure, the anterior 1 D. Cuningham, Joiirn. of Aiiat. and Pliys., 1879, 509. EXPLANATION OF PLATE CIL Fig. 1. A drawing of a dried preparation, which is designed to show the ileo-caecal valve. Fig. 2. The liver, seen from beneath. Fig. 3. The liver, seen from above. Fig. 4. A diagrammatic representation of the pancreas and duodenum in position to the vertebral columns, rJbs, and the great vessels of the abdomen.