THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. -— ooo^ooo 607 THE MASTOID CELLS. The Mastoid Cells are irregular interspaces in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, communicating with the cavity of the tympanum. They form two sets; an upper or horizontal, and a lower and more irregular set. The upper are constant at all ages, but the lower are dependent upon the development of the mastoid process. Both are lined with a thin muco-periosteum, bearing flat epithelium cells, and are without glands. Not infrequently the inner wall of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone is deficient at one or more places of small extent, corresponding to the situation of the floor of the lateral sinus, thus per- mitting the dura mater and mucous lining of the mastoid cells to come in contact. Ebmarks.—The great ease with which inflamma- tion of the middle ear may in some cases extend to the membrane of the brain is explained by the direct relation of the structures. In the same way attenuation or other impairment of the outer wall of the mastoid portion will often cause emphy.sema of the submeningeal connective tissue, to follow slight injury.^ It is highly probable that the venous hemorrhage, which sometimes occurs from the outer ear, after blows upon the occiyjut, comes from the lateral sinus, and reaches the middle ear by fracture of the bone about tlie mastoid cells. THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. The Eustachian Tube (figs. 2 and 5, Plate XCVII., fig. 4, Plate XCVIII.) is the passage between the pharynx and the tympanic chamber. It passes out- ward and a little upward and backward, and measures from eighteen to twenty lines in length. The tube is divided into two portions: the osseous and the carti- laginous. The line of junction of the two portions is slightly angulated.—The osseous portion is inclosed between the pars tympanica in front, the anterior wall of the carotid canal behind, and the teijmen tympani and the groove for the Tensor Tympani muscle above. It is fourteen lines in length, two lines in diameter, and represents one-fourth to one-third the entire length of the tube. It begins by a sub-elliptical orifice at the antero-inferior portion of the tympanic chamber, and terminates abruptly in a spinous pro- cess opposite to or a little in advance of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone.—The memhranous pjortxon ' Hyrtl, Sitzuiigsbei ichte der Kais. Akad., 1858, 252. is about an inch in length, and lies in a groove formed between the anterior wall of the carotid canal on the one side, and the posterior border of the horizontal portion of the great wing of the sphenoid bone on the other. Between these two portions is the sphe- noido-petrosal fissure. The groove terminates oppo- site the posterior free edge of the inner plate of the pterygoid process. The membranous portion is held in position by dense fibrous tissue, which is continuous with that lying in the sphenoido-petrosal fissure and elsewhere at the base of the skull.' The essential feature in this portion of the tube is its cartilage. This is a sub involuted plate (tubal cartilage), composed for the most part of pure hyaline cartilage. It is narrow at its junction with the bony portion, but gradually increases in size toward the pharyngeal end. The cartilaginous portion is from this peculi- arity much wider toward the pharynx than toward the tympanum, and has received the name of the salpinx or trumpet. At its tympanic extremity, the cartilage lies for the most part upon the sphenoidal side of the groove, but through the greater portion of its course it is related to the carotid side. It is curved above to form the roof of the passage, and is thence abruptly deflected a short distance along the sphenoidal side, where it terminates. From this fact the cartilage is often called the hook cartilage. The floor of the tube and the remaining portion of the sphenoidal boundary are membranous. They are, however, strengthened at the pharyngeal end by the Tensor Palati and Levator Palati muscles. From the intimate relation of the above muscles with the tube, Riidinger proposes to call this the muscular portion. Occasionally tlie rouiulcd end of the inferior tin-binafed bone extends to the opening of the tube so as to cover it. In the child the tube is horizontal, the osseous part is comparatively long, the isthmus small, and the pharyngeal orifice large. The mucous membrane of the tube is separated from the cartilage by a thin layer of connective tissue, which gradually becomes thicker toward the pharynx. The tube is almost completely without glands toward the tympanic end, but is thick, cushiony, and richly supplied with racemose glands toward the pharyn- geal end. The epithelium is throughout ciliated, and the movements of the cilia are so directed that the tendency is from the tympanic chamber toward the 1 The tube may be described as having a tympanic («'. e., outer), a pharyngeal (inner), a carotid (posterior), and a sphenoidal (anterior) portion.