727 THE SKIN. OOO^CXXJ sebaceous glands, having a single duct. During cliildiiood the ducts multiply, by which an increased growth of the entire gland is implied. Remarks.—The mammary gland is remarkable for the periodicity of its functional activity. In the foetus it ass'sts in secreting the sebaceous matter (ver- nix caseosa) which protects the skin of the embryo from dangers of maceration. This phase of activity, as a rule, persists for a short time after birth, and may determine congestion and even suppurative in- flammation about the nipple. During infancy (with the exception of the few days indicated) and childhood the glands are inactive, but in the female, toward puberty, they enlarge, and in the period extending be- tween the fifteenth and the forty-fifth year are capable of assuming great increase in size and in function. After the forty-fifth year, at a time corresponding to the cessation of the menstrual period, the glands cease to secrete, and undergo atrophy of the cellular ele- ments. At tliis period they are liable to incursions of morbid action, notably from carcinoma. Tlie lymphatics of the axilla are usually involved in advanced states of malignant growths. Galacto- cele arises from the accumulation and retention of milk in the lactiferous ducts. THE SKIN. The Skin (integument, cutis') is a sheet-like elas- tic covering to the superficies of the body. It is designed to protect the delicate underlying structures, to permit of the exudation and absorption of liquids, to conserve animal heat, and to accommodate the organs of touch, the sebaceous glands, and the sweat- glands. The hair and nails are appendages to the skin which supports them. The skin is composed of two great divisions, the dermic and the epidermic. The dermic layer is subdivided into the papillary and the reticular layers; and the einchrmic layer into the spinous, granular, lucid, and cuticular layers. The Derm (true skin, cutis vera, corium) is com- posed for the most part of interlacing fibrous bands, which gives the skin in great part its thickness, and to which its protective value is due. It ac- commodates the papilla?, the sweat-glands, the se- V)aceous glands, the hair-follicles, and receives the bloodvessels, nerves, and lymphatics. The true skin is composed of two 'principal portions, which, how- ever, merge into each other: ?i 2Mpillary Z(7?/er (super- ' See also, p. 37. ficial layer), which receives the papillge, and is made up of a compact arrangement of fibrous tissue; and a reticular layer (deep layer), which is composed of coarser fibres; these fibres form reticulations for the retention of firm aggregation of fat-cells (panniculus adiposus). The reticular layer gradually passes into the fat of the subcutaneous connective tissue. The papillte are widely distributed, though they may be absent in some areas. They are best devel- oped on the palms, the palmar aspects of the digits, the clitoris, the penis, the nymphte, and the nipples, where they are elongated; upon the face they are shorter. They are well-developed in the negro (see Fig. 196). The papillge of the skin are small, short, conical, or sub-conical elevations of connective - tissue fibrillte which accommodate the tactile corpuscles or loops of bloodvessels and lymphatic vessels The papillae vary in form ; when several are united to a common base, the term compoundpajnllse designates them. The papillary bodies are arranged in folds and ridges which are of great delicacy and intricacy. They are best developed upon the palmar surfaces of the fingers and the plantar surfaces of the toes. Ac- cording to H. P. Bowditch, they are of constant value in the individual, and aid in the study of the identifi- cation of the body. Fig. 196. •SI J Horizontal section tlu'ouf^li the sealp of a negro, i?, Spinous layer ; Pi. row of colunjnar epitlielinin surrounding the papiUx ; Pa, papi'la cut transversely ; D, papiUary layer of the true skin. The Epidermic Division is divided into four laj'Crs, as already n>entioned, the spinous, the granular, the lucid, and the cuticular layer.—The spinous layer (prickle layer, mucous layer, rete Malpighii, stratum spinosum) is the deepest of the layers, and lies di- rectly upon the papillae. Near the true skin the cells of this laver are cylindrical in form. The cells throughout are remarkable for retaining numbei's of r