734 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. C'OO^OCX:' It presents for examination—' The Anterior Thoracic Region. The Posterior Thoracic Region. The Anterior Thoracic Region.—The anterior aspect of the chest is continuous with the median surface of the upper extremity by the line of distri- bution of some of the nerves and lymphatic vessels common to both localities, e. g.^ the intercosto-humeral nerve, and by the range of the lymphatic trunks from the arm to the sides of the chest at the axilla. For convenience in description, any line desired for purposes of description in locating a wound, a growth, distribution of eruptions, or for other clinical pur- poses, can be referred to a line drawn downward from the sternal, middle, and acromial portions of the clavicle, or at any intermediate point. Thus the guides to the superficial anatomy of the chest are three in number, the clavicle, the sternum, and the ribs. The clavicle constitutes the most important of these guides. It furnishes a main line—the mamviary line —which is drawn downward from the clavicle in such direction as to traverse the front of the chest through the nipple. The stermim affords a median line for the anterior thoracic region, to which bilateral parts can be re- ferred. This line is of especial use in reporting results of post-mortem examinations, and in locating tumors in the anterior mediastinal space. The ribs are verv generally used in locating clinical conditions. The determination of the ribs from above downward, aided by the position of the sternal line and of the clavicular line, will give any selected locality with sufficient exactness. The axillary line of Conradi extends from the origin of the Scalenus Posticus to the free end of the tenth rib. The anterior thoracic region is divided into vari- ous divisions which are purely arbitrary in character, and need not be here outlined. Among the localities which are sufficiently well defined for the most part by the titles, are the sternal region, which corre- sponds to the position of the sternum (sterno-costal region); the infra-clavicular region, which answers to the space bounded above by the lower margin of the clavicle, and below by a line extended hori- zontally outward from the upper margin of the ster- num, and which at its lateral limit corresponds to the summit of the axillary space; the mammary re- gion, which answers to the position of the mammary ' Ricliet divides the chest into the main divisions of sternal or anteiior wall; costal or lateral wall; and diapljraginatic wall. gland; and the infra-mammary region (diaphragmatic region, nearly), which extends from the lower margin of the Pectoralis Major in the male, and from the lower border of the mammary gland in the female, to the ninth rib. The shin of the anterior thoracic region is much thinner than the posterior. It is tense and but slightly movable over the sternum, and presents, when compared with the skin of other regions, low reparative power. The lips of an incision made in this region tend markedly to separate one from the other. In caries of the sternum the skin is inflamed, and may be ulcerated to an extent almost equalling the surface involved by the disease itself. The skin over the mammary region increases in delicacy as it approaches the nipple, and becomes darker in color. It is apt to be fissured in lactating women. A number of the diseases of the nipple have their origin in the same peculiarity of the skin. Thus the nipple is liable to eczematous affections, and to a peculiar form of cancerous involvement. The skin of the mammary region is smooth in the child and in the virgin, but becomes wrinkled in the woman who has borne children.—At the sides of the chest, namely, about the parts traversed by the axillary line, the skin, owing to the lines of traction of the Pectoralis Major, Pectoralis Minor, and Latissimus Dorsi mus- cles and the scapula, is very mobile. The course xjf the superficial nerves as they pass obliquely down- ward and forward on the side of the chest is outlined by crops of vesicles in herpes zoster. The structures which can be located beneath the skin are liable to some variation according to the age and the condition of health of the subject. In average states of the adult the anterior sur- face of the sternum can be outlined as well as the costal cartilages; the ribs can be also felt. The most conspicuous muscle is, of course, the Pecto- ralis Major; next in order appear the fifth, sixth, and seventh digitations of the Serratus Magnus. The landmarks of the lower portion of the chest, especially at the sides, also vary, particularly in females, in which class of subjects the lower ribs are often dis- torted by long-continued use of corsets.—Jacobi^ has directed attention to a bursa over the xyphoid car- tilage in rachitic children.—Of the mammary gland, and the lower border of the thorax and attached muscles, see the accounts of this gland and the thorax. The Posterior Thoracic Region is naturally a part of ' Am. Journ. Obstet., 1875, viii. 165.