OEGANS OF SENSE. 626 =x>o^c>oo — papilla? vary in number from ten to twenty, and are arranged in two lines which diverge obliquely. A median groove jjlaced behind the circuravallate papil- Ige-has received the name of the foramen csecum. It may be absent or be double. A number of racemose glands may open in or about it. The ca2)itate pai)illse are small and rounded, and are scattered over the tongue without special regularity, in a measure preserving the oblique direction behind, but slightlj' aggregated toward the tip. It is thought that within these the tactile sense of the organ chiefly resides. The conical jjapillse are the most numerous. They are arranged in lines which are parallel to the cir- cumvallate papillae in the neighborhood of these structures, but gradually become more transverse as the tip of the tongue is approached. They are covered with hair-like extensions of epithelial cells; hence the name often given them of filiform papillaj. The '■'■fur''''- of the tongue is due to changes in these cells or to adherent foreign matters. Bloodvessels.—The arteries of the tongue are derived from the lingual branch of the external carotid. They are remarkable for their large size, compared with that of the organ which they supply, and for the limited communication between the vessels of the two sides. Hyrtl demonstrates this anastomosis at but two points: one near the position of the circumvallate papillae, and the other toward the tip of the tongue. An insignificant superficial artery lying along the line of the raph^ would be the only vessel divided by a median incision upon the dorsum. The veins accompany the arteries and descend to join the internal jugular vein. The branches beneath the tongue are especially conspicuous when the tip is directed to the roof of the mouth. The extreme vascularity of the tongue has occa- sioned frightful loss of blood when the vessels have been opened in the course of the sloughing of cancer, as well as in non-malignant ulcerations extending into the tongue from the throat.^ In the operation of dividing the frasnum linguse, the ranine arteries, by which name the abrupt terminal branches of the lin- gual artery are known, may be divided. Cruikshank is quoted^ as having divided the fraenum in a child which was discovered some time after the operation to be dead from loss of blood. An enormous coagulum was found in the stomach. Owing to the distribution of the lingual arteries, each to its own side, unilateral glossitis may occur. Graves^ has recorded a typical instance of the kind occurring in a medical student. The left half of the tongue was affected, and was so enlarged that the mouth could scarcely be closed; while the right side of the organ was in all respects normal. After an injection of a solution of perchloride of iron into an epulis growing from the gum of the lower jaw, acute inflammation of the superficial veins of the tongue has been excited. The numerous in- stances of rapid serous infiltration of the supra-hyoid space can be accounted for only when the course of the lino'ual veins is considered.^ The nerves of the tongue.—The sensory nerves are derived from the lingual and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The lingual nerve supplies approximately the anterior two-thirds of the organ and the glosso-pharyngeal the posterior third. Some of the terminations of each of the above-mentioned nerves are associated with re- markable organs known as taste-buds (taste-cells).— The motor nerve of the tongue is the hypoglossal. Fiff. 155. Taste-ceUs of the toii^aie. Variations The tongue is subject to many interesting variations. Tiie entire organ may be too short, and the tip of the tongue cannot be brought readily against the roof of the mouth near the incisor teeth. The organ may be larger than is normal, and protrude from the mouth, caus- ing great deformity in the position of the lower teeth. The condition known as " tongue-tie" is implied when the tip of the tongue is held to the floor of the mouth by a short and inextensive frajnum. Tongue-tie interferes with the prehensile power of the tongue, and is enumerated among the causes of stammering. The dorsal curve of tiie tongue normally corresponds to the curve of the under surfaces of the hard palate and of the soft palate It is probable that minute congenital defects in the tongue, which interfere with the easy adaptation of the tongue to the palate, may also be among the causes of indistinct articulation and of stuttering. The tongue may be asymmetrical, not only from ' Amer. -lourn. Med. Sci., series 1, 26, 193. 2 Bell, Institutes of Surgery. ' Dublin Hosp. Rep., iv. 43. 2 Holthonse, Trans. Clin. Soc. Lond., ii. 140.