THE EXCRETOEY APPARATUS. — <><><>^<>o-o 701 seventeen, tlie riglit in four. The kidney at birth contains crystals of urate of soda.—The detection of such crystals has no value in forensic medicine, since they are by no means confined to the foetal gland, but may be found as late as the forty-fourth day.' — The absence of one kidney may be associated with anomalies of the sexual apparatus. O. Beu- mer' found as a result of an analysis of forty-eight cases tliat one-half were in males. Remarks.—A correct impression of the relations of the kidney is often important in interpreting the effects of lesions in the loins. Thus, from the fra- gility of the organ, rupture of the gland substance may follow indirect violence. The clot of blood which forms after such accidents lies between the kidney and the peritoneum anteriorly, and has been known to form a tumor of sufficient size to press against the colon and to interfere with the passage of the feces. It is hardly possible that the colon should altogether escape severe local pressure from the fact that it overlies and is close to the injured renal organ.^ The relations of the right kidney to the liver may determine the site of pain in nephritis by the descent of the liver in inspiration, as suggested by Cruveilhier. The organ may be pushed downward by an enlarged liver.* The extensive communications of the connective tissue about the organ with remote points determine the directions which pus may take in suppurative peri-nephritis. Thus the pus may pass downward along tlie course of the Psoas muscle {q. v.), and appear at the groin; or upward between the pillars of the Diaphragm, where it may cause adhesions to form between the layers of the pleura; or may penetrate the pleural cavity and even empty into the bronchial tubes. In a case recorded by Renard,^ a penetrating gun- shot wound of the trunk involved the right kidney and caused a urinary fistule to be established through the wound of exit. An abscess subsequently formed within the right lung which communicated by several openings through the Diaphragm with the upper por- tion of the kidney. The patient survived ninety days. According to A. B. Duffin,^ the position of the thigh in peri-nephritic abscess differs from that seen in ' J. Hodann, Vierteljahrsschrift fiir gerichtl. und offentl. Med- ecin, 1855, 33. 2 Vircliow's Arcliiv, 1878, 344. 8 Jno. Hilton, Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1867, 17. Rayer, Traite des Mai. des Reins, 799. « Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1861, 202. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1873, 138. psoas abscess in the circumstance that the pelvis is tilted " up to the utmost in peri-nephritic abscess in order to relax the lumbar fold." THE EXCRETORY APPARATUS. The Excretory Apparatus of the kidnev begins bv numbers of membranous tubes which embrace the papilla) and secure attachment to the free projecting portions of the pyramids. These have received the name of the lesser calices. They quickly unite to form two or three separate convergent portions, the greater calices (infundibula), and these terminate in a pouch-shaped expausion of the ureter, termed the pelvis of the kidney. The remaining portion of the excretory channel, namely, that lying between the pelvis and the bladder, constitutes the iireter. The Ureter is a membranous tube from fourteen to eighteen inches in length, extending downward and inward, so as to lie obliquely across the psoas fascia. At the margin of the true pelvis the ureter crosses the origin of the common iliac vessels, at times on the right side the origin of the external iliac artery only. The spermatic vessels lie in front of the ureter, and, near its termination in the male, the vas deferens lies to the inner side. The right ureter lies close to the outer side of the inferior vena cava. The ureter, as it lies within the pelvis, is four-and- three-quarters inches (twelve cm.) long. The left ureter crosses the left common iliac artery about three-quarters of an inch (one-and-a-half cm.) above its termination, and is a little nearer the median line than is the right. Within the true pelvis the ureters rapidly converge and narrow in calibre till they enter obliquely the inferior portion of the posterior surface of the bladder, each by a small slit-like orifice from one-and-a-half to two inches from its fellow. The oblique direction of the ureter through the wall of the bladder has the effect of a valve in pre- venting regurgitation of urine from the bladder. In the female the ureter at the last portion of its course lies between the neck of the uterus and the bladder, and hence that portion engaged within the walls of the last-named structure is liable to be compressed by the neck of the uterus. Luschka affirms that in pregnancy a physiological dilatation of the ureters results from this relation. Structure.—The minute structure of the ureter shows an external fibrous layer, a middle layer of longitudi- nal and circular muscular fibres, and an inner or