596 ORGANS OF SENSE. :>00^0^0 single iris Tiie iris is subject to slight variation in its position. Tiie portion of the ii'is resting on the lens lies a little in advance of the remaining portion of the iris, the exact degree of prominence being determined by the shape of the lens; thus it is less prominent in myopia tlian in hypermetropia. Remabks.—The choroid membrane, by reason of the slight attachment existing between it and the point of entrance of the optic nerve, as well as by reason of the powerful contraction of the ciliary muscle, is, as the result of long-sustained contraction of the muscle, pulled forward. Inspection of the interior of the eye with the ophthalmoscope will often exhibit crescentic figures of a white color outlined at the margin of the optic papilla, as the result of this forward traction exerted upon the choroid membrane. The white color represents the amount of exposure of the sclera, thus deprived of the choroidal lining. Ophthalmologists term these lesions the effects of " choroidal drag." They are typically expressed in neglected cases of hyperme- tropia. The disposition of the choroidal vessels is believed by E. Jaeger^ to hold a direct relation to the localiza- tion of the effects of malnutrition. Thus, the retina, as a consequence of the arrangement of the vessels in the choroid membrane, is liable to invasion by dis- eased action (such, for example, as the effects often seen in the eye from Bright's disease of the kidney); this action is localized in areas, which are limited by the subdivision of the choroidal vessels them- selves. Jaeger defines these areas as follows : "One composed of the arterial circle of Zinn, which sur- rounds the optic papilla; another formed by the arteria centralis retinje, which supplies the retina; another composed of the short posterior ciliary arte- ries, which supply the posterior half of the choroid membrane; and still another composed of the long ciliary arteries, which supply the iris and the ante- rior half of the choroid membrane ; the short ante- rior ciliary arteries also take part in the formation of this area."2 The iris, in clinical as in anatomical studies, may be considered as a specialized portion of the choroid membrane. It is a membranous sphincter, whose function is to determine the amount of light which enters the eyeball. The pupil is contracted in accom- modation for near objects, ar.d in sleep. Hence, the pain that follows attempts at inspection of minute 1 Ergebnisse der Untersuchung. mit dem Augenspiegel, etc., 1876, 16. 2 A. G. Heyl, Med. News, 1884, xv. 327. objects in irritated states of the iris, and the dispo- sition to nocturnal exacerbations of pain in iritis. The pupil is dilated in accommodation for far objects. A portion of the iris is excised in the operation for extraction of cataract, and for the arrest of glaucoma. It may by abnormal processes become adherent to the cornea, and be prolapsed by the effects of wounds, etc. The ciliary muscle is devoted to the special work of modifying the shape of the crystalline lens (see account of the lens, p. 598). In extreme and long- sustained irritation, as in hypermetropia, numerous reflex characteristic symptoms arise. The muscle itself undergoes hypertrophy, as is represented in the accompanying sketch, fig. 135. Fig. 135. Section of the ciliary body, showing the hypertroiihy of the circular fibres of the ciliary muscle in hypermetropia. 1, the radiate fibres of the ciliary muscle ; 2, the sclera ; 4, the circular fibres of the ciliary muscle; 5, the ii is ; 6, the canal of Schlemm. In diminished traction of the ligament of the lens, as is noted in myopia, the muscle presents an appear- ance which is in marked contrast to that of hyperme- tropia, the circular fibres being rudimental or absent, as is seen in fig. 136. THE RETINA. The Retina is the inner tunic of the eyeball, and immediately surrounds the vitreous body. It is a transparent membrane of a delicate pink color during life. It measures in thickness from the ^^Qth of an inch anteriorly to the -^fjlh. of an inch posteriorly. The retina is in connection behind with the optic