771 GEMMATION. homologous; and the anvil to be a part of equal value to it, in the hyoidean arch. Other writers assign the stapes also a place in the succeeding arch. Urbant- schitsch, however, following Rathke and Valentin, believes that the nrialleus and incus develop within the same primitive bud or outgrowth, and are related, if with any, only with the mandibular arch.^ How- ever the question of the homologies of the ossicles may be settled, the claim that in their ranges of variation they correlate with the structures evolved from the visceral arches is in no way invalidated. B) THE FORCES (LAWS OF MORPHOLOGY) UNDERLYING CONGENITAL MALFORMATION. (1) GEMMATION. By gemmation is meant a process of budding. Originally observed in plant-life, it has been found a constant phenomenon of the coral and coral-like ani- mals,' and in the early stages of life of all animals. Buds, or gemmae, are ordinarily projected from the sides of a trunk or the main body; but they may arise from the interior of an organ bv a process of involu- tion. The former variety of gemmation is illustrated in the growth of limbs, and the latter variety in the growth of hydatids, etc. In some varieties of insect life, as in the plant louse (Aphis), the process of internal budding is seen. The ovary of the mature female is actively engaged ift developing buds, wh:ch assume the form of the pa- rent, and becoming detached, descend the oviduct, and escape in the shape of living offspring. It is an easy transition from this perfect example of physiological budding to the phenomena attending the formation of new tissues of a separate individual in the various tissues of more complex living bodies. Gemmation may be assumed to take place for the most part in the early history of the embryo, and at a time before the apj^earance of nerve-centres, and nerves which control and modify the processes of nutrition. Buds arising in the plastic tissues of the early stage of general development can fuse with one another, or split up into numbers of coequal parts, according to the retardation or activity of the nutri- tive processes themselves. Gemmation in many lower animals is an act which may continue through life, but in man and vertebrates generally it is confined to the embryonic period. A familiar illustration of a bud in the development of the human embryo, is the stalk of the optic tract. ' Corals, hydroids. The pituitary body is a bud from the base of the brain. The origin of ducts of glands appended to the alimentary canal and the origin of the respiratory apparatus are also buds. Buds may be assumed in general language to be synonymous with appendages. Thus limbs are the appendages of the trunk, and at the same time they are buds which spring from the trunk. Remarks.—In teratology numerous examples are presented by the operation of the law of gemmation. These may be divided into instances of external and of internal gemmation. -r . in i- ( Dermoid Cyst, internal Gemmation. J ^ , { Fcetus by Inclusion. Tj, , , ^ . ( Double Monster. Jlixternal Gemmation. ( Malformed Limbs. Internal gemmation is illustrated in the dermoid cysts and in foetus by inclusion. Dermoid cyst. A number of cases are on record of tumors of the ovary, pituitary body or other parts, which were found to contain hair, teeth, mingled with horn, fat, and nerve-matter. They are thought to originate by a process of aberrant budding from those portions of the embryo in which they subsequently appear.* Foetus hy inclusion. Foetus by inclusion (foetus in foetu) includes those growths which contain portions of a second foetus or embryo, in such manner that within a fcetus, which is in other respects normal, portions of a second individual exist. The tumors are met with in the scrotum, the heart, the lower end of the trunk, and even in the head, and are found to con- tain more or less complete parts of an embryo. The masses probably represent one individual of double monstrosity, which by some means has be- come subordinated to its stronger associate, and at an early period of development has been embraced by it. It is well to state that in the judgment of some writers the presence of a tumor of the kind above described does not necessitate the process of a mon- strous growth; but that even complicated organs are capable of developing themselves in parts of the body where normally they do not e.xist.^ ' See W. W. Wagstaffe, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond. xxix., 1878, 194. 2 See Lebert, Traite d'Auat. Path., i. ; and Foulis, Ediii. Med. Journ., 1876, 839.—For the general literature of scrotal inclusion, see Verneuil, Archiv. Gen. de Med., 1855, i.-ii. ; A. Jacob, Dublin Hosp. Rep., iv., 1827, 571 ; Cruveilhier, Path. Gen. i. 370; W. H. Van Buren, N. Y. Med. Journ., ii., 1866, 355 ; W. Macewen, Glas- gow Med. Journ., n. s., x., 1878, 433.