CANAL. 668 THE ALIMENTARY Entrance of projectile from hehind. 4. Entrance between the 9lh and 10th right ribs; exit to right of ensif'orm cartilage. 5. P]nt)ance 2 inclies from vertebral colnmn on right side on level with 12th dorsal vertebra ; exit a short distance from the ensi- form cartilage on the right at the lower border of tlie liver. 6. Entrance 4 inches above crest of the ilium G inches from the ver- tebral column. 7. Near lumbar vertebra' through the last inferior right rib. ;XX>^OC«3- Penetrating mounds. 1. Bayonet wound under left false ribs perpendicular to gladiolus, 2 inches above hip ; 1 in. wide ; course obliquely upward and in- waid. 2. 1 inch broad on left side of breast. 3. Knife-wound 1 inch long, ^ wide, on left side of thorax. 4. Sabre wound of left side 5 inches over the crest of ilium to the middle of the 3d false I'ib. 5. Wound between 7th and 8th ribs on right side obrupiely down- wards. 6. Sword-wound on right side be- tween 8th and 9th ribs. 7. Fencing-foil wound between 8tli and 9th ribs, 3 to 4 lines wide. 8. Transverse wound of right side between 9th and 10th ribs. 9. Bayonet wound between 10th and 11th ribs, right side. 10. Sword-wound on antero-lateral surface of riglit liypochondrium two fingers'-breadth under false ribs. 11. Knife wound of right side of ab- domen, 3 inches long, | in. wide 12. 4 in. deep wound in the pra3Cor- dium obliquely upwards. Viscera wounded. Pi'olapsus of lung Y thi'ough wound ; } wound of liver. Right lobe of the liver. Liver. Right kidney ; ball lodged -5^ inch in liver. Viscera ivonnded. Colon, stomach, left lobe of liver, Diaphragm, right ventricle, and right lung. Left lobe of liver, and outer layer of stomach. Diaphragm, liver. Right ventricle. Diaphragm, left lobe of liver, stomach, spleen, descending colon. Diaphragm and liver. Right lobe of liver, right lobe of lung, right supra-renal capsule and Dia- ])hragm ; liver. Diaphragm and liver. Liver and Dia- phragm. Liver. Right lobe of the liver. Liver. Concave surface left lobe of liver. Variations.—The left lobe of the liver may extend entirely across the abdomen (Gruber). Remarks.—The clinical applications of a knowl- edge of the anatomy of the liver are both nutnerons and important. They relate to the parenchyma and to the relations of the viscus. The jjarenrliyma of the liver in its manner of re- sponse to injury bears a close resemblance to that of the spleen. The capsule may be intact in cases where the paren- chyma has been the seat of extensive laceration.^ The liver is frequently contused in falls from lofty places, and as the result of such circumstances has been found torn in half without any lesion of the skin over the organ.^ The clinical study of the relations of the liver can be embraced under the following heads: (a) to the Diaphragm ; (h) to the peritoneum ; (c) to the stomach, colon, and duodenum ; [d) to the pericardium and the heart; (e) to the bloodvessels; (/) to the biliary ducts and to the gall-bladder ; {<j) to the structures about the left lobe. (ff) Hydatids or abscess of the liver may discharge through the Diaphragm into the right pleural cavity. Out of 189 cases of hepatic hydatid, 81 had so dis- charged (Frerichs), and out of 300 cases of hepatic abscess reported by Waring 42 opened into the tho- racic cavity.^ When adhesions have involved the base of the lung the hydatid mass or the pus may be discharged by the bronchial tubes. Fatal pleurisy may result from the upward pressure of a hydatid tumor of the liver without perforation of the Diaphragm.* The connective-tissue interval between the liver and the Diaphragm may be the seat of an abscess, as recorded by Bright.' From its relation to the abdominal parietes the liver—being forced in inspiration from above down- ward—is liable to compression, 'which indirectly aids in hepatic circulation. More particularly such com- pression will assist in forcing blood from the capilla- ries into the radicals of the hepatic vein. J. Hilton^ infers that the hepatic congestion which is apt to follow enforced rest in bed in individuals who have previ- ously led active lives is due to the sudden withdravval of this abdonainal and diaphragmatic pressure. ' Pollock, Hobnes's Sys. of Surg., iii. 41(j. 2 L. S. Smith, Lancet, 1861, 208. " Mnrcliisoii, 175. " Ibid. 63. 5 Clinical Menioii-s on Abdominal Tumors, Syd. Soc. 6 On Rest aiid Pain, 231, 1877. :d., 257.