772 EMBEYOLOGY AND THE STUDY OF M A LF O EM A T10 N S. — ooo^ooo—. External gemmation is illustrated in teratology in the formation of portions of a second individual, wbich are appended to the main body—double mon- sters—or in the explanation of supernumerary limbs or parts of limbs. Dov.hle Monsiers.-—The appended portions of a second individual embrace tumors which do not ordi- narily contain the central cavities of the body, and which account for those peripheral structures, con- genital in character, which contain bone, nerve, fat, etc., of a second foetus. A ditierence of degree alone exists between the class of tumors just denominated, and the presence of a foetus or portion of a foetus appended to the peri- phery of the body. In this way it is thought all forms of duplication of parts may be accounted for, whether the part be small, and not materially interfere with the usual outline, or be so pronounced as to give the ex- pression of supernumerary limbs, portion of heads or trunks, or even an entire body, which is united to the main form by a narrow band or pedicle. It is well to assume that each embryo possesses a separate yolk-sac or vitellus. If the tendency to dupli- cation of parts extended from the blastoderm through the vitellus, two or more individuals could readily arise from a single ovum; a phase of generation commonly met with in many insects, in jelly-fishes, and related animals. Nothing similar to such division is, how- ever, known to occur in vertebrated creatures. Twins are thought to arise from double conception. /. e., the result of development in two separate eggs. Double monsters are often spoken of as " twins.'' The terra "twin" is in this sense a convenient one only, and has no exact signification. A twin, strictly speaking, is one of two born at a birth. A double monster is a single individual, and as such arises from a single blastodermic membrane overlying a single vitellus. Of all such united "twins," or nearly coequal du- plicated persons, one individual is always the smaller. The larger frame will represent the main body, or, as the comparative anatomist would express it, the parent-stoch. Double monsters are of two kinds, those united along some part of the ventral aspects, and those united either by the crowns of the head or by the dorsal aspects. The normal head-fold, in place of forming a loop, uniting the medullary folds, may be incomplete, and permit the corresponding extremity of each fold to remain distinct.' Under some circum- ' This has been observed by Prof. S. F. Clarke in the Ambys- toma puiietata, a fresh water salamander of the United States. Stances each fold will develop the parts of a perfect head, while the remaining portions will approximate and produce between them the dominating portions of a single individual. In this way a double-headed animal (Diprosopus, Dicephalus) may originate. Or the folds (separated by the lack of formation of the head-fold) may not tend to approximate, but remain distinct throughout their entire length, forming the basis of such forms of double monsters as Pygopagus. In each of the foregoing examples, and in all inter- mediate forms, the vitellus remains unchanged. Hence, each portion of the egg, while presenting a double pair of parts, evolving the central nervous system and limbs, tends to have in common the organs of the chest and abdomen. The malformations due to irregular formation of a single head-fold afid adjacent parts will now be con- sidered. Under the impress of some unknown trophic condition the head-fold or medullary folds develop atypicaliy. The head-fold may fail to unite the two medullary folds. Under this condition the latter do not approxi- mate. A group of modifications based upon the above follow where the folds may approximate and join, and from the point or points at which they do so the parts of a single individual arise. Thus, if the folds remain distinct throughout their entire length, the embryos are united by their ventral surfaces only, and have more or less of the imperfectly divided abdominal and thoracic chambers in common. But at the points of embrj'^onal contact of the medullary folds there exist, in addition to the great visceral chamber, a single back-bone and central nervous sys- tem (Thoracopagus). In one of the most remarkable examples of double monster on record—the Siamese twins—the bond of union was much smaller than is ordinarily seen. But its position was strictly ventral, and contained hepatic tissue which seemed to unite the two livers. It follows that the proper position in which to study a specimen of united twins of this kind) is face to face, no matter what the position acquired during life may have been. One umbilical cord and placenta are present. The head-fold may be normal, while the medullary folds fail to approximate, and each one develops a separate individual; the result is a single-headed two-bodied individual, forming the basis of such forms of double monster as Pygopagus (Synence- phalus). The medullary folds may be joined for the greater part of their length.