756 THE STUDY OF MALFOEMATIONS. EMBRYOLOGY AND — ooo^ooo B. Incomplete formation of skull and vertebral column. Cyclopia (Monopsia, Monophthalmia). Hydrops canalis medullaris. Anencephalus (Amyelie) (Fig. 223). Hemicrania (Fig. 224). Cranioschisis (Rliacliischisis). Hydrencephalocele (Hydromecele) (Fig. 225). Hydrorhachis (Hydrocephalus) (Fig. 226). Micrencephalis (Cretinisin). Partial defects of brain and of the spinal cord. C. Incomplete formation of the face. ^ Agnathus (Fig. 227). I Schistoprosopus (Aprosopus). I nv,o^ir^c-r,i-,ic-i"o Gnathoschisis. Palato- Cheiloschisis. I schisis. r Synchelia. Microstomia. i Micrognathia (Atelognathia). ^ Achelia (Microchelia, Bachychelia). Aglosia. Microglossia. Schistoglossia. D. Incomplete formation of the neck. Fistula colli congenita. E. Defects and atresia of the chest. C Defects of the thorax. -<! — of the mamma. I — of the lung and the heart. Defects and atresia of the oesophagus, the larynx, the trachea. F. Incomplete formation of the abdomen. r Arrest of development of the abdominal I wall, etc. I Incomplete develoi^ment of the abdom- l inal wall. Umbilical hernia. Inversion of bladder, ectrophy of blad- der. Forms of cloacal retention. With the abdominal wall and the bladder split. With the bladder alone split. The bladder entire. Complex forms. Simple forms. While such a classification of defects may serve for purposes of identificatiou and for the arrange- ment of cabinets, it serves imperfectly its purpose as a guide to their separate study. The ensuing pages will treat of the manner by which specimens of con- genital or other defect can be most advantageously undertaken by the student. Every specimen should, when it is practicable, be carefully dissected, and from a single specimen of monstrosity several instructive anatomical preparations may be obtained. The arrangement of the subject-matter in this por- tion of the book will be as follows:— (A) The parts of the emhryo {Teratohgical Regions) in ivhich defects occur. The teratological regions are six in number. (1) The Blastodermic Membrane and its three Layers. (2) The Region of the central Nervous System and of the Vertebral Column. (3) The Region of the Alimentary Tract and of the Body Wall. (4) The Region of the Omphalo-Mesenteric Tract and of the Allantois and Placenta. (5) The Region of the Genito-urinary Appa- ratus. (6) The Region of the Heart and the Visceral Arches. (B) The forces (Lcnvs of Morphology) which underlie congenital malformation. (1) Gemmation. (2) Parts which are arranged in Serial Order, (3) In illustration of the law of Reversion. (4) In illustration of the law of Symmetry. (A) THE PARTS OF THE EMBRYO (TERATOLOGICAL regions) in which DEFECTS OCCUR. (1) The Blastodermic Membrane and its three Layers.—The ovum possesses a thick transparent wall called the vitelline membrane or zona pellucida. Within this and forming the great portion of its contents is a semi homogeneous substance termed the yolk or vitellus. Lodged in the vitellus, but out of its centre, is a rounded nucleus-like substance termed the germinal vesicle; and within this again a nucleolus-like particle, the germinal spot. Soon after the escape of the egg from the ovary and before impregnation, the germinal vesicle and germinal spot disappear ; and at the same time on the peri- phery of the egg a rounded projection is formed op- posite the locality at which the nucleus and nucleolar elements of the egg were situated. This projection, which is indifferently termed the 'polar glohulc or