THE MAMM^. 725 ■ ^>oo^oo-o vnginal wall inclusive, and is for the most part com- posed of the bladder. It is loose in its attachments; is drawn up during labor; is driven down in pro- lapsus uteri, and falls forward in the genu-pectoral position. The jjubic segment, as seen on a median antero-posterior (sagittal) section, is triangular in shape, and exiiibits a pubic, a vaginal, and a peritoneal aspect. The pubic aspect is nearly two inches and a half (six cm.) long, and is separated from tlie symphysis pubis by a pyramidal mass of fat. The vaginal aspect is three and a third inches (eight cm.) long, and is closely incor|)orated with the anterior vaginal wall. Tlic peritoneal aspect is of the same length as the pubic. The sacral segment extends from the posterior vaginal wall to the sacrum. It is somewhat quad- rangular, and is composed of musculo-tendinous tis- sue. The lower end of the structures entering into the anterior wall constitutes the so-called " perineal body." The sacral segment is firm in its attachments ; is drawn down in labor; always remains in position (posterior vaginal wall excepted) in prolapsus uteri, as well as in the genu-pectoral position. The superficies of the parts entering into the female perineum embrace, (1) the space between the tip of the coccyx and the anus; (2) the anus itself; (3) the space between the anus and the commissure; (-i) the vulva. In practice, however, it is customarj^ to re- strict the term perineum to the third of the above- named divisions. The female perineum (perineal body), (Fig. 192, Fig. 193), when thus restricted, is the superficies of the an- terior portion of the sacral segment of the pelvic floor. When seen as part of an antero-posterior (sagittal) section (Figs. 194 and 195), it is a broad musculo-ten- dinous surface, which forms a conspicuous feature in the dissection; it is covered with skin on its free and inferior aspect; but is continuous with the mucous surface of the vagina anteriorly, and the mucous sur- face of the rectum posteriorly. Its superior limit is not well deiined in the dead subject, but in the living can be said to correspond to the plane of the upper limit of the Internal Sphincter Ani muscle.^ According to Jas. St. Clair Gray,^ there is great diversity in the position, length, and relation of the perineum to the pubis and the coccyx. When the perineum is long and its anterior margin is near the pubis, it may be termed puhical; when shorter ' The above account is based for the most part upon the re- searches of D. B. Hart, The Structural Anatomy of tlie Female Pelvic Floor, Edinburgh, 1880.—See also Edinburgh Medical .Tourn. XX'. ; also, B. E. Holden, Am. .Journ. Obst., etc., xvii. 1884, 36.5. 2 Glas. Med. Journ., 1874, 182. and equidistant from the pubis and coccyx, it may be termed axial; and when nearer the coccyx, coc- cyjeal. In connection with this subject, it may be here appended that the orifice of the vagina is not con- stant in its position relatively to the pubis and coccyx, nor is the direction of its cavity invariable. The sa- crum is inconstant in form. It varies in the degree of curvature of its anterior surface, and when the curvature is slight the perineum has an axis which answers to the coccygeal; when moderate, the axis is central or axial; and when the curvature is exagge- rated, the axis is puhical. Thus differences in the position of the perineum correspond with degrees of curvature of the sacrum. THE MAMMAE. The Mamma? (mammary glands) (fig. 4, Plate CIX.) are the milk-producing organs. They are subcuta- neous bodies, situated one on each side of the front of the thorax, over the Pectoralis Major muscle. They are characteristic of the highest group of - the animal kingdom, the mammalia. The mamma3 are equally active in both sexes in utero; are equally inactive during infancy and ado- lescence; but differ remarkably during the years of fertility. The description, here adopted, relates, unless otherwise stated, to the glands in the child- bearing woman. The mamm;e are generally described with the organs of reproduction, in consequence of their devel- opment proceeding coincidently with these organs. In the female before puberty, and in the male through- out life, the mammte remain in a rudimentary condi- tion. Each mammary gland forms a hemispherical or sub-conical eminence—the breast—surmounted by the nipple, and diverges slightly from its fellow. It is somewhat flattened above, convex below, slopes gently toward the axilla, extends from the third to the seventh rib, and from the outer border of the sternum to the anterior border of the axilla. Tlie nip[ile is of a dee|) brown color in tlie brunette; tlie areola assumes a peculiar brownish hue in pregnancy. It lies as a rule opposite the fourth intercostal space. It is often over the fourth rib, less frequently on the fifth rib, and rarely upon the fifth intercostal space, and lies four and three-quarters of an inch (twelve cm.) from the median line of the sternum. According to Holden, a line