THE ALIMENTAKY 672 CANAL. > _ ooo|go<x= tine were found compressed at the operation. These coils were released, and the gall-bladder was secured to tlie parietes and opened, a proceeding which was followed bj the flow of a large quantity of bile. The patient, although an old man of seventj^ years, recovered.—When gall-stones escape through the integument, of which 70 cases are now recorded,' the opening, as one would expect, is opposite the fundus. ■—When the gall-bladder enlarges, it may be brought in contact with the suspensory ligament, as the latter structure passes from the anterior wall of the ab- domen to the liver. The peculiar origin of the sus- pensory ligament should not be forgotten. In some cases, a gall-stone escaping from the gall-bladder, which has previously secured adhesions to the ab- dominal wall, may not escape directly through the parietes, but be lodged in the suspensory ligament and be guided by it to the umbilicus. In extremely rare cases the gall-stone may descend between the muscles of the abdomen, or between them and the peritoneum to the pudenda. A calculus under these circumstances has been extracted from the submucous tissue immediately above the clitoris.^ Such eccentric dispositions are more apt to occur when the calculus has been brought down to the umbilicus, but cannot escape thence, and is led b}^ gravity to descend to the pubis in the wall of the abdomen, to the groin,^ or even to the iliac fossa or the buttock. D. Hayes Agnew has found the last a site for the deposition of gaU-stones. In this case, a female, fifty-eight years of age, had had an enormous cyst over the right buttock, measuring eighteen inches in either diameter. In removing the sac it was found that it led up to the crest of the ilium, and turned inward, following the curve of the iliac fossa. At the bottom of this pelvic prolongation of the sac, a nest of biliary calculi about the size of hickory-nuts was found. The previous medical history was sufficient in the judgment of Prof. Agnew to indicate that a dis- placed and enlarged liver had brought the gall bladder in contact with the iliac fascia, with a subsequent escape of the gall-stones between the fascia and the Iliacus Internus muscle—the cyst in the buttock be- ing an adventitious formation in connection therewith. —These special forms of the lesions created by gall- stones are almost peculiar to females. THE PANCREAS. The Pancreas (fig. 4, Plate CII.) is the largest race- mose gland in the body. It is an appendage to the ' Murchison, 1. c, 521. 2 Gaz. dea H6p., Oct. 8, 1846. Murcliisoii, 522. aliraentarj' canal at the duodenum, and lies within the right hypochondriac, the epigastric, and the left hypochondriac regions. Long and slender, with a doubling and thickening at one end, its general form has been compared to that of a hammer; the main portion, corresponding to the "handle" of such an in- strument, is called the "body;" the free portion, the "tail;" while the "hammer" proper is called the "head" of the organ. The head (duodenal portion, vertical portion) is nearly quadrilateral in form ; it lies within the me- dian or concave border of the duodenum, to which it FiR. 185. The (laodenum opened sbowing the valvul£e conoiveutes, and the opening of the common bile-duct. The duct of the pancreas is also represented in greater part of its course, a, duodenum, b, pancreas, c, common Itilo-duct. d, pan- creatic duct, e, opening of the common duct in the intestine. accurately conforms, and slightly overlaps the anterior and the posterior surfaces. The body isof a moreorless prismatic form, slightly twisted upon itself; the upper, thicker border is grooved for the splenic artery and vein. The tail is thin and tapering, and is directed toward the spleen. The body and the tail are con- tinuous, and in reality form the linrizonlal portion of the gland, while the head is quite distinct and forms the vertical portion. The position of the portal vein and the superior mesenteric artery and vein serves to limit these two portions. The pancreas measures six to eight inches in length, one-and-a-half inch in breadth, one half to one inch in thickness, and weighs from two and a half to four and a half ounces. Its texture is somewhat looser than that of the salivary glands, but is at times, parti- cularly in thin persons, of a peculiar density. Extending throughout its entire length, concealed within the substance of the gland, but lying nearer the lower border, is the excretory duct. The excretory duct (duct of Wirsung) usually joins the common bile-duct, and empties into the duodenum with the latter. The manner of termination of the