THE REGION OF THE KNEE. 745 ooO^OOz. the skin of the anterior surface.—-The skin of the lateral surface is often perforated bj fistulous tracts in necrosis of the shaft of the bone. The following points can be detected in the thigh : A band of fascia lata can be felt extending below the Tensor Vaginte Fernoris; this band is most pro- nounced in emaciated males, and forms near the trochanter, and near the knee-joint, a conspicuous line beneath the skin. The eminences of the Vasti muscles, the Eectus Fernoris, and (when the leg is flexed and adducted) the belly of the Sartorius mus- cle, on the front of the thigh; the adductor mass, especially the Adductor Longus, on the median sur- face; the tendon of the Biceps Femoris on the lateral border; and the tendons of the Semimembra- nosus and Semitendinosus on the median border of the posterior surface.—-A Avell-defined depression ordinarily exists on the upper aspect of the thigh between the Rectus Femoris and the Adductor mass. THE KNEE. Tlie region of the Knee is defined proximally by a line encircling the limb at the upper border of the cul-de-sac one-and-a-half inch or two fingers' breadth (rarely two inches) above the patella, and distally by a line encircling the limb immediately below the tubercle of the tibia. The region of the knee is smaller than that of the thigh or the leg, and exhibits but little disposition to the accumulation of fat. It is relatively larger in children than in adults, and in rachitic than in nor- mal subjects. The region of the knee is divided into two regions: the anterior, and the posterior. The Anterior Region is subpyramidal in form; the sides of the figure are composed of the lateral and median surfaces of the joint and their overlying structures, where the summit is represented by the patella. It receives more accessions from the fascia lata than does the posterior region. • The anterior surface (front of the knee). The pa- tella forms the most conspicuous feature of the anterior surface. This bone is freely movable from side to side in extension, but is fixed against the femur in flexion. The median border is better outlined than the lateral. The edges of the inter-condyloid notch can be deter- mined. Below the patella the position of the ligamen- tuin patellsB can be ascertained. A shallow depres- sion is seen on each side of the ligament in slender sub- jects, but, in the well-nourished, there is seen at this 95 point a convex surface due to the presence of a cjuantity of underlying fat. In chronic diseased conditions the serous exudation into the fat of this region causes the masses to become exceptionally prominent, and to constitute an important feature in the superficial appearance of the joint. Care should be taken not to confound the soft, yielding character of these swellings with abscess. The bursse, which may be determined by palpation, are two in number. The first and most important lies directly in front (covering the lower two-thirds) of the patella. When enlarged it constitutes "house-maid's" knee, and may be the size of an egg or small orange. It may suppurate and even lead to caries of the patella. The second bursa lies beneath the ligamentum patellae, as this structure is attached to the tibia. It is less fre- quently enlarged than is the prepatellar bursa. Hyrtl describes a bursa (pretibial bursa) lying in front of the tubercle of the tibia and of the ligamentum patellas. It is acquired, and thus differs from the two fore- CToinff. The extension of the synovial membrane, above the patella, determines a point at which the synovial chamber can be punctured. It is recommended to insert the instrument a little above and to the median side of the patella. The skin of the anterior region is thicker and rougher over the patella than at the sides of the joint, and in extension in many subjects is thrown into a number of minute transverse folds. The lateral surface (external surface, outer side of knee) is flat or slightly concave. Tlie external con- dyle of the femur, the tuberosity of the tibia, the in- terarticular depression between the femur and the tibia, and the edge of the interarticular disk can be dis- tinguished. A fold of fascia lata, which corresponds to the line of traction of the Tensor Vaginae Femoris, is pronounced in extension. The external lateral ligament can be distinguished. The median surface (internal surface, inner side of knee) presents more conspicuous bony prominences, but less pronounced fibrous structures, than does the external surface, but on the whole it is less sharply defined. Thus the general surface is convex from the projections of the internal condyle of the femur and the internal tuberosity of the tibia, while the interar- ticular depression is imperfectly defined, and the liga- ments and bands of fascia lata are absent. The Ad- ductor Magnus tubercule for the tendon of insertion of the muscle of the same name, can be felt a short dis- tance above the internal condyle, where it corresponds