THE GENITO-URIN AEY OEGANS. 722 o^O^Cxx tissue is continuous with tliat round tlie neck of tlie uterus, and thence can be traced down a short distance about the vaginal waU. In consequence of this arrangement the blad- der and rectum are less intimately associated with each other than with the lower part of the vagina. The anterior wall of the vagina is continuous below with that of the urethra, hence the name urethro-vayinal septura given to this region. This septum is thickest at its lowest part, where it meas- ures five-and-a-half lines. The posterior wall of the vagina enters for the most part into the recto-vaginal septum. As is the case with the ves'co-vaginal, the lower part of this septum is the thicker. The upper fifth of the poste- rior wall is in contact with the peritoneum at the bottom of Douglas's pouch. This is a most important relation, and should also be remembered in connection with the course of the ureters. The ureters lie about four lines from the vagina, and between it and the Levator Ani muscles, at the upper portion of the canal, to wh'ch they are joined by connective tissue. Communication of the ureter with the vagina is possi- ble, as shown by "W. A. Freund.^ Structure The vagina is composed of three coverings, tlie mucous membrane, muscular tissue, and dense connective tissue. These are not arranged in well-defined layers, but are placed in the order named from within outward. The mucous membrane is covered by a thick squamous epitlielium. The papilla; are large, but concealed by the epithelium. The glands of the vagina are indifferently de- veloped. A few sparse racemose glands are named by Luschka as occurring at the orifice and at the upper portion of the vagina. The remaining glands are of the closed variety, and are insignificant. Some writers describe mu- cous follicles in tlie vaginal vault. The muscular fibres of the vagina are of two kinds, longi- tudinal and circular. The latter are the more external. In- terspersed among the fibres is a quantity of connective tissue (rich in elastic fibres), which extends beyond the muscular fibres, and serves to sepai-ate the vagina from the bladder and rectum respectively. As already mentioned, tlie orifice of the vagina is sur- rounded by the Sphincter Vagina, a thin bundle of striped muscular tibres derived from the tegumental layer of the pierineum. Variations Tlie vagina may be absent, narrowed, or may exist as a cul-de-sac opening on the perineum in the normal manner. The hymen may be imperforate and of great thick- ness. A septum may extend either wholly or in part along the vagina, thus converting the single passage into two. The hymen may be present in both passages. Very infrequently 1 Klin. Beitriige zur Gynakologie, Heft i. 1862, 59. two uteri may be found in conjunction with the vaginse, but commonly the septum ends at a point below the os. The vagina, together with the bladder, may form a uro-genital sinus, into which the rectum opens, and thus form a chamber which, in the new-born subject, will be found filled with meconium. Atresia of the rectum, the vagina, and the bladder may coexist with Sympodius iq.v.). Remarks.—In women who have borne children the vagina is bag-like, and wider than in the virgin. The contracted orifice maintains a condition favorable to the retention of clots in uterine hemorrhage, as well as of menstrual fluid. The vagina is susceptible of inversion from the dragging downward of a displaced uterus, and of dis- tension from the descent of the foetus in child-birth. Its walls may be involved in penetrating wounds of the vulva and the perineum. Such wounds, if ex- tensive, may perforate both walls and involve the bladder or the rectum, and possibly the peritoneum (see Fig. 194). In the genu-pectoral position, the vagina becomes distended with air, and the examination of its walls is greatly facilitated. The posterior wall of the vagina is tense in partu- rition, when it may be ruptured by injudicious pres- sure from instruments. Instances have been recorded of extensive lesion of the vagina under the conditions named with protrusion of loojos of the sigmoid flexure. For cliitical purposes the vagina may be divided by three planes which intersect the passage at right angles to the longitudinal axis: (1) The parts on and just above the level of the hymen include that portion of the vagina which answers to the urethra as it lies helow the symphysis pubis. The clinical relations of this portion are with the vestibule and the so-called true perineum. (2) The parts answer- ing to the portion of the urethra lying behind the symphysis pubis. Here the clinical relations are with the urethra in front and the rectum behind. (3) The parts answering to the vaginal vault; these relate to the peritoneum both front and back in contracted states of the bladder and the rectum, and with the bladder-wall chiefly in front in distended states of the bladder. It is in this section that peritoneal involve- ment from vaginal lesion can occur, and that the ovary can be excised. THE VULVA. The Vulva (fig. 3, Plate CIX.; figs. 19i, 195) in- cludes the external organs of generation.