NERVOUS SYSTEM. 759 THE REGION OF THE CENTRAL ' Ziemsseii's HaiidbuL;h, Hautkranklieiten, 470. 3 Elements of Embryology, Part I. 50. —=oo^cxx= brvos were entirely dependent upon the yolk-sac for nourishment, they would be unlikely to present the ventral surface away from the underlying vitellus. All errors of a gross character doubtless are an- nounced at an early period in the history of the embryo, and the features attending the primal cleav- age into the epiblast and hypoblast are probably modified at this time if defects of the central nervous system or of the genito-urinary apparatus are pro- foundly impressed. The errors of mesoblastic origin may prove to be of later origin ; and owing to the more plastic character of this layer as compared to the more fixed character of the remaining layers of the blasto- derm it is probable that even some acquired defects may be mesoblastic in nature. It would be a useful tentative position for the pathologist to accustom himself to view many forms of morbid growth, particularly the myxomata and sarcomata, as expres- sion of mesoblastic development, occurring out of place and order. The influence exerted in the formation of all struc- tures from a well-defined layer of the blastodermic membrane probably persists throughout life, and it is a valuable hypothesis to assume that all such struc- tures are apt to be associated in constitutional phases of diseased action. The subjoined illustra- tions are presented of this subject, which promise to be of interest in clinical and pathological studies. In congenital syphilis the following localities are often the seat of diseased action: The oral angle, the enamel caps, the nail-bed and nail, the retina, and the cornea. All of these structures are entirely of epi- blastic origin excepting the cornea, which receives some mesoblastic elements in addition. Tumors which exhibit metastatic tendencies, that is, those which involve structures, secondarily by transfer of cells and tissue, fragments by the bloodvessels, are of hypoblastic origin. Among skin diseases, ichthj^osis and psoriasis are included by E. Lesser^ among the anomalies of the cuticle, and are of epiblastic origin. The anus is lined with an involuted portion of epiblast from the perineum, while the rectum, except- ing the portion near the anus, and the remaining por- tion of the alimentary canal, are of hypoblastic origin. It is interesting to note that the affections of the anus and rectum for an inch or so above the anus are in the main distinct from those of the remaining portions of the rectum and the alimentary canal. Metastatic conditions are unknown at the anus and the lower sixth of the rectum.—The mouth is lined with an in- volution of epiblast, from a diverticulum of which the anterior lobe of the pituitary body is formed, while the pharynx, as stated by Balfour, is lined by a membrane of hypoblastic origin. It is observable that the separa- tion of the two is sharply outlined at the oro-pharyn- geal aperture. The oral region and the pharynx are thus erabryologically distinct. The structural diseases of the mouth correlate with the cuticle, as, for example, the presence of hypertrophy of the gum with hirsute growths of skin; and some of the pharyngeal diseases, at least, with the deep-seated visceral chambers.—In connection with this phase of the subject may be men- tioned the communication of the lymph-tracts of the roof of the pharynx with the lymph-spaces of the base of the brain. Diseases of the roof of the pharynx (conceding the foregoing premises to be well based) should be grou})ed in common with those of the pituitary body and of the base of the skull. The retention of osseous canals which extend from the pituitary fossa to the under surface of the basilar process may thus be made capable of a practical ap- plication ;^ and the presence of hairy growths from the sides of the pharynx, as described by P. S. Abraham,^ by reason of their affinity with dermoid growths of the pituitary body, becomes of more than exceptional morphological interest. (2) THK REGION OF THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM AND THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. On the first day in the development of the cheek the epiblast sends up two ridges or folds upon the upper aspect, and in this way causes the outer sur- face of the egg to depart from the form of the sphere. These ridges are named the raedullary folds, and the space between them medullary groove. The folds at one end unite to form the head fold, the pos- terior end of the groove remaining open. Behind the medullary groove, but not continuous with it, is a delicate linear depression, which is the so-called p7'imitive groove or primitive trace (Fig. 228). It dis- appears in a little while without furnishing any clue to its significance. Foster and Balfour^ incline to the opinion that it is a rudiment of an early structure of some unknown ancestral form of life. About the head fold and the medullar}' folds are developed the proto-vertebra; (under which name are 1 See Axel Key and Retzius (Studieu in der Anat. des Nerven- systems und des Bindegewebes, Stockholm, 1875, 217-220, Taf. xxxvii.-xxxix.) ; also Waldeyer (Archiv f. microscop. Anat., xvii. 1880, 36G). 2 .loni-n. of Anat. and Phys., xv. 18S1, 244.