664 THE ALIMENTAEY CANAL. 000^00<=^ — a spiral. According to Cruveilhier, they are irregu- lar, alternate, and oblique. The flow of bile from tiie gall-bladder outward is retarded in two ways: 1st. By the flexure at the apex which is due to fixation by the peritoneum, and which is readily effaced. 2d. By the valves within the duct, which are permanent. Tlie capillaries occupy the lobules, from the centres of which the venous blood escapes. The bile-ducts originate from above the hepatic cells, among the capillaries, and pass to the periphery. The manner of the elimination of the bile has been variously de- scribed. According to Leidy, whose researches were the first undertaken to prove the unity of construc- tion of all gland tissue, the liver is a congeries of fol- licular glands which freely anastomose at their lower closed extremities, securing a reticular arrangement of tubes of basement membrane lined with hepatic cells. Beale has successfully demonstrated in the pig the existence of a system of interlobular tubes inclosing the hepatic cells. Chrzonszczewsky also has proved that there are canals among the hepatic cells. The hepatic artery, in addition to supplying the lobules, yields branches to the portal canals or tracts, to the walls of the biliaiy ducts, and to the capsule of Glisson. Fis. ISO. A a antero-posterior (sagittal) section o f tlie trunk in the mammary linp. 1, liver ; 2, right kidney ; 3, the surface of the liver in contact with the Dia- phragm ; 4, the lower lobe of right lung ; 5, ascending colon. The Common Biliary Duct (ductus communis chole- dochus) is about three inches in length. It joins the duodenum at the middle of the vertical portion, about four inches from the stomach, penetrates the Fig. 181. An antero-posterior (sagittal) section of the trunk in the median line. 1, tlie liver; 2, the stomach ; 3, the heart; 4, one of the crura of the Diaphragm. A transverse (frontal) section of tlie trunk. 1, the liver; 2, the stomach ; 3, the lower lobe of left lung ; 4, the heart; .'i, the lower lobe of right lung ; 6, the gall bladder ; 7, the small intestine. The section of the largest tube to the left is the colon distended with flatus. Horizontal section of the trunk at the level of the space between the ninth and tenth rib. 1, tlio liver ; 2, the left kidney ; 3, the stomach ; 4, the spleen ; 5, the (jcsophagus.