THE NAILS. c>oc>^o<x- 729 benc.ith the skin in liesilth, is closely incorporated with the skin in the buttock, the palms, the soles, the lobes of the ear, and to the skin of the face, where it forms cushion-like masses to aid for the most part in the protection of the deeper parts against external pressure. The skin can be raised in folds from the subdermal structures in the neck, and in the greater part of the limb.s, especially at the lines of flexion of the joints.' The presence of fat, when it is moderately firm, causes the skin to form transverse folds in some por- tions of the body, especially in well nourished in- fants and obese persons. The most prominent of these folds are seen in the neck, along the limbs; one lies across the abdomen on a line joining the anterior superior spinous processes of the innominate bones. The presence of fat in the adult, taken together with the absence or presence of hirsute growth, is a valuable subordinate sexual character, and may be employed in the determination of the question of sex in the living subject. Variations—The skin is singularly inapt to be tlie seat of congenital defect, and vvitli the exception of the absence of the skin over tiie abdomen in whole or in part, the absence over the region of the heart,,and the absence over the region of the vertex, occiput, or region of tiie dorsal spine it may be said never to sutfer from congenital deformities.—When the skin about the umbilicus is defective it causes the formation of umbilical hernia. Dermatologists include among anomalies of tlie skin a num- berofaffections of the e[)idermic portion. Congenital ichtiiyo- sis may be accepted as a type of such a condition, and in tiie judgment of E. Lesser^ is a defect not only in the epidermic division, but of the skin of the body as a whole. The skin would appear to be arrested in growth, and the distending forces of development rupture it, thus forming large trans- verse fissures upon the trunk, longitudinal fissures on the limbs, and failures of development of the parts dependent upon a normal union of mucous and tegumental structures, as at the palpebral fissures, the mouth, and the anus. Such subjects jierisii within nine days after birth. TIIE NAILS. The Nails are flexible, translucent, horny struc- tures which arise from the epidermic layer of the skin 1 The lines of flexion of the joints, the median aspect of the limb, and the inferior aspect of the trunk are the parts most protected in the enihryo. They are also the parts that answer to the most pro- tected surfaces in quadrupeds. It is interesting to note the indis- position of ichthyosis to involve these regions, and the activity of gland secretion within them. * Ziemssen's Ilaudb. d. special. Patlu u. Tlierap., xiv. i. 1883 479 93 upon the dorsal aspects of the terminal phalanges. Each nail is gently convex from side to side, and is thicker in the middle than at the edges. The nail pre- sents a distal, free border, and fixed lateral and prox- imal borders. The border last named is called the root; the exposed portion, the body; the oval white space in advance of the root, the lunula; and the superficial structures, which aid in imbedding the nail, the nail-folds.—The surface upon which the nail lies and to which it adheres is called the bed of the nail (matrix). It is composed of a thin layer of spi- nous cells resting upon the true skin layer which is at this place rich in ridges bearing papillaa. The nail is marked along its exposed portions by a number of faint, longitudinally disposed lines. Wljcn the nail is torn from its bed or allowed to fall away by maceration, the under surface is seen to be marked by numbers of more conspicuous lines. These con- sist of minute parallel striaj which are ranged in a single series over the entire surface, and which corre- spond in position to the ridges of papillfB of the nail- bed. The nail-folds (perionyx, eponychium) are best seen in section. When section of the digit is made from above downward, the root of the nail is seen to lie between the bed and a triangular portion of epiderm, which is composed, first, of a thin layer of cuticle lying against the nail; second, a layer ol' granular cells, and third, a layer of spinous cells. The nail-folds have been named the ej^onycliium by P. Unna,' who, under this name, describes a layer of epiderm belonging to the true skin and which envel- ops the nails in foetal life. It is homologous with the " epitrichium" of the sloth-type of mammal. The eponychium is represented in the life-history of the phalanx by the thin translucent fold of epi- derm, which exhibits a disposition to leave the derm, and, adhering closely to the nail, to advance along it from the root upon the dorsal surface. The epo- nychium is frequently lacerated, and when drawn forcibly backward irritates the skin and exposes the subepithelial structures. Such tags of tissue are popularly known as " hang-nails," and are the locali- ties at which syphilitic virus and other forms of ani- mal poisons frequently have entered the system. Eemarks.—The nails are delicate clinical tests of nutritive changes. Dr. S. Weir Mitchell has ascertained that they cease to grow in paralysis. In relapses of typhoid fever the nails also cease to ' Ziemssen's Handbuch d. special. Path. u. Tlierap., xiv., i., 39.