669 THE LIVER. * Lancet, ii., 1868. ' Lnc. cit., 64. ' Tr. Path. Soc. Loud., ii. 70. {!>) The 2)erito?ieurn is frequently involved in hepa- tic disease. Hydatid tumors often terminate fatally by rupture into the abdominal cavity. It is estima- ted by Waring that out of every three hundred cases of hepatic abscess fifteen will involve the peritoneum. R. S. Orr/ in a case of hepatic abscess, found the ])us in the gastro-hepatic omentum and about the du(xlcnum and the pancreas. (c) The stomach, the colo7i, and the duodenum are, from their extensive contact with the under surface of the liver, presumably liable to inflammatory in- volvement and aftbrd probable points of outlet of fluid. Davaine has collected eleven cases, of which six were fatal, where hydatid tumor of the liver ap- peared to open into the stomach; and fifteen, of which only one was fatal, where there was reason to believe that it had opened into the intestine.^ The small intestine rarely enters into relationship with the liver. Bright^ found not only the colon and omentum but the small intestine lying in front of the liver, at the same time being pressed against it so as to make deep impressions upon its anterior surface. In such a case it can be seen how pus might readily pass from the liver into the small intestine and colon, or how readily the contiguous structures could be wounded by a single missile. W. Warren* records a case of a needle-perforation of the walls of the stomach involving the liver in a child of eleven years. Intestinal hemorrhage and peritoneal adhesions between the organs ensued. ((/) Tlie left lobe of the liver is less liable to interfer- ence than the other portions of the organ—a circum- stance due to the diminished mobility of this lobe, and to the fact that it is in great measure removed from the causes of abscess and hydatid tumor. The most important clinical relation of the left lobe is with the pericardium. 77/e relatums of the left lobe.—The left lobe of the liver enters into relations which in a clinical sense can be considered separately from those of the other lobes. The two divisions of the liver are drained by distinct sets of lymphatics. Malignant tumors may be confined to the left lobe, which, under these cir- cumstances, may be confounded with enlarged con- ditions of the spleen. Murchison' refers to three cases only in which the ])ericardium was penetrated by an hepatic hydatid. All proved fatal either instantaneously by embarrass- ' Glas. Med. Jouiu., 1S62, x. 284. 2 See Murcliison, Diseases of the Liver, 66. 3 (Ally's Hosp. Rep., 1840, 37. ment of the heart's action, or within a few hours by acute pericarditis. Mr. Bentley' narrates a case of he- patic abscess opening into the pericardium. A male, 29 years of age, was seized suddenly with pain to the right of the xiphoid cartilage, accompanied with dyspnosa and followed by cough and expectoration. Eight months afterward the patient was attacked with nausea, and pain in the prEecordium. Deatli took place a few hours thereafter. At the autopsy it was found that the left lobe of the liver was occupied almost entirely by an abscess. Tlie liver was greatlj' enlarged and adherent to the Diaphragm. The abscess com- municated with the pericardium by a nipple-shaped opening. llie relations of the liver with the foramen of Wins- loiv.—In examination of the abdomen after death in obscure morbid conditions, it is well to observe the appearance of the foramen of Winslow. Serving as it does to connect the greater with the lesser perito- neal chamber, this opening has been known to be a thoroughfare for fluids and growths of dift'erent kinds, by which they can pass from one peritoneal sub- chamber to the other. Thus, an hydatid cyst which originates in the liver has been detected projecting through the enlaroed foramen. The parietal relations of the liver.—The parietal relations of the liver are not important from an anatomical point of view, since any protrusion from the liver in this direction is at once recogn^zable by palpation. It is, all things considered, a rare circum- stance for collections of fluid or tumors to project toward the periphery, because of the firm resistance interposed by the Diaphragm, the ribs, and the Inter- costal mu.scles. (e) Instances of hepatic abscess opening into the inferior vena cava, of involvement of the portal vein (Hyrtl) and of the hepatic vein from similar causes (Davaine), have been recorded.—The remains of the umbilical vein, passing from the liver to the umbilicus, have served to guide the flow of pus from an hepatic abscess to the umbilicus. If, therefore, pus be in- duced by pressure to flow from a patulous umbilicus, and a probe be introduced into a sinus which extends upward toward the liver, it is probable that there is a collection of pus in or about that organ. In examination of the liver of emaciated subjects, the viscus is sometimes found lying against the in- ferior vena cava and retarding, if not preventing, the ascent of injecting fluid along this vessel. It is not known that any similar causes operate in exciting