THE REGION OF THE AVEIST. 741 =00^00.0 According to Hyrtl,' a, bursa may be felt on this surface between the tendon of the Biceps muscle and the tuberosity of the radius which may attain the size of a walnut and be sufficiently dense to be taken by the observer for an exostosis. In favorably selected sub- jects the coronoid process may be felt in front of the joint when extended. The joint is not, strictly speak- ing, parallel to the axis of either the arm or the forearm, but exhibits an angle at the inner aspect of the joint by the intersection of these two lines. Seen from behind, the olecranon and the position of the superficial bursa? are indicated. Both the superficial and the deep bursa may become sufficiently enlarged to form a conspicuous swelling in the living subject. The shhi of the elbow is thin and delicate ante- riorly but thick posteriorly, and is everywhere free from hair except along the posterior surface. The anterior surface except in very fat persons is marked by superficial veins, especially when the arm hangs at the side. The skin possesses considerable repara- tive power, as is seen in the recovery from wounds and incisions. On the outer side of the olecranon is a dimple-like depression which is most conspicuous when the elbow is extended, and which corresponds in position to the head of the radius. The depression is bounded laterally by the Anconeus, and medianly by the Supinator Longus and the Extensor Carpi Radii muscles. THE FOREARM. The Forearm presents the figure of a club, whose base is proximal and rounded, and whose short handle is distal and compressed from side to side. The forearm lies between the lower limit of the region of the elbow (two fingers' breadths below the anterior elbow-fold), and the first of the transverse lines which form the proximal limit of the wrist on the anterior surface of the limb. The forearm exhibits a few eminences which answer to separate muscles even when they are at rest. On the anterior sur- face above the wrist are seen the tendons of the Palmaris Longus and Flexor Carpi Radialis. On the same surface when the wrist is slightly flexed, tlie tendons of the Flexor Sublimis Dioitorum and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris can be identified. When the thumb is held up and the ulnar border of the hand is depressed, the tendons of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris can be ' Topog. Anat., ii. 289. felt distinctly above the wrist-joint. In forced ex- tension of the thumb a slight fulness can be detected on the lateral surface of the forearm over the position of the origin of the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Polli- cis muscle. The remaining muscles of the forearm give bulk to the forearm and more especially form the rounded, firm, cushion-like masses, which embrace the bones at the proximal two-thirds. The chief muscular mass is placed in front rather than back of the radius and ulna. The head of the ulna and the median margin of the shaft can be felt as well as the lower two-thirds of the shaft of the radius including the styloid process. The skin is delicate and smooth in front, but thick behind. It is much less mobile than in the arm. The posterior surface is, in the male, covered with hair. THE WRIST. The region of the Wrist is defined by a space two fingers in breadth, above and below the line of the wrist-joint. It is in a general way limited by the linear depressions which answer to skin-folds on the anterior surface of the wrist. The anterior or flexor surface is subdivided into two subregions, the radial and the ulnar. The radial suhregion^ the smaller of the two, lies between the tendon of the Extensor Ossi Metacarpi Pollicis and the Flexor Carpi Radialis. The pulsations of the radial artery can be felt in this region. The ulnar suhreyion, owing to the smaller bony surface under- lying it, as compared to the radial, is cushion-like. It lies between the Flexor Carpi Radialis and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Conspicuous in this region is the tendon of the Palmaris Longus. The extensor or dorsal surface extends from the Ex- tensor Ossi Metacarpi Pollicis to the tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. It thus embraces both the radial and the ulnar borders of the region. The space between the Extensor Ossi Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis (radial fossa, tahatih'e anatomique) is best seen when the mus- cles are contracted, and answers to the position of the scaphoid bone and the trapezium.—The ulnar border is most pronounced in supination.—When the wrist- joint is semiflexed the cuneiform bone can be felt lying to the lateral aspect of the movable pisiform bone. Between the ulnar and radial borders, when the fingers are extended, the tendons of the Extensor Communis Digitorum can be felt; the Extensor Minimi Digiti can be detected when the little fino-er is extended: