776 ON MAKING POST-MOETEM EXAMINATIONS. This procedure preserves the lesser curvature of the stomach and the exact position of tlie pyloris. The duodenum and pancreas can be examined together. The first-named may be opened in con- tinuity with the stomacli by an extension of the same incision. Should it be deemed advisable to remove the organ, such removal is to be reserved until after the examination of the spleen is finished. The pan- creas and the duodenum are in part retro-peritoneal, and their relations with the kidneys, thoracic duct, sympathetic ganglia, and bloodvessels should be sought for. The spleen is best removed by seizing it with the hand, and drawing the vascular pedicle (holding it to the cardiac end of the stomach) until such structure becomes tense, when it should be divided by the knife or scissors. The pancreas and duodenum still being in position, and the liver held to its physiological relations by the lesser omentum, and its contents remaining intact, the condition of the biliary and the pancreatic ducts should be observed, as well as that of the portal vein. Lesions of the hepatic or other branches of the coeliac axis of vessels are so rare that the observer may be excused examining this condition in other than in ob- scure disease, referable to its branches. The Biliary Ducts. The examination of these is of great importance. In the language of Virchow,' " the papilla of the ducts of the liver and pancreas should be examined and its contents gently pressed out; then by pressing on the gall-bladder, we should determine the presence or absence of obstacles to the flow of bile ; and, lastly, the ductus communis choledochus should be slit up." " It is quite useless to pass a probe along the gall-duct, for our being able to introduce a probe into the orifice is no evidence whatever that the intestinal (mural) portion was pervious during life." A final word of warning must be given before the abdomen is left. If the centre of attraction is the autopsy centre about the heart, or of a condition of which the heart and liver are or have been important agents, the above account of the examination should be so far modified as to enable the operator to retain the liver in position until the thorax has been opened and the heart examined. It is very evident that the removal of the liver will, by severing the hepatic vein, cause the inferior cava and possibly the right side of the heart and superior cava to empty a portion of their contents into the abdominal cavity, and the ' R. Virchow, Method of Performing Post-mortem Examinations. Trans, by T. P. Smith. exactness of a subsequent observation on these parts thus be lost. It is true this misadventure can be prevented by ligation of the hepatic veins before the ablation of the organ. But such an operation is tedious. Tlie order of examination of the abdomen, as re- commended by Virchow,' is as follows:— (1) The omentum. (2) The spleen. (3j The left kidney, supra-renal capsule, and ureter. (4) The right kidney, supra-renal capsule, and ureter. (5) The bladder, prostate gland, vesiculae: seminales, and urethra. (6) (a) The testicles, spermatic cord, and penis. {h) Vagina, uterus. Fallopian tubes, and ova- ries, etc. (7) The rectum. (8) The duodenum and intestinal portion of the ductus communis choledochus. (9) Tlie stomach. (10) The hepato duodenal ligament, gall-ducts, vena portse, gall-bladder, and liver. (11) The pancreas and semilunar ganglia. (12) The mesentery, with its glands, vessels, etc. (13) The small and large intestines. (14) The retro-peritoneal lymphatic glands, recep- taculum chyli, aorta, and vena cava inferior. In the event of an abdominal incision being imprac- ticable, it is well to know that not only the pelvic organs, but all the abdominal organs, can be removed per vayinam. The liver alone would have to be di- vided with scissors before removal. Thorax. Virchow' has giv-en the general direction that, after the abdomen is opened and the general relations of the organs made out, the thoracic organs should be next studied in situ. In a word, all the rela- tions of the organs in both great visceral chambers should be ascertained before proceeding to the dissec- tion of either. If ordinary care be taken concerning the wounding of the Diaphragm, or the escaping of blood from the larger veins, the thoracic relations need not be of necessity disturbed. The preservation of the arch of the Diaphragm—its height—its relations to the liver and the chest-wall, however, must be made out before the thorax is opened. No case of hepatic abscess, peri-hepatitis, diaphragmitis, pleurisy, pericar- ditis, ascites, peritonitis, not to mention wounds and fractures of the ribs, can be satisfactorily studied un- I L. c, p. 22.