674 THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. tumoi' directly above the stomach at the epigastrium may be a cancer of tlie pancreas, which has forced the stomach downward. The stomach may be adhe- rent to the pancreas, or the latter may even fill up an opening in its walls. The head of the pancreas in diseased conditions may so compress the common bile- duct as to induce icterus, and, by obstruction of the pancreatic duct, cause derangement of the proper pan- creatic secretion. When a morbid growth involves the common duct of the pancreas, the tributaries of the duct behind the point of obstruction rarely become sufficiently dilated to attract attention. In a case narrated by J. S. Bristowe, it was found that obstruction of the common bile-duct, which was distended to the size of the duodenum, was associated with enlargement of the pancreas. The pancreatic duct was dilated to a re- markable degree. The main portion pursued a tor- tuous course the entire length of the gland, and exhi- bited a diameter large enough to admit the tip of the little finger. The lower ends of the hepatic and pancreatic ducts were involved in a mass which was probably inflammatory.—In another instance recorded by the same writer, a cyst holding from two to three ounces of a colorless transparent fluid was found lodged in the small omentum, and was regarded as a result of pancreatic obstruction.' The head of the pancreas may by enlargement compress the duodenum,^ and the aorta. Enlarged conditions of the pancreas may compress the lacteals, or may in turn be displaced forward by the disten- sion of the thoracic duct supra or by the enlarged retro-peritoneal lymphatic glands.^ Cancerous growths, by increasing the size of the pancreatic mass, may cause it to assume relations not entertained in a normal condition. Among the parts so related may be mentioned the colon at the hepatic flexure, the liver, and the structures at its transverse fissure. The diseased mass may embrace the duodenum, press on the pylorus, or rarely surround the lesser curvature of the stomach. The exemption of the spleen, supra-renal capsules, and the kidneys from these encroachments is very striking.—The pan- creas putrefies readily. THE PERITONEUM. The Peritoneum (fig. 1, Plate C.) is the serous membrane which lines the abdominal cavity. It aids ' St. Thorn. Hosp. Rep., 1873, ]41. 2 Fletcher, Birmingham Path. Soc. ; Prov. Med. .Jourii., 1844. » Bright, Med.-Chir. Trans., 1833, xviii. in supporting the abdominal viscera, defines the pel- vic contents superiorly by the secretion of serum, facilitates the motions of the- organs among them- selves, and aids in maintaining the patulency of the alimentary canal and various gland-ducts. The most extensive of serous surfaces, it differs from others of its class in possessing in the female two openings of communication with mucous mem- brane, viz., those of the Fallopian tubes, through their free extremities. The inner surface of the peritoneum is smooth and covered with flattened, tessellated epithelium ; the outer is rough and is in relation with connective tissue. The cavity defined by the peritoneum is called the peritoneal cavity^ and is divided into the greater and lesser cavities, as will be described further on. The peritoneum as it lines the walls of the abdomen is called the parietal portion, and where it is in contact with the abdominal contents it is called the visceral portion. A viscus (as, for instance, the pancreas) lying close to the posterior wall of the abdomen may receive but a small surface of contact, when it is said to be imperfectly invested by peritoneum ; but when the organ lies further forward, the surrounding perito- neum is said to invest it completely. In an exact sense the peritoneum, however, in no case completely embraces any organ, an appreciable interval existing between the sides of the loop permitting arteries to enter, and veins and lymphatics to escape. Fat is very liable to accumulate in such localities. When this becomes abundant and the colon is contracted, the operation of colotomy becomes very difficult to perform.' The stcb-peritoneal connective tissue in the posterior and lower portion of the abdomen is exceedingly loose and abundant; but is compact in the anterior and dia- phragmatic walls, and as a rule is sparse and firmly united to the intestine. It is continuous above with the subpleural connective tissue, through the oesophageal and aortic openings in the Diaphragm, and below with the pelvic connective tissue and fascite. It also escapes from the crural canal and joins the connec- tive tissue of the thigh. Beginning the description at the umbilicus, it is found that the peritoneum passes from that point to the Diaphragm, from which it is reflected to the upper surface of the liver, where it assists in forming the lateral ligaments. The remains of the umbilical vein are in this region held within a fold of peritoneum, ' Curling, Diseases of the Rectum, 4th ed., 180.