' Arehiv f. Ohrenheilk., xv. 1879, 96. 1 Bryant, Treatise on Sui-gery, 198. THE PHARYNX. — <xx>^o-o-» 635 substance is thrown out and excites the intercellular matrix to appropriate lime-salts from the blood. The cells themselves form the elongated and branched tubules. The cementum differs from the enamel and dentine in deriving the material for hardening directly from periosteal vessels. According to LeGros and Magitot, the external portion is thin, rather dense and opaque, and retains a fibrous, laminar, feltdike arrangement of its fibres. The internal portion is thick, soft, and transparent, and is made up of nascent connective tissue. Over the surface of the enamel-organ the wall is vascular, and forms a number of villoid pro- cesses which project into the external epithelium. (Waldeyer.) The following table has been drawn up from the data furnished by LeGros and Magitot: At the seventh week of development are formed the begin- nings of the enamel-organs. At the ninth week traces of the dentine-organ. At the fifteenth week the epithelial bud begins to be transformed into the enamel-organ. At the sixteenth week the follicle is chased, and the mucous membrane is independent of it. Remarks.—The teeth may be changed in position by steady pressure. Tumors will thus displace teeth. Enlarged states of the tongue will turn the crowns of the teeth in the direction of the lines of pressure. A similar malposition results from a premature union of the two halves of the lower jaw, the tongue being of normal size. The teeth may be distorted by pres- sure of a nsevus or other tumor.' Lack of proper development of the superior maxillte contracts the dental arch, and the teeth assume irregular positions. The act of thumb-sucking in a child will spread the superior dental arch and distort the roof of the mouth. Teeth are often the seat of hyperostosis of the roots. In the lower jaw suppuration about the roots of a tooth may involve the connective tissue of the supra- hyoid space. As the result of acute periodontitis and subsequent inflammation of the cancellous structure of the inferior maxilla, suppurative cellulitis of the structure of the floor of the mouth and of the tongue may ensue and has infrequently proved fatal. THE PHARYNX. The Pharynx (fig. 7, Plate XCIX.) is that muscu- lar pouch which is controlled by the Constrictor mus- cles. It extends from the base of the skull to the cricoid cartilage, and serves to unite the mouth and nasal cavities with the oesophagus and the larynx. As observed in the dissected subject, the pharynx is defined posteriorly and laterally by the Constrictor muscles (figs. 1, 2, Plate XLV., p. 260), superiorly by the fil^rous tissue at the base of the skull. In- feriorly the pharynx is narrowed, and, as already mentioned, is continuous with the oesophagus and the larynx. The anterior border of the pharynx cor- responds to an imaginary plane which unites the two pterygo-maxillury ligaments, e., at the anterior limits of the Superior Constrictor muscle. The pharynx is five and a half inches long, two inches Avide at its widest part, and about an inch wide at its narrowest part. The mucous membrane is in health soft, smooth, flexible, and of a darkish red color. The pharyngeal fascia.—The pharyngeal fascia (pharyngeal aponeurosis) is a fibrous membrane which extends downward from the base of the skull in the substance of the posterior wall of the pharynx. It is at first thick, but soon becomes thin, and is finally lost at about the line of the junction of the middle with the upper third of the pharynx. ■ A second fas- cial extension, which serves to strengthen the lower portion of the pharynx, extends from the hj'oid bone toward the tongue. ZaufaP describes a division of this fascia (plica sal- pingo pharyngea) which extends from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube to the fascia in the posterior wall of the ])harynx. It is held by S. Moos to be a result of diseased action. The region between the pharynx and the vertebral column is occupied with a quantity of loose, glairy connective tissue which enables the movements of the pharynx to take place (notably the constriction of its muscles) without friction. The pharynx is divided into three portions— The Naso-pharynx, The Oro-pharynx, The Laryngo-pharynx. The Naso-pharynx (retro-nasal portion of the pha- rynx) is a space which answers to the posterior pro- longation of the nasal chamber. That is to say, the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx is about in the plane of the corresponding wall of the nasal chamber; so that the plane of the upper surface of the soft palate answers pretty nearly to that of the floor of the nose. It extends from the basilar process of the occipital bone to the soft palate and to an imaginary line drawn thence backward to the vertebral column.