THE E EG ION OF 743 THE HIP. — —XX>^Oo-o— sects the transverse lines, and with them forms a fancied resemblance to the letter M. A second group lies in clusters upon the transverse pad, in the axial line of the metacarpal bones. The Fingers. Each finger presents an anterior (palmar) surface, a posterior (dorsal) surface, and two lateral surfaces. The spaces between the fingers have received the name of the interdigital spaces. The space between the thumb and the index finger is spoken of as the "crotch of the thumb." The fingers present a compact integument over the anterior, and a thin integument over the posterior surface. Transverse skin-folds mark the lines of flex'on of the second and the third row of interpha- langeal articulations, and, on the palm, between the proximal third of the first row of phalanges and the transverse pad of the palm. These folds lie on a line unitino- the " web of the fing;ers." THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. Unlike the shoulder, the hip embraces all the struc- tures that are intermediate between the exsert and trunkal portion of the limb; it is again unlike, in being rigidly fixed to the framework of tlie trunk. An account of the superficial anatomy of the lower extremity will be described under the following titles:'— The Hip. The Leg. The Groin. The Ankle. The Thigh. The Foot. The Knee. THE HIP. The Hip2-(gluteal region, region of the buttock), is semicircular in form, and is defined above by the 1 It is more difficult to arrange the surface of the lower extrem- ity into natural regions than it is in tlie case of the superior ex- tremity, for the reason that the entire limb is to a greater extent a natural region. Tlie Gluteus Maximus and Tensor Vagina; Fem- oris muscles, since they make tense the fascise of the thigh, and since the integument over them is supplied by the: terminal branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves, may con- stitutea natural region (the posterior region of the hip of the text); the posterior surface of the thigh, wliieh coriesponds to the distribution of the branches of the small sciatic nerve, a second ; the anterior surface of the thigh, which corresponds to the distri- bution of the teriuinal branches of the anterior division of the lumbar nerves (excepting the long saphenous nerve), a third ; the posterior surface of the leg, and the lateral margin of the foot, a fourth ; the median aspect of the leg, a fifth ; the lateral aspect of tlie same, a sixth ; and the dorsum of the foot, the region of the musculo-cutaneous nerves, a seventh ; and the sole, an eighth. 2 The region of the hip is restricted by Tillaux to the region about the liip-joiut. crest of the ilium; below by a horizontal line, which corresponds to the lower border of the tuberosity of the ischium; medianly (v,'. e., toward the vertebral column) by the depression over the sacrum (sacral groove); and laterally, by an imaginary line, extend- ing from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, to the great trochanter. This region is flat in the infant and in weak adults. It is convex in well- nourished subjects, and is especially full and rounded in fema,les. The upper third of the region is flatter, where it corresponds to the Gluteus Medius, than the lower two-thirds, where it corresponds to the Gluteus Maxi- mus. The anterior border is on a line with the Ten- sor Vaginae Feraoris. The shin of the posterior region of the hip is thick and brawny. It cannot be raised in folds with readi- ness, but the entire surface can be moved in a mode- rate degree, from side to side. It is a favorite locality for furuncles. The skin at the line of the crest (iliac furrov/) of the ilium is held well down to the bone, and foi-ms in muscular individuals a well-defined depression. A marked depression overlies the trochanter major. A conspicuous fold (gluteal fold) corresponds to the lower margin of the Gluteus Maximus muscle when in a state of ton e contraction.—The gluteal fold is obliterated in the first stage of coxalgia, for the reason that the function of the Gluteus Maximus, in keeping tense the fascia lata, is suspended, and that the flexor muscles of the femur move the thigh slightly forward. The fold is a guide to the space beneath the Gluteus Maximus, and may be used as a point for the evacu- ation of blood and pus.—When the sciatic nerve is thickened, as in sciatica, it can be felt by deep-palpa- tion beneath the gluteal fold. Four bursie are enumerated in the region of the hip. The first is superficial, and lies between the skin and the tendon of the Gluteus Maximus muscle, as it glides over the trochanter major; a second is deep- seated, and lies between the tendon of the Gluteus Maximus and the trochanter major; a third is be- neath the Gluteus Maximus and the tuberosity of the ischium ; and a fourth, inconstant, is over the sacro-coccygeal articulation. All of these bursa3 may become enlarged, and can be detected in the uudissected subject. The first-named may become distended, and be in part occupied by barley-like nodules, or may suppurate; the second, may suppu- rate, and from its intimate association with the bone lead to caries; the third, may become moderately enlarged, and in the aged exhibit cnormousl}^ thick-