739 THE SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY, ooo^OOc colon, and the kidneys. Both portions of the colon correspond in position to a vertical line which extends upward from the middle of the iliac crest. The descending colon lies a little nearer the median line than the ascending, and is often found lying in front of the lateral edge of the Quadratus Luraborum.^ The position of the kidneys answers to the area of dull percussion in the lateral portion of the lumbar region, and which extends from the line of the twelfth rib to within nearly two inches of the crest of the ilium. The right kidney is, as a rule, from a half to three-quarters of an inch lower than the left. Bartels^ restricts the region of renal dulness to a space which measures two inches (five cm.) square in the "lumbar region." He states, quoting from Hel- ler, that the lower margin of the kidney almost inva- riably lies within the pelvis. According to Trousseau, the loins may be oaderna- tous in peri-nejDhritic abscess. The Upper Extremity.^ The Superficial Anatomy of the upper extremity is treated of under the heads of the Region of the Shoulder. Region of the Arm. Region of the Elbow. Region of the Forearm. Region of the Wrist. Region of the Hand. ' In support of the statement made on p. 274, tliat the muscle may be incised with advantage in searching for the gut in the opera- tion of colotomy, L. McLane Tiffany (Maryland Med. .Journ., Aug. 4, 1883) found that in four operations he was compelled to divide the Quadratus Lumborum freely ; twice because thegut came into view— tlie peritoneum intervening—and twice because the giit was felt to be posterior, {. c, to the vertebral side of the edge of the muscle. Tillaux (Traite d'Anat. Topog., fig. 210) figures the descending colon lying in front of the Quadratus Lumborum, and includes among the structures divided in the operation the Quadratus Lum- borum. See also Braune, Topographical Atlas, pi. xvi. The au- tlior is desirous of making these statements, since some English writers direct the incisions for colotomy to be made on a line beyond tlie lateral border of the muscle. * Ziemmseu's Encyclopsedia, xv. 9. * The fffital position of the superior extremity with the arm adducted, the elbow flexed, the fingers semi-flexed or extended, and the thumb uppermost, may be assumed to be the best for tl.'e study of the subdivisions of tlie limb. As ill tlie relation of nerves to muscles, so in relation of nerves to skin, it is found that tlie regions occupied by extensor muscles (namely, the lateral regions) are more prone to localization of con- stitutional phases of disease than are the flexor surfaces. Such, for example, is tlie localization of the trophic lesions of leprosy. In iclitliyosis the fle.Kor aspects are exempt. From the circumstance tliat in inflammatory invasions of trunks of mixed nerves the motor The Shoulder. The region of the shoulder is treated by continental writers as embracing all the parts entering into the extrinsic muscles as they are in- serted into the clavicle and the scapula, the region of the attachments found between the clavicle and the trunk, as well as those between the scapula and the humerus. In this book' the English usage will be followed, and the front of the shoulder will be in- cluded in the anterior thoracic region ; the back of the shoulder in the posterior thoracic region; and the region of the shoulder proper will be restricted to the rounded surface answering to the Deltoid muscle, and which constitutes the deltoid region of Hyrtl. The shoulder covers the humero-scapular articula- tion, and answers to the upper half, nearly, of the lateral aspect of the humerus. The region of the shoulder is verj^ prominent in muscular individuals, but is flat or even concave in persons in whom dislocation of the head of the humerus exists, or paralysis of the Deltoid muscle has occurred. The axilla and the lateral limit of the infra- clavicular fossa lie to the median side of the region ; the swelling over the Infra-Spinatus muscle, to the lateral side; the swelling of the Triceps muscle, dis- tally to it; and that of the Trapezius muscle, proxi- mally. The spine of the scapula and the acromial portion of the clavicle form parts of a continuous line which can be felt beneath the skin. The deltoid bursa (subacromial bursa) is situated beneath the muscles at the upper margin of the region. It may be enlarged and be readily defined in the living subject. When of large size and when the filaments in tlie nerves resist the effects of morbid action longer than do the sensory, analgesic tracts of the lateral skin surface are often detected in the course of such diseases as Lepra nervorum (A. Nesser, Ziemssen'sHandbuch. Haut-kranklieiten, 1883, i. 622.) The arbitrary division of the superficies of the superior ex- tremity is based upon tlie conceptions of common life or upon con- siderations which are purely surgical in their applications. The position of tlie larger joints has been tlie standard. For general clinical purposes, especially for the student of neurology and der- matology, it is better to divide the limb into regions which are based upon the distribution of the superficial nerves. Thus the region of the Deltoid muscle is defined by the integument receiving the cutaneous branch of the circumflex nerve ; the region of the arm from the Deltoid to the orifices of escape of the internal and external cutaneous nerves, and it is supplied by the lesser internal cutaneous nerve ; and the remaining portion of the limb is sup- plied by the internal cutaneous, the external cutaneous, and the superficial branches of the radial nerves. The points of anastomo- sis of the cutaneous nerves are of clinical interest.—The arm may be divided into median and lateral surfaces, rather than anterior and posterior.