648 THE ALIMBNTAEY CANAL. ooo^looc^ in great part into the pelvis. The coils of the intes- tine generally occupy the umbilical region, extending somewhat beyond it on either side, where they are ordinarily covered by the greater omentum. The coats of the small intestine are four in number, the peritoneal, the longitudinal and circular muscular coats, the submucous coat, and the mucous membrane. The 2)eritoneal covering entirely incloses the canal save where it is joined by the mesentery. The mus- cular coat is better developed in the upper than in the lower part where the fibres are thinner and paler. The longitudinal fibres, weaker than the circular, lie im- mediately beneath the peritoneum, to which they are rather intimately attached. Though but moderately developed at any point, they are best seen on the anterior portion of the bowel. Below, this layer is continued over the ileo-ccecal valve upon the colon. The circular layer is composed of continuous fibres arranged about the entire circumference of the canal in a somewhat spiral manner. Unlike the longitudi- nal fibres they are involved in the formation of the ileo-cfecal valve. The suhmucons layer is better de- veloped in the small intestine than in either the gas- tric or colic walls. It contains a few weak muscular fibres. The mucous coat is probably the most complex structure of the kind in the body. Its essential features are as follows: To a mucous membrane pre- senting the general characters of all such surfaces are added (1), a series of remarkable folds; (2), a highly developed glandular system ; (3), and an elaborate set of radicles of the lymphatic and portal systems pro- jected into the interior of the bowel and constituting the villi. Fig. 176. ml mm From a vertical s Hum of a dog. c, jecting as the viUi lection through a fold of the mucous menihrane of the jeju- the mucosa, containing the crypts of Lieherkiihn, aud pro- ; m, muscularis mucosie ; s, suhmucosa. (1.) The folds are termed the vaJvulse conniventes, or the valves of Kerkring. They are most numerous in the duodenum, and are continued as conspicuous features until the lower part of the ileum is reached, when they gradually disappear. They are composed entirely of duplications of the mucous membrane. They vary in shape from a crescentic fold to one pos- sessing abrupt ends. Occasionally a fold extends en- tirely round the bowel, while others—and these are the more numerous—-describe a smaller curve. They are about two-and-a-half inches long by one-third wide, but are somewhat larger in the duodenum where they overlap one on another. Not infrequently a fold divides again to unite after a short distance, inclosing an island-shaped space between. The folds present a peculiar arrangement as they reach a Peyerian patch. Here they are either arrested or pass partially over it in faint lines. (2.) The glands are of three kinds : racemose, tubu- lar, and closed. The racemose glands are confined to the upper por- tion of the bowel; namely, to the duodenum and the beginning of the jejunum. In the duodenum, extend- ing from just below the pylorus to near the descend- ing portion, numbers of duodenal glands are seen which have received the name of glands of Brunner. —e I From a section through a part of a human Payer's patch, showing the distri- bution of the lymphatic vessels in the mucosa and submucosa. a, villi, with central chyle vessel ; 6, Lieberkiihn's crypts; e, region of muscularis mncosse ; /, lymph follicle ; g, network of lymphatics around the lymph follicle ; i, lym- phatic network of the submucosa ; k, an efferent lymphatic trunk. The tuhular glands are exceedingly abundant, being found everywhere throughout the small intestine. The closed glands are rounded bodies lodged in the submucous coat, a small portion only appearing upon the free surface. They are very vascular, and have solid contents. They are appendages of the lymphatic system.