PREFACE. rpHE essentially modern science of Clinical Anatomy may be said to owe its origin to tlie notable activity which characterized the study of the human body during the last quarter of the eighteenth century. In France, the writings of Portal and Cruveilhier, in Great Britain, those of the first Monro, of William and John Hunter, and of Charles Bell, and in Germany, those of Luschka and Hyrtl attest the tact that the plan of uniting Clinical and Descriptive Anatomy in one volume has the sanction of, if it did not receive its first impress from, the men who have largely contributed to make the science of human anatomy what it now is. But a more intimate union between anatomical and clinical studies has been advocated of late years by the clinicians themselves. The most exhaustive analyses of subjects which are treated after the method of the general anatomist oftentimes will leave points of structure— when the test of clinical study is applied to them—imperfectly exhibited, since the special lines of practical work will suggest comparisons in health and disease which will be naturally left to the clinician to elaborate. It is necessary, as Charcot declares, to exclude as valueless all observations on the diseases and lesions of the brain in which the topography of the lesion is not indicated with rigorous exactitude. The student of anatomy who is at the same time a student of neurology is thus induced to examine with renewed care and increased zeal the ground of the anatomy of the central nervous system. As an outcome of this, the researches of representative workers such as ^Nleynert, Wernicke, Tiirck, and Flechsig have thrown, for the first time, light and meaning upon the minute structure of the brain and of the spinal cord. In like manner, Adams and Hancock became authorities on the anatomy of the foot; Curling, on the anatomy of the testicle; Sibson, on the regional anatomy of the viscera ; and Politzer and Urbantschitsch, on the anatomy of the ear, etc. Is it not going to the very heart of a correct anatomical method to follow students such as these, and to learn of them the way in which the facts of descriptive anatomy should be presented] Do not such workers in effect tell us that the interest taken in the study of the structure of the human body is prospective onh', the exact value not being determined initil the clinical application of knowledge concerning these structures has been stated^ If this position be correctly taken, is not the proper basis of ana- tomical teaching the union of the descriptive and the clinical data at the time when the reader is receiving first impressions of this great subject 1 There are, doubtless, many anatomical facts which have no practical application. The number of these, however, is rapidly diminishing; and even in the imperfect record of this book it will be observed that there are few subjects concerning which a clinical comment cannot be made. In the selection of representative cases which illustrate anatomical themes, care has been taken to accept