7U THE GENITO-UKINAEY ORGANS. =<x;^ooo THE OVARY. The Ovarj (fig. 1, Plate CIX.) is the egg-producing organ. It is of an almond shape, and is situated be- tween the folds of the broad ligament, but projects upon the surface of the posterior layer. It measures one inch and a half to two inches in length, by three- quarters of an inch in width, and is about one-half to one inch in thickness. Its weight is eighty-seven grains. The ovary is slightly thicker at its outer than at its inner end. It is convex upon its posterior surface, but flat on the anterior, where a depression is seen called the hihnn. In addition to the support which it receives from the broad ligament, the ovary is connected with the uterus by the ovarian ligament, and to the infundibulum of the Fallopian tube by a process of the fimbriated border. Structure.—The posterior surface of the ovary is covered with a special epithelium which, instead of being tesselated like that of the adjacent peritoneum, is columnar or prismatic. The ovary is composed of connective tissue containing groups of cells from which are developed the ova. The connective tissue has received the name of the stroma, and the nests of cells the name of the Graafian follicles. The stroma is condensed toward the periphery, where it assumes the appearance of the tunica albu- ginea of the testis. It is not sharply differentiated from the interior substance, though writers gene- rally speak of the peripheral layer as the cortex, and the interior as the medullary substance. The medul- lary substance converges toward the hilum. Inter- mixed with the foregoing are bloodvessels and nerves, with some elastic tissue and muscular tibres. Those portions of the stroma towards the cortex, containing the ova, and sometimes called j^orenchyma, are largely composed of small spindle-cells disposed in variously'' interlacing bundles. The nature of these spindle-cells is still disputed ; by some writers they are considered to be an imperfectly developed form of muscular tissue, b}'' others but a modified connective tissue. The primitive Graafian follicles are minute rounded masses of cells, from or among which the ova are pro- liferated or developed. The follicles are arranged in three sets. Those of the peripheral set are the most numerous, are smaller than the others, each follicle having a diameter of one one-hundredth of an inch, and are the most primitive and least developed. Great numbers exist in the ovary of the foetus. Those of the set below the foregoing are much fewer in number, but farther developed, and present a diameter ranging from one one-hundredth to one- twentieth of an inch. The deepest set is composed of yet fewer and larger follicles. It is from these that the ova as a rule mature. They gradually come to the surface and discharge their ova, at the times when the ovary is clasped by the fimbriated extremity of the Fallo- pian tube. At the time of maturation of each ovum the follicle is limited by a distinct membrane, on the inner side of which are several layers of epithelial cells, the memhrana granulosa; the mature follicle is usually distended with an albuminous fluid, the liquor folliculi; towards the centre of the sac is found the ovum, itself incased in several layers of cells—discus proliyerus—which are connected by a stalk-like mass Fi-. 192. Human ovum mas;nifled To diameters. c. Germiuative vesicle. a. Viteiliue membrane. d. Germiuative spot. 6. ViteUus. with those lining the follicle. The entire cellular contents of the Graafian follicle—membrana granu- losa, discus proligerus, and ovum—are descendants of the cells of the primary yerminal epithelium of the foetus. After the escape of the egg, the cavity of the folli- cle becomes rapidly filled by a blood-clot, which, although primarily of a reddish-brown color, assumes in time a yellowish color, and has received from this circumstance the name of the corpus luteum. This coagulum disappears after the fourth month in the non-pregnant condition, but, should conception occur the corpus luteum develops and forms an oval figure, measuring three-fourths of an inch in length by one half of an inch in thickness, and persists during gestation. Between the sixth and the seventh months the corpus luteum contracts, and in the nintli month is greatly reduced in size. It does not entirely disappear, however, until the tenth month. The ovum is a typical cell having a diameter one one-hundred-and-twentieth of an inch. It is inclosed by a distinct limiting membrane or cell-wall, the zona pellucida. The interior mass is called the yelk, and cor- responds to the cell-contents. Floating within the yelk is a nucleus, measuring one seven-hundred-and- twentieth of an inch in diameter, which is called the Graafian or yerminal vesicle, and within this a nucleo-