82 TERMS USED IN COOKING Braisiere: A saucepan with ledges tc the lid, so as tcput fire cn the top. Brider : To truss fowls with a needle and thread. Brioche : A kind of light spongy cake. Buisson : A cluster or bush of anything piled on a dish. Callipash : The glutinous flesh of the turtle found on the upper shell. Callipee : The same found on the under shell. Cannelons : Small rolls of anything filled with meat, fruit, or minces. Capilotade : A hash of poultry. Caramel: Burnt sugar. Casserole : A crust of rice, which, having been moulded to the re- quired shape, is filled with mince, fricassee, &c. Charlotte : Thin slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and placed in a plain mould with fruit or cream. Chartreuse: An ornamental entree composed chiefly of quenelle forcemeat and arranged in a plain mould. Cheviiser : To line a mould. Civet: A dark thick stew. Compote : Stewed fruits served with syrup. Confiture : Preserves, sweets, jams, &c. ConsommS : Strong clear gravy or broth. Contise : Small scallops of truffles, tongue, See., inlaid as ornaments by incision in fillets of any kind. Coulis : A rich brown gravy. Couronne, en : To dish up entrees in the form of a crown. Croquantes : A bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. Croquettes : Minces of meat, fish, or fowl made into various shapes, rolled in egg and bread-crumbs and fried crisp. Croustades : Fried shapes of bread upon which various entrees are served. Crolttons : Fried sippets of bread used for garnish. Dariole : A sweet tart baked in a mould. Datibe, en : Meat, fowl, or game stewed in sauce. Daubilre : An oval stewpan. Desosser: To bone poultry, game, fish, &c. Entree : Dishes handed round after the fish, comprising cutlets, salmis, chartreuses, and all made dishes, &c. Entremets : Second-course dishes, comprising dressed vegetables, savouries, and sweets of all kinds. Escalopes : Collops, small thin round pieces of meat, poultry, or fish. Espagnole : Brown sauce, very rich. Fagot: A small bunch of parsley and thyme tied up with a bay leaf. Fanchonnettes : Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce : Forcemeat stuffing. Farcie : Stuffed. Feuilletage: Rough paste.