XHniversitv? Xibuai*^ Presented by Dr W.Q. Mclntyre 1983/84 Book J01 14 0025798 5798:Digitized by tine Internet Arcliive in 2015 https://archive.org/cletails/b21467742_0006ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONARY OP MEDICINE AND SURGERYPrinted hy Neill & Co., Limited, Edinbwgh, FOE WILLIAM GREEN & SONS. November 1907.mo GREENS ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAKf OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY vol: VI LUMBAR REGION - NEPHROTOMY WIllIAM GREEN C SONS EDINBURGH G LONDONGLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARYEDITOEIAL NOTE This, the sixth, volume of the Encyclopedia and Dictionary of Medicine and Surgery, contains more subject headings (1228) than any previous volume, excepting always the second (which dealt with the rubrics of C). This is to be accounted for by the fact that the large letter M is included, as well as parts of L and N. The outstanding article is that on Diseases of the Lungs, which extends from page 19 to page 88; it is subdivided into parts dealing with Tuberculosis, Pulmonary Fibrosis, Pneumonokoniosis, Gangrene, Emphysema, Vascular Disorders, Syphilis, Abscess, and Parasitic Affections. Another long article is that on Diseases of the Mammary Gland. There are forty-eight articles of more than 1000 words in length. These range in size from the sixty-nine-page article on the Inmgs to the one-page contribution on Malignant Pustule. Other noteworthy papers which are found in this group are those on the Lumbar Region, on Lunacy, on Lupus Erythematosus, on the Lymphatic System, on Malaria, on Malingering, on Maternal Impressions, on Measles, on the Mediastinum, on Forensic Aledicine, on the History of Medicine, on the Memory in Health and Disease, on the Aleninges and their Diseases (including Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis), on the Menopause, on the Disorders of Menstruation, on Mental Deficiency, on the Mesentery, on Meteorology, on Micro-Organisms, on the Microscope, on Milh, on Mineral Waters, on Morphinomania and Allied Drug Habits, on Injuries and Diseases of the Mouth and Jaws, on Mumps, on Diseases of the Muscles, on Mycetoma, on Myiasis, on the Affections of the Nails, on the Region of the Neck, and on Nephritis. New articles have been included dealing with the Laiv as to the Medical Practitioner (p. 286), with Mercury (p. 363), and with the Metric System; and I have endeavoured to give an up-to-date account of the Midivives Act of 1902, and of the effects which its working is having upon medical practice in England and upon the training of midwives in Great Britain and Ireland. Of articles of less than 1000 words but of at least ten lines in length, there are eighty-two. These include paragraphs dealing with Lupinosis, Lycopodium, Lymphadenoma, Lymphatism, Lymphodermia Perniciosa, Mabey's Malady, Macrocheilia, Magnesium, Magnesium-Perhydrol, Malformation, Malignant Disease, Malt, Mandragora, Manganesium, Mania, Manna, Marasmus, Marriage, Marrow, Marsupialisation, Massage, Mast Cells, Mastoid, Masturbation, Maticce Folia, Meat, Meckel's Diverticulum, Melancholia, Membrana, Membrane, Mendel's Law, Meningocele, Menorrhagia, Menthol, Methane, Methylene Blue, Metritis, Microcephalus, Micrococcus, Micromegaly, Microphthalmos, Midwifery, Migraine, Migration, Milk Laboratories, Millon's Reagent, Mithridatism, Mitosis, Molimen, Molybdenum, Morphoea, Morvan's Disease, Moschus, Mountain Sickness, Mucin, Mucous Membranes, Murphy's Button, Traumatic Affections of Muscles, Mustard, Myelitis, Myelocyte, Myrrh, Ncbvus, and Naphthaline. Most of these articles are new.vi EDITORIAL NOTE There are, finally, almost 1100 short paragraphs or definitions dealing with a great variety of subjects. Nearly all these have cross-references attached to them which will conduct the reader to articles in the Encylopedia and Dictionary where he will find them more fully con- sidered. From these rubrics, a few may be singled out to give some idea of the scope of the whole series. There are paragraphs on Lunnla, Lupinus, Lupoid, LuschJca's Bursa, Lusus Naturce, Lutein, Lycetol, LympJiagogues, Lymphangitis, Lymphoma, Lysis, Lysol, Lytta, M'^Burney's Point, Maceration, MackinneVs Ventilator, Macleyine, Macrocyte, Macroglossia, Macula Lutea, Madarosis, Magendie^s Foramen, Magnan^s Sign, Maieutics, Main-en-griffe, Malaise, Malassez' Disease, Malic Acid, Mallet Finger, Malprese7itation, Malthusianism, Malum, MandeVs Test, Mann's Method, Manol, Mantle Layer, Marechal Test, Margarine, Massa, Massai Disease, Mastic, Mastodynia, Materies Morhi, Maternity Hospital, Matzoon, Mazalysis, Meatotomy, Meckelectomy, Meconium, Medication, Megalomania, Meissner's Corpuscles, Melanosis, Melicera, Mellin's Food, Melon-Seed Bodies, Menarche, Meniere's Disease, Meningism, Meniscus, Menostasis, Menstruum, Mentagra, Meralgia, Mernmid Foetus, Merycism, Mesatipellic, Mesonephros, Mesotan, Metamerism, Metatarsalgia, Meteorism, Methyl Chloride, Metopagus, Metrotome, Microcoria, Microgyry, Micromelus, Microstomia, Milian's Method, Milk Fever, Mimetic Affections, Mitome, Mobilisation, Mogigraphia, Mola, Molluscum, Mongolism, Monopus, " Mooncalf," Morcellation, Morton's Fluid, Mortuaries, Mountain Fever, Moxa, Mucocele, Multipara, Mutism, Myalgia, Mycelium, Mydriasis, Myeloma, Myositis, Myringoplasty, Nahothian Cysts, Naftalan, Nakra, Nanism, Nargol, Natality, Necrosis, Neofaetus, Neonatus, Neopallium, Nepenthe, Nephrotomy, etc., etc. In this volume, as in those that have preceded it, I have contributed all the short para- graphs and the great majority of the articles of less than 1000 words in length; and I have made myself responsible for the whole system of cross-referencing. New plates and figures, illustrating Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis, "Mongolian" Imbecility, Hygroma of the Neck, etc., have been added. J. W. BALLANTYNE. October 28, 1907.vii CONTENTS THE CHIEF ARTICLES IN VOLUME VI., WITH THEIR AUTHORS PAGE Lumbar Region. C. A. Sturrock, M.A., M.B., F.R.C.S.E. . . . . 1 Lunacy. J. F. Sutherland, M.D., F.R.S.E. . . . . . .3 Lungs ........... 19 Tuberculosis of, Pulmonary Fibrosis, and Pneumonokoniosis. R. W. Philip, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ......... 19 Gangrene and Emphysema. S. H. Habershon, M.D., F.R.C.P. . . .71 Vascular Disorders, Syphilis, etc. R. A. Fleming, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . . 77 Lupus Erythematosus. Norman Walker, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . . . .88 Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology of. G. Lovell Gulland, M.D., F.R.C.P.E.. ......... 93 Malaria. D. C. Rees, M.R.C.S. . . . . . . . .113 Malignant Pustule. Sheridan Delepine, M.B.Edin., M.Sc.Manch. . . . 151 Malingering. Tennyson D. Patmore, M.R.C.S., D.P.H.Camb. .... 152 Mammary Gland, Diseases of. H. J. Stiles, F.R.C.S.E. ..... 166 Maternal Impressions. J. W. Ballantyne, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. .... 217 Measles. F. F. Caiger, M.D., F.R.C.P. ....... 220 Mediastinum. F. De Havilland Hall, M.D. F.R.C.P. . . . . .230 Medicine ........... 240 Forensic. H. Harvey Littlejohn, B.Sc, F.R.C.S.E. . . . . .240 History of. E. F. Willoughby, M.D., D.P.H.Lond. . . . . .270 Memory. W. Elder, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ....... 295 Meninges ........... 305 1. Anatomy, Physiology, Vascular Disorders, Inflammations, etc. Ashley W. Mackintosh, M.A., M.D. ........ 305 II. Tuberculous Meningitis, and Posterior Basic Meningitis. G. F. Still, M.D., F.R.C.P. .......... 316 III. Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis. Wm. Osier, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S. . . 324 Menopause. Mrs. Garrett Anderson, M.D. ...... 332 Menstruation, Disorders op. Christopher Martin, M.B., F.R.C.S. . . . 335 Mental Deficiency. G. E. Shuttleworth, M.D. . . . . . . 354viii CONTENTS PAGE Mercury. H. J. Dunbar, M.D. ........ 363 Meteorology. E. F. Willoughby, M.D., D.P.H. . . . . . .369 Micro-Organisms. G. H. F. Nuttall, M.D., Ph.D. . . . . . 388 Microscope, The. W. T. Ritchie, M.D. . . . . . . .397 MiDWiVES. J. W. Ballantyne, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . . . . . .403 Miliaria. Leslie Roberts, M.D. ........ 413 Milk. E. F. Willoughby, M.D., D.P.H. . . . . . . .414 Mind, Education of. Fletcher Beach, M.B., F.R.C.P. ..... 424 Mineral Waters. William Armstrong, M.R.C.S. . . . • . . . 431 Mirror-Writing. William Elder, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. . . . . .434 Molar Pregnancy. W, E. Fothergill, M.D., B.Sc. . . . . .438 Morphinomania. H. C. Drury, M.D., F.R.C.P.I. ...... 442 Mouth and Jaws, Injuries and Diseases of. H. P. Dean, F.R.C.S., M.S. . . 455 Mumps. J. S. Fowler, M.D., F.R.C.P.E. ....... 473 Muscles, Diseases of. F. E. Batten, M.D., F.R.C.P. ..... 477 Myasthenia Gravis. Edwin Bramwell, M.B., F.R.C.P.E. ..... 494 Mycetoma. Lieut.-Colonel W. Keith Hatch, F.R.C.S., I.M.S. . . . .499 Myiasis, etc. D. M. Hutton, M.D., B.Sc........ 504 Nails, Affections of. George Pernet, M.R.C.S. ...... 513 Neck, Region of. A. A. Scot Skirving, M.B., F.R.C.S.E., C.M.G. . . .524 Nephritis. Nestor Tirard, M.D., F.R.C.P. ...... 531ix LIST OF ILLUSTI^ATIONS PAGE Lungs, Diseases of : Tuberculosis— Cbart 1. Showing uniform temperature of 97°-98-4° F. lasting for months in patient with abundant physical signs of tuberculous condensation and moisture on both sides (open-air treatment) ...... 36 ,, 2. Showing sub-febrile course of temperature in case of bilateral pulmonary tuberculosis with physical signs indicative of considerable disintegration . 37 „ 3. Showing more or less continued pyrexia in patient with wide involvement of both lungs, more particularly of one base, simulating acute pneumonia but lasting for weeks . . . . . . . .37 „ 4. Illustrative of reactionary pyrexia in relation to recurrent hfemorrhage (temperature before and afterwards being continuously normal) . . 37 5. Showing intermittent type of temperature in patient with widespread bilateral disease ......... 38 „ 6. Illustrative of pyrexic disturbance, produced by injection of 1 mgr. tuberculin for diagnostic purposes, in patient in w-hom tubercle bacilli were unobtainable owing to absence of expectoration ...... 38 Macrodactyly, Hypertrophy of the Digits . . . . . . .111 Malaria— Fig. 1. Illustrating anatomy of Benign Tertian Parasite . . . .118 „ 2. Benign Tertian Parasite (diagrammatic) . . . . .119 Benign Tertian x 1000, stained with carbol thionin {Plate) . . Facing 120 „ 3. Ova of Cidex in characteristic boat-shaped mass . . . .121 „ 4. Larva of Culex . . . . . . . . .121 ,, 5. Pupa of Culex . . . . . . . . .122 ,, 6. 0\ei of Anopheles, a, A. claviger; b, A. hifwcatus . . . .123 ,, 7. Larva of Ano2jheles . . . . . . . .123 ,, 8. Pupa of ^wqpAe^es . . . . . . . .124 ,, 9. Besting attitude of Culex. (After Waterhouse) . . . .124 ,, 10. Resting attitude of Anopheles. (After Waterhouse) . . . .125 ,, 11. Female Anopheles ........ 125 ,, 12. Female Culex ......... 126 „ 13. Head of Female Anopheles . . . . . . .126 „ 14. Jiea^d oi Uale Anopheles . . . . . . .126 ,, 15. Mosquito cycle of the Malaria Parasite . . . . . .127 Malaria Parasite, illustrating the evolution of the three species (Coloured Plate) . Facing 134 Chart 1. From a case of Benign Tertian Malaria . . . . .147 „ 2. „ ,, Quartan Malaria . . . . . .147 ,, 3. ,, ,, Malignant Malaria . . . . . .148 „ 4. ,, „ Double Benign Tertian ..... 148 „ 5. ,, „ Malignant Tertian Malaria ..... 149 ,, 6^ „ ,, Quotidian Malignant Malaria. (After Bignami, Rome) . 149 Mammary Gland, Diseases of— Fig. 1. From the Mamma of a girl, set. 18 . . . . . .168 ,, 2. Shows the structure of an Atrophied and Fibrous Corpus Mammte of a woman, £et. 58 . . . . . . . . .169 ,, 3. Slice from the Cancerous Mamma of a woman, set. 38 . . . . 170 ,, 4. Peripheral slice from the Cancerous Mamma of a spinster, set. 39 . .170 „ 5. Opposite surface of the slice illustrated in the previous figure . . .171 ,, 6. From the Mamma of a full-time female foetus, to show the secretion of milk . 175 ,, 7. Vertical slice through the Mamma of a stout woman who suffered for two years from Multiple Sinuses . . . . . . . .178 „ 8. Chronic Lobular Mastitis and Multiple Cystic Disease . . . .179X LIST OF ILLUSTEATIONS PAGE Mammary Gland, Diseases of— Fig. 9. From the same case as Fig. 8. Shows a variety of changes in the Parenchyma . 180 „ 10. Chronic Lobular Mastitis from an unmarried woman, set. 38 . . . 181 „ 11. Small painful inflammatory fibro-adenomatous Nodule removed from a patient suffering from Chronic Lobular Mastitis . . . . .182 ,, 12. Slice through half a Fibro-adenoma (natural size) removed from a woman, ajt. 35 188 „ 13. Vertical slice through a large small-round-celled Sarcoma of the Mamma . 191 „ 14. Vertical Section through an area of skin overlying a Cancer of the Breast . 196 „ 15. Shows Cancer spreading in the Lymphatics of the Breast Tissue . . 200 ,, 16. In the centre of the field is a main Lactiferous Duct lined by normal epithelium 200 ,, 17. Shows a large Perivascular Lymphatic (cut obliquely) plugged with cancer cells. 201 „ 18. Transverse Section of one of the Ligaments of Cooper .... 201 „ 19. Cut surface showing a large and a smaller Paravascular Lymphatic Embolus . 202 ,, 20. Section of the Retromammary Fat and Pectoral Fascia showing several small blood-vessels accompanied by efferent mammary lymphatics . . . 202 ,, 21. Shows the Cancerous Paravascular Lymphatic at the lower part of Fig. 20 more highly magnified ........ 203 ,, 22. Cancerous Efferent Paravascular Lymphatics accompanying the blood-vessels and nerves which occupy the interfascicular connective tissues of the pecto- ralis major ......... 203 „ 23. Section of the Fatty Tissue of the Axilla immediately adjacent to a lymphatic gland .......... 204 „ 24. Vertical Section of Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue covering the mamma . 204 „ 25. Transverse Section of an Axillary Lymphatic Trunk .... 205 „ 26. Portion of a Lymphatic Gland the size of a small pea .... 205 „ 27. Vertical slice through a Diffuse Carcinoma of the Mamma, treated with nitric acid .......... 206 „ 28. Peripheral slice of a mamma showing Cancerous Foci disseminated (in the para- mammary fat) upon the cut surface made by the surgeon while excising the organ .......... 206 „ 29. Paget's Disease of the Nipple . . . . . . .209 „ 30. From the same specimen as Fig. 29, highly magnified, to show the structure of the Malignant Epithelial Cells . . . . . .209 ,, 31. Horizontal Section through the Nipple in an early stage of Paget's Disease . 210 „ 32. From the same specimen as Fig. 31. (Less highly magnified) . . .211 Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal— Fig. 1. Showing typical position assumed {Plate) .... Facing 326 „ 2. With Arthritis of Left Knee-Joint {Plate) .... Facing 326 „ 3. Showing Head-Retraction, Opisthotonus, Rigidity of Legs and Arms, Clenching of Hands, and Plantar Flexion of Toes {Plate) . . . Facing 326 ,, 4. Showing the Extreme Emaciation which characterises the late stage of the disease; also Kernig's Sign {Plate) ..... Facing 330 ,, 5. Commencing Hydrocephalus shown by down-turned position of the Eyes {Plate) Facing 330 Chart 1. Type of Continuous Pyrexia ....... 327 ,, 2. A Remittent type of temperature ...... 328 „ 3. An Intermittent form of temperature ..... 329 Fig. 1. Kernig's Sign, showing the strong contraction of the flexors on attempting to extend the leg ........ 330 Meteorology— Fig. 1. Diagram of Barometer ........ 370 „ 2. Barometric Scale ........ 370 3. Chart showing Rainfall in Temperate Climates, and in Assam and Madras (City) 374 A. Table of Tensions and Dew-Points, or Weight of Vapour constituting Saturation at every Degree, from 0° to 100° F. . . . . . . 374 B. Table of Glaisher's Factors ....... 375 Fig. 4. Table showing Difference between the Dry and Wet Bulb . . . 376 5. A Wind-Rose ......... 376 Mongolian Imbecility {Plate) ....... Facing 440 Mycetoma 500 Neck— Hygroma or Multilocular Cystic Tumour of the Neck ..... 5281 VOL. VI ENCYCLOPEDIA AND DICTIONAEY OF MEDICINE AND SUKGEEY Lumbar Reg'ion, The. Anatomy ...... 1 Examination ..... 2 Pain ...... 2 Injuries ...... 2 Diseases ...... 3 Anatomy.—More than thirty subdivisions of the abdomen have been described, but that of Cunningham's seems the most simple and natural; in it the abdomen is divided into areas by two vertical and two horizontal planes, the vertical planes passing through the middle of Pou part's ligaments, the horizontal planes being at the level of the lower costal margins and the highest part of the iliac crests respec- tively. The lumbar areas are those situated between the horizontal lines and external to the vertical lines, and their posterior boundary may be represented by a line drawn through the vertebral spines. Normally, the contents of the right lumbar region are the ascending colon, part of the right kidney, and part of the ileum; of the left lumbar region, the descend- ing colon, part of the great omentum, part of the left kidney, and part of the jejunum. At times, a kidney when floating may either be found in some other region, or be made to leave the lumbar region. It should not be forgotten that the pleura sometimes extends below the margin of the twelfth rib, when it comes to lie very near the lumbar area. The anatomy of the lumbar region is best understood by study- ing the arrangement of the lumbar fascia. This fascia occupies the interval between, and is attached to the twelfth rib and the cartilage of the eleventh rib above, while below it is attached to the posterior third of the crest of the ilium. Anteriorly, the fascia gives attach- ment to, and forms the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; posteriorly, it splits into three layers or lamellae, the posterior layer being attached to the tips of the spinous processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and gives origin to the latissimus dorsi, serratus posticus inferior, and internal oblique muscles. Between this layer and the middle one, which is attached to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, lies the erector spinae, while the quadratus lumborum lies between the middle and the anterior lamellae, the latter of which is attached to the bodies and roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The psoas muscle lies in front of the anterior lamella, a fact to be borne in mind when tracing the course of a " psoas " abscess. The upper- most portion of the anterior lamella is attached to the lower border of the twelfth rib, and is known as the ligamentum arcuatum externum. The posterior border of the external oblique muscle extends from the last rib to the crest of the ilium, and it is occasionally overlapped by the latissimus dorsi, though generally a tri- angular interval exists between the two muscles near the crest of the ilium, in which lies a portion of the internal oblique; this interval, known as Petit's triangle, is bounded in front by the external oblique, behind by the latissimus dorsi, and below by the crest of the ilium ; while a portion of the internal oblique forms the floor, which is pushed in front of the sac of a lumbar hernia. The lumbar arteries and nerves are arranged similarly to those in the dorsal region, but they interfere with the integrity of the lumbar fascia when they penetrate it in their course, and it is probably through these penetrations that deep collections of pus find their way to the surface. There is a considerable amount of subcutaneous areolar tissue in the lumbar region which favours the accumulation of large quantities of pus, and in stout individuals there may be a lai'ge deposit of fat, especially in the posterior part of this area. The thickness of the skin and theLUMBAR REGION, THE 2 density of the fascia tend to prevent deep abscesses pointing in this region, and favour their extension in the line of least resistance into the pelvis and groin. Examination.—The methods to be employed when examining the abdomen have already been described, and in this article it will, therefore, only be necessary to mention some additional methods in the examination of the lumbar area of the abdomen. The examining hands should never be lifted off the abdomen, but moved gradually along the abdominal wall. Deep palpation of the lumbar region is not easily carried out except in those who are very thin, emaciated, or whose muscles are relaxed under the influence of an ansesthetic; the examination is most successful when the patient lies recumbent, with the thighs flexed and the mouth open. The patient should be directed to sigh, and the examining hands should follow the abdominal wall during the respiratory movements. When the interval between the costal margin and the crest of the ilium is small the difficulties of examination are in- creased. In bimanual palpation the hand on the anterior part of the abdomen should be kept motionless, while the posterior wall is pushed forward against it by the other hand. The patient should also be examined lying upon the aff'ected side, and then on the sound side. In the latter position, if a pillow be placed in the armpit or below the shoulder, the lumbar interspace is diminished, but the muscles are very much relaxed, which permits of deep pressure; this attitude is of great value when the nature and deep origin rather than the exact relations of some tumour are to be made out. It is important to ascertain the direction in which a tumour is growing. Some patients are so extremely hypertesthetic that a satis- factory examination cannot be made without the aid of an anfesthetic. Finally, the patient should, especially in obscure cases, be examined in the knee-elbow position. Percussion of the lumbar region should be made with the patient lying upon the back, then upon either side, and then upon the face; or the back may be percussed with the patient standing erect, and then bending over a chair. Except in cases of chronic peritonitis, short mesentery, or excess of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, when a patient who is suffering from ascites is turned upon his side, the air-contain- ing bowel is floated to the highest point and gives a resonant note, while the gravitation of the fluid to the most dependent part gives rise there to a dull note on percussion. Measurement of the lumbar region is some- times of value; the distance from the umbilicus to the spine of the third lumbar vertebra being compared on either side, as well as the distance from the costal margin to the crest of the ilium. Fluctuation may often be obtained in collec- tions of pus in the lumbar region, such as abscess in connection with the vertebrae or ribs, and by tapping one side of the abdominal wall a wave may be transmitted to, and felt at the other side in cases where there is much fluid in the peritoneal cavity. Pain.—The following facts afford some ex- planation of the greater frequency of pain in the lumbar region than in almost any other part of the body, with the exception of the face and head. 1. Sensation, and therefore pain, is conveyed through the lumbar spinal nerves, the anterior divisions of which are intimately connected with the lumbar ganglia of the smypathetic system, and through them with the plexuses of the sympathetic system, such as the pelvic, vesical, prostatic, uterine, and vaginal. It is reasonable to suppose that a pathological condition of the pelvic viscera, and even excessive stimulation of the organs of generation, will exalt the sensi- bility of the lumbar spinal nerves. 2. The lumbar and lumbo-spinal muscles have an important part to play in maintaining the body in an erect position, as also in stooping and lifting weights. Most of us are familiar with the relief obtained on lying down when we are tired, and have a "pain in the back"— in other words, when we put the lumbar muscles out of action. 3. The frequency of disease of the kidneys, the anatomical position of the kidneys, and the intimate connection between the renal plexus and the lumbar nerves, no doubt account for many of the pains in the lumbar region. Pain in the lumbar region is experienced in many diseases which have no very obvious connection with the lumbar nerves, e.g. in influenza and small- pox. In lumbago (see vol. v. p. 527), a condition described as a rheumatic myalgia, the lumbar and lumbo-spinal muscles are those most fre- quently involved; in this condition the onset of the pain in the lumbar region is occasionally so sudden as almost to warrant one in believing that a rupture of muscular fibrils or a small hsemorrhage into the muscles may have occurred. Neuralgia in the lumbar nerves is by no means uncommon, and herpes or "shingles" involving these nerves is not rare. This condition should always be borne in mind when a patient, even though he gives a history of a strain, complains of severe pain in the lumbar region which usually precedes for a day or two the eruption of the characteristic vesicles. Injuries.—The principles which underlie the diagnosis and treatment of injuries in general are applicable to injuries of the lumbar region. It is important, however, to recognise the direc- tion and depth of penetrating wounds; for organs not situated in the lumbar region may be wounded by weapons penetrating obliquely. As most people prefer to lie on the back, the3 LUMBAR REGION, THE posterior part of the lumbar region is suit- able for the drainage of those wounds when necessary. Diseases.—The various swellings and morbid conditions generally which are met with in the lumbar region may be grouped as follows (but a mere enumeration of these conditions, with- out any description of their diagnosis, is all that can be given here; for full particulars the reader is referred to the articles on the subjects mentioned):— 1. Enlargement of those organs which nor- mally lie in the lumbar region, e.g. hydro- nephrosis. 2. Enlargement of organs which do not nor- mally lie in this region, but which by their enlargement appear in the region, e.g. hepatic, splenic, etc. 3. Tumours originating in the lumbar con- tents, e.g. sarcoma of kidney. 4. Tumours oi-iginating in structures lying outside the lumbar region, e.g. carcinoma and hydatid of liver, ovarian cysts. 5. Collections of fluid—serous, as in abdo- minal ascites; heemorrhagic, as in rupture of the liver and spleen; purulent, as in empyema, abscess in connection with disease of the ribs, vertebrae, bones of the pelvis, the kidney, the csecum and appendix, the spleen; fsecal, from rupture of the intestine; urinary, from rupture of the kidney, ureter, or bladder. 6. Hernia, the sac usually containing intestine or omentum, or both, and most often protruding through the triangle of Petit, or through an operation cicatrix. 7. In the cellular tissue of the lumbar region emphysema extending from the thorax, or from rupture of the intestines; urine, as the result of extravasation from rupture of the urethra; and pus, due to caries of the ribs or spine, or with no evident source of origin, this form being- met with in children, are also conditions to be borne in mind. In the walls of the lumbar region tumours— fatty and cystic—and hsematomata may be met with. Lumbricales Muscles. /6'eeFingers (^Medical and Surgical Anatomy). LumbriCOid Worms. Parasites {Nematodes, Ascaris). Lunacy. Lunacy 3 Statistics, British and Colonial. . 5 Geographical Distribution in Great Britain and Ireland ... 6 Sex, Age, and Civil Condition . . 7 Season ...... 8 Occupation ..... 8 Forms of Mental Disorder . . 9 Moral and Physical Causes . . 9 Growth of Lunacy .... 9 Lunacy Laws — Functions of Medical Practitioners . . . . .11 Certification, Visitation, etc.— England— 1. Chancery Lunatics . . .13 2. Private Patients . . . .14 3. Pauper Patients .... 14 Scotland— 4. Private and Pauper Patients . 15 5. Ciiratory Patients . . .15 Ireland— 6. Private and Pauper . . .16 Lunacy Administration . . . .16 The Insane in Private Dwellings . 16 Financial Burden of Pauper Lunacy . 18 See also Insanity (vol. iv.). Lunacy.—The lunacy of a country has a pro- found significance whether it be viewed from the standpoint of the individual or of society. In recent years, owing to allegations pointing to an alarming increase, the problem of lunacy has specially engaged the attention of the legislature, of lunacy executives, of psychologists, of statis- ticians, of sociologists, and of the Press ; and disputants of eminence have entered the field of controversy in favour of and in opposition to the allegation. Definitions of lunacy, legal and scientific, have been attempted in all ages, only to be abandoned in the light of that further knowledge vouclisafed by jurists, psychologists, and ethical writers. The difficulty of finding anything like a satisfactory definition was encountered in the eighteenth century, when lunacy was supposed to cover only typical cases of mental derange- ment and mental deficiency, and rejected un- doubted cases of insanity. How much more difficult of definition is lunacy in the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth centuries, when by the investigation of psycho- logists and sociologists the mesh, so to speak, has been so narrowed as now to embrace not only well-marked cases of insanity and imbecility, but persons with that slight mental warp which unfits them to earn their living or to have an independent existence, and persons with manifestations of conduct not in harmony with their surroundings. There is as complete a reversal of former ideas as to what constitutes lunacy as there is in regard to the vulgar superstitions handed down from the days of witchcraft, and still held in the more remote Celtic fringes of the country regarding the connection of the moon's phases with attacks of insanity. Lunacy for all practical purposes may be defined as that state of mind which influences conduct to such a degree as to put the indi- vidual out of touch with himself or his en- vironments, or both, and to necessitate that interference by one of the various methods,LUNACY 4 appropriate to the case to be dealt with pre- scribed by statute, which results in the depriva- tion of liberty, and of the control of one's aifairs to a greater or less extent. Legal intervention has the effect of putting the individual into the category of the four or five in every thousand of the population who live out of harmony with others, and with their surroundings. The portals to lunacy have in recent years, in a large measure due to the study of French alienists,! been so widened as to admit "de- generates," sufferers from epilepsy, senility, organic brain disease, and likewise from the vesanias or functional insanities such as the hypochondriacal, the hysterical, the climacteric, alcoholic, saturnine, syphilitic, influenzal, etc.— in short, that large class whose mental balance is upset by toxines from without, and from within owing to a deranged metabolism. The degenerate and functional list is also supposed to include moral imbeciles, the cranks and eccentrics of society, the ill-balanced {dese- quilibres), sexual perverts of advanced years with prostates enlarged and function so altered as to suggest auto-intoxication, neurasthenics, dipsomaniacs, kleptomaniacs, and that numer- ous class with various obsession propensities.^ Mental states such as are implied by these terms show the insuperable difficulty of attempt- ing to define with anything like certainty what is lunacy and what is nervous disease. The mere mention of such a list indicates that the alliance between the typical cases of lunacy and persons with these defects is a closer one than that of " great wits " and madness. Not only are persons in the mental states implied techni- cally of unsound mind, but there is nothing in the statutes to bar their admission to official registers and to public relief and treatment in institutions and in private dwellings. But it should be made plain that the spirit of the law never contemplated the registration or lodgment in asylums of aged persons whose mental decline or disorder is simply the decay inci- dental to old age and not the efl:ect of a morbid state of the body. If it were practicable it would be desirable to define more precisely the dividing line between insanity and senility. Common-sense exercised by all concerned in the registration of the insane and uninfluenced by grants-in-aid, and the desire on the part of relatives to undertake moral responsibilities, should go a long way to bring about a proper attitude towards such cases. Among the poorer 1 Brouardel, Magnan, Motet, Ballet, Regis, Toulouse, Fabret, etc. ^ Dr. John Macpherson, Commissioner in Lunacy, in his work on Mental Affections points out, and in this most observers will be disposed to agree witli him, how insanity under newer conceptions is correlated with other diathesic conditions and placed on the sure foundation of physical disease, and that it is "a degeneration which extends from mere disorders of metabolism up to the most profound nervous and physical abnormalities." classes of society such an attitude may not be expedient in cases where senility, with or with- out hemiplegia, aphasia, etc., is complicated by manifestations of conduct, etc., which make it difficult to care for such properly in an ordinary household. Such cases are fitted for a public hospital, a workhouse hospital, or a hospital for incurables. And there is no valid reason why the register of lunacy is only open to those as well as to unmistakable cases of insanity. With truer conceptions of psychology, ethics, and social pathology, there is no reason why in the coming years the incorrigible tramp suffering from the cacoethes amhulandi or what German writers call Vagalmndenwahnsinn, whose mode of life is a puzzle to ordinary observers, and to the officials in workhouse and "dosser" houses who at times have him under observation, and suggests to the normal man one of great discomfort and misery, should not find his place in the ranks of the large army of degeneracy, and thereby of lunacy. But a life of ennui, footsoreness, and discomfort no more disturb him than the grime on his skin, and the pediculi and acari which thrive undisturbed. Then there is the inveterate prostitute, to whom the psychological tape has not yet been applied, the inveterate rearer of illegitimate children, of whom there are generations who are not in the true sense bad or immoral, but who are lacking in resistive power, and do not seem greatly if at all distressed by repeated breaches of the moral law, and by the burdens imposed upon herself and the parish authorities; and the borderland cases in which the conduct of individuals is so troublesome as to cause great annoyance and apprehension in their homes while the mental warp is not of such a nature as to justify removal to an institution. One may form some idea of the possible and quali- fying entrants to already swollen lunacy registers by a slight reflection in regard to the psycho-pathological products to be met with in society. It is coming to this that every individual who lives out of harmony with his surroundings and the conditions of life settled and accepted by the vast majority of society is in danger of, or in the happy prospect of, just as it may be viewed, certification. It will now be apparent, having regard to the universal relativity of things, why anything like an exact definition of lunacy even for legal purposes is impossible.! The relativity of right and wrong, the fact that what may be wrong under certain circum- stances may be right under others, the question of the fas et nefas of the ages, and the inability to establish any universal standard of right and wrong, which have baffled the wisest, are pre- sumed to have been solved by paranoiacs ^ who 1 " Legal Aspects of Insanity," see Green's Encyc. of Scots Law, vols. vii. and viii. '■^ Paranoiacs were formerly termed monomaniacs.LUNACY 5 commit crime and yet know right from wrong even to the particular crime charged, and may possess the power to choose between right and wrong as usually understood. It has been the case that until very recently the pathology of lunacy has been a terra incognita. But there is another pathology also of recent birth, that which may fitly be spoken of as social pathology, which seeks to investigate all classes of in- dividuals who from mental, moral, or physical defects are dependent upon or injurious to society. And as there can be no specific, just as there can be no acts of the legislature to meet all that confronts society, not even the Utopian one of regulating marriages—a remedy which, while not accomplishing any good, would lead to greater social evils—there remains for society the general remedy of implanting and developing in individuals, the earlier the better, a knowledge of the laws pertaining to health and the dire results of contravening these, as well as such mental, moral, and physical habits as will serve to lessen and, if not too much to hope for in man's unregenerate state, to prevent delinquency, dependency, and lunacy. Statistics.—The statistics submitted refer to the lunacy prevalent among 50,000,000 of the Anglo-Saxon race. In regard to Great Britain it will be observed that while the census enumei-ation of 1891 revealed the existence of 134,033 lunatics, the official returns of the lunacy departments for the same year spoke of 115,641, or 18,392 less. In 1899 the depart- ments were aware of 140,789, showing that in eight years not only has this difference been wiped out, but 6756 more have found their way to the official registers. These figures make it abundantly clear that lunacy is, at all events, not diminishing as with the advances in psy- chiatry one might expect. The public accept with thankfulness any announcement to the effect that the growth of lunacy just keeps pace with the growth of population, and with some- thing akin to alarm when it is made aware that the growth exceeds that of population. Con- sidering how much of modern insanity of the vesanique type is due to auto-infection and auto- intoxication, the attitude of resting content if lunacy and population advance pari jmssu does not betoken hopeful views of what is possible in the matter of prevention. Glancing at the statistics for the years 1889 and 1899, it would appear that lunacy in the British Isles has in- creased by 15-2 per cent in ten years or r5 per cent per annum after full allowance is made for the increment justified by the growth of popula- tion. But the remarkable feature about this increase is the part Ireland takes in it, being credited with no less than 36 per cent. Apart from the economic question, of itself the most significant factor in any estimate of a nation's lunacy, which will always bulk more largely in Ireland's productivity calculations than those of England and Scotland, the increase is of that phenomenal kind witnessed and quite understood in England and Scotland, in the sixties and seventies, and is very probably due to similar causes, viz., better registration, the provision of improved and extended asylum accommodation, and the inducements of the grant-in-aid which year by year removes hundreds of imbeciles and chronic and harmless dements from the ordinary pauper list to the more comfortable one of lunacy. It should be explained that in Great Britain the 18,392 who figure in the census returns of 1891, and not in the official returns for the year, have been for some time looked upon as a reserve from which a very large number of fresh or occurring cases of insanity are transferred every year to the official registers, with the result that the balance between the census and the official returns is lessening so perceptibly each decennium that before very long the difference will simply represent the existence of lunatics in the 10 per cent of the population not only able but willing to maintain their insane en famille; and there are good grounds for thinking that the number of such for social reasons, if for no other, are getting fewer. When such cases are sent to asylums or to private dwellings in which they are kept for profit, they come on the official register. This lessening reserve will always contain insane of the kind who do not require asylum treatment, and who belong to families whose means preclude them from claiming public relief while residing at home. For the year perhaps a most valuable statistical return for the country as a whole is the census one, for it may be assumed, except in large burghs and cities, that the enumerators have knowledge of imbeciles and lunatics possessed by no other. The census return for England in 1891 shows an advance of 15'2 per cent over 1881 ; the returns of the Commis- sioners in Lunacy between the same years, of 18-7—the increment of population being 11'6 per cent. The plus difference of '3 per cent between the two census periods is a trivial one, and shows that there has been no appreciable increase between the two periods, and perhaps may be explained by more accurate methods of enumeration in the latter census. In Scotland there has been no increase except that jus- tified by population, and in the present year (1900) the reserve of 1891, viz., 2867, has disappeared, and it is safe to hazard the opinion that the census return about to be taken will reveal a much smaller difference between itself and the official annual return of 1901 than the census of 1891 did with the official return of that year. With regard to the Colonies, and for that matter the United States, in which the insane, except private patients, are under the direct care of the State, what strikes one is not only the high ratios reported, but augmentations6 LUNACY quite equal to those at home. There is not in these countries, as might be guessed, the same hesitancy to accept State relief for lunacy, seeing the stigma of pauperism does not attach. There must always lurk in the minds of many who do not belong to the pauper class, and they are the great majority of the whole, a dislike to the source of relief and to the name. But it is consistent with observation and experience that this objection is gradually disappearing, and people have come to look upon relief more in the nature of a right. In New South Wales and New Zealand lunacy in ten years has expanded in excess of popula- tion by 16-6 and 18 per cent; in six years Victoria by 12'6, and Queensland by 9 percent. The increase in Canada between 1881 and 1891 sion. Ranking next is the emigration and migration from rural to urban areas and to other countries of the pick of the population constantly going on in response to the trend of modern life. The weaklings, physical and mental, remain behind. And in the third place, in the view of the writer is that of infant mortality and mortality up to five years, which is twice and thrice higher in urban and town areas than in village and rural ones. This is significant when such deaths account for from 30 to 40 per cent of the entire death-rate. By the operation of this agency many are removed who would as they grew up have passed into the ranks of lunacy. In the one case the weakly products of the birth-rate die from neglect, bad care, injudicious dieting, and Population. Countries. Census of Lunacy, 1891. Official Return, 1891. Difference between Census and Official. Official Returns for Ratio per 1000 Percentage Increase between Ratios. 1889. 1899. 1889. 1899. 31,742,600 4,281,840 4,535,560 England . . Scotland . . Ireland . . . 97,383 15,462 21,188 86,795 12,595 16,251 10,588 2,867 4,937 84,340 11,954 15,685 105,083 15,399 20,304 2-96 2- 95 3- 37 3-31 3- 52 4- 60 11-8 19-3 36-5 40,560,000 \ United ) j Kingdom ) 134,033 115,641 18,392 111,979 140,786 3-01 3-47 15-2 5,200,000 Canada. . 9,8891 13,3552 2-76 2 35-13 1,175,460 1,356,650 512,600 369,220 178,790 168,470 756,500 Victoria N. S. Wales . Queensland S. Australia . Tasmania . W. Australia . New Zealand . 2,973 1,761 4,384 4,198 1,668 966 420 336^^ 2,557 3-44 4 2-65 2-98^ 2-53'' 2-83 3-73 3-09 3-25 2-62 2-50 2- 00 3- 34 12-6 16-6 9-0 18-0 4,517,690 Australasia 14,529 1 Figures for 1881. 2 figures for 1891. ^ Increase between 1881 and 1891. For 1893. ^ Figures incomplete. was no less than 35 per cent. Males were to females in the proportion of 100 : 86. The ratio per 1000 was 2-76 for 1891 ; but it has to be borne in mind that the statistics only refer to those treated in asylums, and that is mainly true of the statistics applicable to the Australasian colonies. Geographical Distribution.—Lunacy, at all events that produced by 90 per cent of the population, is like pauperism, inebriety, crime, disease, and mortality, very unequally distri- buted in the three kingdoms. There are good grounds for believing that this inequality is governed by two or three considerations, chief of which and exceeding all others is the economic one, implying a relative capacity to maintain in whole or in part the insane member of a family, and a resultant readiness to accept or demand public relief. This is always in evidence in poor areas, and in all areas in times of depres- exanthematous disease; while in the other they survive for opposite reasons, and swell the lunacy totals of rural, village, and insular areas. This is all the more remarkable seeing there is, looking to the main physical and moral causes working in society to bring about mental disturbance, every reason for expecting a larger production in centres. An analysis of the statistics of " chargeable" lunacy in England and Wales shows that with the exception of London county, with 21,338 insane, giving the exceptional ratio of 50 per 10,000, the pro- portion is lowest in counties with centres of industry, and highest in rural and more sparsely populated areas. Taking the mean of England on the basis of the 1891 census as 33 per 10,000, important counties such as Durham and Derby (20), York and Cumberland (24), Stafford and Northumberland (27), Chester, Glamorgan, and Lancashire (29), Northampton and Middle-LUNACY 7 [— sex (30) fall considerably below it. On the other hand, Dorset, Devon, and Hants (36), Norfolk (37), Oxford (38), Wilts (40), Glouce- ster (41), Hereford (50), and Radnor (55) greatly exceed it. Lincoln, Essex, Sussex, Berks, Bedford, Bucks, Hertford, Monmouth, Salop, Notts, and Worcester approach it. In the twelve Welsh counties the mean is 30 per 10,000. In Scotland the same inequalities and even greater extremes are met with, and these can only be satisfactorily explained by considera- tions such as those referred to operating in a more marked degree. Thus, while the mean for Scotland is 32 per 10,000, six counties in the Highland and insular area have a ratio ranging from 43 to 59 per 10,000, the latter figure touched by the county of Argyllshire, being nearly double the mean of Scotland. Nay more, within the confines of this county and of the neighbouring counties of Ross and Inverness there are large areas with ratios of 61 and 77. Seven counties exceed the mean; six approxi- mate it, inclusive of the important ones of Lanark, Edinburgh, Stirling, Ayr, Fife, and Aberdeen—all, with the exception of the latter, being located in the great industrial belt of Scotland. Ten fall below the mean, the lowest being 22 per 10,000. In Ireland, owing to the imperfect and in- complete system of registration, one has to fall back upon the returns of last census to ascertain how the insane are distributed over the country. These may be considered reliable because they take cognisance of the thousands in official returns spoken of as " wandering at large "—a term which points to the workhouse or the home as the resting-place of such. So far as the four provinces are concerned, the following ratios apply—Ulster, 37 ; Connaught, 38 ; Leinster, 49 ; and Munster, 50. The mean for Ireland of all lunatics "under care " is 44 per 10,000, and it is said by the inspecting authority if the " wandering at large " were in- cluded, the ratio would be 55. No one for a moment believes that insanity in Ireland is nearly double that of England or Scotland. The economic factor explains much, and the low position of Ulster emphasises this fact. The highest ratios are to be found in the counties of Meath, Carlow, Kilkenny, Waterford, and Clare ; and the lowest in Down, Antrim, Dublin, and Louth. Age, Sex, and Civil Condition. — From an analysis of the quinquennial (1894-98) admis- sion rate of 18,437 (m., 8967; f., 9470) to asylums, etc., males were to females as 100 : 105—^a sex ratio similar to that which obtains in the population as a whole. In the first two age periods of the whole population the sex ratios are equal; in the other six the female one preponderates by as much as 6 to 26 per 100, being in the last two 100 : 115 and 100 : 126. Among the insane for the quinquennial selected the sex ratios approximate at the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, and 7th; but in the other three, viz., the 4th, 6th, and 8th, females exceed males by numbers ranging from 9 to 12 per 100, being in the last 100 : 110, much less than that for the general population one of 100 : 126. It is evident that, in spite of a considerable excess of females at six age periods, including the three chief lunacy producing ones, viz., the 4th, 5th, and 6th, the somewhat higher ratio of females in the general population is not only not main- tained, but is reversed to such an extent as to betoken a much greater liability to mental break- down among the male sex. Among the insane of both sexes at the three chief insane produc- ing periods there has been a rise of 7*5 per cent compared with the previous quinquennial. In the two last periods the rise amounts to no less than 13"7 per cent and 17 per cent respectively. This is noteworthy. The increase at the 5th, 6th, 7 th, and 8th age periods greatly exceeds anything justified by the growth of population. It will be of interest to ascertain in which sex, at what age periods, and in what civil condition of life, those who make up the increase are chiefly to be found. But so far as the analysis submitted has gone, a large part of the inci-ease refers to senile subjects, and is such as clearly to indicate not only the sending to asylums and to private care of larger number of senile and incurable cases than formerly, and the con- sequent accumulation of such in institutions, etc., but also to suggest the earlier appearance of senility among the people than formerly. This latter proposition is difficult of proof, and as there are no available data to help in the matter, it is merely put forward as a suggestion to be considered with caution. In Scotland, from a comparison of the ages of the insane in and out of institutions in 1887 and 1897, there has been a great increase of both sexes, accentuated at certain ages. Under twenty the increase is 44 per cent, and above sixty-five, 30 per cent—males accounting for a rise of 20 per cent and females 36 per cent. The sex ratio for all insane in 1897 was 100 : 115, but above sixty-five it stood at 100 : 200. Between fifty and sixty-five years the increase of males has been no less than 39 per cent, of females 28 per cent, the sex ratio at these ages being in 1897, 100 : 140. Between thirty-five and fifty years males increased by 31 per cent, females 25 per cent, while the sex ratio in 1897 stood at 100 : 100; and between twenty and thirty-five years males 14'8 per cent, and females 22 per cent, while the sex ratio stood at 100 : 87. The features revealed by this analysis are, first, the vastly larger female ratio above fifty years, the equality from thirty-five to fifty years, and the smaller female ratio between thirty and thirty-five yeai's; and second, the great increase of 28 per cent of bothLUNACY 8 sexes of all ages between the two periods dealt with, of 36 per cent of females above sixty-five, and of 39 per cent of males between fifty and sixty-five years. Of interest in connection with age and sex is the social condition as to celibacy, marriage, etc., and the varying liability of the single, married, and widowed at different age periods. Among the total insane for England represented by the quinquennial average for 1894-98 the sex ratio for the single, married, and widowed was respectively 100 : 95, 100 :100, and 100 : 187. The percentage of "single" insane was 42 ; of "married," 44 ; of " widowed," 12-7. At every age period the "single" ratio per 10,000 of population greatly exceeded the " married " or " widowed," and was greater than the other two combined; at the 5th epoch, approximated the other two combined ; at the 6th and 7th epochs, and at the last or 8th, although much greater than either, was less than the two combined. Among the single, represented by a total of 7820 between the ages of twenty-five and forty-four, males pre- ponderated considerably; from forty-five to fifty-four, the sexes approximated; and from fifty-five onwards males again bulked more largely. Among the married insane, between the ages of twenty-five and thirty-four women greatly exceeded men—the ratio being 100:158; from thirty-five to fifty-four the sexes approxi- mated ; and from fifty-five onwards males vastly preponderated—the ratios being for the two periods 100 : 74 and 100 : 52. Among the widowed, between twenty-five and thirty-four, the ratio at this age is practically the same for both sexes; from thirty-five onwards males greatly exceed females by from 3 to 4 per 10,000. Season.—The relation of lunacy to tempera- ture, like that of the seasonal incidence of suicides, illegitimacy, and the commission of sexual crimes, conveys to the psychologist something more than a mere coincidence. The connection will be seen by reference to the monthly fluctuations in the admission rate to asylums of all lunatics other than congenital cases, and of the two chief types of mental disorder, viz., mania and melancholia. Analysing the statistics of a triad average of 17,613 admissions, the monthly mean for May, June, and July exceeds the yearly mean by 10 per cent, and the difference between May the highest and February the lowest is as much as 29 per cent. Six months are below the mean. And the same holds good of admissions for mania and melancholia, being influenced by tempera- ture, heat having apparently the effect of ex- citing, irritating, and unsettling the nervous system. It may be urged that the low ad- mission rate for the cold months may in a measure be due to delay in steps being taken for certification in the less urgent cases. The commission of crimes suggestive of sexual and mental perversion is highest in warm weather and lowest in cold. There are indications like- wise that a connection between illegitimacy, and much of it is identified with mental en- feeblement or an abnormal mental state, and season has been established, the months with the highest rate of illegitimate births, viz., those of January, February, March, and April, implying an increase of such conceptions in April, May, June, and July. Von Oettingen, in his work Moralstatistik, says there was no such increase of legitimate births in the months referred to. The writer in his experience has come across families in which a vein of in- veterate illegitimacy ran through them, the females in the different generations being decidedly weak-minded rather than loose or immoral. Occupation.—Taking the fifty different occu- pations tabulated in the English returns for the quinquenniad 1894-98 contributing their quota to lunacy, at the top of the list are "hucksters, costers, hawkers, etc.," with a ratio of 28 per 10,000 of their class, and next to them, curiously enough, civil servants and medical men, with a ratio of 17 per 10,000. At the other end of the scale, in agreement with popular belief, are to be found farmers, shepherds, gamekeepers, with a ratio of 4*9; miners and persons engaged in heavier kinds of manual labour, 5*1 ; mill and factory workers of both sexes, 4"6 ; laundry-keepers and washer- women, 2"9. Dividing the fifty occupations, guided by ratios per 10,000, into six, in the first, with a ratio ranging from 15'6 to 28, in addition to those already mentioned, are com- mercial travellers ; in the second, with a ratio range of 12 to 14, are sweeps, seamen, chemists, lawyers, and musicians (the living population of each is small); in the third, ratio range being 10 to 11*3, are drapers, innkeepers, hotel servants, hairdressers, clergymen, domestic servants, soldiers, tailors, subordinate bank and insurance employees, accountants, and com- mercial clerks ; in the fourth, with a ratio of 8 to 9"7, actors, carpenters, shoemakers, milliners, printers, bookbinders, dissenting clergymen, canal- and barge-men, police, etc.; in the fifth ratio, of 6 to 7'9, teachers, butchers, trades- people as a whole of both sexes, handicraftsmen generally, carmen, carters, etc. ; in the sixth ratio, 2-9 to 5 per 10,000 mill and factory workers, miners, farmers, shepherds, railway, telegraph, and telephone servants, etc. Com- paring the two quinquenniads, there have been increases in the latter in excess of the population among the following occupations: civil servants, 27 per cent; hucksters, etc., 25 per cent; commercial travellers, 22 per cent; inkeepers of both sexes, 15 and 21 per cent; hotel servants of both sexes, 28 and 15 per cent; printers and bookbinders, 15 and 139 LUNACY per cent; shoemakers, 12 per cent; medical men, carmen, and carters, 10 per cent; butchers and tradespeople generally, 14 per cent; railway, telegraph, police, and domestic servants, 9 per cent. On the other hand, there has been a diminution in liability to insanity among the following occupations, amounting to, in the case of laundry-keepers and washerwomen, 15 per cent; bank and insurance subordinates, farmers, etc., 8 per cent. Among carpenters, fishermen, merchants, handicraftsmen, the rise does not exceed that warranted by population. In most of the other occupations, including agricultu- ral labourers, shepherds, gamekeepers, teachers, tailors, etc., the percentage has remained station- ary and not reached what might have been expected. A table such as this, compiled with care, could not fail to be of service in showing approximately in what callings insanity was increasing. Forms of Mental Disorder.—These are referred to in order to show the numbers sulfering from each of the three or four principal types of mental disease, how the sexes are relatively affected, and in which types there is a falling off or an increase. Such an analysis of statistics referable to 81,670 cases may be of some help in an attempt to explain the growth of lunacy. In England, among the pauper insane, mania accounts for 47 "8 per cent, the sex ratio being 100 : 102 ; melancholia, 28'5 per cent, the sex ratio being 100 :148 ; and general paralysis of the insane, 7 '6 per cent. Both sexes seem equally liable to mania, females more to melancholia. The sex ratio for all is 100 : 105. Comparing the quinquenniad 1894-98 with its immediate pre- decessor, mania has decreased by 1 '8 per cent; general paralysis by 1 per cent; while melan- cholia has increased by 2'2, and senile dementia by "5 per cent. Considering the large number of senile dements, this increase is of some moment. General paralysis among males between thirty- five and forty-four years of age reaches 24*7 per cent of all admissions between these ages, and 18-9 per cent between forty-five and fifty-four years of age. On the other hand, of the ad- mission for general paralysis alone, 25 per cent was between forty-five and fifty-four years, 45 per cent between thirty-five and forty-four years of age (the most liable period), and 21 per cent between twenty-five and thirty-four years. In Scotland, from an analysis of 9000 ad- missions to large asylums, mania falls to be credited with 43 per cent, and melancholia with 30 per cent. The sex ratio for all was 100 : 100, but for mania 100 : 108, melancholia 100 : 124, and dementia 100 : 100. There were great differences in evidence both in the percentages of the forms of mental disorder and the sex ratio of the admissions to the different asylums, mania and melancholia being expressed in one asylum by 58 and 37 per cent respectively, in another 33 and 41 per cent : sex ratios for mania in one asylum 100 : 70, in another 100 : 150 ; and for melancholia in one 100 : 218, in another 100 : 100. Moral and Physical Causes.—In the English returns there appears a table assigning the causes of lunacy in the case of 80,000 admitted to asylums during 1894-98. In the construction of such a return considerable latitude has to be allowed as to accuracy. Among private patients the percentages allocated to the principal causes were—(1) intemperance (m. 20"8, f. 9"2) ; (2) hereditary influence (m. 19-9, f. 27-1) ; (3) domestic trouble and adverse circumstances (m. 12'8, f. I4'7); (4) mental anxiety and worry (m. 14'5, f. Il'I) ; (5) sexual excess and venereal diseases (m. 11 "7, f. 1'7) ; (6) other bodily dis- eases (m. 9-1, f. 11-2); (7) old age (m. 3-9, f. 4"5) ; and (8) parturition, puerperal, menopause, etc., 16"3. Among pauper patients the percent- ages for males and females respectively may be expressed as follows: intemperance, 224 and 9'4 ; hereditary influence, 20 and 25'3 ; other bodily diseases, 14*2 and 12'7 ; domestic troubles and adverse circumstances, 10'8 and 12-6 ; old age, 6'7 and 8"1 ; sexual excess and venereal diseases, 4*7 and 1"2 ; and parturition, etc., 12"9. Among private patients hereditary influence, intemperance, love affairs including seduction, and religious excitement, are much more dis- astrous to females than males, while the reverse is the case as to sex in the matter of intemper- ance, sexual excess, and venereal disease. Com- paring the effect of these causes upon the two classes, it would appear that domestic trouble, mental anxiety, love affairs, sexual excess and venereal disease weigh much more heavily on the private class, while the reverse holds good as to the influence of old age, bodily disorders, and privation, which leave their mark on the pauper class. Love affairs, including seduction, tell more disastrously on the well-to-do class. Intemperance and hereditary influence is equally injurious in both classes. Again, comparing this quinquenniad with its immediate prede- cessor, there is among the private class an appreciable increase in the percentage of those whose insanity is attributed to domestic trouble, mental anxiety, intemperance, sexual excess and venereal disease, old age, and bodily disorders. Among the lunatic poor, intemperance, old age, sexual and venereal disease exhibit an upward tendency ; while domestic trouble and adverse circumstances show a slight decrease, for which a possible and partial explanation may be found in the better distribution of wealth and, as a result, better conditions of living. A careful consideration of the main causes producing insanity is of value when the question of the growth of lunacy in the country as a whole or in a large area is being investigated. Is Lunacy Increasing?—The answering of this question involves the putting of several others, one of which is—If there be an increase,LUNACY 10 is it in excess of that warranted by the growth of population 1 Another which suggests itself is —Does this increase betoken a greater liability to insanity in the community now than formerly, or can it be explained on other grounds, such as certification in recent years overtaking those excluded in former years when ideas and con- ceptions, not only of the medical practitioner, but of the public, as to what constituted lunacy were more restricted? If that be the explana- tion, as well as that other urged, viz., a greater readiness in all classes of society to hand over to the care of others the mentally broken-down in their immediate circle, and thereby to place them on official registers, it would mean not only a wider portal, but a declinature on the part of the affluent and well-to-do, in obedience to conditions in not a few instances readily under- stood and appreciated, to care for the insane in family, and on the part of the vast majority not in the category referred to, to seek and accept public relief in whole or in part. How far this is a possible and probable explanation remains to be seen. A number of other questions, sub- sidiary in their nature, arise in connection with the main one stated. If there be an increase, in which sex, in what occupations, at what age periods, and in what form or forms of mental disorders does it manifest itself? So far, the answers have been given vmder these headings. But to answer these questions more fully neces- sitates a consideration of economic causes and others, such as adverse circumstances, worry and stress, intemperance, syphilis, influenza, bodily disease, old age, and the toxines of metabolism and diseases which chiefly influence its production. Investigators who have looked into the matter with care fully realise how the problem is beset with difficulties. Seven years ago the public alarm at the increase revealed year after year was such that special reports prepared by the lunacy executives of the three countries were prepared and submitted to Parliament, all in agreement that there was no cause for uneasi- ness ; and that while there was no greater liability to insanity in the community, there was a statistical increase in excess of what the population justified, which could be explained by the process of accumulation as opposed to any real increase in the admissions to the registers of fresh and occurring cases of insanity, by economic conditions, by the effect of grants- in-aid, and by asylum attractions. Such reports furnished by officials in the best position to know, in possession of the fullest knowledge available, and representing the continuity of lunacy administration went far, and justly so, to reassure the public mind. But the increases in excess of population went on, and in spite of the official imprimatur in annual reports to the Lord Chancellors and to the Secretary for Scotland, to the effect that there was no real increase of insanity, there were controversialists of eminence who disputed this and put forward all kinds of statistics, theories, general impressions, and speculations in support of their contention, notably that suicides and nervous diseases were likewise increasing. If the latter contention could be established, these observers would hold a position of vantage. With regard to the alleged increase in nervous diseases there are no figures to prove this.^ But there is a presumption in favour of this view, and that it is caused by increasing com- petition, and a greater struggle not only for existence, but by the ambitions for the acquisi- tion of wealth and what it brings. There is reason for thinking, however, that many of the functional insanities, such as hypochoudria, hysteria, neurasthenia, mild melancholia, in predisposed persons are determined by toxic agents from without and from within, the toxines of various infective and non-infective diseases, such as malaria, influenza, syphilis, rheumatism, and the toxines created by disorders of metabolism, toxines absorbed from the gastro- intestinal canal (auto-intoxication and auto-infec- tion), which formerly were considered nervous diseases and nothing more, now rank as cases of lunacy. But if deaths from all nervous diseases in Scotland in the last two decenniads be a test of any value, the contenders that insanity is going up by leaps and bounds will not find much com- fort. Taking the average deaths in Scotland for all nervous diseases for the past two decenniads the increase between the first and second for all Scotland, mostly among females, was 6'1 per cent; for the principal towns, 5"3 per cent; for the large towns with 11 per cent of the popula- tion, 19 per cent; and for the insular rural districts, with 3"1 per cent of the population, and 1 '7 per cent of all deaths from diseases of the nervous system, 20 per cent. In the small towns and mainland rural districts there has been no increase whatever in the deaths. As- suming the population increment to be 10 per cent, there is nothing in those figures to support the views of the alarmist—rather the reverse. As to suicides, it is difficult to write with any degree of satisfaction in regard to those in Scot- land, where there are no public inquests as in England, the figures being vitiated by the fact that many genuine cases of suicide in the populous centres from drowning, poisoning, and even violence are put down to accidents. A fairly reliable record of lunacy is that given in the census returns, and those of the present year are awaited with considerable interest. But in dependence upon the returns for 1881 and * The insanities of alcohol and of general paralysis of the insane are increasing both in England and Scotland. The consumption of nervine specifics and hypnotics has enormously increased in recent years, and the present large number of "homes for exhausted nerves" is ominous.11 LUNACY 1891, it can be said that in England and Scot- land there was no increase to speak of beyond that justified by population. In Ireland, on the other hand, there was in a declining population a rise of 15 per cent, which under normal con- ditions would reach 26 per cent. The fact that by the census return of 1891 Ireland had a ratio per 10,000 of 45, against one for England of 33, and Scotland of 35, would indicate that insanity is much more prevalent in Ireland than in the other two countries, making every allow- ance that in Ireland, with few centres of popula- tion, the enumerators were in a better position to know persons of imsound mind other than registered cases. These figures do not, except in the case of Ireland, afford any assistance to the believers in the nation being undermined by insanity and imbecility. The figures for the three countries at once suggest the relative economic conditions prevailing. It will be found that in England in ten years there has been an increase of lunatics of all classes of 22'8 per cent—that is to say, assuming the popula- tion increment to be 11 per cent, there is an increase between 1891 and 1900 of 11'8 per cent, or an excess of 1*1 per cent per annum. Between these years among private patients the increase has been 7"4 per cent; among pauper patients the increase has been 24'5. Of admis- sions of all kinds, not including transfers and readmissions, the increase between 1890 and 1899 has been 18-7 per cent, a balance in excess of that warranted by population of 7'7 per cent or "77 per annum. It is this '77 per cent in- crease which has got to be accepted or explained in some way. The proportion (per cent) of recoveries to admissions has fallen in the last three quinquenniads from 40-1, 39-2, to 38-7, and deaths (per cent) to daily average resident from 9-59, 9-86, to 9-50. The deaths in Scot- land (per cent) fell from 7-1, 7-8, to 7-5, and recoveries 13, 13-4, to 12-9. Taking for the past two decenniads the average number of all classes registered for the first time, the increase is one of 24 per cent, or making allowance for the population increment, 1"4 per cent per annum, private patients being credited with '9 per cent, and pauper with To per cent per annum. From the last report of the General Board of Lunacy for Scotland it would appear that be- tween the last two quinquenniads private and pauper patients in residence in institutions and in private dwellings have increased. All parts of the country do not contribute alike to the increase of pauper lunacy—the Highland, in- sular, and eastern areas contributing in pro- portion to population more than double the central and southern. Not quite the same results are reached when the admission rate to institutions is examined. That rate in the case of private patients shows no increase beyond that justified by population, and from that it is deduced that the increased proportion in resi- dence is due to a process of accumulation simi- lar to what has taken place in the case of pauper patients. And there can be little doubt that by the better distribution of wealth the class from which private patients are drawn is an increasing one and cannot be less than 10 per cent of the population. This is so far satis- factory and assuring as regards private patients. With regard to the admissions to institutions of pauper patients there has been an increase per 100,000 of population of 9-5 per cent, an in- crease implying that on an average in every year of the later quinquenniad 168 more patients were placed in institutions than in the earlier. The absence of an increased admission rate of private patients to asylums in Scotland during the past twenty years is also the experience of England. I)uring the past ten years the average annual number of cases 7iever previously registered was 2382, the average annual number on the Register 13,483 ; the former figure exceeding that warranted by growth of population by 44 annually, the latter by 215. The former figure suggests the ease with which so small a number can be accounted for annually under the newer conceptions of lunacy, the latter figure at once suggests accumulation. A full and fair consideration of the data avail- able warrants the conclusion that the liability to insanity is not greater in the community now than formerly, and justifies the belief that the statistical increases in England and Scotland in excess of population may be satisfactorily ex- plained on the following four grounds: Ji7'st, such an elasticity in certification in response to the newer conceptions of what constitutes un- soundness of mind as to admit to the official registers cases of slight mental warp, of de- generacy, and of functional insanity; second, the introduction of larger numbers of cases of senility to institutional and private-dwelling care ; third, an increasing readiness on the part of the affiuent and well-to-do, influenced by social considerations, to hand over their insane to the care of others, and thereby to the official list; and fourth, less hesitancy on the part of the 90 per cent of the community who claim not to be and who are not really in a position, no matter what the degree of mental obliquity may be, to maintain their insane without public relief in some shape, to demand or accept it, and thereby not only to divide moral and legal responsibilities with the authorities, but to augment the roll of lunacy. Lunacy Laws—Functions of Medical Practitioners Duties of Medical Men.—To say that the duties of the general practitioner in relation to mental disease are of a highly i-esponsible nature is to utter a truism. Perhaps of all who are12 LUNACY called upon to do with the insane, or to take part in the proceedings which lead to depriva- tion of liberty, or the control of one's affairs, or both, the role of the medical man is the most important. Without the one or two medical certificates, as the nature of the case requires, the legal machinery to interfere either with liberty or with the management of affairs can- not be set in motion except by the criminal authorities for crime or minatory conduct, and under urgency or extra-judicial orders, which are only available for a few days, and must lapse unless a judicial order is obtained. Re- cognising this responsibility, the medical schools in recent years have made provision for a train- ing in mental disease, which fits the practitioner better for such work. Not less important is it that he should be in possession of a knowledge of the statutes in so far as they concern himself and the individual considered insane. There is scarcely a medical man who is not called upon every year to examine and certify persons insane or alleged to be so. Perhaps 60,000 such cer- tificates are called for annually, and if to these be added mental reports required in civil and criminal cases, the total will not fall short of 200,000. On an average each medical prac- titioner signs two or three certificates a year— some, of course, more; and, moreover, there is a large proportion of the medical profession who have entrusted to them the care of the un- certified as well as certified insane of every class —private, Chancery, curatory, and pauper— living in family or in sanctioned private dwell- ings. Provided, in the matter of certification, the medical man does his part—always a dis- interested one — in all good faith, and with reasonable care, no action at law with the least prospect of success will be against him. The exercise of reasonable care will be fully appre- ciated when it is understood that the lunatic, except in criminal and quasi - criminal cases, and in Chancery or curatory cases—and these are few, perhaps not 1 per cent of all lunacy —is neither personally present in court nor represented by an agent. It is not a matter of surprise that among the thousands certified every year there are one or two of the litigious type in whose power it is to put medical men to worry, annoyance, and expense when there is no possible chance of success. Further, it is within the rights of every lunatic, recovered or otherwise, to demand from the central lunacy authority copies of the documents upon which legal deprivation of liberty and of the manage- ment of affairs followed. In how large a measure the question of responsibility in crimi- nal cases, of testamentary capacity in civil cases, of the liberty of the individual in relation to others and to his property, of the treatment to be followed and in what place, in the variety of cases submitted to his judgment and com- mitted to his care outwith institutions, rests with him, is well understood, and need not, if space allowed, be dilated upon. No less important is that duty, solely his, of determin- ing whether the individual has been restored to sanity, and thereby to the rights of citizenship. In regard to the legal formalities and the procedure incidental to lunacy, great diversity of practice prevails in England, Scotland, and Ireland. That being so, the better course to follow will be to point out, first, his duties in relation to the certification of the insane of all classes, no matter in which country residing; and, second, his duties as medical attendant of those who are not residing in institutions. These are the same in the three countries. Whether the nature of the case requires one or two certificates, with a setting out of the facts, observed by himself and conmiunicated by others, or bears on the face of them simply the opinion or conclusion arrived at, or some- thing in the nature of a report on soul and conscience of unsoundness of mind or in- capacity to manage one's affairs without pre- sentation of the data which lead to this opinion, equal care should be observed in taking, and recording at the time if that course be advisable, dependent upon the kind of case, or as soon as possible thereafter, full notes to be used in the construction of the certificate or report, or for reference afterwards. When a medical man is requested to examine a supposed lunatic by a court of justice, by a lunacy authority, by relations, by a parish official, by the police or public prosecutor, or by a solicitor in civil or criminal cases, he should observe the same methods. Tact, patience, and delicate handling are necessary to get at the mental state of some; others again, in fact the great majority, will reveal their lunacy without much waiting, and will not even de- mand to know, as the paranoiac invariably does, who is his examiner. Should the lunatic request to know who his visitor is, especially when removal to an asylum is contemplated, there should be no hesitation in satisfying him. The object of the interview with the patient and with those around him is to find out the existence of delusions, hallucinations, illusions, suicidal or homicidal tendencies, and other evidences of the insane state. His de- meanour, expression, speech, and conduct during the interview should be observed, as well as the temperature, when advisable; the pulse, the state of the pupils, tongue and hands, especially for tremors, etc. The physical con- dition should also be ascertained. He may be induced to write, or allowed if he suggests it. Feeling quite satisfied as to the propriety of certification, there at once arises the question of destination. Is it to be his own home, tlie home of another—it may be a stranger—or the institution? The latter is unquestionably the right and safe place for the homicidal andLUNACY 13 refractory, and for the suicidal except in the very few cases where the means of the patient or family admit of adequate medical super- vision, and of nursing by day and night. No patients, private or pauper, should be sent to an asylum who can be equally, if not better, cared for in a private dwelling in which the minimum of restriction is placed upon his liberty. Too great care cannot be bestowed upon the filling up of the certificates, and before doing so the marginal and foot notes should be read. The mere fact that the cer- tificate has been carefully and accurately filled up will indicate to the judicial authority, who seldom or never sees the patient, the necessity to grant a warrant or order for committal. The usual certificate requires the certifier, after having, separately from any other medical man, visited the patient, to state, first, facts indicating insanity observed by himself; and, second, facts indicative of insanity communicated by others before or after he has seen the patient. It is a safe course often to give the ipsissima verba of the lunatic, supplementing them by saying whether they amount to a delusion, hallucination, or illusion. It is of importance to describe correctly the name and designation of the patient, and likewise the names and designations of those who volunteer informa- tion regarding the supposed lunatic, whether relations or not. A word of advice and caution is necessary in regard to certificates bearing upon testamen- tary capacity and sanity. A lunatic may make a valid will; but unless certification of testamentary capacity has been got at the time the will or codicil was signed, the pre- sumption in law is that the will is invalid. In any case wills made under such circum- stances are, as a rule, either contested or compromised. The examination of a would-be testator should, if possible, be conducted alone, or, if that be not possible, in the presence of a disinterested party. Regard should be had to his physical condition, the degree of memory and judgment present, his conversation in regard to his own affairs, to his family and relations, to things in which he is specially interested, as well as to topics of general interest. In apliasics,i hemiplegics, mild cases of senile dementia, as well as other forms of mental enfeeblement, in which there are grounds for believing in the existence of a willing or disposing mind, it is not only advisable to do what has been already suggested, but to test whether the document is his own, and has not been suggested by others, and to put the contrary or a diff"erent proposition, as well as something quite unusual in regard to individuals or institutions or schemes to be benefited under the will. The certificate should be on soul and conscience, and accurate as to time, name, and ^ Aphasia, Sir F. Bateman and W. Elder. designation of testator. The questions and answers, if advisable, should be noted at the time; and, if a second visit be necessary, to repeat these, as well as any others which in the interval may strike the examiner as essential. A person of means may be unable to make a just will if he be in the false belief that he is destitute or nearly so, or that his relatives have turned against him. Delusions do not bar testamentary capacity, unless they have some direct bearing on the property, or on the relations of the testator to relatives and friends, and are of course groundless. What the suffi- cient mental capacity necessary to make a valid will may be can never be definitely expressed; but if a will be in itself fairly reasonable, or consistent with expressed intentions while possessed of a disposing mind, it will be difficult to get a jury to upset it. A certificate of sanity to remove disabilities incurred requires the same care and considera- tion as that of insanity. It means for the insane, other than congenital cases, a second charter of liberty, and all that that implies in regard to himself, his family, his affairs, and to society. Certification, Visitation, etc.—In regard to certification ^ the policy of the statutes seems to be that the certificate accompanying a recep- tion order shall not be signed by persons, first, interested in or connected with the supposed lunatic, and, second, interested in or connected with the institution or private dwelling in which he is to be detained. And thus it is a medical certificate accompanying an urgency order or a petition for a reception order must be signed by a medical practitioner other than the peti- tioner or person signing an urgency order, or than husband or wife, father or father-in-law, mother or mother-in-law, son or son-in-law, daughter or daughter-in-law, sister or sister-in- law, partner or assistant of such petitioner or person. It is also forbidden that either of the persons signing the medical certificate in support of a petition for a reception order shall stand in certain specified relationships to the supposed lunatic, and they must be independent and unconnected with each other, and with the person taking charge of the patient. Chancery Lunatics in England.—In regard to Chancery patients, of whom in 1899 there were 880 in institutions and in private dwellings, two medical affidavits have to be sent to the Lord Chancellor along with the petition. At the inquisition, before a Master in Lunacy, with or without a jury as the patient decides, the mental condition is fully inquired into, ^ Forms are to be had for England and Wales from Messrs. Shaw & Sons, Fetter Lane, London, E.G. ; for Scotland, from Messrs. T. & A. Constable, Edinburgh ; for Ireland, from H.M. Stationery Office, Dublin (Dept. I forms), and the Clerks to Asylum Committees for others.LUNACY 14 and he appoints a committee of the person as well as a committee of the estate—very frequently one committee serving for both purposes; and the committee of the person directs the guardian, who often is a medical man, to receive the patient, and he like any other guardian requires within one clear day from day of the patient's reception to intimate to the Commissioners in Lunacy the admission. Advice and medical attention are to be provided where the patient's means permit; and the committee of the person must make an accurate report every half-year along with the medical attendant as to physical and mental condition ; and over the committee the Chancery Visitors have control. The patient may be present at the inquiry. When the Commissioners in Lunacy report to the Lord Chancellor that neither the property nor income of a patient is duly protected or properly applied, such report is tantamount to an application for an inquisition, which in every case is made to the Judge in Lunacy, and he decides whether the examination shall take place in open court or in private. Private Patients in England. —In regard to such the petition is considered in private, and the two medical certifiers are entitled to be present, but they are bound to keep secret all matters and documents, except when required to divulge the same by lawful authority. The order for the reception of private patients is made by a Justice appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890, a Judge of County Court, or a Stipendiary Magistrate. For a reception order two medical certificates—one, if possible, being that of the usual medical attendant—are re- quired on separate sheets, whether the patient be sent to an institution or to single care. Should neither certificate be signed by the usual medical attendant the reason must be given. Each certifier must have examined the patient seven clear days before presentation of petition. For an urgency order, which is extra- judicial, only one medical certificate is required, no matter whether sent to an asylum or to single care, and the examination must be made not more than two days before reception. In the certificate the facts are set forth ; and in the statement accompanying urgency order which is part of the certificate, it must be certified that the removal was necessary in the interests of the patient and of the public, and that the state of bodily health admitted of removal without risk. An urgency order remains in force for seven days; but if a petition for a reception order is pending then, until it is disposed of. A medical man, like any other guardian, receiving a patient under either order must intimate within one clear day from the patient's reception, and transmit to the Commis- sioners a copy of the order and medical certifi- cate or certificates. Should the medical attendant of a single patient consider the personal interview by a judicial authority to which he is entitled to be prejudiced, he within twenty-four hours after reception certifies accordingly, but the patient must receive notice of his right within twenty- four hours of reception. The exercise of the right must be made within seven days. In regard to a person " not a pauper wander- ing at large and not under proper care and control," on the information of a constable, a Justice of the Peace specially appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890 directs and orders two medical men to examine him separately. Single patients must be visited by the medical attendant at least once in every two weeks, unless fewer visits are permitted by the Com- missioners. In the house with a single patient a register of mechanical restraint and a medical journal must be kept, in the latter of which entries have to be made as to mental and physical condition, diet, bedding, employment, exercise, amusements, visits of friends, and seclusion. These entries must also be made when the medical man is the guardian. The visitation of the patient at intervals is made by a medical attendant who has not signed either of the certificates, and who derives no profit from the charge of patient directly or indirectly through his partner or near relatives (father, son, or brother). When leave of absence from the house in which he resides is requested, either for the benefit of patient's health or on trial, the request sent to the Commissioners or Visitors shall be accompanied by the recommendation of the medical attendant. The medical attendant of single private patients must submit a statement to be trans- mitted to the Commissioners in Lunacy as to mental and physical state after two clear days, and before the expiration of seven from the day of reception, and also a report at the end of a calendar month as to mental and bodily condi- tion; and (in terms of Act 1890, sec. 38, and Act of 1891, sec. 7) a special report, likewise, before the expiry of the reception order at the end of one year, in regard to bodily and mental condition, and a certificate to the effect that he is still of unsound mind, and a proper person to be detained under care and treatment. The guardian of a private patient must send notice of death, discharge, application for transfer— the transfer to be accompanied by a copy of reception order and the two medical certificates, and likewise within two clear days' notice of removal, escape and recapture, or transfer from the private to the pauper class. Every medical man who takes the care of a person of unsound mind must apply to the Lunacy Commissioners for a copy of their Rules in order that he may know their requirements. Pauper Lunatics, etc., in England.—Lunatics -LUNACY 15 who do come within the category of those de- scribed are designated and dealt with as follows —first, lunatics not under proper care and control or cruelly treated or neglected are to be examined separately by two medical men, and the order for reception made by a Justice appointed under the Lunacy Act of 1890 ; and second, pauper lunatics or lunatics wandering at large, the reception order is made by a Justice of the Peace, who calls to his assistance one medical man. Pauper lunatics may be detained in a workhouse on the certificate of the medical officer if patients are suitable and the accommoda- tion adequate ; and for similar reasons patients discharged imrecovered from institutions may be received and detained on the certificate of the medical officer. When a relieving officer applies to a Justice of Peace for an order for the detention of a lunatic in a workhouse two medical certificates are required—one by the medical officer of workhouse, the other by a medical practitioner. A district medical officer or medical officer to a workhouse may intimate to a relieving officer his knowledge that a person residing in the district is a lunatic, and a proper person to be sent to an institution. In such a case the Justice of the Peace directs a medical practitioner to examine. It is required also that medical officers of every workhouse and of every district of a union send to the clerk of the union, quarterly, a list of lunatic paupers within the district of the union not in institu- tions, but residing in workhouses and in private dwellings, re mental and bodily conditions, the accommodation provided, the care, and if mechanical restraint has been resorted to and by what means. Private and Pauper Patients in Scotland.— For the admission of private or pauper patients into an asylum two medical certificates are required, and the warrant of committal is only granted by the Sheriffi When it is proposed to send a paiiper patient to the lunatic wards of a poorhouse, if the patient has already been duly certified by two medical men, one medical certificate—not by medical officer of poorhouse —is required, and the sanction of the General Board. In cases where a second certificate is necessary, it may be signed by the medical officer of the poorhouse. A certificate of emergency granted by a medical man to enable an applicant to place a patient in an asylum is valid only for three days, in the lunatic wards of a poorhouse for seven days. When it is proposed to transfer a private or pauper patient from one asylum to another the sanction of the General Board of Lunacy is necessary, and one medical certificate is re- quired to the effect that the transfer may be safely effected. The General Board of Lunacy sanctions the reception of a private or pauper patient into a private dwelling specially licensed or otherwise. The application in the case of a private patient is accompanied by one medical certificate ; in the case of the pauper, by two; and in both cases it is further certified that the circumstances are suitable and sufficient for proper care and treatment. The General Board likewise sanctions the reception of a pauper child into an institution for the training of imbecile children, two medical certificates being necessary. Private and pauper patients on probation from an asylum for any period up to twelve months may at any time, on sufficient cause being shown, be replaced in an asylum. But on the expiry of probation a medical certificate is called for, to the effect either (1) that the patient is recovered, or (2) that he is still of unsound mind. In the latter case the certificate must further state that asylum treatment is no longer necessary. If an un- recovered private patient is to be kept for profit in a private dwelling the sanction of the Board must be obtained, and he must be visited by a medical man four times a year, or oftener if sickness or accident require it, who will make an entry of each visit in the manner specified in the medical attendant's visitation book. All pauper patients in private dwellings specially licensed or otherwise are visited four times a year by the parish medical officer, or other medical man appointed by the Parish Council, and in the visitation book kept in the house entries require to be made as to care, conduct, bodily and mental health, bedding, clothing, cleanliness, etc. An unrecovered pauper lunatic discharged from an asylum may be placed in a private dwelling provided a statement be given by the principal medical officer of the asylum as to fitness. It should be stated that punishment of any kind, or mechanical restraint in any form, is absolutely forbidden in private dwellings, either for private or pauper patients, and this is ex- pressly laid down in the printed directions of the Board to guardians. Before a license for a private dwelling to hold from two to four private or pauper patients is granted, a certificate by a medical man is re- quired as to the suitability of the house and of guardian. A person suff"ering from a mental malady which is unconfirmed may be placed in a private dwelling for a period not exceeding six months on one medical man's certificate. Whatever benefits may be claimed for the early treatment of insanity, certification and all that it implies, socially and otherwise, should not be resorted to except upon the clearest evidence that such a step is imperative. Curatory Patients in Scotland.—For the appointment of a curator bonis two medical certificates are needed. Curatory patients not kept for profit, and not registered as lunatics, do not require to be visited by a medical man;LUNACY 16 but if they are registered lunatics, all the regu- lations applicable to registered private lunatics apply to them. The medical attendant visits four times a year and makes entries.^ All curatory patients—a list of whom is furnished to the General Board by the accountant of the Court of Session — whether sanctioned or not, are visited once a year by a Visiting Commissioner. If a medical man certifies a private patient, he cannot keep him for profit. Kelatives declining to take steps to get a curator bonis appointed when it is clear that course is necessary, the Board is empowered by statute to intervene in the interests of the individual and his property. In the case of private as well as curatory patients, the decli- nature on the part of relatives to act is due to a hesitancy, which is intelligible, to do any- thing to injure their prospects as beneficiaries in the event of recovery. Patients in Ireland.—Before a patient can be sent to a private licensed asylum two separate medical certificates in general terms are neces- sary. When it is proposed to send a paying patient to a district asylum two medical certifi- cates setting forth the facts are required. In Ireland, Chancery practice is much the same as in England so far as the medical affidavits are concerned. In connection with the admission of the in- sane and destitute a certificate from a registered medical practitioner setting forth the facts is needed. This should be the ordinary method of admission to Irish asylums ; but it is not made use of to anything like the extent it should be, partly on account of the overcrowding of Irish asylums, and from the fact that no public official is held responsible for the correct filling up of the forms required by this mode of procedure. And thus it is that the patients are made quasi-criminals. In such cases the medical officer of the dispensary district certifies in general terms, and failing him, the medical officer of the nearest dispensary district. Lunacy Administration.—In England and Scotland the powers and duties of the Central (the Limacy Commissions) and Local Authorities (District Lunacy Boards, etc.. Boards of Guar- dians and Parish Councils) are admirably set forth in two memoranda, furnished in 1899 to the Royal Commission on Local Taxation by the respective secretaries of the English and Scottish Lunacy Commissions, Mr. H. F. Giffard and Mr. T. W. L. Spence (Minutes of Evidence, vol. iv., apps. xiii. and xiv.). An instructive memorandum, re lunacy administration in Ire- land, is supplied to the same Commission by Mr. Smith of the oifice of Lunatic Asylums, Ireland. The Irish system differs greatly from the English and Scottish, and little or nothing 1 Visiting book is supplied by the Board free of charge. has been effected on the legislative lines recom- mended by the Royal Commission of 1890-91 to bring Ireland into line with the other two sections of the kingdom, except extensive changes for the better efl^ected under the Local Govern- ment (Ireland) Act, 1898, in the administration of district asylums, provision for the accom- modation of chronic and harmless lunatics in disused workhouses; and an additional capita- tion grant of 2s. per week which is given in aid of the maintenance of chronic and harmless lunatics to be accommodated in the auxiliary asylums to be set up. County Councils now manage the district asylums; the Central Board of Control and Correspondence and the Asylum Boards of Governors have been abolished. The duties of the Inspectors of Lunatics in Ireland are much the same as the Commissioners in England and Scotland, but it is doubtful if they possess the same enforcing powers. Sir George Plunkett O'Farrell, one of the Inspectors of Lunacy for Ireland, informs the writer that the establishment of "auxiliary" asylums for lunatics at present in workhouses is the only recommendation of the Royal Commission of 1891 given effect to by legislation. Much re- mains to be done in Ireland, not least some alteration of the mandatory reception order, by which 70 per cent of the total admissions enter asylums as " dangerous" and quasi-criminal lunatics, when in no sense does such a term apply. The Insane in Private Dwellings. — In England 441 private single patients were pro- vided for in this way—as a rule, one such patient being in residence; but the Commis- sioners may permit a person detaining a single patient to detain another, or more than one, and in such case each of the patients will be considered as a "single patient." These are visited once every year by a Commissioner or a medical substitute, who is a medical visitor for the county or burgh in which a single patient resides, and he is armed with full powers. In England, in 1899, 4969 or 5-3 per cent of the insane chargeable to unions were in residence in private dwellings; but there is no central supervision or control over them, and no imperial grant per head, as in Scotland, is given. They are visited quarterly by the medical officer of the union, who reports the result of his visits to the Board of Guardians. The numbers of such appear in the annual reports of the Commissioners in Lunacy. Scattered throughout Wales are to be found no less than 878 lunatic poor, or 18 per cent of its chargeable insane—Cardigan, Caermarthen, and Caernarvon averaging 32 per cent. Males were to females in the ratio of 100 to 158. They are in the same position as to supervision and maintenance as those in the English counties. It is difficult to understand why 18 per cent should in Wales be provided for in this way.LUNACY 17 and only 5"3 per cent in England, except on the ground not only of the greater capacity and willingness of the latter to pay the greatly increased cost of maintenance in asylums and of extension of asylums, but also of an alleged greater difficulty in finding suitable guardians and localities. In Scotland, in private dwellings sanctioned by the General Board of Lunacy to receive one, and in houses licensed to receive private or pauper patients up to four, in 1899 there were 125 private patients and 2703 or 21 per cent of all pauper patients. Males were to females in the pauper class in the ratio of 100 to 150; in the private, 100 to 166. Forty-five of the private patients were in licensed houses, and 80 were placed singly. In addition to these there were visited by the Depaty Com- missioners 192 curatory patients residing in family, but not on the lunacy register of private patients. The total number oSicially visited during the year was 3020. Of the insane chargeable to parishes, 1020 were residing with relatives and 1683 with selected strangers. The weekly cost of those living with strangers may be stated at 7 s., exclusive of clothing and medical attendance in sickness — the annual cost being little more than one-half the asylum cost, when, in addition to maintenance, interest upon buildings is taken into account. Of specially licensed houses for two, there were 352, in which 653 patients were placed; for three, there were 86, in which 246 resided; and for four, 42, in which 159 resided. Licenses for three and four are, for obvious reasons, sparingly granted. In such houses males were to females in the ratio of 100 to 189, a figure which, along with the other referred to, shows that up till now it has been an easier matter for the parish authorities to obtain houses for women than for men. And there is a feeling abroad that on the whole women are better adapted for this method of treatment than men. The writer does not share this view to any great extent, but thinks the difference depends very much on the difficulty of getting suitable guardians and suitable employment for males. As a resting- place for the chronic, harmless, and incurable insane, and those who no longer require in- stitutional treatment, the private dwelling, which embraces the licensed house, is so utilised by parish authorities in different areas of the country as to give percentages of the total pauper insane so dealt with varying from 47 to 6 per cent. It is freely used in the northern counties of Ross, Inverness, Shetland, Suther- land, and Caithness, which dispose of their total insane in this way to the extent of 45 per cent. The county of Edinburgh occupies a good position with 29 per cent. Lanark is credited with 16-6 per cent. Nineteen counties fall below the mean of 21 per cent. There VOL. VI is no reason why the mean should not reach a figure as high as 33 per cent. For three years the urban parish of Edinburgh exceeded this figure.^ While the larger percentages ai'e attained by the instrumentality of inspectors of poor anxious and eager to do what is best for the insane themselves and for the taxpayers, regardless of the trouble involved, the smaller percentages may be set down mainly to a striking lack of interest on the part of parish officials. And it is exceedingly doubtful if the numbers provided for in this simple, safe, and economic way will increase much until an official specially set apart for large areas of the country is appointed, and until there is more co-operation between the asylum and parish authorities. It is believed by some that this could be attained in one way by better inducements to guardians in the way of aliment, the maximum at present being 7s. per week. There can be no doubt, for the non-productive patients, a weekly sum of 8s. or 8s. 6d. for aliment would increase the number of those desirous of being- guardians, and induce a class of guardian with better accommodation to apply. This was the case in the experience of the States of New York and Massachusetts, although the experi- ment did not succeed for reasons which do not exist in Scotland. A slight increase of the aliment, which is fixed by the Parish Councils, would be justified, if for no other reason than that the cost of living, fuel, and taxation has risen in recent years. Sir Arthur Mitchell, writing from a unique experience of the insane, says that "if happiness with enjoyment can be increased in the private dwelling, the State has no right to deprive him of that blessing, even if it costs a little more instead of a little less." There is much to be said for this view. The treatment and consideration shown the insane in family is regulated quite as much by kindly and humane feelings as by a sense of duty in return for a payment which at the highest rate of board offered can only leave a narrow margin of profit. To conclude that the attitude of the guardian towards the patient is in the main a selfish one would be as mis- taken in view of the relative positions on the one hand, as on the other to accept that a spirit of altruism solely animated the guardian. The annual saving to the ratepayers on the 2700 insane is not less than £40,000, when compared with asylum cost; and to house them all in institutions, if that became obligatory, would cost nearly a million sterling, the interest on capital, £35,000, being considerably more 1 Clark Bell of New York stated, at a discussion in the Psychiatric Section of the Thirteenth International Medical Congress, Paris, in August 1900, that he had learned from the medical superintendents of large asylums in the United States that 60 per cent of the patients could be properly provided for in this way.LUNACY 18 than half the present total cost of maintenance in private dwellings. There is a suspicion that so long as the responsibility for the insane continues divided, in so far as the District Lunacy Boards provide the accommodation, and Parish Councils find the patients and pay for their maintenance in asylums, the utilisation of the private dwelling so sparingly made by im- portant counties, as revealed by anomalies ex- pressed by percentages as divergent as 47 and 6, will not be taken advantage of to anything like its real capacity. A critic in the Journal of Mental Science for 1901 with some justifica- tion says: " It is but little use urging the extension of this practice upon the authority which is liable solely for the maintenance of the patients in order to curtail the expenditure of another authority (the District Lunacy Board) which is charged with the responsibility of providing the necessary accommodation. The stimulus is too indirect, and the weakness lies in the division of responsibility." Of late. Parish Councils have been taking action with the view of obtaining representation on District Asylum Boards. Of the 2700 insane, from 800 to 900 are to be found in small colonies in Fife, Stirling, Lanark, Perth, and Ayr. The highest number in any single colony is 40 and the lowest about 10. It is felt that the percentage of insane to population should not, as a rule, exceed 5 per cent. In a rural village, unless the circum- stances are exceptional, this is a high enough proportion ; but in rural districts, in which the patients have neither contact with others of their own class nor with members of the com- munity, the distance between farmhouses being considerable, the question of pei'centage to population does not assume the same import- ance. The Scottish percentages are far below those obtaining in towns and villages in France, Belgium, and Russia. The forms of mental dis- order, congenital and acquired, are to be found in private dwellings in about equal proportions, but there is evidence that acquired insanity cases will in the future predominate. Patients find their way to the boarding-out register by two methods—as unrecovered discharges from the asylums and as intimations by inspectors of poor, a larger number being in the former category. The supervision is entrusted to the medical officer of the parish, who makes four visits annually; to the inspector of poor, who makes two; and Visiting Commissioner of the General Board, who makes one, and two in special cases and in the case of the colonies. The medical attendant and the parish official make entries at each visit in the visitation book kept by the guardian, and the Visiting Commissioner reports to the General Board. In terms of the directions of the General Board, punishment or restraint of any kind is forbidden in private dwellings. From what lias been written it will be appar- ent that the " boarding out" system of Scotland has had a long and successful history during the past forty-four years, and that such a system, mutatis mutandis, should have a distinct place in the lunacy administration of every country in which the individual treatment of the insane or the nearest possible approach to it, in which a normal existence as opposed to a conventional one, and in which the happiness and greater freedom of the patient among those of his own class, are aimed at. The present position of the system, as well as its extension, is also amply justified on economic grounds as well as by the singular immunity to the insane them- selves from those accidents incidental to the general and to asylum populations, and from special accidents of the sexual, suicidal, and homicidal order, and by a remarkable immunity from similar accidents to the communities in which they reside, whose amenities and safety cannot really be said to have suffered during the forty-four years of its history. With modifications of the Scottish plan and with diff"erences necessitated by social, economic, and ethnic considerations, colonies are to be found at Dun-sur-Auron, near Bourges, France, to which patients from Paris and its environs are sent; at Gheel and Lierneux in Belgium; at Dalldorf, Reinickendorff, Bernau, and Pots- dam in Germany; and at Ekaterinoslov, Moscow, and Krasnapolie in Russia. The aggregations in these colonies amount to as many as 2000, 500, 400, and 130, and to most of them a small hospital is attached, as well as several doctors, whose sole duties are to supervise and treat them in the urban, village, and rural homes alike. In Scotland, asylums are so near all the colonies that return to the asylum of the minatory, the refractory, the sick, or those who for any other good reason are permanently or temporarily unfitted for private care, becomes an easy matter. Financial Burden of Pauper Lunacy.— That this burden is to the country an enormous and an increasing one is well known. But what is still more significant, not only is this burden keeping pace with the growth of lunacy, but it is outstripping it. Costlier buildings are being put up, with internal decorations and equipment in harmony, and the cost of main- tenance is likewise advancing. But in spite of this, which cannot fail to be known to the tax- payer, and the dragging burden of interest on institutions already constructed, the expendi- ture goes merrily on. An asylum costing .£500 to £600 per patient is not considered out of the way. No other country, not even the United States, possesses anything like them. Whether such extravagant buildings are needed is seri- ously open to question. But the taxable capacity even of a rich and prosperous country has its limits, and the line will have to beLUNACY 19 drawn soon in regard to edifices more like the palaces of the noblesse than institutions for the care of humble and dependent persons. Such costly buildings, it is safe to say, are not required for a large percentage, put as high as 50, of the inmates. It is within the mark to say that the institutions already in exist- ence to house the insane in the United King- dom and Ireland have cost the local taxpayer £36,000,000—England's share being approxi- mately £28,000,000, Scotland's £4,000,000, and Ireland's £4,000,000. The annual main- tenance bill, exclusive of interest on buildings, for the whole country in 1898 amounted to something like £3,000,000—England contribu- ting £2,300,000, Scotland £300,000, and Ire- land £360,000. These figures, which have a fabulous look about them, may well make the ratepayer hope that the advancing wave of chargeable lunacy will shortly show signs of receding. In Scotland, of the annual cost 59 per cent was borne by the payer of poor-rates, and 41 per cent was contributed by the State as a "grant-in aid." England and Ireland also receive imperial subventions. Lunar Caustic. — Nitrate of silver. See Silver and its Salts. Lunges, Diseases of. — These are considered in the following sections:— Tuberculosis 19 Pulmonary Fibrosis .... 64 Pneumonokoniosis 67 Gangrene . . . . -71 Emphysema 73 Vascular Derangements . . .77 Syphilis, Parasites, etc. .84 See also AGTmoMYCOSis{I)istri/jution of Lesions, Lungs); Anesthesia, General Physiology of (In Diseases of the Lungs); Asphyxia ; Bronchi, Bronchial Glands ; Bronchi, Bronchitis ; Bronchi, Bronchiectasis; Chest, Clinical Investigation of ; Chest, Deformities of ; Chest, Injuries of ; Chest Wall, Affections of ; Expectoration (Characters of Sputa); Hemoptysis (Pathogenesis, Etiology, Symptoma- tology, etc.); Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease); Hydatid Disease (General Symptomatology, Pulmonary Echinococci); Influenza (Clinical Features); Larynx, Diseases of ; Liver, Tropical Diseases of (Tropical Abscess, Prog- nosis, Rupture into a Bronchus, etc.); Measles (Complications) ; Mediastinum (Tumours, Gumma of Lungs, etc.); Medicine, Forensic (Wounds or Injuries, Rupture of Lungs); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation, Lungs); Nephritis (Clinical Features of Types, Respiratory System); Osteo- arthropathies (Pulmonary Osteo-Arthropathy); Physiology, Respiration ; Plague (Types, Pneumonic); Pleura, Diseases of ; Pleura, Surgery of ; Pneumonia, Bacteriology of ; Pneumonia, Clinical ; Post-mortem Methods (Thorax, The Lungs) ; Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications (Pulmonary Disturbances, Pneumonia, Phthisis, etc.); Pulse (Influence of Respiration, etc.) ; Syphilis (Tertiary, Visceral); Tuberculosis (Lungs); Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae, Respiratory System); Typhus Fever (Complications and Sequelae); Whooping-Cough. Tuberculosis of Lung Synonyms : Pid,momiry Tuberculosis ; Pulmo- nary Phthisis ; Pulmonary Consumption Introductory. General Description Historical .... Etiology— I. Essential Cause . Tubercle Bacillus Characters of Mode of Activity . Channels of Infection II. Predisposing and Auxiliary Factors— Heredity . Race and Climate Sex and Age Occupation Precedent Illnesses Pathological Anatomy— Of Lungs Of other Organs Clinical Features— General Outline Lung Symptoms— Cough .... Expectoration Hcemoptysis. Pain .... Dyspnoea Hoarseness . Physical Signs— General Of Advancinxf Consolidation Of Vomica Formation . Of Incipient Tuberculosis Of Cicatrising Lung Of Miliary Tuberculosis Constitutional Symptoms-— Pyrexia Emaciation . Anaemia Circulatory Disturbance and En- feeblement Gastro-intestinal Disturbance Sweating Complications— Respiratory . Alimentary . Hcemopoietic Circulatory .LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 20 Clinical Features—Complications (contd.)— Uro-genital ..... 43 Nervous ..... 44 Locomotory ..... 45 Integumentary .... 45 Clinical Varieties and Progress— Factors determining . . .46 Varieties . . . . .47 Acute— Miliary . . . .47 Broncho-pneumonic . . 47 Pneumonic . . . .47 Subacute . . . . .47 Chronic . . . . .47 Terminations .... 48 Diagnosis 48 Prognosis 50 Treatment— I. Prophylactic .... 52 A. Public Measures ... 53 B. Private Measures ... 54 II. Therapeutic. . . . .56 A. Measures for increasing Re- sisting Power— (1) Fresh Air ... 56 (2) Rest .... 57 (3) Activity ... 57 (4) Dietary ... 57 (5) Skin Hygiene . . 58 (6) Medication ... 59 Sanatoi'ia .... 59 Climate .... 60 B. Measures for attaching Bacillus more directly— Specific Line . . .61 C. Measiires for Relief of Symp- toms and Complications-— Pain .... 62 Cough .... 62 Expectoration, etc. . . 62 Introductory General Description.—Pulmonary tuberculosis is the term commonly used to describe the phenomena of tuberculous disease when the lung is the chief seat of invasion by the tubercle bacillus. The phenomena are not, however, limited to the lung. As that organ is affected, symptoms manifest themselves which are refer- able to the lung, such as cough, expectoration, dyspnoea. But along with those there are usually present, in greater or less degree, mani- festations of constitutional iuvolvement, which have much significance. The latter are often conspicuously in evidence when symptoms which might be more definitely referable to the lung are less certainly determinable. Indeed it may be said that in proportion as the clinical ex- pression of constitutional involvement is present, even though lung symptoms be slight, the out- look in pulmonary tuberculosis becomes grave. Variation in manifestation, both anatomical and clinical, is observable according to the avenue by which the tubercle bacillus reaches the lung. Three main avenues are to be recog- nised. Firstly, the tubercle bacillus may arrive through the respiratory passages by means of inhalation. This is the commonest mode of entrance. Secondly, the tubercle bacillus may arrive by way of the blood-stream. In this case, the tubercle bacillus, which has previously been present in some organ or tissue, has obtained access to the circulation and is swept along in the blood-stream to distant organs. In such circumstances it is probable that both lungs will be involved rapidly in widespread fashion. Such a dissemination of tubercle is not likely to be confined to the lung, but forms part of a generally disseminated miliary tuberculosis. Thirdly, the tubercle bacillus may be introduced or passed on from point to point by way of the lymph-stream. In this way the lung may become infected secondarily from tuberculous bronchial glands, caries of vertebrae, and the like. In this way, too, the tuberculous process, when once established in the lungs, advances. The vast significance of pulmonary tubercu- losis may be suitably emphasised by the citation of a few figures. Taking a wide statistic, we may reckon that for every 100,000 persons living, nearly 250 die from pulmonary tubercu- losis, or 2'5 per 1000 of the population. Some observers prefer to reckon the proportion as 3 per 1000. Much depends on the degree of exactness of diagnosis and post-mortem returns, and this varies greatly in different countries. If we limit our inquiry to present conditions in the United Kingdom we find that the numbers stand more nearly at 2 per 1000. It is a re- markable and reassuring fact, to which we shall return presently, that the mortality returns for the past twenty-five years show a diminution of fully one-third. This is the more significant when we recollect that during the same period greater attention has been paid to diagnosis. The mortality from pulmonary tuberculosis, compared with the total mortality, may be stated at 2*5 : 20. This calculation errs prob- ably in the direction of minimising i-ather than exaggerating the death-rate from pulmonary tuberculosis. The latter is frequently greater than the mortality from all the zymotic fevers collectively. It should be noted that in the present statement reference is made solely to the frequency and mortality of pulmonary tuberculosis. If along with the latter other forms of tuberculosis be included, the figures would be proportionately much increased. Pulmonary tuberculosis is an universal disease. It occurs in both sexes and at all ages. It is found in all countries and climates. It is a disease of both sexes equally. A wide statistic goes to show that the frequency of incidence in the two sexes is almost identical. The state- ment is subject to the correction that dispropor- tion between the sexes may occur in different21 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS districts by reason of special conditions of life (p. 24). It is a disease of all ages. It occurs more frequently in young children and old persons tlaan is apparently sometimes supposed. No age is exempt from its ravages. It is a disease of all countries and climates. Its dis- tribution is coterminous with the limits of civilisation. It is in fact an expression of civili- sation, or rather, let us say, of a partial, mis- informed civilisation. There is no latitude or altitude in which its voice is not heard, pro- vided mankind is present in sufficient numbers and under unhygienic conditions of life. Other things being equal, pulmonary tuberculosis is less common in a sparse population. With increasing density of population it becomes more frequent. Regarding the explanation of this we shall have something further to say under the head of etiology. Historical It is of much interest and value to trace briefly the gradual evolution of thought regard- ing pulmonary tuberculosis, from the purely clinical conception, through the various stages of anatomical and pathological investigation, to the etiological definition of to-day. The exact- ness of the last stands in remarkable contrast to the vagueness of half a century ago. Pulmonary tuberculosis has been recognised clinically from the earliest times. But its pathological relationships were not defined till the passing century, and its etiology in greatest measure was determined scarcely twenty years ago. Hippocrates discussed the disease under the term phthisis, which has become classic. Like the corresponding Latin derivative " con- sumption," the name has not much scientific significance and is gradually being dropped. Nevertheless the more conspicuous clinical phenomena of the disease were well known to Hippocrates and Celsus. It was not until dis- sections were made that the term tubercle came into vogue. Used at first in a morphological sense to describe small, rounded new growths of varying size, the term has gradually assumed more and more pathological definition. Much discussion has ensued as to the limits of its meaning. The anatomists and physicians of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries made use of the name tubercle with varying descriptive explanations (ganglia, granulations, etc.) which may seem confusing. The important fact re- mains, however, that those observers, while differing in respect of their descriptions, recog- nised the kind of lesion present in the disease. We shall see presently that the infective nature of these new growths or granulomata was not unsuspected by some of them. At the close of the eighteenth century a more exact description was offered by Baillie, who emphasised the significance of the individual tubercle and pointed out that the larger crude masses were due to a collection of small tubercles. He showed that the centre of the larger masses tended to break down by suppura- tion, and this in turn produced phthisis. It is, however, to Bayle that is due the credit of elaborating the conception of the miliary tubercle and its gradual passage from a state of firm consistence to caseation and softening. Unfortunately, while contributing much to the elucidation of the pathology, Bayle continued the existing clinical confusion by admitting six groups of phthisis: 1. tuberculous phthisis ; 2. granulous phthisis; 3. phthisis with melan- osis ; 4. ulcerous phthisis; 5. calculous phthisis ; 6; cancerous phthisis. It remained for Laennec to indicate the unity of the tuberculous process in the lungs, and its essential dependence, in all its phases, on the presence of tuberculous deposits. For him tuberculosis and phthisis were identical pro- cesses and the terms interchangeable. His views were shared and elaborated by Louis. It gradually came to be recognised that phthisis and scrofulous manifestations, wherever these may be found, are pathologically alike. In spite of this, misleading conceptions of pul- monary tuberculosis as primarily an in- flammatory affection were prevalent till quite recently. Virchow defined tubercle more ex- actly, and pointed out that caseation was a process not confined to tubercle, and further, that while tubercle tended to caseate, it might calcify or might be absorbed and so the disease be healed. Virchow instituted a distinction between tuberculous phthisis and caseous pneumonia which later facts have not quite justified. Thereafter investigation and discussion occu- pied themselves largely with the intimate structure of tubercle and the origin and significance of the giant cell. But in 1865 fresh light was thrown on the whole subject by the results of Villemin's experiments. Villemin showed by inoculation that tuberculosis was a specific, inoculable, and virulent affection. In appraising these remarkable observations it is right to recall the fact that the infectious nature of tuberculosis was suspected, if not definitely recognised, by some of the earlier physicians and anatomists. Thus Morgagni, Morton, van Swieten, Valsalva, and others evinced their belief practically by great un- willingness to undertake the autopsy on tuber- culous cadavera. Morgagni states definitely that he had scarcely dissected a single body of the kind. Nor was the conception confined to the scientific mind. In Naples—and to less degree in some parts of France, Spain, and Portugal—stringent regulations existed a century ago with reference to the isolation of tuberculous subjects and the disinfection of their dwellings and effects. Notification was enjoined on physicians by law, with a penaltyLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 22 for the first offence of 300 ducats, and for the second of banishment for ten years. During the earlier half of the nineteenth century, how- ever, the view, while not dismissed, fell rather into the background. Leading physicians were prepared to admit the possibility of its transmissibility under certain conditions. Thus Laennec thought it proper and prudent to insist on precautions. It is pathetically curious to read that he traced the tuberculosis from which he afterwards suffered to a post-mortem injury. Others expressed themselves in opposition to the view. In 1843 Klencke reported that he had succeeded in producing widespread tuber- culous disease by the intravenous injection into rabbits of tuberculous products. These ex- periments seem to have made little impression. The announcement of Villemin of the in- oculability of tuberculosis roused a storm of criticism. For a time it seemed almost proved that the introduction of other bodies besides tuberculous products was capable of producing similar effects. It was shown, however, in turn that the experiments pointing in this direction were fallacious. Further elaboration of Ville- min's experiments went to show that direct inoculation and introduction of the tuberculous virus by ingestion and inhalation were alike capable of reproducing the disease. All these observations tended likewise to emphasise the unity of the tuberculous process in contradiction of the dual view which had been admitted by Virchow and others. In 1881 Koch announced the discovery of the tubercle bacillus. This brilliant discovery, the validity of which was never seriously contested, finally afforded a firm basis of fact. The tubercle bacillus is the cause of tuberculosis. Without the tubercle bacillus there can be no tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is the pathological condition produced by the presence and activity of the specific organism. If the tubercle be present, whatever the variety of clinical mani- festation, we are justified in labelling the process tuberculous. The essential unity of the tuberculous process is established beyond dispute. More recent research has been directed to the life-history of the tubercle bacillus, the chemical nature of the organism and its products, and the pathogenic properties of these. Thereby much light has been thrown on the nature of the morbid process and the cause of death in pulmonary tuberculosis. Etiology 1. Essential Cause.—The tubercle bacillus is the central etiological factor. Other contribu- tory factors are of much significance; but the actual cause—causa sine qua non—is the bacillus. This has been certainly demonstrated l)y Koch. The organism is found in the tissues of all tuberculous organs; it can be cultivated on a variety of media outside the body. In- oculation of healthy animals by means of these cultures certainly reproduces tuberculosis. Morphological Characters.—These are detailed more fully elsewhere (see " Tuberculosis"). The bacilli are thin, slender rods, varying in size from 2'5 /x to 3-5 /t, or about \ to -| the length of the diameter of a red blood corpuscle. They are straight or often slightly incurved. Many present a beaded aspect. Whether the apparent beading is the expression of spore- formation or vacuolation is not quite certain. The weight of testimony is in favour of the latter view. The bacilli occur frequently in little clumps or masses; sometimes they are grouped in filamentous fashion. They are non-motile. Staining Reactions. — Many methods have been described. It is usual to make use of fuchsin or gentian violet dissolved in carbolic acid solution. The staining process is hastened by warmth. For clinical purposes the Ziehl- Neelsen method, or Gabbett's modification of this, is convenient (p. 30). Cultures.—The bacillus grows slowly. Of culture media may be mentioned inspissated blood serum, glycerine agar, glycerine bouillon, potatoes and other vegetables, especially when glycerine has been added. The optimum temperature for growth is 37° to 38° C. Vitality.—Even outside the body the bacillus is fairly long-lived. Thus dried sputum con- taining the bacillus retains its virulence for 2-3 months, and possibly for 6-8 months. If kept in water, the virulence may be retained for many months. The bacilli resist putrefac- tion for many weeks. In the moist state they are rapidly killed—say in five minutes—if the temperature be elevated to 100° C, while if dried they may withstand the same temperature for an hour. They are highly resistant to cold, even the frozen state. On the other hand, their virulence is speedily lost on exposure to sun- light. Direct sunlight kills them in a few minutes, or, at most, an hour or two, and diffuse light in several days. Chemical agents are resisted variously, e.g. 5 per cent carbolic acid destroys their virulence in a few hours, and often in a shorter time. Mode of Activity.—This can only be rapidly sketched. Further consideration will be found imder " Tuberculosis." When the bacillus has obtained a footing in the tissues, it quickly multiplies, and gives rise to local and general changes. The local changes are twofold. In the first place, proliferation of connective tissue elements takes place. Newly formed epithelioid cells make their appearance. Small foci of these occur in relation to the multiplying bacilli. This proliferative process advances rapidly, and associated therewith there appear small round cells—migratory uni-nucleated leucocytes—which gradually increase in numbei".LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 23 The further steps in the production of a so- called giant cell are involved in some doubt. It seems most likely that the structure known as the giant cell is produced by an increase of single epithelioid cells. Proliferation of the nucleus occurs, without division of the proto- plasm, so that one such cell may come to contain many oval nuclei. Such cells, often provided with numerous processes, may be studied at all periods of development, with a varying number of nuclei. The second manifestation of local activity is due to the toxic influence of the bacilli on the cell elements. This is best observed in the centre of a tuberculous focus, where the distinctive outline and character of the cells is lost, and fusion takes place more or less definitely. With a continuance of the process, the resulting homo- geneous mass becomes more and more granular. This process of cell necrosis passes on to caseation. Both are to be interpreted as result- ing from the local toxic activity of products of the bacilli. When necrosis and caseation, and resulting disintegration, proceed more rapidly, the more delicate histological changes —more especially giant-cell formation — may be hardly traceable. In such cases they must be sought towards the outlying peripheral portion. When the necrotic process is slower, giant-cell formation is more easily traced. The variation in manifestation depends on the munber, distribution, and activity of the bacilli, and, doubtless, on the degree of resistance offered by the tissue elements. In proportion to the extent of their successful invasion, the functional activity of the lung is compromised. The work of disintegration is hastened by the presence of other organisms (mixed infection). The general or more distant changes result in one of two ways. Either the bacilli them- selves are carried to other parts, or their products, received into the circulation, exert their toxic influence more widely. The bacilli may be carried to other parts per vias naturales, as in swallowing of sputum, when the intestine may become invaded. Similarly the larynx, trachea, or other portion of the respiratory apparatus may become affected by direct contact of bacillus-containing discharge. Or the bacilli may invade the vessels, and be swept along in the blood-stream, and so be carried to distant parts (cf. Meningeal Tubercu- losis, Acute Miliary Tuberculosis, etc). Such involvements may take place in a variety of organs from actual transference of bacilli. On the other hand, systemic effects of the gravest sort result from the absorption into the circulation of the toxic products of the bacilli. Among such effects must be reckoned the progressive enfeeblement and emaciation, pyrexia, circulatory prejudice, which tend towards death. Eminently toxic products, which act especially on the circulation, and determine a gradual marasmus, have been separated from tuberculous expectoration. The significance of these has been emphasised by the subsequent elaboration of tuberculin from pure cultures of the tubercle bacillus. Further observations in respect of dead tubercle bacilli have shown that their bodies contain certain substances which act locally, so as to produce proliferation of tissue elements and even disintegrative changes, and constitutionally, so as to produce progressive marasmus and emaciation. Chajinels of Infection.—So far as the lung is concerned, the great channel of infection is inhalation. Tubercle bacilli from sputum and other discharges retain their virulence for long, even when dried, if not exposed to direct sun- light. By way of inhalation such bacilli obtain lodgment in some recess of the respiratory organs. Lodgment is effected more easily under certain conditions to be considered presently. In other cases the lungs are reached less directly. Another organ may be attacked first, e.g. one or other gland. From this organ the bacilli may pass either more slowly by way of lymph channels, or more rapidly by way of blood-vessels, to the lung. In the latter case an acute miliary eruption may result. Inges- tion and direct inoculation through the skin are of less significance, so far as pulmonary tuberculosis is concerned. Following either method of introduction, a secondary lung infection may be established. As compared with inhalation, however, these methods are of small account. Means of Propagation.—The infecting bacilli are in the great majority of cases obtained from the discharges of a consumptive patient. The sputum dries and disintegrates into fine particles, which are in course carried as dust, and deposited here and there. Such infective dust is especially likely to be found in apart- ments in which tuberculous patients live, or to which they have frequent access. The likelihood is greater in proportion as the persons are dirty or even careless in respect of the disposition of discharges. It is greater in dark, low-lying, airless, and sunless apart- ments than elsewhere. It must be kept in view that any apartment may become infected. There is abundant experimental evidence for the statement, that many infected houses and institutions exist in all large communities. Experimental observation has determined that our public conveyances are frequently infected, and there can be no doubt that personal clothing and other fomites are similarly con- taminated. The leading factor in the pro- duction of this undesirable state of matters is ignorance and carelessness regarding necessary precautions in the disposition of expectoration and other discharges. Apart from the dis- charges, the disease is not contagious.24 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS Direct transmission of tuberculosis from parent to child has been shown to occur by several competent observers. Thus tubercle bacilli have been found at birth in the calf of a tuberculous cow and also in the human foetus. Similarly, both in the human subject and in animals, tubercle bacilli have been found in the placenta. But the recorded cases are few ; and the evidence is abundant, that both in man and animals a highly tuberculous mother generally bears perfectly healthy offspring. It has been suggested that in such cases the mischief is merely latent, and, in support of this view, attention is directed to the obscure outbreaks of tuberculosis in bones, joints, and other structures, to which access from without appears difficult. Nevertheless the weight of evidence meantime is clearly in favour of the doctrine that direct transmission of tuberculosis from parent to offspring, while possible, is yet very infrequent. II, Predisposing and Auxiliary Factors.— Heredity. — Granted that the direct transmission of the disease is uncommon, the significance of heredity is not therefore to be discounted. There can be little doubt regarding the heredi- tary transmission of susceptible or less resistant tissues. This is true in respect of many forms of infection. Observations in support of it might be cited both from the vegetable and from the animal world. In the human subject, tissues which resist strongly one form of attack yield readily to another. Some families appear to have a bias towards, or special liability to, one or other of the acute fevers, while they are little susceptible to others. A similar condition of relative susceptibility or insusceptibility has been recorded of different races in the presence of contagion introduced for the first time from without. The fact of varying susceptibility of tissue is illustrated in connection with bacterio- logical and pharmacological research, where difficulty is experienced sometimes^ because of the insusceptibility of certain animals to certain contagions and poisons. It seems reasonable, then, in respect of tuberculosis to admit the analogy, and limit the influence of heredity to the production in the tissues of a susceptibility to, or at least a diminished power of resisting, the tubercle bacillus. The frequent discovery post-mortem of healed tuberculosis points to the fact that certain individuals resist the virus more than do others. Race a?id Climate.—Pulmonary tuberculosis affects the human race in most widespread fashion. Its distribution throughout the globe corresponds closely with the limits of civilisation. There is no immunity of race. It may occur in any climate. The apparent exceptions to the universal distribution are traceable rather to sparseness of human habitation or particular mode of life than to geographical immunity. On the other hand, certain topographical con- ditions appear to exercise a prejudicial influence in relation to the development and spread of the disease. Damp, low-lying, badly aerated, and relatively sunless districts favour the operations of the bacillus, while the reverse conditions are unfavourable. But the disease prevails in all places where it has obtained a footing. It is worthy of remark, that the inhabitants of certain places, formerly visited by consumptive patients because of the in- frequency of the disease, have in time become infected in large numbers. Sex and Age.—The two sexes appear equally liable. This broad statement is subject to the correction that in certain districts, because of the kind of labour, one or other sex may be more exposed to risk. Thus in some manu- facturing centres, where female labour is largely employed, the proportion of women attacked is relatively greater. The rate of progress of the disease varies somewhat in sexes, being ap- parently more rapid in female than male subjects. In respect of condition, there does not seem traceable an important difference between the married and single, save that frequent pregnancy and prolonged lactation must be assessed as auxiliary factors of some moment. There can be no doubt that the effect of pregnancy on a consumptive woman, if at first sometimes apparently conservative, is ultimately unfavour- able {vide p. 52). The disease occurs at all ages. Below five years there are comparatively few cases. From five to ten the frequency is considerably in- creased. From ten to twenty there is a great increase, which becomes greater year by year till the latter limit is reached. This is followed by a still greater increase during the decade from twenty to thirty, the maximum being reached between twenty-five and thirty. Between thirty and forty there is a decrease, especially marked after thirty-five. A more rapid fall occurs between forty and fifty, and similarly between fifty and sixty. Thereafter there are still fewer cases. The most frequent date for the incidence of phthisis is somewhat earlier in the female subject. After thirty-five the pro- portion of male cases continues distinctly in excess. The frequency of phthisis in children and persons of advanced age is much greater than is often supposed. Occupation and Mode of Life.—This is of vast importance. Statistics prove abundantly the greater frequency of the disease among indoor workers. This is in large part dependent on the insanitary conditions of workshops, factories, offices, and dwellings. In huge proportion, these are far too small, ill-ventilated, and dirty. Many are in addition actually infected, through the careless disposition of tuberculous sputum. The danger is aggravated in many instances by the dustiness of the occupation, which, by pro- ducing catarrhal conditions, favours successful25 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS invasion by the bacillus. Outdoor workers are notably less liable to the disease. Unfortunately in their case the house conditions may be no less unsatisfactory. The airless conditions of most houses among all classes is responsible for much of the disease. In reference to occupa- tion and mode of life, it is of significance to recall that, in the case of the lower animals, it is not the beast exposed to all weathers, and breeding in the open, which falls victim to tubercvilous disease, but comfortably housed milch cows whose ranks are decimated. The comparative immunity enjoyed by the goat, and even Highland cattle, is probably to be explained in this way. Precedent Illnesses. — These are frequently cited as contributory causes. The statement is but partially true : it may be entirely mislead- ing. The subject is a complicated one. For, in the first place, many illnesses, credited with causal relationship, are themselves expressions of previously existing tuberculosis. This is conspicuously true of pleiirisy. In the vast majority of instances a precedent pleurisy does not lead to pulmonary tuberculosis by effecting damage and lowered resistance in the lung. The pleurisy is in most cases an ex- pression of already existing tuberculous disease. The pleurisy may appear to get cured, but inasmuch as the tuberculosis on which it de- pends is probably not cured, fresh manifestations may be expected. Lack of recognition of this fact is responsible for much of the current incompleteness of treatment of tuberculosis. While pleurisy is in all cases toxic in origin, in an immense majority the toxic factor is tuberculosis. Bronchitis is cited as leading to tuberculosis. This statement must be accepted with grave reservation. The greater number of ordinary cases of bronchitis—both acute and chronic— recover or continue, and the patient dies with- out suspicion of tuberculosis. In a certain member, the catarrhal condition of the passages may seem the avenue by which tuberculosis is established. But a grave fallacy underlies the statement as commonly made. A large number of cases of pulmonary tuberculosis are spoken of for long—often throughout—as if they were cases of bronchitis. This is true of cases at all ages, but is especially so in respect of tubercu- losis occurring among children and old persons. Both in life, and afterwards to the registrar- general, these cases are unfortunately labelled bronchitis. Pneumonokoniosis may lead to tuberculosis, although it may run its course independent of this. Many cases, e.g. of stonemason's disease, begin in the non-specific way and present for long the features (physical and other) of a simple pulmonary fibrosis, and yet perhaps tail off into pulmonary tuberculosis, as proved by the presence of tubercle bacillus in the expec- toration and the tissues post-mortem. Acute pneumonia has been supposed to terminate sometimes in pulmonary tuberculosis. This is probably not so. With regard to cases which seem to end thus, it is obviously diflicult to exclude a pre-existing tuberculosis, for croupous pneumonia occurs frequently enough in the subject of chronic lung disease. Fiirther, there is reason to believe that cases of subacute basal tuberculosis are sometimes mistaken for croupous pneumonia. In such event it is easy to see how misleading conceptions of the sequence of events might arise. Some of the acute fevers, notably measles, whooping-co^igh, and infiuenza, have been supposed to lead to subsequent tuberculosis. With respect to measles and whooping-cough there is often a disregard of necessary precautions during convalescence, which then results in a continuance of an un- healthy, catarrhal state of the mucous mem- branes, which in turn prepares the way for the tubercle bacillus. Influenza may sometimes be similarly responsible. In a still larger number of instances, influenza appears to waken into activity a latent tuberculosis. Other diseases might be shown to be related to tuberculosis in one or other of these ways—(1) by their devital- ising action on tissues, whereby they are rendered less resistant to the bacillus {cf. " Diabetes "); (2) by their power of rekindling dormant or quiescent tuberculous processes. Heart-Disease.—Mitral disease has been reck- oned antagonistic to tuberculosis. But this cannot be stated so universally. It is indeed remarkable that the subjects of mitral disease, who often perforce must lead a sedentary life, should not more frequently contract tuberculosis. But large experience in relation to pulmonary tuberculosis goes to show that the two condi- tions are not so infrequent concomitants as has been stated. It is of some interest to note that cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, accompanied by mitral disease, tend to run a chronic course. Pulmonary stenosis — commonly a congenital manifestation — often comes to be associated with pulmonary tuberculosis. Pathological Anatomy The pathological appearances vary endlessly, as might be expected from the great variety of clinical course which pulmonary tuberculosis follows. But the morbid appearances—how- ever great their variety—group themselves in relation to the constantly present tubercle, which we have seen to be the immediate re- sultant of successful invasion of the tissues by the tubercle bacillus. On this fact rests the essential unity of phthisis; hence the ad- vantage of the term pulmonary tuberculosis over other terminology introduced at a time when the pathological relationships were ill understood. Much of the so-called classification of the disease has been, therefore, discarded.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 26 The distribution of tubercle throughout the lung and the subsequent changes which take place vary according to the avenue of entrance of the tubercle and the acuteness or chronicity of the process. Three possibilities fall to be considered: (1) If the bacillus, as is most common, reaches the lung by way of the re- spiratory passages, the subsequent changes are usually, though not always, of more chronic nature, and the distribution of the tuberculous change more local. The micro-organism com- monly passes the main air-passages and becomes entangled in one of the terminal bronchioles or alveoli. Having obtained a footing, the bacillus initiates the series of changes which go to the evolution of the tubercle — proliferation of epithelial and connective-tissue cells and accumulation of migratory leucocytes (p. 22). The further developments, as the different elements of the lung-tissue are disturbed, will be considered presently. (2) If the bacillus, as not infrequently happens, reaches the lung by way of the blood circulation, e.g. from a caseous focus in some other organ or gland or in the lung itself, the subsequent changes are likely to be rapid and widely distributed throughout both lungs and probably other organs of the body. The micro-organism is entangled in embolic fashion in the alveolar capillaries, and here the process of tubercle formation is commenced. By extension the alveolar wall becomes implicated. (3) If the bacillus, as occurs rarely, reaches the lung by way of the lymph channels from a carious con- dition of bone (vertebra, rib) or a tuberculous gland, the resultant process is likely to be gradual and localised to an area, which has for its centre the first point of eruption. In this case, likewise, the bacillus starts the process of tubercle-formation, until a group of miliary tubercles or a larger tuberculous - focus is produced. In each case, while the process of tubercle- formation is the same (p. 22), the after-effects and resultant appearances depend on the path of entrance and extension, and the acuteness or chronicity of the process. In acute miliary tuberculosis the lung may present merely the evidences of congestion and a miliary eruption of tubercles, each of which, to the naked eye, resembles the other—greyish or greyish-yellow specks or grains about the size of millet seed—and, on microscopic exami- nation, reveals the structure of the tubercle already described. Such a lung may contain in addition an older tuberculous focus, to which the miliary eruption is perhaps secondary. The appearances of such a focus are similar to those to be described presently in relation to chronic tuberculosis. When invasion is by way of the respiratory passages, the process sometimes becomes limited through the development of fibrous tissue. This forms a barrier to the further migration of bacilli. Later on, shrinkage and cicatrisation of the area takes place, with perhaps slight puckering of the pleura over the part. This is the kind of thing seen frequently, post- mortem, in the lungs of persons who have died from other conditions altogether. On the other hand, the process may not be so limited. The bacilli multiply and distribute themselves among the tissues in all directions by direct continuity, or through lymph channels, or by the air-passages. At each point of successfvil attack the process of tubercle-formation repeats itself. Groups of tubercles are formed; these in turn may become aggregated into larger masses. The gradual fusion and cell necrosis which follow produce the appearance known as caseation. Associated with the deposit of the bacilli and the consequent irritation, congestive changes occur in the neighbouring structures — bronchiolitis, peribronchitis, and broncho-pneu- monia. The above sketch is sufticiently descrip- tive and explanatory of the appearances of congestion, infiltration, and caseation, which are sometimes less satisfactorily referred to as con- stituting definite stages of one process. With the extension of disease throughout the lung, the successive steps of the morbid process are repeated in fresh areas. The amount of fibrosis determined varies much in diffei-ent cases. It is commonly greater in proportion to the chronicity of the process. What happens further to the caseous focil They may become encircled by a zone of re- actionary fibrosis. Thus encapsuled, the cheesy material sometimes calcifies and a firm con- cretion results. This may be found in situ, or if softening occur in its neighbourhood, it may be expectorated in life (p. 30). Such softening is apt to occur, and the disintegrating material makes its way into the air-passages, leaving cavities of varying size. When the resultant cavities are of small dimensions, contraction tends to follow and their granulating surfaces may gradually come together and even cicatrise. The process is seldom, however, so simple. By way either of lymphatic channels or the bronchial system (inspiration, coughing) tubercle bacilli get distributed more widely throughout the lung. This means, as we have just seen, the dissemination gradually or more rapidly of fresh tubercles, either isolated or agglomerated, which in turn pass through the described series of changes. When the distribution of bacilli has been thus effected, the resultant coiadition commonly affects both the bronchi and the lung-tissue proper. In one case this gives rise to tuberculous bronchitis and peribronchitis (the tubercle being disposed in bead-like fashion along the blood-vessels and bronchioles—peri- vascular and peribronchial tubei'culosis). In another case the lung parenchyma—alveolarLUNGS, DISEASES 27 OF—TUBERCULOSIS cavities and mucous surface of bi'onchioles—is more directly involved, the resultant process constituting a caseous broncho - pneumonia. This in turn leads to further peribronchial and perivascular involvement, so that it is impossible to separate the conditions completely. Such a caseous broncho-pneumonia may be limited in extension to a small area round a terminal bronchus, or may affect one or more lobules, or may apparently involve an entire lobe. When softening and disintegration go ahead quickly, the clinical phenomena are correspondingly acute (p. 46). This is one type of condition which is sometimes confused with croupous pneumonia On section, the difference between the hmgs is apparent. The lung of caseous pneumonia presents a more uniform, flat, moist surface, while that of croupous pneumonia is granular and dry. Sometimes the affected lung becomes the seat of an abundant serous, gelatinous, almost fibrinous exudation — the so-called " gelatiniform infiltration." The infil- tration is frequently accompanied by caseous patches. We have seen how lesser cavities may con- tract and, finally, cicatrisation ensue. Where softening, liquefaction, and discharge occur in relation to an extensive focus of caseation, larger vomicae result. The granulating surfaces are easily injured, and so bleeding may result. Sufficient shrinkage is more difficult of attain- ment. Hence though contraction occurs up to a certain point, the walls are apt to gape in part, and a greater or smaller cavity continues permanently. The process of excavation may proceed throughout a large part of the lung, until at parts little is left save fibrous trabeculse and bands, outlining cavities as large as a hen's egg or an orange. The cheesy debris which remains in relation to many of these cavities contains tubercle bacilli, often in enormous quantity, and commonly streptococci and diplo- cocci, along with elastic tissue. In regard to the blood-vessels in affected areas, many are obliterated by thrombosis. There may be evidence of ulceration of the vessel wall, which in life may have caused bleeding. In other cases, considerable dilata- tion of one or other branch of the pulmonary artery—an actual aneurysm—may be present in relation to a vomica. Such aneurysms are frequently as large as a ripe black-currant; they may be as large as an olive. The aneurysm occurs on the exposed side of the vessel, and results from lack of support and inflammatory changes in the wall. Rupture of such an aneurysm gives rise to the most serious variety of haemoptysis, which frequently terminates in death. Some degree of emphysema is usually present in more chronic cases. Indeed, this may be so considerable as both in life and post-mortem to obscure the consolidation. In many cases, the emphysematous areas alternate with areas of consolidation. Less or more bronchitis is likely to be discovered. Similarly bronchiectasis may be present, more especially in the case of the smaller bronchi. The pleura is almost certainly involved to a greater or less extent. There may be evidence of recent pleurisy, either fibrinous or sero- fibrinous. Where fluid is present, it may he less or more blood-stained. More commonly there are fibrous adhesions, either general or localised. The pleura is more or less thickened. Sometimes the membrane is inch or more thick and of great density. The trabeculse passing from the thickened pleura into the lung show marked fibrous increase. Where contrac- tion and cicatrisation have occurred in relation to a consolidated area, the overlying pleura presents a puckered aspect. The altered pleura may or may not present evident indication of tuberculous change. In many instances it is simply fibrous. Other cases present tuberculous nodules or scattered miliary tubercle. Empyema is occasionally present. There may be evidence of perforation of the pleura, e.g. in relation to a superficially placed vomica. More than one point of perforation may be foiind. In such case some of the vomica contents may be present along with air (pneumothorax, pyopneumo- thorax), and the lung is more or less collapsed, according to the less or greater amount of fibrosis in the lung and adhesions with the pleura. More rarely, through escape of air into the tissues of the mediastinum or tho- racic wall, subcutaneous emphysema may be present. The bronchial glands are most generally in- volved. They are enlarged, often forming large masses. Caseation is frequent, either in small foci or throughout the entire gland. Softening may be in progress, or have led to rupture into the air-passages, oesophagus, or other structure. At other times the glands are partly calcified. Similar changes may be present in relation to tracheal and mediastinal glands. It may be serviceable to add a few words regarding the lines of distribution of the tubercu- lous process throughout the lung. In the com- monly occurring case of infection by the air- passages, the first deposits are found towards the apex of the upper lobe on one side. This gradually extends downwards. In most cases a similar process commences within a short while at the apex of the other lung. It is not common to find, as is sometimes stated on insufficient clinical evidence, that one lung is greatly in- volved and the other is free of disease. About the same time or sometimes sooner, a similar process may be discovered towards the apex of the lower lobe. This occurs long before the upper lobe has become affected throughout. The usual extension is not, therefore, a con- tinuous one from above downward throughoutLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 28 the entire lung, but rather throughout each lobe. The base of the lower lobe would be the last part to be reached in such extension, and this is often so. On the other hand, the base may be affected much earlier by inhalation of bacillus-bearing discharge. In this way a basal caseous pneumonia of considerable extent may result. We have already seen that, when the infection is introduced by the blood circulation, there is a widespread dissemination of tubercle throughout both lungs. When the bacilli reach the lung by lymphatic channels at an unusual point, e.g. in relation to disease of bony or glandular structures, the distribution takes place gradually from the point of first eruption as a centre. Changes in other Organs.—Some of these are incidental to the disease in all its forms. Others are dependent on direct tuberculous involvement of particular organs. The heart is commonly small, pale, and soft, and presents other evidence of fatty degenera- tion. In more chronic lung processes, where fibrosis has proceeded far, the right side of the heart presents evidence of dilatation, and perhaps a trace of hypertrophic change. Peri- carditis and endocarditis are not frequent. Actual deposit of tubercle is very rare. The stomach and bowel may show catarrhal or amyloid changes. The intestine may present tuberculous infiltration or ulceration. The mesenteric glands may be enlarged and caseous. There may be indication of chronic peritonitis. The liver may be fatty or amyloid. The spleen and kidney may be affected by waxy disease. In the case of the latter this may be complicated by inflammatory changes. The tonsils, fauces, and more particularly the larynx may be affected by tuberculous disease. Reference is made to these appearances else- where. The nervous system may be variously dis- turbed ; meningeal tuberculosis (either cerebral or spinal) may determine the fatal result. Tuberculous foci may be found within the brain. In relation to the nerves themselves, evidence of neuritis may be discovered. The muscles throughout the body are usually atrophied to a marked degree, and to some extent in a state of fatty degeneration. Clinical Features The clinical manifestations and course of pulmonary tuberculosis are most inconstant. The symptoms vary endlessly in kind and degree. It will be serviceable, therefore, to in- dicate briefly at this point how it is proposed to consider these. Accepting the essential unity of pulmonary tuberculosis notwithstanding its protean mani- festations, it is necessary to discard as misleading a large part of the attempted subdivisions of the subject. Thus, in the first place, all sub- divisions adopted prior to the establishment of the bacillary doctrine fall to the ground. Further, it serves no useful purpose—and it is apt to breed confusion—to seek to identify clinically all the variations of lung change which may be recognised and separately labelled post-mortem. Such specious refinement of diagnosis is faulty, because the proposed sub- divisions lay too much stress on the local lung lesion. They obscure the identity and unity of the pathological process and its constitutional bearings. The disease is an infective malady, produced by invasion of the lung by the tubercle bacillus, which, unless cured, tends towards death, not alone, or even chiefly, because of disintegration and destruction of lung, but rather through a process of systemic intoxication. The effect of this intoxication is widespread. In addition, there falls to be considered the possibility of complication from the side of nearly every organ. These diversify almost endlessly the clinical picture. The onset and advance of the process is commonly most insidious. The patients cannot tell exactly when it commenced—or they have a most misleading story. There is frequently the fallacious statement of " catching cold" some time or other. There may be more definite allusion to unhygienic surroundings, or conditions favouring infection, or precedent illness, e.g. measles, influenza, which may have led to the disease or stimulated a latent process to fresh activity. In this connection a word of caution is not out of place with reference to supposed precedent illness. For example, there can be no doubt that manifestations of tuberculosis are misinterpreted sometimes and characterised as influenza. Such mistakes, which might be avoided by a rigidly careful scrutiny of the chest, are a source of immediate and future risk to the patient. The patient may complain at first of re- spiratory symptoms, such as cough, expectora- tion, hasmoptysis, dyspnoea, huskiness, or pain. Very frequently the first manifestation to be observed is a pleurisy. This is unfortunately apt to be treated as a disease per se, and not, as it is in a majority of cases, merely a symptom of tuberculosis. On the other hand, he may complain more vaguely of manifestations of constitutional involvement, e.g. languor, lack of keenness and fitness for work, loss of appetite, disturbed digestion, loss of flesh, feverishness, sweating, and the like. In other cases the patient may present himself because of glandular enlarge- ment (cervical, axillary, etc.). In presence of such complaints the duty of the physician is a most pressing one. There is no manner of doubt that, if the condition were more generally suspected and determined at this early period, and the patient's life rearranged suitably, count- less lives might be saved. An important factor in swelling the mortality from pulmonaryLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 29 tuberculosis is the neglect or casual laissez-faire policy followed at this time. The appearance of the patient varies much. It is often characteristic, but not always so. Some patients, although gravely affected by disease, re- main fat, round, and well-preserved. This must be borne in mind. In most instances, however, the evidence of loss of flesh and tone is striking. The patient is commonly thin. He seems thinner than he has been or ought to be. The loss of adipose tissue impresses lines on the face and other parts which should not be. The muscles are less bulky and more flabby and feeble. Thereby the natural roundness of outline is further lost. In advanced stages the patient may become literally a bag of skin and bones. The natural colour is disturbed. In many cases the aspect of delicacy is conspicuous. The thinned translucent skin reveals too easily the frequent fluctuation of the circulation. Pallor alternates with vivid blush. Often a more lasting flush brightens the malar region. In other subjects a death-like pallor is con- tinuous, and the skin assumes a sallow or clayey tint. The occurrence of more definite pigmenta- tion is discussed later in relation to the skin. Commonly, at least in advanced stages, some degree of cyanosis may be traced in the blueness of lip-edge, nose-tip, ears, and finger-ends. The skin may be markedly dry and harsh. Some degree of ichthyosis may be present. In many cases it is unduly moist and clammy (vide " Skin, Diseases of Sweat Glands "). The skeletonic architecture is extremely various. Every type of individual and, con- sequently, of thoracic form may be aff'ected. This fact must be kept definitely in view. There exists in some quarters a tendency to limit the occurrence of pulmonary tuberculosis to certain types of chest, or at least to magnify the frequency of its occurrence among such. This is incorrect; for the disease may show itself in any individual and in relation to any form of chest. None the less is it true that the chest is often long and narrow and flat. The neck may be conspicuously long, with prominent thyroid cartilage. The hands and feet tend to be long and thin, and, often enough, are clubbed at the ends. But the disease is not limited to the long and lank. Clinical Subdivision.—There is a marked dif- ference in the rate and progress of the disease in different cases, which justifies clinical sub- division : viz.—(1) Acute; (2) Subacute; (3) Chronic. While this is a handy plan of group- ing, we must bear in mind that we can only, in a relatively small number of instances, relegate the particular case to one of these groups. The great majority oscillate so much between acute- ness and chronicity that the proposed grouping is of limited value. The leading diff'erences in respect of clinical manifestation and rate of progress depend in large part on the avenue of infection. The differences are also dependent on the varying constitutions and conditions of life of individuals attacked. Such diff'erences will be considered later {vide p. 46). It will be convenient to discuss systematically the clinical phenomena in the following order :— 1. Lung Symptoms. 2. Physical Signs. 3. Constitutional Symptoms. 4. Complications. 5. Clinical Varieties and Progress. 1. Lung Symptoms These include—■ Cough.—Cough is the expression of irritation. The seat and source of irritation may be various. Most commonly the irritation exists within the respiratory apparatus; it may, however, be further afield (ear, gastro-intestinal tract, re- productive approaches), and in obscure cases this must be borne in mind. Within the re- spiratory apparatus the seat of irritation is generally at some point in the passages from the nostril to the alveoli. Certain areas of extra irritability have been recognised, e.g. the ary- teno-epiglottidean folds and the bifurcation of the trachea. The trachea itself appears to be de- finitely less reactive. The seat of irritation may be in the pleura or the lung structui'e itself. The source of irritation is frequently the absence of a sufficient supply of air. The cough may be interpreted as the prayer—or the groan —of the lung for more air. This is the cough which supervenes when the patient has been several hours in bed in a close, confined bed- room. Given an unlimited supply of fresh air, as under proper sanatory regime, this cough is seldom heard. The immediate cause of cough in many cases is the presence of expectoration within the passages. More especially is the cough likely to occur when the expectoration lies in relation to more irritable parts. Thus, for example, is explained the urgent cough on waking or getting up. The discharge has ac- cumulated during the comparative anaesthesia of sleep in the bronchi, trachea, and posterior part of the larynx, and is felt as an irritant on waking. Cough is a reflexly induced forced expiration, with closed glottis, the object being the removal of the irritant. In other instances cough is the expression of inflammatory irrita- tion, e.g. of the pleura. Cough is a good deal a matter of habit. Some persons cough little and gently, others frequently and noisily. It is in part an ex- pression of temperament, in part of ignorance. It is remarkable how patients can be trained to cease coughing, when they recognise the cough to be a mistake. To be effective the training must be associated with ample fresh air supplies. When tuberculous disease affects the larynx directly there is an immediate ground for cough of more definite nature. It is a good rule to examine the larynx of every coughing patient. The character of the cough varies much. ItLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 30 may be short, dry, hacking, harsh, noisy, paroxysmal, accompanied by little or much discharge. It is hardly possible to interpret exactly the various types of cough in relation to various types or stages of disease. Cough is often enough associated with vomiting—a distressing- incident, which, if repeated, necessarily interferes with the patient's nutrition. It seems likely that the associated vomiting is to be explained by an extension of nerve storm through the vagus. Expectoration. — All expectoration does not become sputum. In other words, in place of spitting, some patients swallow the discharge. This is commonly the case with children, and is frequent enough among delicate adults. The procedure is both dirty and dangerous. Further, all sputvim is not expectoration. Along with the discharge proper, there is mixed saliva, and frequently enough food-stuiTs, either from the stomach or mouth. The discharge is commonly effected by coughing. With some persons the discharge proceeds more quietly, welling up rather than coughed up. The quantity and character of the discharge vary greatly. (a) Quantity.—There may be none at all. This may be due to two causes. Either the patient swallows it or none is forthcoming, as in acute miliary tuberculosis. The quantity may range from a mere trace up to many ounces— it may be a pint or more—in the twenty-four hours. The mere amount of discharge has no certain relation to the gravity of disease. Thus in some acute varieties of disease, there may be little, if any. In other more chronic conditions, the expectoration may be considerable. None the less is it true that the continuous discharge of large quantities of expectoration is likely to be accompanied by loss of body-weight. (J)) Naked-eye Appearances. — The character of the discharge varies endlessly. It may be largely mucous, or may be frothy, or more dense and consistent or puriform. As it be- comes more compact, it tends to sink in water. It may be formless or more definitely rounded (nummiform). Such nummular sputum prob- ably comes from a vomica, or, it may be, a bronchiectatic cavity. In other instances it may not be easy to fix certainly the origin of the discharge. In a smaller number of cases, chalky concretions (lung calculi) are discharged from time to time. These are of varying size and hardness. They have their origin in caseat- ing foci, which have become calcareous through the deposition of phosphates and carbonates of calcium. They may occur from time to time in the same patient, and then cease altogether. The colour of the expectoration is various. It may be white, greyish, yellowish-grey, yellow; or through admixture with blood, it may be reddish. The admixture with blood may be partial, in which case the discharge is merely streaked or spotted with red ; or the blood may be intimately mixed, in which case the discharge may be reddish-brown or of rusty hue. In other cases the expectoration may be largely made up of blood {vide "Haemoptysis") The cause of the colour is of some interest. The red colour is easily explained where blood is present. In other cases the colour is probably due to the presence of micro-organisms. Thus the greenish colour would seem due to the bacillus pyocya- neus, while the yellowish tint has been traced to the bacillus aureus and squamosus, sarcina lutea, and others. The smell of tuberculous expectoration is mawkish, with a faintly aromatic character, recalling the odour of tuberculin. When the sputum is extracted and concentrated, this odour becomes more definite. (c) Microscopic Appearances.—The expectora- tion contains cell elements and other debris from the respiratory tract and lungs, and a variety of micro-organisms, more especially the tubercle bacillus. It need hardly be said that from the diagnostic point of view the last named is of first moment. It may be determinable when symptoms and physical signs are slight. Determination of Tubercle Bacillus.—One of the readiest clinical methods for this purpose is Gabbett's modification of the Ziehl-Neelsen method. The procedure is as follows : — Place with a needle a small quantity of sputum on a cover-glass, and press a second cover-glass gently over it so as to spread the sputum as a thin film. Separate the cover- glasses by sliding them apart, and lay them (sputum upwards) on a sheet of white paper. Allow the cover-glasses to dry, or gently heat them, and then, with the forceps, pass them three times slowly through the flame of a spirit lamp (to coagulate the film), taking care not to char the film. Drop the cover-glass (sputum downwards) into a watch-glass containing fuchsin solution which has been heated gently until it steams. After tivo minutes rinse cover-glass in water, and transfer to methyl blue solution for one minute, and thereafter rinse in water. If the film is quite blue, it may be mounted; but if red colour remains, replace cover-glass in methyl blue for a moment. When the film is blue, dry the upper surface of cover-glass, and mount in Farrant's medium or glycerine. If balsam be used, the blue film must be dried before mounting. The tubercle bacilli are stained red ; all other bacilli, cells, etc., are stained blue. The solutions used are as follows :— I. Fuchsin .... 1 part. 5 per cent solution of carbolic acid in distilled water . 100 parts. Absolute alcohol . . .10 parts. II. Methyl blue ... 1 part. 25 per cent solution of sul- phuric acid in distilled water . . . .100 parts.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 31 It is to be borne in mind that a negative examination does not afford negative proof, save in respect of the slide examined. In doubtful cases, a series of cover-glass preparations must be examined. If the result be negative, other examples of sputum should be examined from time to time. It is convenient in such cases to liquefy the expectoration. This has a double advantage ; it makes it more easily handled and permits sedimentation, and therefore con- centration, to occur. The process of liquefaction may be affected in a variety of ways. It is con- veniently done by gentle heat, e.g. exposure for an hour or two in a steam steriliser or similar arrangement. Or it may be hastened by the addition of an alkali, as in the method to be described for the determination of fibrous tissue. When liquefaction has been effected, the more solid elements may be separated by precipitation or, more rapidly, by means of the centrifuge. Cover-glass preparations are prepared as before from the sediment. When tubercle bacilli are scanty, the chance of finding tliem is thus immensely increased. Other Micro-Organisrnspresent. —These are nu- merous, and include streptococcus pyogenes, sta- phylococcus pyogenes aureus and albus, pneumo- coccus, bacillus pyocyaneus, bacillus tetragonus. They may be determined while the discharge is being examined for the tubercle bacillus. They are of considerable significance in relation to the clinical manifestations (mixed infections), and should, therefore, not be lost sight of. Cell Elements and Fibrous Tissue.—A variety of cells from the lining membrane of the mouth, respiratory passages, and alveoli may be present. Further, elastic fibre may be found. This is of importance as pointing to the progress of disin- tegration within the lung. Such disintegrative process is not certainly due to the tubercle bacillus, though most commonly it is so. Fibrous tissue may be determined also in the discharge from pulmonary abscess and gangrene. When present along with the tubercle bacillus, it points to a progressive process of tuberculous disintegration of lung. Determination of Fibrous Tissue.—The pres- ence of fibrous tissue is suggested to the naked eye by the recognition of greyish-yellow points or strings in the sputum. They may be deter mined more certainly by the following method (Fenwick). To a given quantity of sputum in a test-tube add a like quantity of a 10 per cent solution of caustic potash, and boil the mixture for a few minutes. Thereafter let sedimentation proceed from twelve to twenty-four hours. At the end of that time examine the sediment microscopi- cally. The caustic alkali clears up or dissolves everything except the fibrous tissue. If fibrous tissue elements are present, they are conspicuous as twisted strands or bundles of fibre, presenting dichotomous division. {d) Chemical Characters.—The expectoration consists of water in largest part and certain organic and inorganic products. The result of analysis necessarily varies a good deal in different samples. A commonly occurring sample may yield as follows : Water, 90-94 per cent; organic bodies, 5-9 per cent; inorganic, 0'7-0'9 per cent. The organic products include mucin, albumin, nuclein, fat, fatty acids, cholesterin, stearin, tyrosin, lecithin extractives, and, it may be, urea. The inorganic include chloride of sodium and phosphates. Alcoholic and glycerine extracts of tuberculous expectora- tion have toxic properties. The latter can digest coagulated albumin. Haemoptysis.—This does not occur in every case. Statistics (see article " Haemoptysis") have varied much with reference to the subject. Taking a large statistic, we may say that 60 per cent of such cases show hfemoptysis at one or other time. It is a remarkable fact in the experience of the writer, that hsemoptysis is a less frequent and less grave symptom of pulmonary tuberculosis under open-air methods of treatment than formerly. In respect of age incidence, it may occur at any time, but is certainly less common in children and young persons before puberty. The amount of blood discharged varies much. There may be a mere specking or streaking or staining or any quantity up to a pint or two. The colour of the blood varies too, from bright florid to various shades of red-brown and black- brown. The blood may be discharged alone, either fluid and frothy or clotted. At other times it is intimately mingled with the expec- toration. After severe haemorrhage the expec- toration is apt to remain tinged with blood for days or longer. It is not infrequent to find that a pronounced haemorrhage is heralded for some days by slighter tingeing or streaking of the expectoration. Hsemoptysis may occur at any stage of pulmonary tuberculosis. It is frequently one of the earliest manifestations. So true is this that, in the absence of other suflScient explana- tion, such as mitral stenosis, or evident lesion of mouth, nose, or throat, the occurrence of hsemoptysis justifies the provisional assumption that the patient is tuberculous. The frequency of its early advent gave rise to the false doctrine of phthisis ab hcemoptoe, which we may discount as thoroughly fallacious on clinical, anatomical, and experimental grounds. The causes which lead to the occurrence of haemoptysis at various stages of pulmonary tuberculosis have been considered under " Hsemoptysis " (vol. iv. p. 38). The exciting causes of hsemoptysis are of interest. There may be no apparent cause. Thus it occurs frequently enough during sleep. This is of immense significance in relation to the rational treatment of the disease. I do not believe that grave hsemorrhages are likely toLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBEECULOSIS 32 occur during sleep if a sufficient supply of air be available. Out of some 600 treated on open- air lines I have not seen a case. Frequently the haemoptysis is preceded by a feeling of tightness or oppression about the chest, which is relieved after bleeding has supervened. In other instances there is a history of strain or forced effort of some kind or undue excitement. The patient experiences a tickling sensation in the throat, which leads to cough. This is accompanied by a feeling of vi^armth in the line of the trachea, and a sweetish taste about the palate and mouth. On expectoration the patient finds to his surprise that he has dis- charged blood. What is the eflfect of the haemoptysis'? In many cases it relieves. The patient feels much more comfortable. The sense of oppression disappears. Sometimes the haamorrhage gradu- ally tails away and disappears, not to return; in other instances the haemoptysis may be repeated several times. Consequential anaemia may thus result either from repeated htemoptysis or more acutely from a single large haemorrhage. This may seriously prejudice the issue. Or a smart reactionary pyrexia may supervene. Some degree of pyrexic disturbance is common enough—though not constant—after haemop- tysis. In sudden, copious haemorrhage, the patient may show alarming suffocative symptoms and may even die of suffocation. Pain mid Local Discomfort.—This is a most uncertain symptom. It is frequently absent in the worst cases; throughout tfieir entire course there may be no complaint of the sort. In other instances it is a conspicuous and recurrent feature. The symptom is of different kinds and degrees. It may consist of a feeling of oppression or tiredness throughout the chest; or it may be described as tickling. In other cases actual pain is reported, of dragging, scrap- ing, hacking, tearing, cutting, or stabbing character. The pain is commonly intermittent, but may be constant. In either case it tends to be increased on effort, deep respiration, coughing or laughing. The cause and seat of discomfort are worthy of careful consideration. Thus the irritation may be referable to the thoracic wall and its attachments. The skin and muscles are some- times hyperaesthetic, and this may be due to neuritis. Neuralgic manifestations (intercostal, etc.) may be similarly traced. The bones (sternum, clavicle, ribs, vertebrae) and cartilages may be unduly sensitive, as on direct percussion. Pain at the lower part of the chest, increased on coughing, is frequently the expression of strain on the attachments of the diaphragm and other muscles. Such a condition may afford definite indication for sedative measures in re- spect of the cough. Pain of scraping, dragging, cutting, or stabbing character is probably of pleural origin. At the same time, it is worthy of remark that not every pleuritic manifestation is accompanied by pain. From the state of the pleura of tuberculous patients, revealed post- mortem, it is manifest that in the majority of such attacks, pain must be wanting. Pleuritic pain is likely to be increased on respiration and coughing. It may be referred to almost any part of the thoracic wall from apex to base. Sometimes it is referred to the abdomen, pos- sibly when the diaphragmatic pleura is especially implicated. In pneumothorax the pain is often intense, sudden in onset, and either localised or more widespread. Pain of tearing or gripping nature may depend on straining or giving of adhesions. Hacking pain may depend on some of the preceding causes or be due to iiTitation about the larynx or bronchi. The more general sense of oppression may be referable to congestive states of lung and the blocking of the respira- tory passages with secretion. The lung itself appears to be little sensitive. The acutest pro- cess, e.g. rapid dissemination of tubercle, is probably unaccompanied by pain, and this is similarly wanting in relation to advancing lung disintegration. It may be convenient to refer here to the frequency of myotatic irritability. The muscles, apart from tenderness on percussion, may be unduly irritable. Marked fibrillation follows direct percussion. Immediately at the point of percussion a small prominence appears—the so-called "myoidema." These phenomena be- come more marked with the progress of the disease. They occur, however, in relation to other wasting conditions. Dyspnoea is often complained of. More commonly its presence is admitted by the patient when questioned. In many instances it is hardly, if at all, present. Often enough nothing of the sort is experienced, save on going up hill and the like or on making effort of other kind. This is a paradoxical symptom, and is not always manifest where a priori it might be looked for. Doubtless individual nervous irri- tability plays a part in its determination. It is especially present where the lung is rapidly and diffusely involved. Thus in acute miliary dissemination it is a marked feature, although physical signs may be sparse. Similarly during congestive exacerbations of a less acute process it becomes conspicuous. Dyspnoea is intensified under pyrexic conditions. In more chronic conditions it is likely to be present in proportion to the amount of fibrous change; on this account it is frequently a marked feature in stonemason's phthisis. It is marked in rela- tion to so-called compensatory emphysema. Elsewhere the writer has pointed out that the term "compensatory emphysema" is on this account misleading. In presence of a diseased condition characterised by dyspnoea, it is doubtful compensation to have developed an-LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 33 other process whose leading expression is also dyspnoea. " Complementary" it may be, but hardly " compensatory." Dyspnoea may further be the expression of a complicating pleurisy with elFusion. In more urgent fashion, dyspnoea may appear suddenly through the production of a pneumo- thorax. The possibility of this accident must be anticipated, especially in cases which have pro- ceeded to vomica formation. Severe dyspnoea may be also induced by plugging (thrombosis, embolism) of a division of the pulmonary artery in relation to the stagnating circulation. From time to time phthisical patients suffer from paroxysmal exacerbations of dyspnoea through the supervention of asthma. Care must be taken that in the treatment of the one process the other is not lost sight of. Hoarseness.—Apart from actually tuberculous lesion of the larynx, patients are apt to manifest more or less disturbance of voice. In some instances it amounts to passing huskiness or hoarseness; in others it is rather a feebleness of voice with lack of clearness. It is an expression of reduced respiratory capacity, secondary anaemia, and general enfeeblement. In some cases it is an early and characteristic symptom. Laryngoscopic examination may show little, save pallor, lack of vitality, imperfect movement of cords, some degree of subacute or chronic catarrh. These, which constitute what has been doubtfully described as the pretuberculous condition of the larynx, are not insignificant. They merge into actually tuber- culous lesions, which are referred to later. There may be true paralysis of one or other cord, dependent on lesion of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the corresponding side (especially right, in relation to thickening and adherence of right apical pleura and pressure on nerve). It is a good rule to examine the larynx of every patient suffering from, or suspected of, pulmonary tuberculosis. Thereby the cause of a tickling, irritating cough may be discovered and rendered amenable to treatment. 2. Physical Signs In carrying out the physical examination of a patient, too much attention can hardly be devoted to inspection and palpation. Careful- ness in the use of these methods reveals far more as to the presence and distribution and duration of disease than is generally supposed. Visible and palpable defects of chest architecture either predisposing to, or dependent on, disease are frequent and significant. Of similar im- portance is limitation of thoracic excursion over one or other area. Again, local loss of muscular fulness and the occurrence of lines and furrows afford testimony to local disease, which is often missed. In the refinement of other methods, it may be feared that delicate precision in in- spection is sometimes neglected. VOL. VI In relation to pei-mssion, the normal limits of lung resonance, both superior and inferior, must be recalled. More especially, careful percussion of the supraclavicular triangle and the corre- sponding area posteriorly must be practised. Lung resonance should be sought for an inch and a half or more above the clavicle on each side. Percussion must also be practised with care laterally. The axillary areas are worthy of special attention. Changes are particularly common here in young subjects. Hyper-reso- nance is to be noted as carefully as percussion dulness. Patchy hyper-resonance is highly significant. The emphysematous change to which the hyper-resonance is referable is fre- quently complementary to consolidation, which may itself be directly obscured by the evidence of emphysematous change. In practising auscultation, the quality and character of the respiratory murmur are espe- cially to be studied. There is sometimes mani- fested a tendency to dwell too exclusively on the presence or absence of accompaniments. This is a mistake. Grave disease is frequently present without any accompaniments whatso- ever. Changes in relation to the respiratory murmur are of infinite variety and subtlety. The respiratory murmur should be carefully analysed—resolved into its two phases of in- spiration and expiration, and a judgment passed on each as to quality, length, etc., beginning preferably with expiration. Such analysis is of infinite significance in relation to diagnosis. The determination of accompaniments will be rendered easier and more exact if the prelimi- nary determination of quality and character of respiratory murmur be careful. Thereafter the state of vocal resonance will be found to afford important corroborative or corrective testimony. The physical signs vary endlessly under different conditions and in different stages of the disease. It will be convenient, therefore, to group them as follows:— {a) Physical Signs of Advancing Consolidation. (h) Physical Signs of Vomica Formation. (c) Physical Signs of Insipient Tuberculosis. (d) Physical Signs of Cicatrising Lung. (e) Physical Signs of Miliary Tuberculosis. The physical signs of pleurisy, pneumothorax and hydro- (pyo-) pneumothorax are considered elsewhere. (a) Physical Signs of Advanciiig Consolida- tion.—Inspection may determine chest deforma- tion, either general or local. General deforma- tion is illustrated by what is described as the paralytic thorax. This form is common enough among the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis. It must be understood, however, that tubercu- losis occurs frequently apart from this, in chests without evident initial departure from the normal. The so-called paralytic chest (badly termed phthinoid) is conspicuously long and34 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS flat. The bony structures, sternum, ribs, costal cartilages, and clavicle are well defined. The intercostal spaces and natural fossse (supra- and infra-clavicular) are commonly deep. Louis's angle is prominent. The epigastric (costal) angle is acute. The scapulae tend to project from the sides of the thorax in wing-like fashion (alar, pterygoid). Localised flattening may occur at any point. It is especially common at one or other apex, or both. It may be found at the bases. The two sides should be compared carefully, anteriorly and posteriorly, from side to side and from above downwards. The musculature of the two sides may be found variously altered. Very often local atrophy of muscles may be determined. Associated with local flattening, displacement of bones may occur. Thus the sternal end of the clavicle may be more conspicuous on one side—fre- quently on the side opposite that where most retraction has occurred. Inspection may further detect alteration in respect of movement. The type of respiration may be altered. More especially there is apt to be diminution of movement. This may be general. The excursion of the chest may be limited. There may be imperfect descent of the diaphragm — insufficient diaphragmatic re- spiration. The defect of movement may be localised to one side and to one area. Thus ins|ifiicient apical movement is common. This may be unilateral or bilateral; or the insiiffi- ciency may be basal. Palpation affords confirmatory and supple- mentary evidence in respect of form and move- ment. The extent and limits of the deficiency are more accurately gauged. Vocal fremitus will probably be found modified. As a rule, in ordinary consolidation, the fremitus is definitely increased; in others, particularly where the pleura is much implicated (thickening, ad- hesions), the vocal fremitus is reduced. Percussion elicits dulness over a greater or smaller area. The extent and degree of dulness vary with the distribution and amount of con- solidation. Dulness is probably to be made out at one or both apices, but it may be distributed anywhere and anyhow (lobular, lobar). Corre- sponding portions of the chest (apices, axillfe, bases, and so on) will be carefully compared. Frequently, areas of hyper-resonance may be dis- tinguished—complementary emphysema (badly termed compensatory). These should be noted with extreme care, as such hyper-resonance tends to obscure conditions of consolidation with which the emphysema is associated. In some cases the hyper-resonance is actually tympanitic or subtympanitic. This may be due to relaxation of lung tissue or to tracheal vibration, if percussion over a consolidated apex be directed towards the trachea, or it may be due to the presence of a vomica. The signs of vomica formation will be considered presently. Auscultation reveals changes in the respiratory murmur, probably accompaniments of some kind, and change in vocal resonance. Thus the respiratory murmur is variously modified from the purely vesicular. It may be actually bronchial. In some cases it approximates this merely—broncho-vesicular—both vesicular and bronchial quality being present. Or the change may be detected in the expiration only, which is prolonged and blowing. In other cases the alteration amounts rather to pronounced harsh- ness, or, again, to marked feebleness. Accom- paniments are frequently audible, especially crepitations (mucous rales). These may be many or few. They may be fine, medium, or coarse. As a rule, the more the discharge, the more abundant and the coarser and more bubbling are the accompaniments. Rhonchi are often present also. Vocal resonance is commonly increased, but may be diminished or absent, as when the pleura is thickened. Pleural friction may be determined from time to time. It must be borne in mind that pleurisy occurs frequently without audible friction. Accentuation of heart sounds is commonly determinable over a greater or less area on the affected side. (6) Physical Signs of Vomica Formation.— There is commonly some evidence of consolidation (v.s.). The more positive signs of excavation are obtained on percussion and auscultation. On percussion, the resonance is frequently tympan- itic. This tympanitic percussion sound is more strictly musical than ordinary percussion sounds. It may on this account be spoken of as a note, while percussion results in general are advan- tageously termed sounds. This tympanitic note alters in pich under certain conditions. Thus its pitch is raised, if, while percussion is practised, the patient open his mouth (Win- trich), or inspire deeply (Friedreich), or rise from the recumbent to the sitting or standing posture (Gerhardt). Percussion may further yield a cracked-pot sound (bruit de pot fele). It must, however, be borne in mind that the occurrence either of tympanites or of cracked- pot sound is not confined to vomicae. They may be determined sometimes in relation to relaxed conditions of lung and yielding chest walls. Auscultation may reveal low-pitched bronchial (cavernous) respiration. Actually amphoric re- spiration may be present, especially when the cavity is large and smooth-walled. Sometimes the respiration is of changing or metamorphos- ing variety. That is to say, iiis2:)iration com- mences of hai'sh vesicular type, and, as it continues, assumes the cavernous or amphoric type. The respiration seems to expand in freedom, as if some obstruction had been over- come. If accompaniments be present, as is often the case, they are commonly bubbling35 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS crepitations, with a metallic or sub-metallic (so- called " consonating ") ring. Vocal resonance is frequently increased to the extent of pecto- riloquy, i.e. articulate sounds are conducted to the ear with much delicacy. This is usually best determined in relation to whispered speech (whispering pectoriloquy). What has been termed post-tussic suction or the india-rubber ball sound may be discovered sometimes when the patient coughs during auscultation. Follow- ing the cough, there is audible a high-pitched inspiratory sound, which has been attributed to a suction action, dependent on the elasticity of the consolidated tissue round the vomica. Fvirther, in relation to large vomicae with abundant secretion, some degree of succussion may be sought. Succussion is, however, more characteristic of hydro- (pyo-) pneumothorax {q.v.). Similarly, Trousseau's bell or anvil phenomenon, which is characteristic of pneumo- thorax {q.v.), is also occasionally described in relation to large vomicae. When the vomica is large, and especially when it is on the left side, cardio-pneumonic murmurs, systolic in time, may sometimes be heard. At other times clicking accompaniments are present in relation to the systolic phase. (c) Physical Signs of Incipient Tuberculosis.— The early determination of pulmonary tuber- culosis by physical signs affords scope for great refinement of methods. In proportion to the earliness of the process, the physical signs are slighter; they are, consequently, apt to be missed. Reliable skill can only be obtained after prolonged and careful practice. Auscultation affords the more delicate tests. The auscultatory phenomena include slight modifications of the normal respiratory murmur, e.g. enfeeblement, harshness, interrupted or cog- wheel or jerky respiration, prolonged expiration, blowing expiration (broncho-vesicular). When the respiration is actually bronchial, the process is something more than incipient merely. Such phenomena are of special significance when they are localised. Thus enfeeblement of respiration, when universal, may point to bad habit of respiration or other general defect. Similarly, universal harshness may be due to bronchial catarrh, and so with the other modifications which have been mentioned. The same phenomena when localised to one or other portion of the chest are indicative of local damage to lung, and in the great majority of instances such local damage is of tuberculous nature. In like manner, the presence of localised accompaniments is significant, e.g. crepitations, rhonchi. The presence of crepi- tations here and there affords strong corrobora- tive evidence ; their detection should lead to a most careful scrutiny of the breath sounds throughout the chest. Definite crepitation is not likely to be present without alteration of respiratory murmur. The latter is frequently missed by the unpractised ear. In the same way, rhonchi, when localised, e.g. to an apex, are of greater significance than when generally distributed. In the latter case they may testify to the presence of bronchitis, while in the former they mark a patch of diseased lung- tissue round which a catarrhal process lingers. Percussion yields results of importance even at early stages. All portions of the lung must be examined. Corresponding portions must be compared with care; more especially the two apices must be tested comparatively in respect of percussion sound and extent of resonant area. In testing the apices from this point of view, in addition to practising percussion anteriorly, laterally, and posteriorly, it is serviceable to percuss vertically from above downwards, the pleximeter finger being disposed in curved fashion over the upper limit of the lung from back to front. Thereby it will be found that changes in resonance dependent on early apical consolidation are more certainly revealed. Lastly, hyper-resonance occurring in patchy areas must always be regarded as suspicious, even if dulness be less certainly determined. Palpation and inspection may indicate slight degrees of flattening or retraction and local in- sufficiency of movement which may be significant. Repeated examinations are often necessary at the earliest stages. The results obtained at each examination should be carefully noted at the time and compared with the results of subsequent examination. By such means exact- ness of early diagnosis is ensured. Having regard to the issues involved, too great care cannot be devoted to the diagnosis at this stage. The physical signs will be interpreted always in light of other manifestations. Further, the differences which exist normally between the two sides must not be overlooked. Thus, at the right apex, the respiratory sounds are commonly more pronounced, and expiration prolonged and even blowing. The difference in anatomical limits and relations on the two sides must be kept in view. {d) Physical Signs of Cicatrising Lung.— The phenomena are more conspicuous when the left side is involved. Inspection and palpation may reveal considerable deformation of thorax. The affected side may be found flattened and smaller, in whole or in part. The anatomical fossae and interspaces may be unusually marked. There may be undue exposure of other organs, e.g. heart and great vessels, through retraction of lung. Cardiac pulsation may be visible over a wider area. Marked pulsation may be observed in relation to the pulmonary artery (less commonly in relation to aorta). The vibration produced by closure of the pulmonary valves may be evident on palpation. There is frequently evidence of displacement of organs. For example, the heart may be drawn upwards and to the left; the diaphragm and abdominalLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 36 Chart I. organs may be drawn upwards; the vertebral column may become twisted laterally. On percussion, there is more or less extensive dulness according to the distribution of the process. On auscultation, there may be diminu- tion of respiratory murmur, absence of accom- paniments, and reduced vocal resonance (the pleura is commonly thickened). Often enough, however, the breathing is definitely bronchial, accompaniments (rhonchi, crepi- tations) are pre- sent, and vocal resonance is in- creased. The other lung is generally more or less emphy- sematous. (e) Physical Signs of Miliary Tub ere ulosis. — These may be few and far from characteristic. Indeed, a most striking fact in relation to the condition is the disproportion be- tween physical signs and the gravity of the symptoms. Inspec- tion reveals marked dyspnoea—hurried, shallow respiration, with active alse nasi. On percussion little may be detected. Commonly there is hyper-resonance—perhaps tympanitic. This is frequently determined anteriorly. In other cases, patchy areas of dulness may be discovered. On auscultation, the rapid, shallow breathing will be again noted over the whole chest. The breath soimds are frequently marked by ac- companiments, especially rhonchi and bubbling or creaking crepitations; or the breath sounds are conspicuously feeble, or, again, harsh and even bronchial. Friction is sometimes detected. Along with signs of the more acute process, there may be evidence of an older localised affection, e.g. at one or other apex. Spirometry.—The vital capacity of tubercu- lous lungs is reduced. This is determined by reckoning the volume of air which, after forced inspiration, is expelled by forced expiration. It may be measured by means of Hutchinson's spirometer. The degree of reduction varies much in different instances and may amount to as much as 50 per cent of the normal capacity. Rontgen Bays.—Illumination by means of Rontgen rays is serviceable in diagnosis. The application of the rays is considered on p. 49. 3. Constitutional Symptoms These include— Pyrexia. — The temperature is extremely variable. For long periods the temperature (taken two, three, or four-hourly) may be found normal or subnormal, and this even when symptoms and physical signs suggest present activity (see Chart I.). At other times—it is not always evident why—the temperature may become elevated, the pyrexic wave assuming the remittent or intermittent type, less commonly the continued type (see Chart III.). Because -Showing uniform temperature of 97'-98'4° F. lasting for months in patient with abundant physical signs of tuberculous condensation and moisture on both sides (open-air treatment). of this variableness, which shows itself from hour to hour as well as from day to day, it is of importance that the temperature be taken both regularly and frequently. In all cases the temperature should be taken two or three times daily; in many instances it may be taken oftener with great advantage. It is not uncommon to find in patients who are doing well an uniform temperature of 97°- 98'4° F. without the slightest rise for months. This apparently subnormal wave is established commonly when patients are placed under the rational (open-air) line of treatment (Chart I.). Under such conditions, it is remarkable how rapidly the swinging pyrexic wave is replaced by the almost straight line. I have frequently had hourly observations made in such cases and found the uniform temperature undisturbed. In other cases the temperature shows a sub- febrile wave (see Chart II.). In the morning, and perhaps throughout the greater part of the day, the record is normal. Towards evening, however, or it may be in the afternoon—more rarely in the morning—the temperature may reach 99°-100-5° F. Such sub-febrile waves are common enough in subacute and chronic con- ditions, treated on protective lines, with in- sufficient aeration. Or the pyrexia may be more pronounced. A more or less continued elevation may be registered several degrees above the normal (see Chart III.). Still more frequently a re-LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS k22 2i IZ IZ /U 10 . ^^1 '■^ Chart II.—Showing sub-febrile course of temperature in case of bilateral pulmonary tuberculosis with physical signs indicative of considerable disintegration. IS Iff t f1- 41- \ T n Rap Ikl til J- I ■«« Chart III.—Showing more or less continued pyrexia in patient with wide involvement of both lungs, more particularly of one base, simulating acute pneumonia but lasting for weeks. JanuarJ/ Ji^sp Cham IV.—Illustrative of reactionary pyrexia in relation to recurrent haemorrhage (temperature before and afterwards being continuously normal). The loss in weight was also noteworthy.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 38 mittent type is established, the temperature swinging from shghtly above to several degrees above the normal; or an intermittent type, the temperature swinging from the subnormal (per- haps 96"5° F.) to several degrees above the Chart V.—Showing intermittent type of temperature in patient witli widespread bilateral disease. normal (varieties of hectic). (See Chart V.) The opposing limits are thus widely separated, from about 96°-104° F. From time to time the different types may be established in relation to the same individual. Chart VI.—Illustrative of pyrexic disturbance produced by injection of 1 mgr. tuberculin for diagnostic purposes in patient in whom tubercle bacilli were unobtainable owing to absence of expectoration. The cause of the pyrexia is not quite clear. Clinically, it is not always determinable. It seems most reasonable to seek for it in the absorption of soluble toxins produced by the tubercle bacillus. And in support of this view may be cited the pyrexial disturbance pi'oduced by the introduction of tuberculin (see Chart VI.) and the violently swinging temperature in miliary dissemination throughout the lung. On the other hand, it must be recalled how fi'equently tubercle is present in the lung, in considerable ac- tivity, as judged by physical signs and expectora- tion, and simi- larly in other organs, without a trace of pyrexia from day to day. The presence of other organisms (streptococcus, staphyloc o c c u s) must be borne in mind, and the pyrexia attribut- ed, in part at least, to the mixed infection. The temperature chart sometimes recalls the chart of pyaemia not a little. This view is emphasised by the remarkably rapid change which is produced in the type of temperature, when the patient is placed under conditions of hyperaeration. In interpret- ing the tempera- ture record from day to day, it is to be borne in mind that the tuberculous pa- tient is unduly sensitive to dis- turbing influ- ences. Excite- ment (even the visits of friends), fatigue, worry, gastro- intestinal irritation, onset of menses, carious teeth, and the like, may each be sufficient to cause considerable per- turbation in the temperature wave. More pro- nounced pertur- bations suggest extension or complication, which must be sought for. A fresh focus of pulmonary disease may be found, with increased absorption of toxins (c/. the elevation of temperature induced by injecting even small doses of tuberculin into the tubercu- lous patient). Or there may be a miliary dis-LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 39 semination of tubercle throughout the lungs or still more widely. Or there may be secondary involvement of other organs, e.g. the intestine. Unduly low temperature is no less worthy of consideration. It may be associated with grave circulatory depression, as at the downward dip in the intermittent type. It may be significant of shock or collapse, as sometimes in pnevimo- thorax. It may be associated with hsemorrhage. In this latter instance it may be succeeded by a reactionary pyrexia (see Chart IV.). Emanation. — This is a classic symptom (phthisis, consumption). It may be one of the earliest noted. The patient remarks his clothes are too big for him. The loss is not confined to the adipose tissues; it is notably present in relation to muscles. Doubtless all tissues suffer more or less. The loss in fat is especially apparent in young and stout subjects, who lose their natural roundness. The loss in muscle is apparent by the flattening of muscular promi- nences, and flabbiness. The muscles are unduly irritable to direct percussion and are function- ally feebler. Along with the other muscles, the heart tends to get smaller. The emaciation may be irregularly distributed. Thus the limbs or trunk may be especially reduced, while the face remains full. As the patient says, " his face is the best part of him." The process may advance progressively from week to week, till the process of skeletonisation is nearly complete and the patient is almost reduced to skin and bones. The cause of advancing emaciation is doubtless the tuberculous and, perhaps, other toxins. These act (1) by producing anorexia, gastric derangement, and consequent defective nutrition, and (2) by producing pyrexia, with resultant increase of tissue metabolism {cf. the increased discharge in the urine of phosphates, urea, urates). Experimentally, the establishment of an advancing marasmus has been effected by the injection of extracts from tuberculous ex- pectoration and filtered bouillon from cultures of the tubercle bacilli. In addition, as influencing the loss of weight, diarrhoea, sweating, and haemorrhages must be borne in mind. Gain in weight is a most satisfactory indica- tion of improvement. Such increase may take place, while pyrexia continues, when the patient is placed under better hygienic conditions. During rational treatment the gain is frequently phenomenal, amounting to 20-50 lbs. Even more significant than gain in weight is improve- ment in the size and tone of muscles. Ancemia.—The patients tend to be pallid, earthy, or sallow. There is languor and de- bility, and, in women, less or more pronounced amenorrhcea. There is to all appearance a secondary anaemia. It is frequently extreme in relation to the mucous membrane of the palate; but it is often apparent rather than real. Systematic examination of the blood in several hundred cases has not revealed a certain rule. The red blood corpuscles are frequently enough less in number, but in the majority of instances not to a great extent, and they are sometimes actually increased. In qiiite early cases re- duction is oftener observed. The amount of haemoglobin is similarly uncertainly influenced. The mean haemoglobin value is much the same among phthisical as among non-phthisical sub- jects. The anaemic aspect is remarkably re- covered from—it may be in a week or two— when protective methods of treatment are re- placed by the open-air method. In the earlier stages the leucocytes are not increased. Later, more particularly in pyrexial conditions, some degree of leucocytosis is deter- minable. It is especially evident in presence of mixed infection, while contrariwise it seems to be absent in acute dissemination of tubercle. This difference is not without diagnostic value. Tubercle bacilli are seldom discoverable in the blood. Circulatory Disturbance.—Rapidity of pulse is an early and characteristic featui-e. The rapidity is often apart from, and out of pro- portion to, elevation of temperature. Blood pressure is lowered, as is evidenced by the reduced tension of the pulse. With the progress of the disease, the pulse gets softer. The vessels tend to be dilated. From the prognostic point of view, a slow pulse is of good omen. The cardiac force is reduced. The heart gets smaller, save in presence of fibroid phthisis, when the right heart is likely to be enlarged, owing to increase of resistance in the pulmonary circuit. Circulatory disturbance is further manifested by the tendency to rapid change of colour, local flushing, which comes and goes {e.g. malar flush). The peripheral circulation is frequently sluggish. The hands and feet are apt to be cold. On the other hand, actual cyanosis is not, as a rule, conspicuous. The finger-nails, ears, and lips may be bluish, but profound cyanosis is uncommon. The chief cause of the circulatory disturb- ance is the tuberculous toxin, which acts as a circulatory depressant and vaso-dilator. In pyrexic conditions, the direct action of the elevated temperature on the heart muscle must be considered. The pronounced tachycardia present in some cases has been attributed to pressure on the vagus by enlarged and caseating bronchial glands. Some have traced it to pleuro- pericardial inflammation. Progressive Enfeeblement.—With the advance of the disease, the patient becomes physically unfit. This is manifested by an undue sense of tiredness, even after sleep, and disinclination for work. Complaint may be made of weakness of back or limbs, or, again, of intellectual dis- ability. Such symptoms show themselves quite early in the disease. They cannot, therefore,LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 40 be wholly attributed to the fever and disturb- ance of nutrition; rather are they to be regarded as part expression of the systemic intoxication, whose eifects we have already considered in relation to circulation and other functions. On the other hand, it is remarkable how many patients continue to work hard in every line of life, when already the disease has played fearful havoc with the constitution. Gastro-intesti7ml Disturbance. — This is fre- quent. Indeed, loss of appetite, navisea, and digestive difficulty are often the first symptoms present. So true is this that intractable dyspepsia ought to raise a suspicion of tubercu- losis. The leading feature of the disturbance is delay in the digestive process. In the later stages, this is to be attributed to deficient muscular activity, lowered circulation, and insufficient HCl secretion, as effects of the toxins. At the earlier stages, probably the toxins are responsible in part; but much must be attri- buted to the unhygienic life commonly led by the patients. Proof of this is afforded by the rapid—almost immediate—disappearance of the symptoms on open-air treatment being adopted. Vomiting is common. It occurs sometimes in relation to the taking of food. In most cases, however, it is independent of meals. In either case, it is usually preceded by cough. Some patients experience after the taking of food a tickling irritation which precipitates cough (Magenhusten). Others, apart from taking of food, are seized with a violent—often paroxysmal — cough, which is succeeded by vomiting (toux ^metisante). The vomiting is not associated with nausea. The cough is succeeded by the vomiting so closely as to suggest a close causal relationship. Most probably they are both dependent on undue irritability of the vagus. Stimulus of one set of terminals extends its influence to other branches. The initial irritation may have its seat in pharynx, larynx, or stomach. Perhaps the trunk of the vagus is pressed on, as by enlarged glands. It would seem reason- able to admit, however, that the vomiting may sometimes be the result of direct mechanical disturbance through the violence of the cough, just as the woman's bladder may be emptied. Some observers have reported tenderness over the coeliac plexus. The bowel is frequently sluggish. Indeed, apart from complication, constipation is the common habit. The causes which lead to diarrhoea are considered under the head of complications. Siveatiwj has been always regarded a char- acteristic symptom. It is esteemed as such by the layman. And yet it is absent in some cases throughout, and it need hardly be present in any if a thorough-going open-air method is adopted. At the Victoria Hospital for Con- sumption, Edinburgh, sweating is of the rarest occurrence after the first week of residence. Patients are frequently admitted, who have sweated so profusely that their clothes have been changed several times in the night, and in a few days' time the symptom disappears. This fact has important bearings on the explanation of the symptoms. As usually occurring, the sweating is reported especially in relation to sleep, both by night and day. The patient wakes in a drenching perspira- tion, with a feeling of chill. Frequently the sweating occurs contemporaneously with a fall of temperature. But it may occur apart from pyrexia, and it is frequently an early manifestation. The most obvious explanation of its occur- rence is that it is dependent on absorption of toxins. Such toxic perspiration is recognised in relation to other diseases. The toxins may act directly on sweat-centres, or stimulation of sweat-centres may result from exhaustion of the respiratory centre, with consequent accumulation of COj in the blood. If the accumulation of COg in the blood be admitted as of causal import, I suspect that the ac- cumulation is in large part due to the protective measures usually practised and the consequent defective aeration. This conclusion is forced on one by the phenomenal disappearance of sweating, when hyperaeration is established. 4. Complications These are numerous. They result from—(1) Carriage of tubercle bacilli to other parts {e.g. larynx, intestines). (2) Activity of circulatory toxins {e.g. waxy disease). (3) Activity of other organisms (mixed infection). (4) Interference with functional activity of various organs through pyrexia and other causes. Reference has been already made incidentally to the occurrence of some. It is not easy—if, indeed, it be correct—to draw a line of distinction between symptoms and complications. For the present purpose it will be convenient to review the latter in relation to the several systems. (a) Respiratory.—The nose may be the seat of tuberculous disease. It is not uncommon to find tubercle bacilli in the nasal discharge. Lying in contact with the lining membrane, this may lead to secondary tuberculous afi"ec- tions, which may extend variously, e.g. along Eustachian tube. Frequently enough the nostril is affected directly from the front by means of contagion carried on the finger. In this case the anterior portions, including the septum, are more likely involved. Either tuberculous ulceration or lupus may be present. The larynx is very commonly affected by tuberculosis. This is likely to occur in advanced stages of pulmonary disease, but is frequent at all stages. The larynx should be examined in every case. Short of actual diseaseLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 41 there may be determinable undue pallor, flaccid- ity or catarrhal condition of the parts with func- tional disability, which may be the forerunner of tuberculosis. For the latter infection is in the great majority of cases secondary to the pulmo- nary lesion. The devitalised tissues are easily disturbed by infective sputum, which lies in contact especially with the posterior surfaces by night and at resting times. A doubly vicious influence is exerted. Chemically, the expectora- tion exerts unhealthy influence on the tissues, through the presence of toxins, and, bacterio- logically, the tubercle bacillus may obtain a suitable nidus in the feebly resisting structures. Primary laryngeal tuberculosis is much less common. The parts especially affected are the interarytenoid fold, the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, and the posterior ends of the true cords ; but any part may be attacked. The process is, at first, infiltrative and, later, ulcerative. The symptoms include all degrees of aphonia, from mere huskiness to loss of voice, pain, dyspnoea. When the epiglottis is affected, dysphagia is apt to appear, and frequently forms a most distressing feature. Lupus of the larynx occurs as a rare phenomenon. The trachea and bronchi may be affected secondarily by tuberculous deposits, leading to ulcerative changes. The smaller bronchi are frequently disturbed, and tuberculous bronchitis and peribronchitis ensue. Apart from this, simple bronchitis may complicate the disease from time to time. It is not surprising to find the tubes in an unhealthy state, apart from actual infection, through the constant presence of more or less irritating discharge. The lung may suffer in a variety of ways. Some degree of emphysema is generally present. This is the result of forced expiratory effort in coughing. Elsewhere I have indicated reasons for adopting the name "complementary" rather than "compensatory." The symptoms are con- sidered in their proper place {vide "Emphysema," p. 73). The latter frequently obscure those of the associated tuberculosis. It is desirable to accentuate the significance of patchy areas of emphysema as a sign contributory to the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. Pneumo- nokoniosis may have been the starting-point of the process. Though it is not an universal rule, the tendency is for the infiltrative con- solidation produced by dusty occupations to become secondarily tuberculous through inocula- tion (vide " Pneumonokoniosis "). Gangrene is not a common complication ; it does, however, occasionally occur. Acute pneumonia supervenes often enough in patients who have tuberculous lungs. Indeed, the weakened lung would appear to afford especial nidus for the pneumo- coccus. Except for the superadded difficulty in diagnosis, owing to the pre-existing consolida- tion, the phenomena do not differ from those commonly met with in pneumonia. The course of the pneumonia is not necessarily aggravated; contrariwise, it sometimes appears unusually light. The effect on the tuberculous lung is various. In many cases no effect is determin- able. Sometimes the tuberculosis is awakened to fresh activity and the patient is sent more quickly down the hill. Sometimes the tuber- culous process actually seems benefited by the attack. So-called hroncho-pneumonia signifies in most instances an exacerbation and extension of the tuberculous process. From this point of view it is of first importance. The disease may assume from the first a broncho-pneumonic character, or a previously quiescent process may assume it later. In either case the progress may be very rapid. The pleura is certain to be affected at one time or another. In some cases, pleurisy appears to precede the tuberculosis and, as is sometimes stated, leads up to it. This is a misinterpretation. The pleurisy is, as a rule, an effect of an already existing infection. It is a toxic disturbance of the serous surface, in some cases due to the eruption through the pleura of tubercle directly, in others to the action of circulating toxins. The pleurisy may be dry. Such dry pleurisies occur frequently in the course of pulmonary tuberculosis, in some cases accompanied by pain, in others painless. Adhesions are likely to follow to less or greater extent, till gradually the lung gets bound down; this condition shows itself in limited movement of the affected area. Or the pleurisy is accompanied by effusion of fluid; this may be indicated, though not always, by aggravation of symptoms, especially breathless- ness and pain, and by physical methods (vide " Pleurisy "). In turn, such a pleurisy is likely to induce adhesions, often with marked thicken- ing of pleura and subpleural infiltration. The effusion may be simply serous. At other times, especially when actual tubercle is present in the pleura, it is hsemorrhagic. Or, it may be purulent (w'cZe " Empyema "). Tubercle bacilli are sometimes found in the fluid. Following absorption in such cases, a more general dis- tribution of tubercle may occur, and, for ex- ample, symptoms of cerebral or cerebro-spinal meningitis supervene. Pneumothorax is a not uncommon accident in the course of pulmonary tuberculosis. It may occur at any time, but is most likely when excavation has advanced. It commonly results from the bursting of a vomica which has almost reached the pleura. It takes place usually in relation to intrapulmonary stress, as in coughing or making forced effort. The extra strain seems necessary to overcome the cohesion between the layers of the pleura. Apart from such strain, and in presence of sufficient pleural adhesion, pneumothorax is not likely. The accident is indicated by a sudden accession of severe pain, followed by increasedLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 42 dyspnoea and by physical signs, more especially Trousseau's bell phenomenon (vide " Pneumo- thorax"). Following the establishment of pneumothorax there may be a fall of tempera- ture and evidence of collapse. The patient probably lies on the affected side to give scope to the activity of the other. The effect of the pneumothorax on the disease is curious. At first, in many instances it is followed by an apparent improvement in symptoms. So de- finite is this, that artificial pneumothorax has been proposed as a means of treating pulmonary tuberculosis. In the long run, however, and in most instances quickly, the situation is rendered more grave, and death follows probably within a month or two. When along with air, fluid (blood or pus) escapes into the pleural cavity, the phenomena of a hydro- (hsemo-, pyo-) pneu- mothorax may be recognised. (b) Alimentary.—Some of these have been mentioned already. The lips are rarely affected by tuberculous ulceration. The tongue varies much. Com- monly more or less furred, it is noteworthy how clean and healthy looking it may be throughout, even when the patient is seriously ill. When the intestine is affected, the tongue is usually red, raw, and often glazed, with prominent papillse. Tuberculous ulceration is commoner on the tongue than on the lips. Aphthous stomatitis, due to invasion of the devitalised structures by the oidium albicans, tends to occur at the latest stages. It is in large part the result of want of proper care and cleanliness of the mouth. When sufficient attention is given to this, such stomatitis is rare. The gums are often pale and flabby and tend to bleed. A red line on the gums, frequently described, is neither constant nor special to the disease. The mouth, tonsils, 2Mlate, and pharynx occasionally present tuberculous ulceration. These may interfere with deglutition, and de- serve attention. The palate is often conspicu- ously pallid; this is an early manifestation of considerable diagnostic value. The oesophagus is rarely disturbed. Ulceration has been oc- casionally reported. Some of the stomach dis- orders rank as symptomatic, and have been detailed in the proper place (p. 40). In ad- dition, tuberculous ulceration must be men- tioned. It is rare, and probably not discovered during life. This is due to swallowing of sputum. The fact that the stomach is so seldom affected by tuberculous ulceration, as compared with the intestine, is probably to be attributed to the action of the HCl on the tubercle bacillus. There may be true gastritis, with infiltration and thickening of stomach wall, and more definite interference with function (anorexia, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea). Dila- tation of the stomach, with delayed gastric digestion, may be present. The intestine may be variously affected, with resultant diarrhoea. Such diarrhoea may be caused by unsuitable or excessive food supplies or medicines, as in other subjects. Here, doubtless, idiosyncrasy plays a part. By such means a catarrhal condition may be induced or maintained. This must always be thought of and rationally excluded before a graver diag- nosis is determined. The diarrhoea may be the expression of a gastro-enteritis, or the diarrhoea may be due to tuberculous ulceration. This is caused by the ingestion of sputum. Its occurrence is ministered to by the constipation which is often present, whereby the tubercle bacilli lie long in contact with devitalised mucous membranes. It locates itself anywhere, but especially in the ileo-csecal neighbourhood, affecting the intestines both above and below. It manifests itself by intractable diarrhoea (two to six times or more per diem), pain, and tender- ness. There is often a call to stool in the early morning. Tubercle bacilli may be discovered in the stools. Or the diarrhoea may be symptomatic of amyloid disease of the intestine : this is usually a late manifestation in relation to absorption from vomicae. The diarrhoea is abundant, colliquative, and painless. Abscesses may occur about the lower end of the bowel. These are not always ischio-rectal, nor are all ischio-rectal abscesses of tuberculous origin. The abscess may give rise to fistida in ano. Peritonitis may occur, and this in various ways:—(1) By extension in relation to glandu- lar, intestinal, or other abdominal tuberculosis ; (2) by lymphatic connections from pleura; (3) rarely, as result of perforation of tuberculous viscus {vide "Tuberculous Peritonitis"). The liver may be affected by tubercle directly (miliary tubercle, caseous nodules, and abscess), but this has little clinical significance. It may be enlarged as by amyloid disease, congestion, and fat infiltration {q.v.). The cause of these is most likely the circulation of toxins and other products of lung disintegration. This leads to disturbance of the hepatic structures, and, it may be, local deposit. Fatty liver has been ascribed to the fatty food-stuffs (cod-liver oil) administered to the patient. This is doubtful. The su2)rarenal bodies may be affected by caseation. Of this there may be no definite evidence. Sometimes there are the coincident features of Addison's disease. The pancreas is probably often disturbed, and to this some of the digestive difficulties may be attributed. The lesions include sclerosis, caseation, and amyloid change. The diagnosis is obviously difficult. The conditions have received less clinical attention than their importance justifies. (c) Hcemopoietic.—Enlarged glands are fre- quent. They are of especial significance in young subjects. They may occur anywhere, and are considered under appropriate headings. From the point of view of early diagnosis, glan- ^ dular enlargements in young subjects areLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 43 rightly suspected as tuberculous. In addition to disfigurement, which occurs in superficially placed glands, glandular enlargements are of moment in two directions, namely, through their tendency to press and to rupture. Pressure may be exercised on the bronchi and even trachea, so as to interfere with respiration. If on one bronchus, collapse of lung may super- vene, which in virtue of physical signs may simulate consolidation. This is all the more likely if the change is limited to the upper lobe. Or veins may be pressed on, with resultant venous engorgement, cyanosis, and more rarely oedema. The vagus trunk or its recurrent branch may be involved, so as to cause paroxysmal bouts of cough, dyspnoea, vomiting, increased frequency of pulse, or aphonia. Eupture occurs in relation to suppurating caseous glands. It may take place into the trachea and cause suffocation; it may take place into a bronchus and lead to nasty broncho- pneumonia ; or it may take place into the oesophagus. The spleeii may be unaff'ected, or, at least, no change can be determined clinically. Thus tubercle is common, but is not recognised during life. In many cases the spleen is small and apparently atrophied. In some cases it undergoes amyloid change, when its size is increased, either as diffuse waxy spleen—the larger—or sago spleen. Diagnosis may rest on direct signs, but is chiefly dependent on evidence of amyloid disease elsewhere (kidney, liver, intestine). {d) Circulatory.—We have seen that the pulse tends to be rapid and of low tension. With the advance of disease, this becomes more marked. The heart is generally small and atrophied in all its parts. This is in line with the atrophied state of the muscles throughout the body. There may be pathological evidence of fatty degeneration, or, occasionally, of deposit of tubercle, but this has little clinical significance. The right ventricle tends to be enlarged (dilatation, hypertrophy) in presence of pronounced fibrosis of lung (increased resist- ance). Frequently the area of superficial cardiac dulness is increased through retraction of the affected lung. This is conspicuous on the left side, where widespread pulsation of the heart may be determined, and marked pulsation of the pulmonary artery in the second left intercostal space. Pericarditis is not very common, but occurs both in dry form and with effusion. It is chiefly due to lymphatic con- nection between pericardium and pleura (in some cases, peritoneum). Symptomatically it is not always distinguishable, owing to the state of the patient. The symptoms and signs are discussed under "Pericarditis." Endocarditis {q.v.) is even rarer. It should be borne in mind that murmurs suggestive of endocarditis may be due to secondary ansemia, or, perhaps, to dislocation of vessels in connection with retrac- tion. This may explain systolic murmurs some- times audible in the pulmonary area, and similar murmurs, best heard during expiration, over the subclavian artery. Tuberculous endo- carditis has been found especially in relation to the mitral valve. Tubercle bacilli have been discovered by more than one competent observer. Other organisms have been found in several instances (mixed infection). In young subjects the valve segments are sometimes found re- tracted by fibrous contraction. This is supposed by some to be an expression of tuberculous change. On the other hand, attention has been directed to the infrequent concomitance of pulmonary tuberculosis and mitral disease, especially stenosis. On this fact has been based the congestive treatment of articular tuber- culosis. There can be no doubt that the concomitance is not common. This is the more striking, if we recall the comparatively sedentary life which the subjects of valvular disease necessarily lead. Still the concomitance is far from being excluded. It seldom happens that the writer is without one or moi-e such case under observation. At the present time it happens that three cases are under treatment, in which the double condition is definitely present. The vessels are affected in various ways. With failing circulation towards the end, oedema of the extremities may appear. Tuberculous arteritis leads to more widespread dissemination of tubercle. Ar-terial thrombosis is rare, but may occur with grave result. Clotting may take place in the right heart and give rise to pulmonary embolism, with urgent or slighter manifestation according to the extent of blocking (vide " Embolism," p. 82). Venous thrombosis is more frequent. Phlegmasia alba dolens, due to venous blocking, is comparatively I common ; it occurs especially in relation to the lower extremity, which is swollen, pallid, and tender. (e) Uro-genital.—Reference may be made to the altered character of the urine, e.g. the increased discharge of phosphates. This phos- ; phaturia has been held to be symptomatic. The occurrence of the diazo reaction in pyrexial I stages, as in other pyrexial urines, should also be recalled. The kidney may undergo amyloid disease, or show evidence of inflammatory I change. Sometimes both conditions are present. The occurrence of amyloid disease is suggested by polyuria (urine of low sp. gr.), albuminuria, I passage of hyaline casts, and some degree of dropsy (there may be little). When this is combined with inflammatory disease the amount I of urine becomes less, and the dropsy and albuminuria more pronounced. Fatty, gi-anular, and even epithelial and blood casts may be present. The cause of the kidney disturbance is various. Amyloid disease is referable to the circulating toxins and waste products from lung disintegration. The inflammatory form is.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 44 perhaps, traceable to errors of dietary—this is a not unimportant aspect of forced feeding— and to the over use of medicinal agents (alcohol, terebene, tuberculin, etc.). In the course of this complication, or, it may be, in relation to genito-urinary tuberculosis {q.v.), urcemic symptoms may supervene. These are rarely of acute sort, but include increased dyspnoea, congestion and oedema of lungs, pleurisy, vomiting, which greatly aggravate the patient's condition. Genito-urinary tuberculosis may affect the kidney, ureter, bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens, and more rarely the uterus and ovary. Symptomatically, it is probably revealed by changes in the urine. The patient passes pus (with a corresponding amount of albumin), flaky, shreddy, caseous debris, and perhaps blood. In the sediment—• it is sometimes necessary to centrifuge the urine—tubercle bacilli are discoverable by the method described in relation to the sputum. Sometimes there is marked lumbar pain, and occasionally, in reduced subjects, renal enlarge- ment may be determined. When the bladder is especially affected, symptoms of cystitis may be present, but may be quite wanting. The cause of genito-urinary tuberculosis aff'ords scope for discussion. It may be induced by carriage of bacilli through blood and lymphatic streams ; thus in the female it may pass almost directly from the peritonitis. AVhen other organs save the lungs are healthy, it is reasonable to seek for an explanation in local inoculation. This has been shown to occur in connection with coitus, and pi'obably also with masturbation. The relations of pulmonary tuberculosis with reproductive activity are various. In the male sometimes there is an increased proclivity to sexual congress. Examples of this are numerous. Thus one patient, in extremely emaciated condition, is reported to have had coitus on the day of his death. In other instances the activity, at first probably increased, disappears with the progress of the disease. In the female, amenorrhoea, or, at least, scanty menstrual flow, appears early. Only rarely is there menorrhagia. When pregnancy is established, it appears at first to exert a conservative influence. Cough and other symptoms may lessen or disappear, and the patient's general condition seems better. But during the puerperium and thereafter the patient fares badly. There is commonly a marked aggravation of symptoms, the general condition is much prejudiced, and the fatal issue is usually hastened. Apart from preg- nancy, and indeed in the male sex, the mammary gland on the affected side has been reported as becoming enlarged. (/) Nervous.—The carriage of tubercle bacilli to the central 7iervous system is common. It is especially so in children, but is commoner in adolescents and adults than is sometimes supposed. The carriage is affected chiefly by way of the blood-stream. It may take place, however, by the lymph-stream, as when the spinal cord is reached gradually by continuity of structure, or when the cerebrum is invaded from nose or ear, which in turn has been secondarily affected by tuberculous expectora- tion. The invasion of the central nervous system takes the form most frequently of meningitis, or, it may be, of tuberculous masses or nodules within the cerebro-spinal matter. Meningitis may occur anywhere in the cerebro- spinal meninges, but is most commonly basilar. The symptoms are fully considered elsewhere (see " Meningitis "). As it develops in relation to pulmonary tuberculosis, e.g. in grown sub- jects, it is desirable to emphasise the signifi- cance of intractable headache, irritability, giddi- ness, causeless vomiting, hemiplegic or other paralytic manifestation {e.g. of cranial nerves), inequality of pupils, stupor, cervical rigidity, convulsions. In doubtful cases, an examination of the fundus oculi may prove serviceable (choroidal tubercle, optic neuritis). Exploratory puncture (lumbar) and withdrawal of cerebro- spinal fluid for examination (tubercle bacilli) has also been practised. It is important to bear in mind that cerebro-spinal meningitis may ensue rapidly in apparently slight cases of pulmonary tuberculosis. Thus the writer has seen it supervene in patients whose lung con- dition— though undoubted—had not been con- sidered till the complication occurred, and again in patients, after pleurisy with effusion or with localised lung mischief, who seemed doing ex- cellently well. Sometimes it appears to be determined by excitement or exhaustion. Thus in several cases it has supervened quickly after long railway j ourneys. This may be coincidence, but it is worthy of recollection in relation to the sending of patients to health resorts at a dis- tance. In more than one case, it has supervened after a round of gaiety undertaken too quickly after convalescence. Tuberculous masses or nodules may occur in the cerebrum or cerebellum. They may be multiple and of varying size. The symptoms produced by their presence are largely those of cerebral tumour {q.v.) and depend on their site. They may give rise to no symptoms whatever. Occasionally hemiplegic manifesta- tions and the like occur without any discoverable trace, post-mortem, of tuberculous deposit; these cases may be referable to the circulation of toxins. It seems certain that the circulation of toxins formed in relation to the tuberculous process may produce peripheral neuritis. Cor- responding changes have been found in the nerve structure. Clinically, the neuritis may be characterised by sensory disturbance (pain, hypereesthesia, anaesthesia) and motor disturb- ance, with atrophy of muscle. To the first group may be relegated many of the aches and pains which the tuberculous patient experiences45 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS throughout his illness. Thus there may be severe neuralgia, with tender points on pressure. This may be anywhere, e.g. intercostal, sciatic, etc., and is sometimes most obstinate. Or the muscles are painful or tender to touch and on movement. These myalgic manifestations are often vaguely described as rheumatic; so, too, are articular pains which are common enough. To this category may be assigned a condition of extreme pain—melalgia—occurring about the knee and extending over the leg, in advanced stages of the disease. Nevertheless, every pain and ache occurring through so prolonged an ill- ness must not be attributed essentially to the tuberculous affection. The special senses may be disturbed variously. Reference has already been made to nose and eye (optic neuritis, choroidal tubercle). The ear is often enough attacked (otitis media), doubtless by extension through the Eustachian tube, as in coughing. The tubercle bacillus is sometimes—not always —determinable in the discharge. The mental condition of the patient varies much. The classical attitude of extreme hope- fulness—spes phthisica—is far from being always in evidence. It is more frequent in acute varieties, where the patient throughout dreams of nothing but recovery, and fondly details, perhaps on the day of his death, plans for future work or enjoyment. Such extreme hopefulness is anything but universal, and would seem, in considerable part at least, an expression of the quality of nerve tissue of the individual affected —and this may explain the comparatively rapid progress of disease—rather than an attribute of the disease itself. For contrariwise, it must be admitted that a large proportion of patients become depressed and little interested in life. This mental attitude is more definitely deter- mined in what is described as phthisical insanity. The subjects tend to be unsettled, irritable, and unsocial. Reticent and even silent, they cease to manifest interest in things around them. Frequently they come to evince symptoms of suspicion of persons and actions, refusing food and even threatening to commit suicide. In judging of cases, it must be borne in mind that insane patients have a special proneness to be- come phthisical—a fact referable in part to their lowered nutrition, and in considerable part to the close, badly ventilated, and probably infected rooms which they may have to occupy. In this respect asylums have improved much within recent times, and there has been a corresponding diminution in the frequency of deaths from tuberculosis. There still remains much to be desired. {g) Locomotory.—Reference has been made more than once to the undue irritability and wasting of muscles. There remain to be men- tioned tuberculous affections of bones and joints. These are not very infrequent, more particularly in relation to the sternum, costal cartilages, ribs. and vertebrte. In connection with these, carious conditions, with the formation of chronic ab- scesses, occur. These may form considerable projections from the surface of the thoracic wall. The carriage of the bacillus is effected by the blood-stream, or more directly by lymphatic channels from affected pleura or lung. (h) Integumentary.—The skin and cutaneous appendages suffer in a variety of ways. The skin has frequently, especially in acuter condi- tions, a delicate translucency, which reveals capillary blushing readily (malar flush). In many cases it remains of coarser texture, and the complexion is greyish, muddy, sallow. Brownish coloration of the skin, either patchy or more general, is common {chloasma phthisi- corum). Still more marked pigmentation of fawn colour occurs in considerable areas on the back, chest, and abdomen. This is accompanied by fine scaliness {pityriasis versicolor). If the scales be removed and examined microscopically, the mycelium and spores of the mkrosporon furfur are visible. This parasitic affection, although not limited to tuberculosis, occurs more frequently here than in other conditions. Its appearance means lowered vitality and want of cleanliness in respect of the skin. When the skin is properly bathed and groomed, and sweating prevented or minimised, the con- dition is not likely to appear. Apart from parasitic invasion, the skin frequently presents a harsh, dry surface, with tendency to coarser desquamation (pityriasis tabescentium). At other times the skin is conspicuously oily {seboi'rhoea). All these states indicate the desirability of proper skin toilet. A satisfactory toilet is the more necessary in view of the wholesale neglect of the skin as a heat-regulating mechanism. The heaping on of clothing and breast-protectors commonly seen—eight, ten, twelve layers—is unphysiological as well as dirty. The skin does not get a chance. (Edema from circulatory failure, and phlegmasia from thrombosis, have been referred to already. Tuberculous tvarts and sores are occasionally found. They are in rare instances the starting of the process. They may occur from post- mortem or operation injury or by accident, as by the cut from the broken glass of a sputum bottle. Lupus is present sometimes. In re- lation to the large number of cases of pulmo- nary tuberculosis its frequency is small. The carriage of the bacilli is in these cases directly from without. Its common distribution about the nose and face is highly suggestive of causa- tion through the use of infected handkerchiefs and towels or the application of a dirty finger. The hair tends to get limp, thin, and in some cases brittle. This is not always so. Often the patient is unusually hairy, the skin of the trunk being covered by a soft, downy coating. Rapid development of greyness has been noted. The nails may similarly assume an unhealthy aspect.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 46 Clubbing of the fingers with rounding of the nail surface may be observed; it seems due chiefly to thickening of the subcutaneous structures of the ends of the fingers. Rontgen- ray examination indicates that the osseous structure is little, if at all, altered. Clubbing does not occur in all cases, and is not special to pulmonary tuberculosis. It is met with in conditions of chronic circulatory derangement, pleurisy, empyema. Its actual causation is still a moot point. Reference may here be made to the occasional occurrence of cutaneous emphy- sema. This is infrequent. It may be limited or general, and is due to the escape of air into the tissues through a breach in the respiratory organs, e.g. of the trachea or bronchus, or the lung more directly, e.g. by bursting of a vomica in presence of adherent but unresisting pleura. The gradual leakage of air through diseased pulmonary structures, apart from actual breach, has been suggested. Its occurrence is very doubtful. 5. Clinical Varieties and Progress The variation in clinical course is not less immense than the variation in symptomatology. One case terminates fatally within six or eight weeks ; another lasts for many years. One case seems to commence abruptly, and runs a rapid course throughout; another commences no less acutely, but after a few weeks passes into a quiescent state. The quiescence may be lasting, or, in turn, be interrupted by a re- crudescence of symptoms. Such alternation of activity and latency is frequent, and may be repeated in the same individual many times. Another case commences insidiously, and con- tinues for long without urgent symptoms ; or suddenly the even progress is abruptly altered by the advent of gravest manifestations, either pulmonary or constitutional, or through implica- tion of another organ. Factors determining Clinical Variation. — What determines the remarkable variation of clinical course? Reference has already been made incidentally to the leading contributory factors. They include— {a) The ave7iue and point of attack.—When the lung is infected primarily, by way of the air-passages, the progress is likely to be slower. The life-history of the tubercle bacillus explains why this should be. The growth of the tubercle bacillus is slow as compared with that of many other micro-organisms. The slowness of pro- gress may continue so long as the spread of the process is by continuity. The resultant local changes, especially fibrosis, act in part as barriers to the extension of the process. When the spread occurs by aspiration of tuberculous discharge, e.g. from bronchial tubes, the subsequent progress may be very rapid. When the avenue of pulmonary infection is the blood channel, the progress is most rapid. In such case the process may be truly fulmi- nant. This may occur secondarily to an earlier affection of lung, or may be secondary to a local process in another organ or structure (visceral, glandular, osseous, cutaneous tuberculosis). The earlier process may have been latent, until by mischance {e.g. gradual softening or surgical interference) entrance is obtained into blood- channels. When the spread occurs by lymphatic channels, the rate of progress is dependent on the permeability of these. The channels are more likely to be permeable in rapidly advancing than in sluggish conditions. They are more likely to be open in young than in old subjects. {b) The constitution of the patient.—We have seen that individuals vary very much in respect of susceptibility to tuberculosis. While that is true, yet the less susceptible person may become inoculated. In such case the progress of the disease is likely to be slow. Natural barriers to advance, existing at numerous points, offer, each in turn, extra resistance. The converse is true of more susceptible subjects: they offer less resistance to inoculation, and one by one the natural barriers are more easily overcome. From this point of view family history throws important light on the probable rate of progi-ess. (c) The actual state of the patient.—Individual susceptibility varies much from time to time. Thus the child after measles or whooping-cough, and the adult after influenza, offer less resist- ance than at other times. The frequency with which pulmonary tuberculosis follows these is recognised; commonly thereafter the clinical course of an already existing tuberculosis becomes more rapid. Such diminution in resistance may be referable to general conditions or local changes in the lung, e.g. catarrhal states of passages, pneumonokoniosis. {d) Existence of precedent tuberculosis either in lung or elsewhere.—Precedent tuberculosis is doubly significant. The recent manifestation may be definitely secondary to an earlier affec- tion. The course of events will then be rapid or slow, according to the avenue of extension ; or the recent manifestation may be expression of a fresh infection. For one tuberculous attack, far from affoi'ding immunity, actually produces a liability to further attack. As it proceeds, the recent process may kindle the older one into fresh activity ((/. the results of tuberculin injection), and thereby bacilli or their products, or both, be disseminated more widely. (e) The domestic and social co7iditions of the patient.—These play an important part. Apart from inherited liability we have recognised an acquired liability of tissue. In proportion as the patient can remove himself without delay from vicious influences (indoor life, unhealthy occupation, irregularity of meals, etc.), the progress of the disease may be delayed or47 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS arrested. Conversely, a continuance of these, or a return thereto after cure has been effected, is most prejudicial. A reawakening of the old process is likely to follow, and this may go rapidly ahead. This is the great difficulty in relation to the treatment of pulmonary tubercu- losis among the working-classes. It is especially on this account that the writer suggested the establishment of tuberculous colonies, where for long periods treatment on outdoor lines might be continued, the patient engaging in gardening or agricultural pursuits as strength permitted. Clinical Varieties.—The recognition of the more evident differences in course and progress gives sanction to the following grouping of cases from the clinical point of view—viz. 1. Acute ; 2. Subacute ; 3. Chronic. In admitting the division as convenient for working purposes, we must not lose sight of the fact that the limits are far from exact. As we have seen, the acute and subacute may become chronic. The subacute and chronic may, in turn, become acute. There is endless possibility of variation in individual cases. It may be serviceable to add a few words of description regarding each group. 1. Acute.^—This includes especially— (a) Acute Miliary Tuberculosis, in which there is a widespread dissemination of tubercle throughout the lung, either alone or as part of a general miliary tuberculosis. The dissemina- tion occurs by way of the blood-channels. The onset is commonly acute, but may be subacute. The condition may supervene as an exacerbation in the course of a chronic tubercu- losis. Of thoracic symptoms dyspnoea is con- spicuous. Respirations may amount to 37-70 per minute. Cyanosis is probably evident as the process advances. There may be nothing- remarkable about the cough, and expectoration is often absent. Even if sputum be obtainable, the tubercle bacillus is usually not determinable. Physical signs are poorly marked in proportion to the amount of systemic disturbance (vide p. 36). Constitutional phenomena are marked. The appearances may simulate those of enteric fever. Temperature runs high—102°-104° F.—■ and is of more or less continued type, subject to remissions. Sometimes there is no apparent pyrexia. The pulse is rapid and soft. Intense emaciation and enfeeblement quickly supervene. The progress towards death is usually swift. Sometimes evidence of a wider dissemination of tubercle may be present (tubercle meningitis, tubercle in choroid, tubercle bacilli in blood). (b) Lobular or Broncho-pneumonic Tubercu- losis, in which the dissemination is widespread ^ The term galloping consumption has been applied to pulmonary tuberculosis, which runs an acute course. In this sense it may be used as synonymous with acute, as here described. It has been limited by some to the broncho-pneumonic variety (q.v.), by others to acute miliary tuberculosis (q.v.). and patchy. The scattered foci are either caseous or indurated. The dissemination results from aspiration of tuberculous material, probably from an older area of softening. Hence, though apparently an acute process from the first, it is frequently an exacerbation of an older process, which may have escaped recognition. Acute dissemination may have been subsequent to an acute illness (influenza, the puerperium), which roused the latent process to activity. The clinical course is commonly acute and rapid. Local manifestations are wont to be more conspicuous than in the last variety. The sputum, which may be abundant, is muco- purulent or purulent, and contains tubercle bacilli and elastic tissue. Physical signs corre- spond with the lobular distribution. Constitu- tional phenomena are also pronounced. Pyrexia is marked, and now more definitely remittent in type. The circulation is soon gravely preju- diced, and the patient tends to sink with toxic symptoms. The patient may die in four or eight weeks, or as many months. (e) Lobar or Pneumonic Tuberculosis, in which the dissemination appears especially localised to a lobe. In this instance also there may be evidence of an older process or of change in the other lung. The course of events in this variety—which, in strict sense, is not very common—is similar to the course in acute pneumonia, with which it may be confused. Indeed, some of the cases thus grouped are probably cases of pneumonia occurriiig in patients with tuberculous lungs. Local and constitutional phenomena are well marked. Physical signs correspond with the lobar distribution. In place of the occurrence of the perturbatio critica at the end of 5-10 days, characteristic of croupous pneumonia, symptoms are unabated. Pyrexia of irregularly remittent type continues. There is much circulatory prejudice. The patient tends to sink with toxic symptoms and may die in a few weeks' time. In other cases the case assumes a more chronic character. 2. Subacute. — This comprises a variety of cases, as the name suggests. It includes some which, having commenced more acutely, assume a milder aspect. Some of these may finally become chronic, or the patient may die during the subacute period. Other cases which at first —possibly for a long period—appeared chronic assume a subacute character, with corresponding aggravation of local and constitutional mani- festations. Other cases are subacute from the commencement. 3. Chronic.—This includes by far the largest number of cases. Inoculation occurs most commonly by way of the air-passages. Dis- semination of the process is effected by continuity and lymph channels; the rate of progress is consequently slow, and varies in different in- dividuals. The disease is frequently arrestedLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 48 completely; in other instances, periods of quiescence and apparent arrest alternate with acute or subacute phases. Unless completely arrested there is a tendency to pass through the stages of infiltration, softening, and excava- tion. The symptomatology varies endlessly. The local and constitutional phenomena, and complications and accidents which may super- vene, have been already discussed. Where the lung tends to become more fibrous the chroni- city is most marked. Terminations.—The disease terminates differ- ently in different instances. In the foreground it is right to emphasise the natural tendency towards cure. This is illustrated abundantly by post-mortem observations in the case of persons dying from other diseases. These records of spontaneous cure and the results of clinical observation afford abundant ground for the statement that if patients were only taken in hand early enough, and kept under proper conditions long enough, complete arrest would be the most frequent termination. The tendency to cure even in advanced cases is evidenced by the recurrence of periods of remission and apparent arrest. On the other hand, the danger of renewed activity, even in latent processes, must not be forgotten. With the recurrence of such exacerbations the progress is downwards. In pronounced cases the tendency is towards death ; this may occur after weeks or months or years (acute, subacute, chronic). Death occurs in a variety of ways, {a) The chief factor in producing death is intoxication, either acute or more gradual. Toxic products are manufactured in relation to the growth of tubercle bacillus. These produce local irritation, and when absorbed cause widespread disturb- ance ; they effect emaciation and enfeeblement, and especially exert a depressant influence on the heart and circulation. Other organisms, present from time to time (mixed infection), are responsible for the production of toxic products. {b) Death may result from the dissemination of bacilli in different directions and the institution of a tuberculous process in other viscera (intes- tine, brain, genito-urinary tract). (c) Death may result suddenly from incidental conditions, e.g. haemorrhage, pneumothorax, pulmonary embolism, {d) Death is hastened and the dis- comfort of the patient increased by advancing interference with hpematosis as the lung is pro- gressively involved. Diagnosis The timely diagnosis of pulmonary tuber- culosis ranks as one of the most important in clinical medicine. This position is assigned chiefly because of two considerations. First, the enormous frequency and mortality of the disease ; and second, the hopefulness of treat- ment in the early stages, contrasted with the hopelessness at later stages. Too gi-eat cai-e- fulness cannot be exercised, therefore, with a view to early diagnosis. There is no blinking of the fact that many persons die because the tuberculous nature of their infection is recog- nised too late. Owing to a variety of reasons, none of which is commonly valid, a blundering vagueness is maintained too long. It cannot be too urgently insisted that the diagnosis is valuable in proportion as it is early. In concluding a diagnosis there are commonly three sets of considerations : (1) certain symp- toms which lead us to suspect the presence of the disease; (2) certain physical evidence in relation to lungs and other organs which confirm the suspicion; (3) the detection of the tubercle bacillus, which affords definite proof. That is the natural order of thought, and in that order we shall consider the evidence. It must be kept in view, however, that evidence is not always complete; contrariwise, it is often ex- tremely faulty, and the diagnosis is made by the careful piecing together of slender fragments. (1) Symptoms which lead us to suspect the presence of the disease.—The condition should be suspected in presence of certain symptoms, particularly if the symptoms, which may of themselves seem trifling, continue, and if no other explanation of their presence be forth- coming. The symptoms are not all directly referable to lung disease, and may not all be present in the giveii case. They include cough, expectoration, haemoptysis, breathlessness, feel- ing of oppression or pain, huskiness of voice, pallor, loss of flesh and weight, indigestion, loss of appetite (especially in the morning), sense of weakness, languor, feverishness, night-sweats. The presence of such symptoms calls for a thorough overhauling of the patient, including physical examination of lungs and other organs, and microscopic examination of expectoration or other discharges. (2) Evidence in relation to lungs and other organs:— (a) Physical signs in lungs.—These have been fully considered {vide p. 30). Attention should be directed especially to the signs of incipient tuberculosis; care bestowed on their precise determination will be amply repaid. In a doubtful case an exact note of the physical condition should be made from time to time ; this is none the less important if the result of the first examination be negative. Corrobo- rative evidence may be available by means of the spirometer (p. 31). [h) Pulse.—Rapidity of pulse—let us say 85 to 100 or more per minute—if otherwise un- explained, is highly significant. Maintenance of increased pulse-rate is often an early symptom. Along with increase in rate some degree of softness may usually be noted. (c) Temperature.—Elevation of temperature is commonlj^ found some time in the twenty- four hours if the record be made sufficientlyLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 49 often. In some cases, especially those under open-air treatment, such aberrations of tem- perature may be quite wanting. In order to precise determination the temperature should be taken for some days every three hours or oftener. It is most misleading to rest content with one or two observations daily. {d) Weight.—The relation of weight to height and age is of much moment. Definite loss of weight is significant. Reliance must not be placed on a single observation or vagvie im- pression as to loss of weight. The patient's weight should be recorded with exactness from week to week. (e) The patient's history.—This should include the history of the patient in a wide sense. It is not merely a matter of family history as generally understood—e.g. Has his father or mother or brother died of consumption? Granted that this or that relative has died of tuberculosis, the more important issue is, how far the patient has been subjected to the same conditions of life. Has he been exposed to risk of infection from close contact either with the said relative or other consumptive person, as by occupation of the same house, rooms, office, or workshop % Does his mode of life or calling entail undue devitalisation % (/) State of other organs.—This may afford corroborative evidence of the first moment. It is therefore desirable that the other viscera be examined with care. It is insufficient to confine ourselves to the lungs. The diagnosis, and, as we shall see, the prognosis, implies a thorough review of the whole system. Specialism, in the narrow sense of the term, is here fatal. While all organs should be looked to, the mucous membrane of throat (including palate, fauces, and larynx) deserve special care. A laryngoscopic examination should form part of the routine examination in most cases. Short of grosser changes (e.g. ulceration), undue pallor (e.g. palatal pallor), flaccidity, swelling of mucous membranes, are all significant. (g) Rontgen-ray illumination. — Examination by means of Rontgen rays may afford valuable corroborative evidence. Especially is this true in relation to early stages of the disease. Even when physical signs in the ordinary sense are slight—some would say when they are wanting —involvement of lung may be testified to by the shadow on the screen or the radiograph. In estimating the diagnostic value of the Rontgen rays, much depends necessarily on the relative skill of observers in the use of different methods. It is astounding how apparently obvious physical signs may be passed over by good observers. It is therefore difficult to compare rigidly the results determined by the earlier physical methods and those obtain- able by the Rontgen-ray method. None the less is it true that Rontgen-ray illumination affords important aid. For definitely recording VOL. VI the amount of opacity, the radiograph is most serviceable. The simple screen has advantages in other directions. While showing the shadow sufficiently well, it reveals insufficiency of diaphragmatic movement on one or other side. Thus in early pulmonary tuberculosis the dia- phragm frequently stands unduly high and its excursion is limited. (3) Detection of the Tubercle Bacillus.—This may be direct or indirect. The presence of the tubercle bacillus itself affords absolute proof of the existence of tuberculosis. It is not, however, determinable in all cases, which other evidence may prove to be of tuberculous character. In other words, while a positive examination for bacilli is certain, a negative result does not necessarily exclude tuberculosis. During the examination for bacilli fibrous tissue may be sought for. Where the examination has been negative, confirmation of the evidence should be sought in repeated examinations. In such cases, and in those where expectoration or other discharge may not be available, the tuberculin test may be advantageously applied. For that reason the two methods of determina- tion will be considered at this stage. With reference to such procedure it should be kept clearly in view that therein the diagnosis of the esse7itial etiological factor is alone involved. The diagnosis of the patient's disease is not therefore completed; indeed, refinement of diagnosis with a view to a sufficient prognosis only commences at this point. The variety of clinical type and course is immense. A full diagnosis must still rest on a careful considera- tion of symptomatology, physical signs, and other factors. {a) Determination of Tubercle Bacillus.—The procedure has been considered (p. 30). The bacillus is usually sought in the sputum. When actual sputum is not obtainable it may be worth while to examine post-nasal or laryngeal discharge: a sample of this may readily be obtained by means of a soft brush. With the discovery of tubercle bacilli all doubt as to the essential nature of the case is removed. {b) Determination of Fibrous Tissue.—It is sometimes suggested that the discovery of fibrous tissue in the expectoration is of as great, if not greater, value. This is a mistake. The presence of fibrous tissue points to dis- integrative changes. It is not exclusively present in tuberculosis (p. 31). Indirectly it affords corroborative proof of the activity of the tubercle bacillus. Its discovery helps to refine diagnosis in respect of stage of the disease. (c) Tuberculin Test.—The use of tuberculin in diagnosis has been widely adopted by veterinary practitioners, and the results have been emi- nently satisfactory. In relation to the human subject there has been an undue timidity in its use. Since its introduction the writer has made 4LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 50 regular use of it in the small group of cases where certain determination was difficult by other means, e.g. cases where no expectoration was available. The results have been uniformly satisfactory. Procedure.—The original tuberculin is prefer- able. Prior to the test the patient's temperature should be carefully recorded several times daily for some days and an exact note made of the physical signs. Aii injection of O'0005-O'OOl gramme, dissolved in i per cent carbolic acid solution, is given deeply into muscular tissue. The patient is thereafter kept at rest, and temperature and pulse noted carefully every 2-3 hours. In positive cases, evidence of the reaction appears in 5-20 hours—the interval varies considerably in difierent cases. The temperature rises 2°-3° F. or more, and the circulation is perturbed. Frequently a change ill physical signs is discernible. Crepitations may become more audible; cough may be increased; expectoration, which was scanty or wanting, may be forthcoming, and in the expectoration bacilli may perhaps be found. In negative cases, matters remain in statu quo. In this event, it may be desirable in 3-4 days to repeat the injection, the amount being increased to 0 "002-0 0003 gramme. The results of the test, if not absolutely certain, may be relied on for practical purposes. Again and again in the writer's experience, when physical signs or symptoms pointed to an early condition, but no expectoration was present or bacilli could not be discovered in the scanty discharge, the injection has testified correctly to the presence of tuberculous involve- ment. The number of doubtful instances has been so small as to be discounted. In the few instances where the injection of tuberculin into apparently non-tuberculous subjects produces a reaction, it is, of course, open to question whether some hidden forces of infection may not be present. In no case, whether the result was negative or positive, has the patient sufiiered by the injection. Conditions from which Pulmonary TiLherculosis must he separated.—At an early stage, and in some cases later on, when lung phenomena are less prominent, the correct diagnosis may be readily missed. The condition may be mistaken for dyspepsia, gastric ulcer, or even malignant disease, anaemia (chlorosis), neurasthenia, hys- teria, and the like. Careful exclusion on the lines jvist indicated is necessary. When respiratory symptoms are more promi- nent, the condition may be mistaken for bronchitis, bronchiectasis, emphysema, pneu- monia, gangrene, abscess, new growths (cancer, hydatid, actinomycosis), syphilis, pleurisy, em- pyema. With regard to some of these, e.g. bronchitis, emphysema, pleurisy, it must be borne in mind that they are frequent accom- paniments, and, in fact, expressions of the tuberculous process. Care must be taken that the lesser, though perhaps more obvious, condition does not obscure the more radical disease. If the diagnostic lines be followed, completeness of diagnosis will be generally assured. When the onset is acute the condition may be mistaken for enteric fever or, perhaps, malaria. Prognosis In the foreground it must be explained that, while the presence of the tubercle bacillus aff'ords ground for anxiety, pulmonary tuber- culosis is very far from being always fatal. On the contrary, it is one of the most curable of maladies if taken sufficiently early and firmly in hand. This is evidenced both by clinical and pathological facts. Even in advanced stages the possibility of cure is considerable. In all cases amelioration is to be contemplated. The prognosis in individual cases is a difficult matter, requiring both skill and experience. No two cases are quite the same. The fact of the presence of the bacillus does not aff'ord sufficient ground for a prognosis; nor do the physical signs alone yield satisfactory informa- tion. A multitude of considerations have to be weighed in each instance. Some of these are pathological, some of more general nature. They comprise the history of the case, mode of onset and course, present symptoms, physical signs, state of temperature, circulation, appetite, digestion, weight, sleep, involvement of other organs, constitution of the patient, his character, intelligence, age, and other conditions of life, including his pecuniary resources. It will be convenient to review the more important of these briefly. Mode of Onset.—An acute onset, with rapid invasion of one or both lungs, is of grave signifi- cance. Contrariwise, a slow, insidious onset, once the nature of the disease is recognised, is favourable. Cases commencing with one or more attacks of pleurisy frequently do well, if only the tuberculous nature of the process is determined and suitably treated. Cases com- mencing with hfemoptysis are not unfavourable. This may be due to several causes. Often the occurrence of the bleeding acts as an efficient danger-signal and ensures greater care for the future. Clinical Course.—A rapid spread from point to point under observation points to great activity of disease, and is correspondingly ominous. Present Symptoms.—These are less directly significant. Persistency of cough is a source of constitutional disturbance, as well as a means of spreading the disease from point to point, which must be kept in view. The character and amount of expectoration are of less import- ance than might be supposed. Some of theLUNGS, DISEASES worst cases, e.g. acute miliary tuberculosis, yield frequently no expectoration, while other cases of great chronicity present much. None the less is it true that a gradual reduction in expectoration is favourable in most cases. The occurrence of bleeding from time to time should not be looked on as of ill omen. Apart from more pronounced htemorrhages, which may lead immediately to death or produce grave anaemia, heemoptysis actually seems to relieve the patient. Certainly it is not symptomatically the dreadful thing it has often been supposed. The number of bacilli in the expectoration is not a safe gauge for prognosis. This varies from time to time in the same case, according to the source of the expectoration. All the same, persistent abundance of tubercle bacilli is unfavourable, while a gradual tailing off should be regarded as satisfactory. Physical Signs.—Care must be exercised in the interpretation of these. Because physical signs are obvious, the case is not necessarily grave. Thus extensive dulness with marked flattening of chest-wall may be the expression of satisfactory cicatrisation. Some of the most serious cases, e.g. acute miliary tuberculosis, have less obvious physical signSj which may readily be missed or regarded as unimportant. Nevertheless, by means of physical evidence the practised eye and hand and ear can gauge the actual extent and frequently the character of the involvement, and, by observations made from time to time, may determine advance or recession of the process. Temperature readings are of much value. They must be taken regularly and sufficiently often. A continuously normal or slightly sub- normal temperature, with small diurnal range, is satisfactory, and commonly points to a quiescent process or an uncomplicated process going on to cure. It must be borne in mind that such a temperature is consistent with not only dulness but abundant crepi- tations, and even the signs of vomica forma- tion. This is the temperature course repeated in case after case, in the writer's experience, in patients passing on — though still with abundant physical signs—^to recovery on open- air lines. Elevations above the normal line are significant in proportion to their degree and continuance, unless they can be explained apart from the lung disease. Incidental eleva- tions, which necessarily occur from time to time, must be discounted. In each case a sufficient explanation should be forthcoming. A violently swinging temperature commonly points to activity of process and toxic absorption. With improvement, there is not only less elevation, but the swinging tendency gradually disappears. An inverted elevation of temperature—higher in the morning or forenoon than at night—with considerable swing is an unfavourable manifesta- tion. A sudden drop to the subnormal after OF—TUBERCULOSIS 51 the continuance of pyrexic manifestations may be expressive of collapse. The pulse is of great value prognostically. Whatever other indications be present, a rapid, soft pulse means danger. One of the most certain indications of improvement—one which early manifests itself under the open-air regime —is diminution in the pulse rate and increase of arterial pressure. Similar prognostic indica- tions may be got from examination of the heart beat and sounds. The state of the appetite and digestion are significant. Loss of appetite and digestive troubles are among the early manifestations of the disease. Return of appetite and digestive ability are the best indications that the system has begun to cope with the disease ; it is also gratifying evidence that a physiological line of treatment has been adopted. Continuance of gastro-intestinal symptoms interferes with suc- cessful treatment—it is often an expression of wrong treatment—and suggests the possibility of complication {vide infra). The weight affords from week to week satis- factory indication of progress. There is commonly room for gain in weight. Steady increase—say 1-3 lbs. weekly—constitutes a desirable re-enforcement of resistance. Corre- sponding loss of weight indicates failure of resistance and grave disturbance of nutrition. It must be kept in view that mere gain in weight is not everything. An abundance of soft, loose adipose tissue may sometimes be a poor cloak for the nakedness of the bones. To be satisfactory, the gain in weight must be dis- tributed in considerable part throughout the muscular system. The muscles should increase in size, firmness, and tone. Nervous Manifestations.—The disappearance of nerve and muscular irritability and sleepless- ness is a favourable indication. The return of undisturbed, natural sleep is an indication of improvement, no less gratifying to the physician than to the patient. The occurrence of complications gives rise to increased anxiety. More especially significant is evidence of involvement of other organs. Laryngeal disease renders the outlook graver, but far from hopeless. When the epiglottis is implicated, the prognosis is immediately worse, owing to the resultant dysphagia. Tuberculous involvement of the bowel is still more serious, both directly and indirectly from interference with nutrition. When diarrhoea supervenes, it must not be too hastily assumed to be tuber- culosis. Frequently diarrhoea results from improper dietary; in other cases, it is an expression of waxy disease. Peritonitis is not a common complication, and its prognosis is considered elsewhere. Genito-urinary tuber- culosis is more frequent and justifies an ulti- mately bad prognosis. Tuberculous meningitis —a commoner complication than is oftenLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 52 supposed—affords an immediately bad outlook. Apart from genito-urinary tuberculosis, the kidneys may become affected by inflammation and waxy disease, the prognosis of which is considered elsewhere. The combination of diabetes and pulmonary tuberculosis is of bad omen. A good many diabetics end their days thus. The constitution and character of the patient and the conditio7is under vjhich he lives are of much significance. The prognosis is governed a good deal by the stuff he seems made of. There is the firm, fibrous patient who resists well, in contrast with the soft, flabby, flaccid patient who resists badly. The difference is doubtless an expression of difference in cir- culatory, nervous, and other functions. It is convenient to emphasise it at this point. In this connection family history is of im- port. It is important not only to know if other members of the family have been affected, but, even more so, how they withstood the disease—whether they went down quickly or resisted well, and whether they lived under the same conditions as the patient. The character of the patient and even his degree of intelligence are of moment. Timidity, distrust of methods, impatience, carelessness, self-in- dulgence in spite of restriction or prohibition, and the like, may banefully prejudice the chances of recovery. The patient's age has a bearing on the issue. Other things being equal, the progress of the disease is more rapid in young subjects. On the other hand it is to be borne in mind that, under a wise regime, retraction and cicatrisation may be obtained more quickly in a young, yielding chest than where the thoracic wall has become more rigid. Sex has less significance, apart from the question of pregnancy and lacta- tion. It has been thought that the course is always more rapid in the female subject. This is extremely doubtful. The apparently greater rapidity is probably due to the greater tendency to adopt protective, indoor treatment from the first. Under similar conditions there is no important difference determinable. Pregnancy and lactation exert a most pre- judicial influence. When pregnancy occurs in an affected subject it sometimes appears to exert a conservative and beneficial influence. Throughout the pregnancy, indeed, the tuber- culous process may become quiescent. During the puerperium and thereafter there is a marked tendency to exacerbation, and the patient frequently goes down-hill rapidly. Even if one pregnancy and puerperium be passed through safely under those conditions, there is imminent danger in respect of a second. Should the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis marry ?—The question naturally raises itself at this point. The answer is that such marriage should not obtain the physician's sanction unless, under definite observation, the process has been perfectly quiescent for a year at least. Short of this, it should be forbidden, as gravely prejudicing the interests of both contracting parties, who should have the risks placed plainly before them. When feasible, the period of trial may be wisely extended beyond one year. When the process is active or has become recently active, the physician's sanction ought not to be granted. From this point of view the various pleas commonly advanced are invalid in view of the major issues. The pecuniary circumstances of the patient are of moment, including as they do the possibility (or otherwise) of taking right and sufiicient means to ensure a cure, the possibility of taking life and business luore easily, and the possibility of avoiding insanitary conditions of residence, occupation, and the like, which militate greatly against the individual. Of immediately evil omen may be named the following: advent of intense breathlessness, as from pneumothorax or grave circulatory impedi- ment ; failing, small, rapid pulse; oedema of extremities; intractable diarrhoea; persistent aphthous stomatitis (oidium albicans) and a violent, unrestrainable hfemorrhage, as from an aneurysmal dilatation within the lungs. The occurrence of a very pronounced Ehrlich's diazo reaction has been also accounted bad. Treatment I. Prophylactic Intelligent prevention of pulmonary tuber- culosis must rest on ascertained facts, and it would be well if these were more generally known, so that they might be acted on. The causa sine qua non is the tubercle bacillus. Without the tubercle bacillus there can be no tuberculosis. The bacillus must therefore be destroyed or rendered harmless. The characters and life-history of the bacillus indicate that its destruction or, at least, the limitation of its growth is possible. The bacillus is a parasite which does not easily flourish outside a suitable host. Ordinarily occui-ring conditions of sun- light and fresh air are inimical to its life. Tuberculosis is propagated chiefly by the carriage of the tubercle bacillus from an affected to an unaffected individual through the secretions and excretions of the former. So far as pulmonai-y tuberculosis is concerned, the bacillus-containing expectoration is especially of sigiiificance. This is inhaled. The conveyance of infection directly by surface lesion or even by ingestion {e.g. of milk) is of less moment. The healthy cells and tissues of the respiratory apparatus have a certain power of resistance to the inroads of the bacillus. Infection is more likely to occur when the individual is out of condition from any cause either temporary, as after an illness (measles, influenza), or more or less permanent, as from53 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS manner of life (overcrowding, unhealthy occu- pation). It is convenient to speak of (A) Public measures of prophylaxis; (B) Pi-ivate mea- sures. A. Public Measures.—The significance of these to every community, large or small, is illustrated by what has been said previously regarding the enormous mortality from pulmonary tubercu- losis, the frequency with which the disease affects persons at the working ages, the long duration of the illness, and the physical and financial bankruptcy to which it commonly leads. Much encouragement to the adoption of these is afforded by the striking reduction in mortality which has been experienced during the past quarter of a century. During that period the mortality has fallen in this country by almost one-third. The public measures include—(1) General measures of improved sanitation. Local autho- rities have already large powers in this direction, and they must be urged to use them. Citizens must be made to understand that wisely-devised measures for the increase of sunlight and air throughout cities and towns are worth spending money on. City improvements in the way of removing narrow streets and crowded insanitary quarters and sunless areas should be faced, even when costly. Sanction should be refused to the building of long rows of lofty tenements in streets too narrow to admit either air or sunlight. The acquiring and preservation of open spaces, gardens and parks, in the vicinity of our towns is to be advocated on economic grounds. More must be made of such parks and gardens by the erection of shelters and screened seats. A considerable part of the open-air treatment— especially in its prophylactic aspect—might in that way be carried out by our municipalities and councils. The inspection of lodging-houses, workshops, factories, offices, and all places of assembly should be more stringent. Public conveyances —cabs, cars, omnibuses, railway carriages—want looking to. Street and other cleaning must be conducted on sound lines. No sweeping of streets must be permitted which produces clouds of dust among the passengers, and sends germ- laden dust through open windows and doors. It is easy to render street cleaning harmless by watering the streets previous to brushing them. The public measures include—(2) Measures directed especially against the tubercle bacillus. In the foreground, it is desirable that the people should be informed in simple, but definite, fashion regarding tuberculosis and its preventa- bility. Some ten years ago, the writer prepared a statement on these lines for distribution among hospital out-patients. As it has served as the model of a number of others, it may be con- veniently quoted here. Rules for Consumptive Patients and those looking after them. {Arranged for the Victoria Hospital for Con- sumption, Edinburgh, January 1, 1891.) Consumption is a communicable disease. It may pass from person to person. It may pass from one lung to the other, or from one organ to another. The chief source of infection is the expectora- tion of the consumptive. The great danger lies in the drying of the expectoration, and the blowing about of the dried infectious material. The spread of consumption can be largely prevented. If the succeeding directions be obeyed, there need be no serious danger in ordinnry inter- course with patients. The breath of the consump- tive is not directly infectious. The patient should expectorate into a jar or cup containing a table-spoonful of carbolic acid (1 to 20) or other disinfectant. The vessel should be changed once in twelve hours or oftener. It should be cleansed by being filled up with boiling water. The combined con- tents should be poured down the water-closet. The vessel should then be washed with boiling water. When the patient is out of doors, he should carry a pocket spitting flask (such as Dettweiler's, or the Victoria Hospital simpler model). The flask should be used and cleansed like the jar. The patient should never spit on the streets. The patient should not use handkerchiefs for expectoration. If this ever has to be done, the handkerchief should be of an inexpensive material, that it may be burned after use. Squares of rag or paper, which may be used for convenience, should be similarly treated. The expectoration should on no account be swallowed, for thereby the disease may pass to other organs. Consumptive patients should avoid kissing. Consumptive mothers should not suckle. If expectoration has been accidentally de- posited on the floor or other object, it should be wiped up and burned, and the surface of the object cleansed with strong disinfectant. Rooms which have been long occupied by a consumptive patient should, before occupation by some one else, be carefully disinfected, as after other infectious disease. Fresh Air is the food of the lungs. There- fore see that the lungs be not starved. (a) By Day.—The patient should occupy as airy a I'oom as possible. It must be scrupu- lously dry, and preferably removed from the ground. The window should be freely open. When able, the patient should be out of doors once or several times during the day. He must avoid over-effort, and damp, or chill, which would counteract the benefit. (6) By Night.—He should sleep alone. TheLUNGS DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 54 bedroom should be large and airy. The window should be kept open, less or more according to the season. Indiscriminate spitting on the streets and in public places of resort and public conveyances should be forbidden by bye-laws. It is high time that such expectoration should be branded and treated as a nuisance. If the circulation of instruction regarding the disease were properly carried out, the public would speedily recognise the propriety of such bye-laws. Suitable pro- vision (spittoons) ought to be made in public places for the prevention of this as of other kinds of nuisance. Municipalities, county councils, and other local authorities must be awakened to their responsibility in the matter of prevention. In view of the nature, extent of distribution, and preventability of the disease, it is not too much to ask that, in the absence of state legislation, those authorities should safeguard the interest of their respective communities as much as possible. The Public Health Department should be prepared to receive and afford infor- mation and assistance in respect of the disease. This should include the establishment of an hospital for the reception and treatment of the more advanced cases, at least, among the poorer classes; and in towns more particularly, a dis- pensary at which the consumptive poor should be entitled to apply for advice and treatment. Means should be available for attendance on bed-ridden patients, not otherwise attended at their own homes, when hospital accommodation was not available. The department should issue and circulate printed instructions regard- ing prevention and disinfection. It should undertake the disinfection of bed-clothes and garments and of all rooms occupied for long periods by consumptive patients, either after removal or death. It should undertake the examination and reporting on all suspected expectoration and other discharges. It should require immediate intimation from the district registrar regarding deaths from tuberculosis within the area concerned. Provision ought to he made in all asylums, poor-houses, and similar institutions for the separation and suitable treatment of patients suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis. Although the disease is probably not directly induced through the introduction of tuberculous milk or meat, yet the possibility of its being thus acquired must not be overlooked. Because of this, it is not out of the way to insist on the necessity—a necessity which exists still more in relation to abdominal tuberculosis—that the local authorities should have ample power to examine all milk supplied within their boundary. This examination should include, when desirable, testing examination of the cows yielding the milk, and even the byres and dairies. The risk of inducing the disease from the use of tuber- culous meat is a small one; it is best removed by the appointment of thoroughly qualified men as meat inspectors. Notification.—There has been a good deal of difference of view manifested on this point. Un- fortunately, neither medical nor public opinion is sufficiently ripe in the LTnited Kingdom to admit of the immediate institution of compulsory notification. Xone the less, notification seems the sound and logical solution of the tuber- culosis problem; that it will come in some form, as the public become better acquainted with the facts, admits of little doubt. Voluntary notification, which has been tried successfully on various plans in different places, is a step in the right direction. The experience of New York is remarkable. So far back as 1893 notification was required in that city of cases of consumption in public institutions, and was requested from doctoi's regarding cases in their private practice. The records of the experiment are highly suggestive. There were notified in 1894, 4166 cases; in 1895, 5818 cases; and in 1896, 8334 cases. The experience of these years led the Health Board of New York to declare pulmonary tuberculosis an " infectious and communicable disease," and to require "the notification of all cases of consumption occurring in the city." Much has been said regarding the disabilities and hardships which would acci ue to the individual if any system of notification were adopted. It is manifestly right that all such disadvantages should be estimated and sufficient weight attached to them ; but there is a risk of their being exaggerated and thereby the main issue blurred. Is notification likely to assist the authorities in dealing effectively with a disease which is responsible in the United Kingdom for 60,000 deaths per annum ? If it is, there seems no valid reason why it should not be adopted in some form. B. Private Measures. — It is of the first moment that every individual should under- stand that consumption is not got by exposure to cold. The bogey of "catching cold" has done infinite harm and has led to the institution of protective measures, which have in turn been the cause of the disease. The freest access of sunlight and oi fresh air, both day and night, ought to be courted by the individual. These conditions are doubly serviceable. They in- crease the resisting power of the cells of the respiratory organs and are directly inimical to the tubercle l)acillus. Bedrooms, sitting-rooms, school-rooms, offices, work-rooms, assemlily rooms, public conveyances, all require the same treatment. No bedroom should be slept in without the window being open, and the more widely the better. It is a prevailing fallacy to suppose that because a room is large the windows may remain shut. Such a room only harbours a greater volume of soiled air. The55 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS dusting and sweeping of rooms and offices ought to be carried out by moist methods and im- mediately after, not before, occupation. In the selection of residence, preference should be given to dwellings which obtain from position and aspect a maximum of sunlight. In fiats, the ground floor is to be avoided, and cellar tene- ments ought not to be inhabited. Dampness of residence, whether dependent on structural defects or site, is fatal. Education.—If there be threatened delicacy, education in the commonly-accepted sense must be held of secondary importance. Attention must be directed primarily to the physical re- formation of the individual. There is much need for physiological seminaries on fresh air principles, where such delicate children and youths would be properly taken in hand. Suit- able lung gymnastics, as by dumb-bells, Indian clubs, and the like, are of service. The move- ments must be slow, corresponding with the normal rate of respiration. They must be directed towards the production of a healthy form of chest and the correction of existing architectural deformity. The exercises should be practised in the open air, or, at least, in a room with the windows freely open. The individual should breathe through his nose, as he ought to be taught to do at all times. He should be lightly clad while exercising, and covered up thereafter. Open-air Life.—The facts of etiology go to prove that the more the individual is in the open air, the less likelihood is there of contract- ing the disease. The more he has to be indoors by the necessities of business, work or study, the greater risk he runs. Persons who have to lead sedentary lives during business hours must be taught to minimise the risk as much as possible by the direct admission of fresh air, and to counterbalance the disability by activity in the open air after business, and by an extra allowance of fresh air by night. The particular form of activity must vary in different cases. It is a good rule, however, that in presence of threatened delicacy, the more continuous equal activity, of which golf is an excellent example, is better than the less regular and more exciting, such as tennis or football. Exercises or other activity involving the inhalation of dust should be excluded. General Habits.—Regularity and simplicity of meals are to be enjoined. Dyspepsia and constipation should be relieved on simple lines. The use of stimulants and tobacco should be restricted. The habit of cigarette-smoking is to be discountenanced. Sexual excess must be avoided. Sufficiently warm but light clothing is desirable. All constriction of the thorax by dress must be excluded, more especially during the years of growth. Mufflers round the neck, extra flannels over the chest, and particularly so-called " chest-protectors " are to be discarded. On the other hand, the extremities, upper and lower, should be kept warm by means of suitable gloves and stockings. The peripheral circula- tion is best maintained by healthy activity ; this is assisted by a rapid morning dip—the shorter the better—in cool water, followed by dry rubbing. Thereby the heat-regulating mechanism of the skin is maintained in order. After acute illnesses, more especially those with tendency to complication from the side of the respiratory organs—e.g. measles, whooping- cough, influenza—a watchful supervision of the patient is necessary to ensure a complete return to health. There can be no doubt that where this is overlooked, pulmonary tuberculosis is frequently established or a latent tuberculosis roused into activity. Over and above the routine treatment of such infective conditions, it is often desirable to prolong the period of convalescence and send the patient away for a change of air. The danger of the introduction of pulmonary tuberculosis by milk directly has been seen to be slight. Nevertheless it is a good rule to insist on having milk scalded before use until such time as larger measures are adopted by the community for the exclusion of tuberculous milk from the market (p. 54). Boiling for a minute or two is quite sufficient. Actual boiling is not essential. Cream or milk kept at a temperature of 90° C. for five minutes is sufficiently treated; this can be effected in one or other variety of sauce-pan without materially affecting the taste and certainly with- out disturbing the nutritive value of the milk. It is worthy of note that during the process the milk is freed from other organisms as well as tubercle bacilli. If a member of a household be already affected, what precautions are necessary to prevent the carriage of infection (1) to other persons, and (2) to other parts of his own body? Such an individual must bear in mind that, in proportion as he follows the prophylactic lines already discussed, the less is he a danger to himself and other people. Cleanliness in the wide sense, through the free use of fresh air as well as water, is the best safeguard. Under such conditions of cleanliness the presence of the consumptive patient is little to be feared. It is right that he and his friends be reassured fully on the point. The person of the consumptive is not directly infectious. The breath of the consumptive is not directly a source of infection. There seems sufficient reason to maintain that even the explosive cough of some patients is not a likely means of carrying infection (Cornet). The moist particles so discharged are commonly salivary. When possible, however, it is desir- able to receive the particles on a rag or other destructible handkerchief. The vehicle of in- fection is the actual expectoration, which must be carefully handled on the lines already dis-56 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS cussed (p. 53). Having regard to the facts, attention to cleanliness in this i-espect cannot be too great. The consumptive patient should not share the same bed as another, and, where possible, not even the same room. It is a convenient rule to insist on the use of separate table and other utensils. As we have seen (p. 52), the con- sumptive patient should not marry. But the doctor is not the sole arbiter here. It is right, however, to emphasise the danger, not only in respect of possible family, but immediately in respect of the unaffected party to the contract. Both the prohibition and the risk are less important if the tuberculous process be quite latent. If a mother or other member of a family be affected, the less of close contact on the part of the others, more especially delicate children, the better. Kissing should in such circum- stances be avoided. An affected mother's milk will be replaced by sterilised cow's milk. To prevent the carriage of infection to other parts of his body, the consumptive patient must on no account swallow the expectoration. In his own interest he cannot be too rigid in its disposal on the lines already proposed. The early removal of tuberculous glands should be favoured as a prophylactic measure in this sense. All unhealthy conditions of mucous surface, e.g. tonsils, will be carefully looked to. Lastly, from this point of view it is often necessary that the consumptive change his occupation; for example, that he give up a sedentary, indoor life, spent unavoidably in badly ventilated, over- crowded, or dusty places, in favour of a more or less out-of-door life—even at the risk of reduc- tion of income. This may have to be enjoined. In some instances the indications are even better met by a change to another country, not so much because the climate is necessarily better, but because with more sunshine and fair weather the individual is likely to lead a more out-of- door life. II. Therapeutic The treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis has in the past been too largely empirical and symptomatic. Much of it has been unphysio- logical. With a definite pathogenesis, the treat- ment must become more rational. The disease is due to an organism which preferably estab- lishes itself and spreads on tissues whose resist- ance is lessened by various causes. The bacillus interferes locally with the function of the organ invaded by effecting disintegrative changes. Still more important—the bacillus produces con- stitutional disturbance, tending towards death by the elaboration of toxic products, which are the resultant of the life-history of the bacillus. The following division suggests the lines on which rational treatment should proceed :— A. Measures for improving the resistant powers of the tissiies. B. Measures for attacking the tubercle bacillus more directly, or neutralising the products result- ing from the growth and development of the bacillus within the body. C. Measures for relief of more important symptoms and complications. It goes without saying that in most cases these measures require to be combined. A. Measures for Improving the Resistant Poivers of the Tissues.—The adoption of these is meantime the most hopeful line. Nature unaided cures tuberculosis daily. We prevent this natural cure by imposing unphysiological conditions. Remove these and aid the natural tendency towards cure by every available means, and recoveries will become an everyday experience. The return to a physiological life—that is, the readjustment of the morbid processes on physiological principles—must be the motif of successful treatment, whether it be conducted at home or in a sanatorium. The chief advantage of the latter lies in the fact that it is difficult to obtain what is necessary under the ordinary conditions of home life. Under a well-conceived regime, in a well-regulated sanatorium, this is comparatively easy. Still the physiological principles which underlie the method are capable of application, more or less complete, almost anywhere. A bright, dry dwelling-house with a garden of comparatively small dimensions may be readily adapted to the purpose. Even in the dwelling-house which has no gai'den much of the benefit may be got, if the physiological indica- tions be rightly apprehended. We shall consider the difterent indications seriatim. (I) Fresh Air and Sunlight.—The patient is to be bathed in fresh air day and night, irre- spective of the weather. Nothing should be accepted as an excuse for a reversal of the policy—neither rain, nor sun, nor wind, nor mist. Throughout an experience of many years and the treatment of hundreds of patients, the writer has not on a single occasion seen the slightest accident occur in relation to the fullest exposure of the patient day and night to this influence. This applies to both pyrexic and apyrexic cases. Short of actual chill, which can be avoided by suitable clothing and shelter, there cannot be too free exposure. During the day the patient is best outside entirely, resting chiefly either on a couch or reclining chair or other seat according to the stage of the illness. When for any reason, e.g. a complicating diarrhoea or such like, it is inconvenient to have the patient outside, the bed should be advanced to the widely opened window. It is marvellous how quickly patients come to enjoy the treat- ment, and little is heard about draughts. The latter can, however, be readily excluded, whether inside or outside, by means of folding- screens or swing-screens attached to window- corners and angles of the house. Outside, moreLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 57 formal shelters may be built of wood and glass. The roof and also, preferably, the sides should be made of glass. The shelters should not be deep—they ought not to form actual rooms— and the roof should slope from the back up- wards and forwards, so that there may be as little opportunity as possible for the collection of foul air. The shelters may either be fixed— in which case two or three are necessary, facing in different directions—or may be made to rotate. Rotatory chairs, such as are provided for yacht decks, are similarly convenient. This free exposure of the patient can be efficiently carried out in all climates (p. 60) and at all seasons. Thus the writer has frequently observed that patients under the treatment make more rapid progress actually during the colder months of the year. It is, of course, necessary to watch carefully that the peripheral circulation is well maintained. The finger-tips and toes should be kept warm. This is readil}" achieved by woollen under-garments, hose, and gloves, and a sufficiency of warm wraps. Although less enjoyable, perhaps, the out-of-door method may be continued after dark with perfect safety. When the patient has to be indoors, e.g. during night, the windows must be kept fi-eely open. The popular dread of night air must be overcome. If there are two windows, both should be kept wide open. It is a convenient plan to draw both sashes until they are parallel. Windows should never be closed for warmth merely; that can be attained by sufficient clothing and a fire in the grate. (2) Rest.—It is wise at first—at least until the patient's condition be thoroughly studied— to keep the patient at rest. Where the temperature swings much, and where the circulation is prejudiced—rapid, soft pulse—the patient should rest entirely. It is a good rule to insist on practically complete rest, if the temperature rises day by day above 100-5°, or if the pulse commonly registers over 90 beats per minute. With improved condition the rest ■will be less absolute. Thus the patient may be allowed to take a short turn—ten to fifteen minutes—every hour, resting for the remainder. As the improvement continues, the active periods may be combined, and the patient walk for three-quarters of an hour to two hours in the forenoon, and a similar period later in the day, resting entirely between. In all cases, rest for half to three-quarters of an hour should be insisted on before meals, and rather longer after meals. (3) Activity. — As recovery proceeds, the necessity for rest lessens. The resting periods become shorter, and the intervals of activity may be lengthened. In all cases the amount of activity should be regulated by the effects produced. Of this the best gauge is found in the temperature and pulse, which should be recorded after exercise. If these are un- disturbed, the activity may be continued and even increased ; if they are unfavourably dis- turbed, the activity must be restricted. Walking exercise, especially at first, must be studiously quiet, at the rate of two to three miles an hour. Hurry must be strictly for- bidden. Walking is practised wisely, to com- mence with, on the flat. With growing strength, gradually increasing inclines may be faced. At a later period, mild golfing exercise and the like may be allowed, the patient being guarded scrupulously against over-fatigue, and against chill after over-heating. Simple breathing exercises are also of service. The patient should be taught to breathe slowly, through the nose (not the mouth), emptying the chest well in expiration. In sitting and walking he must maintain, as far as possible, an ei'ect carriage. This may be aided and defects of chest architecture remedied by walking with a stick passed behind the back in front of the folded elbows, which are advantageously ap- proximated behind by straps or other means. Healthy respiration is also favoured by simple movements of the outstretched arms backwards, upwards and backwards, and so on. To be serviceable and free from risk, the movements should be slow, timed by approximately normal rate of respiration. If dumb-bells or other apparatus be added, the weight should be light. (4) Dietary.—This is of the greatest im- portance. Loss of appetite, disturbed digestion, interference with assimilation, and resultant loss of flesh—both muscle and adipose tissue— are conspicuous features of the disease. How is this to be remedied ? The answer is, by dieting the patient properly and getting him to eat sufficient. This is not synonymous with forced feeding. The latter, as sometimes 1 practised, may do a vast amount of harm. In [ proportion as physiological conditions are ful- I filled, there is little need to force the patient to feed. He eats of his own accord. In order to this, the rules regarding fresh air, day and night, must be followed strictly. It is often helpful to let him have his meals in the open air. Thus bathed in fresh air, the patient quickly drops his digestive disability. Com- plaints of nausea, sickness, pain, oppression, disappear. Appetite returns, and there develops often a craving for food not easily satisfied. The quantity of food may be increased without risk of digestive discomfort. Milk and fats of various kinds, which previously evoked loathing disinclination, are taken greedily. The bowels become more regular. In some instances it is advisable, in addition to the rest prescribed before and after meals, to let the patient I'ecline continuously during meals. By this means the tendency to sickness, when the stomach is full, may be averted. In all cases the meals should be taken slowly.58 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS The dietary should vary according to the character and stage of the disease. As a general rule, it is a wise arrangement to allow five meals in the day—or rather, three meals of proximately equal value, with two snacks at suitably separated intervals. Thus, if breakfast be at 9 a.ji., luncheon at 1 p.m., and dinner at 7 P.M., a light snack may be allowed at 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. It is unwise in such case to allow further extras of any kind between meals. If the patient sleep well, it is better not to give anything by night. If, on the contrary, he be wakeful, and his wakefulness is not the ex- pression of gastro-intestinal disturbance, a cup of thin meat tea or diluted warm milk may be allowed through the night. Sometimes the administration of a glass of boiling water is even better. The three chief meals should include a sufficiency of nitrogenous foods, fats, and carbohydrates. The food must be nicely prepared and daintily served, and varied as much as possible. Breakfast inay include porridge (preferably made with half milk, and boiled for forty-five minutes), cream, milk, toasted bread, plenty of butter, eggs, mild bacon, well-hung underdone meat, raw meat rissoles, fish of different kinds, with tea or coffee well diluted with milk. Luncheon and dinner —for the two meals should be similar in character—may include a cup of soup (to which, just before serving, may be added a little raw pounded meat), fish of various kinds with simple butter-sauce, well-hung underdone steak, roast beef, or other meat, chicken, game, farinaceous puddings, stewed fruit, cream, butter, and cheese. The matter of stimulants must be decided in each case according to state of pulse, temperature, and custom. Often alcohol is unnecessary ; frequently it is most helpful. Thus ^ss-Sj whisky added to a small tumbler of milk is serviceable. Or the equiva- lent alcohol may be given in the form of sound wine (hock, burgundy, sherry, port, champagne, according to circumstances). It is commonly a mistake to give much fluid at meal-times. If there be a tendency to thirst, better let the patient have a tumbler of hot water while resting half an hour before meals or three- quarters of an hour after meals. It is a mistake to insist on two or three glassfuls of milk along with meals. It is a different matter if, for any reason, the patient be on a milk dietary {vide infra). The snacks at 7 a.>[. and 4 p.m. may suitaljly consist of a cup of tea well diluted with cream or milk, or infused in milk, and buttered toasted stale bread, or a glass of hot milk (diluted one-third with boiling water or barley water), perhaps with a table-spoonful of rum or whisky, or an egg flip. The kind of meal must depend on the patient. Frequently it is best to confine the patient largely to a dietary of underdone meat, butter, toasted bread, and milk, with perhaps a little stimulant, limiting the amount of vegetable and farinaceous foods strictly. Thus breakfast may consist of raw-meat rissoles with toast and butter and a glass of warm milk; lunch and dinner, of lightly grilled mince or tender steak, buttered toast, and stewed fruit, and a glass of milk or wine as above. Such a dietary fre- quently appears to start healthy nutrition as nothing else will. It may be necessary to keep a patient for weeks on such a dietary. With improved condition the menu may be more varied. The alternation for a day or two of a more purely vegetable dietary, including, e.g., lentil or pease soup, vegetable purges of different sorts, is often of benefit. The use of milk, to some extent, is generally serviceable; but it may be overdone. If the patient relishes an ordinary dietary, it is a mistake to press milk further than has been indicated above; to do so means, perhaps, to upset the gastro-intestinal functions. In pro- portion as the capacity for a varied dietary is wanting, more milk may be allowed. Even then it is sometimes better to omit milk alto- gether for a day or two, and push a raw-meat dietary. In presence of pronounced gastro- intestinal irritability or disease, it is right to make trial of a more rigid milk dietary. The milk may be exhibited variously, as in other fevers. Commonly it is better diluted with boiling water, barley water, soda or lime water, according to circumstances. It may be com- bined with eggs, alcohol, etc., or it may itself be fermented in the form of koumiss. In other cases it is advantageously peptonised. (5) Skin Hygiene.—The state of the skin must be looked to, and its functional activity both as heat regulator and excretory organ restored. To this end clothing and bathing are to be considered. The clothing, both day and night, should be as light as is compatible with sufficient warmth. Overclothing, so frequently sanctioned, must be stopped. It is laughable, were it not so un- physiological, to count the number of layers one has to peel off many patients before reaching the chest wall. Such absurd clothing removes the last chance for the skin as a heat-regulating mechanism. At no season should more than a single flannel shirt and an under woollen garment be commonly permitted, in addition to the upper suit or dress. The clothing should be loose. In women, corsets should be practically dis- carded. Chest-protectors and swaddling-bands of cotton wadding, so frequently seen, are to be discredited entirely. By night the same general principles apply. Bathing of the skin has a double value : it both cleanses and gives tone to the tissues. In all cases it should be done once or twice daily. In conditions of great weakness we may be content with sponging and dry rubbing of the surface. In the larger number of cases, it isLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 59 far more satisfactory to allow a rapid—really momentary—dip into a full bath, the tempera- ture of the water—which should be cool-—being regulated according to the season, so as to avoid undue shock. The patient must be comfortably and rapidly dried thereafter, preferably by nurse or other assistant. The first indication of real improvement is often observed when such bathing is commenced. (6) Medication.—Certain drugs are of service as aids towards increasing tissue resistance and repairing loss. In the foreground should be mentioned cod-liver oil, which is an excellent way of administering fat. Many patients take the oil with relish. It is a common experience that patients treated on open-air lines enjoy it more and assimilate it more easily than under other conditions. The hypophosphites of sodium and lime, and various preparations of malt, may be given on similar grounds. Arsenic is likewise helpful, more particularly in young subjects; its exhibition may be usefully main- tained for long periods. Thus liq. arsenicalis may be conveniently added to an emiilsion of cod-liver oil, or arsenious acid may be given in pill (gr. ijV-ts")- Or arsenic may be exhibited in the form of cacodylate of sodium. Strychnine may similarly prove beneficial. Glycerine, which forms an agreeable addition to many mixtures, is of some direct value, and may be advantage- ously pushed from time to time. Nucleins and nucleic acid have been ad- ministered in various ways. Their exhibition has been suggested because of their tendency to induce leucocytosis and their bactericidal properties. They may thus be, perhaps, credited with power to increase the resistance of the tissues and to disturb the bacilli more directly. Effects produced by adoption of Physiological Measures already described.—Before considering specific measures, it may be well to summarise the effects produced by the procedure already described and to add a few words regarding sanatoria and climate. (a) General Appearance.—Within a week or so of the adoption of the open-air system, the patient's colour and general appearance alter. The look of delicacy is replaced by an aspect of robustness, such as one recognises on ship-board. In other words, much of the familiar appear- ance of the consumptive patient is the expression of unphysiological, protective treatment. (6) Appetite and Digestion. — The patient quickly loses his digestive disability, nausea, sickness, and oppression. Appetite returns in remarkable fashion, and the increased quantity of food is commonly enjoyed without after- discomfort. Fats and other food-stuflfs which previously were declined are taken freely. The bowel regains a healthy habit. (c) Weight.—Flesh is rapidly made ; as much as two to six pounds may be added in a week's time. Usually the gain is steady and pro- gressive. (d) Cough.—This disappears practically after a little time. Apart from the occasional necessity of expectoration, cough need not be heard. The cough which occurs so frequently when the disease is treated in snug, confined bedrooms is in large part the expression of irritation by reason of exhavisted or fouled air. (e) Expjectoration.—Sputum speedily lessens ; it tends to become moi'e and more mucous, until it may finally disappear. Haemoptysis seldom occurs. (/) Night-Sweats.—This classic symptom dis- appears entirely. Before the commencement of treatment, patients may have sweated much— being changed four or five times in a night— and yet in three or four days' treatment, apart from special drugs, the manifestation disappears. Night-sweating must be regarded in chief part as an expression of faulty treatment. {g) Circulation.—Ihe pulse-rate lessens and each beat becomes more forcible. The blood- pressure generally is raised. It is no uncommon thing to record in 10-14 days a reduction in rate to the extent of 20-30 beats per minute, along with corresponding improvement in char- acter. Coldness of extremities and shiveriness similarly disappear. {h) Temjjerature.—Within a week or two— or at most a month or so—temperatures which have been swinging violently approximate the normal. In many cases the normal temperature is still more quickly reached ; the exceptional cases which resist are few. Sanatoria.—The therapeutic measures which have been described so far are most conveniently carried out in a sanatorium. The patient is taken more thoroughly in hand, strict regularity is introduced into his life, and slight aberrations from the path of recovery are quickly noted. Sanatorium regime must be credited with not only immediate therapeutic advantage, but also educative value of first moment for the rest of the patient's life. From the latter point of view, indeed, it is a wise plan to let a patient undergo sound sanatorium regime for some months, even if it is inconvenient to let him complete the cure. It must be kept in view, however, that the necessary measures may be practised at home, if the medical attendant have sufficient knowledge of, and faith in, the methods. In such case it is an enormous benefit if a nurse trained in the methods be in attendance on the case. It is unnecessary here to name individual sanatoria. Suffice it to say that well-managed sanatoria exist in every division of the United Kingdom and in many European countries. Having regard to the appalling frequency of the disease, there is room for much larger provision. More especially is there need for an increased number of sanatoria for the poorer classes, in-60 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS eluding persons in receipt of very limited incomes, which cease in case of illness. The existing sanatoria are not equally good. In selecting a sanatorium it is the thoroughness of regime and excellence of management rather than latitude which should be the guide. It is advantageous for the great majority of patients —and it is certainly possible—to be treated under the normal climatic conditions of the individiial. His cure can be attained and, other things being equal, should be under- taken under the conditions which he must meet when recovery has taken place. The question of climate is less significant than that of regime. Climate.—The special curative influence fre- quently attributed to certain climates cannot be maintained. The cure of pulmonary tuber- culosis may be successfully undertaken in ordinary climates, provided the air is pure, the physiological regime realisable, and the diag- nosis has been made sufficiently early. The experience of the Victoria Hospital affords remarkable testimony on this point. Patients have time after time been received from the healthiest counties and country-sides in Scot- land—the places to which consumptive patients are frequently sent—have arrived pallid and ill, and have regained colour and health in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh, whose climate has been sometimes decried unjustly as unwhole- some. Mere change to a better climate is commonly insufficient, and the conception is misleading. None the less is it true that wisely directed change of climate exerts a salutary influence, if other indications are fulfilled. There can be no doubt that much of the beneficial influence of certain climates is hopelessly lost, owing to the absence of intelligent appreciation or application of the major hygienic requirements. The sig- nificance of many climate resorts would be enormously enhanced if they possessed sanatoria or, at least, hotels built and conducted on sanitary principles. In proposing to send a patient to another climate, care must be taken that he is in a fit state to stand the fatigue and discomfort of journeying and hotel life, the absence of home attention, and the expense of the whole. It is a mistake to allow a patient far afield who has to economise at every turn. He must be informed that, wherever he is, the curative process is a matter of time, and many months, a year or two, even several years, may be required to ensure satisfactory recovery. It is not advisable to let pyrexic patients under- take long journeys. When complications are present, it is generally best to be content with hygienic measures nearer home. Above all, dying patients ought not to be sent abroad ; that is a hardship which both they and their friends may well be spared. The varieties of climate may be simply grouped thus:— 1. Sea-coast climates (including sea voyages). They have the advantage of pure air which is frequently in movement (ozone), a maximum of simlight, relatively equable temperature and warmth, according to their latitude. Most of them exert a sedative influence, and patients sleep well. But they may be windy, even boisterous, with clouds of sand, and there is more or less moisture. As examples of these may be mentioned the south and south-west coasts of England, the French and Italian Riviera, south-west coast of France (Arcachon, Biarritz), south-east coast of Spain, the Sicilian coast, north coast of Africa, Canary Islands, Madeira, West Indies, Florida. A sea voyage has theoretically the same kind of advantages, but their significance depends on the amount of time spent on deck. Unfortunately, both public and private cabins are commonly badly ventilated. If, for any reason, much time is spent in these, in corresponding proportion is the advantage lost. It is unwise to send patients on a sea voyage unless they have a distinct liking for the sea. The coast climates have a protective rather than a curative value. Hence they are service- able in chronic quiescent tuberculosis, and in cases complicated by catarrhal tendency or by albuminuria. They are advantageous for consumptive patients—particularly children— with glandular, osseous, or articular involve- ment. 2. Desert climates, which have the advantage of purity and dryness of air, and a maximum amount of sunshine and heat. As gravely counterbalancing disadvantage must be reckoned the frequency of dust-storms. As examples may be mentioned Helouan, Luxor, Assouan, Biskra. They are suitable for the same sort of cases as are coast climates. On slowly progressive cases they exert a curative influence. 3. Forest and woodlaivd climates of relatively small elevation (say 150-1500 feet). The character of these varies much with the latitude, distance from sea-board, and the kind of country. In addition to purity of air, some advantage is directly referable to the trees (shelter from wind, absence of dust, sweetness, even fragrance, of atmosphere, as in pine woods). As examples may be mentioned the Scottish, Welsh, and Irish Highlands, the Black Forest, Pan, Montreux, the Italian Lakes, Meran. All cases — even acute, progressive conditions—may be benefited by such climates, if only the local arrangements be satisfactory, and too great effort be not expended on the journey, and the stay be long enough. 4. Mountain climate, say 1500-10,000 feet or more. The variety is immense, according to the elevation. The advantages include purity, rarity, dryness, and coolness (coldness) ofLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 61 atmosphere, and great warmth and brilliance of sun's rays, and frequently extreme stillness. In healthy individuals the physiological effects of such climates are manifest; more particu- larly, they stimulate respiration, circulation, and blood formation, appetite, digestion, and activity of skin and venous system. For some individuals they are too stimulant, and sleeplessness and other manifestations of irritation supervene. As examples may be mentioned : in Switzerland, Les Avants (3200), Leysin (4757), Wiesen (4771), Arosa (6035), Davos Platz (5115), St. Moritz (6090); in South Africa, Cradock (3000), Beaufort West (2800), Aliwal North (4350), Tarkastad (4300), Harrismith (5250), Kimberley (4012), Burghersdorp (4650), Bloemfontein (4500), Pretoria (4500)—(in South Africa the dust-storms in dry weather are often trying, and the accommodation and food un- satisfactory) ; in North America, the Rocky Mountains (Colorado Springs, Las Vegas, Manitou, Denver); in South America, the Andes; in New South Wales, the Blue Mountains. Most cases, even if advanced, may benefit by such climates. Cases should not be sent in the acute stage, for reasons which have been indicated. Cases with complications, such as albuminuria, tuberculous laryngitis, or enteritis, are probably better elsewhere. In selecting, much attention should be devoted to the possibility of carrying out the hygienic measures, as food supplies and sanitary pro- visions are frequently defective. B. Measures for attaching the tubercle bacillus more directly, or 7ieutralising the products result- ing from the growth and development of the bacillus within the body. This is the specific, badly termed antiseptic, line of treatment. Unfortunately, we must admit that no specific exists in the practical sense. Were there an available specific, the problem of cure would be effectively solved by its use in combination with the rational lines already discussed. Of remedies which have been credited with activity in relation to the tubercle bacillus may be mentioned :— Tuberculin.—-This approaches most nearly to a specific. It exerts a remarkable influence on tuberculous foci. Two forms have been prepared by Koch. The original tuberculin is a glycerine extract obtained from recent (6-8 weeks old) bouillon cultures of the tubercle bacillus. The later tuberculin, or TR tuber- culin, is an extract obtained from recent, dried cultures after thoroughly pounding in a mortar. It is unnecessary to go into the details of the extraction. Prolonged observation in the use of the two is in favour of the original tuberculin. This certainly proves serviceable when used cautiously, in not too advanced cases, in minute doses (smaller than those first sanctioned) and at considerable intervals. The treatment should be commenced with 0-0005 gramme, or less. conveniently dissolved in ^ per cent carbolic acid solution. Such a dose produces a minimal reaction. In the course of 4-12 hours some degree of disturbance appears, including chilli- ness (possibly rigor), elevation of temperature (l°-3° F.), slight feeling of tiredness, headache, pains in limbs, and perhaps a little nausea. These last for some twelve hours or so. Asso- ciated with the general disturbance there is often an increase of local manifestations, cough, expectoration, and the physical signs may become more obvious. Analogous to the phenomena seen in lupus treated with tuber- culin, there occurs round the tuberculous foci in the lung a congestive process. In a day or so the little disturbance has disappeared. With still smaller doses the disturbance may be hardly traced. If in a week's time the same dose be repeated, the disturbance is considerably less marked. In the use of tuberculin it is a good rule to avoid producing disturbance. If the treatment be begun with a quarter of a milligramme and the successive increase be limited to a like amount, the disturbance is reduced to a mini- mum. Successive doses had better be separated by a week's interval, and the dose should be so regulated as to produce the least possible dis- turbance. The results justify the procedure. In many cases distinct, lasting benefit has been observed. If larger doses be employed, there is a risk of producing too violent a reaction. Thus a more lasting pyrexic disturbance may be established, and an extension of the disease be traceable by physical signs. The drug is administered by hypodermic syringe intramus- cularly, conveniently behind the shoulder. Other preparations, variously termed tubercu- locidin, antiphthisin, etc., have been obtained either from tuberculin or directly from cultures of the bacillus. The results of observation meantime do not warrant their regular intro- duction into practice. The same remark applies to the various preparations of serum which have been announced, especially by French and Italian workers. In some hands the results of treatment appear to have been moderately good, but hardly good enough to justify the recommendation of any one of them for practical purposes. Creosote and its Congeners.—Of drugs which have been credited with a specific influence, creosote (or one of its congeners) is the most important. There can be no doubt that it exerts a wholesome influence. Whether this is of strictly specific character is more difficult to say. Pure beechwood creosote is usually well borne by the stomach—indeed, exerts a directly beneficial influence on the gastro-intestinal tract. Cruder preparations of creosote, by reason of their con-osive properties, may cause consider- able irritation. As to dosage, it may be given in m. ij.-v. doses, gradually increased to rtl xv.-62 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS XX., three times daily. If it is pushed to the larger doses the kidneys should be watched. It may be exhibited in capsules on a full stomach, or dissolved in wine, or in emulsion with cod-liver oil. Of its congeners, guaiacol may be used similarly, or benzoate of guaiacol (benzosol). Still more certainly borne by the stomach is carbonate of guaiacol, which may be given in gradually increasing doses of gr. v.-xxv. thrice daily. It affords satisfactory results, and has the advantage of being odour- less and tasteless. Carbonate of creosote (creosotal) is a faintly bitter fluid, which may be given in doses of Ttl v.-xxx. thrice daily. Whichever preparation be selected, its use should be maintained continuously for weeks or months, if lasting benefit be expected. Menthol has been used with advantage both in lung and laryngeal tuberculosis. It is doubt- ful if it has any direct influence on the tuber- culous process. It is probably of significance rather in relation to mixed infections. It may be conveniently administered in 20 per cent solution in olive oil by intralaryngeal injection once or twice daily ; this method is very easy with practice. Symptomatically, the patient is often benefited. Camphor dissolved in oil has been introduced subcutaneously or intralaryngeally, or directly into the lung, with benefit. Or it may be given internally in the form of camphoric acid (gr. x.-xv. thrice daily). Eucalyptol is definitely beneficial. Under its continued use the symptoms, and notably the discharge, lessen. It may be administered by the mouth (ttl v.-xx. thrice daily), or it may be given subcutaneously, dissolved in liquid vaseline, or intralaryngeally, dissolved in olive or castor oil. Formalin. -Tlh.e constant inhalation of forma- lin (^-2 per cent) by means of simple oro-nasal mask covered with open muslin, which does not interfere with respiration, has resulted satis- factorily, especially in cases where both lung and larynx are involved. It is difficult to say whether its activity is in relation to the tubercle bacillus or other organisms (mixed infection). There can be no doubt that benefit results. Cinnamic acid has pi'oved of service. It certainly effects improvement symptomatically. It has been maintained that its continued use leads definitely to cicatrisation of tuberculous tissues. It may be given internally in the form of oil of cinnamon or oil of cassia (lU v.-x. pro dos.) added to an emulsion of cod-liver oil, or subcutaneously or intravenously in the form of cinnamic acid or cinnamate of sodium dis- solved in sterilised salt solution. Balsam of Peru, which has been used in various ways with benefit, probably owes its influence to the cinnamic acid present. Iodoform has been used with apparent benefit. It may be conveniently exhibited in pill form (gr. i.-v. or more) thrice daily. The other remedies vaunted as specifics are too numerous to mention. The list includes mercury, iodine, sulphuretted hydrogen (in- cluding the natural sulphuretted waters), carbolic acid, tar in various forms, ichthyol, resorcin, tannin, anilin. Atropine has been credited with antagonistic efficacy in relation to the circulating toxins. The surgical treatment of tuberculous vomicae has not been attended by encouraging results. Nor has the application of electricity or the Rontgen rays so far afforded very certain results. C. Measures for Relief of more Important Symptoms and Complications. — The sympto- matic treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis is not unimportant. It must be kept in view that such measures occupy a secondary place com- pared with the preceding' lines of treatment. In proportion as the larger measures are carried out, the necessity for symptomatic treatment is diminished (vide p. 59). We shall consider the more important symptoms and complications seriatim. Pain. — The cause should be determined. Where severe and due to recent pleurisy, a fly- blister is usually most serviceable, or the affected side may be strapped. In slighter pains, of less certain origin, iodine or mustard may be tried. When the pain is general, especially in children, a warm poultice or stupe is desirable, to which sedative agents may be added. At other times a rubefacient liniment or oil may prove sufficient. If the painful condition be more urgent, mor- phine may be required. Cough.—The cause of cough is various, and should be determined before treatment is adopted. Under the open-air treatment cough tends to disappear. The patient can assist greatly. The cough is often unnecessary, is of nervous origin, or a bad habit. None the less it is hurtful by putting stress on the lung and hastening the spread of disease. When un- necessary for expectoration {vide infra) and irritating, it should be restrained as much as possible. This is often best effected by codein (gr. \-^) conveniently given in glycerine (4 grs. ad 3j.), or dionin (gr. These are more desirable than heroin (gr. -gV'TV) morphine (gr. yV-J), which are more likely to produce disagreeable co-effects. In some cases, when there is tickling irritation about the throat, a menthol and cocaine pastille may be sufficient, or a spray of menthol dissolved in paroleine (5 per cent). Sometimes hyoscyamus, bella- donna, or lactucarium may prove helpful. In many cases nothing so certainly relieves cough as a blister over the manubrium sterni. It should be noted that frequently enough cough is induced or kept up by inhalations, e.g. of terebene, eucalyptus, etc. Expectoration. — Cough may be maintainedLUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS 63 because of difficulty in expectoration. This is true, especially of morning cough. The difficulty tends to disappear and cough lessens when the patient is allowed more air by night. When the difficulty is pronounced, expectorants may be required. One of the best in such case is a simple warm drink. The hot milk and rum, already referred to, may answer well, or the patient may have a warm alkaline drink, e.g. one of the natural alkaline waters. Of expectorants proper, the most valuable for the purpose are carbonate of ammonia, senega, quillaya, which may be combined with chloro- form. At other times ipecacuanha may be helpful. The catarrhal tendency—and thereby one cause of expectoration—is lessened by the use of terebene, terpine hydrate, or eucalyptol. Unless there is definite indication, it is in most cases best to withhold expectorants altogether. They should certainly be withheld if through their use the appetite or digestion suffers. Hcemoptysis.—(See special article " Htemop- tysis " in vol. iv.). The slighter manifestations of bleeding require no special treatment. Bleeding is much less frequent in patients under open-air regime. Pyrexia.—Under open-air methods fever tends to disappear in remarkable fashion. In order to this the patient cannot have too free and direct a supply of fresh air. Important assist- ance may also be got from hydrotherapeutic measures, e.g. sponging with cool or cold water. Sometimes the use of alkaline solutions for this purpose is helpful; at other times the addition of eau de cologne or other spirit is grateful. The external application of guaiacol (5-20 per cent in olive oil) has sometimes proved service- able. If there be evidence of a local extension of disease, a blister over the seat of mischief tends to reduce the associated pyrexia. Anti- pyretic drugs are seldom desirable; while it is easy enough to lower the temperature by their use, the complete effect on the patient is less satisfactory. Probably quinine in moderate doses is the most satisfactory all round. It may be conveniently given in pill (gr. ss.-ii. thrice daily), say in combination with digitalis and strychnine, if these are indicated. More rarely, when the discomfort attendant on pyi-exia is con- siderable, phenacetin, antipyrin, or pyramidon may be given in doses of gr. v.-xv. This only on occasion, and to be repeated as seldom as possible. Sometimes the administration of alcohol (whisky, brandy) in appropriate dose, an hour or so before the temperature tends to rise, is efficacious by anticipation. Sickness, Vomiting, and other Digestive Trouble. —These are reduced to a minimum under open- air methods. They are difficult to treat apart from such regime, for which they indeed form a leading indication. If in spite of this they persist, it is a good rule to make sure that they are not caused by diet or medicines. The latter had better be omitted entirely and the former simplified. Sometimes a rigid milk diet is effective, at other times a concentrated raw meat dietary. A glass of boiling water taken sip by sip two or three hours after food or half an hour before meals, may prove serviceable. This is to be preferred to the sucking of ice. The tendency to sickness after meals is often got rid of, if the meals be taken in the re- cumbent posture. The occasional use, say every second day, of minute doses of grey powder (gr. ss.-i.) sometimes acts like a charm. Relief may follow the exhibition of creosote, iodine, or similar drug—taken after food or well diluted. Or bismuth may be given in full doses at meal-times. Sometimes a mustard poultice over the stomach proves serviceable. Flagging appetite may be assisted by the use of ordinary bitters, while the patient is resting, half an hour before food, or it may be by a little acid and glycerine, e.g. acid, nitrohydro- chloric. dil. rrt v.-x., acid, hydrocyanic dil. vi\ iv., glycerin. 53. ex aq. Diarrhoea.—The cause of diarrhoea must be carefully determined. It may depend on (1) irritation through medicines or food-stuffs intro- duced ; (2) catarrhal condition of bowel; (3) lardaceous disease ; (4) tuberculous involvement of bowel. When it seems due to irritation, all medicines should be stopped forthwith, and the diet simplified as proposed in the last paragraph. It may be desirable to clear out the bowel by simple purgative, e.g. castor-oil, or enema. If there be no more definite indication of catarrh or lardaceous disease, a milk diet is commonly serviceable. In such cases the use of bismuth in full doses is helpful. The liquor calcis saccharatus or other chalk preparation, with or without opium, or kino, catechu, or logwood, may be tried. Such preparations may be serviceable in slighter manifestations of tuber- culous involvement. In this case, however, a rigidly simplified dietary must be instituted. Intestinal antiseptics, astringents, and sedatives are called for; these include salicylate of bis- muth, salol, tannin, tannigen, tannalbin, acetate of lead, oxide of zinc, sulphate of copper, and opium in one or other form. The secondary ancemia of pulmonary tuber- culosis is best treated with arsenic. This is commonly more successful than iron. Arsenic seems sometimes of service in relation to chronic enlargements of glands. Where glandular dis- turbance is localised and threatens to be troublesome, the sooner the glands are dealt with surgically the better. Circulatory enfeehlement is chiefly met by means of rest, as much as possible in the open air. The patients must, however, be kept warm. The extremities must be properly covered. Alcohol is frequently indicated, and digitalis in combination with strychnine is of much value.64 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—TUBERCULOSIS Night-Sweating. ■—Under proper fresh-air regime night-sweats are practically unknown. Patients are frequently admitted, requiring to be changed several times in the night, and within a week their night-sweating ceases entirely. Where the tendency exists, in addition to the open-air regime and light clothing, benefit is had from sponging—it may be with acidulated water—and dry rubbing, and, where not other- wise contraindicated, bathing and douching. Dusting of the surface with tannoform powder may prove helpful in cases where open-air methods in fullest sense are difficult of attain- ment, and camphoric acid (gr. x.-xv.) internally. Atropine, picrotoxin, and agaricin may also be mentioned. It is a mistake, however, to ad- minister remedies for a symptom which can be more simply and physiologically removed. Sleeplessness is remarkably lessened under the open-air regime. Where in spite of this it continues, it may be relieved by a warm cup of soup or milk and whisky. Of drugs, par- aldehyde (5j.-5jss.) is one of the most serviceable. Sulphonal (gr. xv.-xx. carefully dissolved in hot fluid) or trional (gr. x.-xv.) is sometimes success- ful. If cough or other irritating condition prevent sleep, a slight narcotic—codein, dionin, or even morphine—may be necessary. In all cases the state of the gastro-intestinal tract must be looked to. Sleeplessness may result from foolish endeavours after forced feeding. The treatment of complications, such as genito-urinary, laryngeal, and meningeal tuber- culosis, is considered elsewhere. The treatment of acute miliary tuberculosis can meantime be symptomatic only. Nor are the results of treatment encouraging. Pulmonary Fibrosis General Description . . , . .64 Etiology ...... 64 Pathological Anatomy .... 65 Clinical Features ..... 65 Physical Signs ..... 66 Diagnosis ...... 66 Prognosis ...... 67 Treatment ...... 67 Synonyms : Chronic Interstitial Pneumonia, Cirrhosis of Lung, Fibroid Phthisis} General Description.—It is easier to define pulmonary fibrosis from the anatomical than from the clinical standpoint. Histologically, it consists in an increase of the fibrous tissue elements of the lung at the expense of the air cells and passages, blood-vessels, and more distant organs. Viewed thus, pulmonary fibrosis is a highly important pathological process of far- ^ The term Fibroid Phthisis is objectionable. By older writers, and more recently by Andrew Clark and others, it has been used to include conditions which would have been better designated chronic tuberculosis. The term had better be dropped. reaching significance, but can hardly be regarded as a clinical entity. It is an essential factor in the progress of several different lung conditions. Thus it plays a leading part in relation to the very large group of chronic pulmonary tubercu- losis {(j[.v.). Proliferative changes in connective tissue elements occur early in pulmonary tuberculosis, and in chronic tuberculosis fibrosis becomes a marked feature. Similarly, fibrosis of lung tissue has etiological relationships with other organic poisons, e.g. the syphilitic. To this category may also, perhaps, be relegated cirrhotic changes developing in connection with broncho-pneumonia, in the wake of measles, whooping-cough, and other infective processes, and those which, it may be admitted, occasion- ally follow croupous pneumonia. Again, pul- monary fibrosis is a conspicuous feature in many cases of pneumonokoniosis (q.v.), more particu- larly those which occur in stone or metal workers. Without further dwelling on this meantime, it may be said generally that pulmonary fibrosis is an expression of irritation. In relation to organic irritants the fibrosis results from the activity of organisms or their toxic products. At other times the irritation is mechanical. Whatever the nature of the irritation, the resulting fibrosis is much the same, affecting variously the peribronchial, perivascular, inter- alveolar, interlobular, or subpleural connective tissue. Moreover, the clinical expression of fibrosis is alike, whatever the cause, consisting especially in cough and dyspnoea, with physical signs of consolidation and shrinkage. The various names applied to the condition— pulmonary fibrosis, chronic interstitial pneu- monia, and the like—-were introduced at a time when etiological relationships were less well understood. With refinement of etiological knowledge the position of chronic interstitial pneumonia as a distinct disease has become imperilled. It remains a question whether it is better to name a disease in relation to etio- logical factors or to the leading effects. The former is the more modern conception and method. According to this, pulmonary fibrosis falls to be described in connection with a number of different diseases. Nevertheless, pulmonary fibrosis serves conveniently to de- scribe a conspicuous morbid process apt to be induced by irritation of different kinds, and followed by certain consequents in connection with lung function and circulation. Etiology. — The causes which produce in- crease of fibrous tissue are numerous. The list includes a considerable variety of irritants which reach the lungs in different ways. In some cases the resulting fibrosis is slight and only determinable on minute examination ; at other times it bulks so largely that the primary etiological factor may be overshadowed. A sufficient scrutiny will reveal the existence of an irritant in all cases.65 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS The irritant may reach the lung (a) by in- halation, (6) by lymph channels, (c) by blood channels. (a) By Inhalation.—This method of approach is illustrated by many cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, and by the large group of pneu- monokonioses. In both, the irritant finds its way through the respiratory passages to the alveoli. Reaching the interalveolar spaces, it becomes thereafter disseminated throughout the lung by way of lymph channels. Proliferative changes are determined along the entire line of progress. Broncho-pneumonia in children, more particularly after measles, whooping-cough, and other infective processes, is apt to be sluggish and to become associated with more permanent indurative changes. Such changes commence in relation to the delicate alveolar wall. The condition is frequently the starting-point of pul- monary tuberculosis. Acute lobar pneumonia is only rarely followed by fibrosis, the lung remain- ing comparatively solid and resistant. This is the condition described by Addison, who recognised its infrequency, as "uniform albuminous in- duration." Some have considered such cases as of less acute nature from the first, describing them under such names as "primary paren- chymatous pneumonia" (Heitler), or "subacute indurative pneumonia" (Kidd). The termino- logy seems hardly to cover all cases. Foreign bodies entering the bronchi per vias naturales frequently induce changes in the bronchi (bronchiectasis), and secondarily in the neigh- bouring lung tissue. A large part of a lobe may thus be indurated. More commonly bronchiectasis is determined in relation to a pre-existing indurative fibrosis as a result of cicatrisation and shrinkage. (6) By Lymph Channels.—This has been in- cidentally alluded to in the preceding paragraph. Consequent on chronic bronchitis or bronchi- ectasis produced by whatever cause, some degree of fibrosis commonly supervenes in the peri- bronchial and neighbouring tissue. A similar process may start in relation to pleurisy. In the wake of a pleurisy with effusion, adhesions and thickening of pleural layers may remain. This frequently is associated with thickening of interlobular septa and increase of fibrous tissue more generally throughout the lung. Similarly, the presence of a malignant growth of pleura, lung, or adjacent structures tends to induce fibrous changes in the neighbouring pulmonary tissues. A like effect may be traced to pressure by an aneurysm. (c) By Blood Channels.—Syphilis affords an excellent illustration of an irritant acting by way of the blood. The eO'ects of irritation induced by the syphilitic virus are seen in the adult in the increase of fibrous tissue round about a gummatous deposit, or the cicatricial remains which mark the place where a gumma has been. Congenitally, the effects are seen in VOL. VI the so-called " interstitial pneumonia " of infants, when there is abundant evidence of pulmonary fibrosis. It has been suggested by some that alcohol acts as an irritant on lung structures, producing, in relation to its carriage through the pulmonary vessels and exhalation by the lungs, fibrous changes analogous to the fibrous changes which it induces in the liver and kidney. There is, however, little evidence in support of the view. Pathological Anatomy.—Pulmonary fibrosis occurs as part manifestation in a large variety of conditions. The morbid appearances pre- sented in different cases are considered under their appropriate heads, e.g. pulmonary tuber- culosis, pneumonokoniosis, bronchiectasis, etc. (q.v.). It may be serviceable, however, to recall the leading characters of the fibrous lung. The pleural surface is commonly adherent and the pleural membrane thickened. The pleural thickening may be immense, amounting to j-^ inch. The lung feels more or less dense, and airless. The degree of this depends on the distribution of the morbid process. The fibrous change may be universal and bilateral; at other times it is unilateral. It may be lobar or lobular, or localised to a particular area, e.g. in relation to a new growth or the like. On section the affected portion is found to be tough ; it may be of tendinous or cartilaginous hard- ness, and even gritty. Throughout a greater or less extent strands or patches of light or dark grey colour, and varying size, are traceable. These are often extra dense and cartilaginous. The pigmentary deposit is frequently great. Bronchiectasis, either cylindrical or saccular, is generally present. The less affected portions of the lung are frequently emphysematous; if one lung chiefly is fibrous, the other lung may be extremely emphysematous. The right side of the heart is commonly enlarged. Dilatation of the right ventricle is the general rule. Microscopical examination of the denser por- tions of lung tissue reveals enormous increase of fibrous tissue elements. This may be found on the alveolar wall, and throughout the pulmonary framework. It may be diff"usely distributed or concentrated round the bronchi or vessels, or disposed in relation to interlobular septa and pleural layers. There may not be a trace of the normal alveolar structure. The new fibrous tissue formation may appear as close as the fibrous tissue of a tendon. Micro- scopically, there may be further evidence of concomitant pulmonary tuberculosis, pneumo- nokoniosis, emphysema, etc. Clinical Features.—It is not an easy matter clinically to isolate pulmonary fibrosis from conditions with which it may be associated. Whatever its etiological relations may be, the process itself is essentially a chronic one. The symptoms in diff'erent instances resemble, in 5LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS 66 varying degree, those of chronic bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pneumonokoniosis, and pulmo- nary tubercnlosis. Dyspnoea is frequently a leading symptom. This is naturally increased on exertion. There is commonly more or less cough, which tends to become aggravated from time to time. Ex- pectoration varies in amount and character: it may be slight or very abundant; it may be discharged paroxysmally in bouts {vide " Bron- chiectasis "); it may be mucous, mucopurulent, or purulent. Sometimes it is more or less foetid, and may present other characters of bronchiectatic sputum. Theoretically, the ab- sence of tubercle bacilli from the expectoration points to its non-tuberculous nature. It must be borne in mind, however, that in tuberculous fibrosis the bacilli are relatively scanty and may not be discovered in the expectoration. Further, a case which may primarily have been non-tubercvilous may later become tuberculous through subsequent inoculation. Htemoptysis occurs from time to time, and may be severe (bronchiectasis, tubercle). Granted that there is present no progressive lesion, such as pulmonary tviberculosis, or other complication such as bronchiectasis, there is likely to be little constitutional disturbance. There may be no pyrexia and little circulatory prejudice. The patient tends gradually to get thinner. There is often clubbing of the fingers and toes. But the progress is slow, and the condition remains sometimes little changed for many years. If tuberculosis or bronchiectasis be present, the patient is liable to the various accidents which occur in relation to these pro- cesses. The existence and advance of the pro- cess, slow as the latter may be, means strain on the right heart. How long can the heart continue to cope with the extra strain'? That depends on the nutrition of the patient, and more particularly of the heart muscle and on the extra calls on the circulation which the necessities of life and work may entail. So long as the resources of the right heart are equal to the demand, things may go well. If the right heart prove insufficient, evidence of venous stagnation will be forthcoming, and oedema of extremities and viscera. Physical Signs.—Inspectioii.—One or both sides of the chest, over a greater or a less area, may show flattening and shrinkage dependent on retraction of lung. The intercostal spaces may be unusually hollowed. The vertebral column may be twisted. The cardiac apex beat may be displaced owing to traction exerted on the heart. Pulsation may be evident in un- usual areas owing to undue exposure of heart and major vessels through retraction of lung. The pulmonary excursion in whole or part is diminished. Palpation affords confirmatory evidence. Reduction in the size of the chest may bo definitely ascertained on mensuration. The flattened, irregular outline may be recorded by the cyrtometer. The vocal fremitus may be increased. It is often diminished. The latter result depends chiefly on the considerable thickening of the pleura which is commonly present. Percussion educes dulness over a more or less extensive area. The dulness varies in degree, but is frequently absolute. It may be associated with tympanitic resonance (bronchiectasis) or cracked-pot sound (bronchi- ectasis), or with varying degrees of simple hyper- resonance (emphysema). Auscultation reveals usually enfeeblement of respiratory murmur, which may be indeterminate or may be definitely bronchial. Accompaniments are sometimes audible, either rhonchi or crepitations. The latter may be fine or, more commonly, coarse. Vocal resonance is frequently increased, but may be diminished. If bronchiectasis {q.v.) be present, cavernous or amphoric breathing, and the other signs of a vomica, may be discovered. Similarly, emphysema {q.v.) will yield character- istic signs. There may be physical signs from the side of other organs. Thus the heart may be drawn upwards or displaced to one or other side, according to the direction of traction. Similarly, the diaphragm may be drawn upwards, with corresponding displacement of the immediately underlying abdominal organs (liver, spleen, and stomach). There may be evidence of enlarge- ment of the right heart (dilatation, hyper- trophy). With the continuance of this process this is likely to be progressive. There may be evidence of engorgement of veins and oedema of extremities and viscera. Diagnosis. — Pulmonary fibrosis is to be suspected in presence of symptoms of chronic respiratory disturbance, notably dyspnoea, cough, and expectoration, coincidently with certain physical signs pointing to cicatricial contraction. The physical signs include, on inspection and palpation, evidence of shrinkage, more particu- larly of one side or a part of one side of the chest, and displacement of heart and other organs, and deformity of the spinal column. This is corroborated by dulness on percussion, associated perhaps with the signs of emphysema elsewhere, or of bronchiectasis or vomica forma- tion. The diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis in the wide sense is not a difficult matter. It is less easy to refine the diagnosis by the determination in each case of the etiological relationships of the fibrosis. As has been already pointed out, many cases of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis are loosely spoken of as pulmonary fibrosis or fibroid phthisis. The exact diagnosis may be arrived at, however, by attention to tlie history, distribution of the disease, character of the physical signs, and particularly by the presence or absence of tuberculous lesions else- where and of the tubercle bacillus, which should be sought in the expectoration. In really67 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—FIBROSIS doubtful cases the tuberculin test may prove serviceable (see p. 49). In like manner the pulmonary fibrosis dependent on pnemnono- koniosis can commonly be recognised by the history of the patient, occupation, character of expectoration, and the nature and distriVjution of physical signs. Pulmonary fibrosis of syphilitic origin does not commonly present itself for clinical separation. If the question should be raised, the history of the patient, the presence or absence of other evidence of syphilis, and the result of the therapeutic test, will be considered. Again, the determination of bronchiectasis by means of physical signs may lead to the discovery of etiological relationships, which throw a flood of light on the nature of the fibrosis. In a small number of cases it may be difficult to separate between empyema and pulmonary fibrosis. More especially it is oc- casionally difficult to distinguish between the state of things which is established, when an empyema ruptures into the lung and discharges by the air-passages, and pulmonary fibrosis with bronchiectatic cavities which discharge their foetid contents intermittently. A careful analy- sis of the patient's history and the sequence of events is most serviceable. Sometimes explora- tory puncture may decide the point. From what has been said it will be apparent that while the simpler diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis is, as a rule, easy enough, the ultimate diagnosis of the etiological relationship may prove a matter of some delicacy and even difficulty. Prognosis. — The condition is incurable in the strict sense of the term. But the process is essentially slow: the patient may live for many years. Frequently the disease seems to make little progress from year to year, so long as the patient's nutrition and general condition are well maintained. The prognosis is affected necessarily by the extent of lung tissue involved. The ultimate prognosis is chiefly dependent on the removability or curability of the causal factor, and on the amount of constitutional disturbance which has been induced. There is a liability to dilatation of the right heart, venous stasis, and oedema of extremities and viscera. Or hsemorrhage may occur from ulceration of a bronchiectatic cavity. Or a septic broncho-pneumonia or gangrene may be established. Or secondary abscess may be produced within the brain, or more widespread blood-poisoning from such foetid cavities. Treatment.—Prophylactic.—The most im- portant indication is to rectify, as far as possible, all conditions of life, residence, occupation, or habits, which might intensify the process or otherwise damage the already prejudiced lung. Exposure to close or dusty atmospheres and to frequent alternations of temperature must be avoided. An abundant supply of fresh air and sunlight is to be sought for—preferably in the open air. When the patient can afford it, this is the kind of affection in the treatment of which protective climatic influences are especially serviceable. The downward process is retarded and risks are avoided by winter residence on the south coast of our islands or the Riviera, or in Sicily, Algiers, Egypt, Madeira, and the like. A similar benefit is often experienced by a long sea voyage through sunny waters. Therapeutic.—Not much can be done to cure the disease. Our chief aim is to prevent its getting worse. In certain cases the exhibition of constitutional remedies, as against tuber- culosis or syphilis^ will prove beneficial. The general nutrition of the patient must be main- tained in as perfect a state as possible. The heart must be rested sufficiently, and there should be an avoidance of extra strain on all occasions. At the same time a certain amount of activity in the open air is advisable in the absence of immediate contraindication. Cardiac tonics may prove serviceable from time to time. In other respects the treatment will be chiefly symptomatic, and guided by the principles applicable to bronchitis, bronchiectasis, pulmo- nary tuberculosis, and other chronic pulmonary affections. Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis General Description .... 67 Historical ...... 68 Etiology ...... 68 (1) Du&t of Vegetable Origin . . 68 (2) Dust of Animal Origin . . 69 (3) Inorganic Dust . . . .69 Pathological Anatomy . . . .69 (1) Anthracosis . 69 (2) Chalicosis 70 Clinical Features .... 70 Physical Signs ..... 70 Diagnosis ...... 70 Prognosis ...... 70 Treatment— A. Prophylactic .... 70 B. Therapeutic . . . .71 General Description. — Pneumonokoniosis signifies a condition of lungs and bronchial passages produced by continued inhalation of dust particles (Trveu/Awv, lung; Kovts, dust). Evei-yone inhales a certain amount of dust. In cities, by reason of a variety of factors, and more especially during the colder seasons, when the consumption of fuel is increased, the amount inhaled becomes greater. In certain occupations the workers are conspicuously liable to dust inhalation. The nature of the dust varies in different instances. (1) It may be of vegetable origin. Of this group, the most frequent and classic example is carbon, in one or other form. While all persons are more or less liable to inhale coal dust, coal-miners tend to suffer especially, al- though to a less extent than formerly, becauseLUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 68 of improved methods of ventilation. The re- sultant condition is termed anthracosis. Other dusts of vegetable origin will be referred to presently. (2) It may be of animal origin. In this group are to be included dust particles from wool, hair, and the like. (3) It may be of inorganic origin. This may take the form of {a) stone or similar dust (chalicosis), or (b) metal dust of different metals (sidefvsis). Historical. — Indications are not wanting that the results of inhalation of dust particles had occupied the attention of observers previ- ously, but it is only in the literature of the nineteenth century that we find any serious consideration of the subject. Early in the century keen discussion occurred regarding the nature of the pigmentary change discovered in certain lungs. There was at one time strong backing of the view that the pigmentation resulted from altered blood pigment. This view was completely overturned by reason of careful chemical, microscopical, and experi- mental observations. More particularly, in the beautiful researches of Arnold the progress of the dust particles through the lymph channels and their deposition in different structures were demonstrated. There is no longer any doubt as to the fact of absorption and deposition within the lung tissues of particles of dust of various kinds. More recent discussion has turned on the nature and cause of associated changes discovered in the lungs. Are these to be interpreted as consequential on the presence and irritation of the inhaled particles'? Or, as has been suggested, are the particles especially deposited where a morbid condition of lung structures previously exists? Or does the in- halation of dust particles prepare the way for the entrance of micro-organisms, which in turn effect the major portion of the tissue changes'? What, for example, is the relationship between the inhalation of dust particles and the advent of pulmonory tuberculosis'? Etiology.—Under strictly normal conditions, the major portion of the dust disseminated in the atmosphere becomes arrested in inhalation by the hairs at the entrance to the nostrils, the moisture of the nasal mucous membrane, and the ciliated epithelium of the main passages. When for any reason—or apart from such— normal nose breathing is replaced by mouth breathing, the means of filtration are in large part lost, and the dust particles of the ordinary atmosphere pass more directly into the air- passages. Or again, if dust particles be in excess in any atmosphere, the ordinary methods of filtration prove insufficient. The particles pass downwards into the larynx and trachea, and, acting as foreign bodies, lead to increased mucous secretion, by which they are in turn entangled and got rid of, at least in part. This is evidenced by the greyish mucous dis- charge which is expectorated after prolonged exposure to dust inhalation, e.g. in travelling on dusty and dirty railroads or occupying an insufficiently ventilated smoke-room. In still more marked degree it is evidenced by the black spit of miners, which continues so long as their underground life is kept up and may disappear on a change of occupation. If the exposure to dust inhalation be maintained, the integrity of the lung tissue is disturbed, and this in a variety of ways, according to the nature of dust inhaled. Dust of Vegetable Origin.—Of this group the most important member is carbon (smoke, coal- dust, soot, etc.). The coal-miner is especially likely to suffer. The etiological influence of carbon dust has been restricted much by im- provements effected in relation to the ventila- tion of mines, so that the occurrence of a solidified, black lung {anthracosis) is much less common than it used to be. What is the effect of the continued inhalation of coal dusf? It is quite certain that a large amount of such dust may be inhaled without causing permanent damage. In many cases it gives rise to some degree of irritation of the passages (naso-pharyngitis, laryngitis, tracheitis, bronchitis). Bronchial catarrh may lead second- arily, through coughing, to emphysema. But the dust particles do not pass through the mucous membrane of the passages. In the bronchi an effectual barrier is formed by the basement membrane. The continued catarrhal condition of the bronchi, however, facilitates the passage of the particles downwards until the alveoli are reached. At this point the particles are in part absorbed by the lining endothelium. In still larger number they pass between the alveolar cells and obtain entrance into the lymph channels. Now they are hurried on more rapidly in the lymph stream. At suc- cessive points they get deposited in the peri- bronchial and perivascular tissues. In course of time the fibrous structure of the interlobular septa and the deeper layer of the pleura is reached, and the bronchial, retrobronchial, and tracheal glands are invaded. The various tissues become blackened to a less or greater degree according to the amount of absorption. The pigment particles are carried to still more distant organs. It has been maintained that this process may be continued indefinitely without injury to the lung. The statement must be received with much reserve. It seems reasonable to expect that there should come a time when the continuous absorption of carbon particles must effect more than mere pigmenta- tion of lung and gland structures. The lym- phatic circulation may become, in point of fact, seriously impeded, and actual necrosis and sloughing of lung tissue result. None the less is it true that the process may be continued for a long period without the production of the graver disturbance.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 69 Similar results, without the evident pigmen- tation, follow the inhalation of other vegetable dusts. Of these may be mentioned flour and other grain products, tobacco, jute, cotton, saw, and other wood dusts. In this way millers, factory workers, carpenters, and the like suffer. To this group ought strictly to be added various micro-organisms which frequently reach the system by inhalation, it may be along with dust particles. Inasmuch as these more com- monly give rise to acute processes, which are described under special names—the various fevers, etc.—they need not be further referred to now. (2) Dust of Animal Origin.—Dust of this nature occurs in relation to a number of manu- factures. It is sufficient to cite wool, hair, feathers, silk, horn, ivory—workers among which are liable to inhale the respective dust. But the dust particles are less abundant, and apart from irritation of the upper air-passages and resulting catarrh, seldom give rise to pulmonary changes of moment. (3) Dust of Inorganic Origin.—This may be either of the nature of stone dust, in which silica or silicate of alumina is a chief element (chalicosis, lithosis, silicosis), or of the nature of metal dust of different sorts (siderosis). In this fashion stone-masons, mill-stone makers, glass-cutters, potters, various metal-workers, and the like may suffer. Sometimes stone and metal dusts are combined, as in the case of polishers. The sharp particles of stone or metal dust lead to more pronounced irritation of the re- spiratory passages. In addition, when the particles reach the alveoli and enter the lung parenchyma they effect a hyperplasia of con- nective tissue elements—a reactionary fibrosis or cirrhosis. The fibrous change gradually extends. This parenchymatous condensation or consolidation becomes associated with pleural thickening and adhesion, and, it may be, with bronchiectasis. Stone-mason's fibrosis is more likely to be produced by the dust from lime- and sand-stone than that from harder volcanic stone, such as granite, in which the particles are larger and heavier and tend quickly to fall to the ground. Hence the affection is com- moner in the Edinburgh district than about Aberdeen, where granite is especially used for building purposes. It is also noteworthy that it is the hewing mason rather than the building mason who especially suffers. The further fate of such a damaged lung is various. There can be no doubt that the con- tinued inhalation of dust particles, more particularly those of more irritating form and substance, tends to reduce the resisting power of the lung to invading organisms. Thus a stone-mason's lung, which for months or years may present negative evidence in respect of tuberculosis, is apt later on to fall a prey to the tubercle bacillus, as may be proved by the determination of tubercle bacilli in the expec- toration and post-mortem in the tissues. Pathological Anatomy.—The nature of the pathological changes which result from the inhalation of dust particles is in part the same in all instances. There is always evidence of chronic bronchitis and peribronchitis, and of pigmentation more or less intense and more or less widely distributed in different cases. There is frequently some degree of reactionary fibrosis. There is commonly enlargement of bronchial glands and involvement of pleura. In certain details the morbid appearances differ in different cases. The variation is governed especially by two factors, (a) The character of the inhaled dust, whether soft and relatively non-irritating, of which the type may be found in carbon particles (anthracosis); or sharp and irritating, of which the type may be found in stone or metal dust (chalicosis, siderosis). {b) The colour of the inhaled dust. The range of variation is not very wide. The prevailing colour is black or grey-black. Occasionally a brownish-red tint occurs from inhalation of oxide of iron, or a violet tinge from ultramarine. It will suffice to take two examples for more systematic description. (1) Anthracosis.—To the naked eye, the coal- miner's lung appears much blacker than normal. Pigmentation, which is found to some extent in every adult's lung, and especially so among town dwellers, is present in enormous excess. The pleural surface, which usually shows adhesions, is of bluish-black colour. Here and there patches or nodules of darker colour are conspicuous. The cut surface presents a similar appearance. While the pigmentation is dis- tributed more or less widely throughout the lung, it is found agglomerated in patches, nodules, or streaks. Some degree of emphysema is usually present. Frequently enough osdema may be present towards the base, and the fluid which exudes may be black. The bronchi are commonly congested and thickened. Similar changes are found in relation to the peri- bronchial tissues. Fibrosis is relatively slight as compared with that found in the stone- mason's lung. Occasionally there is indication of localised necrosis and excavation—perhaps from overcharging of the lymph channels by dust or from secondary tuberculous involve- ment. The bronchial glands are, as a rule, enlarged and pigmented. On microscopic examination the alveolar wall is found distorted in outline. Pigment is present in the alveolar epithelium, both attached and shed. It is also discoverable in the interspaces throughout the lymphatic channels, in the peribronchial and perivascular tissue, the interlobular septa, the deeper layer of the pleura, and the bronchial glands.LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS 70 (2) Chalicosis. — On naked-eye examination the stone-mason's lung appears darker and more solid and bulkier than the normal lung. Sometimes it is shrunken and contracted. Patches and nodules of increased resistance occur here and there. The pleura is commonly adherent, thickened, and irregularly puckered. The cut surface is pigmented, tough, and frequently gritty. The fibrous thickening of the pleura and interlobular septa is very obvious. There is a more or less general fibrosis throughout the lung. In some cases the fibrous areas appear tuberculous; other portions of the lung may be emphysematous. The bronchi are congested and thickened, and often manifest bronchiectatic dilatation. The bronchial glands are enlarged and much indurated. On microscopic examination there is revealed a remarkable increase in the connective tissue elements. The fibrosis affects more especially the pleura, interlobular septa, peribronchial and perivascular tissues. The indurated patches and nodules are seen to be composed of fibrous tissue elements, among which may be detected pigment particles and spicules of stone dust. Some of the fibrous areas yield characteristic evidence of tuberculosis. The determination of the nature of the inhaled dust may be assisted by chemical methods. When the loading of the lung with dust particles is extreme, and more particularly when fibrosis is marked or emphysematous changes are pronounced, the right heart is found more or less dilated. The degree of hypertrophic change is small. Clinical Features.—Apart from the fact that they occur in persons exposed to the inhalation of one or other kind of dust, the clinical manifestations are not distinctive. They resemble those of chronic bronchitis or tuberculosis. Cough and dyspnoea are the chief. The cough develops insidiously, becom- ing more persistent and stubborn as the patient continues exposed to the influence of the dust. Frequently there is a good deal of wheezing. Dyspnoea gradually advances until it becomes a marked feature. In some cases it is extreme ; this may be due to several causes: viz., bronchitis, fibrosis, emphysema, and dilatation of right heart. Expectoration, which is more or less abundant, resembles that of chronic bronchitis. It may contain evidence of the inhaled dust, e.g. coal dust, cotton or other fibres, gritty, silicious, or metallic particles, according to the occupation of the worker. Sometimes the expectoration is foetid from the presence of bronchiectasis. Hajmoptysis may occur either in relation to bronchiectasis or pulmonary tuberculosis. The latter supervenes frequently enough in the later stages of stone- mason's disease, and tubercle bacilli may be found in the expectoration. In such case. the patient's downward progress is more rapid, with evidence of constitutional disorder. Cyanosis may be pronounced. The duration of the disease is commonly lengthy. In proportion as the patient can be removed from the disturbing influence— especially at an early stage — the chance of recovery or arrest is good; otherwise, the condition is apt to get gradually worse. Dyspnoea, cough, pallor, and constitutional enfeeblement increase. Death may be induced by exhaustion, or the causes which determine the fatal issue in bronchitis, bronchiectasis, em- physema, gangrene, or pulmonary tuberculosis. Physical S IGNS. — These are likewise not characteristic. They are the signs of chronic bronchitis, consolidation, emphysema, and per- haps bronchiectasis. If tuberculosis have been grafted on, the signs will vary as in chronic tuberculosis, including perhaps those of vomica formation. The right heart tends to be dilated. Diagnosis.—This rests chiefly on the existence of symptoms of chronic bronchial and pulmonary disturbance in a patient whose occupation necessitates residence during working hours in a dusty atmosphere. In such cases it is fair to assume that inhalation of dust plays the chief part in causation. The character, amount, and distribution of the disturbance may be gauged by physical signs in lungs and heart. 'The possible occurrence of tuberculous inoculation must be kept in view. A process, non-tuber- culous at the start, may later take on tuber- culous character. Tubercle bacilli should, therefore, be sought for. Other diagnostic points are fully discussed under Pulmonary Tuberculosis (p. 48). Prognosis.—When there is no doubt as to the etiological factor, the prognosis chiefly hinges on the possibility of removing the patient from the cause of irritation or improving his working conditions by freer ventilation. Imme- diately, the prognosis rests on the degree of dyspnoea present. If bronchial irritation con- tinues, fibrosis and emphysema increase. These lead, in turn, to dilatation of the right heart, and so to more widespread circulatory failure. The occurrence of complicating bronchiectasis, necrosis, or tuberculosis necessarily increases the gravity of the outlook. Treatment.—A. Prophylactic.—Both the in- dividual and local authorities require to be better informed regarding the danger of dusty occupations. There is too great a tendency to take the existing order of things as a matter of course. A remarkable diminution in the frequency of anthracosis has followed the better ventilation of mines. The same principle should be adopted in relation to all dusty work- rooms and building-sheds. The individual is too apt to attribute his cough and breathlessness to " catching cold," and on that account to adopt a protective policy, the reverse of what is71 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PNEUMONOKONIOSIS desirable. When, notwithstanding attention to purer aeration and cleanliness during working and off-times, symptoms continue or increase, the patient should, if possible, change his em- ployment, preferably adopting an open-air life. Sometimes a change from one department to another in the same trade may suffice. Thus the building mason suffers less than does the hewer. Theoretically, a light gauze respirator should prove helpful by entangling a portion of the dust. It is not easy to get workmen to make use of them. B. Therapeutic.—The indications are similar to those in chronic bronchitis, emphysema, bronchiectasis, or pulmonary tuberculosis, and vary according to the nature and stage of the individual case. These are considered else- where. In addition to diluting the dusty atmosphere as fully as possible by proper methods of ventilation, the patient should be taught to counterbalance the disadvantage of his work conditions by an extra allowance of fresh air after working hours by day and during the night. Any tendency to heart failure must be combated by rest and suitable tonics. Gangrene of Lungs Definition Etiology Pathology Symptoms Physical Signs Differential Diagnosis Treatment 71 71 72 72 73 73 73 Definition.—Necrosis of a portion of lung tissue which, by the introduction of some septic or putrefactive organism, undergoes a foetid decomposition. Etiology.—Gangrene is a rare affection and is always secondary to some other disease. In all the older writers on the subject, from Laennec onwards, gangrene of lungs has been described as an occasional accompaniment of a number of diseases; but the reason for its appearance has remained in obscurity. It is now recognised that, unless putrefactive organisms are intro- duced, death of the lung tissue will only be followed by caseation or by the formation of an abscess. This is not all, however, because in many conditions of lung disease putrefactive organisms may be present in the bronchi or (as in the case of advanced tuberculous disease) in a cavity in the lungs, without the occurrence of gangrene. On reviewing the various diseases, in the course of which pulmonary gangrene appears, it will be found that in a considerable proportion some general condition is present which tends to lower vitality and to impair nutrition. Gangrene is therefore due to the combination of several circumstances. 1. A general disease or condition causing debility and lessening the resisting power of the tissues. 2. A local disease inducing necrosis or death of part of the lung. 3. The introduction of a septic or specific micro-organism which causes decomposition and putrefaction of the dead tissue. (1) Predisposing Causes.—-Pulmonary gan- grene occurs in a course of diabetes, scurvy, chronic nephritis (rarely), syphilis, and in the debility following typhus and typhoid fevers, or associated with alcoholism, starvation, or old age. In all these cases there is either a profound alteration of blood which interferes with the proper nutrition of the tissues or there is a feeble resisting power, so that the individual cell cannot cope with the invading organism. (2) In many of these cases the local incident which precedes gangrene of lungs is pneumonia. Diabetes sometimes terminates fatally in this manner. In many campaigns (happily more often in the past than at present) this combina- tion of pneumonia and gangrene has occurred in soldiers exhausted by fatigue or insufficient food, or suffering from scurvy (as in the Crimean War ; see AUbutt's System of Medicine, vol. V. p. 598), or from typhus fever, which in former times was the scourge of armies. In the latter case, as in enteric fever, the local cause may be pneumonia or a pulmonary infarct caused by the detachment of a clot from a thrombosed vein. Thrombosis of a branch of the pulmonary artery will occasionally lead to gangrene during the convalescence from fevers or in pysemic conditions. Pulmonary tuberculosis is occasionally, though rarely, accompanied by gangrene. At Brompton Hospital, out of 312 autopsies on cases of tuberculous disease of lungs occurring in two years, 4 cases of gangrene of lungs occurred. Of these, two occurred in patients who were the subjects of pronounced syphilis. In other years the occurrence of gangrene is rather less frequent, but syphilitics who are also the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis seem especially prone to gangrene. Cases of pneumonia from the inhalation of particles of food are apt to become gangrenous probably from the putrefaction of the foreign material. The so-called deglutition pneumonia occurs in cases upon whom tracheotomy has been performed, also in the last stages of diseases, when there is inability to swallow, and it is probable that this form of inhalation pneumonia is the cause of gangrene of lungs that occasion- ally occurs amongst the insane. Bronchiectasis not infrequently terminates with gangrene. The secretions retained in the dilated bronchi are iisually extremely offensive from their decomposition; and if ulceration of bronchi takes place a local pneumonia, with the72 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—GANGRENE absorption of the putrid contents of the bronchi in some cases, leads to gangrene. Pressure upon a large bronchus, due to aneurysm or malignant disease, leads to bronchiectasis and retention of secretions; or a large vessel may be occluded and general sloughing of the corresponding part of the lung may occur. Under these circumstances gan- grene occasionally follows. Perforation of bronchi from ulceration of a malignant growth of the oesophagus may produce the same result. Exte7ision of a neighbouring disease is some- times the cause of gangrene. An empyema will occasionally discharge itself by a sinus through the pleura and lung into a bronchus, and in rare instances the communication with the external air admits of micro-organisms which set up putrefaction and local gangrene. Similarly, the perforation of a gastric ulcer, when the stomach and diaphragm have pre- viously become adherent, leads to the entrance of food contents into the pleura and pulmonary tissue, and to their ultimate decomposition. Lastly, trmmiatic injuries of lungs or perfora- tion of bronchi, especially in case of wounds received in battle, may become gangrenous, especially when the subject of the wound is debilitated or suffering from some morbid con- dition. (3) Septic or putrefactive organisms are in- troduced either through the blood-vessels, the lymphatics, or the bronchi. Examples of the introduction by means of the circulation are seen in cases of septictemia, septicsemic typhus fever, pygemia, puerperal fever, caries of bone, and other infective diseases, such as erysipelas, enteric fever, measles, diphtheria, and so on. In all these cases it is probable that the septic emboli are due to the association of several micro-organisms. A specific micro-organism has been described as the cause of acute spreading gangrene, but in other cases the disease has not been assigned to a special organism, though it has been asserted that the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, when injected into animals, will produce gangrene. In most cases, whatever the source of the infection, the organisms or the emboli are conducted through the venous circulation to the heart and are thence impelled into the pulmonary circulation. When food is inhaled, or when a perforation of a gastric iilcer into a bronchus occurs, it is probable that, after decomposition of the food or gastric contents, the lymphatics are the medium of spread of the putrefactive organisms. It is difficult in some of the cases described above to be certain of the path of communica- tion of infection. When the bronchi contain offensive secretions the extension may be direct or throiigh the medium of the lymphatics. The same difficulty occurs in cases of exten- sion from without, such as occasionally follows a sinus through the diaphragm from abscess of liver or the causes mentioned above. In all cases, putrefactive or septic organisms find an entrance, whether directly or through the medium of lymphatics, blood channels, or bronchi. Pathology.—The early description of Laennec defined two forms of gangrene of the lungs— the circimiscribed and the diffuse. Later ex- perience has shown that it is not always possible to discriminate between the two forms. As a rule, the appearances are those of two zones — the necrotic gangrenous area and a surrounding inflammatory zone. The gangrenous portion of lung as a rule consists of a cavity filled with foetid, semi-solid, partly decomposed, shreddy lung tissue, or of liquid pus. The contents are usually of a greenish-yellow colour, but may be brown or black according to the amount of admixture of blood. When a cavity is formed the walls are irregular and (under water) appear shreddy and frayed. In the diffuse form the greenish-yellow tissue gradually blends with the healthy lung tissue. When gangrene is circumscribed it is sur- rounded by an inflammatory congested area, or the lung in the neighbourhood is pneumonic. Occasionally, in chronic cases, a gangrenous cavity is surrounded by black fibroid walls and a pseudo-cyst is formed, much resembling cases of cavitation in chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. Symptoms. — No symptoms are pathogno- monic of the affection. In the absence of foetor of the breath and expectoration it is impossible to do more than suspect the presence of gan- grene. Even under these circumstances it is possible to be mistaken, as some other conditions produce foetor. When in the course of pneumonia, bronchi- ectasis, tubercular disease of lungs, and other conditions the onset of sudden prostration is observed, with high temperature, rigors, and sweating—and if these symptoms are associated with the sudden appearance of foetor of expec- toration and breath—the occurrence of gangrene may be suspected. Sometimes foetor is absent, and in such cases the only other constant sign is the marked prostration of the patient. The temperature is not always raised abnormally, and sweating is a variable symptom; the expectoration in typical cases is extremely characteristic. The odour is extremely offensive, described some- times as fajcal but differs somewhat from that of bronchiectasis. (See also " Bronchiectasis.") The secretion is very similar to that of bron- chiectasis. It settles, on standing, into three layers : the upper frothy, the middle of greenish or brown tint according to the amount of blood present, and the lowest of similar colour or even darker, and containing a sediment. The con-LUNGS, DISEASES OF—GANGRENE 73 tents of the sediment are found to consist of altered and fatty pus corpuscles, many particles of pigment, some elastic fibres of lung, fatty cells and crystals, and numerous bacteria and micro - organisms, leptothrix, staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, and others. In some cases haemoptysis occurs, which may even prove fatal when a large vessel is perforated. Physical Signs.—None are peculiar to gan- grene of lung. They are usually those of local consolidation or lobar pneumonia, or of cavity. There is usually abundant associated bronchitis ; but generally it may be said that the physical signs are those of the local disease which precedes gangrene. Differential Diagnosis.—From the above considerations it will be seen that the only means of diagnosis that we possess are the onset of foetor of breath and expectoration, and the sudden onsets, in cases of pulmonary disease, of extreme prostration associated with high temperature and other signs. When all these symptoms are present the difficulty of diagnosis between foetid bronchitis, bronchiectasis, and gangrene may occasionally occur. In the former case the history and symptoms, with the absence of any sudden and grave change in the symptoms and physical signs, contra- indicates the diagnosis of gangrene. A serious difficulty of diagnosis sometimes occui-s in cases of bronchiectasis. No pathognomonic sign serves completely to distinguish between the two conditions; the whole clinical picture has to be studied in each case. The odour of gangrene differs somewhat from that of bronchiectasis—but it is a question of impression, for both are extremely offensive. As a rule, gangrene is a far more acute condition, and the temperature and profound exhaustion of the patient will confirm the suspicion. Treatment.—If the site of the gangrenous area can be localised, and especially if the physical signs of a cavity can be diagnosed, surgical treatment is indicated. When such a cavity has been opened and drained, recovery has in a few cases resulted. Very little is to be hoped from other than surgical treatment. The foetor of gangrene has been reduced by the hypodermic injection of guaiacol and in- halations or sprays of carbolic acid and other antiseptics. Emphysema of the Lmigs Definition . „ . . . .73 History and Causation . . . .73 Inducing Causes 74 Forms of Emphysema (Primary and Secondary) ..... 74 Pathology . . . . . .74 Physical Signs 75 Symptoms . . . . . .76 Diagnosis . . . . . .76 Treatment . . . . . .76 Definition.—A permanent ovei'-distension of the pulmonary alveoli, with atrophy and de- struction of their intervening partitions and general rarefaction of lungs. Tliis definition obviously excludes certain types of bulky lungs to which the term emphysema has been loosely applied. It will be convenient to eliminate these first from the disease under discussion. Acute vesiculai' emphysema is a condition of over - distension of lungs found in children who have died from bronchitis, whooping- cough, diphtheria, and other allied conditions. Whether from violence of cough or partial laryngeal or bronchial obstruction, the alveoli become temporarily over-distended and the lung is found to be bulky and non-crepitant. As Fagge states, " probably the lungs would have recovered if the patient had lived." It is frequently observed in children who are the subjects of severe cough, dyspnoea, or obstruc- tion to respiration, that the cardiac and liver dulnesses become diminished. If the cause is removed the condition subsides, and the lungs resume their normal size. These are cases of temporary over-distension, and have little to do with the disease in question. Interstitial pulmonary emphysema is a com- paratively rare disease, and implies the entrance of air into the interstitial connective tissue enveloping the bronchi and walls of the alveoli. It is only possible when a breach of surface occurs in the bronchial or pulmonary tissues admitting the ingress of air from without. It is occasionally the result of a tracheotomy wound, has been known to occur after a punctured wound of lung, and more rarely as a result of pneumothorax (usually of traumatic origin). Air spreads into the tissues around the larynx or bronchi, or even permeates into the alveolar walls, causing collapse of alveoli. Usually the cases terminate fatally. History and Theories of Causation.—We owe the earliest and complete description of emphy- sema to Laennec ] but its true pathology was first described by Rokitansky. Laennec's views of tlie causation of the disease differed from those of later writers in that he conceived the idea that air was retained in the alveoli in cases of catarrh or obstruction, whether by swelling of the mucous membrane or blocking of the tubes; and that while air could be admitted during forced inspiration, its egress was retarded owing to the obstruction to expiration, and thus tension was increased and a consequent disten- sion and yielding of the alveolar walls was produced. Later writers have maintained two opposing views, and in England these have been associated with the names of Gairdner and Jenner. Gairdner believed that emphy- sema was due to forced inspiratory eff'ort. If under ordinary conditions of respiration the lungs are capable of holding a certain amountOF—EMPHYSEMA 74 LUNGS, DISEASES of air, it was contended that the increased inspiratory effort would cause a pressure of air greater than the alveoli could contain, and that in consequence the air-cells would become over- distended. The force of inspiration was con- ceived to be greater than that of expiration. The view now held is diametrically opposed to Gairdner, and was enunciated by Jenner in a paper read at the Medical and Chirurgical Society in 18.57. This view, which is abundantly proved by clinical observation, contends that forced expiration has a far greater power in distending the pulmonary alveoli than is possible in inspiration. Cough is produced by the presence of a foreign body, usually mucus, in the bronchial tubes. It is nothing more than an effort of expulsion, and is produced by the closure of the glottis and a contraction of the expiratory muscles. The abdominal and inter- costal muscles contract; the diaphragm is pushed up, limiting the capacity of the chest. The air in the lungs is thus compressed, and its tension raised. The glottis suddenly relaxes, and owing to the greatly increased tension air is violently expelled from the lungs. The expiratory theory of emphysema is now generally received, and has been abundantly vindicated by the convincing proofs afforded by Jenner. It is assumed that forced expiration is the inducing cause. This scarcely explains the permanence of the condition. Rainey demon- strated that, apart from possible conditions of pressure and tension, fatty degeneration of lung tissue was an accompaniment, if not a predisposing cause, of the final enlargement of the alveoli. Jenner regarded the morbid state as one of fibrous degenei'ation, due in many cases to the effusion of lymph into the inter- stitial tissues of the lung, in conditions of con- gestion, and to their subsequent organisation. To sum up, it may be stated that forced expira- tion exerts a more powerful influence than forced inspiration in distending the pulmonary alveoli. At the same time there is evidence derived from cases of asthma and laryngeal obstruction that increased inspiration (where the outlet of air is obstructed) takes some share in increasing the tension in alveoli in these cases, and cannot be altogether disregarded. Inducing Causes.—It is obvious from the above considerations that cough is the most frequent factor that produces emphysema. All diseases that produce chronic cough and all occupations that set up catarrh or irritation of bronchi may be regarded as predisposing causes of emphysema. Amongst the former, chronic bronchial catarrh and winter cough are the most frequent. Of the latter, the occupations in- volving the inhalation of dust, such as stone- masons, coal-miners, workers in cotton factories, and so on, are irritative causes. All violent muscular efforts are liable to pro- duce emphysema. Constipation is undoubtedly a cause, especially as the effort is made with a closed glottis. The same remark applies to players on wind instruments—cornet players, etc.—and to glass-blowers. In all these in- stances the glottis is closed, and the tension of the air in the lungs is raised before the final effort of blowing is made. In asthma and cases of laryngeal obstruction the inspiratory effort probably plays a larger part than the expiratory. Forms of Emphysema.—Clinically, the disease, when of primary origin, has been described by Jenner as of two varieties—the large-lunged or hypertrophic emphysema and the small-lunged or atrophic form. The common cases are those of the so-called hypertrophic type. The chest is barrel-shaped, and its capacity greatly increased. It may occur at any age, in children or in adults. It is more frequently seen in men than in women. It is induced by all pulmonary complaints that are accompanied by excessive cough or dyspnoea and also by conditions involving unusual mus- cular effort. Small-lunged or atrophic emphy- sema occurs in old people. The thorax is small, and usually there is ossification of the cartilages of the ribs and a rigid chest. The capacity of the chest is not enlarged, and the atrophy of lungs is usually part of a general wasting of all the tissues of the body. Secondary emphysema is the result of some pulmonary disease, usually chronic tuberculosis of lung. When one lung or a part of a lung is the seat of chronic disease it is commonly found that certain parts of the affected lung and the opposite lung become emphysematous. This is often the result of continued cough. The ultimate result is that the edges of the lobes of the diseased lung, sometimes the apex and base, and frequently the whole of the opposing lung become affected. Local emphysema of this form is frequently found in fibroid cases of phthisis and may be sufficiently pronounced to mask the primary disease, and give rise to what is some- times called the emphysematous type of phthisis. In these cases the sequence of events is not always the same. Sometimes the emphysema is the direct result of chronic cough induced by the tubercular lesion. In others, tubercular disease supervenes in a case of chronic bronchitis (winter cough) associated with emphysema, and it is often a matter of extreme difficulty to decide whether the chronic bronchial catarrh has been set up by an old and latent tubercular process or whether the tubercular disease has developed subsequently. Secondary emphysema may result from any chronic pulmonary disease other than tuberculosis of lungs. Pathology.—The post-mortem appearance of the large-lunged type of emphysema is that of a bulky lung, non-crepitant, and usually pitting upon pressure, very pale in colour and spottedOF—EMPHYSEMA 75 LUNGS, DISEASES with pigment. The lungs do not collapse when the thorax is opened, but often bulge into the opening made. Upon section the lung tissue is found to be bloodless and extremely rarefied, sometimes full of holes visible to the naked eye —occasionally large buUte are found at the apices of the lungs, and more commonly at the base or edges of the lobes. The bullae may be of any size from that of a small pea to a cavity of two or three inches diameter. On microscopic examination it is found that the alveolar spaces are irregular and increased in size, the walls either thickened by fibroid deposit or undergoing fatty degeneration. The partitions between the alveoli are frequently atrophied or destroyed, producing large irregular spaces. Sometimes the smaller bronchi are dilated. The pulmonary arterial vessels are often atheromatous. In the atrophic form the lungs are small and collapse when the chest is opened. The lungs do not necessarily cover the heart. The general appearance on section is of rarefaction, but bullous enlargements are less common than in the former type. (Edema of the bases of the lungs is more common than in the large-lunged emphysema. The whole process is one of atrophy, and is accompanied by a general wast- ing of tissues with other senile changes, such as ossification of the costal cartilages. Secondary Emphysema. — When fibroid or contracted tubercular lesions are present, it is common to find the surroimding areas of lung pale and bulky and presenting the features described in the hypertrophic form of emphy- sema. If the apex or upper part of a lobe is affected, the rest of the lobe may be extremely emphysematous. When there are disseminated fibroid tubercles the whole lung may be white or pale grey in colour, varied by the appearance of grey or caseous tubercular nodules surrounded by pigment. Sometimes large bullae are found at the apex with large pigmented tubercular scars in the underlying pulmonary tissue. Oc- casionally, when the greater part of a lobe is the seat of chronic fibroid tubercular con- solidation, the edge may be fringed with large buUse. Hypertrophic Emphysema.—Physical Signs. —Inspection.—Alteration in the form of the chest, which assumes the so-called barrel shape. Enlargement of the chest in all its diameters. The ribs and clavicles become more horizontal, increasing the suprasternal angle and the angle of the ribs at the episternal notch. Widening of the intercostal spaces. Curvature of the spine, producing convexity of the back and scapular regions. Deficient expansion of the chest. It must be remembered that rigidity of the chest due to ossification of the costal cartilages is a superadded condition often pre- sent especially in the atrophic forms, but not necessarily associated with emphysema. Palpation.—The vocal vibrations are dimin- ished. The cardiac impulse is feeble or absent. Percussion.—The superficial cardiac dulness and the liver dulness are diminished or absent, except in tlie atrophic form, and do not alter with posture as in the healthy subject. The note is usually hyper-resonant. Auscultation. — The respiratory murmur is weakened, especially in the vipper parts of the lungs and at the bases. In many cases the inspiration is of a higher pitch than expiration, but this is to be regarded as an evidence of spasm of the bronchioles, and a condition of broncliial asthma which is frequently associated with emphysema. In advanced cases the ex- piration is unduly prolonged ; but it is extremely difficult to eliminate the voluntary prolongation of expiration which a patient will often exhibit, especially if this prolongation is accompanied by a wheeze, which in the case of the poorer class of case is sometimes produced in order to excite sympathy. Superadded Sounds.—It is a common observa- tion that fine crepitant rales are heard at the apices of the lungs in the supraclavicular regions in cases of emphysema. These are heard on forced inspiration, and are entirely inspiratory. They are of the nature described by Laennec as the " crepitous rale," and often disappear after the second or third deep inspiratory efibrt. They are dry rales, and in all probability due to the sudden opening up of unexpanded air vesicles. Bronchitis and oedema of lungs is so common an accompaniment that it is extremely common to find rhonchus or sibilus and fine crepitations at the bases. The Heart Sounds. — These are usually muffled and indistinct. In cases of long dura- tion, and especially in young subjects, the first sound at the ensiform cartilage or in the epi- gastrium is unduly prolonged and accentuated, and is an evidence of hypertrophy of the right ventricle. In late stages of emphysema this accentuation is not marked, and the second pulmonary sound may be accentuated owing to dilatation of the right heart. A systolic and, probably, exocardiac murmur is sometimes heard in the situation of the ensiform cartilage in cases where the right ventricle is increased in size, and this murmur is very localised in its area. In advanced cases of emphysema, where the right side of the heart is dilated, the symptoms and physical signs of tricuspid in- competence may occur—epigastric pulsation, a systolic murmur at the end of the sternum, a venus pulse in the jugulars, and some cyanosis, with other symptoms of systemic engorgement. Atrophic Emphysema.—Physical Signs.—The subjects of this form of the disease are usually in advanced life, and the lungs only share in the general wasting and atrophy. Physical signs are not so marked as in the hypertrophic form. There is more likely to be rigidity ofLUNGS, DISEASES OF—EMPHYSEMA 76 costal cartilages in addition to the emphysema, so that movement of the chest is poor. The chest may or may not be barrel-shaped, but is not usually much enlarged. The normal dul- ness of heart and liver is often diminished, but not invariably. The percussion note is hyper- resonant. There is often considerable bron- chitis present with crepitation at bases, or rhonchus and sibilus over the greater part of the lungs. Symptoms. — Emphysema is so frequently associated with, and the result of a chronic, bronchial, or pulmonary disease, that it is difficult to separate the symptoms from those of an inducing and primary complaint. For practical purposes the symptoms may be de- scribed as directly due to the mechanical con- ditions present. Owing to the distension of lungs, a large destruction of the pulmonary capillaries takes place, with a diminution of the capillary area. This necessarily produces a deficient aeration of blood and an obstruction to the pulmonary circulation. Dyspnoea is, therefore, the prominent symptom; and as the disease advances and a greater strain is thrown upon the right side of the heart, cyanosis will result, especially when there is not sufficient compensatory hypertrophy of the heart and the right ventricle dilates. The diminished pulmonary circulation induces a tendency to hypostatic congestion and to bronchial catarrh and bronchitis. In advanced cases, when compensation is deficient and the right side of the heart dilated, systemic engorgement follows, with the develop- ment of oedema of extremities, chronic engorge- ment of stomach, liver, and kidneys, ascites, and the usual accompaniments of cardiac failure. These extreme symptoms are far more rarely seen in the atrophic forms of emphysema. In these cases intercurrent attacks of bronchitis are frequent. In all stages dyspnoea is a prominent symp- tom, and in cases associated with bronchitis asthmatic attacks are not uncommon. Diagnosis.—Provided the examination of the patient is made with care and intelligence, there is no difficulty in most cases. The chief doubt occurs in the decision between primary and secondary cases of emphysema. It is occa- sionally a matter of great difficulty to decide whether the disease is one of emphysema following a winter cough and chronic bronchitis, or whether the case is one of tuberculosis associated with emphysema. Two classes of cases occur in which the diagnosis is a matter of some difficulty. If chronic tubercular disease of long standing is present, the lungs may become extremely emphysematous, and the true disease entii'ely masked. Vocal vibrations may be diminished, vocal resonance not increased ; the respiratory murmur perhaps harsh and expiration prolonged, but yet no evidence is obtained of any consolida- tion of lung. In the second class of case one lung is the site of chronic tubercular disease, and it is a question whether the opposing lung which is enlarged is emphysematous or is enlarged from a pseudo-hypertrophy. In cases of extreme contraction of one lung it is common for the opposite lung to expand by virtue of its elasticity and fill up the inter- vening space. This pseudo-hypertrophy can be distinguished from a compensatory emphy- sema by the following signs. In the former case the respiration is exaggerated, expiration is prolonged, and the breathing assumes the puerile type. When emphysema is present the air entry is diminished, and respiration is weak. At the same time dyspnoea is far more pronounced when the opposing lung, which is free from tubercular disease, is emphysematous. Treatment.—When we eliminate the treat- ment of associated bronchitis and of the symp- toms due to deficient cardiac compensation, very little special treatment is left for what is, after all, a permanent condition. Respiratory and cardiac stimulants are bene- ficial, and tonic treatment directed towards the improvement of general health is indicated. For emphysema alone, dissociated from pre- disposing symptoms, it may be said that the life should be one calculated to avoid all tendency to bronchial catarrh—a dry air, a warm climate, the avoidance of night air and damp, are advisable. Cod-liver oil and malt extracts are usually beneficial, especially where there is want of nutrition and in the senile atrophic cases. When there is excessive expectoration astrin- gent preparations and terebene, balsam of Peru, compound tincture of benzoin, and other balsamic and resinous drugs are of service. Dyspnoea is best treated by pulmonary stimu- lants, such as ether, ammonia, and strychnia In cardiac failure and engorgement of the right side of the heart, diuretics, digitalis, and in extreme cases even venesection may be necessary. Iodide of potassium is of great value in cases of spasmodic dyspnoea, but should be given with stimulating preparations. Counter-irritation to the surface of the chest and back is useful when there is an associated chronic bronchial catarrh. No account of the treatment of emphysema would be complete without a reference to the extreme value in some cases of aerotherapeutics. For many years compressed air baths have been in use at Brompton Hospital. The patient is placed for one hour or more in a chamber hermetically sealed, into which air is forced until the pressure is raised by 1 to 10 atmo- spheres. In the majority of cases immediate benefit is obtained—dyspnoea is lessened, and even the capacity of the lungs, and the patientOF—EMPHYSEMA 77 LUNGS, DISEASES is able to undergo increased exertion. The baths should be given (if the first or second prove beneficial) two or three times a week, and after some weeks the effect will often be found to be permanent. A good account of this treatment will be found in the article on "Aerotherapeutics," in vol. i. of Clifford Allbutt's System of Medicine. Our space is too limited to enter into the probable reasons for the beneficial effects obtained. Rarefied air has been found to be of use in some cases, but the mechanical methods employed appear to be of far less general value than those of the compressed air baths. Vascular Disorders of the Lung Anemia 77 Acute Congestion 77 Chronic Venous Congestion . . .78 (Edema of the Lungs . . . .79 Thrombosis . . . . . .81 Embolism—Infarction . . . .82 See also Hemoptysis, vol. iv. Anemia of the Lungs Pulmonary anaemia may be due to one of three great groups of causes—(1) blocking of or interference with the pulmonary arteries; (2) an impoverished condition of the blood; and (3) changes in the air-passages which in- terfere, not with the larger pulmonary arteries, but with the capillaries. (1) The first of these groups includes stenosis of the pulmonary orifice, which is generally of congenital origin, and which either may be in- compatible with life, or may lead to serious interference with the aeration of the blood and the development and robust health of the sufferer. Embolism and thrombosis, and pressure upon the pulmonary arteries from without, also cause more or less extensive pulmonary anaemia. Reference is made to the latter conditions separately, and it is only necessary to add here that they may cause sudden death, or at any rate loss, often permanently, of an area of lung with much resulting dyspnoea and distress. (2) Any anaemic condition of the blood must imply also corresponding anaemia of the lungs. (3) In emphysema the alveolar capillaries are compressed and often obliterated, and in pulmonary cirrhosis there is inevitably much interference with the circulation in the affected area. An emphysematous lung is typically anaemic, and the dyspnoea associated with a marked degree of emphysema is as much due to the pulmonary anaemia as to the backward pressure on the right heart resulting from the condition. The grey stage of pneumonia hepatisation owes its pecular colour to the pressure of the alveolar contents on the alveolar capillaries. And, lastly, in tubercular disease, in collapse of the lung, and in nearly every lung disease in which there is not universal hypersemia, there are often more or less limited anaemic areas. The great clinical feature is dyspnoea; but the pulmonary anaemia is so often merely a part of the disease from which the patient is suffering that the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment re- quire to be considered under the various con- ditions indicated above. Active Hyperemia or Acute Congestion of the Lungs Pulmonary hyperaemia may be active or passive. Active hyperaemia or acute congestion of the lungs accompanies, and is, in fact, a necessary adjunct of all pulmonary inflamma- tions. The first stage of pneumonia is acute congestion of the area of lung about to become hepatised ; and in tuberculosis, abscess, pleurisy, and bronchitis a more or less extensive hyper- aemia necessarily accompanies and forms part of the inflammatory process. We must consider, however, whether a primary acute congestion can occur apart altogether from such causal agents as the tubercle bacillus or the pneumo- coccus. Obviously; and an acute congestion could be induced in two distinct ways, either from excessive action of the right ventricle, or from an irritant diffused by the bronchial tubes throughout the lung tissue. Woillez has de- scribed a form of pulmonary congestion, which is called in France after his name—and many continental authorities agree with him—but which in this country we should include under the heading of pneumonia. Whenever the heart acts excitedly, as in many fevers or after severe and protracted exertion, hypersemia of the lungs may occur. Scarlet fever, smallpox, and typhus are among the fevers most commonly accompanied by pulmonary congestion, and it has also been observed in certain cases of articular rheumatism. In many of these fever cases the pulmonary congestion may be at first acute, but it is very often complicated by a terminal stage of cardiac failure and paralytic dilatation of pulmonary vessels—in other words, hypostatic congestion. Turning to the acute congestion resulting from over-strain, Osier quotes the case of Renforth, the famous oarsman, who is said to have died of this condition due to excessive effort when rowing at Halifax; and there are similar cases recounted by Ollivier and others. Here, again, it is difficult to differentiate be- tween the active congestion from over-action of the right ventricle and the passive congestion, which probably accompanies cardiac failure and precedes death. There can be no doubt that the inhalation of excessively hot air or some irritating vapour may induce acute congestion of the lungs, Init the condition is in reality a bronchiolitis andLUNGS, DISEASES OF— 78 VASCULAR DISORDERS often eventually broncho-pneumonia, and hardly deserving of the name of a primary active pulmonary congestion. Leuf describes the results of thirty post- mortem examinations on alcoholic and decrepit persons, who had died suddenly of cold and exposure with intense dyspnoea, and he states that their lungs were intensely congested, almost purple in colour, and generally also oedematous, with great dilatation and engorge- ment of the right side of the heart; but in these cases, or many of them, cardiac failure and passive, rather than active, congestion would account for the pathological condition. The clinical feaUires of the so-called primary acute congestion are rigor, dyspnoja, cough, often blood-stained sputum, and a temperature of at least 101°. The physical signs are diminished resonance, sometimes with an indis- tinct tympanitic note, feeble bronchial breath- ing, and many fine moist sounds. The proc/nosis and diagnosis require little comment, and the treatment of a so-called primary case would consist in bleeding, possibly even from the right auricle in an urgent case, according to Sticker; purgatives and diuretics ; and ice applied to heart or chest. Passive Hyperemia or Passive Congestion OF THE Lungs May be either (1) the result of obstruction, such as occurs in a case of mitral stenosis, where the long-standing backward pressure causes brown induration of the lung; or (2) hypostatic congestion, where, in devitalised subjects, prob- ably due to gradual cardiac failure and para- lytic distension of the pulmonary capillaries, the dependent parts of the lungs become engorged. (1) In chronic venous congestion of long standing the lungs present a very typical appearance. They are of a russet-brown colour, often dry, although sometimes they are oedematous. The pulmonary capillaries are dilated, tortuous, and project into the alveoli like loops. The pulmonary arteries and veins are also distended, but not so markedly. Inside the alveoli there are many desquamated alveolar cells containing much brownish coloured blood pigment. The capillaries of the bi'onchi and even of the pleura also suffer, and the bronchial tubes show long-standing chronic catarrh. There is also considerable increase of connective tissue thi'oughout the lung, giving the lung more resistance on pressure, while the blood pigment in the alveolar walls and in the desquamated epithelial cells accounts for the typical colour of the organ. But it must be remembered that this mechanical congestion may be of acute de- velopment, and no brown induration, indicating long-standing backward pressure, may have had time to result. Many cardiac and pulmonary diseases are responsible for backward pressure in the lungs, whether of rapid or of slow development, such as mitral stenosis and insufficiency, aortic in- competence or even stenosis if accompanied by mitral incompetence, and any condition causing cardiac failure among cardiac lesions; while among pulmonary affections there are long- standing bronchitis, emphysema, and cirrhosis of lung. The clinical features vary with the degree and the presence or absence of oedema. In a chronic case, such as mitral stenosis, so long as the heart is competent to discharge its functions, there may be no obvious symptoms or signs of the pulmonary condition; but if compensation is lost, dyspnoea, orthopnoea, cough, with more or less expectoration, soon appear, the sputum often containing alveolar cells packed with brown pigment. The physical signs vary greatly with the amount of oedema present. If oedema is slight or absent, bronchitis may give the typical breath-sounds of that condition. The percussion note may be somewhat dull, especially over the basis of the lungs. The diagnosis presents little difficulty; the clinical picture of a cardiac case suffering from backward pressure, with epigastric pulsation, engorged jugular veins, etc., is very typical. The prognosis depends on the degree of the condition and the etiological factor responsible for it. The treatment is to relieve the congestion, and, if possible, to remove the cause. Bleeding, wet cupping, hydragogue cathartics, diuretics, and, where permissible, diaphoretics, may all be used with advantage. (2) Hypostatic Congestion.—This is not en- tirely due to gravity, because it does not occur in a healthy individual when confined to bed. It is, however, passive congestion of the more dependent parts of the lungs, and its production necessitates a devitalised subject. It is a paralytic dilatation of vessels due to debility and enfeebled action of heart. The lung is of a dark purple colour engorged with blood ; and, generally in a marked case, there is sufficient oedematous fluid on the alveoli to make the lung sink in water. The most dependent parts are most likely to be quite airless. Hypostatic congestion is common at death, not, perhaps, to a very marked degree, but in all diseases where vitality is greatly reduced it is present; as, for instance, in protracted cases of fever (typhoid, typhus, or smallpox), many debilitating nervous diseases (apoplexy, myelitis), and many other diseases. The clinical features are often difficidt to determine from the impossibility of subjecting the patient to a thorough examination. They consist in diminished resonance over the affected parts, feeble bronchial or even tubular breathing, slightly increased vocal resonance, and fine moist79 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS sounds. Sometimes septic pneumonia develops from inspiration of food or of mucopus from larger bronchi, and some pyrexia may develop. The prognosis is very bad, and the treatment consists in stimulating remedies, special atten- tion being devoted to the flagging heart and to frequently changing the patient's position in bed. This last detail of nursing is of the utmost moment, and should never be neglected by the medical attendant. GEdbma of the Lungs There is almost no pulmonary aff'ection which is so common, at least in a moderate degree, so important to the patient and yet so difficult to explain. Pulmonary oedema may be acute or chronic, or, stated in another way, it may be of active or passive development. A few remarks on the accepted pathology of oedema explains to some extent both the etiology and also the clinical features, and therefore should precede further description. Pathology.—In all acute inflammations of the lungs there must inevitably be, and there is, some exudation of a serous fluid. This varies much in amount; in an ordinary diplococcus pneumonia (Frankel's pneumococcus) it is generally slight, while in streptococcus pneu- monia it is often much more extensive; but there are many conditions in which a very acute oedema occurs where, either the irritant is applied to the air-passages (ether, chloroform, chlorine gas, and so forth), or where a toxin is at work, such as muscarin, and probably the oedema mainly toxic which may occur in cir- rhotic Bright's disease. CEdema is not so commonly the result of backward pressure in the lungs as at first sight we should imagine. It is frequently the case that chronic venous congestion of the lungs exists without much or any oedema, and the description of brown in- duration of the lung does not include oedema as one of the necessary coexistent conditions. Sahli found on post-mortem evidence that oedema was much more infrequent than he ex- pected where conditions producing backward pressure in the lung were at work; and that, where it was present in heart cases with passive congestion of the lungs, it was much less ex- tensive than he expected would have been the case. Instead of being greatest in mitral stenosis, it was best marked where aortic and mitral incompetence were combined. It prob- ably requires one of two additional agencies to bring it about—either damage to vessel walls rendering transudation easy, or else interference with the lymphatics which drain away lymph from the lung. In a healthy lung a very large amount of fluid can be absorbed in a short time. Peiper, in experimenting on rabbits, found that 20 to 25 cubic millimetres of water could be absorbed in a few minutes, and a medium-sized dog absorbed 250 cubic centi- metres in an hour. Blood and egg albumen were absorbed with almost equal ease, and cutting the vagus and sympathetics did not interfere, apparently, with the absorptive power of the lungs. Lastly, Wasbutzky and Peiper found that strychnine was absorbed almost six times as rapidly from the lung as by sub- cutaneous injection. But long-standing passive congestion in pul- monary capillaries may in time bring about the changes in the vessel walls which cause transuda- tion of lymph. Dilatation of the heart and especially of the left ventricle cause well-marked oedema. CEdema may therefore be the result of— (1) Backward pressure, if capillaries undergo the requisite change which renders transudation easy. (2) Toxins, which probably all act on the vessel walls. (3) Interference with absorption by lym- phatics. Experimental evidence is still necessary to solve the problem whether much transudation occurs at all normally. Huchard has pointed out that oedema of the lungs is not common in subacute parenchymatous nephritis, but extremely common in cirrhotic Bright's disease, and therefore he contends that toxins alone are not sufficient, but that peri- aortitis may set up irritation of the cardiac plexvis. He considers the requisite peri-aortitis to be a part of the arterio-sclerosis so commonly associated with cirrhotic disease of the kidneys. Etiology.—Irritants applied to the air-passages, such as chlorine gas, ether, chloroform, and so forth; and chloral, morphia, muscarin, iodine or iodides, and pilocarpine taken internally, may all cause oedema. Poppert, Morten, Saundby, and others have recounted cases of fatal oedema following on the inhalation of ether, and often after considerable periods of time (1 to 30 hours) after the anaesthetic was ad- ministered. In kidney aff"ections, especially cirrhotic disease, it is not uncommon, although, as Huchard has pointed out, the toxins should be even greater in subacute parenchymatous disease, in which it is of much less frequent occurrence. In some fevers, such as influenza, scarlet fever, measles, smallpox, and erysipelas, it occa- sionally occurs, and also, but very exception- ally, where there is acute inflammation of the skin, such as erythema, eczema, and urticaria. Where the air-passages are blocked, as in diphtheria, or where a foreign body has become impacted, oedema may develop along with a septic pneumonia. It is common in heart disease, and, as already mentioned, especially in combined aortic and mitral incompetence, and it may occur acutely80 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS or come on slowly. The chronic cases most often accompany any heart or other lesion causing much backward pressure, such as bron- chitis, etc. It may also occur with any lung inflammation, varying much in degree in the different cases. A degree of pulmonary oedema is a frequent sign of the approach of death in asthenic subjects, but the well-known death rattle is often limited to the trachea and bronchi, and need not signify a widespread oedema of the lungs. It is certainly most likely to appear where failure of the left heart is the direct cause of death; and in diseases of the nervous system, and especially in the subjects of alcohol- ism, passive or chronic oedema is of common occurrence. Lastly, after removing by paracentesis a large pleural effusion, albuminous expectoration some- times occurs. It depends almost always on ex- cessive amounts removed, and it may, when it occurs, terminate fatally. Pathological Anatomy.—In acute oedema the lung is heavy, and on pressure an enormous amount of watery fluid, sometimes blood-stained, can be squeezed out from the cut surface. The fluid may be frothy, or there may be little air left except in the bronchi; and the lung, before the fluid is removed, generally sinks in water. The amount of blood in the vessels varies, and the lung is sometimes extremely pale. It is elastic on pressure, and the mark of the com- pressing finger is speedily effaced. The lung tears rapidly. The exudation is not limited to air vesicles, but is also interstitial in position. In chronic oedema the elasticity is much reduced, and the pit left by the finger remains. The bases of the lung and the lower lobes are most frequently affected. Clinical Features.—In an ac^ite and extensive oedema, dyspnoea rapidly develops, the face becomes pale and cyanosed, and the veins in the neck are distended, while cold sweat appears on the face and body. Breathing soon becomes increasingly rapid and painful. On inspection the chest wall appears unduly distended, and the extraordinary muscles of inspiration are brought into play. The percussion note is increasingly dull over the affected area of lung, especially over the lower part of the chest; while above, a distinct tympanitic note is generally obtained, indicating relaxation of pulmonary septa. The breath sounds are masked by fine, and later, by coarse rales, and are not infrequently feebly bronchial in type, while the vocal resonance is often somewhat diminished. The sputum which the patient constantly coughs up is copioxis, watery, or somewhat frothy, and not infrequently blood- stained, and contains a varying number of red blood corpuscles, a few leucocytes, and a large amount of mucin. If the oedema increases, the lower interspaces become indrawn, the diaphragm paralysed, and the patient passes into a state of stupor or delirium; and the heart, which has up to this time been acting fairly strongly, becomes weak, irregular, and rapid, and death ensues sometimes in compara- tively few hours. The clinical picture of chronic oedema is a more protracted one, but the physical signs closely correspond. There is the same dyspnoea, with marked orthopnoea, and the feeling of chest constriction, if not so agonising, is merely dissimilar as regards degree. One peculiar type of oedema requires brief reference, and that is a periodic form of acute oedema. It occurs in chronic Bright's disease, in anterio-sclerosis, and sometimes in aortic disease, and Parisot and Spillman have de- scribed its appearance in aneurysm of the heart. Where one of the predisposing conditions exists, a trivial exciting cause accounts for the onset of the oedema, such as excessive physical exer- tion, a heavy meal, a strong cigar, or it may in some cases occur whenever the unfortunate patient assumes the recumbent posture. The symptoms come on rapidly, but often are arrested, and the sufferer recovers, although eventually an attack may prove fatal. The diagnosis is rarely difficult, the dyspnoea with choking sensations and the increasing number of moist sounds heard on ausculting the lungs are alone sufficient. More skill is often required for recognising the cause of the condition than for deciding upon its existence. The treatment of the acute form consists in an attempt at removing or neutralising the agent at work, by administering purgatives, diuretics and diaphoretics, and by counter-irritants, and attention should be directed at once to the etiological factor if discoverable. Muscarin can be antagonised by atropin, and in the oedema of Bright's disease the skin and bowels, and sometimes even the kidneys, may be vigorously stimulated with beneficial results. It is very doubtful whether vaso-motor stimulants are of any real value in counteracting the supposed vaso-motor paralysis, although Traube recom- mends acetate of lead in ^ to 1 grain doses given frequently. In the oedema of backward pressure relief should be at once afforded by the direct with- drawal of blood from a vein, by removing the venous congestion by purgation, diuresis, and sometimes diaphoresis, and, lastly, by trying to regulate the heart by the administration of digitalis, caffein, or other cardiac tonic. Where hydrothorax exists, paracentesis and the re- moval of a part of the effusion should not be too long delayed. Counter-irritation is of great value in all cases where the skin can with safety be stimu- lated, and mustard poultices or the ordinary mustard leaf, iodine, fly-blisters, and in some cases a hot bath, to which 1 or 2 lbs. of mus-81 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—VASCULAR DISORDERS tard have been added, are all useful methods of treatment. Saline purgatives, given in concentrated form, probably answer the purpose of hydragogue catharsis most effectively; and pilocarpine in the oedema of Bright's disease should be ad- ministered hypodermically to ^ grain). The author has seen in more than one case of urseraia, pilocarpine bring about acute oedema of the lungs which it is so often given to relieve ; but when a fatal result is impending it is certainly worth a trial, although it might be delayed until other remedies had failed to afford relief. Surrounding the patient with hot bottles, placed outside a single blanket covering the patient, and then a number of blankets put over the whole, is an easy method of ensuring rapid diaphoresis, although, where obtainable, a hot air bath is much more efficacious. Occasionally emesis is of great value for clearing the larger bronchi, and a hypodermic injection of apomorphine (^^ to J grain) is the best agent to use. In exceptional cases tracheotomy and artificial irritation of the upper air-passages, or even suction, have been tried with success where the patient was in imminent danger. It is difficult to offer any suggestion as to the prophylaxis of ether and chloroform oedemas—they are so rare and therefore unex- pected, and so usually fatal when they do occur ; but to obviate the oedema following paracentesis of the thorax, it is, as a rule, only necessary to limit the amount of fluid removed at one time, and to remove that amount as slowly as possible. Thrombosis of the Pulmonary Arteries The frequency with which ante-mortem clot- ting occurs in the right auricle and ventricle, and in the pulmonary arteries, is recognised more, perhaps, at post-mortem examinations than by any definite clinical evidences of the condition before death, although it, unquestion- ably, is often directly responsible for the fatal event. It is specially liable to occur in pneu- monia, but its development in that disease and many other conditions must be considered to be due as much almost to the flagging heart as to the special tendency of blood-clotting in lobar pneumonia. In the author's experience of rather over sixty cases of typical lobar pneumonia, the larger pulmonary arteries always contained some blood-clots partly decolorised, but often mainly coloured, and only in about 5 per cent of these cases was their absolute blockage of some of the pulmonary arteries with firmly adherent decolorised clot. The so-called hy- perinotic condition of the blood is not limited to lobar pneumonia, but is common to not a few inflammatory conditions. The blood appears to tend to clot first in the appendix of the right auricle, and where that VOL. VI chamber is filled with almost entirely white clot, the oldest and most adherent part is always that situated in the appendix. Genei-- ally the white clot in the right ventricle is not so large in amount, and it forms first, ap- parently, in the spaces between the columnse carnese especially near the apex, to which it may become firmly adherent, and from which it may extend up the pulmonary artery, form- ing a cast of the cusps at its orifice, and reach- ing well beyond the division of the artery into its main branches. Sometimes the clot com- mences at the cusps and extends into the larger pulmonary arteries; but here it rarely fills the whole lumen of the vessels, and is, as a rule, readily removable. Where one large pulmonary artery is specially thrombosed with firmly adherent clot, there is generally some definite explanatory circum- stance which is not, however, primary arterial disease, but rather a local lung condition, such as pneumonia, tuberculosis, or gangrene affect- ing the area involved, which had indirectly brought about changes in the vessel walls per- mitting of the coagulation. The clot may in such a case completely fill the vessel and be firmly adherent. It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that thrombosis is an inevitable result of em- bolism, both the distal vessels in the area affected being filled with clot, and also throm- bosis generally occludes the vessel on the proximal side up to the nearest patent branch. Thrombosis may also follow pressure on a pulmonary artery, such as a tumour might induce. It is very doubtful whether throm- bosis in the pulmonary arteries is ever of spontaneous origin as urged by Pitt, whose statements find some favour with Fowler. Cases of thrombosis have been described oc- curring in the general venous system, and simultaneously in pulmonary arteries ; but they are open to question, and it seems unlikely that any so-called spontaneous pulmonary throm- bosis occurs other than that commencing in the right heart. Once thrombosis has occurred, organisation of the clot follows. Generally the vessel becomes obliterated, although occasionally tunnelling of the clot by the formation of large blood spaces may enable circulation to be re-established to a certain degree. Thrombosis, apart from embolism, rarely causes hgemorrhagic infarction. Generally the affected area of lung undergoes collapse with considerable oedema, and often consolidation of lung. The clinical features must vary greatly. If thrombosis begins in the heart it may be merely an ante-mortem phenomenon, or, as sometimes happens in lobar pneumonia, it may cause sudden death. Localised thrombosis in a pneumonic or tuber- 682 •VASCULAR DISOEDERS LUNGS, DISEASES OF— cular lung, or where malignant infiltration is responsible for the condition, may add no special clinical feature other than increased dyspnoea and cyanosis especially on any exer- tion, and this alone may suggest to the physi- cian that thrombosis has taken place. The clinical features closely resemble infarction from embolism, and may be quite indistinguishable from it, and obviously little can be said as re- gards prognosis because so many varied degrees of thrombosis occur. The treatment as a rule is entirely preventive. Ammonia, ether, and general stimulants naturally suggest themselves to the physician as likely to avert thrombosis where it is to be dreaded. Once it has occurred, oxygen inhalations may aid the unaffected lung to overtake the extra call made upon it and opium might be given to allay pain and calm the feelings of dread and anxiety which greatly add to the patient's suiTerings. Pulmonary Embolism This is a very common condition wherever the right auricle becomes greatly enlarged and blood tends to clot in its appendix. It occurs, therefore, in any disease which induces marked enlargement of the right heart, and especially mitral stenosis. A bit of clot broken off enters the pulmonary artery and becomes impacted, generally where a small branch, which has per- mitted of its passage, divides into two smaller branches which are too narrow. The embolus may or may not contain septic organisms; it generally, as in the kind of case just referred to, does not. The following are the common sources and varieties of pulmonary emboli:— (1) Emboli from the heart, and especially from the appendix of the right auricle, and much more rarely from the right ventricle. Very occasionally, and probably where the right ventricle is too large or acting too weakly to admit of being properly emptied with each systole, clots form between the columnte carnese ; also where endocarditis exists in that chamber, and where clots form over an area of cardiac softening (infarction), portions of clot may be- come detached and form emboli. Lastly, cardiac emboli may result from endocarditis with vege- tations, simple or ulcerative, affecting either the tricuspid or pulmonary cusps. This is rare on the right side of the head, at least as a primary lesion, although more common secondary to endocarditis of the aortic or mitral valves ; but bits of clot may in such cases be detached from the vegetations, especially if they are ulcerating, and pulmonary emboli will result. (2) Where thrombosis, simple or septic, occurs in any of the veins of the body, part of the clot may be dislodged and form an embolus. Such travelling emboli may take origin in phlebitis, of such frequent occurrence in the veins of the legs in typhoid fever, anaemia, and many debili- tating diseases, or merely as the result of vari- cose veins. In the puerperium in women clots may be dislodged from uterine or pelvic veins ; and in middle-ear disease the lateral sinus may be plugged with clot frequently septic. These are among the commonest examples of throm- bosis in veins which may give rise to emboli. (3) A bit of clot may be displaced from the proximal part of the pulmonary artery and block a distant branch. This is a rare result of atheroma of the pulmonary artery, and some- times, as in one case of ulcerative endocarditis seen by the author, when a communication was established by ulceration between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, some vegetations pro- jected into the lumen of the pulmonary artery, and pulmonary embolism resulted from a portion of clot being broken off and swept into the pul- monary circulation. Rarely, also, may tumours perforate either a branch of the pulmonary artery or one of the systemic veins, and allow an embolus either of broken-off tumour or else clot to reach the lung. (4) Fat emboli blocking the capillaries rather than larger pulmonary arteries may result from fracture of a bone, or an extensive subcutaneous wound, and more rarely in diabetes mellitus where a lipsemic condition of the blood some- times exists. (5) Air emboli may result from venesection of the jugular vein in the neck, or the entrance of air by some means into the general venous circulation. This may cause sudden death, or if in smaller amount, it greatly interferes with the right ventricle in its action, causing great dilatation of that chamber and generally eventual death. (6) Hydatid cysts from rupture of a parent cyst have in very exceptional cases formed emboli. With so many varied sources of emboli the exact mode of blocking of a branch of the pul- monary artery will depend on the shape of the clot. Slowly formed emboli can sometimes be re- cognised by their stratified appearance ; and the presence of septic organisms invariably leads to suppurative changes. There is always a con- siderable amount of both distal and proximal thrombosis, the latter extending to the nearest patent branch. The block may be permanent, or the vessel may be reopened after organisation by tunnelling of the clot. Generally the walls of the vessel become thickened, and sometimes, although rarely, the vessel is dilated beyond the obstruction. The result of a pulmonary embolism varies greatly. Ordinary aseptic emboli, as in a case of mitral stenosis, form hgemorrhagic infarctions. The wedge-shaped area of lung denoting the domain of the blocked artery has its base at theVASCULAR DISORDERS LUNGS, DISEASES OF— 83 pleura as a rule, and at the apex careful ex- amination will disclose the plugged vessel with the embolus in situ. The infarction is usually in the lower part of the lung, and very often near the anterior or lower margin, apparently because emboli tend to enter the branches of the pulmonary artery, going to the lower lobe. The area of the infarction bulges prominently (after the lungs have been removed), and the pleura is generally covered by a thin layer of fibrinous lymph. The lung involved is firm and consolidated, and is suffused with blood which in time becomes absorbed, and gives the tissue more of a russet-brown than the earlier blood-red colour. Microscopically, the alveoli are found to be at first filled with red blood corpuscles, desquamated alveolar epithelium, and some fibrin; but later, considerable increase of interstitial tissue occurs. The bronchi in the neighbourhood may dilate. The infarctions are generally superficial, but they may be deep- seated in the lung substance, in which case they do not have the typical wedge shape, but are rounded or oval. These pulmonary infarctions vary greatly in size, generally measuring one to two inches at the base of the wedge; but a whole lobe may be involved, or on the other hand they may be of extremely small size. All infarctions are not hsemorrhagic, but it is desirable before referring to these to say a word or two in explanation of the haemorrhage into the obstructed area of lung. Pulmonary arteries are end arteries ; but the alveolar capillaries freely anastomose, and prob- ably from all sides blood pours into the area where the vessel walls or rather capillary walls have undergone a change, consequent on the embolism, permitting of free diapedesis. Prob- ably enough, according to Litten, the vessels of the pleura may help. The blood may escape by the bronchi and be freely expectorated, thus giving the patient suffering from backward pres- sure much relief; or no blood may be spat at all, although several large hsemorrhagic infarctions are present. Hamilton of Aberdeen holds that these hsemorrhagic apoplexies are not necessarily embolic in origin, and that they may be due to rupture of capillaries from pressure, the wedge-like shape being due to the distribution of the bronchial tubes. While there is no reason to suppose that such rupture never occurs, an embolus, or at least a thrombus, is almost always present, and can be found by careful examination near the apex of the wedge; and also Hamilton's theory would hardly explain the possibility of such apoplexies occurring without haemoptysis, and yet that clinical feature is sometimes wanting. An embolism plugging a large branch of the pulmonary artery may not cause a hsemorrhagic infarct, but may cause oedema and distension of lung, if almost immediately fatal; or it may cause collapse with some surrounding hypersemia and distension of lung. In capillary embolism oedema is a common result, but the degree varies greatly. Septic emboli cause septic infarction, and the wedge-shaped area, after passing through a more or less rapid pneumonic stage, breaks down and forms an abscess which may rupture into the pleura and set up a pyopneumothorax, often of a gangrenous type, or else the contents may be expectorated. A similar result may occur if in the area of infarction caused by an aseptic embolus septic organisms chance to be present. The author has seen one such case where there was no reason to suppose the original embolus was other than aseptic. Clinical Features.—Where a large branch is blocked a painful death is inevitable, and much dyspnoea, pain over the chest, marked cyanosis, and cold, clammy perspiration with a feeble rapidly acting heart, precede asphyxia with convulsive seizures or failure of the heart. In a less immediately fatal case the dyspnoea continues, but the heart regains somewhat of its old strength and regularity, and the patient may live for days or weeks with less pain but constant distress, and very often with marked Cheyne-Stokes breathing; should the area involved increase by thrombosis or a fresh embolism, death may ensue. Exophthalmos has sometimes been observed in these cases. Generally the patient, if he survive, begins to spit blood more or less freely. Capillary embolism following on fracture of a long bone is so apt to continue increasing, that death with extreme and ever-increasing dyspnoea is most probable. In the ordinary hsemorrhagic infarction or pulmonary asphyxia of a heart case no such desperate symptoms develop. There are both sudden cardiac pain, often localised to the region affected, and dyspnoea; but the distress soon yields, and the patient, generally in a few hours or days, spits blood. Sometimes friction may be heard over the area involved. Frequently tubular breathing with fine moist rales may be distinguished over an area of infarction, and should collapse occur, localised absence or enfeeblement of breath sounds may help in the diagnosis of the condition. A dull note on percussion is not infrequent, and in all probability evidence of dilatation of the right heart will not be wanting, while some- times, it is said, a pulmonary systolic murmur is heard. Should infarction be of a septic nature, the hectic temperature with typical sweating and sometimes diarrhoea will be present, while the brownish or chocolate- coloured often gangrenous smelling sputum, with sometimes development of pyopneumo- thorax, where it occurs, should render the diagnosis clear. There ought to be little difficulty in diagnosing most cases of pulmonary embolism—the causal conditions, the typicalLUNGS, DISEASES OF— 84 -VASCULAR DISORDERS dyspnoea, the local pain, and, when present, the physical signs, render recognition fairly easy. The prognosis is much more difficult to determine, because only in those cases of heart disease in which pulmonary infarctions are common, can we give generally a favourable opinion. But here also pulmonary emboli probably indicate that dilatation of the right heart is passing beyond the limit of compensa- tory hypertrophy, although their occurrence may not greatly incommode the patient. In any case of embolism the prognosis given should be most guarded, because a second embolism may occur, thrombosis may occlude more of the pulmonary circulation, and cardiac failure may supervene. Capillary embolism not merely causes extreme dyspnoea, but is apt to increase, and is therefore generally fatal. Treatment.—Whenever phlebitis exists, ab- solute rest should be enjoined, and much might be said about prophylactic measures during the puerperium, and in all conditions where blood- clotting occurs in the veins. Where embolism is present, rest, oxygen inhalations, opium for the pain and distress and possibly stimulants when necessary, are the only remedies likely to be of service. SyphiUs of the Lungs Our knowledge of both congenital and acquired syphilis is in a most unsatisfactory condition. With the exception of the typical interstitial and white pneumonias of congenital syphilis, and gimimata, common to both the congenital and the acquired forms, we know nothing definitely, and pulmonary lesions in cases of acquired syphilis are seldom of a purely syphilitic nature. 1. Congenital Syphilis.—There are two fairly distinct pneumonic varieties: (a) The white pneumonia of Virchow, which is found only in still-born children, or is compatible, at most, with only a few hours or days of life. It is a diffuse change in one or both lungs, and is sometimes confined to a lobe or part of a lobe only. On section the affected lung is white or yellowish, dry, shiny, may be almost bloodless, and if the child is still-born, is airless. The change consists in great thickening of alveolar walls and enormous proliferation of epithelial cells in the alveoli, most of which are dilated. The epithelial cells are markedly fatty. {h) The interstitial pneumonia rarely occurs alone, and generally is more or less combined with the white form. In its pure form it consists of a small-cell infiltration, which is interalveolar and interlobular in position ; de- struction and tortuosity of the interalveolar capillaries, with periarteritis and endarteritis obliterans of the smaller arteries: and peri- bronchial increase of connective tissue. The alveolar cells may have desquamated to some extent, but do not show the proliferation characteristic of the white form. These changes may involve one or both lungs, or be confined to a lobe or portion of a lobe, and if limited are compatible with life, although tending to cause pulmonary weakness, and a liability to bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, and so forth; if much lung is involved, life is bound to be shortened. Gummata also occur, especially in connection with the interstitial form. It is very rare to find these forms of pul- monary disease in cases of undoubted congeni- tal syphilis, and it is much more common to see infants, the subject of congenital syphilis, showing evidence of pulmonary tubei'culosis. Certainly congenital syphilis renders the child liable to bronchitis, taroncho-pneumonia, and, above all, to tuberculosis. 2. Acquired Si/philis.—Gummata occur in the tertiai-y stage, and possibly bronchitis may be associated with the typical secondary pharyn- gitis ; but beyond the cicatricial scars following in the wake of the gummata, and causing localised interstitial changes wherever gummata have appeared, and sometimes stenosis of the trachea or a bronchus, we know little or nothing of the eifects of acquired syphilis on the lungs. Gummata are single or multiple, and may be of all sizes, from a millet's seed to a hen's egg, although the larger ones are rare. They may occur anywhere, but preferably along the line of the larger bronchi and interstitial septa, and perhaps most markedly near the root, and in the lower lobe. These gummata resemble gum- mata elsewhere, passing through a gelatinous to a fibrous stage, and tending rather to form a fibrous nodule than to break down and form an abscess. The gummata may infiltrate sur- rounding lung tissue, and when cicatrisation begins, great distortion and scarring inevitably result. It has been suggested by Councilman that the process is originally a pneumonic one with thickening of capillaries, etc., and secondary necrosis ; but, generally, gummata are not found in post-mortem cases until cicatrisation is far advanced, and the earlier stages through which the nodule has passed are indistinguishable. There may be a form of fibroid phthisis due to acquired syphilis, and if so, it will probably commence at the root of the lung and work its way outwards along the septa with the forma- tion of gummata and resulting cicatrisation. It is very doubtful if true pulmonary excavation ever occurs due to syphilis alone, and as yet no absolute proof exists of any such condition. Narrowing of the trachea and bronchi may follow as the result of gummata and cause grave stenosis, sometimes with localised bronchi- ectatic dilatations; and it may be possible to diagnose such cases of stenosis by the stridor and feebler breath sounds over the affected lung, with sometimes evidence of bronchiectatic85 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—SYPHILIS cavity formation behind the stricture, with the expectoration of the usual very characteristic sputum. Dyspnoea varies in degree with the amount of interference with respiration, and the hectic temperature may yield some help where much bronchiectatic dilatation exists. The diagnosis is obviously extremely difficult, and the tubercle bacillus should be carefully excluded, although there is no reason why pulmonary tuberculosis and syphilis should not exist together. Certainly a syphilitic his- tory and the evidence of gummata elsewhere are of great help even although the lung suffers infinitely less frequently than any other organ in that disease. Prognosis.—Stenosis once developed is difficult to cure, although the development of fresh gummata may be arrested, and those not actually transformed into connective tissue may be made to disappear by vigorous antisyphilitic treatment. In one case in the writer's own experience fairly large gummata were found in both lungs, smaller ones with many cicatrices in the liver, and the patient succumbed after extensive cerebral thrombosis without having suffered much, if any, inconvenience from his pulmonary lesions. Treatment.—Prompt treatment with potas- sium iodide varied with mercury is indicated, and the greatest care should be taken of the patient's general health by administering tonics, such as iron, arsenic, and cod-liver oil. Baths suited for syphilitics, mainly for the mercurial inunction treatment practised at these resorts, are worthy of trial, and Woodhall Spa, Aii-la-Chapelle, and many others deserve to be mentioned. The usual medical treatment for bronchiec- tasis should be tried in cases where the stenosis has led to dilatation of bronchial tubes behind the stricture, but comparatively rarely can the stricture be dilated or otherwise relieved by surgical measures. Abscess of Lungs Suppuration is or may be a stage of several pulmonary diseases, fully described elsewhere; but abscess formation, in the usual acceptance of the term, is due to the following conditions :—■ (1) It may be the result of pneumonic con- solidation, lobar or lobular. Where hepatised lung does not resolve, yellow may succeed the grey stage of hepatisation ; and where a case of lobar pneumonia terminates fatally, whether the microbes present be Frankel's pneumococcus or other organisms, and perhaps most frequently where a mixed infection exists, evidences of part of the affected lung having broken down are not wanting as a rule. The condition may not actually be a well- defined abscess, but a glairy, purulent exudation may be obtained by pressure on the cut surface with the knife after making a section through the affected lung. There may be present, also, in a pneumonic lung small suppurative areas, probably due either to interference with the blood-supply to the part, pulmonary thrombosis, or else local infarction by pyogenic organisms. In many cases of lobular pneumonia the bronchial tubes are plugged with septic pus, and the lobules affected may have begun to break down. This is most likely to occur in aspiration pneumonias due either to inhalation of septic material from malignant or other ulceration of the respiratory tract including the nose, or to the inspiration of food; and, lastly, where the vitality of the lung has been interfered with, as by pressure on the vessels and nerves at its root in aneurysm, mediastinal tumour, etc. Cancer of the oesophagus frequently erodes the trachea, or sometimes one or both of the bronchi, just at their bifurcation; and while most probably the consequent suppurative changes in the lung will be of the nature of an inspiration pneumonia, considerable abscess for- mation may accompany the local infiltration of lung tissue by the tumour. (2) Pysemic abscesses may occur in the lung just as they do elsewhere. They are generally similar in position to ordinary pulmonary in- farction, namely subpleural, and may be wedge- shaped, and they may be very numerous. These septic infarctions rapidly form abscess cavities, frequently tend to become gangrenous, and generally cause very acute pleuritic exudation, while sometimes they perforate into the pleural sac. (3) Much more rarely an ordinary pulmonary infarction, due to clotting of blood in the right auricle or its appendix, may become secondarily infected by pyogenic organisms from the air- passages, and sometimes perforation into the pleural sac may follow. (4) A neighbouring abscess may open into the lung, as from the liver (tropical abscess, gumma, etc.), or a cancerous tumour of the stomach may open into the left lung through the dia- phragm. Special reference must also be made to suppuration of bronchial glands, mediastinal abscess, and empyemas, which may all involve the lung. (5) A foreign body from without may lodge in the lung, or a perforating wound through the chest wall may cause a local abscess of the lung. (6) In cases of amoebic dysentery, where tropical abscesses occur in the liver, they may also, although less frequently, be found in the lung, and two cases of the kind occurred in the writer's experience. The pus in one of these contained the amoeba and resembled in general appearance the typical abscesses in the liver. (7) In actinomycosis and aspergillosis, sup- puration and abscess formation is the rule.86 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—ABSCESS and occasionally pulmonary hydatid cysts sup- purate. (8) Abscess formation also occurs in tubercular disease of the lungs with cavity formation, and in some of the more virulent forms of pneumono- koniosis. While it would be impossible in a few words to describe all of these forms of pulmonary abscess in detail, it is only requisite to state that an abscess is almost always surrounded by an area of hypersemic lung more or less exten- sive, and generally the lung in the immediate neighbourhood shows well-marked catan-hal pneumonia. The clinical features vary greatly in different cases. When the abscess has emptied itself into a bronchus the signs of cavity formation may be readily obtained; but sometimes the abscesses are of small size and not easily diagnosed, and in pysemic conditions the patient's general con- dition is so grave that little attention may be drawn to the pulmonary condition. The sputum from a pulmonary abscess is often foetid, and may be gangrenous, and lung tissue can always be found in large amount in it. Where an abscess opens into the pleura, an empyema, or more probably a pyopneumothorax, will develop. There is little necessity for discussing the diagnosis or prognosis where so many varied forms of abscess formations are being considered together. As a rule, pulmonary abscess is a serious condition, and in not a few of the forms tabulated above, recovery is well-nigh impossible. The treatment varies with the different groups ; but a single abscess should be opened, if possible, and freely drained. Parasitic Affections of Lungs Aspergillosis . . . . . .86 Distommn Ringeri ..... 87 Actinomycosis ...... 88 Aspergillosis and Allied Conditions For many years, and certainly since Hughes Bennett's recorded case in 1842, infection of the lung by the spores of certain fungi has been a recognised disease. Mayer, in 1815, was probably the first to describe the fungi in relation to animals, and many cases have been described within the last twenty years. The Aspergillus fumigattis is the most common pathogenic fungus in the human air-passages, while occasional instances of infection by the Mucor corymbifer and the Oidium albicaiis have occurred, but they are so rare that it is sufficient to give an account of the first-mentioned variety only. The Aspeir/illus fumigatus is a typical mycelial fungus forming a network of fine threads which develop hyphee and spores. The spoi-es measure 2"5 to 3 "5 fx in diameter, and are almost the smallest spores of any of the aspergillus group of fungi. The fungus varies in colour to some extent with that of the habitat on which it is growing, and it flourishes at the body tempera- ture. The spores have a wide distribution in nature, occurring on the leaves and bark of any ordinary tree or plant, also on wheat, oats, barley, rye, maize, and rice; and the fungus may readily be cultivated by damping a piece of common bread, and keeping it in the oven at 40° C. for some hours, when vigorous colonies of the fungus will then make their appearance. The spores have a great vitality; they live for years, develop in all sorts of nutrient media, resist freezing, and they are not killed unless exposed to a temperatui-e of over 60° C. They also resist many of the weaker antiseptic solu- tions, and there is no loss of power of develop- ment with increasing age. No toxin is produced by the fungus in its growth, and it can grow in the lungs of many animals. When we think of the frequency with which every human being comes in contact with the spores, we naturally wonder why aspergillosis of the lungs is not a disease common to every member of the human race. The lungs and air-passages appear to be able to resist its growth, and it is highly prob- able that it is invariably a secondary infection superimposed on lung tissue already diseased, although a number of modern writers—Renon and others—claim that a primary pulmonary aspergillosis does exist. It certainly appears more reasonable to divide the disease into groups, placing in one group sporadic cases, which almost in every instance imply previous lung disease, and in the other, these cases occurring in trades where large numbers of spores would probably find their way into the lungs of those employed—as, for example, millers, and hair-combers, who constantly use large quantities of rice-flour in their work, partly in order to remove the greasiness from the hair. The dust of this flour often contains the spores in large numbers. There is also a special industry in Paris, that of rearing and training carrier pigeons. These pigeons are fed from the mouth of the trainer, morning and evening, and the food consists of canary seed and various other grains on which the spores are frequently found. Comparatively few are engaged in the pigeon trade, but hair- combing supplies not a few instances of what has been termed endemic aspergillosis. So full of dust is the air of the hair-comber's work- rooms, that birds and dogs soon die if confined to these apartments, cats alone appearing to be able to withstand the effects of inhaling dust laden with the spores. Apart from the cases due to the constant inhaling of dust with spores, it is extremely probable that many cases of the disease occur, and are simply not recognised because masked by other pulmonary conditions present. The disease itself simulates bronchitis and phthisis, acute or chronic, sometimes with much87 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PARASITIC AFFECTIONS pneumonic consolidation and often with cavity formation, and the patients expectorate spores and mycelial threads often mixed with blood. The following coexistent diseases have been noted in recorded cases as occurring with aspergillosis :—Emphysema; chronic bronchitis, and bronchiectasis; pulmonary tuberculosis, acute, subacute, and chronic; diabetes mellitus, and empyema; but the great majority are tubercular. Our knowledge of the post-mortem appear- ances of aspergillosis of the lungs is very insufficient. It is a form of pseudo-tuberculosis; the bronchial walls are much thickened, and in the pneumonic areas there are little masses of fungi, not unlike actinomycosis, while there may be the most extensive destruction of lung tissue. There is always active phagocytosis in the affected areas. In the so-called primary or endemic form occurring in pigeon-trainers and hair-combers, the lung condition induced by the fungus is either a process like chronic pulmonary tuberculosis, with cavity formation, or bronchitis or bronchiectasis, with later, pulmonary cirrhosis. The leading clinical features of the sporadic or secondary form are hsemoptysis (slight or severe), loss of appetite, and dyspepsia; a dry cough, with later purulent blood-stained ex- pectoration, and more or less rapid emaciation. The physical signs of cavity formation are easily distinguished, and are found situated in much the same locality as tubercular vomicae. Hectic temperature often begins, and the patient may either gradually recover or succumb to the disease. In the second or so-called primary form, the disease begins with bronchitis; the cough is often extremely severe, and may be asthmatic in type ; the sputum is frothy and watery. In time the cirrhotic process begins often at the apices, and the bronchitis may subside. In both these varieties spores, conidia, and mycelial threads may be found in considerable amount in the sputum, and the spores are often seen in bronchial cells. Very frequently the tubercle bacillus attacks the affected lung if it has not done so before, and rapidly aids the process of destruction. How the fungus becomes arrested in its development is a very difficult problem to solve. The fungus manufactures an enormous amount of carbonic acid gas; but it is questionable whether that fact will help as much, although so large may the quantity of carbonic acid gas evolved from the fungus be, that certain vege- tables or grain, if covered with growing fungus and stored in an unventilated room, have been known to cause asphyxia if anyone suddenly breathed the vitiated atmosphere. Lucet has found a pyrexial agent in the fungus ; but the accumulated experience of cases of the disease throws doubt on this statement, as there is no rise of temperature until ulceration has com- menced. Phagocytosis may be the salvation of the sufferer, with an improved resistance to the fungus and its spores; but more than this we cannot assert. The diagnosis is generally dependent on finding the spores, conidia, and mycelial thi'eads in the sputum, and in a very few rare cases detecting the fungus growing on tongue, tonsils, or pharynx (Wheaton's case). It, of course, stands to reason that the spores of such a common and universal fungus occur in both nose and throat of many healthy persons, as well as in those affected (Renon), and their occurrence in the outer ear (Siebenmann) has been definitely proved. The prognosis depends much on the individual case under consideration. The addition of the tubercle bacillus renders the patient's chance of recovery more remote. A few cases recover; but our knowledge is still too circumscribed, especially of secondary or sporadic cases. The treatment is partly prophylactic, and con- sists in freedom from dust in the work-rooms where the danger exists and the wearing of suitable respirators. Possibly, or rather we should say probably, a healthy man can and does inhale spores of Aspergillus fumigatus occa- sionally without ill effect, but any pulmonary lesion means more risk of infection. Antiseptic inhalations have been recom- mended, such as terebene, oil of peppermint, cinnamon, etc., but they are of most service in the ulcerative stage. Iodide of potash is also recommended for the bronchitic type of cases; but the main line of treatment is fresh air and attention to general health, with the alleviation of symptoms as they rise. Distomum Ringeri or Westermanni,—This is a distomum which causes haemoptysis, limited in its distribution to certain districts in Japan, Corea, and Formosa, where it attacks many of the inhabitants, although it has been found in some animals, such as the tiger, cat, and dog, over a much more extensive area. The distomum is 8 to 10 mm. in length by 5 to 6 ram. in breadth, is reddish-brown in colour, and in general appearance is much like the other members of the genus to which it belongs. The ova, about "1 mm. in diameter, are oval and of a brownish colour. The mature parasite is found in incapsulated spaces under the pleura; these spaces communicate with a bronchus by which the ova escape. Some twelve to twenty of these mature distoma may occur in the lung, although they may occasionally be found widely distributed in other organs. The clinical features are cough, with brown- ish-coloured sputum containing the ova and many recurring haemorrhages, which are quite inexplicable. Prognosis depends much on the number of distoma present and the strength of the patient.88 LUNGS, DISEASES OF—PARASITIC AFFECTIONS while the treatment is still very unsatisfactory even in the direction of prophylaxis. Actinomycosis of Lnngs.—The reader is re- ferred to vol. i. p. 52 for a full description of actinomycosis. It is only necessary here to refer to the special pulmonary lesions which the micro-organism may cause. There may be (1) little excepting acute bronchitis ; there may be (2) small nodules resembling miliary tubercu- losis in appearance and distribution; or there may be (3) larger or smaller areas of lung in- volved, forming caseous areas or abscesses vary- ing in size, with much interstitial change in the neighbouring lung tissue. The exact course of the disease in the third type of cases will depend largely on the presence and virulence of adventitious pyogenic organisms. The clinical features will vary greatly; but, as a rule, the disease runs a chronic course, and, so far as the lung is concerned, suggests pulmonary tuberculosis. The treatment is on general lines ; iodoform insufflations, and potassium iodide internally, have been recommended, and are, at least, worthy of trial. Lunula,.—The white, more opaque, semi- lunar part of the nail near the root; also any structure having this shape and appearance, e.g. the lunulpe of the valves of the heart. Lupanme. See Lupinus. Luperine.—A mixture, said to contain gentian, calumba, and quassia, recommended in cases of dipsomania for the purpose of pro- ducing aversion to alcoholic drinks. Lupinidine. See Lupinus. Lupinine. Lupinus. LupinOSiS. See also Lathyrism ; Lupi- nus; Liver, Diseases of (Aciite Yellou) Atr-oph?/, Diagnosis from Lupinosis) ; and Toxicoi.ogy {Vegetable Foods, Vetch).—A morbid state due to the eating of certain lupines, which, when it affects sheep, shows itself by jaundice, delirium, hfemorrhages, and acute yellow atrophy of the liver; it may be due not so much to the lupines themselves as to certain fungi growing upon them, or to a toxic principle (lupinotoxin) de- veloped in them under special circumstances ; it is often fatal; and the name is sometimes used as a synonym of lathyrism (q.v.). Lupinus.—A genus of the Natural Order of the LeguminosEB, containing lupinus albus, I. angustifolius, I. luteus, I. sativus, etc.; yellow lupine contains a crystallisable alkaloid, hipinine (C21H4QN2O2), and white lupine an uncrystal- lisable one. Lupinidine is a liquid alkaloid (CgHjgN) got from /. luteus; and lupanine, also a liquid alkaloid (C15H25N2O is got from I, angustifolius. Lupoid. — Resembling lupus {q.v.), e.g. lupoid ulcer of rectum {see Rectum, Diseases OF—Lupoid Ulceration of Anus and Rectum). Lupuiinum. See Hops. Lupuius. See Hops. Lupus. See Alopecia {Varieties and Associations); Larynx, Chronic Infective Dis- eases {Lupus of Larynx); Lung, Tuberculosis OF {Complications, Integ%mnentary); Lupus Ery- thematosus ; Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases {Lupus); Palate {Diseases, Lupus); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Lupus); Skin, Tuberculosis of {Lupus); Radium ; X-Rays {Treatmejit of Lupus). Lupus Erythematosus. Definition ...... 88 Description ...... 89 Sebaceous Type. Erythematous Type. Telangiectic Type. Etiology and Histology ... 90 Prognosis ...... 90 Diagnosis 90 Treatment . . . . . .91 Lupus erythematosus is a chronic inflammatory disease of the skin which differs from the majority of similar diseases by its almost in- variable termination in a scar. It was first described by Biett, in 1828, under the name of erythema centrifugum ; then by Hebra, in 1845, as seborrhoea congestiva; and lastly by Cazenove, in 1851, who applied to it the name which it has since borne. Unna has recently suggested the name of ulerythema centrifugum {ovXrj, a scar), but although un- doubtedly more descriptive than any of the others, it has not succeeded in disestablishing the common and familiar name. The local incidence of the disease varies very much, it being commoner in the colder countries, such as Norway and Scotland, than in warmer ones such as Italy and France. It occurs most frequently in the female sex, in the proportion of 2 to 1, and although cases have been reported in the young and old, the vast majority of cases occur in adults. In the statistics of the skin department of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, it stands as follows:—Out of 4500 consecutive cases, lupus erythematosus: females, 29; males, 15; average age, 32. The head and the hands are the region of the body which are specially affected, the most common situations being the bridge of the nose and the cheeks, from which distribution has arisen the name of "butterfly lupus"—the disease on the nose forming the body, and that on the cheeks the wings of the insect. The order of frequency in which other parts are attacked is, according to Kaposi, the alse nasi.LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS 89 eyelids, ears, lips (including the red portion), and the fingers and toes (flexor surfaces). Kaposi also states that " in many cases " the mucous membrane of the gums, cheeks, and tongue is affected by a similar change ; but this is not often observed in this country. German authorities mainly follow Kaposi in describing only two forms of the disease—the discoid and the disseminate; but in Great Britain a greater number of distinct varieties occur. Description.—The various names all suggest one or other feature of some form of the disease. Some are scaly (the sebaceous type); others are erythematous; while a third class is associated with very marked dilatation of the capillaries, and is known as the telangiectic form. While undoubtedly the disease usually terminates in a scar, more marked in some cases than in others, Kaposi rightly points out that in some cases the disease leaves no trace of its presence. In the sebaceous type of the disease (which is practically the only form found in the scalp) the first sign is a little redness surrounding a minute scale, which at first sight very closely resembles that of seborrhoea. It is, however, more closely adherent to the scalp, and when it is forcibly removed it is found to have been anchored by a root-like projection from its under surface. When the scale has reached a more considerable size its colour may be noted to be less yellow and more greyish in appearance than the seborrhoeic one, while the numerous stalactite-like processes hanging from its under surface have a very characteristic appearance. When examination was purely clinical, it was a very natural assumption that the openings from which these were drawn were the mouths of sebaceous glands; but histological examination has shown that the assumption was incorrect, that many of them are mechanical depressions independent of any glandular structure. As the disease progresses (in the scalp) the centre sinks in, pales, the hairs disappear, and a patch of permanent alopecia results. The border is elevated, often of a bluish-red colour, and ii-regularly gyrate in form. The disease is perhaps most often in this situation confined to one considerable spot, but not infrequently four or five lesser ones are observed. On the face, where this form of the disease frequently occurs, the course followed is very similar, though as a general rule the scarring is not so marked, probably owing to the fact that the loss of the hair exaggerates the cicatricial appearance. On the ears, where a combination of the erythematous and sebaceous form is the rule, scarring is usually well marked, and there is often a considerable loss of substance. The erythematous type of the disease, that from which Biett evidently took his description and name, occurs on the face and hands. It commences as a raised red spot, which slowly enlarges and forms a ringed patch, the centre sinking in and becoming atrophic, thus forming a more or less marked scar. The raised border is reddish-brown in colour, only exceptionally showing the violaceous tinge usual on the scalp, and it is frequently marked (stippled) with a number of greyish-white dots, which are found on histological examination to be the minute representatives of the root-like processes of the scaly form. The duration of each individual spot varies greatly: some disappear in a week, leaving hardly any trace of their presence ; others last for months, and leave a very distinct parchment-like scar. In rare cases the exuda- tion, which is always present in the skin, makes its way to the surface, and vesicles, bullae, or even hpemorrhages may be observed. On the hands the appearances so closely re- semble those of the common chilblain that it is often impossible to decide as to the nature of a case which occurs for the first time at the chilblain period of the year. Only the slight atrophic scarring and the persistence of the disease after the cold weather has disappeared enable a distinction to be made. The telangiectic form which Kaposi does not refer to has been several times noted in this country. It occurs on the face, and is usually symmetrical. Little is evident but an advancing wave of dilated capillaries, leaving in its trail a smooth white scar. There is no scaling and comparatively little swelling of the tissues; indeed, it is practically only the scar which is left which shows its relationship to the other forms of the disease. Kaposi's lupus erythematosus disseminatus, extreme examples of which are fortunately very rare in this country, may be looked on as an acute eruption of the erythematous type. Numbers of spots appear on every part of the surface : some quickly disappear; others last for months, remaining, however, of their original form ; the increase is in number, and not in the size of the spots. The outbreak sometimes occurs without marked symptoms, but is some- times accompanied by high fever and pains, or even effusion in the joints, swelling of the glands, headache, etc. In some cases there is an erysipeloid swelling of the face; a typhoid condition develops, there is high temperature and coma, and half of the cases observed have terminated fatally. Less marked outbreaks of this kind are not infrequent in the course of other varieties of the disease. Thus a patient who has been under observation for some time with one typical patch of the sebaceous form of the disease will one day present himself with a fresh crop of erythe- matous spots, which were it not for the history of the case it would be difficult to recognise as lupus erythematosus. The majority of the spots are evanescent and leave no trace of their90 LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS existence; but one or two usually remain, and gradually assume an appearance more character- istic of the disease. Etiology.—Nothing definite is known as to the cause of the disease, and the conjectures and theories held by different observers vary very much. The view that there was really little difference between the disease and lupus vulgaris (tuber- culosis), so long held by eminent authorities, has been abandoned by almost all; but the French school has recently resuscitated the idea in another form, and have classed the disease among their section of " tuberculides." A tuberculide is a disease of the skin which is due to tuberculosis, and yet is not tuberculosis, and it is supposed to be caused by toxin, pro- duced by tubercle bacilli in some hidden focus, circulating in the blood. This theory has a few hesitating supporters in this country; but the majority of British authors side with the German school, whose views are emphatically expressed by Kaposi in the statement that "lupus erythematosus has not the least thing in common with L. vulgaris." Out of 11 fatal cases of lupus erythematosus occurring in Kaposi's practice the post-mortem showed—in 6, pneumonia ; in 3, tuberculosis of the lung; in 1, meningeal oedema; and in the other, marasmus and aucemia. If every case of lupus erythematosus were due to the presence of some hidden focus of tubercle, it is surely not too much to expect that in fatal cases there would at least be sufficient evidence of that disease not to escape the notice of the Professor of Pathology in Vienna. Facts of interest in regard to etiology are its preference for the female sex, its greater fre- quency in the older countries, and the very common occurrence of chilblain in its victims. Deficient vigour of the circulation appears to be a predisposing cause. Histology.—Sections of the skin show, when the process is at its height, an enormous in- filtration of the skin with cells and fluid; the epidermis is thinned, and its cells are flattened by the pressure of the exudation beneath and of the scales above. The glands and follicles of the skin are in- volved in the general inflammatory change, but the disease is by no means specially related to them, as was thought by the earlier observers. Holden {II. of Cut. Dis. 1897, p. 207) ob- served thrombosis of the small vessels in two cases which he examined, and suggests that this may have an important bearing on the nature of the disease. Unna {Histo-Pathology of the Skin, p. 1072) points out that the infiltration commences round the vessels, and that the multinuclear and giant cells seen in tuberculosis and sj^philis are altogether absent. He notes as important the widening out of the lymph spaces in the centre of the cellular area, which he calls " channel- ling." In more advanced stages the supporting tissues give way, dilated lymph spaces rupture into adjacent ones, and thus a very complete disintegration of the tissue results, the repair of which results in the well-known scar. No organisms are detectable, and inoculation experiments have invariably proved negative. Prognosis. — In the disseminate form the prognosis is grave. Six out of Kaposi's eleven cases terminated fatally, and a widespread case is always serious. In the more localised form, and in the slighter form of the disseminate variety which sometimes occurs in the course of a localised case, the prognosis qua life is favourable, but it is im- possible to prognosticate with regard to the duration of the disease. Some cases recover rapidly, others last for years. In the experience of the writer the erythematous form has the best prognosis, and the scaly, especially on the scalp, the worst. Diagnosis.—For the purposes of differential diagnosis it is necessaiy to consider the disease as it affects different localities. On the scalp it more nearly resembles a well-cared-for patch of favus than any other disease, and from this as from ringworm, to which the resemblance is not very great, it is easily enough distinguished by the absence of any fungus. With alopecia areata it can only be confused if the alopecia has been treated by some irritant application, for the margin of a patch of lupus erythematosus is raised and red. On the face rapidly spreading circles of L. erythematosus sometimes very closely resemble ringworm. They may be distinguished by their simultaneous, as opposed to the successive appearance of the rings of ringworm, and by the absence of fungus-containing scales. From seborrhoea it is distinguished by the presence of the little projections on the under surface of the scales, and from eczema and rosacea, which it sometimes very closely re- sembles, by the fine scars which it leaves, by the presence of the stalactite-carrying scales, and by the peculiar stippling of the margin. It is most closely simulated by the great imitator syphilis. It is true that the syphilitic lesions are more often unilateral and more rapid and destructive in their course, but the writer has seen it so closely imitated as to deceive most competent observers. A careful search will, however, almost certainly detect some other evidence of syphilis in the presence, perhaps, of some long-forgotten scar or, as in the case referred to, in a perforation of the palate. The difficulty of diagnosis between L. erythe- matosus of the fingers and toes and chilblains has already been alluded to. Fortunately, the disease is usually present in more characteristic form elsewhere, or some bygone spot may haveLUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS 91 left a tell-tale scar, otherwise a diagnosis must often be reserved until the return of warm weather decides the matter. Treatment.—The treatment of any disease of which the cause is unknown is necessarily symptomatic and empirical. Something, how- ever, may be deduced from histological observa- tion, viz., to avoid irritating and to do all that is possible to dry the part. The disease is extremely sensitive to irritation, and since the course is usually long it is of the utmost im- portance not to destroy the confidence of the patient at the commencement by risliing any application which might spread the disease. Internal medication is rarely of much value. Some benefit is sometimes observed after the administration of quinine or phosphorus, but they and other drugs so frequently prove abso- lutely useless that they are but rarely given. The safest of all applications are drying powders and powder-containing non-irritating lotions. A lotion containing calamine and oxide of zinc aa gss., boric acid 33., glycerine 3ij., and water up to §vj., is an excellent remedy to commence with. It should be painted over the diseased area three or four times a day. The erythe- matous form of the disease may often be treated with benefit by the application of collodion, either simple or variously medicated. Salicylic acid, resorcin, or pyrogallol are often added to it in the proportion of from 5 to 10 per cent. Oxidised pyrogallol 1 per cent in acetone collo- dion has proved especially useful in the writer's hands. For the sebaceous form of the disease more active treatment is required. The treat- ment recommended by Hebra of vigorous friction with soft soap and flannel is very useful for small patches. The patch should be rubbed until it bleeds, and then painted over with the calamine lotion. Mercury plaster is recommended by some, and the writer has found a combination of soft soap and metallic mercury, 3-1, useful in these cases. It must be rubbed well in. Kaposi ad- vises in obstinate cases painting with caustic potash solution 1-2, and weaker solutions such as the liq. potass of the Phar. Brit, are often used with benefit. It is a remarkable fact that these powerful applications cause less reaction in the majority of cases than the application of a simple grease such as common lard. This arrests the natural evaporation from the sur- face, and the parts beneath " heat." Unna sometimes deliberately inflames the part by the application of a 10 per cent oint- ment of pyrogallol. After the inflammation has subsided there is often considerable im- provement in the disease, but it is a method which should only be used in expert hands. Some recommend various surgical methods; but before using any of these, careful considera- tion should be given to the fact that the disease terminates spontaneously with a very perfect scar, and therefore any method which results in marked scarring, such as scraping or burning, is hardly justifiable. On the other hand, when used by those familiar with the effects of the methods and the natural course of the disease, their use is amply warranted. Lassar applies the thermo-cautery very lightly to tlie surface, or even simply approaches it close to the skin ; Crocker and Veiel advocate multiple scarifica- tion ; and Unna uses his microbenner, a very finely-pointed cautery, with which he destroys minute areas over the surface. It is hardly conceivable that scraping is ever justifiable. It is usually resorted to by those who do not realise the distinction between this disease and lupus vulgaris. The slow course of the malady must be borne in mind, and each treatment should have a thorough trial. To those only occasionally meeting with the dis- ease the methods most to be recommended are (1) calamine lotion, (2) acetone collodion with 1 per cent of oxidised pyrogallol, and (3) Hebra's soap treatment. Lupus Vulgraris. See Skin, Tuber- culosis OF. LuSChka'S Bursa.—A large crypt in the pharyngeal tonsil, probably representing the vestigial pharyngeal end of the evaginatioa which forms the pituitary body. Luschka's Foramina.—Two lateral openings between the fourth ventricle of the brain and the posterior subarachnoid space; there is one larger, median opening, the foramen of Magendie. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy). Luschka's Fossa.—The ileocolic fossa. Luschka's Gland.—The name given to the pharyngeal tonsil, to the coccygeal gland, or to the intercarotid gland. Luschka's Muscle.— The muscular fibres of the utero-sacral ligaments at their place of insertion into the uterus. See Uterus, Displacements of the {Normal Mobility of the Uterus). Lusk'S Method.—A plan of skin-graft- ing in which the epidermis raised by a blister is used as the graft. See Skin-Grafting and Allied Procedures {Methods). LUSUS Naturae.—A freak or play of nature ; a sport; a malformation; a monstro- sity. See Teratology. Lutaud'S Lotion.—A lotion containing chloral, cocaine, and oil of eucalyptus, used to allay the itching in pruritus vulvae, etc. Lutein.—The deep yellow pigment (Lat. luteus, yellow) of the yolk of eggs and of the corpora lutea of the human ovary. See Pig- ments OF the Body {Lipochromes or Luteins).LUTEOLIN 92 Luteolin.—A yellow matter (C20H24O3) obtained from weld {Reseda luteola); from its oxidation liiteolein is produced. Luxation. See Dislocation, and cross- references. Lyca,nthropy.—A form of insanity in which the person affected imagines himself to be a wolf and shows lupine characters (Gr. AuKos, a wolf, and av^pwTros, man). Lycetol. — Dimethylpiperazine tartrate (CgHj4N2C4.HgOo), recommended in gout and the uric acid diathesis in doses of 15 to 45 grains. LyCOpodium.—A pale yellow, tasteless, and odourless powder consisting of the spores of club-moss {Lyco2wdium clavatum), used as a dusting powder, as a desiccant, as a basis for insufHations, and to prevent pills adhering to each other ; it contains a fixed oil and an alkaloid {lycopodine, C32H52N2O3); it is official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia but not in the British; if set fire to, it burns with a slight explosion and no smoke. Lye. See LixiviATiON. Lying-in.—The puerperal state, e.g. the lying-in room is the chamber occupied by a woman who has recently been confined, and a Lying-in Hospital is a Maternity Hospital. Lymph. See Fluids, Examination of Pathological (Normal and Abnormal Lymph) ; Leucocyth^mia ; Lymphatic System, Physi- ology AND Pathology of ; Ovaries, Diseases of (Broad Ligament Cysts) ; Physiology, Blood AND Lymph (Lymph); Thymus Gland (Status Lymphaticus); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases OF (Lymph Scrotum); Vaccination. Lymphadenectasis.—A tumour due to the distension of the spaces in a lymph gland. Lymphadenia. See Lyjiphatic System (Lymphadenoma). Ly m p il ad e n it i S.—Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the lymphatic glands. See Lym- phatic System (Lymp)hadenitis). Lymphadenoma.—A morbid state in which the spleen and the lymphatic glands are enlarged, in which there are nodular growths in the liver, lungs, spleen, etc., and in which at a later stage anjemia (without leukajmia) de- velops ; it is related in some way with leucocy- thtemia, with tuberculosis (glandular), and with lympho - sarcoma. See Bronchi, Bronchial Glands (Morbid Anatomy., in Lymphadenoma); Hodgkin's Disease ; Liver, Diseases of (Lym- phadenoma) ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphadenoma) ; Pruritus (Catisation); Vvrpvra (Syinptomatic, Cachectic); Spleen, Medical Affections of (Splenomegaly); Thymus Gland (Diseases). Lymphadenosis. See Lympha- denoma. Ly m p h SLgOg U es. — S ubstances which cause an increase in lymph-production with or without an accompanying increase in blood pressure. See Fluids, Examination of Patho- logical (Transudates and Exudates). Lymphangiectasis. —Dilatation of the lymphatic vessels; lymphangioma; lym- phatic varix. See Lymphatic System, Physiol- ogy and Pathology (Dilatation of Lymphatics); Tumours of the Skin (Lymphangiectodes, Lym- phangioma circumscriptum). Lymphangio- Endothelioma.— An endothelioma (q.v.) originating in the lym- phatic vessels. Lymphangioma. — A congenital or acquired tumour consisting of dilated lymphatic vessels and lymph - containing spaces. See Capillaries, Diseases of [Angioma); Lym- phatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels); Peritoneum, Tumours of {Lymphangiomata); Tumours {Con- nective Tissue Type, Lymphangiomata). Lymphangioma Tuberosum Multiplex. — A rare disease of the skin, first described by Kaposi, characterised by the appearance of pigmented papules or tubercles, consisting of dilated lymphatics in the skin of the trunk, LymphangiO-Phlebitis. — Inflam- mation affecting both the lymphatics and the veins. LymphangiO - Sarcoma. — A tu- mour containing the elements of a lymphangi- oma as well as of a sarcoma. Lymphangitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. See Filariasis (Pathogenetic Effects, Lymphangitis); Groin (Diseases, Affec- tions of Lymphatic Glands); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Diseases of Lym- phatic Vessels). Lymphatic Glands. See Axilla (Anato7ny of, Glands) ; Glandular Fever (Clinical Featxhres); Groin (Anatomy of. Glands); Groin (Diseases of. Glands) ; Leuco- CYTHyEMiA (Symptoms, Enlargement of Glands); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Anatomy, Diseases, etc.); Physiology, Blood (Sources of the Blood Constituents); Physiology, Circulation (General Arrangement, Lymphatic Pressure); Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis (Clinical Characters, Lymphatic Glands); Tuber- culosis (Lesions of the Various Organs, Lym- phatic Glands).93 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF Lymphatic System, Physio- logy and Pathology of. Lymph— Composition . . ■ ■ .93 Formation . . ■ ■ .93 Movements . . ■ • .94 Functions . . ■ ■ .96 Lymphatic Vessels .... 96 Lymphatic Glands— Structure ■ ■ ■ ■ .96 Functions . . - • .97 Distribution, Table of . • ■ 98 Thoracic Duct 100 Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels— Acute Lymphangitis .... 101 Chronic „ .... 101 Dilatation of Lymphatics . . ■ 101 Diseases of Lymphatic Glands— Acute Lymphadenitis . . .102 Chronic „ ■ .102 Simple „ ■ ■ .102 Tubercular Lymphadenitis . .102 Syphilitic „ . .103 Enlargements in General Diseases . 103 Enlargements in Malignant Disease . 103 Lymphadenoma . . . .103 Status Lymphaticus or Lymphatism . 106 Thymus-Tod" . . . .107 Lymphodermia Perniciosa . . 107 Lymphatic Circulation of the Central Nervous System— Physiology and Pathology . .107 See also Lymphatic Glands (and cross-refer- ences) ; Lymphatic Vessels (and cross-refer- ences) ; Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland ; ETC. Lymph.—Composition.—As much of what has to be said with regard to lymph formation can only be understood after reference to its com- position, and to its relation to the blood-plasma, the percentage composition of the two fluids may here be cited. There are, of course, slight variations in different animals and under different circumstances which need not be discussed, but I have added the composition of chyle as illus- trating one of the variations of lymph :— Blood-Plasma. Lymph. Chyle. Water . 90-15 95 90-6 Total Solids . 9-sr. 5 9-4 Total Proteids . 8'8 4 2-2 Fats (all kinds). 0-2 0-4 6-4 Salts 0-8 0-8 0-8 Ordinary lymph is, therefore, in all respects similar to blood-plasma, except for the fact that it is poorer in proteids. The proteids in the two seem, however, to be identical; the pi'ocess of coagulation is the same, though the clot is looser and less rapidly formed (vide " Fluids, Examination of Pathological," vol. iii. p. 300 et seq). Formation.—The obvious view of this is that lymph is part of the blood-plasma which has passed through the capillary wall, bathes the tissue elements, and is collected by the lym- phatics to be returned to the blood by the thoracic duct. For years, however, there has been fierce discussion as to the way in which this exudation takes place. The two main views which have been advanced are, first, that originally put forward by Ludwig that the process is in the main one of filtration and diffusion ; and, second, that of Heidenhain, that the lymph is secreted by the endothelial cells of the capillary wall, and that the process is, therefore, rather a " vital " than a " physical " one. The experiments on which Heidenhain relied may be grouped in three sets:— 1. Obstruction of the thoracic aorta causes a general fall of arterial blood-pressure below the obstruction. In spite of this the flow of lymph from the thoracic duct may remain unaltered or be slightly increased. 2. Obstruction of the inferior vena cava above the diaphragm causes a general fall of blood- pressure, and the intestines become anfemic. There is an increased flow of a more concentrated lymph from the thoracic duct. Heidenhain believed that this lymph came from the in- testines. 3. The intravenous injection of two classes of bodies, both of which increase the lymph-flow. The first set of these " lymphagogues " are such substances as commercial peptone and watery extract of leeches or crayfish. These cause an increased flow of more concentrated lymph. The second set are such crystalloids as common salt and sugar. Injection of concentrated solu- tions of these cause an increased flow of less concentrated lymph, and some time after in- jection the lymph contains a greater percentage of the lymphagogues than does the blood-plasma. There may be a slight rise in blood-pressure, but this is not proportionate to the increase in the flow of lymph. Heidenhain thus found that the flow of lymph may be increased in amount in all these experiments without a correspond- ing rise in the blood-pressure (which he con- sidered necessary on the filtration hypothesis), and that in the last set of experiments the amount of injected substance in the lymph might rise above that in the blood, which could not be considered to be the case if diffusion came into play. He believed, therefore, that the process must be one of secretion rather than of exudation. Starling, who has repeated Heidenhain's experiments, and who is one of the main upholders of Ludwig's original view, considers that instead of overthrowing this view the experiments strongly support it. His line of94 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF argument is as follows:—When an animal is at rest on the table there is no flow of lymph from the hind-limbs at all; the flow from the fore-limbs and head is excluded by the conditions of the experiment, and there is no flow from the thorax, since ligature of the thoracic duct just above the diaphragm stops the lymph-flow completely. Thus, in such experiments, the flow from the thoracic duct is derived entirely from the abdominal viscera, and these, for present purposes, may be divided into two groups—the viscera drained by the portal vein, and the liver. By tying different lymphatics and blood-vessels, Starling succeeded in showing that the increased lymph-flow was derived, not from the intestines or portal area as Heidenhain thought, but from the liver. The increased concentration of the lymph, found when the vena cava is obstructed, is due to the fact that the lymph from the liver is normally more concentrated than that from the intestine, or than the mixed lymph which flows from the thoracic duct, and the obstruction of the vena cava raises the pressure in the portal vein and liver capillaries very greatly. That is to say, there is a great rise of blood-pressure in the region where the lymph is produced. When the thoracic aorta is obstructed the pressure in the liver capillaries is either unaltered or else slightly increased, and the same is the case with the lymph-flow from the thoracic duct, and the lymph-production in the abdominal organs is thus shown to be directly proportional to the capillary pressure in these organs. Further, an increase in lymph-flow may be produced by causing a rise in the capillary pressure by injecting large quantities of normal saline solution intravenously; and that the increase is not due simply to the altered con- dition of the blood may be shown by first bleeding the animal to a given amount, and then injecting the same quantity of normal saline, when the corresponding increase in lymph-flow does not take place, though there is a slight increase due to the hydrsemia. The action of Heidenhain's second class of lympha- gogues (salt, sugar, potassium iodide) is also due to the increase of capillary pressure which their injection produces. This increase is pro- duced, not by the actual volume of fluid injected, but by the fact that the strong solutions used have a much higher osmotic pressure than normal blood-plasma. They attract fluid from the tissues until a great dilution of the blood is produced, and a con- sequent rise in capillary pressure in the abdo- minal viscera and an increased flow of lymph are brought about. Capillary pressure is not, however, the only factor which determines the flow of lymph : the permeability of the membrane through which it passes, the capillary wall, is also of import- ance. Normally this permeability varies con- siderably in different parts of the body, being highest in the liver capillaries, less in those of the intestine, and least of all in the limbs. We find that this results in a great difference in the percentage of proteid present in the lymph from these tracts. In that of the liver it is from 6 to 8 per cent (nearly as much as in the blood-plasma), of the intestine from 4 to 6 per cent, of the limbs only from 2 to 3. It is possible experimentally to increase the permea- bility of the limb capillaries by such local injury as plunging the limb into water at 56° C. for a few minutes. Lymph then begins to flow spontaneously from the lymph-vessels of the limb, and it is much richer in proteids than is lymph from a normal limb. The action of Heidenhain's first class of lymphagogues may be explained in this way, for these substances (extract of leeches or crayfish or peptone) are poisons, and, far from stimulating the endo- thelial cells to activity, are much more likely to injure them, and in so doing to increase the permeability of the capillary wall, and thus to increase the lymph-flow, especially from the liver. It seems to me, therefore, that we are quite entitled to conclude with Starling that the formation of lymph depends on the two factors, the intra-capillary blood-pressure and the per- meability of the capillary wall, and that its composition will depend on these two factors and on the changes produced in it by diffiision and osmosis between itself and the tissues which it bathes. There is no evidence that the endo- thelial cells actively form lymph; their only function is to act as a filtering membrane, and all injuries to them interfere with this function, and make them more permeable. The nervous system has no direct influence on the formation of lymph, but may influence it by altering capillary pressure through its action on the muscular fibres of blood-vessels. The Movements of Lymph.—From what has been said in the previous section, it will be evident that as the lymph passes through the capillary wall under the influence of the blood- pressure, it is this pressure, and therefore primarily the contractions of the heart, which initiate the movement of the lymph through the tissue spaces towards the lymph-vessels, and along these. But there are other sub- sidiary factors. The respiratory movements cause a variation in the flow from the thoracic duct. Each inspiration, that is, each descent of the diaphragm, causes an increase of pres- sure in the abdomen and a fall in the thorax, which empties the abdominal lymphatics and the receptaculum chyli into the thoracic duct. Each expiration reverses the pressure in the thorax and abdomen, causes a collapse of the thoracic duct, and as the valves in the duct pre- vent any reflux into the abdomen, the lymph is forced on into the veins. Each inspiration,95 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF moreover, causes a negative pressure in the intrathoracic veins, which must cause a suction of lymph from the thoracic duct into the sub- clavian vein. The contractions of all the muscles of the body also press on the lymphatic vessels passing through them, and as there are valves in these vessels the lymph is forced always in the same direction. In amphibia, birds, and reptiles, though not in mammals, there are lymph hearts, muscular sacs which assist in lymph circulation. Their place is supplied in mammals, to a certain extent, by the muscular fibres which are found in the walls of the larger lymphatic vessels, while the flow of chyle through the lacteals is assisted by the contraction of the muscular fibres of the intestinal villi. It is quite certain, however, that not all the lymph which is poured out into the tissue spaces is passed on to the lymphatic vessels and thoracic duct; a very considerable amount of it is reabsorbed by the blood-vessels. In a resting limb, for instance, the nutrition of the muscles goes on without there being any lymph- flow at all from the main lymphatic trunk of the limb, and there are now many experiments on record proving that colouring matters, salts, etc. are absorbed from serous cavities and con- nective tissue spaces with much greater rapidity by the blood-vessels than by the lymphatics. For example, if methylene-blue is injected into the pleura, the dye appears in the urine within five minutes, while the lymph flowing from the thoracic duct shows no trace of it for another twenty minutes, or sometimes much longer. Further, the extreme rapidity with which effects follow on the hypodermic injection of drugs into connective tissue spaces in the arm, for example, could not be attained if the drug had to pass along the circuitous route of the lymphatics with their slow circulation. The process here is evidently one of diffusion be- tween the blood and the extra-vascular fluids, and the currents between the two will continue as long as any difference in composition exists between them. But this explanation will not help us if we consider the absorption of ordi- nary lymph or of dropsical fluids, that is to say, of fluids which are isotonic with and prac- tically the same as blood-plasma. Some light is thrown on the subject by bleeding experi- ments. If an animal be bled on one occasion to a very large amount, or be bled repeatedly to smaller amounts, it will be found that the last part of the blood collected in the first case and the blood obtained in the later bleedings in the second case become progressively more watery. A dilution of the serum takes place, so that it contains less solids, and is increased in amount relatively to the blood corpuscles. The fluid which passes thus into the blood is certainly derived from the tissue spaces and not from the lymph, for the process goes on in exactly the same way when the lymph-flow into the blood is stopped by tying the thoracic duct. Starling's experiment of sending defibrinated blood through the vessels of a healthy limb, and through those of one rendered artificially oedematous, and the fact that in the latter case the blood becomes more watery, also proves that the blood-vessels can take up isotonic solutions and dropsical fluids from the tissue spaces. Bleeding, however, means a diminution of intracapillary pressure, and this diminution is evidently associated with the re-entry of fluid into the blood-vessels, to make up for the volume which has been lost, just as increase of capillary pressure was shown to be one of the causes of increased lymph-transudation. The question comes at once to be asked—Is absorp- tion dependent on the same physical process as transudation 1 There seems little doubt that it is so in the case where the capillary pressure is lowered, as by bleeding, and where the initial extra vascular pressure is not unduly high ; but the case seems to be diff'erent under normal conditions, and where, as in accumulations of dropsical fluid, the extravascular tension is raised. Here, so long as the extravascular pressure is raised only in the region of the capillaries, a backward filtration can occur; but when the extravascular pressure is increased round the veins to a sufficient extent, that is to say, to a point above the pressure in the veins, it results in collapse of the veins, a rise of capillary pressure, a diminished flow of blood through the part, and backward filtration ceases to be possible. In this case, and probably to some extent in the other cases also, absorption into the blood depends on the high osmotic pressure of the proteids of the blood-plasma. These are very indiffusible, and will attract water from the other side of a permeable mem- brane with a force proportionate to the differ- ence in their amount on either side of the membrane. We know that the capillaries of the limbs are almost impermeable to proteids, and their lymph contains very little proteid. The proteids left in solution inside the capil- laries will exert an osmotic attraction on the water of the lymph. A rise in capillary pres- sure will increase the amount of lymph, and will cause it to be more dilute, so that there will be an increase in the force tending towards absorption; and thus in situations such as the limbs, where the capillaries are impermeable, temporary rises and falls in pressure will cause so nice a balance between transudation and absorption that there will be no diff"erence in the lymph-flow from the limb. In situations where the capillaries are very permeable, as in the liver, only a slight increase in capillary pressure will be required to cause transuda- tion, and as the transuded lymph is so rich in proteid, there will be but little tendency to reabsorption.LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 96 It is practically impossible to say whether or how proteids are absorbed by the blood- vessels. The Functions of Lymph.—These are mani- fold, but may be grouped under the three heads of nutrition of tissues, metabolism, and defence. In nutrition the majority of the sub- stances required are taken up by the tissues from the blood by a process of diffusion, but this must take place by the intermediation of the lymph, as the fluid which bathes the tissues. The only difficulty is with regard to the supply of proteid to the tissues. The large molecules of these render their diffusion practically im- possible, and the only possible source is the proteid which has filtered through the vessel walls in the lymph. The two other views which have been put forward are, first, that the endothelial cells of the vessels can take up proteid from the blood and pass it on to the tissues as required; and, second, Hofmeister's view, that the leucocytes act as carriers of proteid to the tissues. The former view has been shown to be unlikely in the foregoing sections ; Hofmeister's view has been abandoned because his premises are now understood more fully and interpreted differently. In any case the tissue cells make use of the proteid in the lymph, the amount of which is propor- tioned to their general needs by the normal or acquired permeability of the capillary wall. What is not utilised passes into the lymphatic circulation. As regards metabolism., the more active an organ the greater the lymph-flow from it. The two typical experiments which show this are the increase of lymph-flow from an active muscle, and the increased flow and increase in concen- tration of the lymph from the liver after the intravenous injection of bile, which also increases the activity of the liver. Of coui'se, part of the increased lymph-flow in such cases is due to the increased blood-supply to active organs ; but it has often been suggested that the lymph-stream is iitilised to carry off" those metabolic products which would be too injurious if they were passed directly into the blood. These products are supposed to be conveyed to the lymph-glands, where they are rendered innocuous, and they are regarded as the agents which normally incite the leucocytes in the glands to proliferation. The leucocytes destroy, remove, or ingest the injurious substances, and the lymph is thus rendered fit to mingle with the blood-plasma. The increased flow of a more concentrated lymph is one of the first signs of defence against any irritant, and is probably intended for several different purposes—for the better nutrition of tissues whose vitality is lowered, in order that the bactericidal power of its constituents may be exercised ; to furnish nourishment to leuco- cytes ; and, in case the energies of the cells on tiae spot are overtaxed, to convey the irritant or its products to the nearest lymphatic gland, there to be dealt with. Lymphatic Vessels.—These are found in addition to a blood-vascular system in all verte- brate animals, while in those of the invertebrates, which possess a vascular system of any kind, the circulating fluid in most cases more nearly resembles lymph than blood. The addition of red corpuscles and of a blood-forming bone- marrow is a comparatively late event in the history of evolution. The lymphatic system is not a closed system, as the radicles of the lymph capillaries open almost everywhere into connective tissue spaces. In some of the intestinal villi the radicles terminate with closed ends, but the other mode is by far the more frequent. The lymph capil- laries are much like blood capillaries in structure, as they are simply tubes of endothelial cells, but are much more irregular in size and shape. The larger lymphatics iuto which they open have their walls strengthened by connective tissue to a slight extent, and the very largest contain some non-striped muscular fibres and resemble veins in structure. All lymphatics above the very smallest are provided with valves, so that the current through them, in normal conditions, must always be towards the thoracic duct. The serous cavities are structurally simply large connective tissue spaces, and communicate freely by means of stomata—openings round which modified endothelial cells are arranged— with the lymphatics which run in their walls. The course of the vessels will be found sufficiently described in the subjoined table of the glands. They always run near blood-vessels, but there are the widest individual differences in their course. Lymphatic Glands.—Structure.—The essen- tial facts in the structure of these bodies can be briefly stated as follows: — The afferent lymph-vessels open through a fairly strong capsule into a sinus which surrounds the gland everywhere except at the hilus. Connective tissue processes (trabeculae) from the capsule penetrate the gland at many points, and the external sinus is prolonged around these so as to form a series of paths into the substance of the gland. The trabeculae become thinner, and about the middle of the gland become continuous with the ordinary reticular tissue. The lymph- paths, thus set free, pass oft" at various angles, anastomose freely with one another, and finally unite in a number of efferent vessels which pass out at the hilus. Every lymph-path inside the capsule is beset with obstacles in the form of delicate strands of connective tissue which stretch across them in every possible direction, and any given particle can only pass from the afferent to the efferent vessels by following a very tortuous course. Moreover, the interstices of the reticular tissue of the rest of the glandLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 97 open freely into the lymph-paths, and this tissue is packed with leucocytes, mostly of the variety known as small lymphocytes. These leucocytes are almost all formed in the gland, and most freely in its outer subcapsular part, where in any gland which is at all active many germ- centres will be found—portions of the reticular tissue with a special arrangement of blood- vessels and connective tissue which facilitates the multiplication of leucocytes. In the deeper parts of the gland germ-centres are less numerous, but some leucocyte proliferation is found there also. By the constant pressure of new-formed cells from within, those in the neighbourhood of the lymph-sinus and lymph- paths are forced into these spaces, and are made to deal with all materials brought by the lymph to the gland. Many of them are carried off by the lymph-stream, which is always richer in cells on the proximal than on the distal side of a gland; but many remain in the lymph-paths, especially those which have ingested any material from the lymph, for if the material is nutrient they become large cells and can no longer pass through the obstacles, while if the material is injurious thej' die, and are generally ingested by other cells. It is obvious that the supply of leucocytes is greatest at the outer part of the gland in order to meet and deal with the lymph brought in by the afferent vessels. Functions. — A lymph-gland has, therefore, three main functions. It slows the lymph- stream by the extreme tortuosity and intricacy of its channels; it ensures that every particle of lymph shall be brought under the influence of living cells; and it furnishes leucocytes to the lymph, and through that to the blood. The time-honoured comparison to a filter is only partly accurate or apposite, because it leaves out of count the most important of the functions of the gland, the vital action of the cells which inhabit it. In all probability in health this action is largely a chemical one ; it seems prob- able that some metabolic products carried in the lymph are altered before that fluid is passed into the blood, and this can only be done by the leucocytes. In disease these cells have to deal with organisms and their products on the one hand, and with the cells of new growths on the other, but short of actual disease there are many conditions where their action is of im- portance. For example, where a haemorrhage has occurred in a limb, from a bruise let us say, the nearest lymphatic gland will be found to have some of the cells in its lymph-paths gorged with blood pigment or with the remains of broken-down red corpuscles. Again, the axillary glands of a man with tattooed arms, or the bronchial glands of a coal-miner, contain masses of pigment or of carbon, as the case may be, which have been prevented from passing into the blood. When a cancer occurs in the peri- VOL. VI pheral district of a lymph-gland, cells from it pass along the lymphatic vessels and are caught, first, in the external sinus, and beyond any doubt the first of such cells to arrive are in- variably destroyed by the leucocytes of the gland. It is only when the supply of cells is so great as to overcome resistance, or when the nutrition of the individual is so much impaired that he cannot keep his glands in fighting order, that the cancer gets a footing. It begins to grow, first, always in the external sinus, and spreads thence to the hilus. But there is another provision in the gland which comes to be of importance—the capsule. This is sufficiently strong and dense to confine the struggle to the limits of the gland, and it is only after the whole of the gland has become converted into cancerous tissue that the capsule gives way and allows a spread into surrounding- tissues. This encapsulation of the struggle is equally important in organismal infections. After the first gland has been vanquished, it is compelled to allow the passage of the invaders ; but as long as possible it insists that they shall pass along the proper paths, the lymph-vessels, in the course of which they will find fresh de- fences, and that they shall be kept out of the comparatively defenceless periglandular tissues. The lymph-giands thus concentrate organismal attacks on themselves, and often sacrifice them- selves for the whole organism. It must not be forgotten that they are not the first line of de- fence ; that role belongs to the skin and mucous membranes, and it is only when these are passed, sometimes without a visible lesion, that the glands come into play. The gland nearest to the primary seat of infection is always first affected, and thereafter infection spreads along definite paths. An enlarged or inflamed lymph- gland should always make us examine the skin or mucous membrane distal to it; primary affections of lymph-glands are of the rarest possible occurrence. If an infection once makes its way into the glandular chain and masters the glands, it passes from one to the other, quickly or slowly, affecting gland after gland, until ultimately the terminal lymph-channels are reached, and through them the blood be- comes infected. The physician or surgeon is apt to under- estimate the power of resistance of lymph- glands, because in the nature of things he is a witness only of their lost battles—those which they win remain unknown. That the victories are more frequent than we are in the habit of realising is well illustrated by some observations of Manfredi. He examined eighty-eight normal animals and the bodies of three men who had died of non-infectious diseases, and in seventy eight of the animals and all the men found that he could cultivate organisms from some one cr more of the lymph-glands, while the rest of the body, with the occasional exception of the liverLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 98 and spleen, was found to be sterile. Cultivation was successful most often from the subcuta- neous glands, then from the bronchial, and least frequently from the mesenteric. The relative infrequency of mesenteric infection is, of course, due to the fact that the lymphoid tissue in the wall of the intestine serves all the purposes, as far as defence goes, of a lymph-gland, and, as is well known, is practically never quite sterile, though it prevents organisms reaching the mesenteric glands. Manfredi also found that he could introduce small numbers of such organisms as B. prodigiosus and anthracis through the skin by producing slight irrita- tion, and that the nearest glands contained the organisms in a virulent state for four or five days, and in a less virulent condition for several days longer, while the rest of the animal remained sterile and unaffected. If an organism of such rapid growth as the anthrax bacillus can remain latent for so long, it is not to be wondered at that slow-growing organisms like the tubercle bacillus may be latent for vastly j longer periods, and that a forgotten gland in ' the neck may give rise at last to a miliary tuberculosis. In order to show the course pursued by in- fections from gland to gland I have compiled the following table, the materials for which were taken from Sappey, Quain, Testut, Cornet, and other authorities. This will enable the reader at a glance to see from what region any gland has become infected, and what will be the next series of glands to suffer :— Table of Lymphatic Glands, with the Source of their Afferent Vessels, and Destination OF their Efferent Vessels. Name and Situation of Glands. Keceive Afferent Vessels from :- Send Efferent Vessels to :— Parotid—superficial facial or anterior auricular : on and in the substance of the parotid gland, and in front of the external auditory meatus. Internal ■maxillari/—deep facial or buccinator : on the posterior part of the buccinator muscle and side wall of the pharynx. Occipital: on the origin of the tra- pezius. Mastoid, or posterior auricular : on the insertion of the sterno-mastoid behind the ear. ISubmaxiUary : on the submaxillary gland, and between it and the inner surface of the lower jaw. Superficial cervical or superficial jugular: on the upper lateral parts of the neck, in front of the sterno-mastoid, along the external jugular vein. Deep superior cervical or superior jugular : on the bifurcation of the carotid, along the internal jugular to the base of the skull. Deep inferim- cervical or inferior jugular and supraclavicular: the foi-mer on both sides of the large blood-vessels, the latter in the supraclavicular fossa, uniting to form one chain. Head and Neck The temples and surrounding region, the skin of the ear, and the eyelids. The temples, spheno-maxillary fossa, cavity of the orbit and nose, the upper jaw, palate, and pharynx, perhaps from the cranial cavity. The top and back of the head. Parts at the back of the ear. Face, lips, floor of the mouth, sali- vary glands, forehead, eyelids, bridge of the nose and alae nasi, gums and teeth of the lower jaw, tongue, efferent vessels of the paro- tid glands. The outer ear, skin of the front and back of the neck, efferent vessels of the occipital and mastoid glands, and partly those from the parotid and submaxillary glands Cranial cavity, part of the tongue, larynx, thyroid gland, lower part of the pharynx, deep muscles of the neck, efferent vessels of the deep facial, and some from the submaxillary glands. All lymphatic vessels of the head and neck, efferent vessels of the superficial cervical and deep su- perior cervical glands. Submaxillary and superficial cer- vical glands. Deep superior cervical glands. Superficial cervical glands. Superficial and deep cervical glands. Superficial cervical and deep su- perior cervical glands. Deep inferior cervical glands. Deep inferior cervical glands. Unite to form jugular lymphatic trunk, which on the left side runs into the thoracic duct; on the right side into the common lymphatic duct, the subclavian vein, or internal jugular vein. Other branches pass from and to the axillary and thoracic glands. By the help of some glands found in the middle of the neck they sometimes form a continuous chain with those of the other side.99 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF Table of Lymphatic Glands—continued ISIanie and Situation of Glands. Receive Afferent Vessels from :— Send Efferent Vessels to :— Cubital: occasionally at the bend of the elbow, more constantly above and in front of the internal condyle of the humerus. Axillary: on vessels and nerves of axilla, on lower edge of pectoralis major. Sternal: along internal mammary vessels. Intercostal : on either side of spinal column. Anterior mediastinal: in front of the aortic arch and innominate veins ; a lower set in front of the peri- cardium just above the diaphragm. Posterior mediastinal : along the thoracic aorta. Bronchial: small ones in the hilum of the lung on the branches of the bronchi ; larger on the lower part of the trachea, its bifurcation, and the large bronchi. Popliteal: superficial round the ter- mination of the short saphenous vein ; deep on the popliteal vessels. Superficial superior inguinal: ob- liquely in the line of Poupart. Superficial inferior inguinal; ver- tically along upper end of long saphenous vein. Beep inguinal: on inner side of femoral vein and in femoral ring. Arm Ulnar side of hand (radial side runs directly to axilla), efferent vessels from glands in the forearm when present. Arm, mamma, the side of the chest from the level of the umbilicus upwards. Thorax i Anterior walls of thorax and ab- domen, anterior part of diaphragm, inner part of mamma. Walls of thorax and costal pleurii Thymus, pericardium, heart, upper surface of anterior half of liver, and of diaphragm, efferent vessels from sternal glands. CEsophagus, hinder parts of peri- cardium and diaphragm. Lung, also trachea and posterior wall of heart, efferent vessels of posterior mediastinal glands. Leg Superficial, surface of the leg in the region of the short saphenous vein ; deep, deep lymph-vessels of the leg. Anterior abdominal wall, buttocks, perineum, anus, and external geni- tals (lower part of vagina). Surface of leg. Deep lymphatics of leg, some of efferent vessels of superficial in- guinal glands. Axillary glands. Axillary lymphatic trunk, opening into thoracic duct or right lym- phatic trunk, or into subclavian vein. These glands are contin- uous with the deep inferior cervical. Anterior mediastinal glands, or lymphatic trunks. Thoracic duct, or right lymphatic duct. Right and left lymphatic trunks. Bronchial glands or thoracic duct. Left, with or without efferent ves- sels of sternal and mediastinal glands to thoracic duct; right form broncho-mediastinal trunk, which receives the efferent ves- sels of the remaining glands of the right side of the thorax. Inguinal glands. Deep inguinal glands, or external iliac glands. Deep inguinal glands, or external iliac glands. Pass through femoral ring to ex ternal iliac glands. External iliac : on the external iliac vessels. Internal iliac: along internal iliac vessels. Sacral: in hollow of sacrum. Lateral lumbar : on either side in the intervals between the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae. Median lumbar : along the trunk and about the bifurcation of the aorta. Mesenteric: between the layers of the mesentery, and round the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery. CkHoc : surround the cceliac axis and the aorta above the superior mesen- teric artery. Abdomen Abdominal wall, efferent vessels from inguinal glands. Pelvic viscera and parietes, vagina, cervix, and lower part of uterus. Pelvic viscera and parietes, rectum. Posterior part of abdominal wall. Sigmoid flexure, kidneys, supra- renals, testicles, ovaries, tubes, and upper part of uterus, posterior part of diaphragm, efferent vessels from iliac and sacral glands, and some from lateral lumbar glands. Lacteals of small intestine, and colon down to the sigmoid flexure. Stomach, upper half of duodenum, pancreas, spleen, greater part of the liver. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands. Median lumbar glands and lumbar lymphatic trunks, which unite to form commencement of tho- racic duct. Lumbar lymphatic trunks. Join efferent vessels of cceliac glands to form intestinal lym- phatic trunk, opening into tho- racic duct. Intestinal lymphatic trunk.100 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF A few clinical examples may be cited to illustrate those anatomical facts. Thus, in children, enlargement of the occipital glands should always indicate examination of the scalp for suppurative processes and for pediculi; enlargement of the internal maxillary glands, almost invariably associated with that of the deep superior cervical, is a strong presumption in favour of the presence of adenoids. Affection of the axillary glands, in a woman, should make us look at the mamma,—of the inferior superficial inguinal, should suggest some lesion of the foot or toes,—of the superficial superior inguinal, should make us suspect an affection of the genitals or anus. Such examples might, of course, be multiplied indefinitely. Lymphatic glands are extremely variable in number and size in individuals in any given situation, but it is not so commonly recognised that fresh glands may be formed on com- paratively slight stimulus, and may disappear when the stimulus is withdrawn. The best known example of this is the increase in the glands of the axilla during lactation. When the process terminates, many of the glands become involuted and transformed into fat; but should a carcinoma appear later in the breast, the glands are again developed. Moreover, glands which have been removed are very readily replaced, and the newly-formed glands are not distinguishable from the original ones after some time. This depends upon the fact that these glands, though complicated in appear- ance, are really very simple in structure, and require nothing for their development or re- formation which is not present in any loose connective tissue. The necessary elements are lymphatic vessels and the connective tissue surrounding them, and blood-vessels. The leucocytes are brought both by the lymph- vessels and the blood, and entangled in the meshes of the connective tissue. Lymph-glands taken from the same situation in diff"erent normal individuals will be found also to vary immensely in activity. This can be measured by the number of germ-centres in the cortex, and by the number of mitotic figures in the leucocytes of these germ-centres. The entire system of lymphatic glands, there- fore, forms an organ of defence which varies in power immensely according to the needs and constitution of the individual. It is interesting to note that in animals the development of the system varies much according to the race and habits of the animal. The glands are few and small in the rodents, more numerous in the carnivores, still better developed in the ungulates, and best of all in man. The glands in different regions of the body are not all equally impoi'tant in a morphological sense. Those which I have elsewhere called " primary" lymph-glands are those which are the first to be developed in all mammals, and wliich are possessed by all mammals which I have examined. They are the glands surrounding the large vessels of the neck, those of the axilla, groin, and those of the root of the mesentery. The " secondary " glands are those at the bend of the elbow, in the pop- liteal space, in the mesentery, round the aorta and iliac arteries, etc. These are developed in some animals in foetal life, in others not till after birth, and sometimes imperfectly even in the adult. The "tertiary" glands in man in- clude those which are not constantly present, as, for instance, the prelaryngeal glands, and which lie off the main course of the lymph- stream, and those which are formed in adult life on some special occasion, as during the ex- ceptional activity of some organ, or in patho- logical conditions. The "primary" glands all lie at points towards which numbers of lymph- vessels converge, and near large arteries. The "secondary" glands are generally interposed in the course of main channels or at secondary junctions, while the "tertiary" ones either lie off the main stream altogether, or are used to reinforce pre-existing ones. They are probably sometimes developed from the small collections of lymphoid tissue, which may be found here and there on the course of the lymphatics, by a process identical with that passed through in foetal life. Thoracic Duct.—As has been already indi- cated in the table given above, there is a certain amount of variation in the vessels which flow into the duct, and there is a possibility of variations also in the place into which the duct opens. This is usually the outer side of the left internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by its junction with the subclavian vein ; but it may be into either of these veins at other spots or into other veins low down in the neck, by one or several openings. The only practical importance of this point is that the surgeon when operating in this neighbourhood should be on his guard against finding the duct in some unexpected situation. But little is known of the affection of the duct by disease. An eruption of tubercles in its walls has been found to be followed, as might be expected, by miliary tuberculosis, and there are several cases on record where cancer of various abdominal organs has caused a secondary affection of the duct which has occluded it. I saw recently a case of cancer of the pancreas where this had taken place, and where a true chylous ascites had occurred from the resulting dilatation and rupture of lacteals. If the ol)struction takes place in the thorax, one or lioth pleural cavities may be filled with chylous fluid ; but, as a general rule, cancer of the duct is not followed by chylous extravasations because the process of blocking is usually a very gradual one, and there is time for an anastomotic cii'culation to foi-m, and for the right lymphatic duct, for instance, to assume the functions of the thoracicLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 101 duct. The intercommunication of lymphatic vessels is always so free that there is usually little difficulty about this. Diseases of Lymphatic Vessels.—Those of importance are inflammation, acute and chronic, and dilatation, congenital and acquired. Acute Lymphangitis. — This, practically in- variably, is the result of a wound or other breach of surface which has become septic, or of some other source of septicity. Either the organisms themselves, or their toxins, are carried along the vessels, and give rise to inflam- mation in their train, the degree and exact nature of which differ with the organism present. As a rule, the process stops at the first gland above the lesion, which usually becomes enlarged and tender; but it may pass from gland to gland, and give rise ultimately to a general septicsemia. Dissecting-room and post-mortem wounds of the hand give an opportunity of examining such cases. From the wound red lines, often hard and raised, extend either to the cubital glands or sometimes to the axilla, when the main vessels alone are affected; the arm is painful, tender, and may be oedematous, and the patient is feverish. The walls of the vessels are inflamed, and there may be some spread of the inflammation into the tissues around. The lymph in the vessels is coagulated. Sometimes the smaller channels are also affected, and the inflammation in the skin then becomes so widespread that it is difficult to distinguish it from a cellulitis, while if the deeper vessels alone are affected, the limb may become brawny and oedematous without the development of the characteristic superficial lines. If the invading organisms are pus-producers, foci of suppuration may form in the course of the vessels ; or when the acute symptoms have passed off, the throm- bosis of the proximal vessels may give rise to a long-standing oedema of the limb. In treatment the first thing to be done is to stop the supply of organisms or toxins from the wound or other source of infection ; it is to be rendered aseptic by whatever means are necessary in the individual case. The affected limb is to be kept at rest, and pain relieved by evaporating lotions, lead and opium fomentations, bella- donna, etc. Abscesses must be opened and, if there is any threatening of septicfemia, the patient's strength supported by all possible means. Where the condition results in solid oedema, massage and elastic pressure should be tried; but the affection is apt to be tedious, for it usually takes some time for new lymph- channels to be formed in place of those which have become so completely occluded. Chronic Lymphangitis.—This may be a sequel of the acute condition, or may occur inde- pendently as a result of infection with the more slowly growing organisms. A good example of this is the cord-like thickening of the lymphatics of the penis which sometimes follows the primary sore of syphilis, and which, as a rule, subsides in due course. Tubercle may also occasionally give rise to a similar condition, which shows itself rather by the formation of tubercular foci in the course of the lymphatic. Dilatation of Lymphatics.—This term may be used for the whole group of cases which are variously known as lymphangiectasis, lymph- angioma, lymphatic nfevus, and lymphatic varix, according to the individual peculiarities of the case. In a tissue which consists of such simple elements as the lymphatics there is no room for any great difference in appearance, except as far as diff'erent parts of the body are affected, and the congenital forms of the condition are practically identical with the acquired. The enlargement of the tongue, known as macroglossia, for instance, may be congenital, or may be the result of blocking of the lymphatics later in life as a result of trauma or inflammation. The similar condition of the lips, macrocheilia, and of the cheek, macromelia, is practically always congenital. Lymphangiectasis or lymphangioma is the name given to a dilatation of lymph-vessels which most usually occurs in the skin ; the former name is applied if we regard the condition as a dilatation of pre-existing vessels, the latter if they are supposed to be a new formation. Any part of the skin may be affected, but most usually the inner side of the thigh, and with relative frequency the prepuce, abdomen, the elbows, and ankles. The skin at first is ir- regularly elevated, with an appearance, minus the colour, like the rind of an orange; later, when vesicles have formed, it is compared by Walker to a white raspberry cut open and laid on the skin. There may be one or several patches, and the larger lymphatic trunks may also be varicose, showing either cylindrical, beaded and semi-transparent enlargements, or ampullae along their course. There may be some oedema. The vesicles are deep and have thick walls, and when pricked or ruptured discharge lymph and go on discharging it. Electrolysis of the vesicles, repeated if necessary, will sometimes cure the condition, or the patch may require excision. This should go wide of the disease, as otherwise the tendency to recur is great. Where larger vessels are varicose pressure may be applied, or an attempt made to ligature the vessel above and below the affected part. Elephantiasis, lymph-scrotum, inguinal lymph- varix, are similar conditions due to the blocking of the thoracic duct by filariae or by the inflam- matory products which are the result of their former presence there (see " Filariasis," vol. iii. p. 273). Diseases of Lymphatic Glands Those of most importance are—acute and chronic inflammation (lymphadenitis), enlarge-LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 102 ment in the course of general infective diseases, enlargement secondary to cancer and sarcoma, and the large and somewhat indefinite group of chronic enlargements due to leucocytha^mia, tubercle, lymphadenoma and lymphosarcoma. As will be seen latei', the want of agreement as to nomenclature gives rise to much overlapping, in the chronic enlargements in particular. Acute Lymphadenitis.—The pathology of this condition lias been discussed in the foregoing general section, and in the section on lymph- angitis. The acute condition is always the result of absorption of irritating material from the periphery', and is always associated with more or less lymphangitis, though sometimes this is not very evident, and the symptoms, etc. are similar. It is to be remembered that spread- ing gangrene and some forms of cellulitis do not give rise to adenitis, possibly because they cause an early thrombosis of lymph-vessels, so that their products do not reach the glands. It is often discussed whether "strain" can cause adenitis. It is a favourite explanation of enlargement and tenderness of inguinal glands among parents and guardians who object to boys playing football; but one can generally find some septic scratch about the knee or else- where which is responsible for the mischief. Of course, however, there can be no doubt that trauma may in some regions interfere with the flow of lymph, and cause enlargement and tenderness of the glands behind. One point of some importance is that while the leucocytes of the gland, lymphocytes and hyaline cells, are equal to any ordinary demands upon them, any serious inflammatory reaction is assisted by the emigration of leucocytes from the blood-vessels of the gland, and these are mainly polymorphonuclear cells. Supjjuration is often relatively long delayed, and the giving way of the capsule and the occurrence of a considerable amount of periadenitis usually precedes the formation of an abscess with recognisable fluctuation. The first essential in the treatment of acute adenitis is to remove the cause, in order to stop the supply of infective material and give the glands a chance of recovering themselves, and thereafter to use the same kind of treatment as for lymphangitis. Chronic Lymphadenitis.—When glands have been acutely inflamed they often remain en- larged and hard for some time. This is usually the result of periadenitis and sometimes of the formation of fibrous tissue in the gland, and the two together may often interfere with the further usefulness of the gland. But where the source of irritation has not been sufliciently virulent to cause an acute inflammation, but has acted for a long time, there may be a primary chronic enlargement, which may be either a slight inflammation or simply a hyper- trophy and hyperplasia of the gland according to the amount and character of the irritation. A familiar example of this is the enlargement of a gland or glands which is often associated with carious teeth, with the presence of a slight pharyngeal catarrh, or with adenoids. In all these cases the application of the rule, " remove the peripheral irritation," is often followed by the disappearance of the enlarged gland. When this effect does not follow, one should always suspect that the primary break of surface has given entrance to tubercle bacilli, and the progress of the case should be carefully watched. The local application of iodine in some form is often useful to remove the last traces of thickening; one of the fluid preparations of iodine or the ointments of iodide of potassium or mercury may be used. The most important group of chronic local inflammations of glands is that due to tubercle. While every gland in the body may be infected with tubercle bacilli, the condition occurs with immensely greatest frequency in the groups of glands associated with the alimentary and respiratory tracts, and most often of all in the glands connected with the regions where these tracts have their common origin, the buccal, nasal, and pharyngeal cavities. Tubercle of the bronchial and mediastinal glands on the one hand, and of the abdominal glands on the other, need not be here discussed, as they seldom come before the practitioner unaccom- panied by serious disease of the organs with which they are connected. Generalised tuber- culosis of glands, also, will be discussed in connection with lymphadenoma. It is tubercle of the glands of the neck, using that regional term in its widest sense, which is the most common form, and it has always been preceded by the presence of tubercle bacilli in the cavities above mentioned, which have made their way into lymph-vessels throvigh some breach of surface or inflamed tissue. Adenoids, inflamed tonsils, carious teeth, stomatitis or pharyngitis of any kind, middle-ear disease, and so on, may give the bacilli a chance of entry, and there results a slow, painless enlargement of first one gland, then another, until, if the process be uninter- rupted, the whole of the glands above the clavicle may be affected in series. The glands may remain discrete for a long time; but sooner or later periadenitis occurs, and they become matted together, and usually in the long run suppuration takes place in some of them, from softening and from the penetration of other organisms to the caseated masses. The skin is thinned above these foci, the abscesses burst, spongy, oozing cicatrices may remain for years, and in the best possible result heal at last, with the production of great disfigurement. Most of these cases ultimately die of tubercular disease in other organs, generally in the lungs. It is only rarely that these cases present anyLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 103 difficulty in diagnosis. The condition occurs mainly in children, in whom syphilis and cancer are not likely to occur. Simple chronic en- largement usually remains limited to the group of glands first affected, is seldom very great, and yields to the removal of the exciting cause. The safest rule is, when in doubt, to consider the glands tubercular and to enjoin an out-of- door life, careful feeding, and the other elements of anti-tubercular hygiene. A stay at the sea- side is often very useful in early cases. Of other measures, the first in importance and in time should be a careful examination of the mouth and pharynx, and the radical removal of any source of mischief there. Cod-liver oil and arsenic both have a good effect, mainly, I think, by diminishing periadenitis, and these may be assisted by iodine or other absorbent remedy externally. Under this regimen a large number of cases will show great improvement, and the tubercles ultimately become obsolete; but it can only be carried out properly in the case of children of people in good circumstances, and a large proportion of cases will always require surgical interference. This proportion is made up of cases where, in spite of general treatment, the disease continues to progress, either by the involvement of fresh glands or by an increase of periadenitis, or the threatening of suppuration, and of cases seen for the first time where the mass is too large to give any hope of healing, or where suppuration has occurred or is imminent. When surgical inter- ference is undertaken it should, if possible, be with the knife, not with the spoon, and should be as thorough as possible. Not a single affected or possibly-affected gland should be left, unless insuperable difficulties present them- selves. Half-hearted operations are worse than useless, and it is they which are followed by miliary tuberculosis and which threatened at one time to bring operative interference in these cases into disrepute. Chronic glandular enlargements due to syphilis are of three kinds—the bubo following on the primary chancre; the general slight indolent enlargement of the second stage; and third, gummatous deposit in glands, or the enlargement of glands from absorption from a breaking-down gumma. (See "Syphilis.") Enlargements in General Diseases. — In the majority of cases this is due to an acute lymph- adenitis from absorption. The inflamed pharynx, etc., in scarlatina, diphtheria, measles, and rotheln, causes enlargement of the associated glands by the absorption either of the causal organisms, of their toxins, or of associated organisms such as the pus-producers. Enlarge- ment in erysipelas, glanders, plague, etc., takes place on the same lines, with this important difference in the case of plague, that it is quite exceptional that one is able to locate the original point of inoculation. The general lymphatic enlargement which occurs in the secondary stage of syphilis and in some cases of anthrax is probably due to a different cause: the poison is not brought to the glands by the lymph, but by the blood, and the enlargement represents a more or less successful attempt on the part of the glands to protect themselves from infection. The enlargement due to leucocythsemia has already been discussed. (See " Leucocythsemia," vol. V.) In regard to the secondary growths due to malignant disease, there are one or two points of importance. In the first place the old dictum that cancer spreads by the lymphatics, and sar- coma by the blood-vessels, is only partly true. Cancer spreads by the blood-vessels in many cases, and in many cases sarcoma spreads by the lymphatics. Metastatic cancerous growths —from the mamma, for instance—do not in all cases mean that the whole lymphatic chain through the axilla to the thoracic duct has been affected, though they may have that meaning. They may mean also that the cancer has made its way into veins either in or near the original growth, or a secondary lym- phatic one, and that cancerous emboli have been caught and have found an opportunity of growth in internal organs or elsewhere. Similarly, some sarcomata always give rise to infection of the glands to which the organ they affect is related. Sarcomata arising in the tonsil, for instance, cause secondary growths in the related glands, even when they are not lymphosarcomata in the histological sense. The practical point arising out of this is that the surgeon in removing sarcomata should be as anxious to discover and remove affected glands as when he is dealing with a carcinoma. The next part to be remembered in this connection is that, while it is usually easy to recognise glands which are wholly cancerous or sarco- matous, it is quite impossible by naked-eye examination to determine whether slightly in- fected glands are diseased or not ] and while the removal of the primary focus, and the con- sequent stoppage of the supply of fresh infective material, may enable the gland to overcome the cancer cells present in it, it may not do so. It is wiser, therefore, to remove too much than too little. Lymphatic oedema may occur from the obliteration of lymph-vessels, but usually disappears in time, and, as I have already mentioned, lymph-vessels and glands are easily regenerated. Lymphadenoma.—The question of the real nature of this disease and its relation to leuco- cythsemia on one side, generalised glandular tuberculosis on another, and lymphosarcoma on the third, is one of the most difficult problems in medicine, and one whose solution we are as yet very far from having attained. The number of names proposed and used for the104 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF condition give an index of the difficulty of under- standing it. Among them are adenia, lymph- adenia, lymphogenic diathesis, lymphadenosis, lymphoma, lymphomatosis, pseudo-leukfemia, lymphosarcoma, and the non-committal Hodg- kin's disease, after the physician who first described it. The clinical features of the disease are well enough known, but its cause is quite unknown; and while the naked-eye morbid appearances have been often described, there is practically no agreement as to the nature and explanation of the histological changes involved. But the greatest difficulty is in regard to the diagnosis not only intra vitam, but post-mortem also, from the three conditions named above. For example, one excellent observer describes fully a case which he regards as a lymphosarcoma — in his eyes the most active form of lymphadenoma—which appeared to me, from his description, to have been possibly a case of myelaemia (spleno- medullary leucocythaemia) in which, as a result of secondary infection, the leucocytes had greatly decreased in number, and become altered in their relative proportions. And yet this ob- server uses this very doubtful case as a peg upon which to hang a complete classification of all the diseases showing chronic enlargement of lymphatic glands. Again, there seems no doubt that two enlarged glands may show identical histological appearances, and yet the one may contain tubercle bacilli and be caused by their action, and the other be as certainly not tubercular. Further, some of the more actively growing lymphadenomata have a struc- ture indistinguishable, apparently, from that of the less active sarcomata. In view of these facts, it is hardly to be wondered at that it is sometimes impossible, or next to impossible, during life to make an accurate diagnosis of the pathological condition which is present. This chaos will never be reduced to order luitil there is a much more general appreciation in the profession of the importance of blood ex- aminations, and of the methods of making them, for in most of these cases the clinical diagnosis turns ultimately upon the condition of the blood, and it is precisely in this particular that many of the clinical records are lamentably deficient. It is very difficult to give a description of the clinical features of lymphadenoma, because the classical accounts were penned at a time before the difficulties of the pathological diagnosis were fully appreciated, and it is difficult to make up one's mind as to which are the essential features of the disease, and which the accidental. It is a disease mainly of the earlier half of life, and attacks males more frequently than females. No definite predisposing cause is known, though all the conditions which make for bad health have been accused in turn. The actual cause is also unknown, but the disease seems often to be preceded by some irritation in the skin or mucous membranes near the glands first affected. The disease first shows itself by an enlargement, slow, painless, non-suppurating and non-caseat- ing, of the lymph-glands of one region, almost always the cervical to begin with. This pro- gresses until it has reached the supraclavicular glands, and thence the process passes to the axillary glands of the same side and the cervical glands of the other side by the chain of vessels and glands which I have described in the fore- going table. Gowers believes that the next glands to be affected are the inguinal, then the retroperitoneal, bronchial, mediastinal, and mes- enteric ; and it is certainly true that the inguinal glands are the next which one can feel to be en- larged, but it is in direct contradiction to all we know of lymphatic spread to suppose that such a process could jump from the cervical glands to the inguinal, without affecting those between ; and everyone knows how difficult, nay, how im- possible, it is to be sure clinically of slight enlargements of the thoracic and abdominal glands, and one is often surprised—in leucocy- thaemia, for instance—to find, post-mortem, great enlargement of these glands which one had, at the most, suspected during life. Probably the process extends from the cervical glands to the mediastinal, thence to the bronchial on one hand, and on the other to the retroperitoneal, from which it passes again dichotomously to the mesenteric and iliac, and so to the in- guinal. During this time the patient may remain in fair health, but towards the end of it he will begin to feel weak, to emaciate, to show ir- regular rises of temperature or a more con- tinuous pyrexia. He will suffer fi-om dyspepsia, vomiting, and diarrhoea; from breathlessness, a quick, feeble pulse, and a steadily advancing anaimia, with all the symptoms consequent thereon. The glands go on enlarging, and give rise by their pressure on important organs or tissues to various symptoms, which naturally differ in individual cases, and enlargement of the organs themselves commences, in particular of the spleen and liver, and often of the tonsils, thymus, ovaries, testicles—of any organ, in fact, which can be made to contain lymphoid tissue. Complications of various kinds, usually due to intercurrent organismal infection, may occur, such as pneimionia, erysipelas, empyema, and may carry the patient off; but the natural ending of the disease is a steadily advancing cachexia and anaemia. The enlargement of glands usually leaves them discrete ; but sometimes, especially among those first affected, they may grow into one mass, or show some periadenitis, and, as a result of infection, localised suppuration or necrosis may occur. General suppuration or caseation stamps the condition as tubercular. Glands may appear in unusual places—theLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 105 " tertiary " glands which I have described—and there may be deposits in the skin. The condition of the blood varies greatly in the course of the disease. At first it is practi- cally normal; later, when the glandular en- largement is well marked and anfemia has begun to show itself in the aspect of the patient, the red corpuscles diminish in number and often in size also, the hsemoglobin diminishes either in proportion to the loss of red corpuscles or to a greater extent, blood-plates are increased, while the leucocytes usually remain unchanged —in short, the blood presents the characters of a secondary anaemia. This may go on to an extreme degree. I saw a case some time ago where the red corpuscles shortly before death fell to 1,400,000, with marked poikilocytosis; but this is unusual. It must not be forgotten, how- ever, that even when the disease is well advanced the corpuscles may be well above the normal. I have a case under observation at present where they are generally about 5,300,000, and many such counts have been reported. In my case, however, the enlarged mediastinal glands are evidently pressing upon the large intra- thoracic veins, so that there is a certain amount of cyanosis ; and I have no doubt that the high count of red corpuscles is due to that factor, for the individual corpuscles are small and pale, and the blood otherwise is obviously ansemic in character. Possibly this may explain many of the high counts. The leucocytes in the anaemic stage may remain quite normal in number and in their relative proportions, or there may be a slight increase in the number of lymphocytes, and occasionally a very few myelocytes may appear, as in other cachectic conditions. A leucocytosis may occur at any stage, but is always caused by the same conditions which would cause leucocytosis in persons who are not the subjects of this disease, and it does not seem to have any necessary connection with it. When it does occur, the increase is always due to the polymorphonuclear cells, while the lymphocytes are diminished. The enlargement of the spleen is rarely very great, but in some cases it becomes extreme, and cases are recorded where the resemblance to splenic anaemia is remarkable. The pressure-symptoms which may be caused are as numerous as the organs and tissues which may be pressed upon, and it would serve no purpose to enumerate them. It is extraordinary, however, how great the enlargement of glands may often be without notable pressure-effects, so long as it remains confined to the external glands. The abdominal glands, and still more the tho- racic glands, are rarely much enlarged without the occurrence of pressure on veins, nerves, or other structures. In that variety of the disease —if it is a variety and not a separate entity— where the growth spreads beyond the capsule of the gland and invades neighbouring tissues. the pressure-eti'ects are early and prominent. It is these cases where, for instance, extension into the spinal canal from the abdominal glands may take place, and paraplegia from pressure be produced. Pathology.—-Much of the post-mortem appear- ances may be inferred from what has been already said. It only remains to describe the minute structure of the enlarged glands and lymphoid deposits. Usually there are said to be two varieties of lymphadenoma, the soft and the hard. In both, the typical structure of the lymph-gland, the lymph-paths and germ-centres, for instance, are lost or, at least, hidden from view. The soft variety is described as consisting of lymphocytes, or cells which look like them, embedded in a delicate reticular tissue; the hard, as containing much fibrous tissue and relatively few cells. Some cases are midway between the two, and one might surmise that possibly the soft variety may sometimes pass into the hard one. One sometimes finds cases where large cells with convoluted nuclei, not unlike the giant cells of bone-marrow, and spindle cells are present. As far as my ex- perience goes, these are commoner in the harder glands. Generally speaking, the glands are enclosed by a strong capsule ; but some- times, in cases which are not histologically difFerentiable, the growth perforates this. Whether these cases are lymphadenomata which have taken on a specially active growth, or are true sarcomata, our present knowledge does not enable us to say. The lymphoid deposits in the liver, kidney, etc., resemble the glands of the soft variety. In the spleen there may be isolated lymphoid growths, possibly springing from the Malpighian bodies, or a general hypertrophy. Our knowledge of the state of the bone-marrow is not satisfactory. Isolated lymphoid deposits and a general lymphoid condition have been described ; but in all the cases which I have seen recorded the description is wanting in exactness, and probably the appearances due to the disease itself (if there are any) are complicated or obscured by the changes due to the anaemia or to the frequent terminal leucocytosis. The anaemia is probably due to several causes—to the gastro- intestinal disturbances, to the affection of the mesenteric glands, and, if the disease is infective, to some action of the infective cause. Why, with all the over-production of lymphocytes which takes place, in the soft variety at least, there is not an excess of them in the blood, we do not know. For some reason the newly- formed cells do not seem to leave the glands. This consideration leads to a possible view of the cause of the disease—that it is due to some unknown, slowly-growing organism, or its pro- ducts. This is strengthened by the fact that tubercle may produce a generalised enlargementLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 106 of glands which is clinically indistinguishable from lymphadenoma; and while, as a general rule, these tubercular glands caseate, they are sometimes found to be identical in structure with those of lymphadenoma, and yet to produce tubercle on inoculation. Other points in favour of this view are the spread of the disease from one point, gland by gland, and that the point of onset is almost always the cervical group, which is more exposed to in- fection than any other. The histological likeness between the soft variety of lymphadenoma and the glandular enlargement of lymphatic leucocythsemia on the one hand, and between the form with large cells and lymphosarcoma on the other, make it difficult to accept this view right away ; but it seems likely that further work will clear away this difficulty, for it is probable that some chronic lymphatic leucocythaemias have been described as lymphadenoma and that we may ultimately be able clinically to differentiate the lymphosarcomata. I have myself seen two cases which were diagnosed as lymphadenoma, and would have been described as that disease had I not pointed out that they wei'e lymphatic leucocythaemias, and 1 have no doubt that the error has frequently been made. To say, as many foreign observers do, that lymphadenoma, lymphaimia, lymphosarcoma, and all other chronic glandular enlargements not obviously due to tubercle, etc., are different manifestations of the same disease, seems to me to be simply shirking the difficulty, and to be quite un- justified by tlie facts. There are three or four cases on record where leucocythsemia has de- veloped out of lymphadenoma; but some of them are not absolutely free from suspicion, and in tlie others the connection may have been accidental. Course and Prognosis.—The disease usually lasts for one or more years, but may terminate in a few weeks or months in exceptional cases. The prognosis, when the condition is once fully developed, is always bad; and the older the patient and the more rapid the course of the disease, the worse is the outlook. Diagnosis.—The difficulties have already been referred to. From leucocythaemia, the diagnosis rests entirely on the examination of the blood ; difficulty, possibly unsurmountable for the time, will occur in those cases of leucocythsemia where the blood is first examined at a time when the leucocytes have fallen to normal or near it as a result of intercurrent infection or other cause. From generalised tubercular en- largement, the only way is to excise one of the glands, examine it microscopically, and if that leaves the matter in doubt, make an experimental inoculation. From local glandular overgrowth, the diagnosis cannot be made in the early stage. Where such a condition persists, in spite of treatment, for any length of time, the wisest plan is to treat it as tubercle and remove the mass. From lymphosarcoma the diagnosis cannot be made. Treatment.—When a case is seen early, before the glandular enlargement has passed beyond one group, arsenic should at once be given in gradually increased doses up to the largest amount that can be borne, preferably by the mouth, but hypodermically if there is much gastric disturbance. If the glands disappear, as they sometimes do, the case should still be watched, as they are very apt to reappear. Should the enlargement increase or progress, the afltected glands should be excised as com- pletely as possible, for even if they cannot all be removed, arsenic may be able to complete what has been begun by the knife. Where there is evidence that the thoracic or abdominal glands are already much affected, it is probably useless to operate on the external ones, as they will recur, and in any case it is not their enlargement which causes death. No other specific or local treatment has been found of much iise; but the patient's health should, of course, be kept in the best possible condition, as the disease is one in which the resisting power is greatly diminished. Good food, general tonics, cod-liver oil, fresh air, freedom from fatigue and worry, all have their importance. Status Lymphaticus or Lymphatism.—This is a very curious condition which has been com- paratively little studied in this country, though it is presumably common enough. General attention was drawn to it in Germany some years ago by the sudden death of a son of Pro- fessor Langhans of Berlin soon after antitoxin had been injected in order to protect the child from diphtheria. On examination the boy was found to have been the subject of this condition. Unfortunately, the condition is not so well defined that it can be easily or frequently diagnosed during life, and it is only, as a rule, after the sudden death of its victims that it is discovered. The essence of the disease is an enlargement or hyperplasia of the lymphatic apparatus, either throughout the body, or more usually of the internal parts of it. It occurs generally in children, but sometimes in ado- lescents or young adults, and in the former is usually, though not invariably, associated with rickets; and, as some observers maintain, also with a hypoplasia of the heart and arterial system. It is accompanied by a lessening of the powers of resistance, and is apt to cause sudden death from cardiac failure as a result of causes which are quite inadequate and sometimes trivial. For example, deaths have occurred during bathing, during anaesthesia, and without apparent cause during convalescence from the infectious fevers. The disease seems, moreover, to be of special importance in relation to diplitheria, possibly from tlie specially depres- sant character of that disease, and has beenLYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF 107 found to account for many cases of sudden death in slight diphtheria, where there was no other evident cause of death and where the diphtheria did not seem likely to be so soon fatal. The children who are the subjects of this con- dition are usually anxious-looking and pasty- faced ; they are slightly ansemic, often rickety, have a special tendency to spasm of the glottis, have usually enlarged tonsils and adenoids, and enlargement of the glands associated with these. The thyroid may be slightly enlarged, and the spleen is often palpable ; while enlarged mesenteric glands may be felt, and dulness over the sternum may indicate enlargement of the mediastinal glands. It is rather unusual to have much enlargement of the superficial cervical, axillary, or inguinal glands. But little is known as to the condition of the blood, but in some case a persistent lymphocytosis is found, greater in amount than it shovild have been at the person's age. When the condition occurs in older persons they are usually undergrown and infantile in appearance, and sexual development is late or imperfect. Post-mortem. — Apart from what is stated above, the striking feature in most cases is the enlargement of all the lymphoid tissue in the wall of the alimentary canal, and of all the glands associated with it and its ofF-shoots. Thus the bronchial and mediastinal glands are enlarged, and the thymus persistent and large also. The increase in size in the spleen is usually due largely to increase in size in the Malpighian bodies. The yellow marrow is re- placed by red marrow, but this is possibly due to the chronic anfemia which is present. We have no knowledge of the ultimate cause of the condition. As to treatment, for the reason already given, practically nothing can be said. If the condition is found to be due to rickets, that of course suggests both prevention and treatment; and children presenting the clinical appearances detailed above should obviously be specially protected from the infectious fevers, and from diphtheria in particular. " Thymus-Tod."—The cases described under this name are probably to be regarded as due to a form of lymphatism in which the enlarge- ment of the thymus, common in that disease, is specially prominent, and causes death either by direct pressure on the trachea, by pressure on the vagus so as to cause spasm of the glottis, or, more doubtfully, by pressure on the great vessels or on the heart itself. Kohn, however, has recently reported a case where a very large thymus pressed directly upon the aorta. The heart was dilated and hypertrophied, and the aorta much dilated up to the point where the thymus pressed upon it. Death, when its occurrence has been watched in these cases (it is not uncommon to find the children dead in bed), is brought about not usually by cardiac paralysis, the typical way in lymphatism, but by the sudden onset of inspiratory dyspnoja, with stridor, and the rapid development of cyanosis. Post-mortem, the enlargement of the thymus is the only cause for this which can be found, and while it is often associated with a general lymphatism, this is not always the case, or at least the lymphatism is proportion- ally less well marked than the thymus enlarge- ment. Here, as the fatal issue is not quite so sudden, rather more is to be hoped from treat- ment. A certain nimiber of cases have been saved by tracheotomy and the passage of a long tube down the trachea, and thereafter by pulling up the large thymus and stitching it to the cervical fascia. Another variety of cases has been described in adolescents, where deep coma comes on suddenly, and in twelve to eighteen hours ends in death. Convulsions, glottic spasm, and vomiting may occur. After death, enlargement of the thymus and hypoplasia of the whole of the rest of the lymphatic apparatus and of the vascular system was found, with cerebral ojdema, which was the immediate cause of death. The relationship between the different factors is not very clear in these cases. Lymphodermia perniciosa.—This is a very rare condition, first described by Kaposi, and consists in the appearance of a scaly, weeping, and intensely itchy eczema, diffuse or localised, which is followed by a diffuse doughy swelling of the affected parts of the skin, and then by the appearance of cutaneous and subcutaneous nodules which sometimes ulcerate, and may cause great disfigurement. The lymph-glands and spleen become enlarged, the general health sufters greatly, leucocythsemia (according to Kaposi) sets in, and the patient dies in the long run. The nodules are found mainly in the subcutaneous tissue, but there is a considerable secondary infiltration of the corium. The nodules and infiltrations consist of a delicate stroma packed with leucocytes, which are mainly lymphocytes apparently. Much discussion as to the real nature of the disease has taken place. The general opinion is that the condition is a variety of mycosis fungoides, and that the main difference from the ordinary form of that disease lies in the unusual depth at which the nodules and infiltra- tions, which are identical in structure with those of mycosis, are found in the skin. The great increase in the leucocytes of the blood is more probably a leucocytosis similar to that found in mycosis fungoides and sarcomatosis cutis than a true leucocythfemia, and the clinical course of the two conditions is similar. The prognosis is always bad; the treatment must be symptomatic. Lymphatic Circulation of the Central Nervous System.—Physiology and Pathology.—108 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF I append to this article a summary of the views of Ford Robertson, published within the last few weeks in his Pathology of Mental Diseases, on this subject, becaiise they give us by far the most consecutive and logical accoimt which has as yet appeared, and fill up the lacunae of our previous knowledge. (See " Brain, Physiology of.") The brain (which may be taken as the type of the rest of the central nervous system) has no specialised lymph-vessels like organs, but the lymph is carried through a series of spaces and channels. When the lymph leaves the intra- cerebral capillaries it passes at once into the spongy mass of the brain, composed of nerve- cells, their processes, and the glia cells, which are loosely packed together and are bathed everywhere by the fluid. It used to be believed that the blood-vessels within the brain, and the nerve-cells also, at least the larger nerve-cells, were surroimded by lymph channels and spaces ; but these appearances have been shown to be due to shrinking of the delicate tissues due to the hardening agents employed. When the lymph has percolated this spongy mass it is collected in the adventitial lymph-channels of the intracerebral arterioles and venules, which are spaces in the whole of the connective tissue of the relatively thick adventitia of these vessels, and runs with them to the surface of the brain, where it is poured into the spaces of the arachnoid. There is no lymph-space lying between the brain-substance and the pia-arach- noid. From the arachnoid spaces it passes to the veins by several paths—through channels in the walls of the venous sinuses, through the Pacchionian villi into the superior longitudinal simis, in channels in the sheaths of the cranial and spinal nerves, and, most important of all, in the perivascular canals of the dura mater. These are grooves or channels in which lie the large capillaries of the inner aspect of the dura, and they appear to discharge into the diiral and cranial veins. The choroid plexuses probably both exude and absorb lymph, but only to a limited extent. The lymph of the brain is usually spoken of as cerebro-spinal fluid, and it differs in several respects from ordinary lymph. It is a clear fluid, with specific gravity from 1005 to 1010, faintly alkaline, containing practically no cells, and only about 1 per cent of solids. These are mainly salts ; proteids are present to the amount of only 0"1 per cent, and this is almost entirely globulin; serum albumin, fibrinogen, and fibrin ferment are not represented, so that the fluid does not clot. It contains also a substance which reduces Fehling's solution, but whose nature is not determined. The rate of production of the cerebro-spinal fluid depends, as elsewhere in the body, on the relation between the pressure in the capillaries and that in the cerebral lymph space. The low proteid percentage of the fluid and the small number of leucocytes present probably means that the intracerebral capillaries are specially impermeable (see the sections on Lymph Pro- duction). The rate of absorption depends on the difference between its pressure and that of the blood in the dural and cranial veins. This venous pressure varies with respiration. In expiration it is probably equal to that of the cerebro-spinal fluid (or the intracranial pressure), so there will then be no outflow of lymph into the veins. In inspiration the dural venous pressure falls below the intracranial, so that there will then be an outflow of the fluid. The amount of cerebro-spinal fluid is probably over-estimated. The vessels of the brain con- tract after death, fluid exudes, and the amount is thus apparently increased, while the brain decreases in size. In life there is probably no more than is requisite to fill up inequalities of surface, though there must always be a good deal in the arachnoid spaces of the cord. The pathological conditions of the cerebral lymph-system, apart from the alterations, such as hydrocephalus, produced by gross lesions, are not numerous. Excess of cerebro-spinal fluid is simply the ex- pression of brain atrophy, and is proportional to it. Alterations in the composition of the fluid may be due to several causes : (1) alterations in the blood—an excellent example of this is the mania which sometimes occurs in gastro-intestinal auto-intoxication ; (2) abnormal metabolism in the cerebral tissues, and (3) disintegration of the cerebral tissues, are merely stages in the process, and are best seen in general paralysis and in senile, alcoholic, and acute insanities. Obstruction of the lymph-channels is important in insanity as a secondary factor aggravating the primary morbid condition. It is due to abnormalities in the cerebro-spinal fluid, pro- duced in the various ways mentioned above, and rendering it unfitted to preserve the nutri- tion of the tissues. The condition is most severe in general paralysis, but occurs also in senile, alcoholic, choreic, and in most acute insanities. ■ There are three situations where it may occur:—(1) In the adventitial channels of the intracerebral vessels. Here the change will be very readily compensated for unless its dis- tribution is very wide. (2) In the arachnoid spaces, which, however, are so permeable that there is little likelihood of complete obstruction. (.3) In the perivascular channels of the dura and the sheaths of the cranial nerves, which suffer in the same way. The more complete the ob- struction here the more harmful is it. Where this occurs, as in all advanced cases of general paralysis and many of senile insanity, the mechanism by which variations in the amount of the blood sent to the brain is compensated for is disorganised, and pressure disturbances109 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF occur. Moreover, the cerebro-spinal fluid be- comes stagnant, and removal of the products of metabolism only takes place by diffusion through the capillary walls, so that a chronic cerebral auto-intoxication takes place, which gets worse the longer it continues. Lymphatic Vessels. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology ; see also Brain, Physiology of {Lymphatic Circulation); Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Anatomical Considerations, Lymphatic System); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Lymphatics). LymphatiSITI. — Lymphatism or the status lymphaticus is a morbid state consisting in the enlargement of the lymphatic apparatus, especially the part within the body, occurring most frequently in children, associated with hypoplasia of the heart and arterial system, and tending to produce sudden death (e.g. during convalescence from diphtheria or infectious fevers, during ansesthesia, etc.). See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Status Lymphaticus); Status Lymphaticus ; Thymus Gland (Lymphatism). Lymphocyte.—A lymph corpuscle; a variety of leucocyte in which the nucleus is large and the quantity of protoplasm com- paratively small. Lymphocythaemia. — The presence of an abnormally great number of lymphocytes in the blood. See Leucocyth^mia. Lymphocytosis. See Lbucocytosis. Lymphodermia.—A morbid state of the lymphatics of the skin. Lymphodermia Perniciosa.— Lymphodermia perniciosa or leukaemia cutis is a rare disease of the skin, first described by Kaposi, which consists in the development of a scaly, weeping, and very itchy eczema, followed by doughy swelling of the part, by the appear- ance of cutaneous or subcutaneous nodules, by enlargement of the spleen and lymph glands, by leucocythsemia, and generally, after a time, by death : it is generally regarded as a variety of mycosis fungoides. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphodermia Perniciosa). Lymphoma.—A neoplasm composed of tissue resembling that of a lymphatic gland ; lymphadenoma. See Lymphatic System, Physi- ology AND Pathology (Lymphadenoma). Lymphomatosis. — Lymphadenoma. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Patho- logy (Lymphadenoma). Lymphorrhag-ia. —A flow of lymph taking place from an injured or diseased lym- phatic vessel (e.g. thoracic duct). Lymphosarcoma.—Lymphadenoma; a sarcoma containing lymphoid elements, or a sarcoma arising in a lymphatic gland. See Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphadenoma); Mediastinum (Growths). Lymph - Scrotum. — See Scrotum, Diseases of (Varijc Lymphaticus). Lypemania. — Melancholia; insanity characterised by intense mental depression and often by refusal to take food (Gr. kvirrj, distress, and [xavia, madness). Lypothymia.—Melancholia (Gr. Auttt/, distress or grief, ^vyaos, disposition); lypero- phrenia has the same meaning. Lysidine.—Methylglyoxalidine (C4HgN2), recommended in gout and rheumatism for the same purposes as piperazine is employed ; dose, 15 to 75 grains per diem. Lysin.—A hexone base or diamido acid— diamido-caproic acid (CgHj^NgOg) ; a substance found in the blood serum capable of dissolving cells. See Physiology, Protoplasm (Proteids, Protamines). Lysis.—Gradual defervescence (in contrast to rapid defervescence or crisis, q.v.), as is seen in typhoid fever (Gr. Xvtw, to loosen). See Temperature (Fever, Defervescence). LySOform.—A combination of lysol and formaldehyde, having antiseptic properties in 1 to 3 per cent solutions. Lysol.—A popular antiseptic liquid, brown in colour, and giving a soapy character to water with which it is mixed ; it is a coal-tar product, and consists of a solution of tar-oils in a neutral soap; a 2 per cent solution is useful for hands and instruments in operative work. LySSa.—Hydrophobia or rabies (Gr. Xvcrcra frenzy, madness). See Rabies. LySSOphobia.—A morbid condition of a neurotic or hysterical kind following in cer- tain individuals the bite of a dog not suffering from rabies ; pseudo-hydrophobia or hydrophobo- phobia. Lyterian.—Indicating the termination of a disease (Gr. Aveiv, to loosen). LythiasiS.—Lithiasis ; calcareous change, e.g. in the retained secretion of the Meibomian glands. See Eyelids, Affections of (Infarcts of Meibomian Glands). Lytta. — A vermiform structure (" the worm") found in the tongue of the dog and other carnivora, and popularly believed to be the cause of rabies (Gr. XvTra, madness, the Attic form of Xvcra-a).110 MABEY'S MALADY Mabey'S Malady.—A disease affect- ing young persons, characterised by recurring attacks of iritis, the formation of opacities in the vitreous, sometimes by the entire loss of the eye, by chronic disorganisation of the last joints of the fingers (acro-arthritis), by liability to chilblains and a tendency to tuberculosis; it is usually associated with gout. (J. Hutchin- son, Archives of Surgery, iv. 361, 1893; xi. 205, 1900.) Macaco Worm.—The larva of a fly {Cuterebra or Dermatobia noxialis) found in Central America, which penetrates the skin of man and cattle and sets up much irritation. Macaroni. See Diet {Vegetable Foods, Cereals, Wheat Flour); Invalid Feeding (Vege- tables, Boiled Macaroni). M*^Burney's Point.—A tender spot, usually found in cases of appendicitis, midway between the anterior superior iliac spine on the right side and the umbilicus. The pain is elicited by deep and continuous pressure. See Appendix Vermiformis {Appendicitis, Symptoms, Pain). M^^CIintOCk'S Rule.-The statement that a rapid pulse (100 or over), immediately after labour, points to impending post-partum haemorrhage. MacCormac's Osteotomy. See Deformities {Genu Valgum, Treatynent). Maceilaria.—The screw-worm, the larva of a fly {lucilia hominivora) found in Central and South America, whose eggs are apt to be deposited in the anterior nares and to give rise there (during their development) to serious and even fatal consequences {meningitis, haimorrhage, etc.); sleeping in the open air should therefore be avoided in those countries. See Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Parasites). Maceration.—The process of softening by steeping a hard substance in a liquid (usually water), as employed in Pharmacy ; the softening of the foetal tissues and their loading with blood- stained serum which occurs after antenatal death when the foetus is retained in the uterus and is not invaded by the germs of putrefaction. See Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases {Death of the Foetus, Maceration). Macewen'S Osteotomy. See De- formities {Genu Valgum, Treatment). Macewen'S Symptom.—The oc- currence of increased resonance on combined auscultation and percussion of the skull in cases of distension of the lateral ventricles and other marked changes in the brain. Machlotes.—Nymphomania (Gr. fxa^ko^, lustful or lewd). Macies.—Emaciation ; macilency ; lean- ness. Macivor Process. — A method of manufacturing white lead; it is not free from the risk of plumbism to the workers. See Trades, Dangerous {Lead Poisoning). Mackenrodt's Operation. — An operation for vesico-vaginal fistula, in which an incision is made round the edge of the fistula, the vagina is separated from the bladder by blunt dissection, the vesical opening is closed by sutures, and the vaginal opening left to heal without being sutured. Mackenzie's Operation. —A method of performing amputation at the ankle- joint ; a modification of Syme's method. See Amputations {At the AnMe-Joint). Mackenzie's Polygraph. See Pulse {Pulse and Respiration, Clinical Poly- graph). Mackerel. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Diseases due to Poisonous Fish) ; Toxicology {Food-Stuffs, Fish). Mackinnel's Ventilator.—A means of ventilating buildings, consisting of a double circular tube ; there is an inner outlet, and an outer inlet tube, the former of which rises above the latter and is protected by a cowl. Macleyine.—An alkaloid (C2(,Hj9N05) obtained by Eyckmann from Macleya cordata. Macro-. — In compound words macro- (Gr. fxaKpos, long), as a prefix, means large or long, e.g. 7nacrobiosis, longevity, etc. MacrO->Csthesia. —A disturbance of tactile sensation, in which bodies handled feel larger than they really are. Macrocephalia or Macro- Cephaly.—An anomaly in which the head is abnormally large; the term is not usually applied to the cases in which the enlargement is due to hydrocephalus. See Insanity, Patho- logy {Pathological Anatomy, Skull). Macrocheilia or Macrochelia. —Enlargement of the lips, congenital or acquired ; the upper lip only may be affected {epimacrochelia of Taruffi) or the lower one only {hypomacrochelia). The "Hapsburg" or " Leopold lip," so often found in the Austrian royal family, would appear to be an instance of hereditary hypomacrochelia; it may be asso- ciated with hypertrophy of the tongue (macro- glossia). See Lymphatic System, Physiology AND Pathology {Dilatation of Lymphatics). MacrOCheiria.—Enlargement of the hands, congenital or acquired.MACROCORNEA 111 MacrOCOrnea. — Keratoglobus. See Cornea {Conical Co7-nea). IVIacrOCyte.—An abnormally large red blood corpuscle, met with in certain forms of anaemia and particularly in the pernicious variety; it usually measures 10 ju, in diameter but may reach as much as 20 /x; the condition of the blood when these macrocytes or megalo- cytes are present is called macrocytosis or macro- cythaemia. Macrodactyly. — Hypertrophy, gener- Macromastia or Macromazia. — Abnormal enlargement of the mammary gland. ally congenital, of one or more of the digits; it is a localised variety of macrosomia. Macrogamete.—A female sexual cell in the Sporozoa ; a stage in the evolution of the malaria parasite. MacrOg-ametOCyte. — A non flagel- lating granular sphere containing a macroga- mete. See Malaria {Parasitology). MacrOglOSSia. — Enlargement of the tongue, usually congenital, sometimes but rarely unilateral, and generally of the nature of a lymphangioma ; it may he treated surgically by the removal of a V-shaped portion. See Cheek, Fissure of {Associated Malformations); Cret- inism ; Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Dilatation of Lymphatics); Tongue {Malformations). Macrognathism. — Excessive size or protrusion of the jaws (Gr. ym^os, a jaw). Macromelia. of a limb. Abnormal enlargement Macronychia.—Excessive size of the nails. Macrophages. — Large lymphocytes, constituting a variety of phagocyte believed to have a solely haemolytic function. Macro podia. — Excessive size of the feet, a form of localised macrosomia. MacroprOSOpuS.—A foetus with abnormal enlargement of the face (Gr. TTpocrunrov, the face). Macropsia.—A disturbance of vision in which objects appear too large ; mega- lopsia or macropia. See Choroid, Diseases OF {Plastic Choroiditis, Symptoms); Hys- teria. MaCrOSCelia.—A malformation in which there is excessive development of the legs (Gr. cTKeAos, the leg). Macroscopic. — Large enough to be seen without the help of the microscope ; gross. Macrosomia. — Abnormal enlarge- ment of the whole body, congenital or de- veloping after birth ; giantism. Macrostoma or Macro- StOinla. — Abnormal largeness of the mouth, due sometimes to a congenital fissure at one or both of its angles. See Cheek, Fissure of ; Palate {Congenital Malfor- mations of the Mouth, Macrostoma). Macrotia.—Excessive size of the ears. Macula.—A spot or stain, or patch of pigmentation; a blemish. Macula Lutea.—The yellow spot of the retina, the centre of vision. See Brain, Physiology op {Cranial Nerves, Optic); Eye- ball, Injuries of {Haab's Macidar Disease) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus, Causes); Physiology, Nervous System {Cere- brum, Visual Centre). Macula Materna. "mother's mark." nsevus or Maculae Caeruleae.—Purple or slate coloured spots seen on the skin in cases of pediculosis, phtheiriasis, etc. See Pediculosis {Pediculosis pubis, Taches ombrees).112 MACULE CORNER Maculae Corneae.—Opacities in the cornea. 8ee Cornea. Maculae HepatiCSe.—The pigmented spots of chloasma, lentigo or pityriasis versicolor. Maculae Lividae.—The spots of pur- pura or of other skin diseases accompanied by haemorrhages. Macular. — Having the character of pigmented spots, e.g. the macular syphilides. See Syphilis (^Acquired, Affections of the Skin). MacUlO-papular.—Having the char- acter of botli a papule and a macule, used in the description of certain skin diseases. MadarOSiS.—Loss of hair or baldness (Gr. fxaSapo^, bald), especially madarosis ciliaris, loss of the eyelashes. Maddox Rod Test.—The use of the Maddox Tangent Strabismometer to detect binocular vision. See Eye, Clinical Examina- tion OF {Test for Binocular Vision); Ocular Muscles, Affections of (Abnormal Position, Test); Strabismus (Strabometry). Madeira. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Islands of the South Atlantic). Madelung^'s Malady. — Diffuse lipoma of the neck; Madelung's neck (Germ. Madelung-Fetthals). Madness. See Insanity. Madura Foot.—Mycetoma (q.v). See also Actinomycosis {Affinities). Mag^endie's Foramen.—The fora- men by means of which communication is established between the fourth ventricle of the brain and the subarachnoid space. See Brain, Physiology of {Lym2:)hatic Circulation) ; Men- inges of the Cerebrum {Anatomy). Magrendie's Spaces.—The lymph spaces lying between the cerebral pia mater and the arachnoid, corresponding to the sulci of the underlying brain. Maggots. See Myiasis {Myiasis Nariuni, etc.) ; Nose, Foreign Bodies, etc. {Parasites of the Nose). Magistral.—In Pharmacy the term is applied to a medicine made up (by prescription) for a special case or occasion; not ofhcinal ; also, specially or supremely effective or sovereign. Magnan'S Sign. —An hallucination of feeling {e.g. the sensation of a foreign body under the skin) observed in cases of chronic cocaine poisoning. See Morpiiinomania and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine Habits). Magnesium. See also Pharmacology ; Toxicology {Rritants, Epsom Salts); Urine, Pathological Changes in {Metals).—Symbol, Mg. ; atomic weight, 24'18. Magnesium is employed therapeutically in the form of the following salts. 1. Magnesii Sulphas. Epsom Salts. Soluble 1 in 1 of water. Z»ose—30-120 grs. repeated; 3 for a single administration. Preparation—Magnesii Sulphas Effervescens, made in the same manner as other effervescing salines. Dose—1-4 5 repeated ; \-\ 5 for a single administration. Magnesium sulphate is contained in Mistura Sennse Composita. 2. Magnesii Carbonas Ponderosus. Feebly soluble in water. Dose—5-30 grs repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. Preparation— Liquor Magnesii Carbonatis. Fluid magnesia. A clear effervescing liquid containing carbonic acid gas under pressure. Each fluid ounce represents 10 grs. of the carbonate. Dose—1-2 3. 3. Mag7iesia Carbonas Levis. Very insoluble. Dose-—5-30 grs. repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. 4. Magnesia Ponderosa. Heavy magnesium oxide. Very insoluble. Dose—5-30 repeated ; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. 5. Magnesia Levis. Light magnesium oxide. Very feebly soluble. Dose —5-30 grs. repeated; 30-60 grs. for a single administration. Magnesia is contained in Pulvis Rhei Compositus. The action of the salts of magnesium is entirely confined to the alimentary canal. The quantity absorbed from the intestine is too minute to allow of any action on the blood or kidneys. It has been found that if introduced directly into the blood stream they have a poisonous effect particularly on the respiratory centre. Magnesium sulphate is widely em- ployed as a purgative. In concentrated solu- tion it causes a large outflow of fluid into the intestine with increase of peristalsis, and induces copious watery evacuation of the bowels. In this form it is a useful occasional purgative in constipation associated with liver disorder, in gout, in dropsy, in ascites, and in the puer- perium when it is desired to suppress the secre- tion of milk. It is commonly given some hours after a mercui-ial purge in order to complete the action of the latter. When administered over long periods magnesium sulphate should be employed in dilute solution, as in one or other of the popular mineral waters. Large doses are somewhat depressing, and are not suitable for old or feeble s\ibjects. "Henry's solution," containing magnesium sulphate and distilled water in equal proportions with a little dilute sulphuric acid, is a favourite method of ad- ministering salts either by the mouth or in the form of an enema. Magnesium citrate (non- ofiicial) is a mild purgative given in doses of from 20-120 grains. The sulphates of sodium and magnesium have given good results in the treatment of dysentery. Dilute solutions ofMAGN magnesium sulphate produce anaesthesia when injected intraspinously, but the drug has been little employed for this purpose. Intracerebral injection has been reported to have a favourable effect in tetanus. Magnesium sulphate forms an insoluble sulphate with salts of lead, and is therefore given as a prophylactic to lead workers. Magnesia and the carbonates are given to neutralise acids in the stomach and intestine in the treatment of dyspepsias and diarrhoea; they also have a mild purgative action, and the carbonate is often used in con- junction with the sulphate. They form in- soluble compounds with mineral acids, oxalic acid, and salts of mercury, arsenic, and copper, and they are therefore administered in cases of poisoning from these substances. Magrnesium-Perhydrol.—A form of magnesium peroxide introduced by Merck; it is a white powder, insoluble in water; in the stomach the preparation splits up into mag- nesium chloride and peroxide of hydrogen which yields oxygen, and if it is desired that this de- composition do not take place till the intestine is reached the drug can be given as a coated tablet. It is recommended as a gastro-intestinal antiseptic in cases of gastric catarrh (of various kinds), of dysentery, of diarrhoea, of habitual constipation, of anaemia and chlorosis, etc. See also Hydrogen Peroxide. Ma.g'netism. See Electricity {Magneto- Electricity, Faradism). Magrnetism, Animal. See Hyp- notism. Mag'nolia.—A genus of plants the bark of which is used in intermittent fever and rheu- matism ; official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia. MahatlCa. See Andrographis. Mahler's Sigri.—The progressive rise of the pulse-rate (the temperature remaining normal) in the puerperium is regarded as an early sign of impending thrombosis and embolism. Maialine.—An alkaloid extracted from Convallaria majalis. Maiche Steriliser.—An apparatus for sterilising water by boiling, in which a loss of the gaseous constituents is prevented and the water is rapidly cooled down. Maid ism US.—Pellagra {q.v.), a disease due to the toxic action of diseased maize. Maieusiomania.—Puerperal mania. MaieuSOphobia.—A dread of having children or of childbirth. MaieutiCS. — Obstetrics or midwifery (Gr. /Attta, a midwife). vol. VI ESIUM 113 Maig^nen'S Filter.—A filter for puri- fying water, containing charcoal, lime, and as- bestos ; it is named " filtre rapide." Maig^nen's Process.—A method of removing the hardness of water by the addition of a powder composed of lime, carbonate of soda, and alum (" poudre anticalcaire "). Main-en-g^riffe.—Claw-hand, due to atrophy of the interossei muscles in cases of paralysis; it is occasionally seen in tetany. See Paralysis [Progressive Muscular Atrophy) ; Tetany {Motor Syrn2)toms). MaiSOn de Sant^.—A private lunatic asylum. Maisonneuve's Method.—A method of performing internal urethrotomy See Urethra, Diseases of {Stricture, Treatment). Maize. See Pellagra {Causes); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion (Vegetable, Cereals); Toxicology ( Vegetable Foods, Pellagra). Mai.—Disease (Fr.); e.g. mal de mer (sea- sickness), mal de tete (headache), grand mal (a fully developed attack of epilepsy). Malacca. See Balneology {Ivdia). Malacia.—A morbid softness of an organ or tissue {e.g. malacosteon), or the depraved appetite of pregnancy {pica). Malacosteon. See Osteomalacia {Mol- lities Ossiuin); Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed {Rarer Fo7-ms of Pelvic Deformity, Osteomalacic Pelvis); Pregnancy, Affections and Complications {Osseous Changes, Osteo- malacia). Malady. See Disease, especially for such eponymic terms as maladie de Hanot (Hyper- trophic Cirrhosis of the Liver), maladie de Woillez (Primary Congestion of the Lungs), etc. Malagra. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Mediterranean Resorts, Spain). Malaise.—A condition of general dis- comfort with languor and lassitude, but usually without the development of any symptoms pointing to a definite disease; malease without disease. Malar.—Relating to the cheek (Lat. mala, the jaw or cheek bone); e.g. the malar bone, a malar flush, etc. Malaria. Nomenclature and Synonyms . . 114 Definition . . . . . . 11-i Historical . . . . . .114 Geographical Distribution . . .116 8MALARIA 114 Parasitology . . . . . .117 Human Phase of the Parasite . . 119 The Mosquito 121 The Mosquito Cycle of the Malarial Parasite . . . . .126 Demonstration of the Parasite in the Blood 128 Fallacies . . . . . .131 Demonstration of the Parasite in the Mosquito 131 Clinical Manifestations of Malaria . 131 Benign Tertian Fever . . . .133 Prodromata . . . . .133 Febrile Paroxysm . . . .133 Intermission . . . . .134 Convalescence . . . . .134 The Blood and Urine . . .134 Quartan Fever . . . . .135 The Blood 135 Abortive or Larval Malaria . . 135 Malignant (^Estivo-Autumnal) Malarial Fever 136 Bilious Pemittent . . . .137 Typhoidal Remittent . . .137 Adynamic . . . . .137 Pernicious Attacks . . . .137 Cerebral Forms . . . .137 Algide Forms . . . . .138 The Blood in Malignant Fever . . 138 Relapses . . . . . .139 Sequelae— Malarial Cachexia . . . .139 Complications . . . . .140 Typho-Malaria . . . . .140 Diagnosis . . . . . .141 Morbid Anatomy— The Blood 142 Pigment . . . . . .142 Internal Organs . . . .143 Etiology 143 Treatment . . . . . .144 Prophylaxis . . . . . .145 See also Blackwater Fever {Etiology, Dia- gnosis) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute, Etiology) ; Cachexia ; Cholera Nostras {Etiology); Cor- nea {Interstitial Keratitis of Adults, Etiology); Dengue {Diagnosis); Dysentery {Special Forms and Co?)iplications, Malaria); Epidemiology {Seasonal Fluctuations); Hematuria {Malarial); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Simple Endocarditis, Etiology) ; In- sanity, Etiology of; Leucocytosis {Leuco- penia); Liver, Diseases of {Portal Cirrhosis, Morbid Anatomy, Malarial Type); Liver, Tropical Diseases of {Tropical Abscess, Etiology, Malaria); Meteorology {Influence on Health) ; Nephritis {Chronic Nephritis, Etiology, Mal- aria) ; Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Etiology); Nerves, Neuralgia {Etiology); Ponos {Relation to Malaria); Pregnancy, In- tra-uterine Diseases {Feetal Malaria) ; Pur- pura {Symptomatic, Infectious); Relapsing Fever {Diagnosis) ; Retina and Optic Nerve {HcBmorrhages in Retina, Causes) ; Scrotum AND Testicle, Diseases of {Orchitis, Malarial Orchitis); Septicemia {Diagnosis); Tubercu- losis {Mixed Infection); Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Typho-malarial Fever, Kala-Amr); Typhoid Fever {Diagnosis); Unconsciousness (Auto - Intoxications, Malaria); Undulant Fever {Etiology). Nomenclature and Synonyms. — The term malaria, originally an Italian word derived from mala, bad, and aria, air, has now come to be very generally employed by most civilised nations throughout the world. The French, however, more commonly employ the terms paludisme, paludeennes, fievres palustres, im- paludisme, fievres intermittentes, and fievres des marais. The popular term in English was ague ; in the Tropics " fever " is more usual, the German equivalent being wechselfieber. The recent discoveries in the life-history of the malarial parasite prove that the word malaria is etymologically incorrect, but inas- much as it is so universally adopted and so well understood, no very useful purpose would be attained by renaming the disease. Ross has suggested the terms hoemamoebiasis and gnat fever; objections, however, might be raised to both of these terms, and it is unlikely that the word malaria will ever be discarded. Definition.—Malaria is a specific infectious disease caused by the presence of certain proto- zoal organisms in the red corpuscles of man, manifesting itself by anaemia, melansemia, splenic enlargement, and usually pyrexia, which may exhibit a characteristic periodicity, and ^ pass from man to man by the agency of certain species of mosquito. History.—Hippocrates, Celsius, and Galen frequently refer to the disease in their writings, and there is but little doubt that in early times malaria was a scourge in most of the warmer parts of Europe. Hippocrates gives the best accounts of the malady; he observed, for ex- ample, that the severe types of the fever were prevalent at certain seasons of the year. He was aware also of the liability of the remittent fevers to malignancy, and of the benignity of the frank intermittents. Coming to later times, the work of Morton in the seventeenth century, and those of Sydenham and Lancisi early in the eighteenth century, deserve mention. Beyond the fact, however, that the clinical features of the disease were more accurately described by these more modern writers, no real advance was made until 1712, when Torti, in Italy, began to differentiate malaria from the other fevers. Cinchona bark had been introduced into Europe ^ So far as is known at present the disease, under natural conditions, is conveyed in no other way. Lower animals, birds, and reptiles, although they harbour allied species of hremoprotozoa, have not been found to serve as intermediate hosts for the malarial parasites of man.MALARIA 115 by the Countess del Chinchon in 1640, and about the beginning of the eighteenth century it was coming into general use for the treatment of fevers. Torti divided fevers into two classes : those that were cured by this drug and those that were not. He also formulated an elaborate classification of the malarial fevers; but al- though he made many valuable observations, it is evident from his writings that he frequently confounded typhoid and typhus with malaria. In 1847 Meckel in Vienna first described the black pigment, so characteristic of malarial infection. In 1849 Virchow in Berlin saw similar pigment in a fatal case of malaria. Both these pathologists, unconsciously, had discovered the malarial parasite, for they described the pigmented bodies as being distinct from ordinary leucocytes. They failed, however, to recognise the true significance of what they had observed. In 1867 Binz noticed the toxic eff'ect of quinine on certain infusoria, and hinted at the possibility of malaria being caused by a proto- zoal organism. In 1879 Klebs and Tommasi-Crudeli excited world-wide interest by the discovery of their fictitious malaria bacillus, and it was not until some years after the publication of Laveran's discovery that the bacillary origin of malaria was finally discarded. They had many sup- porters, amongst them being such eminent observers as Marchiafava, Celli, and most of the Italian school. In 1880 Laveran, who was at that time a French army surgeon stationed at Constantine in Algiers, took up the study of melansemia, and on examining the blood of malarial patients discovered the crescent bodies, or, as they are sometimes called, Laveran's bodies. He at once recognised their parasitic nature. He subse- quently observed the pigmented ama3boid forms of the parasite, and also the evolution of the flagellated body from the crescent body. To Laveran alone is due the honour of having discovered the malarial parasite, and his work must always remain a landmark in medicine. In 1882 Richard confirmed Laveran's brilliant discovery, and was the first to observe the small non-pigmented forms of the parasite. He stated that the malarial parasite was essentially an intracorpuscular body, whereas Laveran affirmed that it was free or epicorpuscular, being attached (accole) merely to the red corpuscle. So firmly were the Italian school and other workers in the same field imbued at this time with a belief in the Klebs-Tommasi-Crudeli bacillus, that Laveran's discovery was neglected. Marchiafava and Celli said his parasites were merely degenerated changes in the red cor- puscles. In 1885, however, on working with fresh instead of stained blood preparatioiis, which had hitherto been employed, they at once recognised the validity of Laveran's discovery. Golgi next took up the study of the subject, and to him we owe the diff'erentiation of the quartan from the benign tertian parasite. He described accurately their respective morpho- logical characters. He observed also that the febrile paroxysm coincided in point of time with the sporulation of the parasites. Marchiafava, Bignami, Celli, and Mannaberg did equally good work in the classification and in the study of the morphology of the sestivo - autumnal parasites. Many others subsequently confirmed or filled in details in the work of those already men- tioned. Amongst these were Carter, Grassi, Bastianelli, Feletti, Osier, Thayer, Manson, Koch, Pfeiffer, and Plehn. About this time the exact significance of the crescent and flagellated bodies was much dis- puted. Laveran, Manson, and Mannaberg held strongly to the view that they presented all the characters of living organisms, and that they must subserve some useful purpose in the life-history of the malarial parasite. Bignami, Bastianelli, and most of the Italian school, on the other hand, were inclined to believe that these bodies represented merely degenerative forms of the parasite. In 1894 Manson suggested that, inasmuch as there must be some provision in Nature by which the malarial parasite passes from man to man, in order that it may continue as a species, and on account of the similarities, in anatomical position in the blood-vessels, in the biological necessities, and in the geographical distribution subsisting between Filaria nocturna and the malaria parasite, the mosquito might subserve the latter in a manner similar to what he had shown it to subserve the former. Furthermore, that, as special species of mosquito seem to be necessary for the development of the Filaria nocturna, probably special species are required by the malaria parasite. Finally, he advanced the hypothesis that, as the flagellated body is not evolved from the crescent until the latter has left the human body, and because of the peculiar motion which the flagella possess (suggesting locomotion and penetration), this was the phase of the parasite which was connected with the extracorporeal or mosquito cycle. Previously, Nott in 1848, King in 1883, and Laveran in 1891, had suggested that the mosquito had some connection with malaria, founding their conjectures upon epidemiological, rather than on zoological premises. In May 1895, Major Ross, I.M.S., who was impressed by the malaria-mosquito theory which had been enunciated by Manson, undertook the investigation of the subject, and after several years' labour, during which he experienced many disappointments and failures, he ulti- mately fully established the correctness of the leading principles of the theory. His experi-116 MALARIA ments consisted in feeding mosquitoes of the genus Culex on patients whose blood was known to contain crescent bodies. These mosquitoes were then dissected at serial intervals : many- crescent bodies were found to have undergone exflagellation in the stomach cavity of those mosquitoes, which were examined shortly after haustellation. Ross noticed that this exflagel- lation took place more readily in the mosquito's stomach than in an ordinary fresh blood slide preparation. Mosquitoes that had been kept alive for a longer period after feeding failed to show any further change in the parasite. Feeling convinced that he was working in the right direction, Ross repeated his experiments again and again, but always with the same result. In August 1897, instead of the ordinary mosquito {Culex), he used a difi^erent mosquito of the genus Anopheles, and observed a further stage of development, namely, in the stomach wall, where he found certain pigmented cells lying between the muscular fibres. Ross was unable at the time to follow up this important discovery. His specimens, however, were sub- mitted to Manson, Laveran, Metchnikoff', Thin, and others. These observers were agreed that the pigmented bodies referred to might be of malarial origin. Early in 1898 Ross was transferred to Calcutta, where, in the absence of suitable malarial patients, he studied a certain malaria- like parasite of birds, known as Proteosonia, and succeeded in working out the part of the life-cycle of this organism which is passed in the mosquito. He followed out the various changes which the parasite undergoes in the stomach-wall, and finally traced its sporozoites to the salivary gland of the insect. Next he fed mosquitoes of the genus Culex (Ctilex fatigans) on sparrows, whose blood contained the Froteosoma. The mosquitoes were kept alive for over a week, when their salivary glands were found to contain the sporozoites of the parasite. The infected mosquitoes were then allowed to bite healthy sparrows; in from five to eight days the blood of these latter was examined, with the result that in twenty-two out of twenty-eight unmistakable evidence of infection was discovered. Daniels subsequently confirmed Ross's work on the Froteosoma of birds. It was also con- firmed by the Italian workers, including Grassi and Bignami. These observers, with praise- worthy energy and promptitude, next worked out the details of the mosquito phase of the human malarial parasite. Their work has been most thorough; the malignant, the benign tertian, and quartan parasites have each been dealt with in turn. Koch also has confirmed Ross's work, both as regards avian and human malaria. In September 1898, Grassi and Bignami undertook a series of experiments to prove what the foregoing observations had already indicated, namely, that the malarial parasite passes from man to man by the agency of the mosquito. A man who had never suffered from malaria was successfully inoculated with the disease by means of the bites of laboratory-bred mosquitoes, which had been previously infected by feeding on patients suffering from malaria. After an incubation period the subject of the experiment suffered from an attack of malarial fever, and examination of his blood revealed the presence of the parasite. A similar experiment was recently made by Manson. Mosquitoes fed in Rome on a case of benign tertian malaria were transported to London, where they bit two healthy Englishmen : the latter after a few days developed malarial fever, and tertian parasites were found in their blood. An observation made by MacCallum, in 1897, on the blood of pigeons infected with another intracorpuscular parasite known as Halteridium, requires mention. MacCallum observed that some parasites which had escaped from the red corpuscles as spheres, exflagellated, and that others did not; the former were hyaline in appearance, the latter were granular. He witnessed a flagellum breaking away and be- coming free, and he saw it penetrate and enter one of the granular non-flagellating spheres. This sphere then altered in shape, becoming elongated, and pointed at one extremity and actively motile. These observations have been fully confirmed by others. A similar pheno- menon has since been observed by MacCallum to take place in human malarial blood. The important work of Smith and Kilborne in connection with Texas fever must be mentioned. Their researches (1889 to 1892) prove that cattle become inoculated with this disease by infected ticks {Rhipicephalus aimulatus). This fact is further evidence, if any, indeed, be necessary, that hsemoprotozoal disease may be carried by means of insects. The organism of Texas fever (Pyrosoma higeminum) differs, how- ever, from the malarial parasite, in that it is transmitted by the mother tick to her young, who, in their turn, infect the cattle. In the case of the human malarial parasite all attempts to transmit infection to man by means of the offspring of infected mosquitoes have, so far, failed. The work of Smith and Kilborne has been fully confirmed by Professor Koch in German East Africa, and by Celli and others in Italy. Dionisi has recently differentiated three dis- tinct species of hfemoprotozoal parasites in bats, which resemble very closely the tertian, quartan, and fEstivo-autumnal parasites of man. Koch has also discovered a similar parasite in African monkeys ; the observation has been confirmed by Kossel. Geographical Distribution.—Malaria is a117 MALARIA widespread disease. Speaking generally, it occurs with increasing frequency and intensity as the equator is approached. The distribution does not remain constant; some places that are now salubrious were formerly malarious, and other regions that are malarious to-day formerly enjoyed a freedom from the disease. The reason for this will become evident when the etiology of malaria is considered. Our knowledge of the geographical distribution of malaria is very imperfect; for example, large districts are loosely described as being malarious, whereas in many instances it is only in limited spots in these regions that the disease can be contracted. With the institution of prophylactic measures in any malarious country it will be necessary, for economic reasons, in order to attain success to limit and accurately define these endemic areas. Fuller knowledge is also required re- garding the particular types of malarial parasites which are to be found in the different malarious regions. In Europe malaria is steadily decreasing, and its endemic areas are restricted. Civilisation with its attendant improvements in sanitation, in dwelling-places, in agriculture, in drainage of land, and also in the treatment and diagnosis of disease, has had much to do with this. Malaria exists, at the present time, chiefly in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean, and in the islands of the Mediterranean. It is found in Italy, Greece, most of the Balkan States, Turkey, Hungary, Southern Russia (particularly the littorals of the Black Sea, Caspian Sea, and the Sea of Azof), also in Sicily, Crete, Corsica, and Sardinia, the Ionian Islands, and the islands of the Grecian Archi- pelago. It is also found in Spain and Portugal, and to a slight extent in France, along its Mediterranean shore and the Landes, and in Germany in the valley of the Rhine. In Northern Europe it is met with on the shores of the Baltic. Belgium, Holland, and the British Isles are now practically free from the disease. It is still met with in Denmark. For the most part the malarial fever of Europe is benign in character; but during the summer and autumn months, at certain places, malignant forms of the disease are prevalent, namely, in the Campagna and Pontine marshes around Rome, in Lombardy, Tuscany, Greece, Corsica, and in some of the other islands of the Mediterranean. In Asia, malaria has a much more extensive distribution than in Europe. It abounds, with varying degrees of frequency and intensity, throughout India, Indo-China, Southern China, Burma, Ceylon, the Malay Peninsula, Borneo, Sumatra, Java, and other islands of the Dutch East Indies. As a rule, the higher altitudes enjoy an immunity from the disease. The disease tends to diminish in places which have come well under European sway ; good examples of this are to be found in the histories of Hong- Kong and Singapore. It is peculiarly infrequent in Japan. In tropical Africa malaria manifests itself in its worst form, and the West Coast of this continent deservedly enjoys the reputation of being one of the most malarious regions in the world. The East Coast and Central Africa have an almost equally bad reputation. In Northern Africa malaria is less prevalent; it occurs in Algiers, but to a much less extent than formerly, and some places in this region which a short time ago were malarious, are now regarded as health resorts. It also occurs in Egypt, especially lower Egypt, and in the low- lands of Abyssinia and Nubia. In South Africa the disease is uncommon until the Zambesi is approached. At Delagoa Bay it is both frequent and virulent. Madagascar, Mauritius, and Reunion are all intensely malarious. In North America the British possessions are practically free from the disease, but in some of the more southern States of the American Union malaria is both common and severe. It is especially prevalent in the States bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, and the Mississippi, namely, Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, Ar- kansas, Missouri, Illinois, New Jersey, and to a less extent in Pennsylvania, California, Florida, and Georgia. It is found also in the river valleys of some of the northern States, but less frequently. It is hardly ever met with at a point higher than 45° of latitude. In Central America the disease is very prevalent and malignant in type; it occurs on both the Atlantic and Pacific sides of the continent, including Mexico, Panama, and Guatemala. In South America malaria is found in the Guianas, Venezuela, Bolivia, the basin of the Orinoco, also in the valleys of Peru and Brazil, but in the highlands of these countries it is absent. In the West Indies it is less prevalent than formerly, but it occurs in most of the islands during certain months of the year. The continent of Australia enjoys a com- parative immunity from the disease ; it occurs, however, to a considerable extent in Northern Queensland. New Zealand, Tasmania, and many of the Polynesian islands are free from malaria. Parasitology The malarial parasites are protozoal organisms belonging to the class Sporozoa. The human and avian have been recently classified as follows:— Family: H^mamcebid^, Wasielewski. Genus I. : Hcemamoeha, Grassi and Feletti. The mature gametocytes are similar in form to the 'mature sporocyte& before the spores have been differentiated.118 MALARIA Species 1 : HcBmamoeba Danilewskii, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Laverania Danilewskii, Grassi and Feletti, in part; Halteridium Danileivskii, Labbe; etc. Several varieties— possibly distinct species. Parasite of pigeons, jays, crows, etc. Species 2: Hoeniamoeba relicta, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hmmammba relicta + H. subjwce- cox + H. subimmaculata, Grassi and Feletti; Proteosoma Grassii, Labbe; etc. Parasite of sparrows, larks, etc. Species 3 : Hcemamoeba malarice, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Ilcernamceba Laverani, Labbe, in part. Parasite of quartan fever of man. Species 4: Hcemamoeba vivax, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hmmamaeba Laverani, Labbe, in part. Parasite of tertian fever of man. Genus II. : Haemomenas, gen. nov. Syn. : Laverania, in part+ //ct;«iamQ?5a, in part, Grassi and Feletti. The gametocytes have a special crescentic form. Species: Hoemomenas praecox, Grassi and Feletti. Syn. : Hceinamoeba prcecox + H. im- maculata + Laverania malarice, Grassi and Feletti; Hcemamoeba Laverani, Labbe, in part, etc. Several varieties—possibly distinct species. Parasite of the irregular, remittent, pernicious, tropical, or sestivo-autumnal fever of man. This classification and nomenclature must be regarded as provisional; doubtless, as our knowledge of these parasites advances, modifi- cations and additions will be necessary. It will be seen that under Genus I. there are two species of human malarial parasites, namely, Hoemamceba vivax, and Hcemamoeba malaricB— the parasites of benign tertian and quartan fever respectively. Under Genus II. there is one species, namely, Hcemomenas prcecox—the parasite of malignant or tropical malaria. Mannaberg and others subdivide this malig- nant variety into three distinct species, namely, a tertian, a non-pigmented quotidian, and a pigmented quotidian. This classification is, however, not universally accepted, and pending further investigations it is, on the whole, preferable to regard the malignant parasites as belonging to one species. That the three species of the malarial parasite, namely, the benign tertian, the quartan, and the malignant, are distinct species, and not merely varieties, as Laveran and others formerly maintained, is strongly supported by the fact that the inoculation of one type of parasite, either by means of the mosquito or by the direct inociilation of human malarial blood, gives rise to the corresponding type of the parasite, and no other, in the individual inoculated. The three species of the malarial parasite possess many features in common both m their morphology and in their life-history, so that, before proceeding to describe in detail the dis- tinctive features of each, it will be well to give here a general account of the parasite. A detailed description of each parasite will be found under the heading " Clinical Manifesta- tions of Malaria" on pp. 134, 13.5, and 138. General Description of Malarial Parasite.— The malarial organism is parasitic in man and in certain species of mosquito, the former being- its intermediate host, the latter its definitive host. It varies markedly in size during its phases of development, being in man from 1 fj. to 8 in the mosquito from 8 /x to 40 /j,, or even 60 /j, in diameter. In the human host it develops within the red blood corpuscle. Here, during the stage of its growth, it is a vmicellu- lar organism consisting of protoplasm, nucleus, and nucleolus. It possesses the power of motion, of growth, of absorbing and assimilating nutritive material, and of reproducing itself. The cell protoplasm is homogeneous, colourless, and somewhat diffluent, for current waves may be observed in its substance. The increase in size which the parasite imdergoes is chiefly due to the growth of its cell protoplasm. This stains readily with the ordinary basic dyes. The nucleus is a round, feebly refractile body which cannot, as a rule, be recognised in the living state. In early stages of development of the parasite the nucleus is of a relatively larger size than at the later stages. It contains chromatin matter which is regarded as the nucleolus and which, by special methods, stains intensely and characteristically (Fig. 1). normal red ce/l Fig. 1.—Illustrating anatomy ot benign tertian parasite. Whilst within the red corpuscle the parasite possesses amoeboid movement which enables it to change its position as well as its shape in the red cell. It is most active during its earlier stages of development. In the advanced stages amoeboid movement ceases. The parasite assimilates the haemoglobin of the red corpuscle which it has infected, and elaborates from it characteristic melanin gran- ules. These pigment granules under certain119 MALARIA conditions exhibit passive movement, always, however, remaining in the protoplasm of the parasite and never being found in its nucleus; they vary in amount, in colour, and in size. The degree of the amoeboid activity of the pro- toplasm and the character of the pigment granules form two important diagnostic features in distinguishing species. The malarial parasite, like certain of the Coccidiidee, is characterised by possessing two cycles of development. By following the one it matures and propagates within its human host by an asexual mode of reproduction. By the other, in order to attain maturity, after having partially developed in man it enters a second host, namely, certain species of mosquito. The mode of reproduction in the latter case is a sexual one. It is the mosquito cycle that en- sures the perpetuation of the parasite, because it is by this means that it is enabled to pass from man to man. The Human Phase of the Parasite.—If the blood of a patient be examined during an attack 0®..-f0 ' ox) ^ Fia. 2.—Benign tertian parasite (diagrammatic). The dotted circles indicate the outlines of the red copuscles. of malarial fever, for example of the benign tertian variety, and if the examination be made shortly after the rigor, a certain number of the red corpuscles will be found to contain small amoeboid bodies (see Fig. 2, a). These bodies are pale and somewhat indistinct, their index of refraction differing but little from that of the protoplasm of the red cell. They are constantly changing shape, protruding and retracting pseu- dopodia. On rare occasions two pseudopodia may be seen to join one another and enclose a little mass of haemoglobin. At this stage of development there are no pigment granules present. Some of the infected I'ed cells may contain two or more of the amoeboid bodies. A few observers are of opinion that these early forms of the parasite are epicorpuscular, that is to say, attached only to the surface of the corpuscle. There can be little doubt, however, that they ultimately become endocorpuscular, for the pseudopodia are never seen to protrude beyond the limits of the red cell; and if one of the parasites be watched it appears to be distinct at one moment, and at another to fade almost from view, as if it rose to the surface of the red cell and then sunk into its substance again. If the parasite were always epicorpus- cular such optical effects would not be produced, for the little organism would always be in the same focus. If the blood of the patient be examined again after an interval of twelve hours the parasites ^ will be found to have increased consider- ably in size and to occupy nearly one- ': fourth of the red corpuscle (see Fig. 2, b). They are still amoeboid. A few granules of pigment will now be observed in the protoplasm. Occasionally there can be seen a definite clear area which does not participate in the amoeboid movement, and which never contains pigment; this is the nucleus (Fig. 2, c). By ordinary methods of staining the nucleus can always be distinguished; it remains colourless, and so contrasts with the stained proto- plasm of the parasite (see Fig. 1). On using appropriate methods of staining, an intensely tinted spot, usually eccentrically located in the nucleus, may be observed; this is the nucleolus (see Fig. 1 and Plate I. a). If the blood examination be repeated after another interval of twelve hours the parasite will be seen to have increased still further in size, and to have developed more pigment. Amoeboid movement will be now less active, and staining shows that the nucleus and nucleolus have apparently changed but little in size and character (see Fig. 2, c). If blood examinations be continued at intervals a gradual increase in size can be traced, until a short time before the next rigor the parasites come to occupy nearly the whole of the corpuscle (see Fig. 2, d). If a stained specimen of the blood be now examined, it will be seen that the nucleus which hitherto had remained single has become broken up into little masses scattered throughout the parasite. Apparently at a late stage, prior to its division, the nucleolar matter becomes fragmented and diffused in the nucleus. These nucleolar masses stain well by the120 MALARIA Romanowsky method. At this advanced stage the pigment is abundant and relatively coarse in grain owing to the agglomeration of separate granules. It is scattered about in the proto- plasm of the parasite, whose amoeboid move- ments will have now ceased. If a blood exami- nation be made just before the onset of the rigor the parasites will be found to be in the sporulat- ing stage, showing the so-called rosette bodies. These are produced within the red corpuscle in the following way :—the hitherto scattered pig- ment becomes fused into a single dense central mass—around this the little masses of nuclear matter arrange themselves; segmentation now occurs in the protoplasm of the parasite, and each segment enclosing a little mass of nuclear matter becomes a spore (see Fig. 2, e and /). The number and arrangement of spores formed varies with the species of the parasite; for example, in the benign tertian, of which we are now speaking, there are fifteen to twenty-three such spores, which are arranged either in double rows or in an irregular manner. The pigment is occasionally divided into two or three masses, or it may be situated to one side (see Plate II., Fig. 6). This disposition of pigment is more frequently met with in stained specimens, owing, probably, to injury received in the preparation of the blood film. If the blood be examined during or towards the end of the rigor, and if the observer be fortunate, the rosette body may be seen actually in the process of breaking up ; the red corpuscle ruptures, allowing the spores to become free in the plasma (see Fig. 2, g). They can be distinguished from blood platlets, which they somewhat closely resemble by their definite form and special staining properties. Finally, the free spores gain entrance to fresh red corpuscles, and become the young endo- corpuscular amoeboid cells of a new generation of parasites (Fig. 2, a). Whether or not they undergo any changes when free in the blood plasma is uncertain ; it is probable, however, that they enter the red blood corpuscles almost immediately after their formation. This concludes an account of the asexual cycle of the malarial parasite. The sporulating or rosette body is called a sporocyte, and the young endo-corpuscular parasites are termed amoebulse, or sometimes myxopods. The early intracorpuscular stages of the sexual cycle of the j^arasite in the human body are not so fully understood. If, however, the blood of a patient suffering from benign tertian or quartan fever be examined during the apy- rexial period, certain pigmented spherical bodies will be found. These closely resemble in ap- pearance the advanced forms of the asexual cycle, but differ from them in that while in the human body they never proceed to sporulation (see Fig. 2, h and i). On staining also they differ in the amount and in the arrangement of their chromatin or nuclear matter. In fresh specimens it will be noticed that some of these spheres possess pigment which is in active motion. If such parasites be watched for a time (generally within a few minutes after the blood has been taken from the body) suddenly one or more flagella are shot out (Fig. 2, k). These filaments possess a rapid, vibratory, and lashing movement. Such is their activity, that if it were not for the agitation they produce in the neighbouring red corpuscles they would be difficult to see. This movement continues for a considerable time—occasionally for an hour, or even longer. As it diminishes the flagella are seen to be about four or five times the length of the diameter of a red corpuscle. They are colourless, and sometimes bulbous at the free extremity, or beaded at some points throughout their continuity (see Fig. 2, k). After exflagellation has taken place the pig- ment, which never enters the flagella, becomes quiescent. These flagellating spheres are hyaline. Certain other spheres will also be observed which do not flagellate. They are somewhat larger than the hyaline spheres, their pigment is less active and arranged in a ring form, and their protoplasm is somewhat granular (see Fig. 2, i). These two varieties of spheres, on accoimt of their sexual nature, are called gametocytes, or gametes. The flagellating hyaline spheres are called micro-gametocytes, the flagella themselves, which are the male elements, being called micro- gametes. The non-flagellating granular spheres, representing the female elements, are called macro-gametocytes; they contain only one ele- ment, which is called the macro-gamete. If the blood of patients who have recently suffered from a malignant malarial infection be examined, in a certain proportion of cases the gametes peculiar to this particular form of in- fection will be found. These are the well-known crescent bodies (Plate II., Fig. 28). Crescent bodies are of special interest, because they were one of the forms of the malarial parasite which first arrested Laveran's attention, and also be- cause of the subsequent speculation and dis- cussion that arose regarding their nature and place in the life-history of the parasite. There is still some doubt as to the exact origin of the crescent body. Mannaberg, as far back as 1892, maintained that they were derived from the conjugation of two ordinary amoebulte, and he stated that he had frequently observed speci- mens which strongly supported his view. Re- cently, Bastianelli and Bignami, by examining the bone-marrow of fatal cases of pernicious malaria shortly after death, say they have succeeded in recognising the young forms from which the crescents are derived. They say that these forms resemble very closely the ordinary amoebula3; at the earliest stages of their growth they are somewhat smaller, how-Plate I.—Benign tertiim x 1000, stained with carbol thionin. Microphotographs by Dr. H. Spitta, taken from the author's preparations. A, Amoebula, six hours old; B, amcebula, twenty hours old; C, amoebula, thirty-six hours old ; D, sporooyte (rosette body), forty-eight hours old ; F, sporocyte broken up, showing free spores ; F, gametocytes. Vol. VI. To face page 120.MALARIA 121 ever, than the ordinary amcebulse, and a clear unstained nucleus cannot be demonstrated in them. The more advanced forms can be more readily recognised by the character and dis- position of their pigment, by the smaller amount of chromatin matter, and by the somewhat different staining affinities of the protoplasm. These bodies gradually assume a crescentic shape, and come to fill, almost entirely, the red cell in which they are developed. In peripheral blood these immature forms of the crescent have not, up to the present, been recognised with certainty; here only the adult forms are found. In freshly-drawn blood they are beautifully shaped semilunes, about 8 /x or 9 in length, possessing a well-defined outline, and consisting of colourless hyaline protoplasm, in the centre of which is situated the characteristic pigment. This is black, and in short needle-shaped rods, and in many instances is arranged as a ring around the nucleus. The red cell can usually be seen surrounding the crescent. Its proto- plasm has become almost completely decolorised, and, for the most part, lies in the concavity of the crescent like the arc of a bow. On the convexity of the crescent it is found as a thin, almost invisible layer. Properly stained speci- mens demonstrate these points very clearly. The crescent bodies, after they have been re- moved from the human body, undergo remark- able changes, which can be readily watched in an ordinary fresh blood preparation. The crescent first begins to lose its elegant shape, becoming thicker, more squat, then kidney shaped, and then oval, and finally spherical (see coloured Plate II., Figs. 29, 30, 31). It will be observed that, just as was the case with the gametes of the benign malarial parasites, some of the spheres flagellate and some do not, the former being the micro-gametocytes and the latter the macro-gametocytes. Bastianelli and Bignami have succeeded in distinguishing the male from the female crescents. On staining by the E-omanowsky method the protoplasm of the male crescent is stained a pale blue, and the nucleus is seen to contain four or five little chromosomes which stain an intense carmine colour. The protoplasm of the female crescent stains a deeper blue, and the nucleus contains only one, occasionally two, masses of chromatin. I have been able to confirm these observations. This method of staining also shows very clearly the structure of the flagella. They each consist of a tube of protoplasm, containing in their centre a delicate filament of chromatin. The protoplasm stains blue, the chromatin a beautiful lilac carmine. The chromosomes, which in the crescent were centrally placed. before flagellation occurs make their way to the periphery of the sphere ; a process of protoplasm is then protruded, and into this the chromatin matter passes. The Mosquito.—As it is only recently that the mosquito has become an object of special interest to the medical practitioner, it will be well to give a brief account of its life-history. Fig. 3.—Ova of Culex in characteristic boat-shaped mass. anatomy, and habits before proceeding to com- plete the description of the sexual or mosquito phase of the malarial parasite. Mosquitoes, or gnats, are found practically everywhere. They belong to the natural order diptera, family Culicidse. There are twelve genera in this family, but, so far as we know at present, only two are of importance from a medical point of view, namely, the genus Culex and the genus Ano- pheles. Only the imago, or mature insect, is aerial. In the outer stages of its existence, name- ly, as ovum, larva, and pupa, the mos- quito is aquatic in habits. The ova look like little shiny black specks, and under a lens are seen to be of an elongated oval shape, with one end of the oval more pointed than the other. When grouped together they resemble little specks of soot float- ing on the surface of the water. Most species of Culex lay their ova in boat-shaped masses (Fig. 3).i In Anopheles, on the other hand, there is no such definite grouping. The larvcE hatch out on the first or second day by escaping through the lower and thicker end of the ovum. They are active little bodies, with a disproportionately large head and thorax. ' Culex tmniatus, a somewhat widely distributed species, is a striking exception, the eggs being separate and horizontal. Fig. 4.—Larva of Culex.MALARIA 122 When newly hatched, on account of their trans- parency and small size, they can only just be seen with the naked eye, but they grow rapidly and soon become darker in colour and more visible. The larvse of Culex swim about actively, coming to the surface of the water at short intervals to breathe. They feed greedily on any organic matter which may be present in the water. The respiratory tubes open into an elongated, dilated syphon tube situated at the caudal extremity, and the larvse when breathing hang from the surface of the water with their tails uppermost, and their bodies almost at right angles to the surface (Fig. 4). The length of the larval stage varies considerably according to circumstances. It is prolonged if the condi- tions be unfavourable for the larvae; if favourable, it is shorter. The larvae having moulted three or four times pass into the pupa or nymphal stage, usually in warm weather, within from six to eight days. The pupa resembles somewhat a note of interrogation in shape, the head and immature wings being doubled up under the thorax (Fig. 5). It is much less active than the Fig. 5.—Pupa of Culex. larvse, and when it rises to the surface it does so by means of a lashing up and down motion of the tail. It does not exhibit the eel-like motion of the larvae. It breathes by two trumpet-shaped respiratory tubes placed on either side of the thorax. These can be readily seen as the pupa floats on the water. After two or three days the pupal stage is terminated by the escape of the imago from its puparium or pupa case through a T-shaped opening on the dorsal surface. The newly-born mosquito balances itself on the puparium for a few moments in order that the chitinous covering of the wings may harden, and then it flies away. The imago, like that of other diptera, has a head, thorax, and abdomen, and its outer skeletal structure consists of chitinous material. The Culicidae are characterised by their well- developed and elongated jaws, which are specially adapted for piercing and sucking. The wings are scaly, and have four main nervures or ribs. Arising from the anterior aspect of the head are the oral appendages, which together form the proboscis or sucker. Placed on either side of the proboscis are the palpi and antennae. The proboscis is made up of a number of elements, the most massive and prominent of which is the labium. This consists of a thick, membranous, scaly sheath, which is concave on its upper surface, forming a deep groove in which the other oral elements lie. The labium is expanded at its free extremity into two olive-shaped bodies called labellae. The remaining parts of the proboscis consist of epipharynx or labrum, and hypopharynx, which, when approximated, form a closed tube up which the blood flows when the proboscis is in use. Besides these organs, and lying under them, there are two pairs of long slender lancets—the maxilla? and mandibles respectively. This description applies to the female only. The mouth organs of the male are rudimentary, and unadapted for piercing the skin. When the mosquito bites the soft membranous labium is forced back, forming a sort of loop. The piercing organs are thus exposed, and together with the epipharynx and hypopharynx enter the skin. The palpi are placed on either side of the proboscis. Their length and number of seg- ments form an important feature in distinguish- ing Culex from Anopheles. When the mosquito bites, the palpi are elevated in such a way that they do not interfere with haustellation. The antennae are made up of fourteen segments; in the male they are plumose, but in the female only a single whorl of short hairs is given off" at the base of each joint (see Figs. 13 and 14). The antennae are regarded as organs of hearing, and possibly of smell, the supposed auditory ganglion being situated in the proximal segment. The mosquito possesses two large compound eyes. Its vision, however, is by no means acute. Grassi believes that it is unable to dis- tinguish objects more than a few centimetres away. The sense of smell, and possibly the sense of taste, on the other hand, are much more highly developed. It can certainly scent its prey at a distance of several feet. The thorax consists of three segments—the prothorax, mesothorax, and metathorax re- spectively : the mesothorax being the largest and most prominent. The salivary glands are placed in the prothorax, one on either side. Each consists of three lobes, a middle and two lateral. The middle lobe is smaller, and the protoplasm of its cells is more finely granular and stains more deeply than that of the other lobes. This lobe was formerly believed to beMALARIA 123 a veneno-salivary gland (Fig. 15, h). A duct arises from each gland, and as they pass for- ward the two unite to form the common salivary duct, which enters the proboscis at the base of the hypopharynx. The malarial sporozoites are found chiefly in the middle lobe. The abdomen has nine segments, and contains part of the alimentary canal, the dorsal blood- vessel, the neural cord, and the organs of generation. The alimentary canal consists of pharynx, oesophagus, middle intestine, large intestine, and rectum. It is in the wall of the middle intestine (stomach so-called) that the malarial parasite passes through its various table juices. It is possible that this is their usual food, blood-sucking being more or less an acquired habit. When a mosquito bites, before commencing to suck blood, it injects some of its saliva so as to promote a flow of blood to the bitten spot, or to prevent coagulation which would other- wise be a hindrance in haustellation. This saliva acts as a powerful irritant to most individuals, but the irritation is less if the mosquito be allowed to suck for some time than if it sucks for a few seconds only; it is thought from this that most of the saliva is taken up again with the blood. Probably the FIG. 6.—Ovaof ^rii a, A. claviger; b, A. bifurcatus. ¥ia. 7.—Larva of Anopheles. stages of development. This structure has three coats, namely, an outer fibrous, a middle muscular, and an inner modified epithelial. The muscular fibres of the middle coat are arranged in transverse, oblique, and longitudinal layers. Mosquitoes are for the most part nocturnal in habit. In the day time they seek out cool, calm, and shady spots, where they rest, coming out to feed and lay their eggs after sunset. Although this is the rule, on cloudy days, and in dense forests into which the sun does not penetrate, mosquitoes are often active and bite freely. 1 The female alone is the blood-sucker, but she, as well as the male, can live on vege- th f mosquitoes undoubtedly habitually bite during saliva is necessary for the digestion of the blood in the stomach of the mosquito. After a full meal, the insect is sluggish, torpid, and dis- inclined to fly. Contrary to what was formerly the popular belief the mosquito feeds many times during its existence. The life of a mosquito varies in length, an average length being from thirty to fifty days ; the males are shorter lived than the females. In places where there is a cold season a certain number of impregnated females hybernate in sheltered spots, such as cellars, caverns, and in the dark corners of houses and outhouses, and in this way the continuity of the species from year to year is ensured. Mosquitoes can be bred in captivity without difficulty. All that is required is a suitable124 MALARIA cage containing water and some fresh fruit, such as banana, etc. They should be sheltered from bright light and kept at a temperature, as far as possible, similar to that which they have been accustomed to. I have noticed that mosquitoes whose larvte had been sent from Durban, South Africa, required a temperature of 80° F., whereas mosquitoes bred from larvse Fig. 8.—Pupa of Anopheles. found in the marshes near the Royal Albert Dock, London, thrived better at a temperature of 65° F. The larvse thrive extremely well on uncooked rice with the addition of a small amount of algse. No film should be allowed to form on the surface of the water as it interferes with the respiration of the larvae and pupae. Fia. 9.—Restini? attitude of Culex. (After Waterlioiise.) So far as is known only one genus of Culicidae —Anopheles (avo<^eXrjs, harmful)—harbours the human malarial parasite, and serves as its de- finitive host. It comes to be a matter of the highest importance, therefore, to be able to recognise this dangerous insect both in its mature and immature forms. Mosquitoes can be most easily destroyed when in the aquatic stage of their existence. It is particularly important, therefore, to know the distinctive features of the Anopheles at this stage. It has chiefly to be distinguished from Culex. The two genera differ in their habits and in their likes and dislikes. Culex, for the most part, is domestic; it frequents houses and outhouses, and likes to breed near dwellings in shallow artificial collections of water, such as may be found in tanks, flower-pots, broken bottles, dis- used kitchen utensils, etc., or in the little muddy pools which may form in the footprints of cattle after rain. Anopheles, on the other hand, is more rural; it breeds, as a rule, in natural and permanent collections of water, preferably in small sluggish streams containing algae and free from fish, or in pools in rice-fields or other irrigated lands. Unlike Culex the Ano- pheles affects the shallow edges of deep water. The eggs are in short ribbons, or in star-shaped or irregular masses (Fig. 6, a), and are deposited on any stick or leaf that happens to be floating on the water. They are loosely joined together, clinging to the twig or leaf for support, and they lie with their long axes parallel with the surface of the water. They are quite unlike the dense so-called boat-shaped masses of most of the genus Culex. Some species of Anopheles may be recognised by the arrangement of their ova; for example, those of A. bifurcatus are laid in star-shaped masses (Fig. 6, b), those of A. daviger in short ribbons (Fig. 6, a). The larvae of Anopheles are much less active than those of Culex; they can usually be seen lying on the surface of the water in a horizontal position feeding, but if disturbed they dart away rapidly, usually by a backward mo- tion of the caudal extremity. As it has already been stated, the larva of Culex wriggle to the surface to breathe, with the tail uppermost, resting there in an almost vertical position. This peculiarity in the position of the larvae of C^dex is explained by the relatively great length of the respiratory syphon which is situated at the caudal ex- tremity, and which receives the terminations of the two respiratory tubes (see Fig. 4). The corresponding respira- tory tubes in Anopheles ter- minate (without any respira- tory syphon) in two small openings on the dorsal surface of the eighth abdominal segment (see Fig. 7). The larvae of Anopheles are somewhat smaller and darker than those of most species of Culex. At the pupal stage Anopheles can be distinguished from Culex; it is narrower, and its respiratory tubes are short and ear-shaped (Fig. 8) ; in Culex they are long and tubular (Fig. 6).MALARIA 125 The full-grown Anopheles is a more graceful insect than Culex; its thorax and body are i'lG. lu.—Resting attitude of Anopheles. (After Waterhouse.) more slender and its legs more delicate (see Figs. 11 and 12). Ross noticed in India that Fig. 11.—Female Anopheles. Anopheles, when stationary, has its body nearly at right angles to the surface upon which it rests; whereas Culex lies with its body (see Figs. 9 and 10) parallel to its resting-place. This point of distinction, unfortunately, does not hold good for all species of Anopheles. Professor Guiteras of Havannah, Dr Sambon, and others, have observed that A. claviger— by far the most widely dis- tributed European species of Anopheles—does not assume the attitude described by Ross, but hangs with its body more nearly parallel to the surface. A. pseudopictus and A. cosfalis, on the other hand, undoubtedly do rest in the manner described by Ross. A more reliable point of dis- tinction between the two genera, and one that has also been noticed by Waterhouse, is that whereas Culex, when at rest, has a hunch- back appearance. Anopheles rests with its pro- boscis, head, thorax, and abdomen in one straight line (see Figs. 9 and 10). Most species of Anopheles have spotted wings (see Fig. 11). There are five out of the fifty-two species described with un- spotted wings. Some species (A. cosfalis, A. pseudopictus, and A. superpictus) have the spots, or rather bars, along the anterior margin of the wing (Fig. 11); others {A. claviger) have them on the upper surface. The palpi, in both sexes of Anopheles, are nearly as long as the proboscis and consist of five segments. In the male Culex the palpi are long, but in the female they are short, consisting of three segments only (see Fig. 12). The males of either genus can be readily distin- guished by the naked eye from the female by their feathery antennae. The terminal extremities of the palpi in the male Anopheles are bulbous or spatulate (Fig. 14). There is only one other genus of mosquito, the species of which have long palpi in both sexes, namely, the Megarhina. It is, however, unlike Ano- pheles in every other respect, being a large forest mosquito with brilliant colouring and unspotted wings. It is hardly ever known to bite man. The limited distribution of Anopheles is possibly accounted for by the fastidious- ness which it displays in selecting its breeding-place. Although it generally affects natural collections of water, as already remarked, yet, like other forms of animal life, it can within certain limits adapt itself to circumstances. I have observed, for instance, A. claviger in the Roman Campagna breeding freely in stagnant and foulMALARIA 126 water, in which were found also larvae of Culex. Although Culex is not a malaria-bearing mosquito, it must be remembered that it may serve as the intermediate host of Filaria FIO. 12.—Female Culex. nocturna, and is therefore a source of danger in places where that blood parasite occurs. The Mosquito Cycle of the Malaria Parasite.— A number of Anopheles, which have been bred in captivity, and protected from every source of Fig. 13.—Head of female Anopheles. infection, are made to bite an individual whose blood is known to contain gametocytes—for example, malarial crescents. The mosquitoes are then killed at short intervals and examined. The following changes may be seen :— If one be killed a few minutes after haustella- tion, and the blood contained in the middle intestine examined, certain phenomena already described will be observed, namely, the change of the crescents into oval bodies, and then into flagellating and non-flagellating spheres. The next step in development in human malaria has been inferred from an- alogy. In pigeons and certain other birds infected with Halteridium, the flagella may be seen to break away from the hyaline spheres and approach non-flagellating granular spheres. The latter, presently, pro- trude a small bud-like process, at which point a flagellum, straight- ening itself and becoming rigid, and attacking as it were the sphere, suddenly eff'ects an entrance. The flagellum at first causes some agita- tion of the contents of the sphere; the disturbance, however, soon sub- sides. Not more than one flagel- lum can gain an entrance into any given granular sphere. After a few minutes the now fertilised sphere becomes elongated and pointed at one extremity ; the pigment which it contains collects at the broader end, and the little body becomes actively motile. It exhibits con- siderable power of penetration, piercing any red cell that it may encounter. This body is called the travelling vermicule or zygote (see Fig. 15, a); in Halteridium it is shaped like a broad spear- head. To return to human malaria, stained specimens of infected Anopheles have been pre- pared, which show elongated bodies shaped like a flat nail, near to and in the epithelial coating of the wall of the middle intestine, and which were evi- dently passing to- wards the deeper layers. These were doubtless the tra- velling vermicules of human malaria. If infected mosqui- toes be killed on the second day after haustellation, and the wall of the middle intestine be examined, pig- mented spheres about 7 yu, to 8 /X Fig. 14.—Head of male Anopheles. in diameter will be seen lying between the muscular fibres. If infected mosquitoes be examined on subsequent and suc- cessive days the further changes in the zygote can be traced (see Fig. 15, b). It increases rapidly in size; tiny masses of chromatin from the fragmented nucleus become diff"used in itsMALARIA 127 substance ; around them the protoplasm arranges itself in such a way as to form a number of small spheres (see Fig. 15, c). In each of these spheres secondary spherules form, each having its little mass of chromatin. Eventually new spheres cease to develop, and chromatin granules become arranged around the periphery of the spheres already formed. These chromatin granules, covered with a layer of pro- toplasm, develop into buds, which elongating cover the surface of the spheres, giv- ing them a hedgehog ap- pearance (see Fig. 15, d). Finally the spheres dis- appear, leaving only elon- gated sickle-shaped bodies (see Fig. 15, e). During this process of development the zygote increases enor- mously in size, attaining a diameter of 40 /x to 60 /i.; a well-defined capsule forms around it, and protrudes into the body cavity from the outer surface of the middle intestine as a sort of wart or hernia. The sickle-shaped bodies, usu- ally in radially disposed groups, distend the capsule. Finally, apparently from over-distension, the capsule ruptures and the sickle- shaped bodies are discharg- ed into the body cavity of the mosquito, and are carried by the body fluid to the salivary glands, where they are filtered out by the cells of the middle lobes. These sickle-shaped bodies are variously called sporo- zoites, blasts, flagellulae, or filiform young (Ray Lan- kester) ; they are believed to be non-motile, about 14 /x in length, and possess one or two masses of nuclear matter in their centre. In sections of the salivary gland they may be seen in enormous numbers in the middle lobe, for the most part crowding the cells around the duct, and in the duct itself as far as the proboscis (see Fig. 15, g). The secondary spheres that develop in the zygotes are called zygotomeres, and when these have developed their elongated buds they are called blasto- phores. The grains of pigment carried by the zygotes persist, and can be seen up to the time of rupture of the capsule. The series128 MALARIA of changes described occupies a period vary- ing between six to ten days or more, de- pending on temperature and possibly on other conditions. The most favourable temperature for development is 30° C.; below 16° C. the process is suspended. The differences between the quartan, benign tertian, and the malignant parasites in the mosquito are very slight. Bastianelli and Bignami, however, state that they can distinguish the benign tertian from the malignant—(1) by the character of the pigment; (2) by the number and size of the chromatin masses; (3) by the number and arrangement of the sporozoites. The quartan zygote cannot be distinguished from that of the benign tertian parasite. In a number of cases certain black or brown sausage-shaped bodies—Ross's " black spores " —are to be found in the empty capsules of ruptured zygotes (see Fig. 15, /). The exact nature of these bodies is not known, but it has been supposed that they may be either resting spores or an extraneous fungus. Ross has suggested that they may be the means by which the Anopheles larvse become infected. The Italians have confirmed Ross's observations regarding the presence of these bodies, but, like him, have been unable to elucidate their true nature. These observers are inclined to regard them as involution or residual bodies derived from the zygote. The Demonstration of the Malarial Para- site IN Human Blood.—This is not a difficult matter, but some amount of experience is necessary before the parasites can be recognised with confidence, more especially in the case of the non-pigmented amcebulse. Ease and rapidity in diagnosis by blood examinations depend in great measure on the care taken in making pre- parations. The student of malariology, and indeed all who practise in malarious countries, should spare no pains in order to become familiar with the necessary technique. Anyone who is not thoroughly familiar with the microscopical appearance of normal blood should, before attempting the diagnosis of malaria by the microscope, familiarise himself with the differ- ences in colour, size, and shape of the red cells, and learn to recognise crenations, vacuoles, and fissures, and to distinguish the different varieties of leucocytes. This affords good opportiuiities for practising technique, and it will obviate subsequent errors when dealing with malarial blood. A good microscope is essential, a sub- stage condenser and ^-inch and ■i.-inch oil im- mersion objectives are necessary. A mechanical stage adds to the ease and rapidity with which a preparation may be reviewed. Blood may be examined for malaria parasites either in the fresh unstained state, or by means of stained preparations. On the whole, the former method of examination is to be preferred : more can be learnt by observing the living parasite, and mistakes are less likely to be made. When the blood examination has to be deferred for some hours stained preparations must be employed; the anatomical features of the organism are also brought out better by this means. In cases of doubt, it is well to employ both methods. In making fresh preparations the cover-glasses and slides must be thoroughly cleansed. The former are best cleansed by boiling them in a weak solution of bi-chromate of potash, and then washing them in running water, finally trans- ferring to methylated spirit, or to a mixture of absolute alcohol and ether. Or they may be boiled in soda solution, washed in tap water, and afterwards dipped in strong sulphuric acid, and washed in running water as before. These more elaborate cleansing processes are not absolutely necessary, but the slides should be kept in methylated spirit. Neither the cover- glasses nor the slides need be sterilised. Three or four of each are carefully dried (handling them as little as possible) and polished with a soft linen cloth. They should then be covered over. One of the patient's fingers is next cleaned with spirit, and if he is sweating the rest of the hand should be covered with a handkerchief. An ordinary needle, after being sterilised in the flame of a spirit-lamp, is used to prick the palmar surface of the finger-tip. The first drop of blood which issues should be wiped off; a second droplet is then squeezed out—it should be about the size of a pin's head. The cover-glass is then lowered so that it just touches the drop without touching the finger. The chai-ged cover-glass is then allowed to fall gently on to a slide; after a few seconds, and when the blood has spread out in a fine film, the preparation should be ringed with vaseline. On holding the slide up to the light, if properly prepared, Newton's iridescent rings will be seen, indicating that the blood has run out into an exceedingly thin layer. The preparation is a failure if these coloured rings cannot be seen, and another one should be made ; it is waste of time to examine bad preparations. When a number of specimens are required it is a good plan to ligature the finger loosely with a hand- kerchief : a more plentiful supply of blood is then obtained. A von Graefe's knife may be substituted for the needle—it causes less pain. The blood can be obtained from the lobe of the ear if preferred, or from the ball of the great toe; the latter situation can often with advan- tage be made use of when dealing with young children. The preparation should first be examined with the \ objective, when, commencing from within outwards, the following arrangement of the red corpuscles can usually be seen. In the centre of the field there will be :— (1) The empty zone, which contains few or no corpuscles; (2) the scattered zone, which129 MALARIA contains a few flattened or distorted corpuscles ; (3) the single-layer zone, in which the red corpuscles are seen to be arranged in close ap- position to one another, edge to edge, but not overlapping; (4) the heaped-up zone, in which the red corpuscles overlap one another ; (5) the zone of rouleaux; (6) the zone of free hsemo- globin in which the blood has become lakey. The zones that should be used for studying the malarial parasite are the single-layer, and the heaped-up zones of free haemoglobin. The former is more generally useful, but the latter is a good one for observing the evolution of the flagella from the micro-gametocytes. A field in the single-layer zone having been selected, the oil immersion lens is substituted for the ^ ob- jective. The interior of every red cell should be then carefully scrutinised; field after field should be examined. Unless at least half an hour has been spent over the specimen, a nega- tive diagnosis cannot be considered as satisfac- tory. Melanin granules in the leucocytes should be looked for, because these also afford evidence of recent malarial infection. Whilst the blood preparation is being reviewed in this way, any abnormality other than malarial should be noted, such as evidence of anaemia, leucocytosis, filarise, bacteria, excess of fibrin, etc., for in the absence of malaria a clue to diagnosis may be found in the presence or absence of these abnormalities. A well-prepared specimen will keep from six to twelve hours; after this time it is useless, as the red cells become much crenated, or the blood may become lakey. Some observers do not consider it necessary to ring the cover-glass with vaseline ; but there is no doubt that the preparation keeps longer by excluding the air, and by preventing over-compression of the blood cells from evaporation. For the stained preparations dry blood films must be made. It is a matter of choice whether they be made on cover-glasses or on slides. The writer usually makes them on slides; but for the Romanowsky, and for some of the other special methods of staining, it is better to use films made on cover-glasses. The technique is as follows :—Clean a sufficient number of slides, or cover-glasses, as the case may be; cleanse and prick the finger in the way described for making the fresh preparations, taking, however, a rather larger drop of blood. Cut some strips of gutta- percha tissue about 2 inches long and f inch wide, and have them in readiness. Apply one of these strips so that it becomes charged with blood close to the free edge ; lay this on a slide, wet surface downwards, holding it by the uncharged end, wait a second or two so that the blood may settle on the slide, and then with a rather slow and jerky movement of the hand draw it along the glass. In this layer a beauti- fully thin film may be made with the red corpuscles arranged in a single layer. The VOL. VI same piece of gutta-percha, as long as it re- mains smooth and free from crinkles, may be used for as many films as may be required. In some tropical countries gutta-percha tissue does not keep ; in this case cigarette papers, or the smooth edge of writing-paper, may be used, strips being cut of suitable size. Another good method is as follows:—Take either a square or an oblong cover-glass; charge one edge of it with blood, and bring it in contact with a slide so that it rests at about an angle of 45°; wait as before so that the blood may run on to the slide, and then push the cover-glass somewhat rapidly along the slide; as it passes over the slide it leaves behind it an extremely thin and regular film. Care must be taken to use only a very small quantity of blood when employing this last method. The cover-glass films may be made by the ordinary two cover-glass method, but this is not to be recommended for malarial blood pre- parations. Mr. W. C. Pakes has invented a holder for cover-glasses, so that smears may be made with gutta-percha tissue in the same way as is done on slides. It is intended for oblong cover-glasses 1^ inches by | inch in size. The films having been made by one of these methods, and having been air dried, next re- quire to be fixed. This may be done by im- mersing them in absolute alcohol, or in equal parts of absolute alcohol and ether, for not less than ten minutes. They may also be fixed by heating them for one hour at a temperature of from 110° C. to 120° C. The first method is usually employed. When the fixing fluid has evaporated the film is ready to stain. The specimen may be single stained or double stained. For ordinary clinical purposes the former is recommended because it is simpler and more reliable. There are many ways of staining malarial blood. Four methods which give good results in the writer's hands will be described ; two of these are single stains, and two are double stains :— I. Borax-Methylene Blue Formula. Best medicinal methylene blue 2 per cent. Borax ..... 5 ,, Distilled water . . .93 ,, Dissolve. It improves by keeping, and it should be filtered before use. The specimen should be stained for from thirty to fifty seconds; the shorter time suffices when using stains that have been kept some time. Wash well in tap water, dry, and mount in xylol- canada balsam. The nuclei of the leucocytes are stained a deep blue, the protoplasm of the parasite stains a lighter blue, and the nucleolus an intense blue. The red corpuscles are stained faintly. 9130 MALARIA II. Cariol-Thionin Formula. Thionin blue . . .1-5 grammes. Absolute alcohol . .10 c.cs. Aqueous solution of carbolic acid .... 5%—100 c.cs. Dissolve. It should be kept some days and filtered before use. It requires to be diluted with three parts of distilled water. Stain the specimen for ten minutes, wash, dry, and mount in xylol-canada balsam. The protoplasm of the parasite stains a purple colour, and the red corpuscles a pale greenish-blue, so that a good conti'ast is obtained. The nucleolus of the parasite stains intensely. III. RomanowsJcy Method Formula. Aqueous solution of pure medi- cinal methylene blue . . 10%—4 c.cs. Aqueous solution of eosin (red shade) .... 1%—10 c.cs. This method gives excellent results. It re- quires care, and it is not recommended for ordinary clinical purposes on account of the time that the staining takes. Both stains should be kept for one day and filtered before use. Add 10 c.cs. of the eosin solution to 4 c.cs. of the methylene blue solution. Stir them to- gether for five minutes, when a dense copious precipitate forms. This must not be filtered out. Fix a cover-glass blood film in absolute alcohol in the usual way. Place it in a watch- glass, blood surface downwards. Pour the stain on to it, and see that the cover-glass is completely covered. The staining takes from three-quarters of an hour to two hours. Wash thoroughly in a stream of distilled water. Re- move any excess of water from the specimen by applying a piece of blotting-paper to the edges of cover-glass. Dip it three or four times in a jar of absolute alcohol, and then three or four times into a second jar of alcohol. Finally, clear in xylol and mount in xylol-canada balsam. The red corpuscles are stained a bright red, and the parasites and nuclei of the leucocytes a blue colour. A third chromatin stain is produced by the special proportion of methylene blue to eosin used, which stains the nucleolar matter of the parasites a beautifully deep carmine colour.^ Laveran has recently introduced a modification of this method. See Instructions a Vusage, des medecins, des naturalists, et des voyageurs, par R. Blanchard. IV. Louis Jenner's Staining and Fixing Fluid The method of making this stain will be found in the Lancet, 11th February 1899. It can be obtained ready for use in the form of 1 The proper stains for the Romanowsky method may be obtained from Meister Lucius and Bruniug, 51 St. Mary Axe, London. powder. It is prepared by mixing solutions of eosin and methylene blue, collecting the result- ing precipitate, washing it, and finally dissolving in absolute methylic alcohol. The specimens do not require to be fixed before staining. The staining takes from four to five minutes. The preparation is then washed thoroughly in dis- tilled water, dried and mounted in the usual way. The parasites and nuclei of the leucocytes stain blue ; the red corpuscles, pink. Methods of Demonstrating the Gametes and Flagellated Bodies.—Malaria is an infectious disease, and it is the gamete cells in the blood which, after passing through a series of changes in the Anopheles, carry the infection from man to man. The individual in whom these bodies are present is a source of danger to his fellows, and in the near future this fact will be so well appreciated that microscopical examination of blood will become as general as the use of clinical thermometers in malarious countries. It must not be forgotten that the gamete cells are found in the blood not only during the period of convalescence, but often long after febrile symptoms have disappeared. It is well to have some ready and rapid method by which these gamete cells can be recognised. The following is a good method :—Prepare and prick the finger in the usual way, squeeze out as large a drop of blood as possible, apply a slide to it and spread out with a needle in a thick layer. Allow the blood to dry in the air, and after fixing in alcohol transfer it to weak acetic acid until the haemoglobin has been dissolved out. Wash in water, and stain by any of the methods above described. The leucocytes and the ma- larial parasites only will be stained. With a little practice the gametes can be recognised with a \ objective. It is not necessary to apply a cover-glass unless a permanent preparation is desired. In ordinary fresh blood preparations the flagella are not, as a rule, evolved from the micro-gametocytes for some time—even an hour or longer. There are two ways in which the evolution can be hastened. One is Marshall's method, which consists in placing a droplet of water, or better, by breathing on the slide before applying the cover-glass. The other is Ross's method, in which the blood is allowed to remain on the finger, exposed to the air for one or two minutes before applying the cover- glass. In practice it is a good plan to combine both of these methods, exflagellation will then occur within a few minutes. It takes place more rapidly with the benign than with the malignant gametes. In order to stain the flagellated bodies the blood must be allowed to remain in a moist chamber for at least twenty minutes, so as to ensure the presence of the flagella. A good moist chamber can be im- provised by cutting a number of holes, 1 inch and ^ inch, in a sheet of stout blotting-paper.131 MALARIA moistening this with water and laying it on a sheet of window-glass or glazed tile. Slides, on which small blood films have been made by spreading with a needle, are then rapidly in- verted before they have time to dry over the holes in the blotting-paper, taking care that the film does not become wet. The slides are re- moved after a period of about half an hour, dried in the air, fixed, and then stained by the Romanowsky method, or by immersing them in carbol fuchsin (1 in 4) from four to six hours. The former method brings out the chromatin filaments in the flagella. Fallacies.—When commencing the study of malarial blood there are certain causes of fallacy which must be guarded against. Those met with in fresh blood are the following : vacuoles, crenations, fissures, buckling of corpuscles, and dirt. The greater the care and skill with which the preparations are made the less frequently will these conditions be met with. Vacuoles are clear spaces containing fluid existing in the stroma of the red corpuscles ; they often exhibit a slow pulsating movement, but never true amoeboid motion. Inasmuch as they occupy the whole thickness of the red cell they possess a definite and sharp outline, and their refraction index differs considerably from that of the malaria parasite. Sometimes they assume an eye form, not unfrequently with a speck of haemoglobin at the centre. They never contain pigment, do not cause alteration in the size of the red cell, and do not stain. Crenations, when on the upper surface of the red cell, at the first glance may be mistaken for a malarial parasite, but the presence of other crenations around the edge of the corpuscle will at once reveal their nature. It is a good rule never to attempt to diagnose malarial parasites when they are in crenated or damaged corpuscles. Buckling, that is to say, a curling up of the edge of a red corpuscle, is recognised by the absence of amoeboid movement, by the absence of pigment, and by the asymmetry of the red cell. Fissures and cracks have a very distinct outline and do nor alter in shape. Dirt may occasionally be taken for pigment of malarial origin. Care in the preparation of the specimen will obviate this source of error. A certain pro- portion of the mononuclear leucocytes in normal blood contain in their protoplasm one or two minute, and, when in accurate focus, intensely black granules. These resemble somewhat closely melanin granviles; their significance is unknown (Manson). The dancing granules, or blood dust, which are frequently seen in normal blood preparations, and which are derived from the protoplasm of disintegrated leucocytes, are often mistaken for free malarial spores. Blood platlets are also similarly mistaken. It is sufficient to bear in mind that these elements occur in normal blood to avoid such sources of error. Fallacies in stained preparations are chiefly the presence of dirt and deposit from the stain. With a little care a mistake cannot be made ; by staining, the anatomical features of the parasite are always evident, and it pos- sesses a very definite afiinity for stains. All stains should be filtered at the time of using. The Demonstration of the Malarial Parasite in the Mosquito.—Mosquitoes may be examined in the fresh state or by means of permanent preparations, either stained or un- stained. For examination in the fresh state the mosquito must have been recently killed. The wings and legs having been removed, it is placed under a dissecting microscope in a few drops of a mixture of formalin 2 per cent and salt solution 5 per cent. The head is now fixed with a needle, and while the prothorax is held with another, they are pulled apart; stretching between them a long white tube can generally be seen—this is the sucking tube. The salivary glands usually remain in the thorax, but by employing a little pressure, first on one side of the prothorax and then on the other side, they can be exposed. Their tripartite structure can be readily recognised ; occasionally the glands are attached to the head. The head and body are now discarded and a cover-glass placed on the salivary glands. It is necessary to cut off most of the light to see the sporozoites, using first the low powers and subsequently yV - inch objective. The sporozoites may be seen in enormous numbers in the cells of the middle lobe. The intestinal canal can be removed by a somewhat similar manipulation, the thorax being fixed with one needle; the two terminal segments of the abdomen are partially detached with the other, at the same time slight traction being exercised. In this way most of the intestinal tubes, with the five Malpighian tubes attached, can be obtained for microscopical examination. Should it contain blood, this must be washed out with salt solution; it is well to irrigate in any case, as by washing away the epithelial covering the zygotes are more readily seen. In order to make good sections it is necessary to embed the mosquito in celloidin. The freshly killed insect should be placed successively in methylated spirit, absolute alcohol, alcohol and ether, thin celloidin, and thick celloidin; one day is sufficient for each fluid with the exception of the thin celloidin, in which it should remain for two days. The sections may be mounted unstained, or stained with various dyes—picro-carmine and haemo- toxylin give fairly good results. Clinical Manifestations of Malaria When an individual becomes infected with malaria the parasites may, without causing any clinical manifestations, pass directly into a latent state. This apparently occurs when the conditions in the human host are unfavour-132 MALARIA able to the parasite ; what these conditions may be is not known. The question of latency will be referred to again. Period of Incubation. — What much more frequently happens is, that, after a variable period of incubation active clinical symptoms manifest themselves, for, under favourable con- ditions, as soon as the parasite has gained entrance to the body it commences to multiply by the asexual process of reproduction. The multiplication of the germ prior to the occur- rence of clinical manifestations probably takes place in the visceral blood, for examination of peripheral blood during this period is usually negative—at any rate, in the case of primary infections. 1 Considering how recently the life- history of the malarial parasite outside the human body has been worked out, and its mode of entrance to the body ascertained, it is not to be wondei-ed at that exact data regarding the length of the incubation period, under natural conditions, are wanting. Bastianelli, Bignami, and others, have ascertained the length of the incubation period in artificially produced malaria. They injected malarial blood, both subcutaneously and intravenously, into healthy individuals; their experiments gave the following results:— The Incubation Period of Experimental Malaria Maximum. Minimum. Mean. Quartan 15 days 11 days 13 days Benign tertian 12 ,, 6 ,, 10 ,, .^Estivo-autumnal 5 ,, 2 ,, 3 ,, These periods coincide pretty closely with clinical observations. Celli is inclined, never- theless, to think that the periods given are too short, for in some experiments which he performed in connection with malarial im- munity he observed cases of quartan, benign tertian, and ajstivo-autumnal infections in which the incubation periods were respectively 47, 22, and 17 days. In Hanson's two recent cases of inoculation of benign tertian malaria by mosquitoes the incubation period was 14 and 15 days respectively. The length of the incubation period must depend on many factors ; there are four, at least, concerned :— (1) The number of malarial parasites in- oculated. (2) The length of the life-cycle of the parasite. (3) The virulence of the parasite. (4) The inherent power of resistance in the individual. (1) The Number of Malarial Parasites In- oculated.—This must, obviously, be an important factor. In naturally produced infections by 1 Perliai)s what is more probable is tliat the parasites exist in such small numbers that they are not observed. Cases occasionally come under my notice in which five or six specimens are examined before parasites are discovered in the peripheral circulation. means of the mosquito, however, the number must in most cases be small. It has been proved by experiment that even so small an amount of blood as may adhere to the needle of a Pravaz syringe is large enough to produce malarial fever. (2) The Length of the Life-Cycle of the Para- site.—This is also a factor to be considered, for if the same number of quartan and tertian para- sites be injected at the same time, inasmuch as the life-cycle of the tertian is shorter than that of the quartan, the former will increase more rapidly than the latter. It must be remembered, also, that the tertian parasite reproduces itself in greater numbers, as well as more rapidly, than the quartan parasite, the sporocyte of the tertian containing almost double the number of spores. (3) The Virulence of the Malarial Parasite Inoculated.—There is little doubt that not only the various species of the parasite, but also the different strains of the same species, vary in virulence, being analogous in this respect to bacterial infections. The different type of benign or malignant fever which occurs in the same region, and even in the same region in diff'erent years, warrants the conclusion that there is a variation in the virulency of the corresponding species of the parasite. (4) The Inherent Potver of Resistance in the Individual.—Individuals do not all possess the same amount of resistance to malarial infections, and in the same individual the resisting power varies from time to time. It is the common experience of everyone practising in the Tropics, that if two people be exposed to the same in- fluences, one may contract fever while the other escapes. In some cases this may be explained by the fact that mosquitoes prefer to bite some people rather than others, but, more frequently, it is undoubtedly due to an idiosyncrasy on the part of the individual. Periodicity.—The febrile paroxysms of ma- larial fever exhibit either a quotidian, a tertian, or a quartan periodicity; that is to say, fever recurs every twenty-four, forty-eight, or seventy- two hours respectively. Golgi first observed the fact that the febrile paroxysm coincides, in point of time, with the maturation of the para- site. It has already been stated that the de- velopment of the asexual form can be watched by examining the blood in a case of benign tertian fever, and that, just prior to the onset of the fever, the parasites are all found to be at the sporulating stage. The reason why they all mature about the same time, and in regular groups, is a problem that still requires solution. The resolving of this problem will give the clue not only to the cause of malarial periodicity, but will possibly explain the periodicity of other febrile processes. Periodicity may serve the interest of the parasite in some way ; it certainly seems to serve the interest of the human host, for it is those cases in which typical periodicityMALARIA 133 is lost that pernicious symptoms are liable to supervene. Although, as a general rule, all the parasites sporulate at the same time, still a certain number may mature in advance of the others. When the cycle of development of the parasite is shortened, an anticipating type of fever is the result; when delayed, the fever is said to post- pone. The former type of fever is generally met with in aggravated cases of malaria, the latter in cases about to recover. There is also another kind of periodicity in malarial infection, namely, a tendency for the parasites to accumulate in the internal organs during the latter part of their cycle. This is particularly the case in malignant infections. During the earlier part of the cycle the parasites may be found in abundance in the peripheral circulation, whereas just prior to the paroxysm they may be searched for in vain. If, however, the spleen be aspirated they can be found under- going sporulation in that organ and in enormous numbers. This fact should be remembered, because it is the accumulation of parasites in the internal organs which appears to be a prin- cipal cause of pernicious symptoms. The young parasites reappear in the peripheral circulation during the attack of fever. Periodicity of this nature is most marked in the case of malignant infections, less marked in benign tertian, and still less in the quartan fevers. Malaria differs from other febrile processes, not only in possessing the tertian and quartan periodicity, which, when present, is practically characteristic of the disease, but also by the fact that the attack may occur at any hour during the day or night. Statistics show that in rather more than half the number of cases the attack of malaria occurs between midnight and midday. This very rarely happens in other diseases; the period of pyrexia occasion- ally becomes inverted in typhoid fever and tuberculosis, but, speaking generally, attacks of fever setting in during the forenoon in a tropical country are of malarial origin. Benign Tertian Fever.—This is by far the commonest form of malarial infection, particu- larly in subtropical and temperate climates. In a series of a hundred consecutive cases of malaria occurring in sailors from all parts of the world, and admitted to the Seamen's Hospital, Royal Albert Dock, London, this form of malaria occurred nearly twice as frequently as the quartan and malignant combined, thus:— Benign tertian (single and double infec- tions) ...... 59 Malignant . .... 26 Quartan ...... 7 Benign tertian and malignant . . 6 Benign tertian and quartan ... 2 100 Double infection, that is, two generations of the parasite sporulating on alternate days, is a common cause of the double tertian or quotidian type of fever (see Chart IV.); it is rare, how- ever, to meet with more than two generations of the parasite in the same case. Mixed infections are also frequently met with, and thus benign tertian may be combined with quartan or malignant, or with both quartan and malignant. The symptoms may be divided into those occurring in the period of— (1) Prodromata. (2) Febrile paroxysm. (3) Intermission. (4) Convalescence. (1) Prodromata. — Before the onset of the febrile attack there is generally a variable period during which the patient feels languid, out of sorts, and depressed; he may have obscure pains about the limbs and back, in the eyeballs, and in the splenic region. The appetite may be poor and the bowels consti- pated ; occasionally there is some perversion in the senses of taste and smell. He may feel chilly or feverish during some part of the day. In pure single infections most of these symp- toms are complained of on alternate days, and old malarial subjects recognise them as pre- monitory warnings of the coming attack, and are often able to prevent its development by early treatment. Sometimes prodromata are absent, the patient feeling quite well until the fever comes on. (2) Febrile Paroxysm.—The prodromal symp- toms, if present, become aggravated ; the patient feels unfit for work, he yawns and stretches him- self ; headache becomes intense; he begins to feel cold and shivery, especially down the back and in the extremities; the face looks pinched and cyanosed, and gradually rigor sets in. The teeth then chatter, respiration becomes jerky, the voice broken, and the pulse is small and rapid. He covers himself with all the blankets he can find in a vain attempt to gain warmth; there may be vomiting and diarrhoea. The limbs ache, and there may be tinnitus aurium. This stage of rigor is usually well marked in benign tertian fevers, and may last from half an hour to an hour or more. In children the rigor may be badly marked, or it may be replaced by a general convulsion or an attack of vomiting. The temperature, which has been gradually ascending just before the rigor set in, now rapidly rises to 104° F. or to 106° F.; as a rule, however, the fastigium is not reached until the hot stage supervenes. After a time the feeling of intense cold is replaced by flashes of heat; these become more frequent until the cold stage passes into a definite hot stage. The face is now flushed and the eyes injected, the mouth dry and the tongue furred. The skinMALARIA 134 is hot and dry. The patient is restless, com- plains of thirst, and asks to have the bed- clothing removed. In a bad infection there may be wandering—very rarely active delirium or coma. Vomiting, which is generally bilious in character, may still continue as well as diarrhoea. The pains are still complained of. The skin has a slight dusky yellow appearance, which is almost characteristic of malaria; there may be herpes about the lips or nose. The pulse is full and bounding. The spleen is enlarged and the margin, which is generally palpable, is soft and rounded, and usually a little tender. The liver is enlarged to a slight degree. The temperature has now reached its maximum and may be as high as 107° F. ; it is more often between 103° F. and 106° F. This stage per- sists longer than the cold stage, usually from four to five hours. At the end of this time sweating sets in ; it generally begins about the head, but soon becomes general, and often so profuse that the patient becomes drenched and requires a change of bed-clothing. The tempera- ture then begins to fall rapidly and the severe symptoms to abate ; the headache disappears, the pulse becomes soft and diminishes in fre- quency, the mouth becomes moist, and the patient, although a little weak and limp, feels better than before the attack set in. Generally he falls asleep. In children the sweating stage may be altogether absent, or hardly noticeable. (3) The Period of Intei-mission. — This has now set in, and the patient often feels strong enough to resume his work. Temperature re- mains subnormal, but after an interval of forty- eight hours from the onset of the first attack, a second exactly similar attack follows, and if the disease is untreated the attacks continue to recur. In cases which are untreated they tend gradually to diminish in intensity and to post- pone until, finally, spontaneous cessation takes place. Reinfection may occur in malarious countries, or without reinfection the febrile attacks may be indefinitely prolonged or re- peated until they eventuate in cachexia or death. Fortunately, the specific treatment is nearly always available, at least for Europeans. (4) Convalescence.—In recent, uncomplicated and properly treated cases this is not, as a rule, prolonged, the patient's health being re-estab- lished in two or three weeks' time. A certain degree of ana;mia is present, but the blood rapidly regains its former hsemoglobin and cor- puscular value. In benign tertian infections it is only the occurrence of repeated reinfections or relapses that, when improperly treated, leads to marked deterioration of health. The Blood in Benign Tertian Fever.—An ex- amination of the finger-blood at the period of rigor will invariably reveal the presence of the characteristic parasite {Hceniamoaha vivax). The small non-pigmented amcebulai will be seen to he actively amoeboid, constantly changing their shape and position in the red cells; at one moment they may be cruciform (see Plate II., Fig. 1), at another star-shaped, or, if at rest, ring-shaped. Pseudopodia are protruded and retracted. If the case be one of moderate severity, these amoebulBe will be present in con- siderable numbers, being contained in nearly every field. Some of the red cells may contain two parasites, rarely more. If repeated exam- inations be made during the apyrexial period the infected red cells will be observed to have become pale and expanded, and the parasites they contain to have increased in size and acquired fine yellowish, dark brown, or black pigment granules (see Plate II., Fig. 3). To- wards the end of this period the parasites have so grown as to occupy nearly the whole of the red cell, and it may be difficult to distinguish parasite from cell on account of the pallor of the latter (see Plate II., Fig. 4). The pigment will have increased, and will have become coarser in grain and deeper in colour through the aggregation of the separate particles. As the parasite grows, amoeboid movement gradu- ally becomes more sluggish until it finally ceases. On examining the blood just as the temperature is rising, the characteristic sporocytes, or rosette bodies, will be found; and, as described under parasitology, will be found to consist of from fifteen to twenty-three spores surrounding a central mass of pigment (see Plate II., Figs. 5 and 6). The arrangement of these spores has been compared to that of a sunflower. The spores when free are seen to be slightly oval in shape, each, it may be, showing a clear refractile nucleus (see Plate I., Fig. 4). It will be re- membered that these bodies re-enter new red corpuscles and become young amoebulas, thus completing the asexual life-cycle. Besides these, some large, free, and coarsely pigmented spheres will be seen. Such spheres are present during the greater part of the apyrexial period, but more especially during the first half of it. They are the gametocytes or gametes ; formerly, until their true significance and the part they play in the mosqviito cycle had been discovered, re- garded by some as degenerate or sterile bodies. Some of these gametes, if carefully watched, will be foiind after a time to protrude long, thin, and very delicate flagella, usually three or four in number, which break away and swim actively about (see Plate II., Fig. 9). The spheres capable of exflagellation, or micro-gametocytes, can be distingiiished from the non-flagellating spheres, or macro-gametes, by the arrangement and the motility of the pigment which they contain. A certain niunber of the polymorpho- nuclear leucocytes will be found to contain melanin granules, and, in the absence of malarial parasites in the peripheral blood, these afford valuable evidence of a recent malarial attack. The JJrine in Malaria. — During the cold stage, the amount of urine secreted is increased,The Malaria Para51te. Plate II.—Illustrating the evolution of the three species ; Benign tertian, figs. 1 to 9 ; quartan, figs. 10 to 19 ; malignant, figs. 20 to 32. (After Thayer.) Vol. VI., to face page 13i.135 MALARIA and it is passed more frequently; it is scanty and high-coloured during the sweating stage. Albumen is occasionally present in small amount, and then, generally, a few hyaline and granular casts are to be found. Urobilin is increased, and occasionally bilirubin is present, and, as in other febrile states, acidity is increased and specific gravity raised. The elimination of urea is increased, both immediately before and during the paroxysm, falling below normal during the intermission. Ringer discovered the interesting fact that when the fever has been checked by quinine, urea is increased on those days on which the fever is due. Chlorides and uric acid remain practically unaltered ; the former may be increased slightly during the attack. Phos- phates fall markedly during the attack, but increase subsequently. The urine rarely gives the diazo reaction. Quartan Fever.—In most districts this form of malarial infection is less common than the benign tertian, but until systematic examina- tions of the blood in malarious countries become more general it will be impossible to judge of the relative frequency of the different types of malarial fever. Quartan is, probably, more common than is generally supposed. Ross, in the malarial expedition to Sierra Leone in 1899 found it very prevalent during August and September. In Nigeria, West Africa, during 1898 and 1899, 1 saw no cases of quartan malaria. It occurs in the West Indies, in many parts of India, in Italy, and in Southern Europe during the spring months. It is, undoubtedly, relatively to other malarial infections, more commonly met with in temperate climates than in the Tropics. Quartan infections may be single, double, or treble. In single infections there are two clear days of apyrexia ; in double infections there are two days of pyrexia and one day of apyrexia. Treble infection gives rise to a quotidian fever. Quartan may be associated with the benign tertian or malignant parasites, more rarely with both. The fever is characterised by the presence of a distinctive parasite in the blood {Irlmmamoebm malarice) which has a cycle of development lasting seventy-two hours. With this exception the fever it induces differs very little from that of the benign tertian. It may be regarded as being more benign in character than the tertian ; it is obvious that a fever having a seventy-two hour periodicity is less likely to prove harmful than one having a forty-eight hour periodicity. The very fact that it is of a mild character often leads to this fever being neglected, espe- cially in children, and then the insidious relapses and reinfections may gradually bring about a cachexia almost equal in intensity to that pro- duced by the malignant parasite. I recently saw a sad instance of this in a young family of half-caste children from Demerara ; two of them had spleens reaching to the pelvis; they all harboured quartan parasites, were intensely cachectic, but none of them had been receiving any treatment. In this form of malaria, re- lapses are prone to recur many months, or even years, after leaving a malarious country. Quartan fever does not respond so readily to treatment as tertian fever. The Blood in Quartan Fever. — This will show the presence of the characteristic parasite, and its evolution can be traced out by serial examina- tions. The changes that the parasite undergoes are the same as those in benign tertian, but there are certain morphological differences which can be readily observed, and which render diagnosis easy. If an examination be made during, and just after the rigor, small non- pigmented ama3bul8e will be found, and with care can be distinguished from those of the benign tertian parasite even at this early stage. Amoeboid movement is less and the refraction index of the parasite is different; the quartan amoebula is a little darker in colour and more definite in outline. If the examination be re- peated in twelve hours' time these points will be more evident; the amoeboid movement is sluggish and the outline of the parasite clear. It will be noticed also that there is no enlarge- ment of the infected red cell, and that the pigment granules are very coarse in grain, and generally in short rods (see Plate II., Figs. 13 and 14). At a later period the pigment will be seen to collect around the periphery of the parasite; the protoplasm of the infected red cell does not become pale ; if anything it is a little darker than that of the non-infected red cells. At the sporulating stage the sporocytes will be seen to be made up of from five to twelve spores, which are arranged in a single row around a central mass of pigment. The whole is described as being daisy-shaped (see Plate II., Fig. 18). Though similar in other respects, the gamete cells of the quartan parasite are some- what smaller than those of the tertian (see Plate II., Fig. 19). Pigmented leucocytes will generally be found. Abortive or Larval Malarial Attacks.—These occur more frequently than is generally supposed. I'hey often appear as relapses after malignant infections, less frequently after benign in- fections. The symptoms are those of malaise, headache, slight pains in the limbs or back. Sweating may or may not occur. The tempera- ture may remain normal, and parasites may be absent from the peripheral circulation. The symptoms, in short, closely resemble those which occur in the prodromal stage of typical malarial infection. Splenic enlargement takes place in these attacks, and it is probably in this way that the large spleens are accounted for in individuals who say they have had very little fever during a prolonged residence in intensely malarious regions.MALARIA 136 Malignant, JSstivo - Autumnxil, or Tropical Malarial Fever.—These names have all been applied to the form of malarial infection about to be described; none of them are quite ap- propriate. If, however, it is borne in mind that malignant malaria means an infection in which there is a liability to malignancy, then this name is sufficiently correct. The term sestiA'O-autumnal is applicable enough to the malignant fevers of Italy and some parts of America where it exhibits a summer-autumn periodicity; but it is misleading when it is remembered that in most tropical countries this form of fever persists throughout the year. Koch has recently called it tropical malarial fever, but inasmuch as it is not confined to tropical countries, this term also is not altogether correct. The ill effects produced on the health of a population, and indirectly on the prosperity of a country, by the benign forms of malaria are lamentable, but they are insignificant in com- parison with the disastrous results of malignant malaria. It is not too much to say that the future progress of our tropical possessions depends on our ability to deal successfully with this form of malaria. Malignant malaria is characterised by the frequency with which definite quotidian or tertian periodicity is lost and replaced by a remittent or subcontinued fever, by the liability to the supervention of pernicious symptoms and cachexia, and by the resistance it sometimes exhibits to the action of quinine. The prodromal symptoms are like those of benign tertian fever; the aching of limbs, and back, and eyes is pronounced, and there may be depression or irritability of temper. The onset of the attack is usually less abrupt, the tempera- ture rises more gradually; the cold stage is slightly marked, or may be altogether absent. In the West African fevers not more than 20 per cent of the cases are ushered in with rigor. In relapses occurring after return to Europe, however, the rigor is usually well marked. The hot stage is always prolonged, lasting eight to twelve hours or longer, during which time headache and pains in the limbs and loins are usually intense. In some cases there may be only a general feeling of malaise. These symptoms differ so much from those of the benign tertian agues of India and elsewhere, that it is often difficult at first to convince new- comers on the west coast of Africa that they really are suffiiring from malarial fever. They usually attribute their illness to the effects of the sun. The attacks last from twenty to thirty hours; sweating is profuse, and brings with it the usual relief. In ordinary cases the fever commences as a true intermittent with a distinct period of intermission, but the apyrexial period is much shorter than in the case of the benign fevers. After two or three attacks of pyrexia, during which the intermissions have become shorter and shorter, it develops into a remittent fever (see Chart III., p. 148); occasion- ally from the first it is remittent. As recovery sets in, the temperature and other symptoms often reassume the intermittent type ; often with appropriate treatment the fever is cut short in the remittent stage. Convalescence is usually rapid, but more prolonged than in the benign fevers; the temperature is frequently sub- normal until health is restored. Although ordinary imcomplicated cases of malignant fever do not differ very markedly from the benign fevers, one important fact must never be lost sight of—it is that an individual infected with the malignant malarial parasite is liable at any time to a pernicious attack. There may be pernicious symptoms at the onset, or they may supervene during the course of an ordinary attack. No case of fever of this character, therefore, should be lightly dealt with, and, as far as the exigencies of the case permit, the patient should be assiduously nursed and treated until convalescence is complete. At stations where there are hospitals every case of malig- nant fever should be admitted, if possible, so as to be under direct medical observation. Sooner or later, in a certain proportion of cases, a patient who has suffered from a series of mild attacks will suddenly develop one of greater intensity, which, more or less, endangers his life. Certain individuals are more prone than others to these gi'ave forms of fever. Alcoholics, syphilitics, epileptics, and neurotic people are prone to what are termed cerebral attacks; alcoholics and those who are the subjects of visceral disease, particularly of the circulatory organs, are liable to syncopal attacks, but very often even young, strong, healthy adults are the subjects of similar pernicious malarial seizures. The practitioner in the Tropics cannot prevent altogether these grave occurrences, but he can lessen their frequency by invaliding confirmed alcoholics and those physically unfit for the climate, and by impress- ing upon all the importance of temperance. He should always be on the lookout for any unusual sign or symptom during an attack of fever; the warning, usually of a nervous character, may be ill-defined and not easily recognised, being nothing more perhaps than something peculiar in the behaviour and de- meanour, an irritability or restlessness, or perhaps an unnatural placidity, more rarely delusions. A life may be saved by the prompt recognition of the significance of these signs. There is another type of case, midway between the simple and pernicious form of malignant malaria, which is not so directly fatal as the pernicious, but which may lead to deterioration of health as well as cachexia. It comprises the bilious remittent, typhoidal re- mittent, and adynamic fevers.137 MALAEIA Bilious remittent is of fairly common occur- rence in most of the intensely malarious regions, being more frequent there during some years as compared to others. It usually starts as an ordinary case of fever, but the temperature rapidly becomes remittent, and bilious vomiting, with or without diarrhoea, sets in; there is icterus of the skin and sclerotics as well as bile in the urine. These cases last longer and lead to more prolonged convalescence than ordinary cases of fever. Typhoidal remittent is an aggravated form of the bilious remittent to which typhoidal symptoms are superadded, namely, dry tongue, muttering delirium, subsultus tendinum, and cardiac weakness. A considerable proportion of these cases terminate fatally. Adynamic Form.—In these cases there is great prostration, nervous and cardiac depres- sion, rapid and progressive deterioration of the blood, with icterus and wasting. Haemorrhages may occur from the mucous surfaces, there is a liability to phagedsena and local gangrene. This type of malaria is most frequently met with in half-starved and overworked natives, and occasionally in Europeans who have under- gone exceptional hardships. Pernicious Attacks.—These are almost invari- ably associated with malignant malarial infec- tions ; it is extremely rare for benign tertian, and still rarer for quartan infections, to give rise to grave symptoms. Pernicioiis attacks usually occur in the Tropics or in intensely malarious districts, but cases of this nature may occur from time to time after return to England. The pernicious symptoms are for the most part determined by the aggregation of vast numbers of sporulating parasites in the blood-vessels of the viscera, especially in those of the brain. It has already been pointed out that the tendency to sporulate in the internal organs is characteristic of the malignant parasite. The symptoms that supervene de- pend on the particular organ or, in the case of the brain, the particiilar area that is especially affected. Although the intensity of the infection depends mainly on the number of parasites present, yet it is certain that some parasites are more malignant than others. It should be here pointed out that the number of pa7-asites found in the finger blood gives no indication as to the degree of the infection in malignant cases. Fatal cases occur in which very few parasites are found in the peripheral circulation. The pernicious forms of malarial fever may be divided into cerebral and algide, and these may be again subdivided as follows :— Cerebral. 1. Hyperpyrexial. 2. Comatose. 3. Maniacal. 4. Paralytic and aphasic. Algide. 1. Gastric. 2. Choleraic. 3. Dysenteric. 4. Syncopal. The classification is useful for the purpose of description, but cases are frequently met with which do not conform to any one type, being a combination of two or more forms. Although the majority of pernicious attacks terminate in hyperpyrexia, there is also an apyrexial form ] this is rare, and usually occurs in old people, when, like pneumonia in the aged, it is insidious and gradual in its onset. There is perhaps a slight preliminary pyrexia, but the temperature subsequently becomes normal, and remains so until death occurs, which is generally preceded by coma. A case of this character was recently admitted to the Seamen's Hospital, Eoyal Albert Dock, London. 1. Hyperpyrexial Form.—In typical cases the onset is sudden; for example, the patient may fall down at his work in an unconscious or semi- comatose condition. There is usually a history of recent attacks of fever; temperature is found to be 104° F. or 105° F., and shortly afterwards it may register 107° F. or 108° F., and instead of being lowered by the sweating stage it mounts still higher, reaching 110° F., or even 112° F. The patient, after a brief stage of violent delirium, passes rapidly into a deep coma, which ends in death. Cases of this description are often put down as attacks of sunstroke. There is another type of case in which, in the course of an ordinary attack of malaria, the temperature, instead of falling as usual, rises steadily and, in spite of treatment, hyperpyrexia and death supervene. A patient who has recovered from a hj-perpyrexia attack should be removed from a malarious country and not be permitted to return on account of liability to similar attacks. 2. Comatose Form.—This, like the hyper- pyrexial form, may either develop suddenly or come on during the attack of fever; the temperature may not be high, and, in some cases, with the advent of the sweating stage the patient may gradually come out of the coma. In other cases, although the sweating occurs as \isual, the coma deepens and ends in death. Occasionally the patient regains con- sciousness and the temperature falls, but the next day fever and coma return, or delirium, and perhaps hyperpyrexia, supervene and death takes place after a few hours' time. It is possible, if quinine be promptly and properly administered and in sufficiently large doses, that the second comatose attack may be pre- vented or diminished in intensity. 3. Maniacal. — This is less common than the two previous forms of pernicious fever. Several cases, however, occurred during the last French campaign in Madagascar. This form is nearly always fatal. It may commence with delusions and terminate either in coma or hyperpyrexia. 4. Paralytic and Aphasic Forms.—These are138 MALAEIA generally associated with coma of greater or less intensity. The symptoms do not differ from cases of cerebral embolism due to other causes, but there may be convulsions of a marked character in these cases. If recovery occurs it is usually rapid and complete. In rare cases, especially in comatose attacks, patients may become completely or partially blind, either in one eye or in both. The amaurosis is usually transient; occasionally, however, it persists and there is a greater or less permanent defect of vision. Ophthalmo- scopic examination will reveal retinal haemor- rhages ; they occur from plugging of the retinal and choroidal vessels by parasites. In cases in which permanent defect of vision persists it is due to optic neuritis. The distinction between quinine and malarial am- blyopia will be referred to under the heading of Diagnosis. Algide Group:— 1. Gastric Form. — In this form the gastric symptoms are by far the most prominent, and their malarial origin may in some cases be over- looked. It is associated with persistent vomit- ing, which may contain no bile, with epigastric tenderness and retracted abdomen. Choleraic Form.—This is not uncommon in many intensely malarious regions, where it may simulate very closely Asiatic cholera, both in its symptoms and in its rapidly fatal termination. The onset is often gradual, the patient being quiet and listless, and it is not perhaps until the pulse be felt that the serious condition of the patient is recognised. Watery diarrhoea is frequent, but the bilious element generally persists more or less in the stools. The patient becomes pinched, the eyes sunken, the voice weak, and the urine may be suppressed. It would be impossible to diagnose the condition with certainty without the aid of the microscope. Improvement may set in during the sweating stage. If recovery occurs it is generally rapid. 3. Dysenteric Fo7-m.—This is common in certain malarious regions, and closely resembles true dysentery. It is usually accompanied with hsemorrhage from the bowels and else- where, but there may be pyrexia, enlargement of spleen, and a history of previous malarial attacks. The diagnosis is very important, because if the case be treated as one of dysentery, death may occur. Diagnosis de- pends upon the recognition of the malarial parasite in the blood. 4. Syncopal Form.—Attacks of fever in which syncope occurs are occasionally met with, generally in those who have some cardiac or other visceral lesion. It may occur during an unusually profuse sweating stage or at the commencement of the rigor, or, in fact, at any stage. The exertion of sitting up sometimes induces fatal syncope, especially after a profuse and prolonged sweating stage. The Blood in Malignant Fever.—It is not so easy to study the biological and morpho- logical characters of the malignant parasite {Haemomenas prcecox) as was the case with the benign and quartan, because, as already stated, the latter half of its life-cycle is carried on in the blood-vessels of the internal organs. Reference has already been made to the view of the Italian school concerning the varieties of the malignant parasite, but other observers in the same field are unable to confirm with certainty the existence of a non-pigmented quotidian, a pigmented quotidian, and a tertian variety. There is, nevertheless, one distinctive character of this species of malarial parasite, namely, the crescentic shape of the gamete cell. In malignant malaria small non-pigmented amoebulse will be found in the blood, especially after the onset of the rigor. They resemble very closely the young benign tertian amoebulse, but are smaller (see Plate II., Fig. 20). They are usually extremely active, but have a marked tendency to become quiescent from time to time. They then assume a ring form, having a well- defined outline ; but if one of these rings be watched its margin may be seen to gradually become undulating and less distinct, and then pseudopodia are once more protruded and amoeboid movement is renewed. After a time the ring form is resumed once more. Two or more parasites in one corpuscle are more frequently met with in this form of infection than in the benign forms (see Plate II., Fig. 24) ; in severe infections occasionally five or six may be found in one corpuscle. Twelve to eighteen hours after the onset of the attack a few parasites may be foimd somewhat larger in size and possessing one or two granules of fine pigment (see Plate II., Figs. 23 and 24). About this time the parasites gradually become less and less numerous, until towards the end of the cycle very few indeed may be found in the peripheral circulation. If, however, the splenic blood be examined, parasites in all stages of development, many of them enclosed in macro- phages, can be found in large numbers. The sporocyte of this form of malaria occupies about one-third of the red corpuscle, is a small irregularly-shaped body, consisting of a block of pigment and from five to twelve minute spores; it is frequently located to one side of the red cell. Rarely, advanced forms and even sporocytes may be met with in the peripheral blood. Generally a few of the infected red cells will be observed to be dark in colour and having the peculiar tint of old brass. These are called " brassy bodies" (globuli rossi ottonati), and are red corpuscles which have become pro- foundly altered by the parasites which they contain; they are shrunken and irregular in shape and stain imperfectly (see Plate II., Fig. 25) . These "brassy bodies" are almost exclus-139 MALARIA ively met with in this form of infection. Crescent bodies are not usually seen in peri- pheral blood until about a week after the onset of the fever; they remain in the blood for two, three, or more weeks, attain a maximum number and then diminish, and finally disappear. These bodies undergo no changes and give rise to no symptoms in the human body. The adult forms are not influenced by quinine; it is probable, however, that the immature forms are acted upon by this drug, and in this way their appearance in the circulation may be prevented. Relapses Malarial fever is prone to recur months, or even years, after the individual has left a malarious country, and this tendency to relapse probably persists for a longer time in the benign than in the malignant fevers. The direct cause of relapse is due to the latent phase of the malarial parasite becoming active. The form that the parasite assumes during its period of latency is not known; it may be that it passes into an encysted stage and remains dormant in some internal organ, such as the spleen, or in the bone-marrow. It may be, on the other hand, that the parasite continues to reproduce itself in the usual asexual way, but not in numbers sufficient to give rise to clinical manifestations. A. Plehn recently has stated that there are certain small granules either attached to, or in the substance of, the red corpuscles which dis- appear during attacks of malarial fever and reappear during the periods of freedom from acute manifestations with a steady increase in number. The granules stain with Ehrlich's mixture and with methylene blue. Plehn calls these bodies Karyo-chromatophilic granules, and believes them to be the latent form of the parasite. This is an interesting observation, but it is not clear whether these bodies are not really degenerations in the red cells which often occur in anaemias, and which were described by Ehrlich so long ago as 1879. The causes which predispose to, and the clinical manifestations of relapses, differ in no marked respect from those of primary infections. Sequels Malarial Cachexia.—An attack of malaria, if properly treated, generally results in a rapid and complete cure; but if attacks recur con- stantly or are imperfectly treated, or if the surrounding conditions are unfavourable—for example, through bad food-supply or improper housing, and especially if associated with harass- ing duties in a trying climate—then a train of symptoms sets in which shows that the malarial parasite is gaining the upper hand. On the other hand, prolonged exposure to malarial influence under otherwise favourable conditions may also cause cachexia. More rarely cachexia follows after only one severe attack of malaria, especially if the health has been previously undermined by syphilis, for example, or some other chronic disease. The leading symptoms are a dirty greyish- yellow colour of both skin and sclerotics, pro- nounced anaemia, enlargement of spleen, and, in early cases, enlargement of the liver. Cachexia usually follows attacks of the malignant type of infection, but it is possible for the benign tertian, or even the quartan, to produce this condition. Children are especially prone to become cachectic when residing in intensely malarious districts ; this is no doubt due to the fact that they so frequently suffer from masked or irregular attacks of fever which are not properly treated, their true nature not being recognised. A typical case forms a striking clinical picture—the child always looks ansemic and sallow, and the skin feels harsh and parch- ment-like. The aspect is sad and dejected ; the eyes sunken and the voice weak and peevish; the body is ill-developed, thin and wasted; growth is often stunted. Gastro-intestinal catarrh, with diarrhoea, is the rule ; the abdomen is protuberant, with the spleen reaching, per- haps, to the iliac crest. Vomiting and pyrexia occur from time to time, and death, from advancing cachexia, or, more often, from some intercurrent disease, is very frequent. In the adult the symptoms are not, as a rule, so pro- nounced ; the patient has the same peculiar anaemic and sallow look, is short of breath on exertion, and very likely has oedema of the lower extremities. There may be hsemic cardiac murmurs, systolic in character. Slight pyrexia may occur late in the day; intense headache and periodic neuralgias are common, as well as recurring attacks of pain in the region of the spleen. Haemorrhages are prone to occur either in the form of epistaxis, haematemesis, or melaena; there may be subcutaneous haemor- rhages or bleeding from the gums. The blood may, or may not, contain malarial parasites. If an attack of malignant fever has recently occurred, crescent bodies may be found. The blood is watery and its character is that of a profound secondary anaemia; there is a marked oligocythaemia, the red cells falling perhaps to 1^ millions per c.mm., and the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles is diminished. Nucleated red cells are frequently met with. The leuco- cytes may be diminished in number, more especially the polymorphonuclear variety. The spleen is generally enormously enlarged, giving rise to the so-called ague cake. At first it is soft and rounded, but afterwards becomes hard, with a sharp, well-defined margin. It is not generally tender. The large spleen of malarial cachexia is liable to rupture, and even a slight blow may in this way prove fatal. The patient must be warned of this danger. This untoward accident is most liable to happen during a febrileMALARIA 140 attack, and is even said to have occurred from over-distension without the receipt of any injury. The symptoms of rupture of the spleen are those of internal htemorrhage; briefly, these are pain with an increase of dulness in the left flank, small rapid pulse, livid pallor, restless- ness, thirst, syncope, and coma. Death is inevitable unless a successful surgical operation can be performed. It may be here pointed out that it is rarely justifiable to aspirate the spleen for the purpose of blood examination. What determines the degree of splenic en- largement in malaria is unknown. It certainly does not depend entirely on the number of attacks of fever. Possibly it may depend on the individual, for I have observed in two ship epidemics that the spleens of the seamen affected varied very considerably in size, although none of them had been previously infected, and all had suffered from the same number of attacks of fever. Daniels believes that race influences the degree of splenic enlargement. He found, after a prolonged series of post-mortem ex- aminations in Georgetown, British Guiana, that the negro has a much smaller spleen than the Indian immigrants or Europeans. Malarial cachexia in the adult is not in itself very fatal, but may predispose to some intercurrent disease and so cause death. Under proper treatment, including removal from the malarious district, health may be restored ; the spleen, however, although much reduced in size, does not quite resume its normal dimensions. More often, perhaps, the health is broken, and the individual becomes prematurely aged, with the grey hair, arcus senilis, and commencing cirrhotic changes of liver and kidneys so often met with in invalids from the Tropics. The disease known as Kala-azar, the cause of which has from time to time given rise to discussion, is now generally regarded as a post-malarial affection. Complications There has been a great tendency to regard many diseases which complicate malaria as being themselves malarial in origin. Typhoid, dysentery, pneumonia, orchitis, etc., have all been stigmatised in this way. These diseases, and many others, may, and do occur during malarial attacks, but it is wrong to regard them as manifestations of malaria. TypJio-Malaria.—For many years, especially in America, and to a less extent in India, a condition known as typho-malaria was described, and which was regarded as a definite disease. Some observers considered it to be distinct both from malaria and typhoid ; others regarded it as a peculiar comlnnation of the two diseases, and one in which the malarial element resisted treat- ment. At the present time we know that no such condition exists, and that most of the so- called cases of typho-malaria are typhoid pure and simple, in which rigors from septic ab- sorption or other causes occur during the course of the disease. It is important to remember, however, that malaria may occur during an attack of typhoid fever. It can be readily understood that an individual, the subject of a latent malarial infection, who contracts typhoid is prone to suff'er from an acute manifestation of malaria. This may occur at the onset when the condition may be diagnosed a simple case of malaria. More often it occurs late in the disease or during convalescence. If these few points be kept in mind no real difficulty in diagnosis exists. The malarial element must be diagnosed by the microscope and the typhoid by the Widal reaction. When malaria is recognised it demands prompt specific treatment. Dysentery corresponds so closely in many places with malaria in geographical distribu- tion that it is not surprising that the two dis- eases frequently concur in the same individual. There is nothing special to be mentioned in these cases, unless it be that the pyrexia of the malarial element may simulate the fever of liver abscess. Care must be taken not to confound this class of case with the dysenteric type of pernicious malarial fever. Acute pneumonia is not an infrequent complication of malaria; it occurs more frequently perhaps on return to a cold climate. It presents no special features, except that it may run a severe course with delayed resolution, and is prone to lead to suppuration of lung or pleura. Malaria may occur in a tubercular subject, when it may not be recognised on account of rigors and pyrexia being attributed to the presence of tubercle. Too great care cannot be exercised in making an examination of blood in suspicious cases, for the timely administration of quinine is imperative, and if withheld, the condition of the patient is greatly influenced for the worse. Syphilis occurring in a subject enfeebled by malaria frequently assumes extraordinary virulence, and occasionally syphilis which has been apparently cured reappears in a virulent tertiary manifestation during an attack of malarial fever. Malaria occurring during the coui-se of syphilis is equally serious, and the patient should leave the malarious country, because in nearly all cases rapid deterioration of health is certain to follow. When it is remembered that malaria especially attacks the individual who is subject to depressing influences, it is not surprising to find that the puerperal state is often complicated with malaria. It is practically the rule for malarious women to suffer from malarial fever after delivery. Accidents also which require surgical operation often light up some old malarial affection, or precipitate an attack of malaria. This is often confusing until a blood examination has explained the cause of pyrexia.MALARIA 141 5ils and prickly heat in the Tropics often implicate and add to the discomfort of alaria. The subject of black water fever is so fully iscribed in a special article in vol. i., and its lation to malaria so thoroughly discussed, lat I have not alluded to the disease in this ■tide. Diagnosis of Malaria It is not so long ago that the diagnosis of alaria was very unsatisfactory; it was almost ifficient for a patient in a malarious country i suffer from pyrexia with rigors in order to ! treated as a case of malaria. We need only fer to the mistakes that have been made in idia in the past with regard to typhoid fever, I show that diagnosis by clinical signs and lerapeutic agents is not to be entirely relied oon. To-day things are different; by means examination of the blood the presence of alaria may be ascertained with certainty, and le importance of employing this means of agnosis cannot be too strongly emphasised. In the benign fevers, which exhibit the laracteristic tertian or quartan periodicity, inical diagnosis is easy, and even when they isume a quotidian type, the previous history, ith the clinical signs and symptoms, namely, ilarged spleen, peculiar tint of skin, the early ifemia, the regularly recurring rigor (often in le forenoon), the bien etre of the intermission, lould alone suffice to make a correct diagnosis jssible. The most important element, how- ler, in the diagnosis of malaria will always 3 the recognition by the microscope of the irasites or the pigmented leucocytes. In lildren often the principal reliance must be laced on the examination of the blood. Nowadays quinine is practically never required 5 a diagnostic agent, but in the absence of a licroscope it is often a useful aid. A single 3se will often disclose the true nature of a iver; for example, by converting a double jrtian infection into a single tertian (see emperature Chart IV.). Rapid diagnosis in the case of the benign ivers is not usually imperative, but in the lalignant fevers it may be a matter of life or sath. Unfortunately, it is in the malignant svers that mistakes most frequently occur; le indefinite onset, the poorly marked rigor, le remittent pyrexia, and the pernicious attacks II tend to simulate other diseases and to render iagnosis extremely difficult. The diseases which are most likely to be jnfounded with uncomplicated intermittent lalarial fever are liver abscess, tuberculosis, ifluenza, septic processes, ulcerative endo- irditis, and pyaemia; syphilitic fever, the assage of gall-stones, pyelitis, catheter fever, lephantoid and leprous fever. Typhoid fever, allow fever, cerebro-spinal fever, and Malta fever are more likely to be mistaken for malignant malarial infections. Liver abscess is perhaps the most frequent source of error. Such cases are not infrequently treated with quinine on the supposition that they are malarial. The fact that the case does not improve should alone be sufficient to induce the practitioner to revise the diagnosis, for it is very seldom that a case of malaria fails to respond to quinine. In liver abscess there is nearly always enlai'gement of the liver, but not necessarily of the spleen, as is invariably the case in malaria of some standing. Localised tenderness of liver can generally be made out, with perhaps pain shooting up to the right shoulder. Moreover, there is often a history of gradual deterioration of health, and almost invariably of dysentery, and microscopic ex- amination of the blood shows a leucocytosis. An abscess of the left lobe of the liver may cause difficulty in diagnosis, as in certain instances the attendant hepatic swelling simulates an enlarged spleen; but the pain and the hectic and other symptoms will be different from that of malaria, and there will be no malarial parasites in the blood. Non- suppurative hepatitis and gummatous affections of the liver, which give rise to symptoms like those of hepatic abscess, are also possible sources of error. Tubercle, as already remarked, is another source of error. The practitioner must rely upon a careful physical examination of the patient, as well as of the blood and sputum. (See also "Liver," vol. v. p. 502.) Uncomplicated malarial infections may closely simulate influenza. There are the same aching pains of limbs, back, and eyes, with headache, vomiting, and neuralgia. But rigors are un- common in influenza, early anaemia is absent, the spleen is not enlarged, and the disease usually occurs in epidemics. Septic fevers, pyaemia, and ulcerative endo- carditis all give rise to an intermittent fever, profuse sweating, rigors, and often enlargement of the spleen. Diagnosis of these conditions must be arrived at upon general grounds. Malaria can be excluded by examination of the blood and by noting the want of regularity in the occurrence of the rigors. Although gall- stones and the passage of catheters may give rise to rigors like those of malaria, on inquiry the true cause can be usually arrived at. Leprosy is associated with attacks of pyrexia, lasting from two to three days, and sometimes accompanied by profuse sweating. There can be little doubt that the early stages of many cases of leprosy are regarded as malarial and treated with quinine. Elephantoid fever, with or without varicose groin glands, elephantiasis, lymph-scrotum, or other local affection of filarial origin, is very liable to be mistaken for malaria. The knowledge that these diseases give rise to attacks of fever142 MALARIA from time to time should suffice to prevent them being mistaken for malaria. Typhoid fever may closely resemble remittent malarial fever, and sometimes cannot be distinguished from it without the aid of blood examinations and the Widal reaction. Unfortunately, the Widal reaction does not give positive results until after the sixth day of the illness. The gradual onset of the fever, the marked pro- dromal symptoms, epistaxis, deafness, ladder- like rise of temperature and roseola, if present, would all point to typhoid. There is an absence of leucocytosis in both diseases, but the presence of pronounced anaemia would be evidence in favour of malaria. The urine of typhoid fever usually gives the diazo reaction, especially when the fever is at its highest point. Microscopical examination of the blood is conclusive as to the presence or absence of malaria, but it does not exclude typhoid ; the concurrence of the two diseases is occasionally met with. Yellow fever may be mistaken for the bilious, remittent form of malaria. The chief points to be relied upon are the albuminuria of yellow fever, the slow pulse, the characteristic fever with sthenic onset and period of calm, and also its epidemic occur- rence and limited geographical range. Cerebro-spinal fever might be mistaken for malarial fever, but the presence of rigidity of the neck muscles, Kernig's sign, and the pres- ence of the diplococcus intracellularis meningi- tidis obtained by lumbar puncture are enough to establish a diagnosis. Comatose pernicious attacks may closely simulate coma from any other cause, such as cerebral hsemorrhage, alcohol, ursemia, diabetes, and poisoning by opium or other narcotics. In the absence of previous history, and without blood examination, the diagnosis may be im- possible, although the examination of the urine and pupils may afford some indication as to the causation. A hyperpyrexial attack of pernicious malaria may be very misleading when occurring in a district endemic to siriasis or thermic fever. This form of sunstroke can be diagnosed by the prodromal symptoms, previous history, condition of spleen, and, most important of all, by negative blood examinations. Malarial cachexia may be mistaken for any of the secondary ansemias, such as occur in Bright's disease, cancer, tertiary syphilis, etc., or for pernicious antemia, splenic anjemia, or for splenic leuksemia. Care should be taken not to assume too hastily that because a patient is cachectic, and has suffered from malaria, that his cachexia is due to malaria. The amblyopia of malaria has to be diagnosed from that which may follow on toxic doses of quinine. In malarial amblyopia the onset is not usually sudden, although it may be so if hemorrhage has occurred in the macular region ; both eyes are not necessarily affected ; loss of vision is incomplete, and there is some reaction to light. It may terminate in optic neuritis. In quinine amblyopia the drug will have been taken in large doses of not less than 30 grains; the onset is sudden, both eyes ai'e affected, vision is completely lost for a time; the pupils are widely dilated, and inactive to light as long as the loss of vision continues. Ophthalmoscopic examination will reveal a white haze over the fundus, with a cherry-red spot at the macular region. The optic disc will be pale from con- striction of the retinal vessels, and usually remains abnormally white. Central vision is the first to return ; but there is usually a defect in the field of vision, or some degree of colour blindness. Morbid Anatomy Blood.—The primary and essential morbid changes take place in the blood ; those that are found in the internal organs are secondary. The blood of malaria has the characters of an oligocythsemia, and also of a hsemoglobinsemia. The oligocythsemia is due to the destruction of the red cells by the parasites; this has been already described when dealing with parasitology. The haeraoglobinsemia, however, is not so easily explained, for it is much greater than can be accounted for by the number of red cells actually destroyed. Manson suggests that the excess- ive hsemoglobinsemia is due to the presence of a toxin which has the power of dissolving the haemoglobin from the red cells, and which is elaborated by the malarial parasite, and set free in the blood at the time of sporulation. The existence of this toxin, however, has not yet been proven. Figmerit.—Before describing the post-mortem appearance of the internal organs it will be well to say a few words with regard to the pigment, which is such a constant and striking feature of malarial infection. There are two kinds of pigment met with, namely, the black or melanin variety, and the yellow or pigment ochre of Kelsch and Kiener. The black pigment is pathognomic of malaria, being elaborated from the haemoglobin by the malarial parasite. It exists as fine grains, or as short rods or in dense blocks. The colour varies between black, reddish black, or yellowish brown. It is in- soluble in strong acids, but soluble in alkalis, especially in ammonia, but it does not give the iron reaction. It is found chiefly in the spleen, liver, bone-marrow, and brain, less frequently in the lymphatic glands at the hilus of the liver. The yellow pigment is not found exclusively in malaria; it is, in fact, evidence merely of rapid haemolyptic changes in the blood. It is seen in pernicious anaemia, backwater fever, poisoning by certain chemicals, such as chlorate of potash and arseniate of hydrogen. It gives the iron reaction, but it is insoluble in acids,MALARIA 143 alkalis, and alcohol. It is in reality bvit slightly altered haemoglobin derived from disintegration of the red cells. This variety of pigment is found chiefly in the cells of the liver, spleen, and kidneys. Internal Organs.—The post-mortem changes of the internal organs differ according to whether the case be one of recent infection or one of long standing. In a fatal case due to recent infec- tion the body will be anaemic. The spleen will be enlarged, but not always very much ; it will be soft, tense, and its parenchyma diffluent, and reddish black or black in colour. The liver will be swollen and congested, and on section it may have a slaty appearance. The fluid in the serous cavities may have a yellow tinge. On examining the brain, tiny specks of melanin may be visible to the naked eye; the capillaries will usually be full of blood, and puncta cruenta well marked. The lungs, as a rule, do not present anything characteristic. The intestinal tract may or may not show evidence of con- gestion ; its mucous lining may have a greyish hue, but this is found in other conditions besides malaria. The bone-marrow is usually dark in colour. On microscopical examination the spleen will be found to contain malarial parasites in enormous numbers, and generally in different stages of development, although, as a rule, the greater number will be at the same stage. They may be free or intracorpuscular. Large macrophages and leucocytes will be seen laden with black pigment, some of which may be in dense masses. These cells will also be found to contain parasites which are included in red cells. The infected red cells will generally be shrunken, discoloured, and degenerating, but the parasites they contain may look healthy. Occasionally one meets with a macrophage which has en- gulfed a leucocyte containing in its interior an infected red cell. In sections of the liver the capillaries will contain pigment-laden leucocytes, but parasites will, as a rule, be present in very small numbers. The endothelial cells of the capillaries may contain pigment. The liver cells may be undergoing cloudy swelling, and in their substance will be found a varying amount of yellow pigment in fine granules. The brain in most cases, but especially in those which have exhibited cerebral symptoms during life, shows ample evidence of malarial infection. The capillaries will contain parasites in large numbers, some free, others in red cells, and others in the endothelial lining cells of the capillaries. Melanin granules will also be found in abundance, and veritable thrombi are often formed partly by the aggregation of parasites and pigment, and partly by the swelling and degeneration of the endothelial cells. Pigment- bearing macrophages and leucocytes will also be present. Although the cells of the brain substance do not contain parasites or pigment, yet not infrequently they may be shown, on staining by Golgi's method, to have undergone coarse morbid changes in consequence of the deficient supply of blood brought about by the thrombosis of the capillaries. These changes are always localised, and only certain of the cells in a given area are aff'ected. These will be seen to be shrunken and degenerating and their dendrites beaded along their continuity. The capillary loops of the intestine in some cases are found to contain a large number of parasites and also pigment. hi chronic malaria the spleen will be enor- mously enlarged, firm, and with a sharp, well- defined border. On section, the capsule and trabeculse are seen to be thickened. The liver will be enlarged and firm, and cirrhotic changes may be evident. On section it may exhibit a reddish-brown or diffuse'slate colour; this latter, however, may be limited to the periphery of the lobules. The brain usually presents the well- known leaden hue. Microscopical examination, however, will often fail to demonstrate the pres- ence of any parasites, especially if a febrile attack has not occurred for some time; but pigment will usually be present. The spleen will contain a large amount of pigment in the vascular spaces, lymphoid cells, and connective tissue. The large ague cakes do not contain as much pigment as the smaller ones. In the liver the pigment tends to diminish in old cases, and appears to be carried to the periphery of the organ and to the glands at the hilus of the liver. Well-marked cirrhotic changes may be met with, but recent observers are disinclined to attribute these to uncomplicated malaria. The kidneys may be cirrhotic and atrophied. To obtain good sections of malarial organs the tissues should be obtained immediately after death. Sections should be examined stained and also unstained. Etiology The etiological factors which predispose to malaria are those conditions which favour the development and spread of the malaria-bearing mosquitoes. Mosquitoes require a comparatively high at- mospheric temperature in order to develop, consequently malaria abounds chiefly in the warmer latitudes. Mosquitoes, however, are found also in colder latitudes during the hot summer mouths, and if the other necessary conditions are present, malaria will exist. This is the case on the shores of the Baltic and in other places. The drainage, levelling, and paving of towns is inimical to the breeding of the Anopheles, so that malaria is, for the most part, a rural disease. Rome is free from malaria; the sur- rovmding Campagna, on the other hand, is intensely malarious. Malaria is found chiefly in the plains and low-lying regions; mosquitoes find suitable breeding-spots here. They areMALARIA 144 low-flying insects and rarely ascend to any con- siderable height, so that it is often sufficient to sleep in the upper stories of houses in order to escape infection. The natives of many malarious regions are aware of this fact, and sleep in houses raised a considerable height from the ground. Mosquitoes do not fly far from their breeding-places, and a ship anchored a thousand yards from the shore will escape infection imless infected mosquitoes be brought to the ship. On land, however, they frequently travel con- siderable distances, especially if the country be wooded so as to afford them shelter and resting- places. Malaria is to some extent a seasonal disease, but it must be understood that con- tiguous places may not be malarious at the same season of the year if different hydraulic conditions obtain. Breeding - places for the Ano2Jheles may exist in one place at the com- mencement of the rainy season, at another only at the end of the rainy season. Vegetation and cultivation of land may act favourably or adversely towards mosquitoes, and consequently towards malaria. Trees may, by absorbing the surface and sub-soil water, prevent the formation of pools suitable for the breeding of mosquitoes, and they may act as a barrier to mosquitoes. On the other hand, they may by checking evaporation, prevent pools from drying up, and act as a shelter for mosquitoes. A good example of this is to be found at Tre Fontine near Rome, where a eucalyptus grove was planted with a view to stamp out malaria; it has instead intensified it. Again, cultivation of land may, by draining and levelling, do away with spots suitable for Anopheles to breed in; on the other hand, irriguous cultivation may afford greater facilities for the mosquitoes to breed. In some parts of Italy the cultivation of rice brought about such an increase in the frequency and intensity of malaria, that it had to be discontinued. The natives of a malarious country suffer less from malaria than newcomers. Whether this relative immunity be altogether acquired, or in part inherited, is not quite certain. It is reasonable to suppose, however, that a people living generation after generation in an intensely malarious country will, by a survival of the fittest, come to possess increased powers of resistance to malarial infection. The observa- tions which Koch has recently made in New Guinea tend to show that, for the most part, the relative immunity of natives is acquired. He made blood examinations of the apparently healthy native population in various villages, and he found that nearly all the young children harboured the malarial parasites, while the adults were free. Thus at Bogadjiun, Kaiser Wilhelm's Land, the blood of 80 per cent of the children under two years contained malarial parasites. Above that age none of those ex- amined had malarial parasites in their blood. This observation has been confirmed by others in West Africa. It will be interesting to observe whether, when native children are treated with quinine as a prophylactic measure, they will lose the immunity which they would otherwise have acquired. Men suffer more from malaria than women, partly because they are more likely to be bitten by mosquitoes, and partly on account of the hardships and exposure they undergo, which predispose them to relapses. In considering the etiology of malaria many old theories must be discarded, and many others, which could not formerly be understood, can now be fully explained in the light of the new researches. Treatment The treatment of malaria consists principally in the administration of quinine ; no other drug equals it in efficacy. It is all-important, there- fore, to have a thorough knowledge of the details for its employment. Quinine acts by arresting the growth of the malarial parasite and causing its disappearance from the blood. The effect of the drug is more rapid and certain in the case of the benign fevers; it exerts its greatest influence on the young parasites, which lose their motility and become more refractile and granular, and they may be extruded by the corpuscle. Both the chromatin matter and protoplasm of the parasites are altered and stain imperfectly; the Germans call these bodies "quinine formen." In an ordinary uncomplicated case of malarial fever, either benign or malignant, quinine is best given in a mixture containing a solution of one of the salts. The sulphate is the one usually employed, its solution being effected by means of one of the dilute mineral acids. On the whole, however, the hydrochlorate of quinine is preferable; it contains more alkaloid, is less irritating and more soluble than the sulphate, but it is rather more expensive. It may be given in solution, in suspension, in mucilage, or in a little milk or coffee, if preferred, the taste being less noticeable in this way. It may be exhibited also in the form of pill, tabloid, or platinoid. None of these pharmaceutical pre- parations are, however, to be recommended if the drug is available in any other simpler form. If a case, especially one of malignant in- fection, shows the slightest indication that quinine is not being absorbed in the alimentary canal, or if it is vomited, the drug should be administered either by deep intramuscular in- jection, or intravenously, or by the i-ectum. Deep intramuscular injections are the best; they should be administered with strict anti- septic preca\itions; the solution of the acid hydrochlorate (1 in 2) is usually employed. It can be best made from tabloids at the time ofMALARIA 145 use ; the dose is from 5 to 10 grains at each injection. The acid sulphate (1 in 10) may be also used, or the sulphate may be given in the same dose, its solution being effected in water by the addition of half its weight of tartaric acid. The site of administration is generally into the gluteal muscles, the sterilised needle being inserted up to the hilt. The routine treatment of a case of fever is as follows:—The patient is put to bed between blankets, and is given a hot drink (soup or weak tea), with some mild diaphoretic mixture or 5 grains of phenacetin ; at the sweating stage 10 or 15 grains of quiniue in solution are given, and repeated every four or six hours, in 5 or 10 grain doses, as the case demands. It is gener- ally advisable to give a mercurial purge at the onset of the attack. Tepid sponging is com- forting, and may be employed with care. The diet should be light and nutritious, such as milk, eggs, soups, and bland farinaceous food. Freshly-made lemonade is a pleasant drink. Quinine should be continued during convales- cence for never less than one week in diminish- ing doses, and 15 grains given in divided doses on one day, at least, every week for a month afterwards. Alcohol is, as a rule, not indicated, but a little light wine or ale may be given if thought necessary during convalescence. Euch- inin, a tasteless form of quinine, which has been recently introduced, is a good preparation for children, ladies, and others who object to the taste of quinine. The dosage is the same, but it should not be relied upon in the treatment of serious cases. In a severe case quinine may be injected into the rectum after a simple enema. The dose for an adult is 30 grains, either in two ounces of milk or salt solution. In pernicious attacks it is not advisable to wait for the ab- sorption of quinine by the alimentary canal, but rather to inject the drug into the deep muscles or into a vein without delay. Intra- venous injections were first introduced by Bacelli; he strongly advocates this mode of treatment, and his formula is :— Acid hydrochlorate of quinine . 1 gramme. Chloride of sodium . . . -075 ,, Distilled water . . . 10 cos. Not more than half this amount is injected at one time by means of a Pravaz syringe. Person- ally I cannot recommend this method of treat- ment. A case of hyperpyrexia must be treated with the cold bath, or in extreme cases the ice pack, with careful watching. The cold bath must be repeated when the temperature rises above 103-5° F. Quinine may give rise to temporary deafness, severe frontal headache, giddiness, gastric dis- turbance, urticarial and scarlatiniform rashes, cardiac and muscular weakness, as well as amblyopia. In rare cases toxic doses have caused hsemoglobinuria, delirium, convulsions, VOL. VI and even death. Some people, on the other hand, are able to acquire a tolerance for com- paratively enormous doses of the drug. Many drugs have been vaunted as specifics for malaria ; of these methylene blue, carbolic acid, phenacoll, arsenic, Warburg's tincture, and anarcotine only require mention. Some people are intolerant to quinine in any form, and in these cases methylene blue may be given in the same doses as quinine either in cachets or solu- tion. The patient should be warned that his urine will become blue while he is taking the drug. Methylene blue causes the destruction of malarial parasites in the same way as quinine. Arsenic, although it has some influence as a prophylactic, is of little use during the febrile attack. The drug, however, is of great value for post - malarial ansemia and in malarial cachexia, when it should be continued for some time and in liberal doses. During convalescence a blood restorative is required. Arsenic and Blaud's pill is the one usually employed. Bacelli's mixture is a good but rather unpleasant preparation. It consists of :— Be Quinine sulphate . 3 grammes (45 grs.). Iron and potassium tartrate . . 7 „ (105 grs.). Fowler's solution . 24 minims. Distilled water . 300 c.cs. (10 oz.). i>ose.—One to three tea-spoonfuls three times a day (diluted). Malarial cachectics must be removed from the malarious region and sent to Europe. If it be winter they should be sent to a warm, sheltered spot, and placed under a course of quinine and Carlsbad salts, which must be followed by a prolonged course of arsenic. The splenic en- largement may be treated locally with iodine, blistering, etc. Prophylaxis Malaria must now be regarded as preventable, and, as with other infectious maladies, steps must be taken to check the spread of the disease, and, where possible, to stamp it out altogether. It is as yet too early to formulate definite rules and directions for the prophylaxis of malaria, but there is little doubt that the work which is being carried on at the present time by Koch in New Guinea, by the Italian observers, and by many others in different parts of the malarial world, will bear fruit, and that in the near future a marked diminution in malaria, especially in countries under active European influence, will be brought about. It will be possible in this article to point out only some of the ways by which this end may be attained. Malaria can be attacked from more than one side, and there is probably no malarial region in which the prevalence of the disease cannot be lessened if sufficient trouble is taken. 10MALARIA 146 The prophylaxis of malaria can be approached in the three following ways:— I. The definite host of the malarial parasite, namely, the Anoj^heles mosquito, can be de- stroyed either in its aquatic or aerial stages. II. Man can be protected from the bites of mosquitoes. III. The malarial parasite can be attacked in its human host. The two first methods are the most satis- factory, as they prevent an individual becoming infected. I. The Destruction of the Anopheles. — The main efforts should be directed against the destruction of the insect in its larval form, for it can be most easily dealt with in the aquatic stages of its existence. In towns, in nearly every case, the collections of water suitable for the breeding of Anopheles can be dealt with either by filling up pools or by converting sluggish streams into rapid streams, or by employing some larvicidal substance in the water. In course of time these duties will, doubtless, devolve on the local sanitary author- ities, but in the meantime medical men may be called upon to direct these operations. The filling up of the Anopheles' breeding haunts may, in some cases, consist merely in turning a few spadefuls of soil; in others it may neces- sitate the institution of extensive engineering works. Celli and Casagrandi have carried out a number of experiments with various sub- stances to ascertain the one which is most active as a larvicide (see tables A and B). Table A (after Celli) Action of Culicidal Substances on the Larvae of Mosq^dtoes [C. pipiens, C. annulatus) At the ordinary temperature (18° to 20° C.) Maximum No. Substances adopted. Duration in Life of Larvse. 1 Tobacco leaves saturated, watery in- 3 hours. 2 3 Potash per mille Chrysanthemum powder (unexpanded * .. flowers), 0113 per mille 7 „ i Corrosive sublimate, 1 per mille . 10 „ 6 Chrysanthemum powder (second qual- ity), 0-00 per mille .... ^2 6 Sulphurous water, non-saturated 12 „ 7 8 Salt water (5-10 per mille, NaCL). Extract of tobacco of commerce at 15 „ 10 per mille 20 „ 9 Bisulphites of soda and of potash, 1 20 „ 10 Sulphate of copper, 1 per cent 24 „ 11 Sulphate of iron, 1 per cent . 24 „ 12 Tar, 10 per cent 30 „ 13 A mmoniacal water of coal-gas *5 14 Milk of lime, b per cent 48 ,, 15 Sulphuric acid, 1 per mille . 48 ,, 16 Potassium bichromate, 2-m2S04 3-1 48 ,, 17 Valerian root, saturated watery in- 72 ,, 18 Bitter quassia .... 72 ., 19 Solanum nigrum 72 ,, 20 Daphne quidium 72 ,, 21 Sodium sulphate saturated, watery 72 ,, 22 Potassium permanganate, 5 per mille. 72 ,, Table B (after Celli) Action of Culicidal Substances on the Larvce and Nymphce of Mosquitoes (C. pipiens, C. annulatus) At the ordinary temperature (18° to 20" C.) Maximum Duration in Life. No. Substances used. Larva). Nymphs. 1 Saturated sulphurous water (SOj) 25 m. 2 Potassium permanganate, 0-3H-HCL, 5 per mille . 15 m 1 h. 3 Salt water (saturated water. sol NaCL) .... 30 m 1 h 4 Chrysanthemum powder {un- expanded flowers) 1 h. 15 m Ih. 35 m. 5 Chrysanthemum powder (second quality) . 2 h 3 m 3 h. 6 Petroleum, c.c. 0'20 in ICQ c.mg. of surface 1 n. 4 h Potassium permanganate, 2 per cent .... 4 11. 8 h g Ammonia 2 per cent 5 h 6 h. g Oil (very thin stratum cover- ing the whole surface of the water) ..... 6 h. 4 h. 10 Petroleum, c.c. 0*10 per 100 c.m*^. of surface . . . 6h. 6h. 11 Potassium permanganate, 1*5 6h. 18 h. per cent .... 12 Chrysanthemum powder (un- expanded flowers), 0 006 9h. per mille .... 7 h. 13 Formalm (formaldehyde, 40 per cent) .... 8h. 12 h. 14 Carburet of lime, 10 per mille 8h. «h. 15 Chrysanthemum powder (second quality), 0'06 per 12 h. mille 11 h. 16 Lysol, O'l to 0'5 per cent 12 h. 24 h. 17 Milk of lime, 10 per cent 24 h. 36 h. 18 Commercial chloride of lime. 1 per cent .... 24 h. 48 h. 19 Commercial chloride of lime, 1 per mille .... 36 h. 60 h. 20 Potassium bichromate, 1 per mille 48 h. 60 h. 21 Potassium permanganate, 1 72 h. per cent .... 48 h. Their results are as tabulated; the ideal larvicide, however, has yet to be found. It should be cheap, difi^usible, non-volatile, and non - poisonous to man, to domestic animals, and to vegetation. Paraffin and tar are both efficient larvicides, but, on account of their volatile nature, require to be renewed at fre- quent intervals. These substances act by forming a thin layer on the surface of the water, and so preventing the access of air to the larvse and pupae. Celli has obtained good results from th use of the aniline colours (the best of which are larvicide), a proprietary pre- paration, green malachite, and gallol. These substances are readily diffusible and non-volatile. Celli found they destroyed larvae after two days. Milk of lime and sea water have also been found effectual. In some districts it may be possible to utilise some waste product or some metallic ore that is at hand. Experi- ments are wanted in this direction. The young larvae are most easily destroyed; the eggs, adult larvae, and pupae are more resistant to larvicidal substances. Pupae are, however, readily destroyed by any substance that prevents their access to oxygen.147 MALARIA 1-42= -39= I !: |. -37° Shlfi-ed at Stationers HaU Pnrtt^-d and Publish p/i by 'Wodderr^porn A C9 7 5trip StrnftLiiuyitns Irwt Chart I.—Fi-om a case of benign tertian malaria. Goulds CUnicol Chart Bowels Urine 107" 106° 105' 104-' 1103° ^ 102° I 1101 100° 99° Simnal \ tmpe-raZ , fbodv \ 'm 97° Dayoflhs Pulse,, liesp Date. AM P M A M P M AM P M AM P M AM P M AM P M AM P h 1 4- 8 IE 4 8 112 4- 8 12 8 12 4- 8 12 4-8 12 4- 8 12 4 8 i; 4 8 12 4 8 IE 4 8:12 4 8:12 4 8 12 41 8 12 ■ 5 o t tr -I At fj /t JL. -42° -40° -39° -36° l-35° £ni€rcd- at Stattarters ScCU PrinJxd.endI*ubliehad.byVaddtTspeonAC* 7,Serl^ StnatZuiooIni Inn.. Chart II,—iTrom a case of quartan malaria. GouldJt Cltmcal Chart148 MALARIA The breeding-places outside towns will gener- ally be more difficult to deal with. They may r-42° Chart III.—From a case of malignant malaria. consist of marshes, ravines, lakes, streams, rivers, springs, canals, irrigated lands, etc.. / lOS* lOS" lO 2 < i lo 6 2 ^ 6 2 : to 4 4 ;ale. IM" -f . ■ •to- ui _i CO I0»' \ i C 9 D SC/ HEir lOr \ -■ \- 39' ?ADE z UJ a: lOI' 1 -1 \ \ ; CENTIGF FAH lOO- L 36' URE V 1 iTURE RAT 99- s 1 \ i 37' UI FEMPE 86- 97' V --\ J t TEMP 4 if J Chart IV.—From a case of douMe benign tertian. One flfteen-grain dose of quinine was given on the fourth day, converting the fever into a single tertian. which would necessitate the outlay of large sums of money in order to render them un- suitable as breeding - places for the Anopheles. In every case, however, a medical officer should make a thorough survey of his district and prepare a map showing the spots where the Anopheles have been found, and he should cause the pools and other small col- lections of water near dwellings to be dealt with. All compounds should be in- spected at fre- quent intervals to see that they are properly drained and levelled. Houses should be kept s c r u p u lously clean; nothing tends to harbour mosquitoes more than old cob- webs. The destruc- tion of the aerial mosquito is, as a rule, not such an easy matter. In places where mosquitoes hibernate during some part of the year, they should be diligently searched for in houses, out-houses, caverns, etc., and destroyed They can be killed mos readily by fumi gation by burn ing tobacco leaves, pyreth rum, larvicide and many other substances. The Protection of Man from the Bites of Mosqui toes.—If an indi vidual living in a m a 1 a r i o u coimtry could always remain in a mosquito-proof house, from sun set to sunrise he would prob Unfortunately, this can In permanent stations can be made mosquito -40'= -59= -37° ably escape malaria, not always be done, however, the housesMALARIA 149 T / loe- 106* 2 2 e 2l £"5 7 1 "S"!] ;ale 104- «• LE. CO CO 103- SCA HEIT lOZ- I-- r \ 39' (ADE RENI lor t K — CENTIGR FAH lOS- 38- UJ EC jj. -1 i -1 TURE :rat -l -\ . 37* ERA TEMPE 88- 97- -f / V TEMP > 36- proof, and, by the use of an efficient mos- quito-net, under other circumstances the lia- bility to the bites of mosquitoes can be reduced to a minimum. In the day-time, in places where mosquitoes are known to abound, gloves and a mask should be used. The result of the experiments that have been carried on during this sum- O AM PM A INrt PM Ah/ mer and autumn in the Roman Campagna by the English Commission, by Grassi, and by Celli tends to in- dicate that one of the chief pro- phylactic agents that will be directed against malaria in the near future will be the employ- ment of mos- quito-proof houses. Various substances which are distasteful to mosquitoes may be applied to skin, such as essential oils, paraffin, quinine ointment, etc. Smoking, no doubt, tends to keep the insects off. Punkahs and lamp traps also serve a useful purpose. As infected indi- viduals are the source of infection to others, they should be avoided or protected by mos- quito-nets ; and as native villages and houses are always infected, it follows that their neighbour- hood is danger- ous for residence or camping. The Malarial Parasite can be attacked in its Human Host.— We have already seen that it is the gamete cells which are the source of infec- tion through the agency of the mosquito; but as these bodies only make their appearance in the peripheral blood after asexual forms have appeared, we must take every means possible to destroy the latter as soon as possible and prevent relapses of fever. An infected individual should avoid all depressing in- fluences, such as wetting, chills, sun exposure, exhaustion, bad food—in short, his hygienic surroundings should be made as perfect as possible. When relapses do occur they must be promptly treated with quinine; early specific treatment tends to reduce the number of the gamete cells formed, and it may often prevent their appearance in the peripheral circulation altogether. In some malarious countries—Italy, for ex- Chart V.—From a case of malignant tertian malaria, illustrating the long pyrexial period and the short apyrexial interval. Note the preliminary rise and partial fall—the precritical rise and false crisis. ample—if the occurrence of relapses could be entirely prevented, malaria would be probably stamped out in a single year. It is the re- lapses, probably, which give rise to the new infections at the commencement of each malarial season. Quinine is, no doubt, of some use as a 9t Chart VI.—Quotidian malignant malaria. (After Bignarai, Rome.) prophylactic against malarial attacks ; the dose, however, requires to be as much as five grains daily. This, in some individuals, brings about disturbances of digestion and of the nervous system. Arsenic, in the hands of the Italians, has given good results. Methylene blue and euchinin have not yet been employed on a sufficiently large scale to judge of their prophy- lactic value. No drug at present is known that L.150 MALARIA will cause the disappearance of the gamete cells from the blood. Koch and others have observed that it is the children in a community who are the chief source of danger. Blood examinations of native children in malarious districts should therefore be undertaken and quinine administered sys- tematically ; at first free of cost, but as soon as the natives learn to appreciate its value they can be made to pay for it. When natives once grasp the fact that mosquitoes cause malaria, some of them will no doubt co-operate with the Europeans in attempts made to exterminate these insects. Ma.la.rin.—An antipyretic preparation; acetophenonephenetidin citrate. Malassez' Disease. —Cystic disease of the testicle. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of (Tumours, General Cystic Disease). Mai ass i m i B at i O n.—Defective assimi- lation, as seen in wasting diseases. Male.—One of the male sex ; belonging to the sex which performs the function of begetting in reproduction. In the description of instru- ments, male blade or male screw indicates the blade or pin which fits into or is received into the other one (named the female). Male Fern, See Filix Mas. Malformation.—A structural anomaly or abnormal development of a part or organ of the body ; it is commonly used to indicate minor anomalies in contradistinction to major or gross anomalies which are termed monstrosities or terata. See Teratology ; Labour, Precipi- tate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deforinities) ; Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifice and Septum {Malformations of Septum); Uterus, Malfor- mations OF the ; ETC. Malg^aig'ne's Hernia.—An infantile hernia; one due to persistence of the vaginal process of peritoneimi. Malg^aig^ne'S Hooks.—An instru- ment for holding the fragments of a fractured patella in apposition, now hardly ever used. See Knee-Joint, Injuries of {Patella, Fracture, Treatment). Malic Acid. —An acid (C^HpOg) ob- tained from unripe apples (Lat. malum, an apple), currants, grapes, and other fruit; it forms salts (malates) such as calcium malate and potassium malate. It can be made artifi- cially by acting on bromosuccinic acid with moist silver oxide, hydroxyl replacing the bromine; and, indeed, malic acid is really hydroxysuccinic acid, C2H3(OH)(COOH),,. Malignancy. —The state of being malignant, fatal to life, or cancerous. See Malignant. Malignant Disease.—Markedly virulent or almost always fatal to life ; cancerous or sarcomatous in relation to tumours ; the car- cinomata and sarcomata are termed malignant growths, and have the characters of rapid growth, return after removal, and metastasis to distant organs. See also Adrenal Glands (Other Diseases, Tumcnirs) ; Anemia {Causes); Anthrax ; Appendix Vermiformis {Cancerous Disease) ; Bladder, Injuries and Diseases of (2\imours, Carcinoma) ; Bone, Diseases of (7V 7nours, Sarcoma) ; Cachexia {Cancerous) ; Chlo- rosis (Diagnosis); Choroid, Diseases of {Sar- coma); Cicatrices {Malignant Diseases of); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Tumours); Fallopian Tubes (Cancer, Sarcoma); Fragilitas Ossium (Causes); Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts, Dis- eases OF {Tumours); Gangrene (Infective) ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Malignant Endocarditis); Intestines, Diseases of (Malignant Disease); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Timiours); Kidney, Surgical Affections op {Tumours); Larynx, Malignant Diseases of ; Liver, Diseases of (Malignant Disease); Liver, Diseases of (Weil's Disease, Malignant Jaundice) ; Malaria (Malignant Ma- larial Fever); Malignant Pustule ; Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Neoplasms, Malignant); Mediastinum (Growths, Malignant); Mouth, Diseases of the (Epithelioma of the Lips, Cheeks, Gums; Tumours of the Jaw); Muscles, Diseases of (JVeiv Growths in Muscle); Nerves, Peri- pheral {Tumours); Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum (Alalignant Growths of Nasal Fossae); Oesophagus (Growths, Malig- nant) ; Orbit, Diseases of {Tumours); Ovaries, Diseases of (Tumours, Sarcoma and Carci- noma) ; Palate {Tumours, Malignant) ; Pan- creas, Diseases of (Malignant); Parotid Gland, Disorders op {Tumours); Penis, Surgical Affections of {Neiv Growths); Peritoneum (Malignant Disease); Pregnancy, Haemorrhage (From Tumo%brs, Malignant) ; Prostate Gland (Tumo^vrs, Malignxint); Vvrpura (Symptomatic, Cachectic); Purpura (Werlhof's Purpura); Radium ; Rectum, Diseases of the {Cancer); Retina and Optic Nerve {Tumours of Optic Nerve) ; Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases op {Epithelioma of Scrotum, Sarcoma and Carci- noma of Testis); Smallpox (Clinical Variations, Malignant Type); Spinal Cord, Medical {New Grotvths); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of (Symptomatology and Treatment of Cancer); Stomach, Surgical Affections op (Cancer); Syphilis (Tertiary, Malignant); Thymus Gland (Diseases, Tumours) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical (Malignant Disease) ; Thyroid Gland, Surgery of (Malignant Disease); Tongue (Carcijioma); Tongue (Sarcoma); Tumours (Connective Tissue Type, EpiiheliaV); Tumours, Inoperable, Treat-151 MALIGNANT DISEASE MBNT OP; Tumours of the Skin ; Urethra, Diseases op {Tumours, Maligimnt); Uterus, Malignant Tumours of ; Vagina, Disorders OP (Sarcoma, Carcinoma); X-Rays. Malig'nant Pustule (Cutaneous Anthrax). See also Anthrax. Definition.—A local lesion produced by the penetration of the anthrax bacillus or of its pores into the skin. This local affection may be followed or not by general infection (" Splenic Fever "). Historical.—Good descriptions of this disease have been given by various ancient writers, but it was not till 1769 that Fournier of Dijon recognised its relation to the handling of hair and wool from various animals. In 1864 and 1865 Davaine demonstrated the presence of the bacillus of anthrax in malignant pustules re- moved by excision. Since then good descrip- tions of this lesion and of its development have been given by Wagner, Koch (1876), Turner (1882), Cornil and Babes (1885), Straus (1887), etc. Etiology.—The bacillus generally invades the skin through a wound, sometimes very slight; the wound may be infected at the time it is produced, or a simple wound may afterwards become infected by coming in contact with products containing the bacillus. The persons most liable to infection are :— 1. Those coming frequently in contact with animals liable to anthrax: drovers, shepherds, farmers, farriers, veterinary surgeons, etc., who are exposed to the bites or stings of insects that may have sucked the blood of living—or rested on the blood or flesh of dead—animals affected with anthrax. The bite of a dog which had recently fed on such a carcase has been known to communicate the disease. 2. Persons who have to handle the carcases of animals (or more rarely the bodies of patients that have died of splenic fever), knackers, butchers, pathologists, etc. In such cases the skin of the hands, arms, face, neck, shoulders, and back is most liable to infection. 3. Those who handle various animal products, such as offal, skins, hoofs, horns, hair, wool, etc., among whom may be mentioned tanners, fell- mongers, wool and hair workers, rag-sorters, etc. The products which communicate the disease in such cases are usually contaminated with blood containing the anthrax bacillus. This organism, in the presence of air and moisture, and at summer's temperature, rapidly produces spores which adhere to the soiled articles. As those spores are very resisting, infection may be carried to considerable distances and after long intervals of time. Description of the Malignant Pustule.—There is usually only one spot infected, but cases may occur in which two or even more malignant pustules develop simultaneously. For from one to three days after inoculation there is usually no other evidence of danger than the wound, often insignificant, through which the microbe has penetrated. (Incubation period.) Then in the space of twenty-four to thirty hours (second period) a small pimple rapidly followed by a vesicle is formed. The vesicle is filled with clear or blood-stained brownish fluid, in which bacilli are usually found in large numbers; they are also found penetrating into the surrounding epithelium and into the sub- jacent swollen papillae of the true skin. The formation of this vesicle is accompanied by a pricking or itching sensation; there may be very little local or general disturbance. During the third stage, which usually lasts only one or two days, and may even be shorter, marked induration of the tissues under the vesicle becomes manifest. The patch of induration is flattened and of a livid colour; it indicates the beginning of necrosis. Around the livid patch an oedematous swelling appears, forming a kind of pale or congested areola, the characters of which have been well described by Chaussier. At the margin of this swollen ring secondary vesicles may form, and these sometimes run more or less completely together. The central vesicle collapses, and is replaced by a brownish, or nearly black eschar composed of blood-stained tissues which have undergone necrosis under the influence of the bacilli, which may sometimes be clearly recognised in this crust-like mass. At this stage, however, the bacillus is generally most abundant at the margin of the eschar and in the adjacent lymphatic spaces. After this the dark slough increases more or less rapidly in size, its advancing margin being preceded by a zone of congestion and oedema, which may be comparatively limited or involve an extensive surface. At this stage (fourth stage), it is frequently difficult to demonstrate the presence of the bacillus anthracis in the necrosed or diseased tissues, which have become invaded by common organisms of putrefaction and pyogenic bacteria. A considerable degree of inflammatory re- action, and suppuration when they occur, indi- cate the action of the pyogenic and other microbes. The actual size of the so-called " pustule " is variable; the danger to life is not proportional to the size of the lesion. Human tissues offer considerable resistance to invasion by the anthrax bacillus, so that in many cases tlie infection remains local and does not seriously threaten life. Penetration of the bacilli into the blood-stream may, however, occur at any time and give rise to the very fatal anthrax septicaemia (anthracaemia). Dr. Hamer has collected a number of cases152 MALIGNANT PUSTULE which had been observed in London between the years 1873 and 1893, and states that of the cases in which the neck was the seat of the lesion about 40 per cent died ; of those on which other parts of the skin were affected, 12 per cent terminated fatally. In the Bradford district, out of 27 cases observed from 1880 to 1894, 13, or about 50 per cent, succumbed. Treatment.—Excision at as early a date as possible is the method of treatment generally adopted in this country. The incision should be made, as far as possible, through healthy tissues, in any case at least ^ inch from the margin of the eschar. Irrigation and treatment of the wound with 1 in 20 carbolic lotion, 1 in 1000 perchjoride of mercury solution, or bin- iodide of mercury solution, have been specially recommended. Hypodermic injections of spe- cially prepared solutions of the same salts have also been used. In several coimtries where malignant pustule is prevalent the old treatment by the actual cautery is in favour, and it is possible that when thoroughly carried out this mode of treatment presents some advantages over the excision method which may at times favour general infection. Maling^ering^. Definition, etc. . . . . .152 Historical . . . . . .152 Motives for . . . . . .153 General Considerations . . .154 Nervous Mimicry . . . . .156 Malingering (Deliberate and Planned) . 157 Varieties— Cutaneous . . . . .158 Wounds . . . . .158 Contractures . . . .159 Tenosynovitis . . . .159 Joints and Bones . . . .159 Circulatory . . . . .160 Respiratoi-y . . . . .160 Digestive . . . . .160 Tumours ..... 161 Speech. ..... 161 JVose, Eyes, etc. . . . .161 Genito-urinary . . . .161 Nervous Diseases . . . .162 Nervous Shock . . . .162 Fits 163 Epilepsy 163 Insanity . . . . .164 Cautions and Remarks . . . .165 See also Haemoptysis {Diagnosis, Spurious Haemoptysis); Hysteria ; Nails, Affections of {Malingering); Neurasthenia ; Skin, Pigmen- tary Affections of {Spurious Pigmentations); Spine, Surgical Affections of {Railway Spine, Diagnosis). Definition.—The word " malingering " is de- rived, through the French malingre, from the Latin malus oeger, and denotes a bad or base form of indisposition. By the term " malingering" is meant any purely voluntary simulation of illness, and this may be exhibited as either a mere pretence, or as an exaggeration of some already existing ailment, or as a morbid state or wound entirely produced by artificial means. Pretended cases are termed fictitious, and purposely produced cases are termed factitious. There are many cases where voluntary malingering and involun- tary simulation are blended in the same subject, in which condition we liave nervous mimicry associated with malingering. And the practi- tioner who desires to acquire a scientific and accurate knowledge of malingering must differ- entiate very carefully nervous symptoms from those which are voluntarily feigned. It has become customary of late years to cloak under the term "neurasthenia" many cases of clear voluntary imposture; and whilst we fully appreciate the vagaries and erratic action which an exhausted, or concussed, or shocked nervous system may indulge in, we see with regret a tendency to a confusion of nervous with voluntary phenomena. This is more pro- nounced in the French schools of medicine than in our own, and we must maintain a level judgment in each case of obscure symptoms which meets us, and not be carried away from the practical issue by any too dogmatic or scholastic considerations. It is true that up to some twenty years ago the luistake was made of not attributing enough to the uninhibited nervous system in cases of nerve break-down; but we are in danger now of passing to the other extreme, and of making the neuroses responsible for too much. When some would have us view common robbery and misdemeanour as the frequent result of " ambulatory automatism" ; when we have arrived at a point where a coimty court judge can give a financial verdict to a man whose friends attribute a paralysis of the brain with rapidly ensuing dementia to a small injury to the foot, the time is come when we should pause and consider where modern neurology is leading us to. Historical.—Malingering, like any other form of deceit, is no new thing. In the Scrip- tures we read of Rachel simulating indisposition in order to facilitate the concealment of the stolen idols of Laban. King David feigned madness to avoid danger. In profane history we read of Solon feigning mania with a patriotic motive. Cardinal Montalto feigned extreme debility and decay as a means of obtaining the papacy on the death of Gregory XIII., and under circumstances when the conclave of cardinals would not have elected a prelate likely to be long-lived. And we are told that as soon as Montalto became "Sextus V.," he declared his successful imposture to the cardinals and to153 MALINGERING the world, by assuming an erect and vigorous posture, and by singing in stentorian tones the " Te Deum ! " Essex, the favourite of Elizabeth, feigned illness to procure the queen's compassion. Gustavus Adolphus IV. of Sweden simulated a wound of the leg. We are told by Rodericus a Castre that in 1588 Portuguese soldiers and sailors " made themselves ill, and caused themselves to be bled," to avoid service against the English. Fodere, referring to the time when, in France, the conscription pressed heavily on the youth of the country, says that "the art of feigning disease was brought to such perfection as to render it as difficult to detect a feigned as to cure a real disease." And in the Diaries of a Lady of Quality we are told that Queen Caroline, when a girl of sixteen, being prevented by her mother, the Duchess of Brunswick, from attend- ing balls, feigned pregnancy and created a court scandal, caused the accoucheur to be summoned, and, having whitened her face and made a great display of apparent suffering, finally bounded from her bed and exclaimed to her mother, " Will you keep me another time from a ball 1" Motive.—Motive of some kind is always present in cases of pure malingering; and often too in the mimicries of the hysterical and neurasthenic, motive also comes into play. When we have neurotic subjects to deal with we must endeavour to separate the voluntary from the involuntary manifestations. The insane, by the way, can malinger, unless too far gone in dementia; and the writer has seen hallucinations clearly assumed by a highly educated prisoner who was being examined in consultation with a view to his liberation, as a remedial measure for genuine threatening mental break-down; the patient evidently wished to assist the writer in demonstrating the desirability of release. His hallucinations were discounted in the prognosis. His speedy release, recommended owing to his actual state, was followed by mental recuperation. The chief motives occur as follows :— {a) Prisoners or Persons awaiting Trial.—In the case of prisoners much can be gained by the successful feigning of disease. Diets are improved; comforts and the ease of hospital secured; change of air may be obtained by removal to an infirmary station. Release may follow the establishment of a "mental weakness." Punishments may be avoided where the plea of irresponsibility is successfully suggested. Many criminals prefer the indulgence enjoyed in a lunatic asylum to the discipline of the gaol. And if once a criminal can establish a record of "insanity," or even of "epilepsy," he knows how valuable such a stigma may be to him, if his future career should happen to bring him into the dock on a charge of murder. In the management of prisoners greater stress should be laid upon the prevention of unde- served "insane histories" being acquired by certain very wide-awake and healthy criminals. The death penalty is convertible into imprison- ment if a family history of insanity is procurable. Irresponsibility upon mental grounds forms a very welcome cloak for persons in good posi- tion charged with indecent conduct, and here the motive for " insane" malingering may be immense. Nor must it be forgotten that any advancing and " incurable " disease can in these days of exaggerated humanitarianism obtain a prisoner his release. And it is a matter of common official knowledge that " incurable" cases which have been released sometimes return very rapidly with a new sentence for a new crime, and in excellent health, only to fall into an " incurable" state once more on passing through the prison gates ! (6) Financial Gain.—Where monetary gain can follow malingering, the motive is naturally very strong. Hence we see much exaggeration and some very clear absolute malingering attempted by claimants in various kinds of insurance cases for " accidents." Probably the most distinct malingering is met with in claims after a railway accident. Many very dishonest claims and grossly exaggerated symptoms are presented after slight street accidents; and amongst workmen claiming against employers we see a great tendency to exaggeration and protraction of disablement, sometimes truly due to " traumatic neurasthenia," but very often due to the newly acquired dislike for labour induced by the enforced idleness necessitated by a surgical injury. (c) Pensions and Benefits from Clubs and Charitable Societies. — The unduly early ac- quisition of a Government pension, or the desire to unfairly enjoy other benefits, often acts as a motive for simulation or exaggeration. {d) Soldiers and Sailors.—In the army and navy malingering used to be of very common occurrence. Self-mutilation even was often practised in order to avoid active service. Rheumatism, madness, and the like were simu- lated in order thereby to evade discipline and duties. An improved regard for the well-being of the men has lessened these occurrences. Still malingering occurs in the services, and must be borne in mind. (e) Beggars and Tramps.—Alms and sympathy are sought by these persons by a display of loathsome sores, wounds, wasted limbs, and the like, which are often self-induced. The "fits" of such persons demand the closest scrutiny before being accepted as genuine. Especially should we view with the greatest suspicion " fits " which occur at moments when sympathy and practical benefit are likely to accrue to the sufferers. Thus, too, when a prisoner in the dock has a "fit" we should remember how valuable, as a bid for sympathy, such a mani- festation may be. (/) Imitation is almost involuntarily productiveMALINGERING 154 of malingering in some neuropathic subjects, especially in connection with epileptic fits. {g) Children sometimes find the motive for simulation in the desire to avoid lessons or to wreak vengeance upon teachers who have punished them. And cases are on record of children malingering very cimningly and ob- stinately, and with a knowledge of symptoms beyond that which we should a •priori credit them with. Generally, however, the phenomena indicate in these young subjects a distinct nervous pathogenesis with marked neurotic taint, which should be considered in our treatment. In addition to the above-named motives, which chiefly affect the humbler classes of the community, we must remember that, just as popes and kings have malingered on occasions, we must not be surprised to find cases arise amongst the generally well-to-do classes. General Considerations.—Since when mal- ingering is met with in practice it is not heralded by any warning, but comes upon us quite unexpectedly, we shoidd acquire the habit of automatically looking for any bizarre and strange symptoms in our routine work; and this attitude need not entail any suspicion in our habit of observation, any more than it would be "suspicious" to habitually, in a febrile or doubtful case, examine the urine for albumin. When any strange symptoms strike us, our mind should naturally conceive the possibility of malingering. And being thus ready to appi-eciate any peculiarities in signs or symptoms, we shall grasp the significance of &mall phenomena in such a way as to often obtain clues, which if lost at the moment may not occur again. For it is a fact that if we once accept a feigned case as genuine, and commence its treatment on corresponding lines, we are very liable to continue progress in the vicious circle which has become established. Thus a man who had something to gain by illness, and who had been treated for some years as the subject of diabetes, and had been certified to that effect by some physicians of repute, was found to be a confirmed and most persistent malingerer. This discovery was made merely through an habitual custom on the observer's part of taking no disease for granted, until elements of error in diagnosis had been removed. The grocer's shop may be the source of the sugar in the urine ! It often happens that some very trifling matter will warn us of the propinquity of malingering, if we have acquired the habit of close observation of details. Thus an ostenta- tious array of medicine bottles, an unnecessary amount of bandages around a part, an excessive limp, an appearance of undue pain upon some simple manipulative examination—any of these signs may suggest the fraud. It will be often found that the natural pain due to a stated injury can, in a malingerer, be transferred by the examiner to a new locality by the mere process of making a pretence of having mistaken the locality of lesion; thus a malingerer who complains of a tender lumbar region will often, at the end of an examination so conducted, have transferred his complaint to the costal region, or even in some cases to the scapular region. We should inquire as to the stated origin of an injury, or the cause of an illness, and gauge very carefully the consistency of the cause and effect. We should make the patient state his own subjective sensations, and we should not ask leading questions. We should compare opposite sides of the body very closely for alterations of outline, and we should habitually measure and so verify observations of size, and apparent anomalies of masses and bony points. We should allow ample time for temporary abnormalities, such as palpitations, sweatings, or dyspnoeas, to subside, where it is possible that they have been voluntarily induced. We must study closely the relation of the stated subjective symptoms to what should be truly present in a given case of disease. The thermo- meter is a valuable ally. We should remember the relation between bodily weight and health. Facial expression, fine tremors (which are visually genuine), and coarse tremblings (which are generally assumed), and the entire present- ment of the patient must be noted closely. In inquiring into doubtful cases of insanity we shall find facial expression, "subject-conscious- ness," and " object - consciousness " in their varying degrees of much instructive moment. The degrees of memory, humour, quickness of reflex or alertness, both physical and mental; the presence or absence of emotional conditions ; the varying degrees of control; absence or presence of explosive temper; formation of head; absence or presence of the stigmata of degeneration, of old head injuries, of pupillary inequalities, listlessness of manner, regard or disregard of personal appearance ;—all these and other objective details should be observed and valued. Certain manifestations cannot be voluntarily sustained for any time without remission in the healthy person. Of these, insomnia, the ravings of a maniacal simulation, and abstinence from food are examples; though malingerers of insanity will sometimes carry abstinence to great lengths. It must be here remarked that a voluntary abandonment of inhibition, with a long-continued simulation of maniacal manifestations, may render the resumption of normal inhibition im- possible, and so induce a really lowered intel- lectual calibre ; and also a protracted intentional simulation of dementia with disregard of personal cleanliness and of all the decencies does, certainly at times, conduce to a real permanent mental inertia. A limb long disused will atrophy,155 MALINGERING and so will the ccrebro-spinal centres lose tone by a prolonged disuse. Hence we see here the process of feigned mental disease inducing real pathological mental conditions similar to the morbid physical conditions induced by a prolonged invalidism and confinement which, assumed and voluntarily incurred at first, may lead to phthisis through the degenerating influences at work. It is this real danger to the malingerer himself which constitutes one of the chief reasons why we should practise the early detection of feigned conditions. A certain mystery of method is an important element in the searching for evidences of malingering; and it is well, when inquiring into a suspected case, to wear a mask, so to speak, by disguising one's special object' and interest in the matter in hand. In this way we put our subject off his guard. If we allow ourselves to evince amusement at a ridiculous and compromising action or statement, the malingerer will cease to play his part freely, and he may "mask" his performance. But as our great object must always be to induce a malingerer to over-act his drama, we must bring this about by very subtle and diplomatic means, which must never be apparent to the impostor until he has so extravagantly overdone his part as to himself appreciate that he has betrayed himself to us in his over-confidence. A very direct and logical cross-questioning of the subject as to his subjective symptoms should be practised, as thereby most ridiculously dis- connected statements will often be obtained, whilst by a demeanour which shows no sign of our commencing incredulity, the schemer may be gradually led into a veritable ambush in which he will entangle himself in his incongruities. Great personal responsibility must at times be courageously borne by the practitioner who aims at becoming expert in unravelling and upsetting malingered plans, since there are occasions when we have to form our opinion firmly and to take appropriate action on the spot; as where the writer was convinced that a malingering convict would still further malinger when undergoing corporal punishment conse- quent on his most disorganising and flagrant pretended self-injuries and insubordination, and the man persisted in this up to the time of his being sentenced to the " cat." This man be- came pale with the first three strokes of the punishment, a natural consequence of the shock. But to this pallor he added the appearance of syncope, or, indeed, of a condition to suggest to the lay mind death. He created a very terrible spectacle. The writer being prepared for any degree of imposture in this case, caused the lashes to be arrested while the man's pulse and conjunctival reflex were examined, and while he in various ways corroborated a pre- formed opinion as to the malingered nature of the display. The punishment was then allowed to recommence. Another heavy lash of tlie cat was responded to only by the inert human mass shaking to the weight of the blow, lying there limp and motionless strapped to the flogging triangle! Another lash was ordered and yet another, when suddenly the man stretched his muscles and swore at the doctor, and com- menced to sing a vulgar popular song, which he continued until the end of his allotted number of lashes, bearing the punishment without any further signs of undue inconvenience. Of course this is an example of an extreme case of assumption of responsibility, but had it been shirked an epidemic of malingering would have followed the success of that notorious impostor. In other very definite ways one has sometimes to risk one's reputation on one's opinion, and he who will not take this risk need not hope to be successful in upsetting malingered plans. Apart from the possibility of a wrong diagnosis, which should not terrorise us if we have experience and use sound jvidgment in the cases in question, we have always to take the infinitesimal risk of some new and sudden lesion arising to put an undeserved aspect of error upon our diagnosis; as when an undoubted and ridiculous malingerer, who had acknowledged his fraud, subsequently, while still in hospital, lapsed into a comatose state, and died of a small aneurysmal rupture in the base of the brain. In the military and naval services and in prisons it constitutes a large part of pure duty that the doctors should acquire, and, boldly if cautiously, use a wide experience in arresting malingering ■ and, of course, officers in these spheres of practice have the opportunity of gaining this kind of expertness. On the other hand, the general practitioner has not the same inducement of duty to inculcate an ever-present readiness to detect and combat imposture. Nor can he have the same opportunity of seeing numerous cases ; nor can it be demanded of the family doctor that he should attack malingering with such courage as ought to characterise public servants. Most cases of unchecked malingering are so, merely because a critical stage is reached in the plan of detection or upsetting, where the doctor becomes unduly timid. Cowardice comes into play when only extreme caution should be added to the same firm demeanour which has gone before., We are actually now treating of a method of scientific procedure which might well be termed detective medicine," and finesse, astuteness and proper valuation of small indica- tions only lead up to the stage where, so to speak, an actual "arrest" has to be made ; and then the point is reached where great moral courage and readiness to assume heavy responsi- bility must sometimes come into play. In checking and giving one's final opinion upon insane malingering the highest degree of this courage is called for, so great is the responsi-MALINGERING 156 bility assumed by the certification of sanity, and the coincident assumption of the moral responsi- bility for any consequences that may ensue when the malingerer is allowed to be at large. Before proceeding to treat in detail of cases of pure malingering it appears necessary to touch upon the subject of nervous mimicry, since its manifestations are often so very closely related to those of absolute voluntary simula- tion ; and the subject of this article would be imperfectly reviewed if we omitted to include in our picture some features of the less voluntary and the truly pathological kind of mimicry. Nervous Mimicry or Neuro-Mimesis.—The neuroses associated with Aysierm and neurasthenia are responsible for some of the most confusing and misleading instances of simulated disease, in which some of the symptoms are undoubtedly often assumed intentionally and with motives. There is no specially privileged prerogative en- joyed by the neurasthenic or hysterical subject which renders him impervious to base or trivial motives ; hence we must not be led away by the idea that a person has only to be afflicted with one of these neuroses to ensure his acting, as far as his will can go, honourably. Now, our duty is to decide which phenomena and complaints are due to the neurosis, and which to oblique motives. The reader would do well, in this connection, to study the articles " Hysteria " and " Neuras- thenia " in other parts of this Encyclopedia. In these actual neuro-cachectic conditions we meet with examples of simulated morbid states which present the subjective symptoms of almost every conceivable ailment, and which frequently run courses so protracted as to induce real organic disease, as the outcome of the exhaust- ing effects of the accompanying circumstances. Moreover, the verisimilitudes met with are often most difficult to disentangle from the real facts, as the patient's nervous system, running riot through deficient inhibitory control, takes the bit between its teeth, as it were, and more or less automatically lets loose symptoms and signs so various and so obscure as to often baffle and defeat our attempts at a correct diagnosis. Where factitious wounds and semi-voluntary deceit are superadded, we are confronted with the most difficult cases which we can be called upon to grapple with. Psychic, vaso motor, motor, and sensory functions may all become deranged in the same case, and the moral sense is frequently perverted at the same time. The simulation seen in neurasthenia is often associated with accidents which, through shock and fright, frequently produce this neurosis. Thus we have the tender spinal spots, the lethargic condition, emotional states, rigid backs, pains in joints, and so forth. Mental worry and suspense are the worst enemies of the neuras- thenic patient ; and thus it is that the "settle- ment " of their accident claims after injury. true or assumed, is very often followed by a rapid recovery. So remarkable are these re- coveries that we may sometimes be led to con- sider the past conditions as having been purely malingered, when nervous tension or exhaustion have actually been real and powerful factors in the case. Too great stress cannot be laid on the effect of mental perturbation and worry, with the constant suspense involved in litigation, with the harassing effects of frequent surgical and medical examinations by the patient's own and by strange medical men. We must also bear in mind that occasions arise through in- judicious leading questions put by well-meaning but not very wise practitioners, which operate as suggestions to these highly susceptible sufferers, whereby new subjective symptoms are set in motion. And if we add to these disorganising elements the not infrequent instances where the prospect of financial gain has too much engaged the neurasthenic's mind, and has so modified his correct sense of honour as to produce in him a course of conduct leaving a consciousness of deficient probity, where perhaps principle has for the first time become tainted; here we have a condition in which a " settlement" be- comes the only means of summoning back the better " ego" which can reinstate the self- respect and moral tone necessary for energetic and correct conduct. In this connection, in Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. viii., Mr. Victor Horsley has wisely urged that the doctors acting for plaintiff and defendant should meet in consultation over such cases before they proceed to court—a method which would prevent the frequent ma- lingering which results from the absence of this custom, as is too often seen. There is much of a subjective nature, and even of an objective kind, that can be winnowed out of these claims by courteous, courageous, and firm, logical, consultative comparison of opinions, a procedure which goes far to prepare such cases for the judicial decision in court; and even if the immediate result is not a " settlement out of court," we may at any rate avoid the discredit to our profession, due to the glaring discrep- ancies in evidence, which so often arise when doctors are confronted by barristers. In studying these neurasthenic cases, especi- ally in connection with railway and other acci- dents where compensation is claimed, we would refer the reader to the classic works of Erichsen and Page, which deal with the subject from somewhat opposing points of view, and those works have lost none of their usefulness by being now of a somewhat antiquated date. A perusal of those works, coupled with experience, will lead us to the conclusion that an apparently grave spinal concussion with subsequent ap- parently hopeless disablement may be recovered from, after months of surgical and medical attention have proved unavailing, directly a157 MALINGERING law-suit has resulted in substantial damages for the plaintiff. To cite another frequent example : an apparently almost insignificant strain of ligament, in connection with the vertebral column, may really entail consequences which lead to considerable and prolonged disablement. Hence we should approach any obscure case with a perfectly unbiassed mind, either in the patient's favour or against his supposed interests. Malingering (Deliberate and Planned).—In the selection of cases which follow, which is necessarily merely a brief one, we have drawn from past and modern medical records, and also from our own personal experience. A reference to the bibliography appended will enable the reader to augment his studies of cases. It must be understood here that the facility of detection of, and the ability to terminate, a scheme of imposture will depend entirely upon the personality of the individual practitioner. Medical, surgical, physiological, and psychologi- cal science is the basis of all correct detection, but success will follow only where a shrewd ob- servation is coupled with scientific knowledge, and where a certain natural faculty exists of making rapid logical conclusions from the objec- tive study of a case. Also a very versatile and ready resource is needed with which to follow up our suspicions with appropriate action, de- signed to outwit and confuse the impostor, who has set himself to outwit and confuse us. A smile, or a cough, or a flinch at an inappropriate moment will tell the tale of the feigner to the logically observant " detective" practitioner; and he will so rapidly back up his nascent suspicion by some act or suggestion which will induce some added inconsistency, that he will often become convinced of the fraud before him at once, while a less acute observer will be wasting his energies and time over some useless scientific investigations, which are only suggest- ing new items of feigned symptoms to the subtle mind of his patient. Science is excellent as an aid to prove our diagnosis of imposture sound ; but science used too early in an obscure case often diverts our mind from the fog-signals that explode from time to time around the malingerer, and which should be heard early by the in- vestigator. Thus it is not difficult for an impostor to simulate an exaggerated patellar reflex, which may cause the surgeon to spend half an hour in testing various kinds of deep and superficial reflexes and seeking for hyperaesthetic areas and so forth. But if, while thus engaged, the surgeon fails to apprehend the purport of a " wink " from the subject to his accompanying friend (in the fraud), all his science might as well be left at home ! Nor must we forget that a symptom malingered does not necessarily dis- prove real disease. It is impossible to convey any idea of how any particular case of malingering should be detected, just as it is useless to endeavour to lay down any laws for the reclaiming of a malingerer from his dishonest ways. Every case will present its weak points to the prac- titioner tvho can see them, and the adroit doctor will find a new method of upsetting each scheme that comes under his notice. The occasion will create the antidote. As to curative means, whereby we may hope to render impostors weary of their ways, we may suggest the following methods, which must be judiciously varied and added to so as to meet each individual case :— Judicious irony ; obviously exaggerated sym- pathy ; appeals to honour and proper pride; discomfort; cold shower baths, or hot baths with cold affusion to head, etc.; unpalatable diet; electrical " stimulation " ; deprivation of books and of all occupations; blisters followed by savin ointment to the denuded surface; strict confinement to bed in cases of feigned leg or feet injuries, etc. These and other un- welcome methods of therapeusis should be enjoined in such tones as to make it clear to the feigner that he is not deceiving us. It is often wise not to actually tell him he is acting fraudulently, but let him see clearly what our opinion is. We require his proper pride to assist us in eliciting honest action in the future from him, so we must not risk shaming him too much m our presence. It is frequently possible and diplomatic to gain the co-operation of a malingerer's friend, and to entrust him with the duty of informing the impostor of our perception of his dishonesty. Many malingerers will reward one for this con- sideration of their feelings by throwing up the battle, who would continue it if we hurt their proper pride by a too open personal charge of imposture. Hypnotism should perhaps have a useful place amongst the measures for disorganising plans of feigning ; but the true malingerer is generally of too strong a personality to lend himself readily to the " influence." This form of thera- peusis might be more efficient in neuro-mimesis. Varieties of Malinger^ing.—It is impossible, in an article of this length, to describe all the varieties of feigned disease; but it may be here said that almost every description of sub- jective and objective ailment has been feigned or produced. Apparently the science of malingering, either as practised by the subject or studied by the medical man, has not progressed or changed greatly during the last century, and ancient records will afford us as useful and practical assistance as more modern ones. In one way we have improved, for we now recognise more accurately in hysteria and the allied neuroses a pathological cause and excitant of the nervous forms of simulation. As sciences advance, the terms and phrases are introduced into the voca-MALINGERING 158 biliary and armamentarium of the malingerer in the same way that lunatics accommodate their delusions to electrical and astronomical and mechanical discoveries. Thus a new disease will soon find its feigners. We will now consider some typical varieties of malingering. Cutaneous.— The skin afibrds a ready field for fictitious lesions and eruptions, which have the advantage of not causing great inconvenience or, as a rule, any danger to life and health. Caustics, acids, and dyes are used, nitric acid and lime perhaps most frequently. Carbolic acid, tartar emetic ointment, croton oil, and various chemicals have been used for the pur- pose. Comedones, pustular eruptions, and even laminated and crusted lesions have been indviced —the latter by rubbing the skin persistently with the fingers moistened with saliva. Pem- phigus has been simulated by application of nitric acid. Bullae have been raised by can- tharides. Erythematous blushes may be feigned by dyes. The true nature of these phenomena may often be detected by observing the position of the lesions to be where the right hand can be most easily applied; thus the left forearm and the right thigh are places of selection. Ulcers are produced by lime, acids, and even by biting out portions of skin or by cutting them out. The skin lesions are usually asymmetrical and may be cured by immovable plaster-of- Paris casings, and if the case fits a little pain- fully in places, the " cure" will be often expedited. The writer was informed of a young woman who had an unusual vesicular rash on the chest, the outline of which her doctor observed to have a rectangular corner. He carefully superim- posed over the rash a square piece of emplas- trum lyttse, ostentatiously adjusting one corner of the plaster to the similar outline on the skin. The patient was allowed to associate the treat- ment with the detection. The plaster was pulled off" by the patient and the original rash rapidly disappeared. Traces of dyes and acids may be observed on the hands and garments, in some cases leading to detection. The ecchymosed patches seen in scorbutus have been simulated by purposely bruising the region behind the legs. Sweating is produced by violent exertion indulged in just before a doctor's visit. Fodere, in Medecine Legale, tom. ii. p. 485, recorded a case of a woman injecting air, through an almost imperceptible puncture in the groin, into the subcutaneous cellular tissue of abdominal parietes and producing emphyse- matous crepitation. Syphilitic skin lesions have been feigned as a means of escaping from impending marriage. Wounds.—All varieties of wounds, from mere superficial scratches inflicted in weakly pre- tended "attempts"at suicide with pins, nails, rough bones, etc., vip to the opening of the cephalic vein of the arm, have been seen by the writer among prisoners. In this latter case the man sent for medical aid in such a prompt manner as to ensure no undesirable loss of blood, but had taken care to smear his whole face, hands, and garments with blood so as to present a specta^cle which he evidently thought would cause himself to be regarded as suicidal. Being well known as a malingerer, he only achieved a severe punishment, and never feigned again. The writer was once deceived for a few mo- ments by a woman who wished to be regarded as too ill for dietary punishment, and when complaining of vertigo and weakness, presented her right wrist to the writer, who desired to test her pulse. No pulse could be felt. The left wrist was examined and found to have a normal pulse: and then the right radial artery was seen to have been obliterated at the wrist by an old lacerated wound. A convict produced an extensive deep sinus in the lower leg. After a counter-opening had been made, a drainage tube inserted, and no progress had followed, the limb was merely cased in plaster-of-Paris over some dressings. The man removed this apparatus during the same night and told the writer that he did so in order to remove some lint he had placed in the leg, and that " there need be no more anxiety, as the leg would rapidly get well of itself." It did so. A convict caused a wound of the right ankle by biting out a piece of tissue, the size of a halfpenny, over the left inner malleolus. He also had a second self-produced wound of leg, which was found to contain a piece of slate- pencil 21 inches long, and three pieces of un- ravelled cobbler's thread. He assisted us to discover the various foreign bodies when he found we had discovered his actions. This man wished to evade work, and soon after the detection of his first designs he feigned stricture of the urethra and strained against the catheter; but a large silver instrument always passed easily. He also made a transparently feigned attempt at suicide by scratching the integu- ment over the thyroid cartilage with a piece of meat bone. Again he threatened, if he did not receive some special food, " to bite out a piece from his body which would take months to heal." He was a persistent malingerer and always ready with a new plan of action. Another malingerer inflicted on himself three bitten wounds—one on the left hand, one on the left wrist, and one on the left bicipital region. The writer saw a case of a woman who re- peatedly produced deep and extensive induration and suppuration in the breast by introducing nails and hair-pins and leaving them there.159 MALINGERING This was done in order to gain admission to hospital, the condition always improving while there. Contractures.—Limbs are persistently flexed or held in rigid extension to simulate joint lesions or ankyloses, and by disuse may become stiff, through real secondary conditions of liga- ments and muscles; the atrophy which follows disuse may lead us to suspect real morbid conditions. The writer saw a case of a convict who presented himself with the appearance of left facial paralysis and left torticollis, and whose left deltoid was bulged out in a large mass below the shoulder, an aspect suggestive of some old injury or dislocation. This man ex- plained his case thus : "I have fits and then I can't help stealing watches when I'm just coming round; and gold chains is sure to dis- appear when I'm took bad. And my arm is parelite." An unexpected prompt military word of command caused him, by reflex action, to resume his normal anatomical shape, and his attempt to resume the deformity was un- availing. He would have succeeded in enlisting great sympathy in a street or in court, and his assumed facial aspect was very pitiable. Another man produced a deformity by hold- ing his shoulders so high as to, so to speak, bury his head in the clavicles. He was easily made to lower his shoulders. These cases show how strange some convicts are in their vagaries. Old "Dupuytren's Contraction" of the palmar fascia is sometimes dishonestly attributed to a recent slight injury of the finger; and arthritic joints are often pleaded as the im- mediate results of some trivial local injuries quite incapable of producing osteo-arthritis. " Stiff joints " are often caused by wilful or in- dolent neglect to obey instructions as to attend- ing hospitals for massage and passive exercise after fractures and other injuries. Workmen who are claiming " compensation" for accidents have been the malingerers in these cases. Tenosynovitis is produced at times by prisoners and is seen as a mild epidemic. Iodine and an immovable casing will generally cure it. Fractures are sometimes pleaded in accident claims when they have not existed. The X-rays should be utilised in these and other obscure cases. The writer has heard of a young medical student who insured in many accident companies, and claimed for a fractured leg. Various officials visited him from the several companies, and the sums were about to be paid, when a medical man insisted on ripping up the plaster- of-Paris case which enveloped the limb, and no fracture signs were found. The claimant had placed the case on his own leg. He was not paid by any of the companies ! Fracture of the neck of the femur has been cleverly simulated in the Poplar Hospital, as Dr. Moritz informs me, by a man who knew the objective signs and was only detected when placed under an antesthetic. We must never forget the aid to the truth which we have in anaesthetics in many doubtful cases, such as " phantom tumours," obscure joint lesions, con- tractions, etc. Joints. — The general form of malingering connected with joints is the insistence on in- ability to move them after dislocations, fractures, and synovitis, etc., have been really recovered from. Old arthritic " clicks" are utilised to simulate some remaining lesion. Ordinary surgical care should help us here, and we must look for signs of osteo-arthritis in other joints. The normal slight crepitus that can be noticed in most knee-joints is often pleaded after slight blows or twists, as showing grave joint disease. Here we should compare the sensation felt by us when the other knee is flexed and extended and the hand placed over it. Ankylosis of wrist was feigned by a man seeking compensation after a slight injury which had left a deformity. He held the joint very rigid until the writer, holding the man's hand, narrated a very horrible story about an execution which he had assisted at, and when the climax of tragic horrors was reached the hand dropped in complete flexion in sympathy with the listener's intense morbid interest in the subject narrated. In a case of feigned knee contracture, a surgeon examined the part carefully, the patient lying on his back; then turning the man over on to his front, proceeded to examine the sound knee with every appearance of care and sym- pathy. The man was confused by the altered position, and the "contracted" knee became movable when the surgeon was busy with the other one which had become affected. A case is on record of a soldier who had studied the gait of - hip disease so perfectly that he was able to simulate that condition admirably and successfully. A prisoner is recorded to have feigned-contrac- tion of the knee for seven years, always walking with a stick. On being discharged at the end of his sentence, he said, " I will try to put down my leg now, it may be of use to me," and he walked away well! Some men can simulate deformities after real injuries of a slight nature by contracting the tendons about the ankle and foot. In examin- ing these the subjects should be put off their guard and thus " trapped." Bones.—Diseases of bones do not appear to be often malingered; but we must always recollect that the bony pieces issuing from a suspicious sinus have been known to belong to another class of animal than man. Dr. Leslie quotes a case in the Medical Record of New York (1892) where three hundred fragments of boiled chicken bones were removed from the hand in a female. Dr. Davies, surgeon to East India Company160 MALINGERING Depot at Chatham, detected a simulation of injury to the back in a man who insisted that he could not move from his bed, by placing him alone in a ward and going at dusk to the window, and tapping at the glass, calling the man gently by his name. The " invalid " went instantly to the window and was congratulated by the doctor upon his recovery. The man returned to duty. Circulatory. —■ Ligatures have been used to produce oedema of hands and arms. Also cardiac obstruction has been simulated by the venous congestion of the head and neck caused by a ligature pressing on the large cervical veins. Palpitation of the heart is often induced by violent muscular movements, and where we have any doubt we should postpone our examina- tion long enough to enable the heart to recover itself. A case of feigned syncope has already been quoted. Angina pectoris is feigned, but the extreme mental and facial tension is wanting. The pulse has been slowed by tobacco, digitalis and tartar emetic, as well as hastened by violent muscular movements. A thermo- meter may be made to register very high figures by friction. Respiratory.—Asthma is often assumed, but the cyanosis cannot be assumed, though the anxiety of expression can be, and also the wheezing. Bronchitis will need the auscultatory signs and the copious expectoration for a verisimilitude. Haemoptysis is feigned with the production of blood which is not aerated nor intimately mixed with the hawked-up mucous. The blood is often produced by sucking or wounding the gums, which should be carefully examined. Digestive System and Alimentary Canal.— Vomiting is involuntarily induced, and in hysterical persons it may become most alarming. The symptom has been known by the writer to instantly be arrested by an order for discharge from prison, although considerable emaciation had resulted. The patient, a young woman, was seen in very fashionable attire and in greatly-improved appearance shortly after- wards. Probably the case was really one of nerve-mimicry. Diarrhoea is simulated and produced. It is very easy for a person to macerate the solid in the liquid excreta. A prisoner afHicted with constantly-recurring diarrhoea was found to have aperient pills concealed in his bed. It is well to insist, in suspicious cases, upon the urine and faeces being passed into separate vehicles, and even to arrange that a person shall be present to witness the carrying out of this order. Animals, such as lizards, and earth-worms, and also coals, etc., have been passed with the dejecta. Haemorrhoids have been simulated by small bladders filled with blood and attached to strings which held the "piles " in situ. Bleeding from the rectum is induced by scraping and pricking the mucous membrane. Haematemesis has been feigned, as in Sauvage's case, where a young woman procured bullock's blood from a slaughter-house and drank it on repeated occasions just before the doctor's visit, and vomiting it opportunely. Another case is recorded of human blood from a venesection basin being drunk and vomited. In such cases the absence of pallor and of a thin, small, compressible pulse would perhaps put one on one's guard ; but truly we are very liable to be misled by any simulation of this kind, at least for the time being. Faices have been swallowed and vomited so as to suggest strangulated hernia or obstruction. Dr. Andrew Aitchison, in British Medical Journal, August 3, 1872, records an interesting hysterical case, where gastrocolic fistula was diagnosed wrongly owing to simulated faecal vomiting. Cotton-wool was mixed with vomited matters. Death occurred from tubercle. Soap is eaten to induce alimentary disturb- ance, and the same substance is chewed to produce the " foaming at the mouth " in fits. Ruptures of quite old standing are attributed by workmen to recent blows, and to accidents of a nature which cannot have induced them. This is common in " compensation cases," and we must carefully look for any discoloration of the groin, such as follows the prolonged use of a truss, and we must examine the patency and laxity of the abdominal rings, since in a recent case we do not find a loose flaccid ring. We must remember, too, that ruptures are not often caused by accidents, unless the predisposi- tion has existed. Prolapsus ani is produced voluntarily by straining. Varicocele, a dilated venous pouch, and some- times glandular enlargements are sought to be passed off as hernias. Involuntary passage of faeces is feigned at times; here we should examine the sphincter, and if it contracts upon the finger we should give solid food and opium; and if solid faeces is passed in bed after that, the case is fraudulent. (Cheyne, Dublin Hospital Reports, vol. iv.) The writer has disconcerted men who have been striving to vomit as a part of a scheme of simulation, by raising the chin forcibly, which will prevent it. Sir Felix Semon has published a case in the Lancet, vol. i., 1895, in which he believed nitric acid was used to produce obstinate ulceration of the fauces. Here we may mention that bubos and glandular abscesses are often attributed, un- truthfully as a rule, to the results of very slight falls or " strains " by workmen seeking accident compensation.161 MALINGERING Mr. H. T. Butlin, in Lancet, 1871, vol. i., quotes a case where a girl, seven and a half years old, had sickness, purging, and bowel pains, blood and jelly passed by bowels, con- vulsions, rolling of eyes, rigid limbs, screams, frothing at mouth. Eventually she promised "never to do it again." Thus we see even young children may simulate cleverly. A case is on record where a woman for more than twelve years sustained a composite simu- lation, with the following feigned manifesta- tions : hfematemesis, gastralgia, vomiting of substance like liver and of bone, passing bone from vagina, symptoms of hepatitis, epilepsy, amaurosis, aphonia, deafness, paralysis of arm, gravel, anasarca, dyspnoea, retention of urine, and hydatid simulacra were passed per vaginam made from pigs' intestines ! Extra-uterine foeta- tion was diagnosed amongst other diseases at one time. Jaundice and clay-coloured stools have been recorded as simulated by painting the skin with tinct. rhei, and by taking daily small quantities of muriatic acid. But the yellow conjunctives cannot be feigned. Few can be astute enough to produce the three signs of pale stools, dark urine, and yellow skin. With digestive anomalies suspected to be feigned, some very nauseous "stomachic tonic" may be tried; but prisoners, at any rate, become fond of the small variety in life pro- cured by a nasty medicine, and the writer has often had men come to the surgery and ask for a dose of " choke-me-ofF " ! Tumours.—Pregnancy is often feigned; of course the foetal heart should be heard in ad- vanced cases. Pillows and pads are used to simulate the condition. Phantom tumours can be detected often by long continued pressure over the abdomen, which at last causes the rigidly-contracted muscles to yield. But an anaesthetic is most useful. Mr. Pearce Gould, F.R.C.S., records, in Lancet, 1888, vol. i., a case of two "tumours" in a young woman's jaws, one of which " had been growing for three years "; the other, a smaller and, presumably, more recent one, was on the other side. These were found to be two balls made up of calico strips sewn into rounded masses, the one as large as a Tangerine orange, the other the size of a walnut. They were held between the cheeks and jaws. Cancer of the breast was simulated in a case quoted by Pigray from Fodere, where a young woman presented herself to a king of France to " be touched." Pigray found a slice of spleen had been so ingeniously fixed on the part as to be " le mieux simule et contrefaicte qui se puisse voir." Fatty tumours are sometimes attributed to simple blows. Speech.—Aphonia is poorly mimicked unless by some true neuromimetic patients. It is generally easy to detect by finesse. VOL. VI Aural.—Deafness is generally simulated in only one ear, and can be detected by confusing the malingerer by asking ordinary questions, unrelated to his "deafness," while we close the sound ear unostentatiously by pressing the tragus over the external meatus. These schemers are really very easy to outwit, if only they are distracted from the immediate subject of which they are complaining. Of course we must examine the parts and look for ruptured tympana, catarrh, and so forth : but mere scien- tific investigations do not go far in these sub- jective complaints, as the feigners are not simple enough to co-operate with our science. Honey has been introduced into the external meatus to simulate otorrhoea, cantharides to excite inflammation, and rancid oil and other odorous substances to produce a foetid character. Nasal.—Simulations of polypi have been re- corded, where foreign matters, such as pieces of animals' flesh, have been forced into the nares. Such are not common. Ocular.—The writer has had cognisance of very obstinate factitious diseases of the anterior part of the eyes produced by various irritants, such as lime, brick-dust, etc. Acute conjunc- tivitis, keratitis, iritis of a most virulent type have been produced by some prisoners who dis- liked work, and this condition being cured, and the men having been sent back to work, has returned in some cases immediately hard work was encountered. Tramps are specially prone to simulation. These men appear to be congenitally lethargic, and they will often endanger any organ, or even their lives, rather than consent to steady, regular labour. Some of the most inveterate self- injurers the writer has met with have been Polish Jews. Jews of the lower orders are said also to be prone to hysterical manifestations. Double blindness was once only feigned in the writer's experience, and the eyes having been ophthalmoscopically examined with a negative result, the youth was "cured" by being carefully prepared for an " operation " on the eyes. Much parade was made of many assistants and of many formidable-looking in- struments. As the writer approached the " blind man " with a rather excessively ponder- ous scalpel, vision suddenly returned, and the youth asked if he might just try to see if he could get up and work. He did. Strabismus is occasionally simulated by men who are otherwise assuming what they suppose to be the semblances of "weak mind" and of a low physical type. Simulated refraction errors can be detected by a skilful use of the ophthalmoscope. (?enifo-wrmary.—Renal colic is feigned often, but the proper reference of the pain to the testicle is not always properly described. Nor do we see rigors well simulated, nor the sweating. Calculus is sometimes weakly simulated by 11MALINGERING 162 pieces of ordinary stony matter being pushed up the urethra, and common sand placed in the urine chamber. Stricture of the urethra has been complained of in the writer's experience, although a large silver catheter passed into the bladder, but the patient strained and endeavoured to resist its passage. Hsematuria is feigned by mixing blood with the urine ; blood has actually been injected into the bladder, if records are accurate. Even children have stained their urine by placing dyed rags therein in schemes of simulation. Albumin is sometimes mixed with the urine in the form of white of egg or meat juice. The writer operated once upon a young woman whose bladder contained a calcareous mass deposited on and amidst a congeries of hair-pins. " Uterine hsemorrhage " has been caused by lacerations and scratchings of the vaginal walls with scissors, with the object of obtaining re- lease from imprisonment on medical grounds. Incontinence of urine, when feigned, may be detected by various stratagems: by watching the man, when muscular expulsive efforts may be detected; by observing whether he voids urine to his own inconvenience, as in bed, etc. ; by observing whether the glans penis is in the sodden state common to the true disease. The author was called to examine a man who had had a fall of a trivial nature, but who said that, as a result, he could not hold his water more than twenty minutes. He was kept under observation for three-quarters of an hour, and not allowed an opportunity of micturating, but kept occupied by a minute examination of other parts of his system. Then he was asked to pass water, and the amount being measured was found to be eight ounces. The water was chemically examined, and found to be normal in specific gravity and in ingredients. It was then pointed out to the man that he had re- tained his water for at least three-quarters of an hour, and, moreover, that the quantity passed, multiplied by the number of equal periods in the twenty-four hours, made it clear that he had not made water for some consider- able time before he presented himself for examination. Nervous diseases are simulated chiefly in the form of local paresis after accidents. Sometimes hemiplegia or paraplegia is feigned. We must in these cases satisfy ourselves by the scientific means at our disposal that actual ohjective signs exist, and no serious trophic changes have occurred, which cannot be accounted fm- by the mere disuse of parts; superficial and deep reflexes must be examined ; electrical tests will discover degeneration of nerA'es. But we must observe the case in its entirety, and especially watch for inconsistencies, which can generally be found either during the examination, or when the patient is unaware that he is being seen and watched. In these cases, as in other malingered conditions, there can be no rule for the detection. Ingenuity of device on our part must suggest pitfalls for the simulator to stumble into. Painful tests can be morally defended when applied to parts in which the " patient" assures us that he has " lost all feeling." Somewhat heroic electrical " stimulation" is capable of " curing " many cases. An apparent neglect is one of the most potent means of bringing some patients to discontinue paralytic impostures. The writer had to see a man who had had a superficial scalp wound of the posterior part of the vertex; his mouth was dropped markedly at the left angle; and he complained that "the doctors had done something to his head, and he had lost his brain since." His lower jaw was apparently drawn to the left side, as if by a subluxation. After examining him minutely, and endeavouring to procure a voluntary re- placement of his mouth, the writer turned him round so that he faced a mirror. His back was then apparently intently examined, he being informed that " spinal disease must be looked for next." While thus apparently busy, the writer looked into the mirror and saw the paralysis of the facial muscles had disappeared, and the virtues of the " miraculous mirror" were pointed out to the man. The jaw also soon resumed its place after a little manipula- tion, and the man became aware that he had not deceived us. A prisoner who was brought encased in spinal and other supports, owing to an incorrect diagnosis of paralysis extending from the dorsal region downwards, threw aside his supports, after he had been simply examined once, and then absolutely neglected for two weeks, and not even visited in the daily round. He stood dressed at his cell door one morning, saluted the doctor respectfully, and said, " If you please, sir, I wish to work, and do my duty like a man ! " Nervous shock is the stock phrase of dishonest claimants who have sustained accidents in rail- ways and in falls and in street mishaps, and have recovered from any injuries received but wish to build up large monetary claims. We must bear in mind that in children shock is written legibly on their faces, which wear a worn, sad expression, and the habitual smile is banished. In grown-up people we see the same aspect with fine tremors of the fingers and hands, and sometimes fibrillary tremors of the facial muscles. Irritability of the pupils, sluggish or exaggerated superficial and deep reflexes and palpitation of the heart are common. The mental reflex is often slow, so that questions are slowly answered. Emotional displays and sometimes marked irritability of temper are often seen. " Shock " is much less163 MALINGERING common than some speculating solicitors would have us believe, and when actually sustained, is not usually persistent. To detect the symptoms, we must talk freely, and on general subjects, to the "patient," and closely observe his alertness or sluggishness in reply—gauging his memory at the same time that our purpose is not patent to him; we must watch his manner of approach to us, whether natural or languid, and so forth. Fits and various subjective symptoms are often complained of in "claims" after head injuries from accidents. It is a fact that though cerebral injury of course sometimes follows these injuries, yet the proportion of such a sequence to the total aggregate number of injuries is small. So we must seek an objec- tive verification before we admit the existence of "fits." Frequently the only evidence forth- coming are the statements of the claimant and those of members of his own family. It is only fair that, before proceeding to court upon such a claim, the subject should submit himself to the skilled observation of medical men ; and, if the claimant be a workman, he should enter a hospital in order that, if genuine, he may be treated, though we cannot insist upon cranial operations. But skilled observation should inform us whether his " fits," either Jacksonian or otherwise, exist. If we have not skilled evidence we are justified in giving a guarded opinion on the case, remembering always the three forms of "fits"—(1) organic, (2) neuro- mimetic, and (3) assumed or " subjective." In giving evidence in court, such a classification may be useful. If we totally disbelieve in the genuineness of the case after close observa- tion of the subject's aspect, manner, intellectual display, memory, reasoning powers, and so forth, we can convey to the court our opinion by the use of the terms "subjective" or "questionable," as applied to the symptoms, and at the same time run no risk of being considered too dogmatic or biassed in the case. Lay persons sometimes designate a slight syncopal sensation as a " fit," and they often exaggerate the number of true or false " fits." Epilepsy is much more often feigned than most practitioners suppose, in cases where the surroundings and conditions render sympathy of use to the feigner. Thus feigned fits are very common during criminal trials, in the streets and in prisons It must be here noted that though the detection ought to be easy, it certainly happens that many medical men are misled by the simulated symptoms and manifestations. Dr. Frederick Taylor, in his Practice of Medicine (1898), says, "the malingerer ... is careful not to fall so as to hm-t himself, whereas the epileptic is thrown ■down suddenly, and, if in the street, will probably strike his head or face, or will fall in the road, not making any effort to save himself. The malingerer is red in the face rather than pale or livid; his skin perspires from the exertion; his pupils are not dilated and are sensible to light. The fact that he has not lost consciousness may be tested in various ways — by touching the conjunctiva, when the eyelids will close, though he will probably resist attempts to raise the upper eyelid; by applying snuff to his nostrils; by producing some very painful impression, as by forcing one's thumb-nail under that of the malingerer." Real epileptics usually have the traces of former injuries when in fits, such as old scars, fractures, etc. The bitten tongue should be looked for, but can be easily feigned. We cannot always resort to such direct tests as a naval surgeon is recorded to have utilised when he instructed an orderly, in the malin- gerer's hearing, to run a red-hot ramrod up the "patient's" rectum; nor can we always place the quasi-epileptic upon a heap of straw and set light to the latter. But some means can be extemporised by an ordinary resourceful practitioner whereby to arrest the imposture. Buckets of cold water are often handy. Malingerers often smear their faces excessively with blood. An impostor was recently detected through it being noticed that he licked his lipjs in a manner suggestive to sympathising by- standers that drink would be welcome. Feigned fits can be often induced "to order" by our suggestion that " one should he due.'' The writer received a prisoner once from another institution with a minute account of the grave epileptic fits which, day and night, seized the unfortunate man. The report stated also that if the patient was pressed on the vertex by the fingers the convulsions were induced. It was also stated that the contents of the bladder and rectum were often passed involuntarily. The man himself gave such exaggerated accounts of his own sufferings that the case was immediately suspected by the writer as being probably entirely feigned. It was arranged that a " clinical lecture " should be given on the case, and a specially collected audience was assembled, with the express under- standing that no signs of amusement should ))e betrayed by any of the observers, however ridiculoiis the lecture might appear to them. There were some eight or nine fellow-prisoners in the ward watching keenly the proceedings from their respective beds. In the patient's hearing his symptoms and case were discussed with great gravity of manner, and it was stated that if this were a real case of a certain disease, for which a long Latin name was ex tempore coined, upon his head being pressed at the point referred to he would have in exactly fifteen seconds after the pressure commenced, convulsive twitchings commencing in one part of his frame, which would be communicated regularly through certain parts named, andMALINGERING 164 would so become gradually general. Then the writer proceeded to place his fingers gently some four inches away from the spot reported as the one which was pathologically productive of convulsions. Nothing occurred until the writer asked a colleague to kindly let him know by his watch when the moment arrived at which convulsions were due. At the exact time specified twitchings commenced, and developed exactly in the order pronounced before. The gravest demeanour was observed by those around, and the case developed until the man carefully slipped off the bed and commenced to progress around the ward in an attitude of locomotive episthotonos ! The man was put back to bed eventually, and in his hearing some directions were given which conveyed to his mind that there was no medical treatment forthcoming for " such a grave case" beyond low diet. No more convulsions or other morbid symptoms occurred after that clinical demonstration ! As a warning that we should preserve our unbiassed mind always open to an ultimate diagnosis until we have some convincing elements to base our opinion on, we quote the following case : "A young man was in hospital in prison for tubercular glands of the neck and showed some dissatisfaction when his time of discharge from the comforts of that location arrived ; he was brought back within twenty- four hours in a 'fit.' Now the convulsions and general appearances in this case, coupled with the circumstances, led the writer to suspect the nature of the phenomena; but a careful watching attitude was preserved, and no opinion expressed. The man expired within half an hour of his fresh reception to hospital. The necropsy revealed tubercle of the meninges of the brain." Nor must we forget that a true epileptic may have feigned " fits" superadded to real ones when the motives occur to him. Insanity is generally assumed in a transparent way ; the " hallucinations " and " delusions " are not accompanied by the expression of fear or horror, or other emotions proper to the simu- lated conditions. Insomnia is not continuous. A man who states that his food is poisoned will eat and drink it all. Striking inconsistencies can be noticed frequently; the characters of totally different forms of insanity being blended in a manner that reveals the truth. The facial expression should be particularly studied, always remembering that some malingerers can mimic facially the physiognomy of insanity, as well as that of idiocy, dyspeptic agony, etc. When questioned, the impostor will frequently answer in a merely foolish manner, and not like the lunatic, who is delusional but not palpably ridiculous. He will call his arm his leg, and his head his knee. He will pretend in a trans- parently foolish way that he tiiinks when in London that he is in Japan. His ideas of mad- ness lead him to overact the part in ways that betray him. He will smear his excrement over his head, and put a utensil on the latter and tell you that " You must not talk to your king," and so forth. Some men, however, can feign insanity so ably that alienists are deceived. And some true lunatics will feign an addition of insane symptoms quite incongruous with their real type of disease. Suicidal attempts are very often feigned. In prisons we find that most of such attempts are made by suspension at the precise moment when a warder is due for his visit to the cell. Where the suicide actually has encompassed his death, the hour chosen is generally one when he knows he will not be likely to be disturbed. Melancholia, when feigned, does not present the aspect and fixed apathetic manner proper to the real disorder. Mania, and especially delirious mania, is seldom acted correctly. We only see ridiculous exhibitions of nonsensical chatter instead of the peculiar results of the heightened object-consciousness, which produces the ever-varying and continuous reflection of the surroundings upon the patient's mind, which gives the character to true " ravings." A man who had three times obtained his dis- charge from the army through feigned mania simulated acute delirious mania in prison, but confessed his deceit after three days and nights in a tight strait jacketT Great care is necessary to detect the presence of early symptoms of general paralysis of the insane, as we may easily miss them, and as a consequence consiiler a true case as malingered. The practitioner who desires to be able to detect feigned insanity when he meets it should refresh his acquaintance with the true disease in its various forms by visiting asylums from time to time, as by that means only can the aptitude for rapid differentiation of the true from the assumed be retained. It is well also to seek occasions of witnessing examples of feigned insanity, which can generally be found in prisons. It does not always happen that the most skilled asylum doctor is, at the same time, the most expert detective of feigned insanity. When a feigned case has been detected and the scheme upset, the would-be impostor will often persist in his drama, and a last attempt to convince the doctor of the reality of tiie madness is often made by the final assumption of suicidal intent. We must not change our fixed diagnosis because of this species of terrorism. It is, however, quite impossible to here de- scribe any infallible means of detecting this form of malingering. The most acute observa- tion and appreciation of small mistakes in the presentment should enable a practitioner, skilledMALINGERING 165 in the aspect of real insanity, with some experi- ence of feigned cases, to detect the flaw ; and he must use his own devices to elicit further exaggerated performances. When he is con- vinced of his diagnosis of imposture he may have recourse to restraint, cold baths, low diet, electricity, and other harmless but unpleasant " remedial" agents. Much courage of his opinions is now called for, and consultative support is always advisable, as the responsi- bility should be shared to avoid subsequent annoyances. In conclusion, we may remark that we have only referi'ed to a few of the forms which mahngering assumes, as the length at our disposal prohibits further illustrations. Our object has been to show the general characters of all malingering to be inconsistency and ex- aggeration of symptoms, and the qualities de- manded for detection to be obse?-vation of small details and logical deduction from them. The practitioner who once grasps the situation will not be at a loss to realise when he meets with cases in which suspicion should be his attitude. Cautions.—We should always bear in mind that a man may have a subjective pain which may appear assumed, but which may be related to some real and grave organic lesion. Dr. Spry's case is instructive, where a trooper in the 2nd Life Guards complained of uncomfortable sensations in the oesophagus and stomach, follow- ing the " swallowing of a bone." Some suspicion of malingering was entertained at the time ; but Dr. Spry, impressed by a certain anxiety of aspect, detained the man under treatment, and three days later death suddenly ensued, and the autopsy revealed perforation of the aorta, caused by a spiculum of beef bone. Numerous cases of mysterious pain in the back have been cleared up by the rupture of an abdominal aneurysm. However, a timid practitioner will never become expert in detecting malingering. Caution and moral courage are required. No hurried diagnosis should be aimed at, and con- sultations should be held, if only as a means of protecting our own interests. As to the neces- sity of declaring our conviction when we have arrived at it, we must use great discretion, as frequently we do no good by publishing our discovery; and we may be acting greatly against our own professional interests. In the public service it is our duty to express our opinion; but in private practice it may be an act of honourable wisdom to keep our own counsel, while we do our best to bring back the impostor to a correct line of conduct. Ma,llea.tion.—A hammering action of the hands observed as an occasional symptom in cases of hysteria, insanity, or chorea. Mallei Bacillus. See Glanders {Bac- teriology) ; Micro-Organisms (Streptothrices). Mai lei n.—A product of the growth of the micro-organism of glanders (bacillus mallei), used in the diagnosis of the disease (malleinisation). See also Glanders (Bacteriology) ; Immunity (Specific Immunity, Protective Inoculation with Bacterial Cell Substances) ; Therapeutics, Se- rum Therapy (Mallein). Malleolus. — A hammer-head shaped projection of bone (Lat. malleus, a hammer), as seen at the lower end of the tibia and of the fibula. Mallet Finger.—Drop finger. See Deforjiities (Hand and Fingers, Acquired De- formities, Mallet Finger). Malleus.—The club-like ossicle found in the cavity of the tympanum ; also, glanders or farcy. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Mem- brane ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease ; Physiology, Senses (Hearing, Iliddle Far). Mallow. See Balneology (Great Britain, Ireland). Mallow-Tea.—An infusion, containing the mucilage of marsh - mallow root (Althea officinalis). Malnutrition. — Defective nutrition, due to malassimilation, etc. See Alcohol (Mor- bid CJianges in Chronic Alcoholism); Gangrene (Definitions). Malpighian. — This adjective, derived from the name of Marcello Malpighi, an Italian physician (b. 1628, d. 1694), is applied to several structures which he discovered in the body—e.g. the Malpighian bodies in the kid- ney, the Malpighian corpuscles in the spleen, the rete Malpighi of the epidermis, etc. See Physiology, Blood (Spleen); Physiology, Ex- cretion (Kidney, Structure). Malposition.—An abnormal position of any organ or part, e.g. the uterus or foetus. Malpractice or Mai praxis.—im- proper treatment of a case, consisting either in the use of remedies not regarded as beneficial in the malady which is present or in culpable neglect of the patient. Malpresentation.—The abnormal lie of the foetus in utero (e.g. breech and shoulder cases) or of a part of the foetus (e.g. face presentations). See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism. Malt. See also Enzymes (Hydrolysing) ; Invalid Feeding (Malt).—Prepared by bringing the grain of common barley to a certain degree of germination by heat and then drying it. It contains the ferment diastase which has the property of converting starch into dextrin and166 MALT maltose. It is not official, but it may be given in the form of a powder in doses of from 1-2 3 to aid the digestion of farinaceous foods, and it is an ingredient of many of the proprietary foods for infants. From it is prepared Extractum Malti (official), also called Extractum Bynes. It is a liquid of the density of honey prepared by macerating malt with water and then evaporating. If it is boiled during the process of manufacture the diastatic ferment is destroyed. It contains, in addition to the ferment, maltose, dextrin, and a varying quantit}' of alcohol. A liquid extract known as Bynin is now preferred to the moi'e solid extract; in its preparation the malt infusion is concentrated in vacuo instead of by heat. By reason of the maltose it contains, malt extract is very nutritious, and is of great value in the treatment of wasting diseases like phthisis, apart altogether from the presence of the diastase. It is easily tolerated by the stomach and is, therefore, specially indicated in convales- cence from acute illness, and in chronic diseases when cod-liver oil is not well borne. An active malt preparation is also of service in cases of dyspepsia with imperfect digestion of carbo- hydrates. As it acts best in an alkaline medium it should not be given for this purpose until at least two hours after a meal. Malt forms an emulsion with cod-liver oil, a combination frequently given to weakly children and tuber- culous patients of all ages: the oil should constitute at least 15 per cent of the mixture. Malt may also be administered in combination with iron, strychnine, and the glycerophosphates. " Bynin Amara" is an analogue of Easton's Syrup, consisting of liquid malt extract with the phos- phates of quinine, iron, and strychnine. Taka Diastase is a powder possessed of strong amy- lolytic properties ; it is prepared by the cultiva- tion on bran of a fungus, Eurotimn Oryzce. It is used in doses of from 1-5 grains in the same class of cases as malt. Malta. Fever. See Undulant Fever ; Malaria {Diagnosis) ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Non-malarial " Remittent" Fever). Malthusianism.—The doctrine of T. R. Malthus (6. 1766, d. 1835), that the rate of increase of the population is out of proportion to the increase of food supplies, etc., and that it ought to be checked ; in these days of diminish- ing birth-rates, Malthusianism has ceased to be a matter of practical politics (if it ever was one). Malti ne.—Various proprietary prepara- tions, used as foods or medicines, and containing malted wheat or barley, are called maltine. See also Malt, Bynin, Bynol, etc. Maltose.—A sugar (C,2H220jj), formed, along with dextrin, from starch when it is acted upon by a dilute acid or by the ferment diastase ; it is a disaccharid, two glucose mole- cules (CgHjgOfl) polymerising to form one maltose one. See Malt ; Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth). MaltOSUria.—The presence of maltose in the urine. See Glycosuria. Malum.—A disease, in such terms as malum venereum {syphilis); malum coxse senile {arthritis deformans of hip); malum senile {arthritis deformans); and malum perforans pedis {perforatiiuj ulcer of the foot). Malvern. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {English). Mammary Gland, Diseases of. Anatomical Considerations . . .167 Congenital Anomalies— Polymastia—Polythelia . . .171 Amazia—Micromazia . . .171 Athelia 171 Hypertrophy. . . . . .171 Affections of the Nipple and Areola— Undeveloped and Retracted Nipples . 173 Injiammatory Affections of the Nipple —Fissure, etc. . . . .173 Syjihilitic Affections . . . .173 Tumoui's . . . . . .174 Inflammatory Affections of the Mamma— Mastitis of l7ifancy . . . .174 Mastitis of Adolescence . . .174 Puerperal Mastitis . . . .175 (a) Simple . . . . .175 (6) Suppurative . . . .175 Chronic Mastitis . . . .178 (a) Diffuse Interstitial Mastitis . 178 {/)) Chronic Lobular Mastitis and Multiple Cystic Disease . 179 (c) Circumscribed Chronic Mastitis 183 Chronic Abscess {non-tuberculous) . 183 Tuberculosis . . . . . .184 Actinomycosis . . . . .185 Mastodynia 185 Cysts— Galactocele . . . . .186 Cysts in Chronic Lobular Mastitis . 186 Involution Cysts . . . .186 Hydatid Cysts. . . . .187 Neoplasms of the Mamma— Simjyle . . . . . .187 FUjro-Adenoma . . . .187 {a) Hard Fibro-Adenoma . .188 {b) Soft Fibro-Adenoma . .188 (c) Cysto-Adenoma . . .188 {d) Proliferous Cysto-Adenonui . 188 Pure Adenoma . . . .189 Pure Fibroma . . . .189 Duct Papilloma . . , .189 Fatty Tumours . . . .190 Osteo-Chondroma . . . .190 Angioma . . . . .190MAMMAEY GLAND, DISEASES OF 167 Neoplasms of the Mamma (contd.)— Malignant .... . 190 Sarcoma .... . 190 Carcinoma .... . 192 Etiology .... . 192 General Pathology . 193 Nodular Scirrhus . 19-4 Atrophic Scirrhus . 194 Acute Cancer . 198 Colloid Cancer . . 199 Duct Cancer . 199 Adeno-Carcinoma [Halstead) . 200 Treatment .... . 200 Results .... 2Ud Mortality.... . 206 Contraindications . 207 Inoperable Cancer . 207 Paget's Disease . . 208 Diseases of the Male Breast— Gyncecomastia . 211 See also Axilla (Diseases, Accessory Mammce); Breast ; Chest, Injuries of (Soft Parts); Ectopic Gestation (Symptoms, Mammary Changes); Infant Feeding (Breast Feeding) ; Labour, Post-partum Hemorrhage (Saline In- fusions, Sub-mammary); Menstruation (Nervous and Vascular Symptoms); Milk ; Molar Preg- nancy (Changes in Breasts); Ovaries, Diseases of (Removal of Ovai-ies for Cancer of Breast); Pregnancy, Physiology (Changes in Mammce); Pregnancy, Diagnosis (Changes in Mammce) ; PuERPBRiuM, Physiology (Lactation); Puer- perium. Pathology (Affections of Breasts). Anatomical Considerations The mamma is developmentally, as well as morphologically, more closely allied to the sweat glands than to the sebaceous glands. During the second month of foetal life the first rudiment of the mamma is represented by a down-growth into the mesoblast of a hemispherical clump of proliferated epiblast. At the third month this primary epithelial invasion gives off secondary epithelial columns which become the main lacti- ferous ducts of the future adult gland. The intervening and adjacent mesoblast, instead of becoming fatty tissue, develops into the fibrous stroma of the gland. At birth, more ducts are formed by a process of centrifugal budding from the extremities of the epithelial column, and the nipple becomes developed as an outgrowth of the cutis around the ducts. From birth to puberty the mamma of both sexes shows a corresponding degree of evolution and is repre- sented by a fibrous stroma containing a system of branched tubes, at the extremities of which are solid club-shaped thickenings. In the male the mamma remains throughout life in this imperfectly evoluted condition. In the female at puberty the clavate thicken- ings of the ducts begin to bud out to form the acini, which are collected into lobules. These lobules are at first small, and situated for the most part at the periphery of the gland. There is a corresponding activity in the growth of the stroma, and the size of the organ is still further augmented by the development of fat lobules within it, while the paramammary subcutaneous fat is also increased in amount. The stimulus of conception brings about the complete evolu- tion and functional activity of the gland. New acini are developed, and the number and size of the lobules are so rapidly increased that the gland comes to possess the completely parenchy- matous appearance presented by other glands which are always functionally active. The stroma becomes more succulent as well as more vascular. Pregnancy also, unfortunately, gives a similar impetus to the growth of breast tumours. After lactation, the parenchyma returns to the resting state, many of the acini and lobules disappear altogether, and a con- siderable quantity of fat develops in the stroma. The relative proportion of the three elements of the breast, viz., parenchyma, fibrous stroma, and fat, varies considerably in different indi- viduals. The breast tissue proper consists of a central part, the corpus mammae, and a peripheral part, made up of processes which, as they extend into the paramammary fat, become more and more branched imtil finally they become continuous with the connective tissue septa of the subcu- taneous fatty tissue. The breast, therefore, has no distinct capsule. In the young adult nulli- para, the corpus mammae is compact and well defined, and contains but little intramammary fat, while the peripheral processes are relatively small. In the multipara, the corpus mammse contains more fat and the peripheral processes extend more widely into the paramammary fat. After the menopause, the breast tissue under- goes extensive atrophy, and in the obese it is almost entirely replaced by adipose tissue. It must be remembered, however, that traces of parenchyma, in the shape of atrophied ducts, may still be detected with the microscope in the fibrous strands which remain. The arrangement and extent of the paren- chyma can be investigated by treating the breast with a 5 per cent solution of nitric acid. If slices of the fresh organ be placed in this solution for a few minutes and then washed under running water, the albumin of the epi- thelial cells of the parenchyma is coagulated, and the connective tissue is rendered trans- parent, homogeneous, and somewhat gelatinous. The ultimate lobules of the parenchyma now appear as little (1-2 mm.), dull, opaque, white, seed-like bodies, arranged in grape-like clusters around the termination of the finer branches of the ducts (Figs. 4 and 5). The tooth-like processes which pass from the anterior surface of the corpus mammae are attached to the skin by fibrous prolongations known as the suspensory ligaments of Cooper.MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 168 The parenchyma is prolonged into these pro- cesses, and in spare women with well-developed mammse it may reach to within a short distance of the corium. Posteriorly, the mamma is separated from the pectoral muscle by a thin stratum of loose connective tissue, the deeper layers of which are more compactly woven to constitute the jjectoral fascia proper. In obese subjects the retromammai'y tissue is represented by a layer of fat of considerable thickness. Fig. 1.—From the mamma of a girl, Eet. 18. To show the normal structure ami the develop- ment of acini. «, Dense interlobular stroma consisting of wavy, closely packed connective- tissue fibres; 6, intralobular connective tissue; c, large duct cut transversely with a smaller duct; rf, leading to the developing lobules; e, acini (surrounded by thick hyaline- looking membrana; propriae) developing as solid epithelial buds from the terminal intra- lobular ducts /. Delicate processes of breast tissue pass from the deep surface of the corpus mammte into the retromammary tissue, and Heidenhain has shown that gland parenchyma not infrequently extends into them as far as the pectoral fascia, and indeed sometimes for a short distance into the processes which dip from the fascia between the more superficial fasciculi of the muscle. The breast tissue has a much wider distribu- tion than was formerly supposed. Vertically, it extends from the second rib to the sixth costal cartilage at the angle where it begins to sweep upwards to the sternum ; horizontally. from a little within the edge of the sternum opposite the fourth rib to the fifth rib in the mid-axillary line. For purposes of clinical description, the mamma is subdivided artificially into four quadrants by means of a vertical and a horizontal diameter which intersect at the nipple. The quadrants are named upper-inner, lower-inner, upper-outer, lower-outer, respect- ively. Two adjacent quadrants constitute a hemisphere. The inner hemisphere rests almost entirely on the pectoralis major; at its lowest part it slightly overlies the upper part of the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle of the abdomen. The upper half of the outer hemisphere rests upon the greater pectoral, on the edge of the lesser pectoral, and to a slight extent on the serratus magnus, upon which, and under cover of the pec- toralis major, it extends upwards into the axilla ("axillary tail" of Spence) as high as the third rib, where it comes into relation with the thoracic group of axillary lymphatic glands situ- ated upon the inner wall of the axilla. The re- mainder of the outer hemisphere rests almost entirely upon the ser- ratus, except the lowest part which overlaps the fleshy digitations of the external oblique arising from the fifth and sixth ribs. It follows, there- fore, that about one-third of the whole mamma lies inferior and external to the axillary border of the pectoralis major. These relations have been dwelt upon in detail because the surgeon must cut beyond the limits here mentioned if he wishes to remove the whole of the breast tissue. The skin of the nipple, abundantly supplied with sebaceous glands, is covered by a thin epidermis, clothing large sensitive papilhe. On the summit of the nipple is a slight depression into which the milk ducts, twelve to twenty in number, open by minute orifices. The glands of Montgomery, situated upon the areola, and frequently referred to as sebaceous, have been shown by Rein and others to be rudimentary169 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF milk glands. Their enlargement during preg- nancy gives rise to distinct elevations upon the surface. Scattered throughout the corium of the nipple and areola are bundles of non-striped muscular fibres, many of which occupy the adventitious coats of the lactiferous ducts, some interlacing horizontally, others running longi- tudinally. In the loose tissue under the areola the milk ducts are ampuUated to form the lactiferous sinuses. The walls of the main ducts when empty are thrown into folds which in transverse section are apt to be mistaken for papillae. At, and in remains a single layer; the milk lobules are not produced by fatty disintegration of successive generations of cells, but by the vital activity of the protoplasm of the single layer. The upper and inner hemisphere of the breast receives its blood-supph/ from the second, third, and fourth perforating branches of the internal mammary artery, the lower and outer hemi- sphere from the long thoracic which gives off a branch of considerable size which winds round the lower border of the pectoi-alis major and terminates at the nipple. The superficial veiiis of the mamma are relatively large, and open Fig. 2.—Shows the structure of an atropliied and fibrous corpus mammfe of a woman, set. 58, whose breast was removed for a small carcinoma, a, Compact interlobulur fibrous tissue; b, fat cells; c, connective-tissue corpuscles; d, atrophied terminal ducts, filled with small epithelial cells. The acini have disappeared, but the intralobular capillary network («) remains. the neighbourhood of, their orifices the ducts are lined by a stratified epithelium, which soon gives place to a single layer of columnar epi- thelium placed upon a nucleated basement membrane. The acini are lined by a single layer of cubical or low columnar cells. Accord- ing to Bender, a layer of non-striped muscle intervenes between the epithelium and the basement membrane both of the ducts and acini. The interacinous connective tissue is more delicate and cellular than the perilobular, which encircles the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma. In the interlobular connective tissue are numerous fat lobules. During lactation the epithelium of the acini into the external jugular, the cephalic and the axillary veins. Around the areola is a venous circle which receives veins from the nipple and areola. The 7ierves which supply the gland are the perforating terminal branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal nerves, while the skin over the organ is supplied partly by the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus and partly by the anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The writer has frequently found Pacinian corpuscles within the substance of the breast. The lymphatic system of the mamma demands170 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF careful attention on account of the important part it plays in the dissemination of carcinoma. According to Sappey, all the lymphatics which arise within the substance of the breast emerge from its anterior and posterior surfaces to open into a plexus of large vessels situated inider the areola. From this subareolar 'plexus the i'lG. 3.—Slice from the cancerous mamma of a woman, set. occupied the peripliery of the lower and outer quadrant; Nipple; b, sebaceous glands of areola; c, skin; d, 38 ; mari ied ; nine children. The tumour close to it was a mass of cancerous glands, corpus mammfe "—parenchyma consistin; chiefly of ducts; e, dilated ducts; /, peripheral processes of the "corpus mamma; " ; q, intramammary fat lobules; h, retromammary fat; i, pectoral fascia; k, the tumour—a typical nodular scirrhus, to which the superjacent skin is tacked down : I, cancerous infiltration of the adjacent breast tissue; m, cancerous axillary glands; n, blood-vessel; o, surgeon's cut-surface (sternal edge), showing peri- pheral processes of "corpus mammae" cut across. (Nitric acid preparation.) lymph is conveyed by two or three large trunks to the axilla. Langhans, on the other hand, holds that the efferent lymphatics of the gland occupy the retromammary tissue, the larger trunks generally following the blood-vessels. The writer's observations have led him to regard the lymphatic system of the mamma as Fig. 4.—Peripheral slice from the cancerous mamma of a spinster, set. 39. To illustrate some points in the normal anatomy of a well-developed gland, a. Stroma ; b, ultimate lobules of the parenchyma arranged in grape-like clusters around the terminal branches of the ducts; c, connective-tissue framework of circum- mammary fat (rf); e, surgeon's cut-surface with (/) breast tissue extending up to it. (Nitric acid preparation.) consisting of five sets of vessels, which com- municate with one another directly or indirectly —(1) A superficial or cutaneous set, including those of the nipple and areola; (2) the sub- areolar plexus of Sappey ; (3) the intra- mammary lymphatics ; (4) the subcutaneous and paramammary lymphatics; (5) the retromam- mary lymphatics. The cutaneous lymphatics and those intramammary lymphatics which accompany the main lactiferous ducts open into the subareolar plexvts, which, therefore, connects the two systems. The lymphatics of the para- mammary fat form a part of the general subcutaneous lymphatic system of the front of the chest. They occupy for the most part the ligaments of Cooper, and re- ceive, on the one hand, lymphatics from the true skin, and, on the other hand, efferent lymphatics from the anterior sur- face of the mamma. The retromam- mary lymphatics, including those of the pectoral fascia, receive all the efferent intra- mammary lym- phatics which leave the posterior surface of the gland ; along with the paramammary lymphatics they pass to the axillary fascia, which they pierce to join the axillary glands. In this way, therefore, the efferent lymphatics of the corpus mammfe, of the nipple and areola, of the skin and paramammary fat, open eventually into the lymphatics of the deep fascia ; the latter accompany the blood-vessels of the gland, pierce the deep fascia, and in this way ulti- mately reach the lymphatic glands which lie, for the most part, in chains alongside the axillary blood-vessels. Rotter has shown that some of the efferent mammary lymphatics perforate the sternal portion of the pectoralis major, along with branches of the internal mammary and of the pectoral and long thoracic branches of the axillary artery, to open into small lymphatic glands situated in the fascia covering the posterior surface of the pectoral muscle. It follows, therefore, that removal of the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major should always form part of the roiitine operation for car- cinoma of the mamma. A few of the lym- phatics from the upper and inner part of the mamma open into the sternal glands, placed along the internal mammary artery. The number of lymphatic glands found in the axilla is often much larger than is usually described. Some are almost microscopic in size, while others not infrequently imdergo such a marked adipose invohition as to be mistaken for ordinai'y fat lobules. The glands which are usually the first to become diseased in carcinoma of the breast are the pectoral group, which occupy the an-171 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF terior part of the inner wall of the axilla along the line of the long thoracic artery. In the later stages of the disease, the glands towards the apex of the axilla, as well as tliose below Fig. 5.—Opposite surface of the slice illustrated iu tlie previous figure, showing the appearance of the surgeon's cut-surface when the gland has not been completely removed. Same lettering as in Fig. 4. (Nitric acid preparation.) the clavicle, and the posterior group lying along the subscapular vessels, may all become infected. Some of the lymphatics of the mamma pass directly to the subclavicular glands without traversing the first or pectoral groiip. Congenital Anomalies Polymastia. —Supernumerary mam mary struc- tures occur more frequently than is generally supposed; they are often very rudimentary, and are liable to be overlooked, being not infrequently mistaken for moles or warty growths. In about two-thirds of the cases only one accessory structure exists ; a pair not infrequently occur, and as many as eight supernumerary nipples have been recorded. The accessory mammary structure takes the form of a more or less well-defined nipple, with or without an areola (polythelia); of a glandi^lar structure without a nipple; or, more rarely, of a perfect organ capable of undergoing complete functional evolution. Supernumerary nipples were found to occur in 7'6 per cent of a large series of subjects consecutively examined by Mitchell Bruce ; they were aboiit twice more common in males than in females. Williams has shown than in by far the greater number of instances of polymastia, the super- numerary structures are developed in positions which correspond to those occupied normally by the glands of polymastic animals. They are therefore almost invariably ventral, and occur along two lines which converge from the axillae to the groins; their existence is attributed to atavistic reversion. In fully three-fourths of the cases the additional mammary structure is situated a little below and internal to the normal mamma. Axillary mammse are de- cidedly rare; many of the cases which have been recorded as such are, in all probability, either modified sebaceous or sweat glands, or consist of an unvisually well-developed process of the mamma more or less completely seques- trated from the main gland. Accessory mammary structures have been met with between the normal pair and the axillae, in the middle line over the sternum, and upon the abdomen, but are very rarely present in other parts of the body. Undoubted ex- amples, however, have been met with upon the shoulder, the buttock, the thigh, and in the groin. The case recorded by Barth as occurring on the cheek was not confirmed by Waldeyer. Like polydactylism, polymastia is often heredi- tary ; occasionally it is associated with im- perfect development of the pelvic organs. Supernumerary mammary structures do not call for surgical interference unless they amount to a deformity, or unless the condition gives rise to pain and discomfort attendant upon their functional engorgement during pregnancy and lactation; in these circumstances the accessory structure should be excised. Amazia.— Complete absence of one or both breasts is a much rarer condition than poly- mastia. Generally it is only one breast that is absent, and, as in hare-lip, the deficiency is more frequent upon the left side. Amazia is very frequently associated with deficiency or total absence of the sternal fibres of the pecto- ralis major, and sometimes with imperfect de- velopment also of one or more of the subjacent ribs and intercostal muscles. A few cases have been reported in which the upper extremity on the corresponding side was defective. Scanzoni reports two cases of unilateral amazia associated with complete absence of the ovary on the cor- responding side. The subject of amazia is ably treated by John Thomson, who, besides report- ing three cases observed by himself, summarises the records of eighty-nine others. Microniazia.—Imperfect development of the mamma occurs more frequently than amazia and, like it, may be associated with deficiency in development of the chest and pelvic organs. The defective mamma maintains throughout life the infantile or male type, and if the subject of the defect be a female she often displays a tendency to masculine characteristics. Athelia.—Congenital absence of the nipple only is also commoner than amazia, and gener- ally affects both breasts. Along with acquired imperfection of the nipple, due to infantile mas- titis, ulcers, burns, etc., it owes its importance to the troubles to which it gives rise during the puerperium. Hypertrophy Hypertrophy of the mamma is a rare affection, and is, apparently, more commonly met with in tropical countries. In true hypertrophy both172 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF breasts are almost invariably affected, either simultaneously or the one shortly after the other. As to its causation, all that can be said is that puberty and pregnancy generally initiate the enlargement, which is greatly in excess of, as well as more progressive than, the evolution which normally occurs at these periods. In quite a number of cases which set in at or about the time of puberty sudden cessation of the catamenia has immediately preceded the enlargement, thus pointing to disturbances of the sexual organs as playing an important part in the causation. In a few instances breasts which have become abnormally enlarged during pregnancy, have subsequently diminished in size to become again still further hypertrophied at the next pregnancy. On the other hand, pregnancy has been known to cause a retro- cession of the enlargement. Occasionally the hypertropliy does not make its appearance until about the fortieth year, and may be unconnected with pregnancy. In these cases the enlarge- ment is less rapid, and soon comes to a stand- still. Williams draws attention to the records of several cases of mammary hypertrophy occurring in infancy and childhood, and associated with precocious sexual development. In regard to the nature of the affection, it has been stated that hypertrophied breasts do not secrete, and that, therefore, we have not to do with a true physiological hypertrophy. But Billroth, Lotzbuck, and Delbet have recorded cases in which an excessive secretion of normal milk has been observed in breasts which have become hypertrophied during pregnancy. As a rule, mammary liypertrophy is due mainly to excessive growth of the interacinous and peri- lobular connective tissue—such cases being, therefore, more of the nature of a diffuse fibro- matosis. Occasionally the fibrous tissue is oedematous, and the lymph spaces are unduly prominent, as in the lymphatic form of elephan- tiasis. In the cases which develop during pregnancy the parenchyma takes an active part in the overgrowth, and the breast, on section, is seen to be made up of a collection of more or less well-circumscribed, lobular, fibro-parenchy- matous masses embedded in a loose perilobular stroma. Quite exceptionally, the enlargement is due to an overgrowth of the intra- and para-mammary fat. The cutaneous veins are generally considerably enlarged, the arteries to a much less degree. The axillary glands are unaffected. Clinically, the disease is characterised by the great enlargement of the breasts. The growth generally sets in suddenly about the time of puberty, or during pregnancy, and not infre- quently it progresses so rapidly that in the course of a few months the breasts reach down to the umbilicus, or may even rest upon the thighs. In other cases the progress is less rapid, and the growth comes to a standstill. The consistence of the organ is at first normal, but, as growth advances, it becomes softer, and more oedematous, and ill-defined, firm, lobular masses may be felt in its substance. The skin is usually normal and non-adherent; occasion- ally it is considerably thickened and somewhat wrinkled. The cutaneous veins may be greatly enlarged. The nipple is often effaced, and the areola is greatly expanded. Pain is seldom complained of, but the patient is greatly incon- venienced by the size and weight of the organ. In aggravated cases the unfortunate sufferer is obliged to keep the recumbent posture, and respiration may be greatly embarrassed. In many cases, fortunately, growth is spon- taneously arrested. In cases which are both acute and progressive the breasts may reach a weight of from 10 to 20 lbs., or even more. In the very acute cases Billroth observed a marked cell proliferation in the connective tissue, and expressed the belief that in this variety the hypertrophy was combined with a sarcomatous condition. These observations, however, have not been confirmed by subsequent investigators. In consequence of the low vitality of the tissue, very slight injury suffices to set up ulceration followed by gangrene and death from blood-poisoning; or the fatal termination may arise from hectic fever and exhaustion, due to abscess-formation followed by copiously dis- charging sinuses. The diagnosis of hypertrophy of the breast should present no difficulty, the condition being readily distinguished from enlargements of the breast caused by cystic fibro-adenomata and rapidly growing sarcomata. Treatment.— In the majority of instances the only satisfactory method of dealing with these cases is by amputation. Before proceeding to operation, however, the effect of full doses of iodide of potassium, along with a dry diet, should ' be tried. The breast should be well supported and a compression bandage carefully applied. Great caution, however, should be exercised in the employment either of an elastic bandage or of strapping, on account of the readiness with which they may set up ulceration. For the same reason the adjacent skin surfaces of the breast and trunk should be kept apart, other- ! wise the intertrigo which occurs may be followed by more serious complications. The patient ; should be warned against matrimony, as the j stimulus of pregnancy is liable to set up a rapid ! and dangerous increase in the growth. An eu- I deavour should be made to restore the catamenia. ^ Statistics have shown that amputation of the organ, although necessarily an operation of con- siderable magnitude, is not specially dangerous, if means be taken to prevent hsemorrhage and sepsis. The breast should, as far as possible, be emptied of blood by keeping the patient re- cumbent for some days before the operation,MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 173 the organ being meanwhile carefully compressed and elevated. Haemorrhage may be reduced to a minimum by applying a rubber tourniquet to the base of the organ on the proximal side of two skewers passed through its base. The usual elliptical incision is made and two flaps are rapidly dissected towards the base, the assistant meanwhile supporting and manipu- lating the bulky organ to the best advantage of the surgeon. All visible vessels are caught up before I'emoving the tourniquet. The axilla need not, of course, be interfered with. The second breast may be removed as soon as the patient has sufficiently recovered from the first operation. Affections of the Nipple and Areola Congenital absence of the nipple (athelia) and supernumerary nipples (polythelia) have already been referred to under amazia and polymastia. Very rarely two distinct nipples occur on the one areola, and a bifid condition of the nipple is equally uncommon. The nipples may be abnormally small, de- pressed, or retracted. Such abnormalities are of considerable importance, as they render suckling either difficult or impossible, and act, therefore, indirectly as predisposing causes of mastitis. The worst cases are those in which the retrac- tion is the result of infantile mastitis, or of destruction and cicatrisation resulting from ulcers and burns. Many women naturally have small depressed nipples; in these cases judicious manipulation and the application of suction, either by an infant or an exhaustion pump, generally suffice to develop and draw out the organ. When these means fail, the simple plastic operation devised by Kehrer gives good results. It con- sists in the removal of two crescentic pieces of skin from the prominent ring of areola im- mediately surrounding the nipple. By suturing the edges of the wounds over the raw surfaces the depressed nipple becomes everted. Care must be taken not to injure the subjacent lactiferous sinuses. Of the inflammatory affections of the nipple the most important are the cracks, fissures, excoriations, ulcers, and eczematous conditions which occur more especially during lactation. These apparently simple affections are of great practical importance, not only on account of the great pain and distress they cause during the act of suckling, but also because they are the great predisposing causes of mammary abscess, and, therefore, their prevention and treatment demand special attention. The delicate and vascular condition of the integument of the nipple and areola, the facilities which its wrinkles and furrows and abundant sebaceous glands give for the harbouring of micro-organisms, the sodden condition of the part, and the mechanical irritation it receives from the child, all predispose to bring about the inflammatory lesions above mentioned. During pregnancy, especially towards the later months, the nipples should be kept scrupulously clean and dry; the skin, if tender, is to be strengthened by freqvient bathing with eau-de- Cologne, or other forms of spirit lotion; and the means already described are to be taken to draw out the nipple should it be depressed. During lactation, too much attention cannot be paid to the cleansing of the nipples as well as of the mouth of the child. The records of maternity hospitals show how seldom mammary complications occur during lactation if these points be attended to. Fissures and excoriations should be frequently bathed with a 1 to 40 carbolic solution, followed by an astringent lotion such as acetate of lead, the parts then being carefully dried and dusted with boracic powder. Before the child is applied to the breast the nipple should be bathed with boracic lotion. If the fissures are very painful they may be painted with a solution of glycerine and carbolic acid containing 10 per cent of cocaine. Occasionally it will be found necessary before the fissures can be induced to heal, to touch them with a finely-pointed pencil of nitrate of silver. When the child suffers from an ap>hthous condition of the mouth, Hansmaunn has pointed out that the fissures and excoriations of the nipple take on an aphthous character. Equal parts of boro-glycerine and glycerine is a useful application in such conditions, both in the mother and hi the child. A suhacute eczematous condition of the nipple and areola, attended with slight excoriation and crusting, may occur apart from lactation, the condition being due simply to want of cleanliness, combined with the irritation of badly-fitting corsets. The treatment, in addi- tion to cleanliness and the removal of mechanical causes of irritation, consists in the removal of the crust by means of boracic poultices, followed by the application of a non-irritating antiseptic ointment, such as Lassar's paste, or of an oint- ment of vaseline containing 5 per cent of am- moniated mercury. After the exudation has ceased, all that is necessary is to bathe the part with boracic lotion, dry thoroughly, and then dust on a little boracic powder. The in- tractable nature of some cases of eczema about the nipple and its great tendency to recur, are, no doubt, due to reinfection by organisms lodged in the mammillary ducts. Facet's disease of the nipple is a carcinomatous affection, and will be dealt with along with malignant affections of the breast. The nipple and adjacent areola is occasionally the seat of a primary syphilitic lesion. The condition is almost invariably met with in wet nurses who have suckled a syphilitic infant. It follows from Colles' law, to which only a few174 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF isolated exceptions have been recorded, that a syphilitic infant should be nursed only by its own mother. Very rarely, indeed, is primary syphilis of the breast met with apart from lacta- tion, and then generally by infection from the lips of a syphilitic male. The true nature of the affection is liable to be overlooked, as the sores are not infrequently multiple, and, moreover, they are generally atypical. Both nipples are occasionally affected. The lesion may take the form of an indurated fissure, an indurated ulcer, a phagedccnic ulcer, or a diffuse induration without ulceration. The frequent multiplicity is accounted for by the presence of more than one surface lesion at which the virus may enter. In doubtful cases the enlargement and induration of the axillary glands, followed by a secondary rash, serve to establish the diagnosis. A careful examination of the infant, along with an inquiry into the history of the case, will afford valuable corro- borative evidence. Secondary and tertiary syphilitic lesions of the nipple and areola in the form of superficial ulcers, condylomata, and deep tertiary ulcers, are more frequently met with than primary sores. The treatment of these various syphilitic affec- tions need not be detailed in this article. Apart from Paget's disease, neoplasms of the nipple and areola are of rare occurrence. The writer has observed cases of epithelioma, myx- oma (in the child), melanotic sarcoma, and simple and ca,vernous angioma. Papillomata have been recorded; they are generally pedunculated. The epitheliomata tend to grow outward in a papillomatous fashion, while at the same time they invade the breast. In the case of the melanotic tumour referred to, the primary growth was small, while the secondary foci, which occupied the substance of the breast, were much larger. The axillary glands were the seat of secondary growths. The whole breast was excised, but recurrent nodules soon appeared in the neighbourhood of the scar. Inflammatory Affections of the Mamma Inflammations of the breast itself generally occur during lactation, but they are liable to occur also about the time of puberty, and in the infant shortly after birth. It is at these periods of evolution that the limits of active growth and functional activity are liable to be overstepped, and the domain of pathology reached. Mastitis is much less commonly met with during the resting state of the gland. Mastitis of Infancy.—About a week after birth the rudimentary mammse, more especially of male infants, frequently become enlarged, firm, and tender, as the result of functional en- gorgement. The condition attains its maximum about the end of the first week, after which involution sets in. The microscope shows the enlargement to be due to an increase in the number of the acini, which are dilated and lined by a single layer of cubical epithelium containing milk-globules. A few drops of milk (" ivitch's milk ") can usually be squeezed from the nipple. If, during the evolutionary stage, an ignorant and meddlesome nurse milk the breast, or mani- pulate it with the idea of "loosening the nipple strings," she converts a physiological congestion into an inflammation attended by pain, redness, and swelling. Should her fingers be contami- nated with pus organisms from, say, a sup- purating umbilicus, from an ophthalmia, or other purulent affection, the chances are that she will introduce them into the ducts, and so convert a simple or non-organismal inflammatory congestion into a suppurative inflammation. The resulting abscess is usually superficial and soon comes to the surface. In more severe cases, however, the breast becomes completely disorganised. The writer has seen the condi- tion followed by suppurative lymphangitis and axillary abscess. Both breasts are occasionally involved. Mastitis of Adolescence.—In girls, at about the time of puberty, especially a little prior to the first catamenial flow, one of the breasts, instead of undergoing the normal gradual evolution, may become suddenly enlarged and give rise to a sense of fulness and discomfort amounting often to distinct pain. The nipple is generally reddened and somewhat turgid. The skin over the breast is unaltered, except perhaps for a slight fulness of the veins. To the touch the breast is abnormally firm, while, at its periphery, indurated and tender nodules can generally be distinctly felt. Both breasts are occasionally involved. Not infrequently a slighter degree of congestion recurs at each catamenial period, until that function becomes freely and regularly established. Spontaneous haemorrhages of a vicarious nature have been recorded as occurring in the breast in connection with the establishment of puberty. Treatment.— In the non-infective cases it is only necessary to apply either a boracic poultice or a lead lotion, and to give support and pro- tection to the organ by means of a covering of antiseptic wool and a bandage, which, in the majority of cases, should include the arm. When suppuration occurs, the pus should be evacuated early by an incision radiating from the nipple. In infants, when the whole breast is involved, the whole organ had better be removed; to leave it would be to sow the seeds of serious trouble in after-life, in the shape of mammary complications during the puerperium, and, perhaps, to render the individual more liable to malignant disease. A condition exactly analogous to the above is met with almost as frequently in males atMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 175 puberty; in them it is brought about more frequently by slight traumatisms, or by gym- nastic exercises involving over-action of the pectoral muscles. In both sexes it is rare for the congestion to pass on to abscess-formation ; when this complication occurs it is due to the entrance of pyogenic organisms into the gland, either by way of the ducts or through an abrasion of the nipple. In unhealthy sub- jects, however, the congested breast affords a locus minoris resistentiai for hgematogenic in- fection. Puerperal Mastitis.—Acute mastitis is rarely met with in the adult resting gland. When it does occur, it commonly results from a con- tusion followed, in an unhealthy sub- ject, by hfemato- genic infection with a pyogenic organ- ism. It is during lactation that acute mastitis is so liable to occur; during pregnancy it is far less common. In studying puerperal mastitis it is im- portant to distin- guish between the simple (non-infect- ive) and the sup- purative (infective) forms. The former is merely a diffuse or localised engorge- ment with con- gestion of the breast, brought about either by a sudden excessive secretion of milk, or by its retention, which may be due to blocking of the ducts, to the death of the infant, or to the inability of the mother to nurse the child. Clinically, the afFected area, sometimes the whole breast, is painful and swollen, while to the feel it is firm, knotty, and very tender. The skin may be slightly reddened and the veins are always dilated. The temperature is slightly elevated, reaching from 100° to 102° F. ; the patient feels shivery, but there are no distinct rigors. The first point to attend to in the treatment is to withdraw the milk, if possible, by placing an infant to the breast, and, failing this, by the careful application of a breast-pump. A hot boracic lint poultice, besides being comfort- ing to the patient, may bring about spontaneous escape of milk by softening and removing any epithelial plugs or crusts which may be blocking the orifice of the duct. The breast should be supported by either a triangular handkerchief or a suspensory bandage, and, if necessary, the patient must be kept recumbent with the breast supported by a soft cushion placed between the arm and the chest. If nursing has to be abandoned, the milk secretion should be arrested by the internal administration of iodide of potassium, combined, if necessary, with small doses of atropine. A saline purgative is administered daily, and the patient is put upon as dry a diet as possible. Should one of the lobes remain indurated, involution may be aided by gentle massage combined with the inunction of dilute nitrate of mercury ointment. If the induration per- sists, the breast should be carefully strapped with strips of plaster in order to keep up compression. Fig. 6.—From the mamma of a full-time female foetus, to show the secretion of milk, a, Epidermis covering the areola; h, site of future nipple; c, lactiferous ducts; d, terminal ducts widely dis- e, acini arranged in lobular cluster around a dilated duct; /, lymphoid cells; g, fibrous off processes into surrounding fat; I, fat behind mamma ; tended; stroma; h, fat; fc, capsule giving m, pectoral fascia. The suppttrative (infective) form of p>uerperal mastitis is by far the commonest cause of acute mammary abscess. The combined statistics, gathered from Birkett, Nunn, Bryant, Jamain and Terier, and Sheild, amounting in all to 799 cases of mammary abscess, show that of these 617 (77"2 per cent) occurred during lactation. As chronic abscesses are here included, we may say that 4 out of every 5 cases of mam- mary abscess occur during lactation, and of these the majority occur during the first two months after parturition. Of the 102 cases collected by Bryant, only 2 occurred during pregnancy; while of the 72 cases recorded by Nunn, 7 occurred during pregnancy. Both breasts are aff'ected with about equal frequency. The infective agent or exciting cause is generally the staphylococcus aureus, less fre- quently the streptococcus pyogenes, occasion- ally the gonococcus. Among the more prob- able sources of infection may be mentioned an unhealthy state of the infant's umbilicus, infantile furunculosis, ophthalmia neonatorum, and vaginal discharges, either leucorrhoeal or gonorrhoeal. Pathologists and clinicians, how-MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 176 ever, are not agreed as to whether the mammary ducts or the lymphatics are tlie usual channels along which the microbes reach the interior of the gland. Certain it is that fissures and abrasions of the nipple are almost invariably met with in patients suffering from mammary abscess. Mr. Sheild states that he has " never seen a case of acute manmiary abscess in a young woman without being able to observe by the aid of a lens breaches of surface in the vicinity of the nipple, by which organisms might readily enter the lacteal channels." The abscess not infrequently follows upon an attack of lymphangitis starting from an inflamed fissure. According to one view, the lymphangitis in addition to spreading from the nipple to the surrounding skin, extends along the intramammary lymphatics into the con- nective tissue stroma of the breast, where it gives rise to what is practically a phlegmonous cellulitis. According to the other view, the organisms first multiply in the infected tissues, and then enter the ducts, along which they spread to give rise to a suppurative catarrhal inflammation of the parenchyma, which soon spreads to the interacinous lymph spaces. No doubt both views are correct; the lymphatics of the breast are so closely related to the parenchyma that infection very readily spreads from the one to the other. Microscopically, the infected lobules are seen to be the seat of a dense, small-celled infiltration which rapidly destroys the epithelium of the acini. These foci undergo purulent softening which infiltrates the adjacent tissue, and by their enlargement and coalescence from larger collections separated at first by the denser tissue of the interlobular stroma. This tissue serves to confine the pus under considerable tension, which in the later stages is diminished by the inflammatory softening and necrosis of the interlobular septa. Ultimately there is formed an irregular, loculated, and diver- ticulated abscess cavity with ragged sloughing walls. The abscess may be confined to one lobe, or the greater part of the gland may be aff'ected from the first, or one lobe involved after another. The resulting abscess is spoken of as intramammary, premammary, or retromam- mary, in accordance with the situation of the pus, whether in the substance of the gland, under the areola, or in the loose areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle. Clinical Features.—The premammary abscess may take the form of a suppurative cellulitis, secondary to a lymphangitis starting from a fissure or ulcer about the nipple ; or it may result from a suppurative inflammation of one of the large sebaceous glands of the areola; or from a suppurative mastitis originating in one of the superficial lobules of the parenchyma situated under the areola. In all these varieties the skin becomes reddened at an early stage. There is less pain and tension than in the intramammary variety, and the constitutional symptoms are not so severe. If left to itself the abscess soon points and bursts sponta- neously ; occasionally the skin becomes exten- sively undermined and destroyed. The intramammary abscess is a more serious condition. The earliest signs are that the patient complains of a feeling of heat, weight, and tension in a part of the breast which is tender to the touch. The pain, which is greatly aggravated by suckling, becomes more severe and of a lancinating and throbbing character. The patient experiences a sense of chilliness, and there is often a distinct rigor. In severe cases the fever is high and often attended with delirium. The whole breast is seen to be enlarged, and there is a local fulness at the seat of abscess- formation. To the feel this area is firm, brawny, and exquisitely tender, and the local temperature is distinctly elevated. The skin is slightly oedematous, and its veins engorged. At a variable time after the onset of the symptoms, depending upon the depth of the affected area and the severity of the process, an area of softening or of deep-seated elastic fluctuation can be made out by careful palpation of the phlegmonous mass. Fluctuation gradually be- comes more distinct, the skin becomes red and glazed, and, if the abscess be left to nature, pointing and spontaneous evacuation take place. Coincident with the maturation of the abscess, there is generally a diminution in the severity of the pain and constitutional disturbance. Unfortunately, fresh areas of the breast are liable to become infected, leading, after an interval of a few days, to a second abscess, and others may form in rapid succession until the whole organ is involved. If neglected the abscesses burst, and saprophytic organisms become added to the pyogenic cocci originally present. Under these circumstances the patient suff"ers from hectic fever (chronic saprsemia) and exhaustion, consequent upon the copious and persistent discharge from the septic sinuses. The acute retromammary abscess is generally due to the rupture of a deep-seated intro- mammary abscess into the loose areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle. Much more rarely is the abscess a manifestation of a pysemic condition secondary to puerperal endometritis. The pus collects in large quantity in the loose retromammary tissue. The breast is pushed bodily forwards, and the organ presents a characteristically prominent and almost hemispherical appearance. Compared with the intramammary abscess the pain and constitutional symptoms are generally less pronounced, and the tension is not so great. On palpjation the breast feels as if it were resting upon a water cushion, and fluctuationMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 177 may readily be elicited by placing one hand above and the other below the organ. If left to itself the abscess generally points at the margin of the outer hemisphere; occasionally it reaches the surface through the thin upper and inner margin. Treatment.—A preTnammary abscess should be opened early by a comparatively small incision radiating from the nipple. The healing is hastened by curetting the wall of the cavity with a sharp spoon. If the abscess is small, one or two strands of iodoform worsted are introduced in preference to a drainage-tube. These may be removed on the third day, after which healthy granulation and cicatrisation rapidly occur, so that in many cases nursing of the infant need not be abandoned. Care must be taken to distinguish between a simple localised engorgement of the breast and the early stage of an intraviammary abscess. If an incision be made in the former condition severe hsemorrhage may result. In cases of doubt the milk should be examined for micro- organisms, and the indurated area should be carefully palpated morning and evening in search of any sign of softening or deep fluctuation. As soon as either is discovered no time is to be lost in having recourse to the knife. Every possible means must be taken to prevent con- tamination of the abscess with saprophytic organisms, otherwise the abscess will go on discharging for a lengthened period, and per- sistent sinuses are liable to form, A general anaesthetic should be administered, as the part is much too tender to admit of the skin being thoroughly purified without it. The incision should have a direction radiating from the nipple, with the double object of sparing the vessels as well as the ducts. It should be made directly over the softened or fluctuating area of the phlegmon, and it should be at least large enough to readily admit the finger, which must be introduced into the cavity in order to freely break down the sloughing remains of the intralobular septa which separate the various loculi of the abscess. One or more counter- openings are often necessary, as free drainage is all-important. Some surgeons, with whom the writer cannot agree, are opposed to free incisions and counter- openings, believing that they favour a spread of the inflammation by exposing healthy areas to microbic infection. He holds, on the contrary, that phlegmonous inflammations of the breast should be treated on the same principles as those occurring elsewhere, and that the surgeon will do better to err on the side of too free, rather than of too limited, incisions. If outlying suppurative foci are present, the wound should be opened out with retractors and the foci re- moved with a sharp spoon, aided, if necessary, by scissors. The wound, if larger than is necessary to admit a large drainage-tube, may VOL. VI be partially closed by the introduction of one or two deep silkworm-gut sutures. The drainage- tube should not be kept in longer than is necessary, as it tends to favour the formation of sinuses. Irrigation of the abscess at the time of operation with a hot weak antiseptic or sterile lotion has the advantage of washing away a quantity of sloughing tissue, while at the same time it arrests the bleeding. If the hfemorrhage prove troublesome the cavity should be firmly packed around a glass drainage-tube. Billroth records a case in which this did not suffice, but in which packing with gauze soaked in turpentine proved successful. The old plan of daily syringing out the abscess with a strong antiseptic solution should be had recourse to only in the event of sapro- phytic contamination; in the absence of the latter it is to be condemned, as it delays healing by lowering the vitality of the granulations lining the abscess. A moist antiseptic dressing is applied next the skin, and over this a liberal amount of sub- limated wool which should extend well down do wards the abdomen. The arm should be bandaged to the chest. When the abscess occurs towards the end of lactation, and the patient's general health is much reduced, a quinine and iron tonic, com- bined with some alcohol and a liberal diet, will prove of value. An acute retromammary abscess should be opened through an incision at the margin of the lower and outer quadrant. After the pus has been evacuated, the breast, which had been previously floated up, may sink down and inter- fere somewhat with the drainage; when this happens, a second incision should be made to- wards the sterno-clavicular margin of the breast. When persistent sinuses remain after puerperal mastitis the history is generally somewhat as follows: the sinuses have existed for several months or even for a year or so; they date back from the last puerperium, or, it may be, from the one before. The original abscess, which had been allowed to burst spontaneously, or had been imperfectly drained, was allowed to become infected with saprophytic organisms, and a succession of abscesses formed at diff"erent parts of the breast. The patient is pale and unhealthy-looking, and there will probably be some fever of a more or less hectic type. Should she become preg- nant and persist in nursing with the sound breast, not only are fresh abscesses almost certain to form in the diseased breast, but the sound one is also very liable to suppurate, due to contamination of its ducts with the discharges from the diseased organ. Nursing must there- fore be prohibited. Such persistent sinus-forma- tion will be prevented by early operation, free drainage, and the prevention of saprophytic contamination. 12178 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF To bring about healing of the sinuses the patient should be anaesthetised, and the sinuses thoroughly scraped out and swabbed with pure liquid carbolic acid ; they are then stuffed with iodoform gauze or iodoform worsted. If the sinus is blind, it should either be laid freely open, or a counter-opening should be made and the channel stuffed. If this does not suffice, the whole sinus, along with a wedge of adjacent breast tissue, should be excised, and the surfaces brought together with deep silkworm - gut sutures. Should the sinus proceed from a firm and deeply-seated induration, the possibility of a superimplanted malignant affection must be kept in mind. In such a case the axilla should be carefully examined, and, if there be any doubt about the diagnosis, the surgeon must obtain the consent of the patient to remove the whole breast should further in- vestigation at the time of operation reveal a state of malignancy. When the breast is riddled with a network of anas- tomosing sinuses excision of the whole organ is the only course open to the surgeon. When a mam- mary abscess ulcerates into a large duct, or when the latter is wounded in opening the abscess, a 7nilk fistula is liable to form. The fistula is not a serious complication, as it is almost certain to close with the cessation of lactation. Chronic Mastitis.—For descriptive as well as practical purposes we may speak, apart from the chronic suppurative forms, of two main varieties of mastitis, viz., the interstitial and the lobular, both of which may involve either the whole breast or only a part of it. In the interstitial form the inflammation especially affects the stroma, involving the interlobular, as well as the interacinous, connective tissue. In the latter form the inflammation is mainly parenchy- matous ; that is to say, it is practically confined to the lobules of the gland, and involves there- fore the acini and the ducts along with the inter- acinous connective tissue. The changes in the parenchyma very frequently lead to the forma- tion of cysts, hence under this heading is in- cluded multiple cystic disease of the breast. The lobular variety may also be associated with the formation of small fibro-adenomatous nodules, the result of an inflammatoi-y hyperplasia and sclerosis of the interacinous connective tissue of certain of the lobules. Lastly, the disease may be still further complicated by the formation of papillomatous or villous ingrowths within the dilated ducts and cysts, thus bringing the affec- tion into close relationship with the simple epithelial neoplasms. Hence the changes, both in the connective tissue and in the epithelium, may reach a point at which it is difficult to say where simple inflammatory connective-tissue hyperplasia and simple epithelial proliferation end, and where true tumour formation (neo- plasia) begins. It is not surprising, therefore, that in recent years so much attention should have been directed to a disease which opens up questions of such wide interest to the pathologist and of such importance to the surgeon. Diffuse Interstitial Mastitis {General Fibrosis of the Mamma).—This is a rare affection. The etiology and pathogenesis are even more obscure Fig. 7.—Vertical slice through the mamma of a stout woman who suffered for two years from multiple sinuses resulting from puerperal mastitis. The breast tissue, arranged in the form of an irregular network, shows several contracted sinuses cut transversely. of diffuse lobular mastitis. than in the case The proliferative changes in the glandular epithelium are much less marked than in the lobular form, and, unlike the latter, there is no tendency to the formation of cysts. As a rule only one breast is affected. The disease, which occurs in the married as well as in the single, seldom begins before the fortieth year, and is most frequently met with about the time of the menopause. There is no history of injury or of a previous mastitis. The onset is very insidious and the progress exceedingly slow. Little or no pain is complained of. When the disease is well developed the breast is found to be enlarged and prominent, the skin normal and non-adherent, and the nipple usually small or somewhat retracted. The organ is firmer than normal, and freely movable upon the pectoral muscle. Tlie limits of the corpus mammse are well defined, and, while some parts feel firmer than others, it lacks altogether the coarsely granular feel of a lobular mastitis. The axillary glands are normal. On sliciruj the freshly removed organ the enlarged corpus mammte is seen to be repre- sented by a compact mass of dull white, tough,179 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF fibrous tissue, with scarcely any parenchyma visible to the naked eye. The microscope shows everywhere an increased amount of dense and somewhat sclerosed fibrous tissue, very poor both in connective tissue and corpuscles and blood-vessels. Here and there, at wide intervals, are the mammary ducts, con- nected with which are a few atrophied acini. There is a want of differentiation between intralobular and interlobular connective tissiie, and the fatty tissue of the mamma is almost entirely replaced by fibrous tissue. From the absence of any signs of inflammation, either clinically or histologically, the name diffuse fibrosis, originally given to the affection by Virchow, is very appropriate. The disease differs from hypertrophy of the mamma in that the fibrous over- growth is not progressive. After a vari- able duration, lasting generally for many months, or even two or three years, the disease comes to a standstill. More rarely the fibrous tissue undergoes an irregular cicatricial atrophy leading to retraction of the nipple, irregular puckering of the skin, and shrinkage of the whole organ. Although a rare disease, the writer has deemed it advisable to dwell upon it on account of the fact that it is very liable to be mistaken for a diffuse carcinoma: the few specimens which the writer has had an opportimity of examining have all been removed on this supposition. The long history, the consistence of the organ —firm and tough instead of dense and hard,—and the absence of lymphatic glandular enlargement, are the main features which serve to distinguish it from carcinoma. It must be admitted, however, that in the stage of cicatricial atrophy with puckering of the skin and retraction of the nipple, the resemblance to a diffuse atrophic scirrhus is so close that a clinical diagnosis may be impossible. Treatment.—As pointed out by Sheild, the disease is so closely analogous to the syphilitic interstitial inflammations of glandular organs that a specific history should be carefully in- quired into, and, even if this cannot be elicited, a course of iodide of potassium along with mercurial inunction should always be given a trial. The inunction may, with advantage, be combined with strapping and a firmly applied bandage. The liniment of the iodide of potassium is another useful local application. In the early stage, when the disease is advan- cing, a belladonna plaster should be applied. In cases where the diagnosis is at all doubtful a diagnostic incision should be made, and if this does not suffice to clear up the doubt the organ should be removed. Chronic Lobular Mastitis and Multiple Cystic Disease.—Fibroma mammce lobulare (Virchow); Mastitis chronica cystica (Konig); Maladie cystique de la mamelle (Reclus). This is an interesting and important affection of the mamma, both from the pathological and clinical point of view. The nature and patho- logy of the disease has given rise to considerable discussion, and it is not surprising, therefore, to find it described under a variety of names, the particular designation selected depending upon whether the inflammatory, the cystic, or the neoplastic element is regarded as the essential factor in the morbid process. From personal observation the writer regards the condition as a chronic lobular mastitis, which is attended Fig. 8 Chronic lobular mastitis and multiple cystic disease; from an unmarried woman, jet. 40. The normal grape-like arrangement of the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma around one of tlie ducts is well shown. The stroma surrounding the duct is sclerosed ; the inter- acinous connective tissue is increased in amount, and shows a con- nective tissue proliferation and a slight leucocyte infiltration. Some of the acini are dilated, others compressed ; the epithelium of the acini Is proliferating, but is confined within the basement membrane. To the extreme right is a portion of the wall of a small cyst. with proliferative as well as degenerative and cystic changes on the part of the epithelium of the gland parenchyma. The disease has a close analogy to the early, or glandular, stage of prostatic hypertrophy. The term " mastitis chronica cystica" (Konig) is that which best expresses the nature of the disease. The disease is usually met with in unmarried, or in married but childless, women from thirty to forty years of age. Both breasts are almost invariably affected, either simultaneously or one after the other. There is seldom any history of injury, but the irritation of badly fitting corsets may in some instances be an element in the causation. The subjects of the disease are commonly spare and rather delicate - looking women, who are very frequently the subjects of dysmenorrhcea.180 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF The patient generally complains that for some time back she has had some uneasiness in the breast of the nature of a sensation of in- creased weight and fulness, accompanied fre- quently by sharp stinging or tearing pains which may shoot up towards the shoulder or down the arm. These pains, brought on at first by any stretching or straining movements of the arm, or by handling the breast, may occvir spontaneously and may even interfere with sleep. The subjective symptoms are always more severe during the catamenial period. Inspection does not usually reveal any objec- tive signs except perhaps a slight increased fulness at some parts of the breast. The skin Fig. 9.—From the same case as Fig. 8. Shows a variety of changes in the parenchyma; in some of the lobules the acini are enlarged and lined by columnar cells, in others the acini are compressed and atrophied. To the right of the field are portions of two dilated ducts containing papillomatous ingrowths. Interlobular tissue somewhat sclerosed. over the breast is normal; on squeezing the organ a little yellowish, mucoid fluid can often be expressed from the nipple. Careful iMljMtion shows that the organ is somewhat firmer and less uniform in consistence than normal; the breast tissue has a coarse or knotty feel, due partly to enlargement and induration of its lobules, and partly to the presence of small shot-like cysts. One or more of the lobules or cysts may enlarge to form a little "tumour," and it is generally the presence of this "knot" or " lump" which causes the patient to seek advice. Not infrequently the lump is large enough to give rise to a visible prominence, and the patient becomes alarmed as to the possi- bility of cancer, which is too often erroneously diagnosed. Morbid Anatomy.—On slicing up the organ, the corpus mammae will be found to be well developed and to contain but little intra- mammary fat. To the knife as well as to the touch the fibrous stroma is tough and yielding, but not hard and grating as in malignant disease. Moreover, it will be observed that the indurated areas are less defined than would be expected from clinical examination, thus differ- ing from the indurations of malignant disease. The gland parenchyma is usually more abundant, and its ultimate lobules larger than in the normal resting gland. The ducts are generally somewhat dilated, and often contain a thick mucoid or creamy - looking fluid. Scattered throughout the gland are many small tense cysts, which are most numerous towards the deep surface and peripheral parts of the gland. They vary in size from a mustard seed or less to a pea, while to the feel they are tense and shot-like. Occasionally one or more of the cysts may enlarge to form a distinct tumour the size of a cherry or a bantam's egg. The cysts are generally isolated, though occasionally several are clustered together. Their walls are formed by, and therefore in- separable from, the breast tissue in which they are embedded, a fact worthy of note from the operative point of view, as it explains why they cannot be shelled out. They are more or less spherical and filled with a viscid mucoid fluid, which is some- times clear and colourless, but more fre- quently turbid and of a yellowish, brownish, or greenish colour. Microscopically, the contents consist of granular detritus mixed with degenerating epithelial cells, either granular or dropsical. The larger cysts may contain cholesterine crystals and altered blood pigment. The morbid histology of the affection is characterised by the great variety of the appearances which are met with. The changes are confined almost entirely to the ultimate lobules of the parenchyma, that is to say, to the gland acini aud smaller ducts, along with the vascular connective-tissue stroma which immediately supports them, viz., the in- tralobular or interacinous connective tissue. Many of the lobules are quite healthy. In others the early change consists in a prolifera- tion of the interacinous connective tissue, along with some enlargement of the acini and pro- liferation of their epithelial lining. In some lobules the interacinous connective tissue is increased in amount and altered in character, being sclerosed and poor in connective-tissue corpuscles and blood-vessels. The acini are therefore widely separated, as well as deformed and atrophied by the pressure of the cicatrising interacinous tissue; here and there the latter may be seen to push its way into a dilated acinus or intralobular duct in the form of aMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 181 more or less pedunculated simple or somewhat papilliform intracanalicular fibrous growth. When several adjacent lobules are similarly affected there is produced an inflammatory fibro- adenomatous nodule sufficiently large to be detected clinically as a small nodule or tumour- like growth. Occasionally several such nodules may be detected in the same breast, which shows all the stages of their evolution from a normal lobule. These little tumours afford, therefore, an excellent illustration of the close relationship between a growth the result of a simple inflamma- tory connective- tissue hyperplasia, and a true tumour. In other lobules, again, it is the e/Jt- thelium which is chiefly affected, the acini being enlarged and full of prolifer- ating epithelial cells; other acini are merely dilated into microscopic cysts lined with a single layer of cubical or low col- vimnar epithelium. Occasionally one meets with a lobule all the acini of which are dilated, and lined with a single layer of tall cylindrical cells placed upon an hypertrophied base- ment membrane lined by peculiar elongated spindle- shaped cells. These minute acin- ous cysts are some- times filled with mucoid or colloid- looking globules, some of which may be seen to protrude from the free end of the cylindrical cells. Others of the cysts contain delicate papillary projections, also covered by similar cylindrical cells. A careful study of the mode of formation of the small cysts which are visible to the naked eye has convinced the writer that, while some may be due to dilatation of the duct, the majority are the result of degenerative changes in the acini. The irritation of the mamma, which proceeds probably from the pelvic sexual organs, or possibly from a microbic infection of the ducts, throws the mammary epithelium into a state of morbid activity, the functional result of which is the production of a mucoid fluid, which, as it accumulates, leads to pressure, atrophy, and destruction of the walls of the acini, ending finally in the formation of a cyst whose wall is formed by the surrounding perilobular connective tissue. In support of this explanation of their mode of origin may be adduced the circumstance that the cysts are often in clusters, and that remains of inter- acinous and interlobular septa are frequently seen projecting into them. In the larger cysts all trace of an epithelial lining disappears, and this, presumably, is why they are sometimes. ...A pi J / FlO. 10.- Chronic lobular mastitis from an unmarried woman, set. 38. The upper part of the field shows a lobule which has been converted into a flbro-adenomatous nodule. though quite erroneously, regarded as serous or lymphatic cysts. Course and Termination.—The disease runs a slow course. Resolution may gradually take place, especially at the menopause when atrophy of the parenchyma normally occurs. Frequently, however, slow enlargement of one or more of the cysts takes place and calls for operative treatment, and this enlargement may subsequently aft'ect other cysts. Sudden enlargement of a cyst points to haemorrhage into it. Occasionally the cystic degeneration of the parenchyma becomes more and more marked until the whole organ is riddled with cysts; these, as they enlarge, cause atrophy and182 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF condensation of the intervening tissue, until finally the breast is represented by an aggrega- tion of cysts of various sizes separated by thin, membranous-looking, and often imperfect septa. Nowadays, however, the disease is rarely allowed to advance to such an extent, but examples of it will be found in most museums. There is no evidence to show that the pro- liferative epithelial changes are precancerous and destined to develop into carcinoma. In the exceptional cases in which this does occur, the writer is of opinion that the variety of cancer which results is the least malignant form, viz., that which has been described by Halstead under the name of adeno-carcirioma. Treatment.—In the early stages of the trouble on active treatment is called for. The subjects Fig. 11.—Small painful inflammatory flbro-adenomatous nodule removed from a patient suttering fioni chri.nic lobular mastitis. The "tumour" is chiefly made up of an inflammatory overgi'owth of the interacinous tissue which deforms and often projects into the acini as irregular pedunculated ingrowths forming one variety of the so-called intra- canalicular fibro-adenoma. of the affection are often neurotic and unduly anxious as to the nature of the condition. The patient's mind should be relieved, and steps should be taken to improve the general health and to remedy any disturbance in the functions of the generative organs. Great benefit is sometimes derived from change of air and the provision of a healthy occupation. Locally, a compress bandage or strapping may be applied, the latter being especially useful if the patient is in the habit of frequently handling the organ. If pain be the chief complaint, a belladonna application should be prescribed. Should the patient complain of a painful, en- larged, and indurated lolnile, the surgeon should not hesitate to excise it, as when once the mental anxiety is removed it will generally be found that further treatment is neither solicited nor required. Should one of the cysts become enlarged it should be excised. In regard to the operation, it must be re- membered that the cyst has no definite walls and cannot, therefore, be shelled out; that it is often deeply seated ; that the adjacent indurated and sclerosed breast tissue must be removed along with the cyst, and that some hsemorrhage is to be anticipated. It is advisable, therefore, to administer a general anaesthetic rather than to attempt to do the operation under cocaine. In cutting down upon the cyst the part of the breast containing it should be fixed between the finger and thumb, and the incision should be made in a direction radiating from the nipple. When the breast tissue is reached the wound is opened up by retractors. The portion of breast containing the cyst is grasped with vulsella forceps, pulled forwards, and resected. If the cyst be accidentally opened, its removal will be facilitated by stuffing it with gauze. The divided vessels of the breast substance are difficult to ligature in consequence of the compact nature of the fibrous tissue; plugging of the wound for a few minutes, however, generally suffices to arrest the bleeding. The cut surfaces of the corpus mammae may be brought together with one or two buried catgut sutures, or with deep sutures of silkworm-gut including the skin. It is advisable to introduce a drainage-tube or strip of gauze, as there is generally some oozing. A stitch may be introduced at the site of the drain and left untied ; on removal of the latter at the end of forty-eight hours, the opening is closed by tying the suture. It not infrequently happens that an incision made into a portion of the breast leads to the discovery of other cysts in the neighbourhood. It is important, therefore, before operating to obtain the sanction of the patient to remove the whole organ if necessary ; this is a pro- cedure which should certainly be followed if duct papillomata or intracystic growths be detected. The axilla, however, need not be interfered with. If the patient does not consent to complete ex- cision, the smaller cysts which are left must be dealt with at a future time should they become enlarged. As the disease is often bilateral both breasts may, unfortunately, have to be sacrificed. It is frequently a difficult matter to decide as to the extent of the surgical interference de- manded in many of these cases. Much depends upon the view which is taken of the pathology of the condition. If the proliferative changes in the glandular epithelium are to be regarded as precancerous, then unhesitatingly the whole breast should be removed. The question is still subjudice, and until it is settled it is justifiable for the surgeon to err upon the safe side and to remove the whole organ. In considering the question of operation, it isMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 183 to be borne in mind that the abnormal activity of the glandular epithelium frequently ceases at the menopause, and that as a result of the retrogressive changes which take place at this period harmless involution cysts alone remain. Circumscribed Chronic Mastitis. — Localised chronic inflammatory indurations of the mamma are met with at any time from maturity almost to advanced life. They are due to a variety of causes, the most common being prolonged lacta- tion, traumatisms of various kinds, such as blows, the pressure of badly fitting corsets, and the presence of foreign bodies; they may follow the opening of an abscess, or suppuration result- ing from the removal of a simple tumour or cyst (Sheild). Other causes are similar to those which produce the diffuse forms of the disease. The commonest form is that which is met with in women who have unduly prolonged suckling; and instead of the breast undergoing the normal involution, an indurated and tender area remains. This may slowly resolve, or it may lead to the formation of a chronic abscess. Not infrequently, however, the lump persists for many months, or even longer, and there can be no doubt that in some instances carcinoma is superimplanted. A second variety of local inflammatory swell- ing is that which is produced when a limited area of the breast becomes the seat of chronic lobular mastitis, with or without the formation of cysts. In most instances, except when the localisation is determined by a traumatism, the remainder of the breast, as well as its fellow, gives evidence, sooner or later, of the early stage of general lobular mastitis. The lump or induration which is present in the breast con- sists either of a collection of enlarged and in- durated lobules, or of a cluster of small cysts embedded in a chronically inflamed stroma, or of a single larger cyst surrounded by a zone of inflamed and indurated breast tissue. A third variety of local induration occurs in the involuted breast at or about the time of the menopause. Pathologically it consists of a localised interstitial inflammatory sclerosis of the stroma, the parenchyma being either atro- phied or converted into an involution cyst. Localised mastitis, whatever its cause or nature, owes its importance to the fact that it gives rise to a condition which is often very difficult, and sometimes even impossible, to distinguish clinically from carcinoma. The affected area presents itself in the form of a more or less well-defined and somewhat nodular tumour-like induration. Pain may be absent but tenderness on pressure is almost invariably present. Occasionally the patient complains of a dull, aching sensation in the lump. In rare instances, more especially in neurotic women, the pain is severe and lancinating. The lump, although firm and indurated, wants the charac- teristic woody hardness and density of a carci- noma. When picked up between the finger and thumb it appears to be fairly well defined, but more careful palpation shows that the in- duration fades away into the surrounding breast tissue. If the lump be pressed bodily back- wards against the ribs with the flat of the hand, its density is not sufficient to prevent it from yielding, and consequently it loses the more definite tumour-like feel which it gives when simply picked up between the finger and thumb. A scwrhus carcinoma, on the other hand (unless small and deeply embedded in a large fat mamma), has a well-defined outline, and the more firmly it is pressed against the chest wall the more distinctly are its density and limits appreciated, and the more does it give one the idea of a dense body foreign to the breast. Except when there has been a former abscess, the skin over a simple induration is unaltered and can be readily pinched up from oif it, whei'e- as over a scirrhus it is generally more or less tacked down to the lump so tliat it wrinkles when an attempt is made to pinch it up. Too much reliance must not be placed upon the condition of tlae nipple, which may be either normal or retracted in both conditions. In mastitis the axillary glands may be slightly enlarged from simple irritative hyperplasia. Lastly, let it be remembered that, in the case of a scirrhus, tenderness to pressure is generally consjncuous hy its ahsence. When all has been said, it must be confessed that in some cases nothing short of a diagnostic incision suffices to definitely establish a diagnosis. In the treatment of the localised form of chronic mastitis the same lines are to be followed as in dealing with general lobular mastitis. The excision of a localised inflammatory induration or a cluster of small cysts is carried out in the manner already described under the treatment of a cyst associated with lobular mastitis. In all cases where there is the least suspicion that the lump may be malignant, the surgeon must be fully prepared to do a radical operation. The question of diagnostic incisions and explo- ratory operations will be fully considered under the treatment of carcinomata. Non-tuherculo^LS Chronic Abscess of the Breast. —Since the discovery of the tubercle bacillus, chronic or cold abscesses have been shown to be almost invariably of tuberculous origin. The breast, however, is apparently the most notable exception to this rule, non-tuberculous chronic abscess being more frequently met with in it than in any other part of the body. In some instances the abscess develops at the site of a former acute abscess, as is evidenced by its relation to an old scar. It is more than probable, therefore, that in such cases we have to do with a latent or dormant and attenuated infection, which, in consequence of some injury, strain, exposure to cold, or functional conges- tion, aided perhaps by a general lowering ofMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 184 the health, has become excited into pathogenic activity, resulting in the slow formation of pus unattended by the usual clinical signs of inflam- mation. In many cases of chronic abscess there is a very definite history of a blow upon the breast a few months previously, the accident causing slight bruising, a severe contusion, or a hgematoma. In other cases the abscess is the resiilt of suppuration of a galactocele or of some other form of cyst. In all these cases we have a locus minoris resistentiw to which the pyogenic organisms gain access by way of the ducts or along the lymphatics, the atrium in the latter case being furnished by a sore or fissure on the nipple; or the organisms may be carried to the part by the blood-stream. Occasionally the abscess develops without apparent cause. The relative frequency of the condition is greater in married than in single women, and it occurs most frequently during middle adult life. The abscess, which is almost invariably single, is generally situated in the centre of the corpus mamm£e. Clinically, it presents itself as a firm, and usually somewhat nodular, tumour-like mass with a fairly well-defined outline. It is gener- ally tender to pressure, and in the later stages deep elasticity or more definite fluctuation may be felt. The nipple is retracted in rather more than half the cases—in 13 out of 22 cases analysed by Williams. Of this number the same authority found the overlying skin adherent in 6, some glandular enlargement in the axilla in 5, an indistinct sense of fluctua- tion in 5, and a puriform discharge from the nipple in 2. In half the cases the affection dated back only six months, and in only 5 did it exceed one year. In some instances the whole mamma is indurated throughout, and the overlying skin may be slightly reddened and oedematous. These non-tuberculous forms of chronic ab- scess owe their importance to the fact that, clinically, their resemblance to carcinoma may be very close. In Mr. Marmaduke Sheild's excellent work on Diseases of the By-east will be found notes of several such cases. When the wall of the abscess is thick and dense the swelling may possess the stony hard- ness of cancer, and as the nipple is often re- tracted and the pectoral axillary glands slightly enlarged and indurated, it is not surprising that it is within the experience of many surgeons to have removed such a breast on the supposition that the disease was malignant. Occasionally an additional cancerous sign may be present in the shape of fixation of the breast to the deeper parts, due to the adhesion of the wall of the abscess to the pectoral fascia. If the mass be distinctly tender to pressure, somewhat elastic instead of dense, and with its outlines not par- ticularly well defined, tlie diagnosis is strongly in favour of abscess. The treatment is to make an exploratory puncture or incision in all cases where the dia- gnosis is in the least degree doubtful. After evacuating the pus, the unhealthy granulations lining the abscess are scraped away with a Volkmann's spoon. The cavity is cleaned out with a gauze swab and a drainage-tube intro- duced, or, if the cavity be small, iodoform gauze or worsted may be substituted for the tube. When there is widespread infiltration and inflammatory induration of the breast tissue around the abscess the whole organ had better be removed, and the same course should be adopted if there be any suspicion that the ad- jacent induration is the result of carcinomatous infiltration. It is in just such doubtful condi- tions that the nitric acid test is so valuable. If the indurated mass be excised, cut across, and placed in a 5 per cent solution of the acid for a few minutes, and then washed in water, there will seldom be any difiiculty in deciding whether the induration is due to malignant disease or merely to connective-tissue hyper- plasia and sclerosis; in the former case the tissue will have a dull white appearance and a dense or hard consistence, while in the latter case the fibrous tissue becomes swollen and more or less translucent, and the consistence, instead of being hard, will be tough and leathery or india-rubber-like. Tuberculosis of the Mamma Tuberculous disease of the mamma is a rare affection. As scrofulous disease it was known (according to Williams) to John Hunter, and subsequently was clearly described by Astley Cooper. In 1881 Dubar published his classical thesis upon tuberculosis of the mamma, and an exhaustive paper by Gautier contains an analysis of seventy-seven cases. In the Annals of Surgery for 1898 Halstead and Le Count preface the report of a case by a review of the literature on the subject, combined with a useful summary of our present knowledge of this condition. Only some three or four cases have been reported as occurring in the male breast. In the female the disease generally occurs between the ages of twenty-five and thirty-five, never before puberty, and very rarely after the meno- pause. It is very seldom that both breasts are affected. The disease occurs as frequently in the single as in the married, and is not more frequent in the married who have nursed their children. The condition is generally preceded or accompanied by tuberculous manifestations in other parts, more especially in the lungs, pleura;, axillary and cervical glands, less fre- quently in the bones and joints. The tubercle bacilli, generally few in number, and occasionally not to be demonstrated at all, may reach the gland by way of the blood- vessels, the lymphatics, or the milk ducts.185 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF The relative frequency, however, with which each of these channels is involved is a matter of dispute. In many instances it can be de- monstrated that the disease is conveyed to the mamma from the axillary glands or from the pleura. According to the stage to which the morbid process has reached, Dubar distinguishes two forms of the disease, viz., the early or dissemi- nated and the late or confluent. Microscopically, the morbid process is essen- tially the same as that which is observed in tuberculosis of a glandular organ : for example, the testicle. The first change is a leucocyte infiltration and connective-tissue proliferation of the periacinous and periductal supporting tissue. The acini, at first distinctly recognis- able, become invaded, and ultimately destroyed. Giant cells sooner or later make their appear- ance and stamp the tissue as tuberculous. As this is an infective process, these changes gradually spread to adjacent lobules until numerous tuberculous caseating nodules varying in size from a small pea to an almond are developed {disseminated nodular form of Dubar). It is by the enlargement along with the caseous softening and coalescence of these nodules that the confluent form of the disease results, giving rise to the formation of a firm, nodular, and somewhat ill-defined tumour-like mass which produces a general or localised enlargement of the breast. The centre of the mass forms an irregiilar caseous abscess from which diverticula and pockets, separated by imperfect septa, extend into the surrounding breast tissue. The gradual spread of the area of infection ultimately allows of the detection of softening and fluctuation at one or more points. Next the subcutaneous tissue becomes involved; then the skin, which ultimately gives way, and leads to the formation of sinuses with undermined edges and a tuberculous discharge. The axillary glands are diseased in 75 per cent of the cases, and their enlargement is often noticed long before the breast itself manifests any clinical signs of the disease. When infection of the glands is delayed until after the disease in the breast is well advanced, they enlarge rapidly and soon become converted into caseous abscesses. Sometimes indurated breast tissue can be traced from the affected area of the breast to the diseased glands. The commencement of the disease is slow and insidious, and as a rule little or no pain is complained of. In the disseminated form, which is rarely diagnosed before abscesses and sinuses have formed, the breast and skin over it have a perfectly normal appearance. On palpation, however, one or more nodules can generally be discovered. In the early stage the disease is liable to be mistaken for simple lobular mastitis or for multiple cystic disease, and when only one tuberculous nodule can be felt, for fibro- adenoma. In the later stages, especially when the axillary glands have become secondarily involved, and when there are no tuberculous manifestations elsewhere, it is very liable to be mistaken for malignant disease with cystic degeneration. The confluent form is very apt to be mistaken for a new growth, especially for a carcinoma.; the tuberculous mass, however, is not so hard, nor does it involve the skin in the same way as a scirrhus. The prognosis as regards the mamma is bad, as the disease slowly leads to its destruction ; the prognosis as regards life depends less upon the mammary aff'ection than upon the associated tuberculous lesions in other parts of the body. The treatment of both forms of the disease is the same, viz., removal of the whole breast and the axillary glands. Less radical operations, such as curetting or partial excisions, are almost certain to be followed by reappearance of the disease. On no account should a patient with a tuberculous breast be allowed to nurse her child. It is very rare to meet with a typical smooth- walled tuberculous abscess in the mamma with the rest of the organs healthy. A retromam- mary tuberculous abscess secondary to tuber- culosis of a rib, or of the pleura, is, on the other hand, by no means rare. The treatment of these conditions need not be specially referred to, as it is the same as that of tuberculous abscesses elsewhere. Actinomycosis Until the characteristic seed-like bodies were discovered in the discharge from the chronic abscesses to which the fungus gives rise, the few cases of actinomycosis which have been recorded were diagnosed originally as tubercle or syphilis, more often as the former. The disease leads to the formation of sinuses, ad- hesion of the skin, and much induration of the breast tissue. The safest treatment is to excise the whole breast. The prognosis in the primary form of the disease depends upon whether metastasis has occurred, while in the secondary form it is influenced by the site of the primary lesion. In the primary form the parasite prob- ably gains entrance by way of the ducts, but cases have been recorded in which the breast has been accidentally infected at an operation. Neuralgia of the Mamma—Mastodynia In typical examples of this aff'ection the breast is the seat of severe neuralgic pain, unassociated with any discoverable abnormality. The con- dition is generally met with in young unmarried neurotic, and often hysterical women, who are frequently the subjects of disorders connected with the pelvic genital organs. Usually only one breast is complained of, but not infrequently186 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF the opposite breast is also painful, but to a less degree. The pain, which is described as intense and burning, starting, or shooting, is usually inter- mittent, and worse during the menstrual period. It may be localised or general throughout the breast, and it frequently radiates towards the root of the neck, the axilla, and down the inner side of the upper arm. In most cases the pain is greatly aggravated by handling the organ, and sometimes the slightest touch sets up a severe paroxysm. In those cases in which the pain is always referred to the same spot, care- ful palpation may reveal the presence of an indurated lobule, or small cyst, and there is often evidence of chronic lobular mastitis elsewhere throughout the breast. Occasionally, a subcutaneous neuro-fibroma will be found to be the cause of the pain. The first point to attend to in dealing with neuralgic affections of the breast is to carefully examine the organ for such local conditions as above referred to. Should one or other of them be discovered, its removal by operative measures is advisable, as, in addition to pain, the patient is often terrified by the belief that she is the subject of cancer. When no local cause can be discovered a belladonna plaster should be applied, and the patient should be reassured that there is no disease. Any menstrual irregularity or disease of the pelvic organs should, of course, receive appropriate treatment. Quinine, iron, and nux vomica are of great service if the general health be un- satisfactory. In neurotic and hysterical cases too much attention should not be paid to the local condition; change of air and, more particularly, also of the social conditions and surroundings of the patient generally suffice to put an end to the trouble. Cysts Galactocele.—This is the name which is given to a milk cyst which develops most frequently during the period of lactation, occasionally during pregnancy, and very rarely apart from either of these conditions. As regards the origin of the cyst, it is usually a simple reten- tion cyst formed by dilatation of one of the lacteal sinuses behind some obstruction in the mammillary portion of the duct, the result generally of injury inflicted by the child during lactation; less frequently it results from ex- travasation of milk following rupture of a main duct from injury or disease. The cyst appears suddenly, generally enlarges rapidly, and is almost invariably single and situated under the areola. Smooth and round or slightly oval in outline, and freely movable, it varies in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange or even larger; it diminishes in size after lactation and increases again at subsequent pregnancies. Its consistence varies according to the nature of its contents: thus it may be elastic and fluctuating, or doughy and capable of retaining the impression of the finger, or firm and solid; in the latter case the cyst may easily be mistaken for a fibro-adenoma or even for a scirrhus. The skin over the cyst is freely movable ; there is no retraction of the nipple, no glandular enlargement, and, as a rule, no pain, the condition being unassociated with any inflammatory reaction. Millt can generally be made to exude from the nipple on pressure over the tumour, but this sign has no diagnostic value unless it be associated with the resting state of the gland, when it becomes exceedingly important, if not indeed pathognomonic. Treatment.—A galactocele should not be interfered with during pregnancy or lactation if the tumour be small; hwt if it be large, or if it be increasing rapidly in size, the child must be removed from the breast, and steps taken to bring about cessation of the secretion of milk. When the secretion has ceased, an incision, radiating from the nipple, may be made into the tumour, the contents evacuated, and the cavity plugged with gauze so as to bring about complete obliteration by granula- tion. A better treatment, however, is to excise the cyst and then to approximate the deeper parts of the cavity by two or three deep sutures, the skin edges being approximated by horse- hair sutures. The multiple cysts so often associated with chronic lobular mastitis have already been freely dealt with under that affection. Multiple cysts are also frequently met with after the menopause, as a result of the atrophic changes which occur normally at that period in connection with the acini and small ducts; they are known, therefore, as invohition cysts. They are most numerous at the periphery of the gland, especially towards its posterior surface ; they A'ary in size from a mustard seed to a pea; they contain a clear serous, or a variously coloured mucoid, fluid ; they give rise to no subjective symptoms, and they are generally discovered accidentally in breasts which have been removed for some other affection, especially for carcinoma. The so-called serous or lymphatic cyst was formerly believed, in consequence of the absence of an epithelial lining, to be due to cystic dilatation of a lymph space. But we now know that the larger cysts of parenchymatous origin lose all trace of their epithelial lining. More- over, an endothelial lining has not been demonstrated in connection with these so-called lymphatic cysts; it is highly probable, there- fore, that they are either large involution cysts, or glandular retention cysts which have de- veloped in connection with a localised chronic mastitis. Any of the cysts above referred to may enlarge to form a rounded tumour which variesMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 187 in size from a cherry or less to an orange. The smooth outline of the cyst is often masked by inflammatory induration or condensation of the adjacent breast tissue, and, in consequence of the tension of the contents, fluctuation is often absent, the tumour feeling either firm and elastic, or even quite solid. Hence it is that the cyst is frequently mistaken either for a fibro-adenoma or for a scirrhus. It difi'ers from the former in that it moves along with, and not independently of, the breast, while from the latter it is distinguished by its less dense consistence, by the readiness with which the skin over it may be pinched up, and by the absence of glandular infection. In cases of doubt a diagnostic puncture with a grooved needle or exploring syringe will settle the question. Treatment. — The cyst may be opened, swabbed out with undiluted carbolic acid or tincture of iodine, and then stuffed with gauze. A more satisfactory, and at the same time a more rapid cure will, as a rule, be brought about by excision of the cyst followed by closure of the wound, in the manner already described under the treatment of multiple cystic disease. If the cyst be deep-seated and situated in the lower hemisphere, it may be excised by the retromammary route recommended by Gaillard Thomas. Tapping with a hydrocele trocar and cannula, followed by the injection of iodine or of a few drops of undiluted carbolic acid, is the only alternative treatment should the patient object to the use of the knife; and this is perhaps the best treatment when, to relieve the patient's anxiety, the surgeon is called upon to deal with one or more cysts which are compara- tively small and superficial. Hydatid cyst of the mamma is extremely rare. Cases have been reported by Astley Cooper, Bergmann, Delbet, and others. They have been met with between the ages of twenty and fifty. It is doubtful if they ever occur in the male breast. The cyst is usually unilocular, but one or two daughter cysts may be present. The tumour, which is at first small and pain- less, is generally discovered accidentally; it is rounded, smooth, freely movable, well defined, and of a firm elastic consistence. Fluctuation is rare, except when suppuration has occurred. The cyst enlarges very slowly and seldom attains a larger size than that of an orange; pregnancy does not necessarily increase the rate of growth. When left to itself the cyst usually suppurates, and it is then difficult to distinguish it from an ordinary abscess. Before suppuration the condition is almost certain to be mistaken either for a simple tumour or for an ordinary cyst. The best treatment is com- plete excision, cutting wide of the capsule. Neoplasms of the Mamma The most common of the simple tumours of the breast are the encapsulated growths, which are made up of tubular and acinous-like or irregular spaces, lined generally by a single layer of epithelium, and supported by a con- nective-tissue stroma in which the blood-vessels ramify. The relative proportion of the glandular and connective-tissue element varies greatly, and the stroma, which is almost invariably devoid of fat cells, may be fibrous and scanty or abundant and cellular. The epithelial tubes or spaces vary considerably in their arrange- ment ; they may be dilated into cysts into which a papilliform ingrowth may project. By some authors, among whom may be mentioned Gross, Labbe, and Coyne and Ziegler, the epithelial structures are looked upon as acci- dental ; these authors regard the connective tissue as the essential element of the tumours, which are described as jjericanalicular and infra- canalicular fibromata, according as the fibrous tissue develops around the epithelial spaces, or projects into them. Delbet, Schimmelbusch, and others regard the epithelial elements as the essential parts of the tumour ; they attribute the intracanalicular and intracystic ingrowths to a centrifugal outgrowth of the gland tubes, the result of proliferation of the epithelial lining. The writer, who looks upon both elements as of equal importance, agrees with Raymond Johnson in regarding all the different varieties of fibro-glandular growths as belong- ing essentially to the same type of tumour, to which the general name of fibro-adenoma is most appropriate. Much confusion has arisen from the circum- stance that growths which are essentially the same have been described under widely diffei'ent names by different writers. When the epi- thelial elements are scanty and embedded in a firm fibrous stroma, the tumour is spoken of as a hard fibro-adenoma; when, on the other hand, the fibrous stroma is abundant, soft, and relatively cellular, we have to do with a soft fibro-adenoma, and between these two varieties many intermediate forms are met with. Great variation occurs in the arrangement of the glandular elements, which may present the form of branching duct-like tubes, or of lobular collections of acinous-like spaces. The epithelial lining is generally in the form of a single or double layer of cubical or low columnar cells, placed on a more or less distinct basement membrane. Not infrequently the tubes are compressed and their lumen obliterated, so that they appear in the form of irregularly- branched thin columns of small, atrophied- looking, epithelial cells. In the soft and more rapidly grooving fibro- adenomata a mucoid fluid is generally secreted by the epithelial cells, and this may be sufficiently abundant to dilate the epithelial spaces into cysts, the tumour being then spoken of as a cysto-adenoma. Very frequently the cysts are more or less filled with branchingMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 188 papilliform or foliaceous ingrowths, which are covered with an epithelium continuous with that of the cyst wall (prolife7-ous cysto-adenoma). These soft, rapidly-growing fibro - adenomata, whether simple, cystic, or proliferous, have been regarded by many writers as sarcojnata, and have been described under such terms as adeno- sa7'coma, cysto-sarcoma, and adeno-cysto-sarcoma ; but Schimmelbusch, Marcus Beck, and Raymond Johnson have pointed out that neither micro- scopically nor clinically have these tumours any right to be regarded as true sarcomata. Just as there is no evidence that the stroma ever develops into a true sarcoma, so also there is no proof that the epithelial elements ever become carcinomatous. The term malignant adeiioma, which has been applied by Halstead as an alter- native name for the type of tumour described by him as adeno-carcinoma, is, therefore, an unfortunate and misleading one. The fibro-adenomata never invade the capsule and infiltrate the surrounding tissues ; they never become adherent to the skin or pectoral muscle; and they never cause retraction of the nipple. The axillary glands, although they are occasionally enlarged from irritative connective- tissue hyperplasia, are never malignant, and secondary growths never occur in distant parts. In the instances of so-called recurrence, the tumour which develops after operation is either a second tumour which has developed de novo, or is the result of the continued growth of a tumour which was too small to be detected at the operation. Like all simple tumours, fibro- adenomata are occasionally multiple, but are seldom at the same stage of development when detected. As a group, the fibro-adenomata are met with most frequently between the ages of twenty and forty, the average age being twenty-nine ac- cording to Gross, and thirty according to Williams; they are very rarely met with before puberty or in old people. The least complicated forms are generally met with before the age of twenty-five, while the cystic and proliferous varieties occur generally during the fourth and fifth decades. Their growth is usually slow, so that after several years the tumour is seldom larger than a hen's egg. Not infrequently, however, the tumour suddenly takes on a more rapid growth, and this applies more especially to the cystic forms with intracystic growths. Pain is usually absent: in some cases, however, especially in the small, hard fibro-adenomata, the patient complains of severe lancinating and radiating pains, which are intensified by manipu- lation and by the friction of the clothing. The writer has several times observed Pacinian cor- puscles in the breast tissue, and it is possible that the neuralgic-like pain, which is associated with these so-called irritable tumours, is the result of pressure on these bodies. The hard fibro-aderionm is generally a small, firm, smooth or slightly-nodular, distinctly en- capsulated, and therefore well-defined tumour, which can be moved about within, and inde- pendently of, the breast tissue. The mobility of the tumour, apart from the breast, at once serves to distinguish it from a scirrhus, from a localised inflammatory induration, or from a cyst. It may occupy any part of the breast, but is more frequently superficial and peripheral than embedded in the centre of the organ. On section, the cut surface becomes convex and has a dull-white or faintly-pink colour. The gland spaces here and there may be dilated into small cysts, or they may take the form of irregular and slightly-branched clefts. In all probability, the majority of fibro-adenomata develop from epithelial buds, which have become accidentally dissociated from the rest of the gland during the centrifugal budding process by which the organ is developed (Fig. 12). Fig. 12.—Slice through half a flbro-adenoma (natural size) re- moved from a woman, Eet. 35. The tumour, treated with nitric acid, shows how the glandular elements are grouped around the ducts which radiate from the centre of the tumour toward its capsule. These ducts do not open upon the sur- face of the tumour, and therefore have uo connection with the ducts of the breast. The arrangement here shown seems to prove that the tumour is the result of the independent growth of epithelial elements, which became dissociated from the rest of the gland during the centrifugal budding process by which the organ is developed. The soft fibro-adenomata are generally large, and they are more elastic than the hard variety. The cysto-adenomata are characterised by their lobulated outline, and by their still more rapid and often fitful increase due to the enlargement of the cysts. Their consistence varies at different parts, and fluctuation can generally be elicited over the smooth rounded surface prominences. When the cysts reach close to the surface the skin over them may have a bluish tinge. The j^roliferous cysto-adenomata may grow to an enormous size. Most museums contain specimens as large as a child's, or even as an adult's, head. In such cases the breast tissue is pushed aside and generally atrophied beyond recognition. The skin over the tumour becomes stretched and marbled with dilated veins; ulti-MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF mately it gives way or sloughs, and from the sharply-cut opening an intracystic growth soon protrudes. In spite, however, of the large size and fungating appearance of the tumour, it retains its non-malignant character. On section, the tumour presents a characteristic cabbage or cauliflower like appearance, due to the manner in which the cysts are closely packed with foliaceous or papilliform ingrowths. The stroma is either fibro-cellular or more or less myxo- matous, in which case areas of hsemorrhagic and mucoid softening are often present. Clinically, these tumours are distinguished from the true sarcomata by their long history, by the absence of infiltration, by the presence of true cysts, and by freedom from recurrence, when freely removed. Under the name "pure adenoma," a tumour has been described which consists almost entirely of gland tissue and in structure and arrange- ment closely resembles the normal breast. These tumours are not so rare as is usually supposed; they are of no special importance, however, since they cannot be distinguished clinically from the ordinary fibro-adenomata. Pnre fibroma is, perhaps, the rarest of all the tumours of the mamma. Williams found only 1 example out of 2397 reported cases of mam- mary neoplasms. Apparently the tumour is more frequently situated in the pre- and retro- mammary tissue, than in the breast itself. Like the pure adenoma, it cannot be distinguished clinically. Lastly, in regard to fibro-glandular tumours, it should be mentioned that examples are very occasionally met with in which the growth is divided up into lobules separated by an inter- lobular stroma containing adipose tissue. In a case of this kind removed by Dr. P. H. Watson, the gland tubes were filled with a creamy fluid and were here and there dilated into small cysts. The tumour, which was the size of a large lemon, was distinctly encapsulated and readily shelled out. Treatment. — Fibro-adenomata should always be excised, as there is no evidence to show that they ever disappear spontaneously. As already mentioned, after remaining stationary for some years they may suddenly take on a more active growth, this being more liable to occiir during pregnancy ; their removal, therefore, should be strongly recommended before marriage. In the majority of cases it is sufficient merely to shell out the tumour. The skin being put on the stretch, and the tumour at the same time fixed and projected forward between the finger and thumb, an incision (which should radiate from the nipple) is carried through the capsule well down on to the tumour, which is then grasped with vulsella forceps and pulled forward with the left hand, while the forefinger of the right hand is swept round between the tumour and its capsule. At one part, namely, where the vessels enter, the tumour is generally found to be more closely connected with the breast; this attachment may be left till the last and clamped before it is divided. All bleeding should be carefully arrested before the wound is closed, and if the latter be of any depth, buried catgut siitures should be employed, or deep silkworm- gut sutures, which include the skin, should be passed well into the substance of the breast, superficial horse-hair sutures being used to bring about accurate apposition of the skin edges. If interrupted sutures are used, drainage is seldom necessary. When the tumour occupies the lower hemi- sphere, the cicatrix may be hidden from view by adopting the plan, as recommended by Gail- lard Thomas, of making the incision along the thoracico - mammary fold, and reaching the tumour by incising the posterior surface of the corpus mammte. When the tumour is so large that the breast tissue is pushed aside and atrophied, it should be removed along with the growth. In none of the varieties of fibro-adenomata is it necessary to remove the axillary glands. Duct Paj^illoma.—Duct papillomata are essen- tially pedunculated epithelial adeno-papillo- matous growths which spring from the walls of the larger ducts. To the naked eye, the tumour has a very characteristic reddish-purple and finely papillated or villous appearance. Under the microscojje, the branching and union of the delicate processes give the tumour a lobular or adenomatous appearance, the spaces being lined by one or more rows of cubical or low columnar cells. The supporting connective tissue is scanty and contains numerous thin- walled blood-vessels. Haemorrhages into the tumour are, therefore, of common occurrence, and occasionally give it a false " melanotic" appearance. The fluid which escapes from the nipple is secreted by the epithelium of the tumour. When there is any obstruction to the escape of the secretion the growth may enlarge rapidly and become cystic. In some instances the tumour grows more rapidly and, by invading the wall of the duct, involves the adjacent breast tissue and may even fungate through the skin. These tumours may be single or multiple, growing, in the former case, generally fi-om the wall of a lacteal sinus, while in the latter they may be confined to the ducts of one lobe, or they may be scattered throughout the breast. They occur most commonly in multipara who have nursed their children, and sometimes there is a history of unduly prolonged suckling; occasionally there is a history of a blow, or of the infant having severely bitten the nipple. Duct papillomata have been met with between the ages of twenty-three and sixty-seven, the majority occurring between the ages of thirty- five and sixty.190 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Growth is slow, so that, when single, the tumour is seldom larger than a walnut. When first noticed it is usually about the size of a pea. When several are situated close together, there results a firm and elastic, lobulated, or nodular tumour of considerable size. In very rare instances the tumour projects at the nipple. The skin over the tumour is not adherent, the axillary glands do not become affected, and metastatic growths never occur. A very im- portant diagnostic symptom, and one which serves to distinguish these growths from the cysto-adenomata, is the presence of a clear or more or less deeply blood-stained discharge from the nipple. The discharge is generally noticed for some months before the tumour is discovered. Occasionally, however, the tumour is observed before the discharge. Treatme7i,t.—When the tumour is single and situated in one of the lacteal sinuses it is re- moved through an incision radiating from the base of the nipple, the wall of the sinus being dissected out along with the papilloma; care should be taken not to injure the adjacent sinuses. When several papillomata are situated close together, they should be removed along with the adjacent breast tissue. In cases in which there are several tumours scattered here and there throughout the breast, the whole organ should be excised. The " local recurrences" which have been reported as following operation are to be explained by a small growth having escaped removal at the time of operation, or by the development de novo of another timiour. With regard to the prognosis, therefore, it may be said that "local recurrence," while it occasionally follows excision of the tumour or resection of a portion of the breast, never occurs after removal of the whole organ. Mr. Bowlby, to whom we are indebted for the first satisfactory account of the pathology and clinical characters of this group of tumours, describes them under the title villous carcinoma. He admits, however, that even in the instances in which the tumours have invaded the walls of the ducts, secondary growths never occur, either in the glands or distant organs. Fatty Tumours.—According to Williams, only three cases of intra-mammaiy lipomata have been described. Lipomata are generally situ- ated either in the paramammary fat (generally towards the axilla), or in the retromammary fat between the corpus mammse and the pectoral fascia. In the latter situation the breast, which is projected forwards by the tumour, becomes abnormally prominent, and if at the same time the corpus mammae be compact the organ feels firmer than normal. In a specimen examined by the writer in which the above state of affairs existed, the whole breast had been removed on the supposition that the con- dition was malignant. The lipoma, in this instance, could have been readily shelled out by the retromammary route advocated by Gaillard Thomas. The case illustrates forcibly the importance of making a diagnostic incision into all doubtful swellings of the breast. Lipomata of the breast, as well as diffuse ncevo-lipomata, are occasionally met with as congenital tumours in the breasts of children. Osteochondromata and angiomata of the breast occur so rarely that no further reference need be made to them. Sarcoma Under this heading are considered the true sarcomata, that is to say, tumours made up solely of sarcomatous tissue; any gland tissue which chances to be present consisting merely of the remains of the gland parenchyma which have been accidentally included in the growth. The tumour arises from a matrix of embryonic mesoblastic tissue of congenital or post-natal origin (Senn). Cysts, when they occur, are always the result of a degeneration of the tumour. The so-called adeno-sarcomata and cysto-sarco- mata have been described along with the fihro- adenomata, to which, histologically as well as clinically, they are much more closely related than to the true sarcomata. The glandular elements of these so-called sarcomata are of new formation and constitute an essential part of the tumour, and the cysts which so fre- quently develop are filled with fluid secreted by the lining epithelium of the spaces. True sa7Tomafa are comparatively rare, form- ing certainly less than 5 per cent of all mam- mary neoplasms. They are met with at any time between puberty and advanced age ; the majority occur before the fortieth year. They occur in the married and single with equal frequency. Nothing is known regarding their causation, but direct traumatisms appear to play a more important part than in the case of the carcinomata. The spindle-celled forms are said to be the most frequent; but if we exclude the so-called adeno-sarcomata and cysto-sarcomata, the round- celled sarcoma is as frequently met with as the spindle-celled variety. Mixed and giant-celled forms occur more rarely, and one or two cases of alveolar sarcomata have been recorded. Melanotic sarcomata (epitheliomata'?) are prob- ably always secondary to a primary growth in the nipple. Myxomatous tissue is rarely, if ever, met with in a pure sarcoma of the breast, while it is not infrequently met wath in the large proliferous cysto-adenomata. The true sarcomata generally possess a,pseudo- cap>sule, which, however, differs from the true capsule of a fibro-adenoma, as it is inseparably connected both with the tiimour and with the surrounding tissues, so that the tumour is191 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF never movable within the substance of the breast, nor can it be shelled out in the same way as a fibro-adenoma. Moreover, the capsule is generally incomplete, and, microscopically, it is seen to be invaded by the tumour cells ; it is therefore to be regarded as a part of the tumour, and the mere enucleation of the latter is certain to be followed by recurrence. Local dissemination takes place mainly along the connective-tissue sheaths of the blood-vessels, while general disseminntion is the result of the tumour cells gaining access to the lumen of the embryonic blood-vessels of the tumour. The lung, liver, and brain are the most frequent seats of metastatic growths. Clinically, the sarcomata present themselves usually as well- c i r c u m scribed rounded tumours, without adhesion to the skin or re- traction of the nipple. The rate of growth varies considerably ac- cording to the histological struc- ture of the tumour. Excluding the melanotic variety, the small round- celled sarcomata and the lympho- sarcomata are the most malignant, and sooner or later infect the axillary glands. In a few months the breast is converted into a prominent hemispherical tumour of large size; the skin is stretched and may have a dusky-red colour ; the cutaneous veins are generally dilated. There is often a general as well as a local elevation of temperature. Ultimately the skin gives way, leading to the protrusion of a very vascular fungating mass. Death results from exhaustion generally within a year. On section the tumour presents a homogeneous appearance, which in colour and consistency so closely resembles the grey matter of the brain that the terms medullary or encephaloid were applied to these tumours by older writers. If the tumour be large, the centre is generally converted into a degeneration cyst the result of hfemorrhage and mucoid softening, the contents of the cyst consisting of an amber or more or less chocolate-coloured, viscid fluid. The spindle-celled forms are firmer and of slower growth. On section they are pinkish white and somewhat fasciculated and fibrous- looking, due to the fact that the cells are arranged in bundles parallel to the blood- vessels. They never present the cleft-like spaces or foliaceous appearance characteristic of the fibro-adenomata. While they display a marked tendency to recur locally they do not appear to infect the axillary glands, and they seldom give rise to general metastasis. According to Gross, the myeloid sarcomata of the breast never give rise either to glandular or to general infection. Diagnosis.—The small round-celled sarcomata are to be distinguished from the acute infiltrat- ing carcinomata by their softer consistence, by fIG. 13.—Vertical slice through a large small-round-celled sarcoma of the mamma, removed by Prof. Chiene from a woman, set. 50. The central part of the tumour is converted into a large degeneration cyst, the result of mucoid softening; the peripheral portion presents the typical encephaloid appearance of such tumour. The axillary glands were also sarcomatous and presented a similar appearance. the absence of the brawny induration and characteristic infiltration of the skin, and by the comparatively late infection of the axilla. Occasionally a diagnostic incision is necessary before a rapidly-growing sarcoma can be dis- tinguished from a general mastitis or a thick- walled abscess. The less malignant forms are distinguished from the fibro-glandular tumours by their lack of mobility and by the absence of cysts. Treatment.—-The treatment of true sarcomata of the breast is practically the same as that for carcinoma. The axilla should be opened. The numerous operations which are recorded as having been performed on the same patient for recurrent sarcoma of the breast would not have been necessary if the first operation had been sufficiently radical. Moi-eover, it must be re-192 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF membered that there is always a danger that the local recurrences may be attended sooner or later with internal metastasis, especially in the lung. Carcinomata The frequency with which carcinoma is met with in the breast is of itself sufficient to give it an importance difficult to over-estimate. The great improvement in the results of surgical treatment, which a better knowledge of the pathology and mode of dissemination of the disease has brought about, has served to add further interest to the disease. Taking the combined statistics of Billroth, Schmidt, Bryant, Gross, and v. Angerer, we find that the carcinomata amount to 83 per cent of all breast tumours. From the statistics furnished by the Middlesex Hospital Reports, considerably more than half of all breast affec- tions are carcinomatous. The disease is over- whelmingly more common in females than in males. It is safe to say that not more than 2 per cent of breast cancers occur in the male. Many authorities, prominent amongst whom may be mentioned Williams in this country and Park in America, maintain that the disease is decidedly on the increase. Others maintain that the increase of cancer is more apparent than real, and, according to Newsholme, is to be attributed " to improved diagnosis and more careful certification of the causes of death, especially to the latter." This question, how- ever, along with the influences, if any, which determine a geographical distribution of cancer, and the question of "cancer houses," are matters which fall to be considered in dealing with cancer in general. The careful investigations of D'Arcy Power have led him to the conclusion that the cause of cancer will not be found in any given room or house or water-supply. Speaking generally, we may say that the disease most frequently appears between the ages of forty and sixty, the greater number occurring during the latter half of the fifth decade. Cancer of the breast is very rare before the age of thirty, and it seldom starts after seventy. A few cases have been recorded in which the disease began between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years. The cases mentioned by older authors as occurring under the age of twenty were in all probability sarcomata. Out of 451 cases collected by Gross, in which the catamenia are referred to, 62 per cent were stated as regularly menstruating when the disease appeared. Most surgeons, however, are agreed that the menstrual function is of no etiological significance. According to Gross, of 1545 women suffering from cancer of the breast, in whom the social condition is noted, 85"5 per cent were or had been mai-ried, and 14"5 per cent were single; of the married, 12 per cent were barren. Bryant and Sheild respectively give the proportion of the married as 80 and 82 per cent. With regard to nursing. Gross found that out of 416 cases in whom this is referred to, 76 per cent had suckled their infants, while 24 per cent had not. The effect of antecedent puerperal mastitis is regarded by some as an etiological factor of some importance. Gross, after a critical ex- amination of his statistics relative to this matter, does not attribute much importance to it. In only 49 cases out of 907 (5-4 per cent) could it be determined that the carcinoma "developed out of lumps or circumscribed indurations left by the inilammation." The average interval between the mastitis and the appearance of the cancer was as much as fourteen years. Most surgeons, however, have seen cancers which have developed beneath the scar resulting from a breast abscess. V. Angerer, after investigating more recent statistics regarding the influence of the social state, sums up as follows :—" Mammte that have attained their full functional development show a greater tendency to the development of carcinoma, i.e. parous women suffer more from carcinoma of the mamma than barren women. The influence of suckling is more marked than that of matrimony and conception, and it is quite certain that only a small proportion of those who later suffer from cancer of the breast have not suckled." Bryant and Winiwarter both refer to the relative frequency of mammary cancer in women who have suckled large families. Of the influence of chronic irritation and chronic inflammatory induration it is still more difficult to speak definitely. Certain it is that the proportion of women who suffer from such conditions is very great compared with those who ultimately suffer from cancer. As Mr. Sheild puts it, " chronic irritation of an unex posed glandular surface is very different from chronic irritation of a free surface; the former does not lead to cancer in other organs—for example, in the epididymis—and there is no reason to suppose that it has any special tendency to do so in the breast." The connection between contusions of the breast and carcinoma is not by any means established. Most women are able to call to mind having received some sort of injury to the breast, and the majority are only too ready to attribute the disease to that injury. Out of 1511 cases collected by Gross, in only 3-6 per cent was there " conclusive evidence that the tumour developed out of indurations and other conditions following the injury." Sheild, from the record of the St. George's Hospital cases, puts the percentage down as 6'2 out of 400 cases. The statistics of Snow, Ldwenthal, and Ziegler yield a percentage of 11-5, 13-4, and 22 respect- ively, the last being certainly higher than most surgeons would admit.MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 193 Space forbids my entering into any detail with regard to the vexed question of the heredi- tary proclivity to cancer. Those who wish to know what may be said in favour of it should consult Williams' Diseases of the Breast, p. 260, where he very ably discusses the deductions to be drawn from the history of cancer in thirty- three families (24-2 per cent) out of 136 con- secutive cases of cancer of the female breast. He gives some striking instances (amongst which is the very remarkable case recorded by Broca) of multiple family cancer occurring in successive generations; these, he says, prove conclusively the hereditability of cancer. He points out that the disease repeats itself more especially along the female line, a fact which had already been referred to by Bryant. Gross concludes that " the evidence of the inheritance of cancer is far from being satis- factory," but that there can be no doubt about " the inheritance of a peculiarity of the structure of the breast, especially of its epithelial elements, which predisposes it to the occurrence of cancer." Out of 1164 cases he finds a family history of cancer in 8'5 per cent. Bryant, who found a family history of cancer in 12 per cent of 600 cases, takes up much the same position as Gross. Paget puts the percentage as high as 33, while Winiwarter places it as low as 6 per cent. The practical result to be drawn from a study of heredity in cancer of the breast is that, in a doubtful tumour, a strong family history of cancer is in favour of its malignant character, whereas the absence of such a history is no argument whatever to the contrary. It is not within the province of this article to discuss the vexed question as to the part, if any, played by parasites in the etiology of cancer. In spite of the great attention which has been given to " cancer bodies " during the past ten years their exact nature remains as much a matter of dispute as ever. To Rilffer and his co-workers. Walker and Plimmer, belongs the credit of having singled out the most characteristic and parasite-looking of the many peculiar cellular units which modern improvements in microscopic technique have enabled us to demonstrate in cancers. These peculiar cellular bodies were regarded by Riiffer, MetchnikoiF, and others as parasitic protozoa. In Italy recently, these bodies have been subjected to renewed investigation at the hands of Sanfelici, Maifucci and Sirleo, Roncali, Binaghi, and others, all of whom claim that they are vegetable parasites belonging to the blastoniycetes (yeasts). Those who believe in the parasitic nature of the " cancer bodies" maintain that there is a gap between the morphological appearances of the degenerated or otherwise altered cancer cells and the so- called parasites, and that this gap cannot be bridged by transitional forms. The writer believes that by examining the VOL. VI " cancer bodies " by the film method instead of by making sections of the tumour, he has been able gradually to narrow down the gap so as ultimately to fill it in with transitional stages in the degeneration of a cancer cell, which follow one another so closely as to afford a satisfactory demonstration of the complete evolution of a Riiffer's " cancer body" or so- called blastomycete. It is more particularly to degenerative changes in the nuclevis that the typical " cancer bodies" of Rilffer owe their evolution. The exact nature and morphology of the " cancer body" vary according to the source of the carcinoma, or, better stated, according to the function of the normal epithelium from which the tumour has taken origin. It is highly probable that the material which accumulates in or around the degenerating nucleus and distends it into a vesicle, and which forms the body or main substance of the so-called parasite, is to be regarded as an abnormal product or aberrant secretion elaborated as the result of an attempt on the part of the cancer cell to perform a function normal to that of the type of epithelial cell from which it originated. Carcinoma of the mamma, like cancer else- where, is of epithelial origin. The tumour, whatever be its naked-eye appearances, is made up of atypical epithelial cells which occupy, invade, and multiply in a moi'e or less vascular connective-tissue framework consisting of the original stroma of the breast, which is somewhat modified and generally added to by secondary changes of an inflammatory, and often partly degenerative, character, set up by the irritation of the proliferating cancer cells. The so-called alveolar spaces of the stroma are to be regarded, therefore, as neither more nor less than the lymph spaces and interstices of the tissue. The microscopic appearances presented by the growth may be very different, not only in different tumours, but also in different parts of the same tumour; they depend mainly upon the relative proportion of the epithelial and connective-tissue elements and upon the size and shape of the alveolar spaces, or, in other words, upon the size and form of the clusters of malignant cells which they contain. Speaking roughly, fully 90 per cent of cancers of the breast originate from the epithelium of the acini. The tumour presents itself in a variety of forms to which clinicians have given special names, such as scirrhus cancer, atrophic cancer, medidlary or encephaloid cancer, acute or inflammatory cancer, lenticular cancer, and cancer en cuirasse. We shall see, however, that these various conditions are due to variations in the rate of growth and mode of extension of one and the same disease. Clinically, a convenient primary subdivision of acinous carcinomata is into (1) the circumscribed, and (2) the diffuse forms. The circumscribedMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 194 forms may be further subdivided into {a) the typical or nodular scir7-hus, (b) the slow-growing or atrophic scu'rhus, and (c) the rapidly growing or acute cancer. In like manner the diffuse forms may be subdivided into (a) diffuse scir- rhus, (6) the diffuse atrophic cancer, and (c) the diffuse inflammatory cancer. The diffuse form may arise as an extensive cancerous degeneration of the parenchyma, but it may also result from a rapid and diffuse lymphatic dissemination from a primary nodule. Hence a carcinoma which at an early stage appears as a circum- scribed tumour may in its later stages present itself as a diffuse growth. Of these varieties by far the commonest is the nodular scirrhus, and we will therefore take it to illustrate the main points in the morbid anatomy, symptom- atology, and progress of cancer of the breast. If a breast containing a typical nodidar scirrhus be sliced through the tumour, the latter cuts with a creaking sensation, and the cut surface generally becomes slightly concave owing to the cicatrisation of the central and older part of the tumour, this part having a white and somewhat streaky appearance, mottled with yellow points due to fatty degeneration. The peripheral and growing part of the tumour has a bluish - grey, or greyish - pink, faintly translucent appearance, and is either homogeneous or slightly mottled with minute haemorrhagic points. The edge of the growth, although it may appear to be sharply defined, is in reality everywhere invad- ing the surrounding tissue, so that islands of fat or traces of parenchyma are often embedded in the peripheral portion of the tumour. The tumour is never encapsulated. Microscopically, the central portion is mainly fibrous, the epithelial clusters being small, with their cells compressed and more or less degener- ated, the whole appearance resembling that seen in an atrophic scirrhtis. At the growing edge, on the other hand, the cell clusters are large and abundant, the stroma being scanty, so that the appearance resembles that seen in the more rapidly growing or encephaloid cancer. The malignant epithelial cells, which are the essential elements of the tumour, insinuate themselves into the lymph spaces of the adjacent tissues and dilate them to form the so-called alveolar spaces of the cancer. In the meshes of the stroma, more especially at the invading edge of the tumour, are numerous leucocytes. The tumour tissue may be distinguished from the adjacent gland parenchyma not only by its atypical or non-glandular arrangement, but also by a marked difference in the morphological characters of the cells in the two cases. The cells of the tumour, especially their nuclei, are much larger and show signs of greater repro- ductive activity (as evidenced by the frequent mitotic figures) than the cells of the gland parenchyma. These structural differences are comparable with, and no doubt correlated to, the functional differences, and are sufficiently marked to justify us in applying the specific term "cancer cells" to epithelial cells which have become so profoiindly modified. What it is that brings about this very remarkable modification both of structure and of fimction on the part of the epithelial cells has not yet been demonstrated; but to settle this would be to solve the vexed question of the causation of cancer. The lobules of the parenchyma are invaded and destroyed by the onward growth of the proliferating cancer cells. The interacinous connective tissue proliferates and becomes in- filtrated with leucocytes. The acinous epi- thelium is destroyed, and there is no evidence whatever to show that it is stimulated to pro- liferate and to undergo a cancerous transforma- tion by any spermatic, fertilising, or infective power exerted through the agency of the adjacent and pre-existing cancer cells. The microscopic appearances, therefore, point strongly to the view that the cancer is local in its origin, that the spread is mainly along the lymphatics, and that the adjacent gland parenchyma, although it frequently gives evi- dence of proliferative changes in its epithelium, is not, as maintained by Heidenhain and others, precancerous in the sense that " it is sooner or later destined to develop into typical cancer." The tumour may be situated in any part of the breast—either immediately beneath or close to the nipple, or at the circumference of the gland. The statement of Williams to the effect that 9'8 per cent originate in super- numerary mammary structures quite outside the normal mamma, can no longer be accepted in the light of our present knowledge of the anatomical limits of the mamma. The upper and outer quadrant is the commonest site of the tumour; out of 820 successive cases Gross found 46'2 per cent in this situation. Accord- ing to the same author's statistics the left breast was rather more frequently affected than the right. It is exceedingly rare to meet with two cancers in the same breast; when this does occur the two tumours are almost invariably connected by a strand of cancerous tissue, which makes their independent origin a matter of doubt. When both breasts are affected, a condition almost as rare, the cancer is com- monly of the diffuse type, and the disease is generally conveyed to the second breast by the subcutaneous and retromammary lymphatics, both of which anastomose across the mesial plane. In the majority of instances the tumour is discovered quite accidentally, or the patient's attention may be attracted to the breast by a swelling, by drawing in of the nipple, or byMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 195 a dimpling of the skin. Contrary to the pre- vailing idea of the laity, pain, unfortunately, is generally conspicuous by its absence: the word " unfortunately" is here used advisedly, because not only does the absence of pain militate against the early discovei'y of the disease, but it also deceives the patient into the belief that "the lump" when discovered is not a cancer, and that advice need not be sought regarding it. In some cases there is pain of a dull, aching character; in other cases the pain is sharp and stinging or it may be severe and lancinating, and shooting towards the neck, the shoulder, or down the inner side of the upper arm. As the disease advances pain may become a distressing symptom, and, by interfering with sleep, give to the patient a worn and haggard look quite different from the later cachexia. In examining the breast the patient should be stripped to the waist so as to allow of a thorough examination of both breasts and axillae. It is preferable to have the patient lying, or, if this is not convenient, sitting with the trunk resting against the back of the chair, so that the body may have support while the breast is being pressed against the ribs. To examine the axilla the arm should not be too much abducted, otherwise the axillary fascia, being tense, will prevent the fingers reaching well up towards the apex. It is well to make the examination from behind as well as from the front. Inspection will at once detect any differ- ence in the size of the breasts, any local swelling, retraction of nipple, or dimpling of skin. (The writer has been impressed by the great fre- quency with which small punctiform, bright red capillary nsevi are to be seen here and there upon the skin of the trunk in patients suffering from breast or other cancers, but whether they have any association with the disease he is unable to say.) In investigating the organ more information will be gained by palpation with the fingers placed flat over the various parts of its surface than by pinching it up between the fingers and thumb. The tumour which is not, as a rule, tender to pressure, generally presents itself as a somewhat chestnut-shaped, rarely spherical, swelling of a dense, imyielding, wooden, or even stony consistence. It is not encapsulated, and therefore moves along with (instead of within) the breast in the substance of which it is em- bedded. Although non-encapsulated the tumour is generally circumscribed, so that, by virtue of its density, its outline, which is more or less nodular, can usually be fairly well defined; in this respect it is intermediate between a fibro- adenoma and an area of chronic inflammatory induration. The density and wooden consist- ence of the growth are best appreciated by pressing it firmly with the flat of the hand backwards against the wall of the chest. The skin is at first freely movable and readily pinched up, and the tumour, along with the breast, moves freely on the subjacent parts. The condition of the nipple depends almost entirely upon the situation of the tumour. When the latter is beneath or close to the nipple, retraction takes place at an early stage of the disease; when, however, the tumour is peripheral, the nipple has a normal appearance. Discharge of any kind from the nipple is seldom present in the acinous variety of cancer. The glands in the axilla are very frequently not to be felt before the stage of skin invasion. It must be remembered, however, that diseased glands are often very difficult to feel in obese subjects, and are often too small to be detected, even in spare women. Progress and Termination.—As the disease advances the skin becomes involved. The aver- age date of this involvement is, according to Gross, sixteen months after the tumour is first noticed. The small cell-infiltration and con- nective-tissue proliferation which precede the advance of the tumour spread into the ligaments of Cooper, and these becoming shortened and drawn towards the growth, cause the skin to become dimpled when an attempt is made to pinch it up from off the tumour. A little later the skin over the tumour becomes visibly dimpled or puckered. When the tumour is situated beneath or close to the nipple, similar changes, spreading along the adventitious coats of the ducts, cause the nipple to be either retracted or drawn over towards the tumour, or the nipple itself may become indurated from cancerous infiltration Direct invasion of the skin gives rise, in the first instance, to an indurated, thickened, and coarsely wrinkled or " pigskin" appearance, which has been very aptly described by French writers under the term '■'■peau d'orange." This appearance is so characteristic that it may be regarded as an almost pathognomonic sign of cancer of the breast. Next follows the stage of ulceration, which is often preceded by fissuring and excoriation, along with a desquamating and scaly condition of the epidermis. This occurs on an average four months after the first sign of skin invasion (Gross). The floor of the ulcer, formed by the breaking-down tumour tissue, presents an un- healthy, sloughing, and frequently excavated surface which discharges a thin ichorous or grumous fluid. The edges are densely indurated, everted, and often considerably elevated ; they are of a dusky or purplish hue, and covered by a thin epidermis through which a plexus of venules is seen. If the ulcer be neglected, and if it become invaded by putrefactive organisms, an extensive slough may form, which, after separating, leaves a deep cavity, the " crateri- form ulcer." Anything like severe hsemorrhage196 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF very rarely occurs, and even capillary oozing is rare compared with that which occurs in fungat- ing malignant tumours. The pain may be slight, although more usually it is severe and lancinating. While this superficial extension of the disease is proceeding, the deeper parts are also becom- ing invaded. The tumour, after reaching the posterior surface of the corpus mammae, becomes adherent to the retromammary areolar tissue and then to the pectoral fascia. It is important to note that when the tumour is deep-seated, the retromammary tissue, and, what is of even greater significance, the efferent lymphatic vessels which it contains, may become infected before there is any trace of skin invasion. It follows, therefore, that axillary infection may Fig. 14.—Vertiral Sfction tlirouyh an area of skin overlying a cancer of the breast, and presenting the " peati d'arawje " -Aiipenrance. lu the clironically oedematous and thickened cutis are microscopic foci of cancer distribnted, probably, in the lymphatics. occur at what may appear clinically to be a very early stage of the disease. Invasion of the pectoralis major next occurs, and is indicated by fixation of the breast. It aiust be remembered, however, that this con- dition may admit of considerable movement of the organ along with the muscle when the latter is relaxed; but when the muscle is put on the stretch by abduction of the arm, no movement takes place in a direction at right angles to the pectoral fibres. Invasion of the intercostal muscles and ribs is indicated by absolute fixation of the breast, which, according to Gross, occurs on an average six months after adhesion to the skin, and two months after ulceration. When the tumour is situated at or near the periphery of the lower and outer quadrant, that is to say, below and external to the pectoralis major, fixation to the chest occurs at a much earlier date than when the tumour overlies the pectoralis major. This symptom, viz., fixation to the chest wall, has a grave influence on the prognosis, as it is almost certain to be associated with cancerous infection of the intercostal and subpleural lymphatics, along which the disease is conveyed to the anterior mediastinum, to the lungs, and through the diaphragm to the liver. Sooner or later the cancer cells enter the venous system, either through the lymphatics, or, as has been so admirably demonstrated by Gold- man, by invasion of the walls of the veins in the neighbourhood of the tumour, or of its local disseminations. When once the lungs become involved the cancer cells reach the left side of the heart as a result of direct cancerous invasion of the walls of the pulmonary veins, rather than by traversing the pulmonary capillaries. From the left side of the heart general dis- semination occurs, and results in the formation of meta- static deposits in various parts of the body. The date at which metastatic deposits occur varies from a few months to several years, being dependent for the most part on the acuteness or rate of progress of the primary disease; fortunately, it seldom occurs imtil two years after the disease has first been noted, or until about a year after glandular infection. According to Gross, " in about one case in every seven metastasis occurs without implication of the glands; from which it appears that infection may take place through the blood-vessels, and that the absence of enlarged glands affords no guarantee that the viscera are not already in- vaded." As already pointed out, howevei', the pleura, the lungs, and the liver may be invaded by direct lymphatic extension, and Dr. Beatson has shown that the liver is more frequently affected when the right breast is involved. As to the frequency of metastatic deposits, Williams estimates that, in those cases which have been allowed to run a natural course un- influenced by operation, metastasis occurs in 73'5 per cent, leaving therefore 26-5 per cent in which death occurs from local or other general causes. By combining the statistics of Winiwarter, Hendry, Oldekop, and Sprengel, Gross finds that the average date of death from metastasis is 29 months after the first appear-MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 197 ance of the disease, or 14"7 months after glandu- lar affection. The same author, by combining the statistics obtained by various observers from 423 necropsies on persons who died of breast cancer, finds the order of frequency of the locality of the metastatic growths to be as follows:—Liver, 48"6 per cent; pleura, 42 per cent; lung, 41 per cent; bone, 20"5 per cent; brain, 9-4 per cent; ovary, 8 per cent; and opposite breast, 7'8 per cent. The order of frequency of the bones affected is—cranium, vertebrae, innominate, femur, humerus, ribs. Neither post-mortem nor clinical observation has confirmed Mr. Herbert Snow's statement as to the early stage and great frequency with which carcinomatous infection of the upper end of the humerus takes place. SjJontaneous frac- ture of a long bone in an elderly female may be the first symptom which leads to the detection of an unsuspected cancer in the breast. In the spine, the dorso-lumbar region is that which is usually involved; the chief symptoms are pain in the back, and girdle-pain, followed by ky- phosis and paraplegia. Not infrequently the osseous system is the seat of multiple metastases. Glandular Infection. — Sooner or later the glands in the axilla become involved. Cancer cells, derived from the primary tumour, are at any time liable to pass from the alveolar spaces into the lymph channels, along which they are conveyed by the lymph stream to the nearest lymphatic glands. The detached cell or cluster of cells is essentially a malignant embolus, which, after being grafted within a lymphatic gland, proliferates in the lymph sinuses, destroys the leucocytes, and converts the connective-tissue framework into the stroma of what is now a secondary growth having the same structure as the primary tumour. The local and often microscopic canceroxis disseminations, which by careful examination are frequently to be found in the breast substance and adjacent tissues, are almost invariably developed from similar emboli which have been arrested at some spot in the many lymphatic highways and channels leading from the primary tumour. It is impossible to say how long such emboli may exist before giving rise to visible nodules, and how many degenerate or become destroyed. Gross gives 17'7 months as the average duration of the interval between the detection of the primary tumour and perceptible infection of the axillary glands. It is obvious, however, that evidence of glandular infection may exist micro- scopically long before it manifests itself clini- cally ; indeed, we have no reason whatever to suppose that it is not already present at the time the primary tumour is first detected. It is seldom that one is able to detect a continuous invasion of a lymphatic vessel, even with the microscope. The cord-like strands which often may be felt passing from the breast towards the axilla are not, as usually stated. cancerous lymphatics, but simply the ducts or strands of atrophied parenchyma of what Spence used to call "the axillary tail" of the mamma. The pectoral group of glands is usually the first to be infected, and the remaining groups may be infected either independently or second- arily to these. The subclavicular glands are sometimes alone affected, more particularly when the tumour is situated towards the upper margin of the breast. The number of diseased glands to be found in the axilla varies very greatly ; usually there are not more than three or four, but as many as twenty, thirty, or even forty have been counted. They are generally scattered, but occasionally they are conglo- merated into a mass considerably larger than the primary tumour. In the latter case if the primary tumour be small, situated in the axillary tail and fused with the glands, the condition is liable to be mistaken for tubercle. In size the diseased glands may vary from a pin's head to a pigeon's egg, or even larger. In the glands, as in the primary tumour, the most important clinical sign of malignancy is their density. It should be noted that enlargement along with a certain amount of induration may be associated with the presence of inflammatory or simple neoplastic conditions of the breast. After the glands have been diseased for some time the afferent and efferent lymphatic vessels are not infrequently found to be diseased, but this can only be detected by careful microscopic examination. It follows, therefore, that in clearing out the axilla every endeavour should be made to remove all the fat and lymphatics as well as the glands. When the glandular enlargement becomes extensive, swelling of the arm sets in as the result of pressure on the axillary vein combined with lymphatic obstruction. At the same time there is generally severe pain from pressure upon the nerves. In advanced cases the limb becomes greatly swollen, the pain excruciating, and eventually gangrene of the fingers may set in. It is in such desperate conditions that amputation at the shoulder joint is sometimes welcomed by the patient. In the later stages of the disease there is often a well-marked cancerous cachexia. The patient, who is rapidly losing flesh, has a worn and anxious expression; the skin is of a peculiar pale yellow, and somewhat earthy, hue, suggestive of a combination of simple anaemia, waxy disease, and slight jaundice. There is increasing weakness and anorexia. These general symptoms were formerly re- garded as proof that the tumour was a local manifestation of a constitutional disease. It is well known that when the tumour is first noticed the patient generally looks and feels in perfect health, and some authorities assert that the cachectic symptoms are the result of ulceration followed by septic intoxication.198 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Certainly in some cases the cachexia is well marked before ulceration, and sometimes even before there is any evidence of dissemination. Mr. Cheyne very riglitly points out that the so-called cancerous cachexia should not be re- garded per se as a contraindication to operation, since it may entirely disappear as the result of operative interference. It is highly probable, therefore, that the system may become poisoned by an auto-intoxication, the toxines being pro- duced by the cancer cells or by the products of their degeneration and disintegration. In some cases the disease runs its course without any evidence of cachexia whatsoever. Death ensues from inanition and exhaustion brought about by the inevitable progress of the disease. The more imjjortant of the factors which bring about these conditions are pain, loss of sleep, anorexia, septic intoxication, and rarely hjemorrhage. Or death may be brought about by extension of the disease to the pleura and lungs, or by metastatic growths in various important and vital organs. The Slow-growing or Atrophic Scirrhus.—The circumscribed atrophic cancer is characterised by its small size and slow growth. It is more fibrous and still denser than the ordinary scirrhus, so that it cuts with a grating sensa- tion, and its surface, abundantly mottled with points of fatty degeneration, has an appearance which has been very aptly likened to that of an miripe pear. On section the tumour shows a marked tendency to contract, as evidenced by the bulging of the adjacent tissues. Radiating from the circumference of the tumour are numerous silvery white strands, the so-called "claws" of the cancer. Microsco2ncally, the tumour shows a few small atrophic-looking groups of cancer cells, often arranged in a linear fashion, embedded in an abundant stroma con- sisting of coarse, sclerosed, and hyaline white fibrous tissue containing many elastic fibres. Many of the cell groups have undergone com- plete fatty degeneration. In the diffuse atrophic form, the nipple is generally deeply retracted, and the breast as a whole is stony hard, shrunken, and drawn up to a higher level than its fellow. Later on, the skin over the breast becomes adherent as well as puckered and irregularly furrowed from cicatrisation of the deeper parts. This condition bears a close external resemblance to the diffuse cicatricial form of mastitis, from which it is to be distinguished by the stony hardness, the fixation of the deeper parts, and generally by the presence of small but characteristically hard axillary glands. Occasionally both the circum- scribed and diffuse forms give rise to slow but progressive infiltration and dissemination in the skin, so that a chronic condition of cancer "e7t cuirasse " may be produced. This is more liable to happen when the primary tumour is situated behind the nipple, infection of the skin taking place through the medium of the subareolar lymphatic plexus of Sappey. The most remarkable feature of the atrophic form of cancer is the long course of the disease. It is quite common for the patient to live from five to ten years, and cases have been recorded in which the patient lived from twenty to thirty years. Although axillary infection and secondary deposits do not as a rule make their appearance until several years after the disease is first noticed, yet eventually they are the usual cause of the death of the patient. Occasionally death is brought about by exhaustion, the result of local ulceration, the tumour being represented by an extensive, slowly spreading, indurated ulcer firmly fixed to the chest wall. Acute Cancer:—In marked contrast to the atrophic cancers just described are the acute forms of the disease, which may occur either in a circumscribed or diffuse form. The former, known as '^tuberous" ca7icer, occurs as a rapidly growing, large, generally well-circumscribed, but non-encapsulated tumour of a less hard but more elastic consistence than the ordinary scirrhus. The tumour, generally bulging upon the surface, is covered by stretched skin, which does not become adherent until it is actually invaded by the direct extension of the tumour. On section, the comparative softness of the tumour, its somewhat homogeneous medullary appearance, and its well-defined outline, give it a close resemblance to a round-celled sarcoma: a resemblance which is further strengthened by the liability of the central portion of the tumour to undergo mucoid and hfemorrhagic softening. The axillary glands may be secondarily affected in both diseases. The term encephaloid cancer which has been applied to these tumours is an unfortunate one, inasmuch as it is often microscopically indis- tinguishable from the growing edge of an ordinary scirrhus, while other tumours of the breast, which are totally different microscopi- cally, may have an encephaloid appearance clinically—for example, the adeno-carcinoma of Halstead, to be subsequently described. In the later stages, when the skin over the tumour has become reddened and the centre converted into a degeneration cyst, there may be consider- able difficulty in distinguishing the condition from an abscess ; indeed, in some cases a dia- gnosis cannot be made until the swelling is incised. The state of the axillary glands affords an important aid to diagnosis, as they are usu- ally distinctly more indui-ated in the malignant affection. The diffuse {infiltrating) acute carcinoma is the most formidable and rapidly fatal of all the tumours of the mamma. The disease in its most typical form almost invai'iably sets in during pregnancy or lactation. The increased vascularity and evolutionary changes whichMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 199 normally occur at these periods, appear to force on the morbid process in an extraordinary manner. The whole breast, and not infre- quently both breasts, may be rapidly converted into a solid, heavy, brawny mass of cancer. The skin, which early becomes adherent, is sub- sequently thickened, and presents a coarse or " orange-peel" appearance due to cancerous in- filtration of its lymphatics, some of the larger trunks being occasionally seen to radiate from the nipple as whitish cord-like elevations. Hard cancerous nodules of a shot-like or lenticular character can often be felt disseminated in the skin over the breast and its neighbourhood. Not infrequently the skin has a dusky red colour, and when this is associated, as it often is, with a local and general elevation of tempera- ture, the condition may readily be mistaken for an acute mastitis. It is this acute or inflamma- tory form of cancer which has received the name of mastitis carcinomatosa. The axillary glands are early affected, and secondary growths rapidly appear in many parts of the body. Death generally results within a year of the commencement of the disease. Billroth and others have reported cases in which the disease ran its course in a few weeks. Histologically, the structure of the tumour is that of a very cellular carcinoma, with the scanty stroma infiltrated with leucocytes. Operation in this form of cancer is not to be recommended ; recurrence invariably takes place at an early date, and as a very large area of skin would have to be removed, the disease is almost certain to reappear long before the large granulating surface has had time to heal. Colloid Cancer.—This form of cancer is de- cidedly rare, forming only about 1 or 2 per cent of cancers of the breast, and is characterised, clinically, by its slow growth and by its low degree of malignancy. The axillary glands are either not all affected, or only after the disease has existed for some years. Metastases are rarely met with. The tumour begins generally about middle life as a circumscribed, firm, nodu- lar tumour of slow growth, a history of five to ten years' duration being frequently given. In the two typical cases observed by the writer, the tumour on palpation presented characters intermediate between those of a fibro- adenoma and a scirrhus. The consistence was almost as hard as a scirrhus, the outline better defined, and the surface more nodular; the nipple was not retracted, neither was the skin tacked down. The axillary glands were normal. The tumour was at once distinguished from a fibro-adenoma by the fact that it moved along with, and not independently of, the breast, and tliat it was too hard for a fibro-adenoma. On section a colloid cancer is seen to be non- encapsulated, but somewhat lobulated, due to the translucent, firm, colloid areas being sur- rounded by glistening white fibrous bands. Many of the non-colloid areas have a structure similar to that of an ordinary scirrhus. Microscopically, the colloid material is seen to be the result of degeneration of the proto- plasm of the cancer cells, whole clusters of which may become transformed into colloid areas of various sizes. No doubt it is this tendency to degeneration on the part of the cancer cells which not only delays the growtli of the tumour, but interferes also with dissemi- nation, the cancer cells being imprisoned in the colloid material. The prognosis after complete removal of the breast and clearing of tlie axilla is good, and in all probability, in the majority of cases, it would be equally good although the axilla were not interfered with. Since, however, the micro- scope alone can prove the absence of glandular infection, it is safer to clear out the axilla. Both carcinomata and fibro-adenomata have occasionally a somewhat gelatinous appearance, the result of a mucoid degeneration of the stroma, a condition which must not be mistaken for true colloid cancer. Duct Cancers.—Under this heading there have been described conditions so widely diff'erent as (1) tumours found associated with Paget's dis- ease of the nipple ; (2) villous tumours grow- ing from the lactiferous ducts and from cysts; (3) tubular cancers. The tumour associated with Paget's disease of the nipple is an ordinary scirrhous carcinoma of the spheroidal-celled type, combined with a malignant proliferation of the epithelium of one or more of the lactiferous ducts. Under the title of "Duct Cancers, or Villous Carcinomata," Mr. Bowlby has directed attention to a group of villous tumours the clinical features and life-histoi-y of which he has clearly defined. The writer, however, agrees with Williams, Robinson, and Raymond Johnson, who regard the tumours described by Bowlby as non-malignant; following these authors, therefore, they have been described along with the simple tumours imder the title " Duct Papillomata." We are left, therefore, with the third group, viz., the tubular cancers, which, according to Williams, are alone entitled to be described as duct cancers. Histologically, these tumours "are charac- terised by the presence of elongated intercom- municating cellular processes growing into the surrounding connective tissue. These processes have the form either of hollow tubes lined with one or several layers of columnar epithelium, or of solid cellular cylinders of which at least the peripheral cells are of the columnar tj^pe." The tubular spaces may be dilated into cysts into which papillary growths may project. From the columnar type of those cells, Williams infers that the neoplasms originate from the mammary ducts. Compared with the spheroidal-celled or acinous cancer they are more nodular, better circum-200 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF scribed, and sometimes even encapsulated. Tliey are of much slower growth, occur at a later period of life, less frequently infect the Fig. 16.—Shows cancer spreading in the lymphatics of the breast tissue. Below IS a small ultimate lobule of the parencliyraa, with the perilobular lymphatics at its upper part distended with cancer cells. lu the right upper quadrant of the field, the paravascular lymphatics accompanying two blood-vessels are dilated and filled with cancer cells; in the upper and left quadrant the cancer has invaded the intramammary fat. axillary glands, and neither the nipple nor the skin becomes retracted. After growing slowly for some years they may rapidly enlarge and ultimately fungate. More than half the cases operated upon have been followed by local recurrence. The treatment is the same as that of the ordinary acinous cancer, and the prognosis is probably better. Adeno-Carcinoma.—Under this term Hal- stead has singled out a type of carcinoma which possesses distinctive pathological and clinical features. He has met with 5 of these tumours in about 150 breast cancers. They all occurred in married women from forty-two to sixty-seven years of age, the average age being fifty-seven years, which is practically ten years later than the average age at which the ordinary scirrhus appears. Clinically, they differ from the ordinary scirrhus cancer in that they are softer, more vascular, grow to a larger size, and, above all, have a pronounced tendency to form fungating outgrowths which are often pedunculated. From the point of view of prognosis these tumours demand special recognition, as in spite of their encephaloid and malignant appearance they are actually much less malignant than the ordinary acinous cancers. In none of Halstead's cases were the axillary glands infected, although they were generally enlarged as the result of endothelial hyperplasia. Microscopically, the tumour is seen to be made up of large tubular spaces lined with many layers of epithelial cells. In many of the tubes the epithelium forms " cell com- binations which have resulted in the forma- tion of gland-like figures, circles, tubes, columns, and minute papillae. Even when the tubes are completely filled with tightly packed cells, one can detect little circles of cells or little tubes which betray the tend- ency and ability which the cells still have to form definite combinations." Similar microscopic appearances had previously been described by Morton, who, however, did not associate them with any clinical significance. In some parts of the tumour the epithelial cells form irregular clusters in the lymph spaces just as in pure carcinoma. From Halstead's description and illustra- tions of these tumours, the writer had no difficulty in recognising the condition in a case upon which he operated, and the subse- quent freedom from recurrence has justified the favourable prognosis which was given. Treatment.—Previous to the researches of Heidenhain and the writer, the credit of having condemned the old insufficient opera- tion, and of having practised an operation which raised the percentage of cures from 5 per cent or less, up to 10, 15, or 20 per cent, belongs more especially to Moore, Banks, and Lister in this country, to Gross in America, and to Volkmann and Kiister in Germany. In Fig. 16.—In the centre of the field is a main lactiferous duct lined by normal epithelium. The lymphatics and lymph spaces in the adventitious coat of the duct, whicli are everywhere filled with cancer cells, might lead to the erroneous conclusion that we have to deal with a lobule of the breast, the acini of which have be- come converted into numerous alveolar spaces. 1889 Heidenhain, and in 1891 the writer, published their researches into the causes of recurrence after operation, and the modern201 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF operative treatment of cancer of the breast, which gives a percentage of 40-50 per cent of cures (calculated on Volkniann's three years' Fig. 17.—Shows a large perivascular lymphatic (cut obliquely) plugged with caucer cells. This lymphatic is accompanying the blood-vessels and nerves which occupy a connective-tissue " claw " which is radiating from the edge of the tumour into the surrounding fat near the axilla. limit), is to a large extent the outcome of their work. Now that it is known that cancer is primarily a local affection, it is the duty of the surgeon to I'emove not only the entire breast, but to endeavour as far as possible to remove also as much of the adjacent structures as are likely to be involved in the dissemination of the disease. In the early stages of the dis- ease, it is the exception to discover in or around the breast disseminated foci which are visible to the naked eye. Careful micro- scopic investigation, however, frequently re- veals their presence more or less remote from the primary tumour, so that, whether visible or not, all those tissues in which we are accustomed to find them must be looked upon with suspicion and removed. Unfortunately, it is impossible to say precisely in any given case when or in what order, in what particu- lar direction, or to what extent, the various tissues become infected by the dissemination, and herein lie the difficulty and uncertainty of the operative treatment of the disease. As the cancer cells have necessarily occupied the lymphatic spaces for some time before the tumour can be detected clinically, some local dissemination has in all probability taken place by the time the patient comes under treatment. For a detailed account of the channels along which the disease in the breast is disseminated (Figs. 15-26), the reader is referred to a fully illustrated paper by the writer in the British Medical Journal for 17th June 1899. Suffice it here to say, that no matter how small and circumscribed the tumour, or how early it be detected, the minimum routine operation should include the removal of the following structures : —(1) The skin covering the whole or the greater part of the mammary prominence, including a good margin beyond that which overlies the tumour; (2) the tumour along with the whole of the breast tissue; (3) as nuich as possible of the paramammary fat; (4) the pectoral fascia, all the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major, the fascia covering the serratus magnus, as well as that covering the digitations of origin of the external oblique and the upper part of the rectus abdominis;^ (5) the axillary fat and glands along with the lymphatic vessels, the main trunks of which pass up into the neck in close relation to the sheath of the axillary vein (the sheath of the vein must therefore be removed); (6) the fat, glands, and lymphatic trunks which extend upwards behind the axillary vessels into the posterior triangle of the neck; (7) the fat and fascia in front of and behind the pectoralis minor, and, if necessary, the muscle itself; (8) the costo-coracoid membrane, along with the fat, glands, and lymphatic trunks which lie below and behind the clavicle in relation to the first part of the axillary vessels and the third part of the subclavian vein. The Operation.—The purification of the skin is a matter of great importance. The writer -4 . 18.—Transverse section of one of the ligaments of Cooper, showing a small artery and vein ; between them is a small-celled infiltration, in the midst of which, towards the upper part, is a small lymphatic vessel containing three or four cancer cells. has invariably found the following plan to be as 1 The disputed question as to the necessity of remov- ing the pectoralis major, or at any rate its sternal fibres, has been settled in the affirmative by the researches of Rotter, who has shown that in one out of three breast cancers the fascia and glands upon the posterior surface of the pectoralis major are affected.202 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF reliable as it is simple :—On the evening before the operation the axilla is shaved, and the whole of the skin of the chest, axilla, shoulder, scapu- Fio. 19.—At the lower edge of the figure is the cut suface of the paramammary fat made by the surgeon in removing the breast. Immediately adjacent to this surface is a large paravascular lymphatic containing a cancerous embolus ; in the upper right quadrant is a smaller paravascular lymphatic also containing an embolus. lar region, root of neck, and upper part of the abdomen, is thoroughly well scrubbed with warm water containing two tea-spoonfuls of lysol to the pint of water and about a table- spoonful of a mixture consisting of equal parts of green soap and rectified spirits. This forms an excellent lather, and all the time that the skin is being mechanically cleansed the antiseptic, which is both volatile and penetrating, is being well rubbed in. The lather is then washed off with a 1 to 20 solution of carbolic acid, after which the whole chest and upper arm are enveloped in a dry sterilised towel fixed in position by a bandage. At the operation the same pro- cess is repeated. The writer does not approve of the application for some hours of a car- bolic poultice over so large an area on account of the large amount of carbolic acid which is absorbed, and also on account of the injury to the skin. As regards the details of the operation, the method now employed by Halstead, Cheyne, Kocher, Rotter, and many others who per- form the operation on the same thorough lines, gives equally gratifying results, viz., 40 to 50 per cent of cures based on Volkmann's three years' limit. But it is not so much a question of which particular operation is done, as of the care and thoroughness with which each step of the selected operation is carried out. With certain improvements in detail derived from the experience of Cheyne, the writer is in the habit of performing the operation on the lines which, in 1891, he advocated as the out- come of personal observation on the anatomy of the breast and the extent and mode of dis- semination of the disease. To the steps of the operation as described by Cheyne in the Lancet of 18th March 1899, I would add the removal in all cases of the sternal fibres of the pectoralis major. The Skin l7icision.—In the majority of instances, the most convenient incision is a wide ellipse the breadth of the mammary prominence, the long axis extending from the neighbourhood of the ensiform cartilage to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla, from whence an incision is carried along the fold to a little beyond and below its junction with the upper arm; this portion of the incision should be made at the same stage of the opera- tion as the ellipse. If the tumour be at or near the centre of the mamma no modification of this incision is required, except that the ellipse should always be widened away from the particular portion of the circumference of the breast towards which the tumour is situated. Should the tumour be at or near the periphery of the breast, the skin over it must be freely removed by including it within a triangular or horse-shoe shaped in- cision in such a way that the base of the area mapped out forms part of the ellipse. A very important point, and one which is not, I think, sufficiently attended to, is the free re- FIQ. 20.—Section of the retromammary fat and pectoral fascia showing several small blood-vessels accompanied by efferent mammary lymphatics, some of which are filled with cancer cells which are deeply stained and shrunk in the preparation of the specimen so as to leave a clear ring between them and the wall of the lymphatic. moval of the shin in all directions around the tumour. Whatever incisions are made, it is a good rule to plan them in such a way that the centre of the area of skin removed should as far203 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF as possible overlie the tumour, it being under- stood, of course, that the skin covering the whole of the prominence of the breast must Fl8. 21.—Show's the cancerous paravascular lymphatic at the lower part of Kig. 20 more highly magnified. Above is the companion vein, while below it is the artery. always be removed. At this stage of the opera- tion, therefore, the surgeon must not concern himself whether he will be able consequently to close the wovmd. Insufficient removal of skin is a fertile cause of local recurrence where an otherwise complete operation is performed. Having made the incision, the next step is the rejiection of the large skin flaps well beyond the limits of the breast tissue, which, as we have seen, are much more extensive than was formerly supposed. The flaps should contain only just enough subcutaneous fat to prevent sloughing : otherwise some of the parenchyma and lymphatics which extend into the liga- ments of Cooper are almost certain to be left in the flaps, more particularly in spare women. In reflecting the lower and outer flap, the surgeon grasps the edge of the skin between the finger and thumb while the assistant steadies the breast; in reflecting the upper and inner flap the assistant pulls the skin upwards, the operator meanwhile putting the breast on the stretch with his left hand. The lower and outer flap is reflected as far back as the posterior fold of the axilla, and as far down as the digitations of origin of the ex- ternal oblique and the upper part of the rectus muscle; the upper and inner flap is reflected upwards to a little above the interval between the sternal and clavicular fibres of the pector- alis major, that is to say, almost up to the clavicle and inwards to the middle line of the sternum. The fascia is then divided along the anterior fold of the axilla, and dissected backwards towards the posterior fold so as to expose the axillary vein. The finger is now passed beneath the pectoralis major where it crosses the axillary vessels, and the sternal fibres of the muscle are divided close to the upper arm. Having clamped the pectoral branches of the thoracic axis as they cross tlie interval between the clavicular and sternal portions of the muscle, the latter portion, along with the breast, is with a few strokes of the knife rapidly separ- ated from the pectoralis minor and then from its costo - sternal attachments. Below and external to the pectoralis major, the deep surface of the breast is dissected off the upper part of the rectus and the digitations of the external oblique muscles, and, lastly, off' the serratus magnus, the fascia being at the same time removed. The nerve to the serratus should, if possible, be preserved. The mass, which is next separated from the latissimus dorsi, is turned aside, and the rest of the axilla is thoroughly cleared of axillary fat and glands. Before this is done the fascia is carefully removed from both surfaces of the pectoralis minor, which can then be re- tracted either upwards or downwards as desired, or the muscle itself may be removed if necessaiy. The sheath of the axillary vein should be removed, and along with it the glands in front of and below the vein, includ- ing those upon the posterior wall of the Fig. 22.—Canceruus efferent paravascular lymphatics accompanying the blood-vessels and nerves which occupy the interfascicular connective tissue of the pectoralis major. A few fibres of the muscle are seen cut transversely at the upper and lower limits of the field. axilla. The subscapular nerve may generally be spared. In cleaning the posterior wall, the glands and fat which extend upwards behind the axillary vessels towards and into the posterior triangle of the neck must be followed up andMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 204 removed; only in the event of the glands being diseased is it necessaiy to clear out the posterior triangle of the neck. Halstead, however, re- FlG. 23.—Section of the fatty tissue of the axilla immediately adjacent to a lymphatic gland. In the lower part of the figure is a lymphatic trunk filled with cancer cells; in the left upper quadrant are smaller lymphatics also cancerous. commends the removal of tlie supraclavicular glands in all cases. Lastly, the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major being retracted upwards, while the pectoralis minor is retracted downwards, the surgeon removes the costo-coracoid membrane along with the fat and glands beneath and behind the clavicle, and around the first part of the axillary vessels and the third part of the subclaA'ian vein. If the operation be performed under an antiseptic technique, that is to say, if anti- septic swabs have been used, and especially if the wound has been washed out with an antiseptic lotion, it will generally be found necessary to introduce a drain through the posterior flap for forty-eight hours to carry away the copious blood-stained exudate. By widely dissecting up large skin flaps in the manner described, combined with some extra undermining at one or two places, it is generally possible to bring- together the edges of the skin so as to close the whole or almost the whole of the wound. When this is not possible, the raw surface can sometimes be covered by making an additional curved incision at right angles to the lower lip of the wound, and sliding a flap inwards from the lateral aspect of the thorax ; or the raw surface may be Thiersch- grafted, either at the time of operation or after the surface has become covered with granu- lations. For sutures silkworm-gut is preferable to silk, and if no drainage-tube be employed the suturing should be interrupted rather than con- tinuous. Over the deep antiseptic or aseptic gauze dressing is placed a large quantity of sublimated wool, an additional pad being arranged behind where the greater part of the exudate finds its way. The writer has with gratifying results followed the plan advocated by the late Mr. Edward Cotterell and approved of by Cheyne, viz., of applying the dressing with the arm abducted almost to a right angle with the chest. The limb may be maintained in this position simply by the bandage, provided it is firmly applied, and provided also that a specially large pad of wool is placed between the arm and the chest. The forearm is supported in the prone position upon a pillow to which it is fixed by a couple of slip knots. This position of the limb has the great advantage of enabling the patient to freely abduct the arm as soon as she is allowed the use of it; moreover, the patient does not complain of the feeling of tightness and respiratory oppression which is almost invariably ex- perienced when the arm is bandaged to the chest. The stitches as a rule should not be re- moved before the tenth day. The vessels, as far as possible, should be clamped before division, forceps should be ap- plied at once to all the more important bleeding Fig. 24.—Vertical section of skin and sulicutaneous tissue covering the mamma; in the corium of the former is a small shot-like dissemi- nated nodule of cancer. points, and all bleeding should be carefully arrested before the wound is sutured. Veins opening into the axillary vein should be divided at a little distance from the main trunk, so that a pedicle may be left sufficient to prevent the205 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF ligature from slipping. If only a small wound be made in the axillary vein, it is wiser to apply a double ligature to the whole vessel rather Fig. 25.—Transverse section of an axillary lymphatic trunk, the lumen of which contains rings and small clusters of cancer cells which no doubt represent emboli which have been con- veyed to it from smaller lymphatics. than to trust to a lateral ligature. Should the glands be adherent to the vein, a portion of the latter may be safely removed. If the bleeding at the operation be less than usual owing to cardiac weakness, it is a wise precaution to introduce a drain, as some reactionary haemorrhage is liable to occur. If the reactionary hsemorrhage be at all severe, the patient should be anaesthetised and the surgeon should not hesitate to freely open up the wound, to remove all the clots, and to search for and ligature any bleeding- vessels ; he must not be surprised, however, if none be discovered, as the bleeding may be a general ooze due either to a hsemophilic tendency or to some general condition inter- fering with the natural arrest of haemorrhage. The opening up of the wound must be done with the same precautions to secure asepsis as at the original operation. The advantage of thoroughly removing all blood-clots is that the subsequent healing of the wound will not be delayed. Suprarenal extract would appear to be the best internal remedy in obstinate cases of general oozing. Ulceration of the tumour adds very materi- ally to the risk of the operation. It is in these cases that death from acute sepsis is liable to occur. Possibly, in some instances, the organisms have been conveyed by the lymphatics to the deeper tissues, where they remain latent until set free and excited activity by the operation. However this may be, every endeavour should be made to prevent direct infection of the wound from the ulcer at the time of operation. Some days before the oper- ation pure carbolic acid should be well rubbed into the ulcer after painting it with a 5 per cent solution of cocaine, and this may be repeated two or three times at intervals of a day or so. During the time the ulcer is being purified special attention must also be paid to the surrounding skin, which is certain to swarm with organisms derived from the discharges of the ulcer. The skin over the chest should be well washed daily with warm water containing spirits of soap and lysol. At the operation pure carbolic acid should be reapplied, or, what is still better, the actual cautery should be thoroughly applied to the surface of the ulcer, which is then covered by a pad of gauze which should be sutured to the adjacent skin to keep it in position. The skin over the rest of the field of operation is then purified in the manner already indicated. A drain should always be used in these cases, and too much tension should not be put upon the flap. Before leaving the subject of the operative treatment, reference must be made to prelimi- nary explorations. In all cases in which the diagnosis is in the least doubtful an exploratory operation is advisable. The worst advice that can be given is to recommend the patient to wait and try the effect of local applications. An exploratory operation should be urged without FIG to , 26 —Portion of a lymphatic gland the size of a small pea. To the naked eye the gland appeared to be perfectly healthy. The microscope, however, reveals a few clusters of cancer cells (more deeply stained than the lymphoid cells of the gland) in the sub- capsular lymph sinus at that part of the circumference towards the left lower quadrant of the field ; to tlie right is the adipose tissue of the hilum of the gland. unnecessary delay, and the surgeon must obtain the consent of the patient to proceed there and then to perform a radical operation should the condition prove to be malignant.206 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF After cutting into a cancer, the danger of infection of the surrounding tissues with the blood and juices which escape from the tumour is not a mere theoretical one. On no account is the same knife which is employed for the exploration to be used for the rest of the opera- tion, unless it be thoroughly purified. Mr. Cheyne objects to an exploratory incision into favour of the latter, in which dry swabs and dry sheets are used, and in which no fluid of any kind is applied to the wound. The advan- tages of such a practice are :—The patient is not chilled by any evaporation from damp sheets or towels; no swabbing is required to remove lotions applied to the wound; there is less bleeding, as the natural arrest of haemorrhage takes place more ^ -— ~ ~ readily; time is saved during the operation; there is less reactionary serous exudation, and therefore less necessity for drain- age ; there is less simple reactionary fever—indeed, fre- quently there is none at all. Cancer of the breast is by no means the incur- able disease it wa^ formerly con- sidered to be. The percentage of cures has progressively increased as the spread of the dis- ease and the ex- tent of the operative interference necessary for its adequate treatment have become better known. Sir James Paget stated that in his own practice he did not know of a single case of cure. Billroth's statistics, the best up to that date, gave a percentage of 4'7 cxires in 143 cases operated upon between 1867 and 1876. " The results of the more radical operations Fig. 27.—Vertical slice through a diffuse carcinoma of the mamma, treated with nitric acid. The whole corpus mammae is cancerous, and there are numerous foci of cancer disseminated throughout the para- mammary fat, under the areola, and in and immediately beneath the mammary integument. The nipple is retracted. the swelling, on the ground that the cancer cells that are set free from the cut surface of the tumour infect the fingers of the operator as well as the skin of the patient and the sur- roundings generally ; he recommends that " the suspected swelling should be excised along with an area of apparently healthy tissue around," and that it should be cut into, away from the imme- diate vicinity of the operation, by some one not directly associ- ated with the operation. When the bleeding has been stopped, the wound is stuffed with gauze or a small sponge, and then securely stitched up. The skin of the operator and of the patient, as well as the instruments em- ployed, should be redisinfected. Probably most surgeons would not hesitate to cut into the tumour, provided the wound be subsequently completely closed, and the opera- tor's hands and the skin of the patient thoroughly disinfected. An incision into the swelling is almost invariably sufficient to enable an ex- perienced surgeon to settle the question of malignancy. As regards the prevention of wound infection, the writer, after considerable experience of the antiseptic and aseptic techniques, both in hospital and private practice, is strongly in 0 Fig.28 Peripheral slice of a mamma showing cancerous foci disseminated (in the para- mammary fat) upon the cut surface made by the surgeon while excising the organ. performed by Konig, Kiister, Gross, Banks, Estlander, and Gussenbauer, show from 16'7 to 22"5 per cent of permanent cures, the average being 20-8 " (Keene and White, Text-Book of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 1065). Curtiss, who col- lected statistics of the results of 1213 opera- tions for breast cancer, reported from European cliniques between 1888 and 1893, found that 22 per cent remained free from local recurrence or metastasis for three years or more. Taking207 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF the statistics published by the undermentioned operators since 1893, we find the percentage of cures to be as follows:—Halstead, 52 per cent out of 76 cases; Cheyne, 50-8 per cent out of 61 cases; Rotter, 50 per cent out of 10 cases; Dennis, 45 per cent out of 38 cases ; Wenan, 40 per cent out of 30 cases; May, 35 per cent out of 20 cases; Helferich, 28'6 per cent out of 35 cases; Bull, 26-6 per cent out of 75 cases; that is to say, an average percentage of 41'2 cures out of 315 cases. It must be understood that the word "cure " is here used in the sense originally applied by Volkmann, viz., to cases which show no signs of local recurrence or metastasis three or more years after operation. It must be admitted, however, that a small proportion do recur at a later period than three years after operation. Kcinig puts the per- centage as high as 15 ; but according to Cheyne, the percentage after the modern radical opera- tion is only 6. Moreover, Cheyne's own statistics bring out the important fact that a distinctly hopeful prognosis may be given in cases where only one year has elapsed without recurrence, provided, of course, a sufficiently radical operation was performed. Favourable as are these later statistics, viz., 40 to 50 per cent of cures, the writer is con- vinced that even better results will be obtained in the future as the lay mind comes more and more to realise that cancer of the breast is a curable disease, provided it is dealt with by a sufficiently radical operation as soon as possible after the tumour is detected. And here he would refer to the important remark of Cheyne, who says : " I may add my firm conviction that the patient's chance lies in the first operation. If this fail, either from imperfect removal of the disease, or on account of the extent of the disease in the first instance, further operation, however extensive, is seldom successful." Extensive and severe as is the complete operation for cancer of the breast, it is attended with a mortality far below that which followed the old incomplete operation in the pre-anti- septic days. Billroth's mortality in his 143 cases was 23-7 per cent. According to Williams, the average mortality in four of the large London hospitals between 1882 and 1890 was 9'4 per cent. Lister's mortality between 1871 and 1880 was 7*5 per cent. Volkmann, Gross, Gussenbauer, and Kiister reduced the mortality to 5-4, 3-7, 2-8, and 2-5 per cent respectively. Still more recently the combined results of Cheyne, Bennet, May, Bull, Dennis, Weir, Halstead, and Keene give a mortality of only •81 per cent out of a total of 574 operations. It follows, therefore, that the improved methods now at our disposal for securing asepsis, have more than counterbalanced any increased risk associated with the greater magnitude of the complete operation. Contraindications for Operation.—A radical operation is contraindicated unless there be a fair prospect of removing all the local and glandular disease. It should not be performed in cases of cancer en cuirasse; when there is widespread shot-like or nodular dissemination in the skin over the breast; when there is ex- tensive ulceration with the base of the ulcer adherent to the ribs; when the carotid as well as the supraclavicular glands are diseased; or when the axilla is the seat of a cancerous mass which is firmly adherent to the vessels and nerves. Atrophic scirrhus, formerly considered by many surgeons to be a contraindication, is now regarded by Cheyne as the most favourable form of cancer of the breast for obtaining a permanent cure by operation. A careful search should always be made for secondary growths in distant parts and in- ternal organs, as they of course contraindicate operation. In certain cases, however, in which the disease is too extensive for complete removal, a palli- ative operation becomes expedient for the pur- pose of removing a tumour which is ulcerated and attended with much pain or putrid dis- charge. No attempt is made to remove the whole of the disease, so that the wound can generally be closed. When there is a mass of disease in the axilla, which is giving rise to intense pain and oedema of the arm by pressure upon the axillary nerves and vessels, resort has occasionally been had to amputation of the arm at the shoulder, with division of the vessels and nerves above the cancerous mass. Removal of the whole upper extremity has even been performed in such circumstances. The majority of patients, no doubt, will be found to prefer increasing doses of morphia, opium, or nepenthe rather than be subjected to such a procedure. Before resorting to morphia, however, phenacetin in doses of ten grains every four or six hours should be tried, as it generally suffices, at any rate in the first instance, to relieve the pain and soothe the patient, while it has the advantage over morphia that its continued administration is not attended by deterioration of self-control. As a local application to a foul, cancerous ulcer nothing is more satisfactory than the fre- quent application of a dressing soaked in a 1 or 2 per cent solution of formalin. As a dusting powder iodoform, pure or mixed with boracic acid, still holds the first place. When iodoform cannot be tolei'ated, boracic acid, glutol, aristol, xeroform, or orthoform may be substituted; the last mentioned is said to have a powerful local ansesthetic action lasting for several hours. Another useful application is to dust the surface with exsiccated permanganate of potash. As regards inoperable cases of mammary cancer, a paper was read by Dr. Beatson of Glasgow, in 1896, before the Edinburgh Medico-208 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF Chirurgical Society, bringing forward some re- sults that he had obtained in such cases by removal of the tubes and ovaries, combined with the administration of thyroid extract. One of the cases treated by this plan was the subject of such extensive recurrence shortly after excision of the mamma, that further operative measures to remove the disease were out of the question. When shown one year after oophorectomy, thyroid extract having meanwhile been administered, the disease had entirely disappeared. The treatment adopted was based upon the close physiological relationship that is known to exist between the ovary and mamma. It was argued that removal of the ovaries might so affect the nutrition of the mammary region that the progress of the new growth might be arrested ; the thyroid extract, in doses of five grains thrice daily, was given with a view to assist the absorption of the degenerated cancer cells. The above case confirmed this view. Since Dr. Beatson published his paper {Lancet, July 1896) others have made trial of this method, and in many cases with good results. Mr. Stanley Boyd (in the British Medical Journal, 20th October 1900) gives a resume of 54 cases treated by himself and others by oophorectomy with or without the administration of thyroid extract. He says: " In all cases, except one in which death occurred from a cause other than cancer, life seemed to be prolonged by the oophorectomy at least six months." Of the 54 cases, 19, or 35 per cent, were more or less markedly benefited; 34, or 64-5 per cent, were not benefited, or were only doubtfully benefited; and 1 died of exhaustion. In the majority of cases the cancer reappears in six or twelve months, and in Mr. Boyd's collected cases about 6 per cent obtained im- munity for a period of two years or over. The operation seems to have no effect on cancers of the uterus, or of organs other than the breast, nor does it aftect metastatic growths ; only one case of cancer of the breast operated on after the menopause has been reported where benefit has been obtained. So far as our present experience goes the most favourable cases for this operation are those in which the cancer is chronic, where there are no metastatic lesions, and in which the patient has not passed the menopause. The treatment is yet on its trial, and until further experience of its effects is obtained we are hardly justified in urging the operation on the patient. It may, however, be claimed for this method of treatment that, although it has not yet been proved to be curative, it has undoubtedly given better results than has any other form of treatment in inoperable cases. Pagefs Disease of the Nipple and Areola.— Paget, in 1874, directed attention to a charac- teristic disease of the mammary areola, which in his experience was almost invariably followed by cancer of the mammary gland. That Paget's disease is rare is shown by the fact that only in about 1 per cent of cases does it precede carcinoma of the breast. A sufficient number of cases have now been investigated to establish the correctness and importance of Paget's observations as to the morbid entity of the condition and its association with cancer of the breast. The disease begins around the orifices of the ducts as a bright red excoriation, which, after spreading to the areola, gradually extends circumferentially so as to involve more and more of the adjacent skin. The surface of the patch has a florid, raw, granulated appearance, compared by Paget to that seen in an acute balanitis. The nipple is usually indurated and often somewhat retracted, and in the later stages it is replaced by an ulcerated surface. Closer examination of the parts beyond the nipple shows that the surface is not really ulcerated, but that the epidermis is for the most part thin, excoriated, or completely desquamated, while little pearly white patches, scaly areas, and thin crusts, due to accumulated epithelium, are scattered here and there over the surface, especially towards the periphery of the patch. Unlike acute eczema there is no vesication. The discharge is viscid and either clear or slightly turbid, but not purulent. The patient usually complains of a tingling or burning sensation, but there is never the marked itching of eczema. The affected area is slightly raised, and its edge, though often sinuous, is sharply defined; when pinched up it has a peculiar parchment-like and slightly thickened feel. The breast itself may be quite normal, or the parts beneath the nipple may be indurated, or a scirrhous tumour may be felt in this situation; occasionally the tumour is more towards the periphery of the gland. The frequency with which the disease is followed by a carcinomatous tumour in the breast is difficult to estimate, as the cancer may not develop until ten or even more years after the first appearance of the disease; out of 23 cases collected by Bowlby cancer ensued in 14. The tumour, which is of the ordinary scirrhous type, possesses almost invariably the structure of an acinous carcinoma. In some instances so many of the ducts are filled with proliferating cancerous epithelium, that some authors describe the resulting tumours as "duct"' cancers. The morbid histology of the affection was first carefully studied by Thin and Butlin. Subse- quently Darier, Wickham, Hutchinson, and others stated that the disease was a malignant dermatitis due to the presence, in the epidermis, of parasitic protozoa of the natui'e of psorosperms or coccidia, a view which has been stronglyMAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 209 opposed by Borrel, Thin, Riifter, Delepine, Karg, Tdrok, and Unna. The writer, after devoting much attention to the so-called psorosperms of this disease, has convinced himself that they are simply epidermic cells which have undergone a peculiar cancerous metaplasia. A vertical section through the diseased patch shows foci of epithelial proliferation, situated more especially in the intercapillary processes of the Malpighian layer of the epidermis (Fig. 29). Under a high power (Fig. 30) the pro- FlG. 29.—Paget's disease of the nipple. Vertical section of the skin near the periphery of the patch. In the interpapillary processes of the epidermis are clusters of large malignant epithelial cells, the so-called psorosperms. liferating epithelial cells present a very different appearance from the adjacent non-proliferating epidermic cells; the former are much larger, often oval or spherical, and contain a large and generally hyperchromatic nucleus embedded in a very delicate and faintly stained dropsical looking protoplasm. Many of the nuclei are undergoing mitosis. These large and typically malignant looking epithelial cells are placed between, and not within, the ordinary epidermic cells. The double contoured cell membrane, claimed by Wickham and others as proof of the parasitic nature of these cell structures, is by no means always present. The membrane is the result of a slight kerato-hyaline transformation of the periphery of the cell—an attempt, in short, on the part of the cell to follow out its normal involution into a horny epidermic cell. The other microscopical appearances brought forward as evidence of the parasitic nature of these peculiar cells are the result of faulty microscopic technique. In addition to the malignant proliferating foci in the epidermis, the superficial layer of the corium is the seat of a dense small-celled infil- VOL. VI tration. In the nipple a similar malignant pro- liferation of the cells lining one or more of the ducts takes place. In the later stages of the disease groups of cancer cells are found infil- trating the nipple, the lymph spaces of the corium of the surrounding skin, and the adven- titious coats of the ducts. It would appear, therefore, that the starting-point of the disease is in the neighbourhood of the orifice of one or more of the mammillary ducts, and that the malignant process spreads both circumferentially in the skin and downwards along the ducts (Figs. 31 and 32) into the breast, where sooner or later a distinct tumour develops. Treatment.—Should the nipple affection be combined with a tumour in the breast, the treatment will necessarily consist of the modem extensive operation now performed as a matter of routine in cases of scirrhus of the breast. Even when no tumour can be felt, the writer is strongly of opinion that the whole breast should be removed. The only doubt which may arise is whether the axilla should be cleared out: it certainly should be explored. To re- move the pectoral glands is to err upon the Fig. 30.—From the same specimen as Fig. 29, highly magnified, to show the structure of the malignant epitlielial cells. safe side without subjecting the patient to any additional risk worth considering. When once the diagnosis of Paget's disease is definitely established, no time should be put off with the application of mercurial ointments or caustic applications. The histological appear- ances of the disease are so characteristic, that in doubtful cases a piece of the affected skin should be removed and subjected to microscopic examination. The writer is convinced that the very early stage of cancerous disease is often overlooked; any intractable excoriation or superficial ulceration of the nipple (apart from 14MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF 210 syphilis and lactation) which defies local treat- ment should be looked upon with suspicion. The nipple should be excised and subjected to microscopic examination, and if the changes above described are discovered the whole breast should be sacrificed. Diseases of the Male Breast Nearly all the aff'ections that occur in the female breast have also been met with in the male breast, in which, however, they are, with few exceptions, decidedly rare. FlO. 31.—Horizontal section through the nipple in an early stage of Paget's disease. Of the two mammillary ducts the upper ia normal while the lower is almost filled by large malignant epithelial cells. Hypertrophy of the male breast {gynoeco- mastia) diff'ers from hypertrophy of the mamma in the female in that the enlargement ceases spontaneously, and rarely, if ever, attains a size greater than the normal female breast. Unlike hypertrophy in the female the condition is frequently unilateral. The enlargement, which generally begins about the time of puberty, is due mainly to an overgrowth of the fibrous stroma, rarely to an increase in the parenchyma. It is in the latter class of case that the organ has been found capable of secreting milk when an infant is applied to it. In men towards the decline of sexual life the an increase in the fibro-fatty tissue. In many instances gynfecomastia is associated with con- genital malformations of the sexual organs; it has been observed to follow removal of the testicles especially about the period of their greatest functional activity, and from their complete destruction or atrophy from injury or disease. Should the patient desire to be rid of the deformity, the nipple may be preserved by making a curved incision at the lower margin of the breast, and then dissecting up the in- teguments from its anterior sur- face until its upper border is reached, when the organ is rapidly dissected away from the pectoral muscle. Infantile mas- titis and the mas- titis of adolescence occur with equal frequency in both sexes. Acute sup- purative mastitis, which is rare in the adult male, is usually the result of an injury. Dif- fuse chronic inter- stitial mastitis is occasionally met with, producing a general fibroid en- largement of the corpus mammse, almost invariably one breast only being affected. Some, at any rate, of these cases are tertiary syph- ilitic affections, which slowly sub- side under a course of iodide of potas- sium combined with the local inunction of a mercurial ointment. Such breasts are not in- frequently removed on the supposition that the disease is malignant. On section the corpus mammte is seen to be made up of a compact mass of tough, glistening, white fibrous tissue, dotted here and there with sago-like points which the microscope shows to be the ducts of the parenchyma. Clinically, the condition is at once distinguished from carcinoma by its slow progress, by its uniform consistence and lack of hardness, by the absence of skin involve- ment, and by the free mobility of the breast upon the pectoral muscle. Tubercle of the breasts occasionally become enlarged, due to male breast is very rare. Of the thirty-seven211 MAMMARY GLAND, DISEASES OF cases of mammary tuberculosis referred to by Delbet only two occurred in the male. According to Williams, every variety of tumour Jb'iG. 32.1—From the same specimen as Fig. 31. Less liiglily magnified. met with in the female breast has its counter- part in the male breast. As in the female, fibro-adenoma is the commonest of the simple tumours, although it is very rare. Of the car- cinomata about 2 per cent occur in the male. The tumour is almost invariably a typical cir- cumscribed scirrhus, possessing the same naked- eye and microscopic characters as in the female. The disease runs a similar course, but the pro- gress is slower. Several cases of epithelioma of the nipple have been recorded in the male. The treatment of mammary affections in the male is carried out on precisely similar lines to those in the female. Mammillaplasty.—The elevation, by operation, of a depressed nipple or mammilla. >S'ee PuERPERiUM, Pathology (Affections of Breasts, Anomalies and Defects in Conforma- tion). Manag'ement. — The care bestowed upon a sick person during the course of an ill- ness, including the giving of the various medical, 1 The writer desires to express his tlianks to the surgical staff of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and of the Chalmers Hospital for so generously placing at his disposal the greater part of the clinical and pathological material on which this article is largely founded. The material was investigated by the writer in the surgical laboratory of the University of Edinburgh, where he received many valuable suggestions from Professor Chiene. For the photo-micrographs he is indebted to Mr. Andrew Pringle of London, and to Mr. Richard Muir of the Pathological Department of the University of Edinburgh. surgical, therapeutic, and hygienic means that may be required—used especially of labour cases. See Labour, Management of ; New-born Infant {Management); Pregnancy, Management ; Puerferium, Physiology {Managemen t). Mandelic Acid. — An acid (phenylglycollie or hydroxytoluic, C^HgO,), obtained from amygdaline (the glucoside of the bitter almond) by heat and fuming hydrochloric acid. Mandel'S Test.—The formation of a precipitate on the addition of a 5 per cent solution of chromium trioxide to a solution which contains a proteid. Mandible.—The inferior maxilla. See Embryology, Human ; Mouth, In- juries AND Diseases of the Jaw (Man- dible) ; Palate (Congenital Malformations of the Mouth, Development of Face). IVIandragora.—The common mandrake (Mandrago7-a officinal-iim), whose root has a shape resembling that of the human form; it was commonly used by the ancients as a narcotic (weak tincture of the root), and the fruit was supposed to cure sterility; it contains an alkaloid (Mandragorine, Cj^HgjNOg) with the action of atropine. Its narcotic properties are referred to several times by Shakespeare (e.g. in Othello, " Nor poppy, nor mandragora, nor all the drowsy syrups "). Man ducat ion.—The action of eating, or chewing, or masticating (Lat. manducare, to chew). See Mastication. Mangfanesium.—Symbol, Mn; atomic weight, 54'52. It is official in the form of Potass II Permanganas, which is prepared by the interaction of potassium chlorate, caustic potash, and manganese dioxide. It consists of dark purple needles, soluble 1 in 20 of water. A very minute quantity of it gives a purple tinge to water. In solution it is rapidly deoxidised by organic matter, the solution changing colour to yellowish brown. Dose—1-3 grs., adminis- tered preferably in pill coated with kaolin or wax. Preparation—Liquor Potassii Perman- ganatis, a 1 per cent solution in distilled water. Dose—2-4 5. The following are some of the non-official compounds of manganese :— 1. Sodii Permanganas, contained in Condy's Fluid. 2. Calcii Permanganas, used in making mouth lotions as it has less taste than the potassium salt. 3. Zinci Permanganas, em- ployed as a lotion or injection where the astringent action of the zinc is indicated. 4. Manganesii Oxidum PrcEcijntatum, for internal administration, said to be less irritant than the permanganates. Dose—3-10 grs. 5. Manga-212 MANGANESIUM nesii Hypophosphis, a nerve stimulant. Dose— 1- 10 grs. 6. Manganesii Phosphas, insoluble. Dose—1-5 grs. 7. Manganesii Sulphas. Dose— 2- 10 grs. Potassium permanganate is largely used as a disinfectant and deodorant. It is also a mild antiseptic, and is employed in solutions of various strengths in gonorrhoea, in leucorrhoea, and as a mouth wash or gargle. A saturated solution has been recommended for application to lupus, and to foul ulcers. Crystals of permanganate are rubbed into snake-bites after incision with a knife, or a 15 per cent solution may be freely injected. The liquor has a beneficial effect in bromidrosis of the feet. As an internal remedy permanganate has largely fallen into disuse. It is said to be efficacious in amenorrhosa of func- tional origin given for three or four days before the time when the period is due. It has also been employed in the treatment of ansemia. It oxidises morphia and is used as an antidote in morphia poisoning, usually by adding it to the fluid with which the stomach is being washed out. Mangle.—A skin disease in animals re- sembling scabies in the human subject (Old Fr. mangeiie, itch); scabies ferina. M£in-Hole. — An inspection chamber (built of brick and Portland cement) by means of which drains and sewers can be examined at various points (especially over bends or junc- tions) in their course ; it should be ventilated. See Sewage and Drainage (Seivers, Man-Holes). Mania..—That form of insanity in which there is great excitement, both physical and mental, with hallucinations and delusions and much violence ; raving madness. See Insanity, Etiology ; Insanity, Pathology ; Insanity, ITS Nature and Symptoms (Types of Episodic Insanity., Mania); see also Alcoholic Insanity {Clinical Types); Alcoholism {Mania a Potu); Brain, Tumours of {Symptoms, Mental Disturb- ance) ; Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Mania); Climacteric Insanity {Clinical Forms, Mania); Delirious Mania ; Delirium Tremens ; Ec- lampsia {Sy7nptoms) ; Epilepsy {Symptoms); Epileptic Insanity ; General Paralysis {Symp- toms) ; Hypnotism ; Hysteria {Disorders of Mental State) ; Labour, Operations {Induction of Labour, Indications) ; Latah ; Malaria {Pernicious Attacks, Cerebral Forms); Ovaries, Diseases of the {Complications following Ovari- otomy, Acute Mania); Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Insanities, Mania) ; Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Mania); Sleeping Sick- ness {Symptoms). Mania, Alcoholic. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania a Potu. — Delirium tremens {q.v.); mania potatorum. Mania, Bell's.—Acute delirious mania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Types, Mania, Varieties). Mania Crap U lOSa. — Dipsomania. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania EbriOSa. — Dipsomania. See Alcoholic Insanity. Mania, Feigfned. See Malingering {Insa7iity). Mania Lactea.—Lactational insanity. See Puerperium, Pathology {Puerperal Insanity, Varieties). Mania Puerperarum. See Puer- perium, Pathology of {Puerperal Insanity). Mania sine DeliriO.—Moral or emo- tional insanity ; folie raisonnante (Fr.). ManiCOCOmlum.—An asylum for the insane (Gr. /xavt/cds, inclined to madness, and KOfjLsw, I attend to). Manicure.—The care of the hands, especially in relation to the beautifying of them ; also, the individual who practises the care of the hands and nails as a means of livelihood. See also Chiropodist ; Pedicure. Manifest Hypermetropia. See Refraction {Hypermetropia). Manikin. — A model of the whole or of part of the body, used for teaching pui'poses (anatomical, obstetrical, etc.); a phantom. Manioc.—Tapioca or cassava, the product of the Manihot utilissima {bitter cassava), or of the Manihot aipi or palmata {sweet cassava). See Diet (Vegetable, Roots and Tubers); Invalid Feeding {Convalescence, Tapioca Pudding). Manipulation.—Treatment or dia- gnosis of morbid conditions (surgical, medical, and obstetrical) by handling, e.g. in massage; a method of treating aneurysms, now rarely used. See Aneurysm {Treatment, Manipulation). ManitOU. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {American, Colorado). Mann's Method. — Intraperitoneal shortening of the round ligaments of the uterus, employed in obstinate cases of retrodisplace- ments and prolapse; each ligament is folded twice upon itself and the folded segments are fixed together by silk ligatures. Manna.—The concrete sugary exudation of a species of ash-tree {Fraxinus ormus) ; it has a taste and odour resembling honey; it is a mild laxative useful in children—dose, 1 dr. to 1 oz. It contains mannite (CgH8(0H)g) or mannitol, a hexahydric alcohol, which forms anMANNA 213 explosive substance {nitj'omannite, CgHg(N03)g) with nitric acid, and which is nearly related to the ordinary sugars ; the oxidation products of mannite are a sugar (niannose), mannonic acid, and saccharic acid; dulcite is an isomer of mannite. Msinoli—A syrupy medicine recommended in cases of pertussis; it is said to contain cane sugar, carbolic acid, oil of anise, alcohol, and water. Manometer Test.—A test for deter- mining the efficiency of the ventilation of a building, by measuring the rate at which the incoming air is travelling ; the air impinges upon a water surface, and drives the water up a bent tube, the height to which it rises indi- cating the velocity of the air. A merciirial manometer is used for measuring blood pres- sure and for other purposes in physiological experiments. Manserg^h Trap.—A variety of trap for use in drains and sewers. See Sewage and Drainage (Traps). Mantle Layer. — In the developing spinal cord several layers can be recognised—a neuroglia layer externally, an ependymal layer internally, and, between them, a layer of neuro- blasts, called the mantle layer; in the brain, the name is sometimes given to the cerebral convolutions, corpus collosum, fornix, and hip- pocampus major. Manubrium.—The upper portion (or "handle") of the sternum; also part of the malleus in the tympanic cavity. Man US.—The hand, as in such terms as manus vara (club hand), etc. See Deformities {Hand and Fingers). ManustupratiO. *S'ee Masturbation. Manyplies.—The omasum or third com- partment of the stomach of a ruminant; means, literally, manyfolds. Mara. <S'ee Balneology (.^/Wca, Abyssinia). Maragliano's Necrosis.—A change in the structure of a red blood corpuscle con- sisting in decoloration (the cell becoming a "phantom " or "shadow " corpuscle) and altera- tion in shape; it is seen in anaemia, septictemia, and in fevers such as typhus and smallpox ; it is an endoglobular degeneration. Marantic. See Marasmus. Marasmus.—An atrophy or wasting away of the body (Gr. [xapaLvw, I burn low, or waste away), due to imperfect nourishment, generally without the presence of any recognis- able organic lesion; among the varieties enu- merated are infantile marasmus, senile maras- mus, syphilitic marasmus, and marasmus of the climacteric. See Atrophy, Infantile {Syno- nyms) ; Alcohol {Indications in Diseases of Infancy) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications and SequelcB). Marc. — The material of a drug which remains after it has been exhausted by macera- tion or percolation. Marchi's Method. — A method of demonstrating degeneration in nerve fibres, de- pending upon the black staining of the white sheath when placed in a solution of chrome salt with osmic acid. See Physiology, Nervous System {Co7'd, Conducting Paths, Degeneration, Wallerian). MarCOr. — Emaciation; macies. See Atrophy. Mar^Chal Test.—A test for bile pig- ment in urine; dilute tincture of iodine is allowed to run on to the surface of urine in a test-tube, when, if bilirubin be present, a green ring appears where the liquids meet, due to the oxidation of the bilirubin into biliverdin. See Urine, Pathological Changes {Bile Pigment). Marem ma.—The low-lying marshy lands near the sea, especially on the west coast of Northern Italy; the malarious exhalations from such lands. Mare's Milk. See Invalid Feeding {Koumiss) ; Milk {Physiological). Maretin.—An antipyretic powder, car- baminic-acid-meta-tolylhydrazide, prescribed in doses of 4 to 8 grains in rheumatism, influenza, and tuberculosis ; its value and safety have been questioned. Marey'S Law.—The statement that a pulse of high tension is a slow pulse. IViargarine.—This name is given to all substances, whether compounds {e.g. a mixture of palmitine and stearine) or otherwise, prepared in imitation of butter, and whether mixed with butter or not; there are strict regulations for its sale. The name also belongs to trimargarate of glyceryl, found in butter. Marg'inai.—Relating to the margin or border, e.g. a marginal convolution of the brain, marginal insertion of the placenta (where the lower margin of the placenta is within the lower segment of the uterus), etc. Marg^inate.—Having a margin; used of the placenta in which the foetal membranes are inserted nearer the centre of the fcetal surface than usual, leaving a margin uncovered all round. Marg^O.—A margin, edge, or border, e.g.214 MARGO margo hepatis (margin of the liver), margo orbitalis (margin of the orbit), margo pupillaris (margin of the pupil), etc. Marg^osa Bark. See Neem Bark. Marie's Disease.—A name given to acromegaly, and also to pulmonary osteo-arthro- pathy, to hereditary cerebellar ataxia, and to spondylosis rhizomelica. Marien bad. See Balneology {Austria); Mineral Waters {All-aline Sulphated Waters). Mariotte'S Experiment. — An ex- perimental means of demonstrating the presence of a blind spot in the retina. See Physiology, Senses {Vision, Formation of Pictw^es on the Retina). Marjolin'S Ulcer.—An ulcer, begin- ning in a cicatrix, malignant in nature, and characterised by wart-like growths. Marjoram.—A plant {Origanum Vulgare) yielding a non-ofiicinal drug, sometimes used as a diaphoretic and emmenagogue. MariiOZ. See Balneology {France, Aix- les-Bains). Marmorek's Serum.—A serum ob- tained by the inoculation of animals with strep- tococci, and used in cases of streptococcic in- fection (erysipelas, septicaemia, suppurative peri- tonitis, etc.) in the human subject. See Ery'- siPELAS {Treatment, General); Therapeutics, Serum Therapy {Antistreptococcus Serum). Marriag'e.—The married state has an influence upon certain medical and hygienic questions, such as gonorrhoea, consanguinity, insanity, alcoholism, skin diseases, nervous dis- eases, impotence, sterility, etc., which is well set forth in Senator and Kaminer's work, Kranl-heite7i und Ehe, of which there is a translation into English {Health and Disease in relation to Marriage and the Married State, 1904). See also Civil Incapacity; Deafmut- ISM ; Insanity, Etiology {Prevention, Restriction of Marriage); Lung, Tuberculosis op {Prog- nosis. Marriage); Vital Statistics {Pojmlation, Marriages). Marrol.—A food preparation said to con- tain ox marrow and malt, etc. Marrow.—A fatty substance (red or yellow) found in the medullary canal of a long bone and in the spaces of a flat bone, and having as its probable function the formation of red blood corpuscles; it has, therefore, been used in the treatment of anaemia, etc. See An.emia, Pernicious {Treatment); Chlorosis {Pathology, State of Bone Marrow); Leucocyth^mia {Morbid Anatomy); Physiology, Blood {Source of Con- stituents, Bone Marrow) ; Pyemia ; Rheumatism, Chronic {Morbid Anatomy). Marru bi U m.—Horehound {Marrubium Vulgare), containing a volatile oil and a bitter principle {marrubi7i), is often used in coughs and catarrhal states. Marsh's Apparatus. See Toxi- cology {Chronic Arsenical Poisoning, Chemical Test). Marsh's Disease. — Exophthalmic goitre. See Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre). Marsh Fever. See Malaria. Marsh Gas.—Methane, CH^ {q.v.). Marsh's Test.—The zinc and sulphuric acid test for arsenic. See Toxicology {Chronic Arsenical Poisoning, Tests). Marshall Hall's Disease.— The hydrocephaloid state as seen in cases of infantile atrophy (from diarrhoea, etc.). Marshall Hall's Method. See Asphyxia {Resuscitation, Methods). Marsupialisation.—When, in cases of abdominal section, a cystic ovarian tumour, or an ectopic gestation-sac, or some other hollow structure cannot be completely removed, it is usual to bring it to the opening in the abdominal wall and stitch it into it; in this way, a pouch communicating with the exterior but not with the peritoneal cavity is formed. The name] is derived from the marsupium or pouch in which certain of the Mammalia (kangaroo, opossum, etc.) carry their prematurely born young. Martig^ny-Ies-Bains. See Balne- ology {France, Calcareous Waters). Martin's Bandage.—A rubber band- age used in cases of varicose veins and varicose ulcers to exercise compression. See Bandages {Martin's); Ulcers and Ulceration {Treatment, Ambulatory). MaSChale.—The axilla (Gr. fxaaxa^r], the armpit); the word enters into the composition of such terms as 7naschaladenitis (inflammation of the axillary glands), maschaloncus (tumour of the axilla), and maschalypjeridrosis (excessive axillary perspiration). Masked Disease.—A malady, the exact nature of which is concealed by accidentally associated symptoms ; larvated disease. Mask-1 ike Face.—A peculiar, ex- pressionless facies seen in marked cases of myasthenia gravis. See Myasthenia Gravis {Symjj torn atology). Mason's Trap. — The Dipstone trap215 MASON'S TRAP used in drain-construction; it is not self- cleansing. See Sewage and Drainage. Masque des femmes en - ^eintes. — A peculiar discoloration of the face often seen in pregnancy; chloasma uteri- num. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Changes in the Skin); Syphilis {Parasyphilis, Diagnosis). Ma,SS£l.—An aggregation of particles form- ing a body which can be moulded, e.g. the massa from which pills are made; massce are official in the U.S. Pharmacopoeia, e.g. massa hydrar- gyri or blue mass. Ma.SSSlg'e- — The process of rubbing, kneading, pinching, pressing, tapping, and stroking of the skin, muscles, and joints of the body, in order to pi'oduce flexibility and suppleness of these parts, to stimulate nutrition, to remove swellings, to diminish chronic inflam- mation and congestion, etc. Massage forms part of the Weir-Mitchell treatment and of medical and Swedish gymnastics. Percussion or tapping movements constitute taj)otement; pressing or squeezing movements are known as petrissage; when friction is used the process is 7nassage a friction; and light or stroking movements are called effleurage. Massage is used in a number of paralytic or paretic con- ditions, in neurasthenia and hysteria, in neuralgia and neuritis, in rheumatism and gout, in constipation, in strains, and in many other maladies associated with defective nutrition. A man who practises massage is termed a masseur and a woman a masseuse. Sometimes the patient makes active movements, at other times he remains passive, and in some cases he supplements the manipulations of the masseur by resistance-movements. See also Alcoholism {Treatment); Ankle-Joint, Region of, Injuries, {Sprains, Treatment); Appetite {Increase, Causes); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Treatment of Paralysis); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Treatment, External Applications); Chorea {Treatment during Convalescence); Cicatrices {Treatment) ; Constipation {Treatment); Ear, Middle, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Treatment); Fractures {Treatment); Liver, Diseases of {Perihepatitis, Treatment in Con- valescence) : Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of Breast, Mammary Engorgement, Treatment); Tabes Dorsalis {Treatment, Massage and Gym- nastics) ; Ulcers and Ulceration {Treatment) \ Uterus, Displacements of the {Pathological Anteflexion, Treatment). Ma.SS£li Disea.se.—A disease occurring among the Massai natives in East Africa and supposed to be due to the guinea-worm {Dra- ctmiculus medinensis). See Filariasis {Filaria medinensis). M asseter.—The chewing muscle of the cheek. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth, Mastication). Masseur. See Massage. Masseuse. See Massage. MasSOtherapy.—The use of massage in the treatment of disease. Mastalgfia. — Pain, especially of a neuralgic kind, in the breast; mastodynia (Gr. /Atto-Tos, the breast, aAyos, pain). Mast Cells. — Leucocytes containing coarse basophile granules (Ehrlich's y-granules); they are rounded or ovoid in shape, have a large structureless nucleus distinguished with difficulty from the cell protoplasm, and contain coarse granules. They are not normal con- stituents of human blood but are found in leucocythsemia (myelogenous type), in per- nicious anfemia, etc.; when found in the blood they are called hBemic mast cells to distinguish them from those found in the tissues. See Blood (White Corpihscles, Basophilous Leucocytes); Eosinophilia ; Leucocyth^mia ; Skin, Anatomy AND Physiology {Corium Cells). MasthelCOSiS. — Mammary ulceration (Gr. /Aao-Tos, breast, and e'AKtoo-t?, ulceration). Mastic or Mastich. — A resinous exudation from Pistacia Lentiscus, not now official; formerly employed as a tooth-stopping, to arrest bleeding from leech-bites, in bron- chitis and diarrhoea, and to give a pleasant odour to the breath. It contains a resin (?»as- tici7i, C2QH32O) as well as an acid resin {mastichic acid, CflHjgOg); it is used in making micro- scopical preparations. Mastication. See Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Digestion in the Mouth); Cheek, Fissure of {Symjytoms, Imperfect Mastication); Fifth Nerve, Affections of {Paralysis, Spasm of Muscles of Masticatio7i). Mastig^OphorOUS. — Flagellated (Gr. IxdcTTi^, a whip, ^ope'co, I wear). See Parasites {Protozoa, Mastigoj^hora). Mastitis.—Inflammation of the breast. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Inflamma- tory Affections); New-born Infant {Diseases, Mastitis Neonatorum) ; Puerperium, Pathology {Affections of the Mamma). MastO-.—In compound words masto- (Gr. /Aao-Tos, the breast) means relating to the mammary gland—e.g. masto-carcinonui (cancer aff'ecting the breast), mastology (the study of the normal and pathological states of the breast), mastorrhagia (h£emorrhage or, sometimes, a flow of milk from the breast), mastoscirrhus (scirrhous cancer of the breast), mastosyrinx (fistula of the breast), etc.MASTODYNIA 216 Mastodynia. — Pain in the breast; mastalgia or mastopathy. See Mammary Gland, Diseases of (Neuralgia). Mastoid. — Literally, mastoid means breast-shaped or nipple-like; the name is generally reserved for a part and for a process of the temporal bone {inastoid portion, process), for the cavity it contains {mastoid cavity), for the cells in it {mastoid cells), for inflammation with supjjnration in these cells {mastoid abscess), for the operative interference pursued in such cases [mastoid ope7-ation), and for an opening in the bone for the passage of a vein (mastoid forame7i). Compound words are formed with mastoid- as their basis, such as mastoideocentesis (perforation of the mastoid for disease), mastoid- otomy (incision of the mastoid antrum or cells), etc. See Brain, Surgery of {Cerebral Abscess, Diagnosis); Ear, Examination of {Anatomy and Physiology); Ear, Middle, Acute Inflam- mation (Causes); Ear, Middle, Chronic Sup- puration (Diseases of the Mastoid Process); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology (Lymphatic Glands, Mastoid); Orbit, Diseases OF (Thrombosis of Cavernous Si7ius); Skin- Grafting (Suitable Cases, Mastoid Fistuloe). Mastoiditis. — Inflammation of the mastoid cells. See Ear, Middle, Acute and Chronic Inflammation (Diseases of the Mastoid Process). The name Bezold's Mastoiditis has been given to cases in which the apex of the process is destroyed and in which there is a tendency to the formation of a cervical abscess. Mastopexy.—An operation for the fixation of a pendulous or displaced breast (Gr. /xao-Tos, breast, TreKw, I clip). Masturbation. See also Anthelmin- tics (Symptoms of Thread- Worms) ; Circumci- sion ; Epilepsy (Etiology); Scrotum and Tes- ticle, Diseases of (Impotence); Spermatorrhcea ; Sterility ; Vice (Sexual Perversions). Masturbation is the artificial excitement and gratification of sexual passion. It is most fre- quently met with in youth, especially in boys about puberty, but some pronounced mastur- bators are married persons of both sexes, who masturbate notwithstanding full facilities for normal intercourse. Occasionally in very young children a kind of sexual orgasm is induced by very slight irritation, such as is entailed in handling the parts or by phimosis ; while this is not true masturbation, too much care and attention cannot be paid to the detection and correction of this habit, as there is no doubt that it predisposes to masturbation in later years. Masturbation in women is more frequent than is commonly supposed. It is associated not rarely with the nervous irritability, wayward fancies, and nondescript ailments of hysterical girls, and the habits, amusements, and literature of certain classes of society are too apt to en- courage the vice. About the age of thirty-three, when the chance of marriage is getting faint, and again about the climacteric, some people experience great sexual irritability, of which this practice is too often the result (Yellowlees). Not infrequently, however, the habit is more or less consciously acquired at or about the age of puberty. The following extract of a letter received by the writer from a yoiuig lady who complained of general depression and slight leucorrhoea, is strikingly characteristic :—" I was so sorry I did not tell you something yesterday which has been weighing on my mind. When I was small I gave way to a bad habit, and I find it more and more diflicult to give up; I had no idea it would do me any harm till I grew older, and then my common-sense told me it would. Would you let me know what you think about it when you write to me in London ? If it really is the cause, I suppose nothing else can be done, and all I can hope for is to die as quickly as possible." This extract illustrates well some of the bad results of the habit—a state of mental depression which is exceedingly difficult, and in some cases well-nigh impossible to eradicate. The same condition in boys in- duces in the early stages, not so much a state of depression, as a shifty unstraightforward ap- pearance which may be very characteristic. In either sex and at any age, when the habit is persisted in and allowed to dominate the indi- vidual, moral and mental degeneration inevitably follows, and progresses, slowly it may be, but surely to mental dissolution. Treatment.—While it is easy to formulate correct laws as to treatment, it is comparatively rare to find them effectively applied. It is probably, as a rule, unwise to treat confessions from appai'ently healthy individuals in too serioTis a manner. We should rather point out to them the undesirable results which must inevitably result from a continued gratification of an animal instinct in an irregular manner; they should at the same time be directed to get their minds thoroughly occupied with other and more wholesome subjects. The indulgence in muscular exercises of a kind congenial to the patient, and to an extent sufficient to induce physiological fatigue, is one powerful remedy in this direction. Care must, however, be taken in the recommendation, e.g. the patient before referred to could not cycle as the movement was a prejudicial one. In all cases, then, greater benefit will accrue from this line of treatment than by any other which looks too closely to the merely moral aspects of the question. In addition, ordinary tonic remedies directed to impress the general muscular relaxation and nervous weakness will be of great service. With regard to local treatment, few woi'ds must suffice. Counter-irritation, as by blistering fluid.217 MASTURBATION or a strong antimonial ointment applied to the penis and fore-skin may be useful, but there is always the risk of fresh irritation being set up by the after sensation of itching in the healing process. In boys at school it is a good plan to sew up the trousers' pockets. As to drugs, bromides, either alone or in conjunction with cannabis indica or other sedative, may be service- able, but on the whole more is to be expected from general tonic remedies. (See also " Vice.") Match-Making. See Toxicology {Phosphorus); Trades, Dangerous {Phosphorus and Lucifer Match-Making). Mat6.—Paraguay tea, prepared from the leaves of Ilex paragiiayensis, contains caffeine (J per cent). Materia Medica.—The science which treats of the characters of drugs, of their preparation, their action, their use, and their dosage. See Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; and under the various drugs themselves {e.g. Arsenicum, etc.). Materies Morbi. — The substantial cause of a disease. Maternal Impressions. See also Heredity {Telegony). Historical Note. — The notion that emotions and mental states of the mother during preg- nancy may so affect the foetus in her womb as to impress on it or in it structural alterations which closely simulate the maternal impressions, is of great antiquity and of practically world- wide distribution. At first it was not advanced as a theory of causation of monstrosities, but simply as a means of explaining the differences of colour of the skins of the young of men and animals. For instance, the reader needs scarcely to be reminded of the narrative of Jacob and the peeled white strakes on the rods which were put before the flocks when they conceived at the water-troughs; " the flocks brought forth ring-straked, speckled, and spotted." The theory or belief was also con- veniently advanced to explain the birth of a black child to a white mother and a putative white father: the mother had been lookins: at the picture of a Moor ! In the next place, the notion was accepted as the sokition of the origin of mother's marks or nsevi; that Hippocrates held this belief is, however, doubtful, for the treatise in which the statement occurs {De Superfoetatione) is generally regarded now as the work of another hand. Later, the maternal- impression theory was accepted as a possible explanation of the birth of hairy infants—the mother had been intently gazing during her pregnancy at the picture of John the Baptist in his hairy garment. Finally, it came to be applied, and in most ingenious ways, to account for almost every kind of anomaly, malformation, and monstrosity. During the sixteenth, seven- teenth, and eighteenth centuries the idea of the potency of maternal impressions underwent some interesting expansions and variations. It was thought, for instance, that if the mother at the moment of the impression touched a part of her body the foetus in her womb would show at birth the mark on the part of its body corre- sponding to that touched by her; this was chirapsy, and the woman was advised to be wise and always touch a part which was naturally concealed by the clothes! But it was also believed that the impression might sometimes be counteracted altogether; and Svvammerdam, in 1672, related how a clever woman, who had unfortunately seen a negro in her pregnancy, in order to save her infant from being black, washed herself in warm water, with the result, nearly if not quite satisfactory, that the infant was born white all over save in the spaces between the fingers and toes and in the grooves of the face, places which the mother's ablutions had presumably not touched ! Doubtless the alleged power of maternal mental impressions had reached its highest level when Thomas Bartholin made the statement that a lady had conceived a child by her husband who had been absent from her for four years through the influ- enceof imagination ("sola imaginationisvirtute"). The eighteenth century witnessed the first serious and successful criticisms of the impres- sion theory. In a work published in the first instance anonymously (1727), Blondel dealt the notion of the potency of the mother's mind over her infant's body a deadly blow. Very skilfully did he marshal his facts; and with no small degree of humour, and with now and then some biting sarcasm, did he state his arguments and refute the assertions of those whom he delighted to call " imaginationists." He first appealed to experience., and showed that impressions often occurred which were not followed by marks or anomalies of the foetus, and that deformities were met with in cases in which no impression was alleged ; second, he invoked reason, which seemed to say that since a woman could not by thinking about it mark her own body, it was not likely that she would be able to do so in the case of the infant in her womb; and, third, he brought forward the anatomical arguments, that there was no nervous communication between the mother and foetus along which impressions could pass, and that there was no direct circulation of blood from the one to the other. The spirit of criticism thus infused into the subject by Blondel was re- inforced by many of the writers who followed him; and Bellet, Monro, and Haller emphasised and at the same time established on more scientific groimds the main arguments which had been brought forward. Nevertheless, theMATERNAL IMPRESSIONS 218 nineteenth century opened with the question of maternal impressions still unsolved : there were some who believed implicitly in the power of the mother's mind over her infant's body; there were others whose disbelief was complete; and there were those who took an intermediate position, and gave a partial adhesion to the theory, endeavouring to reconcile the traditional belief with the spirit of modern scientific inquiry. Those who held the intermediate position ex- plained the results, not by an immediate mental effect, but by pressure brought to bear upon the foetus through uterine contractions ; they also were forced in some cases to admit a maternal or foetal predisposing cause which made it possible for an impression to be effective. It is, however, a striking fact, that during the nineteenth century the teratologists—those who have scientifically investigated the causes of monstrosities and foetal morbid states—have almost without exception rejected the theory of maternal impressions; alongside of this we have to take notice of the extraordinary rejuvenation of the ancient doctrine among the obstetricians of the United States of America. So that it must be said that the nineteenth, like the eighteenth century, has closed with the subject of maternal impressions still a debated, if not perhaps a debatable one. Illustrative Cases.—The following cases, wliich were all brought under the notice of the writer, will serve as instances of some of the forms that the belief in maternal impressions may take. There is the case of the nervous woman who had been frightened during the early months of her pregnancy by a friend who had thrown a frog at her; she gave birth to an anencephalic foetus; and again in the next pregnancy the result was an anencephalic infant—the anencepiialic monstrosity being, it is asserted, distinctly frog-like. There is the case of the two-and-a-half months' pregnant woman importuned by a deaf and dumb pedlar ; she refused to buy any of his wares, whereupon he followed her and struck her on the back; she brought forth a child who was and is deaf and dumb, although, it is added, she had not anticipated any harm to her infant. There is the case of the child born minus the little, ring, and middle fingers of the left hand ; the mother when about three months pregnant had seen another of her children A'ery nearly amputate the little, ring, and middle fingers of his left hand while playing with a wood-chopper. There is the case of the mother who had been much impressed during her pregnancy |by the story of the birth of an infant about whose sex thei'c was some doubt; she herself gave birth to a child suffering from ectopia vesicae and epispadias. There is, finally, the case of a woman who during her pregnancy was much alarmed by being told that she had grave heart disease; her child has turned out to be an imbecile. The list of examples might be pro- longed, for hairy nsevus, hare-lip, exomphalos, congenital blindness, and even united twins, have all been ascribed to maternal impressions; but the recital of these stories can hardly serve any useful purpose. Estimate of the present Position of the Maternal Impressions Controversy.—It may well be said about this theory that it is wonderful alike in its wide extension in time and space, and in its firm hold upon the minds of both profession and laity. To those medical men who are opposed to it, it has shown itself most disappointingly vital; to those who have wished to demonstrate its truth it has been most strikingly destitute of scientific proof. In its support is a marvel- lous mass of evidence of the post hoc ergo propter hoc kind ; arrayed against it are the scientific theories of biology which have been gradually and laboriously built up, more especially in the century which has closed. To the student of antenatal pathology the theory of maternal impressions has been a misfortune and a hin- drance. Many instructive cases of foetal disease and deformity have been practically lost to science, the observer having been so occupied in tracing a resemblance to some bird, beast, or fish, as to have been quite blind to or for- getful of the evident and manifest anatomical and pathological details of the specimen. In this sense the theory has been the grave in which a great deal of foetal pathology has been buried. It has nearly always happened that when the maternal-impression idea has been given prominence, exact accounts of anatomical dissections have been markedly absent. In this way its influence upon scientific medicine has been a maleficent one. But, it may be said, this retarding effect upon the progress of antenatal pathology may be admitted, and yet there may be truth in the theory, some small degree of truth at least. Well, in order to centralise our knowledge on this point let us discuss the matter under two headings or questions. First, does a definite impression upon a pregnant woman's mind often or ever cause a defect in the foetus closely re- sembling the thing producing the impression? and, second, has the state of the mother's mind during gestation any effect upon her unborn infant's development 1 The first question must, in the writer's opinion, be answered in the negative. The close scrutiny of the cases which have been adduced as proofs of the potency of maternal impressions shows them to have been accidental coincidences and not the results of the alleged cause. Their great number is nothing in favour of the view, for, however many they are, they are still far fewer than the cases in which no effect followed the incidence of an impression. Incidentally, I may remark that I have had in my own practice several cases which seemed to contain219 MATERNAL IMPRESSIONS all the necessary elements for the production of an effective impression if it were at all possible, and yet no such effect was in any case produced. Again, no scientific explanation of the modus operandi of such impressions has ever been advanced. Doubtless the mother's mind may be more sensitive to impressions during pregnancy, but this does not in the least degree explain how the foetal body can reflect like a mirror the influences acting upon the mother's mind or body. Further, it is well known from the study of embryology that all the great formative events of embryonic life are already nearly complete by the sixth week of gestation; and it is doubtful whether many women know definitely that they are pregnant at the second month. Teratology gives us no grounds for the belief that such a monstrosity as anencephaly can be produced at any time in antenatal life after the second month. With regard to the second question, there can be no doubt that prolonged or strongly- marked mental states of the mother may affect the development of the foetus in her uterus. That such can produce abortion is not denied ; and that, short of producing miscarriage, they can also lead through vascular and nutritive disturbances to irregularities in embryo-genesis is probable. Times of great national distress have sometimes been followed, as was the siege of Paris in the Franco-Prussian War, by the birth of a large number of infants showing bodily and mental stigmata. But it must also be borne in mind that in addition to the mental perturbation present at such times we have also got to take into account and allow for the bad food, the defective hygiene, and the fre- quent epidemics which prevail. Probably the terror and anxiety of a siege are less important factors in influencing intra-uterine development than the famine and pestilence. Again, the progress of the investigation of the problems of antenatal pathology has yielded and is still yielding results which go to prove that foetal diseases and also embryonic disturbances (causing monstrosities) are produced by the same causes as lead to disease and morbid processes at any other time of life; among these causes the influence of the mind may be assigned a place, but not an important place. In conclusion, it may be added that it has sometimes been stated that the state of the father's mind at the moment of conception has some influence in de- termining the future condition of his offspring —a paternal impression. It need only be said that there is less evidence in favour of the potency of a paternal than of a maternal mental impression. The theory has also invaded another region of discussion and debate which has been prominently before the medical profession lately—the question of telegony. By telegony is meant the alleged influence of a previous sire upon the offspring of the same mother by a later sire. It has been thought that the mother's mind acts upon her later progeny and imprints upon them reminiscent traces of like- ness to the first sire. Another view maintains that in the act of coitus or during pregnancy other ovules in the ovary beside that which is impregnated share in the paternal influence. The question of telegony — that mysterious wireless telegraphy of antenatal life—is still siob judice. Maternity Hospital. —A lying in hospital, or hospital for the care of parturient and puerperal patients and new-born infants; it has been proposed to have special hospitals {Pre-Maternity Jlospitals) for the care of preg- nant women and for the management of the diseases incident to the pregnant state. See Labour, Management. iVIatiCae Folia.—The leaves of Artanthe elongata or Fiper angtistifoliwm are not now officinal in the British Pharmacopoeia; they have been used for their styptic eifects {e.g. in the bleeding from leech-bites) and also in catarrhal conditions {e.g. gonorrhoea). They contain a bitter principle {maticin), an essential oil, artanthic acid, etc.; and there used to be an official infusum (dose, 1-4 fl. oz.); the dose of the powdered leaves is from | to 1 dr. See Astringents. M at lock Bat h. See Balneology (Great Britain, Thermal Waters). Matrix.—A mould, e.g. the tissue or organ which gives form to another structure which it contains or supports (the matrix of a nail or a tooth) ; or intercellular substance, e.g. the matrix of cartilage or of bone ; or (now rare) the uterus. MattOid.—A person on the border-line of insanity; he may, according to Lombroco, be of high intellectual cultivation, but he is a monomaniac (Gr. /xaratos, foolish). Maturation.—The changes which occur in an ovum to prepare it for fertilisation, and which consist in the formation and expulsion of the polar bodies and in the differentiation of the female pronucleus. See Fcetus and Ovum, Development of {Ripiening of Ovum). The term is also used of the full formation (matura- tion) of an abscess or of a cataract. Maturity.—The state or stage of being ripe or fully formed, e.g. the foetus at the ninth month of antenatal life or the genital organs in adult life. See Medicine, Forensic {Infanticide, Signs of Maturity) ; Menstruation {Puberty). MatZOl.—A proprietary mixture of cod- liver oil with matzoon {q.v.), etc. MatZOOn.—A fermented milk, made byMATZOON 220 the action of a ferment (exact nature unknown) upon sterilised cow's milk; it has been used, diluted with water, for infant feeding. See Milk ; Infant Feeding ; etc. Maunoir's Hydrocele.— A cystic growth, often congenital, occurring in the neck, behind the angle of the jaw; hydrocele of the neck. Mauthner's Test.—A test for colour vision consisting of a number of bottles filled with different pigments. See Colour Vision {Methods of Testing, Pigment Tests). Maw - Worms. — Thread -worms. See Parasites {Nematodes, Ascaris). Maxilla.—The jaw-bone, upper or lower. See Mouth, Injuries and Diseases of the Mouth and Jaws ; Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Maxillary Sinus). Maydl'S Operation.—The implanta- tion of the ureters into the rectum in cases of ectopia vesicfe. See Bladder {Extroversion). Mayhem.—A legal term meaning the infliction of bodily injury upon a person so as to render him less able to defend himself; it is connected etymologically with maim. Mayol.—A preparation used for preserving meat and said to consist of alcohol (ethyl and methyl), boracic acid, glycerine, and fluoride of ammonium. Mayonaise. See Invalid Feeding {Cookery in Diabetes, Mayonaise Sauce). MazalysiS.—Retention of the placenta (Gr. fxa^a, a cake), as opposed to mazolysis, separation of the placenta. Mazzoni's Corpuscles.—Peripheral end organs of sensory nerves, resembling those of Krause. Mead. See Alcohol {Spirits, Alcoholic Animal Prodwcts). Meals. See Diet ; Ewald's Test Meal ; Food ; Infant Feeding ; Physiology {Food and Digestioti) ■ etc. Means.l See Vital Statistics {Determina- tion of Longevity, Mean Age at Death, etc). Measles. Prevalence ...... 220 Type and Fatality . . . .221 Spread and Infectivitt .... 221 Incubation and Course .... 222 Analysis of Symptoms-- Ervption...... 223 Catarrh . . . . . .223 Glandular Affection . . . .224 Temperature . ... 224 Analysis of Symptoms {contd.)— Pulse and Respiration . . .224 Deliriu,m...... 224 Aberrant Forms ..... 224 The Pulmonary .... 225 The Toxic 225 Complications 225 Pathology . . . . . .226 Prognosis 227 Diagnosis ...... 227 Treatment ...... 228 See also Brain, Inflammations {Acute Enceph- alitis, Etiology); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Acute, Etiology); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Exanthe- matoiis Conju7ictivitis); Disinfection {QuMran- tine); Epidemiology {Seasonal Fluctuations); Foot and Mouth Disease {Diagnosis in Human Subject); Fourth Disease ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Simple En- docarditis, Etiology); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases); Infection {Periods of Ab- serice from School); Leucocytosis {Leucopenia); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Pi-edisposing Factors, Bronchitis); Meningitis, Tuberculous {Eti- ology) ; Meteorology' {Seasonal Prevalence of Disease); Nephritis {Etiology); Nose, Post- nasal Adenoid Growths {Etiology); Nose, Ac- cessory Sinuses, Inflammation of {Etiology); Purpura {Symptomatic, Infectious); Rubella ; Scarlet Fever {Diagnosis); Typhus Fever {Diagnosis). Synonyms : Morbilli ; Fr. Rougeole ; Ger. Maseru. Measles is a specific infective fever, attended with a characteristic macular eruption, and widespread catarrh, affecting chiefly the respira- tory, nasal, and ocular mucous membranes. Prevalence.—Measles may be said to be endemic in most parts of the world, though by no means equally prevalent. It is liable to sudden epidemic extensions, the recurrence of which in certain European communities, at any rate, is characterised by striking periodicity. In isolated communities the disease will occa- sionally die out altogether, but after the lapse of some years, during which a susceptible population has been growing up, the importa- tion of a fresh case is liable to result in a fresh outburst which may rapidly assume pandemic proportions. This was well illustrated in the case of the Faroe Islands, into which, after an immunity from measles lasting sixty-five years, the disease was reimported in the year 1846, with the result that in the course of five months more than three-fourths of the entire population were attacked. And the same thing in even more marked degree was seen in Fiji in the year 1875, when the disease was imported into the country, it is supposed, for the first time. In this instance so extensive was the outbreak, and so rapid its spread, that more than one-fourthMEASLES 221 of the population actually died of the disease within three months. The existence of measles is apparently un- influenced by climate. Outbreaks have been observed to spread as readily in cold countries like Iceland, Norway, and Lapland, as in the Tropics. It attacks the black races equally with the white. No special liability attaches to sex and very little to age. The reason why adults are less often attacked than children is that most grown persons have already had the disease in childhood, and have thus acquired protection. In the extensive insular epidemics referred to, in which the disease fell upon an unprotected community, both children and adults were attacked promiscuously, although it was noted in both instances that young infants and very old people were comparatively seldom affected. The same relative immunity of infants under six months is noticeable in this country. In England the records show that predisposition to measles increases from birth until the fourth year, when it is at its height; after which it falls rapidly. Considerably more than half the measles attacks occur in the first five years of life, and seven-eighths at ages under ten. In this country, where measles is endemic, a partial increase of susceptibility is apparent from about the age of puberty up to twenty or twenty-five years, owing, no doubt, to a progressive weaken- ing of the protection conferred by a previous attack. After this age the incidence again diminishes, apparently in virtue of a natural diminution of susceptibility which attaches to advancing age. Measles very rarely occurs in persons over forty. In the large, densely populated towns of the United Kingdom measles is an important factor in the mortality, and according to the Registrar- General's returns there seems to have been no improvement in this respect during the last half- century. In London during the period 1841-90 the average number of deaths from measles was 595 per million of the population, and during the last few years it has been even higher, while in some of the large manufacturing towns in the north and Midlands this number has been considerably exceeded. In England and Wales measles is responsible for about 13,000 deaths annually, and next to infantile diarrhoea, con- tributes more largely to the zymotic mortality than any other disease. Measles prevalence markedly varies with season. For the large towns of this country the monthly curve exhibits a double rise—one in the spring and early summer, the other in the winter. In London the maxima fall in June and December, the minima in February and September. In certain of the northern towns, as is the case in Paris, Berlin, and many con- tinental cities, both the prevalence and fatality of the disease are greater in the spring than during the winter; but the reverse is true of London. In addition to this seasonal cycle, in communities where measles is endemic, periods characterised by epidemic extension of the disease tend to recur at short though strikingly regular intervals. In the towns of Great Britain the interval is usually about two years, though often six months more or less. The regularity with which this extension recurs is doubtless to be explained by the gradual accumulation of susceptible persons, and the seasonal cycle. Further, as has been pointed out by Whitelegge, there is clear evidence of the existence of larger waves of increased measles prevalence, attended with higher mortality, the maxima of which in the case of several English towns have been separated by intervals of about twenty years. These waves are regarded by Whitelegge as evidence of the progressive intensification of the measles virus, and he speaks of them as major epidemics as opposed to the biennial extensions which might be likened to ripples on their surface. Type and Fatality.—All records, both clinical and statistical, tend to show that in the past the type of the disease in different epidemics has been subject to wide variation, although in respect to individual outbreaks the maintenance of a uniform type of attack through suc- cessive cases is more often observed in the case of measles than with either scarlet fever or diphtheria. The fatality of measles when epidemic is mainly determined by the proportion of young children amongst those attacked, the coldness of the season, poverty, and a defective hygiene, of which overcrowding and inadequate ventilation are undoubtedly the most important factors. Although epidemics characterised by malig- nant intensity were not infrequent in the past, the death-rate of any local outbreak in this country is rarely as high as 10 per cent at the present day, and generally a good deal less. During an extensive outbreak at Sunderland in 1885, however, the case mortality reached the alarming height of 29 •! per cent. The death-rate of 6 "7 per cent recorded by Dr. Theodore Thomson for an urban population of 35,000 persons, where the notification of measles was in force, may probably be regarded as a fairly representative one. The percentage fatality of 12,273 cases of measles admitted into the Glasgow Fever Hospital during the thirty years from 1870-99 was 8'8, but it varied in different years between 12*2 and 2 "2 per cent. At Burton-on-Trent, accord- ing to Dr. Killick Millard, the fatality of measles from January 1894 to May 1900 ranged in different years between I'51 and 3 "5 per cent, the aggregate mortality of the 8311 cases being 2-2 per cent. Spread and Infectivity.—Direct contact with a previous case of measles is undoubtedly the most important factor in the spread of theMEASLES disease. Although well-authenticated instances of its propagation through the indirect agency of infected articles, such as clothes, books, toys, and furniture, are recorded from time to time, the contagium of measles does not lend itself to this method of transmission, as its activity is rapidly destroyed by natural agencies. It is only under conditions of aerial stagnation, when protected from the katalytic action of direct light, that fomites are likely to retain their infectivity for any length of time. On this account it is usually jjracticable to limit the spread of the disease under circumstances in which it has been possible to segregate every person who has already become infected. Un- fortunately, this is rarely practicable, because the disease is highly infectious in the early pre-eruptive stage. Consequently, when the conditions are favourable to intimate personal contact, as is the case in schools, numbers of the children are likely to have become infected before the presence of measles has been even suspected. With the possible exception of whooping- cough, measles is probably the most infectious of the specific fevers. Its extreme infectivity is well illustrated by the epidemics in the Fiji and Faroe Islands already referred to. In a localised outbreak in a small village near Tiibingen, Dr. Pfeilsticker reports that 185 children were attacked out of a total of 196, who had not previously had the disease. At a children's party given by a friend of the writer, 21 out of 22 children who were present contracted measles from one staying in the house, in whom the attack did not declare itself until the following morning. Out of the 22 children, the only one who escaped had previously suffered from the disease. Such instances might be multiplied. The question as to whether the compulsory notification of measles can be expected to control its spread amongst an urban popiilation has been a source of considerable discussion amongst medical oflicers of health. Without the co-operation of the school authorities, it is clear that any attempts in this direction must be futile, so great are the facilities for the transmission of the disease during school attendance. However, by the rigid enforcement of the following measures it has been found practi- cable to exercise considerable control over the extension of the disease. (1) Compulsory notification of the disease by the medical attendant and by the house- holder. (2) Prompt notification to the sanitary authority by the schoolmaster of the occur- rence of a case amongst the scholars, and by the sanitary authority to the schoolmaster of any case occurring in the homes of any of the scholars, in order that all children living in that hoiise may be excluded from attending school. (3) The immediate closure of the elementary schools and the exclusion of the younger children from the mixed schools, should a rise in the number of cases suggest its expediency. (4) Eemoval to hospital of, at any rate, the earlier cases. Reciprocity of action between the sanitary and scholastic authorities is essential to success. During the holiday seasons, reliance must be placed on compulsory notification and prompt isolation, together with the inculcation of common-sense precautions amongst the parents. Unfortunately, the indifference to measles, which is so general amongst the people, especially in the northern towns, and their ignorance of its dangers, are facts which seriously militate against the success of any attempt to effectually control its extension. The infectivity of the measles patient is probably greatest during the later pre-eruptive stage, and declines rapidly during defervescence. It is to the mucous discharges so characteristic of the disease that the contagium of measles appears to attach itself especially, although the transient branny desquamation which usually follows on the subsidence of the rash is probably in some degree infectious. Isolation must be maintained for at least a clear fortnight, dating from the disappearance of the eruption; at the expiration of which, after having been thoroughly bathed, the patient may be allowed to again mix with others, provided no sign of catarrh or peeling can be detected. The supervention of broncho-pneumonia is not only competent to prolong a patient's infectivity, but it is liable to spread to others with disastrous result. A true relapse of measles is exceedingly rare, though second attacks are not very uncommon. In a good many instances in which a second attack of measles has been recorded, it is more than likely that either it or the primary attack was, in reality, rotheln. Incubation. — The period of incubation in measles, considering its length, is remarkably constant, viz., ten or eleven days in most cases. In other words, the eruption may be expected to appear on the fourteenth day after exposure to infection, and it is not very often found to vary more than twenty-four hours one side of the fortnight. Although in the majority of cases the incubation is ten or eleven days, instances are recorded which show that it may be as short as six or even five days, or, on the other hand, as long as fifteen. In cases where the incubation stage is unduly prolonged the eruption may often be observed to follow very quickly on the first signs of invasion, although the converse apparently does not hold good. Course.—The attack usually begins some- what suddenly. The child is noticed to be fretful; it refuses its food, and presents the223 MEASLES symptoms of an ordinary cold. Its voice be- comes hoarse, and it is troubled with a frequent irritating cough; it has a running from the nose, and may be heard to sneeze occasionally. The temperature is raised, perhaps to 101°, or more; the skin feels hot; and after a restless night, the child is likely to be worse in the morning. The aspect of a patient at this stage is often very characteristic. The eyes are watery and injected, the face is pale, and a few reddish blotches or spots may often be observed round the mouth and nose, which give to the skin a "measly" appearance; and the child, who persistently avoids the light, in consequence of the photophobia which is present, both looks and feels profoundly miserable. Troublesome diarrhoea is apt to arise at this stage ; the cough becomes more distinctly laryngeal in character, and scattered rhonchi may at the same time be audible in the chest. The coryza, lachrymation, and other catarrhal signs frequently appear to have reached their climax on the second day of illness; after which a marked improvement often sets in, such as to inspire a belief that the affection is coming to an end. The im- provement, however, is not maintained, for on the fourth day—or more commonly during the course of the third night, though sometimes not until the fifth morning—the rash begins to come out, and its development is attended with a fresh rise of temperature and an aggravation of the catarrhal symptoms. After twenty-four to forty-eight hours both the rash and the pyrexia usually come to their full development, and the climax of the attack is reached. This will be on the fifth or sixth day of the disease. Within twenty-four hours of this a rapid fall of temperature occurs, attended with an abatement of the catarrhal condition and a gradual disappearance of the eruption. Should, however, any respiratory complication arise, the temperature will be sustained, and the patient's condition, often aggravated by severe diarrhoea, is then liable to become very serious. Such are the outlines of an ordinary attack. Analysis of Symptoms.—Eruption.—This at an early stage consists of small discrete red spots which may usually be first observed about the roots of the hair, on the forehead and sides of the head and neck, especially behind the ears. It quickly invades the face, neck, and upper part of the chest and arms, from whence it spreads downwards over the trunk and limbs, involving the legs in from twelve to twenty- four hours after its first appearance. As the eruption develops, the individual spots become more raised and larger, and coalescing with neighbouring ones, give rise to irregular raised tracts of vividly-injected skin, the intervening portions remaining pale and unaff'ected. As a result of their confluence, individual papules become grouped together into variously shaped figures, some of vvhich tend to assume a crescentic arrangement, the so-called " measles crescents." In many cases, however, the identification of these crescents calls for a distinct effort of tlae imagination. The rash, which is of a dusky red colour, often with a distinct purplish tint, in most cases reaches its full development at any particular spot in from twenty-four to thirty-six hours; after which it rapidly subsides. It may, therefore, be fading on the face and upper part of the body, while only just fully out on the legs and feet. As a rule, the eruption is well marked on the face, and the circumoral region rarely escapes in- vasion. Though usually represented on the palms and soles by a simple continuous flush, in some cases distinct maculation can be clearly distinguished, especially at an early stage. The eruption fades in the order in which it came, and though the hypersemia is commonly gone within three or four days of its appearance, a brownish mottled staining of the skin remains for several days, occasionally for a week, longer. When the rash has faded, more or less peeling of the skin usually follows. It consists of fine branny scales, and never shows the pin-hole character which is so distinctive of scarlet fever ; it is mainly confined to the face, arms, and legs, but is rarely, if ever, seen on the palms or soles. The desquamation is completed within a fortnight. Catarrh.—Although the respiratory passages are prone to be most seriously affected in a well-developed attack of measles, it is unusual for any of the mucous membranes to fail to show some evidence of catarrh. The conjunctivse are early involved, becoming injected and ferrety ; lachrymation, attended with a sensation of pricking in the eyes and more or less photo- phobia, are usually complained of, and the lachrymation may develop into a definite sero- purulent discharge. The implication of the mucous lining of the nasal passages and frontal sinuses gives rise to a thin nasal discharge, usually accompanied with more or less sneezing and headache, which are commonly present from an early stage. Laryngeal catarrh, prob- ably extending to the trachea and larger bronchial tubes, is responsible for an irritating croupy cough, hoarseness, and partial loss of voice, and in some cases the breathing may be- come distinctly stridulous. The mucous mem- brane of the palate, fauces, and buccal cavity is red and tumid, and occasionally small superficial excoriations may be seen on the inner surface of the cheeks, lips, or gums. In some cases, during the pre-eruptive stage, minute red points or spots can be detected on the palate and buccal surface, especially if the subsequent eruption tends to retain its discrete characters; but in the large majority of cases these spots, if discernible at all, become rapidly merged in the diff"use redness of a catarrhal stomatitis.MEASLES 224 Koplik of New York states that small, ir- regular, bright-red spots, with a raised bluish- white centre about the size of a small pin's head, can be detected on the mucous membrane of the cheek and lips during the early pre-eruptive stage in measles. Slawyk and Roily confirm their diagnostic value, the former having found them in 45 out of 52, and 31 out of 32 cases. He states that they vary in number fi'om 6 to 20 on each side, though often more numerous on one side than the other. Their most common situation is said to be the surface of the cheek opposite the molar teeth, and thovigh less fre- quently on the lips, are never present on the palate. It is said that they cannot be removed by ordinary manipulation, but may be picked off with a pair of forceps, and that they are composed of thick layers of fatty epithelium. The freqvient presence of these spots is confirmed by Cohn, who, however, thinks that Koplik goes too far in describing them as constant. All these observers agree in stating that the spots may be seen from one to three days before the rash comes out, though rapidly disappearing afterwards, and that bright daylight may be necessary for their recognition. It must be confessed that most observers in this covmtry have hitherto, for the most part, failed to detect the appearances above described. In many cases, however, at an early stage of the attack, a number of small dead-white spots, varying in size from a small pin's head to a millet seed, of an obviously aphthous nature, can be detected on the mucous surface of the cheek, lips, and contiguous surface of the gums. They may be removed with but little force, and quickly disappear as the catarrh abates. The intestinal track is liable to be involved at an early stage of the attack, as evidenced by the occurrence of severe diarrhoea which sometimes proves very refractory to treatment. This is very likely to be a source of trouble when arising at a later stage of the disease. Micturi- tion, too, in children is apt to be unduly frequent, a result which is probably due to irritation of the urethral mucous membrane. Olandular Affection.—The lymphatic glands in the neck, both in the submaxillary and in the posterior cervical region, are usually some- what enlarged and often slightly tender. The swelling, however, is never very great, nor do the glands evince any tendency to suppuration, as is seen in scarlet fever. The Temperature.—This usually rises with the first sign of illness, and may reach 102° or more within the first twenty-four hours, but during the course of the second or third day it often declines a degree or two concurrently with a partial abatement of the catarrhal con- dition. During the course of the third or fourth day, often the third night, the pyrexia rapidly increases, and rising as the rash comes out, usually reaches its climax co-incidently with the full development of the eruption. The temperature then commonly registers 103° or 104°, which in most cases corresponds with the second day of the eruption. After remaining at this level for some hours, rarely more than a day, a rapid fall of temperature occurs, and the normal is quickly reached. So constant is this relation between the pyrexia and the eruption, that should a temperature crisis fail to appear within twenty-four hours of the full development of the rash, one is justified in assuming that some respiratory complication has supervened, which may, or may not, prove serious. In a good many cases a partial re- mission of the pyrexia occurs, but the tempera- ture does not come right down to normal in con- sequence of its fall having been arrested by an extension of the bronchial catarrh. Pulse and Respiration. —■ In uncomplicated attacks of measles, neither pulse nor respiration presents any features other than those ordinarily associated with the febrile state; but should the attack be complicated with broncho- pneumonia, or definite bronchitis supervene, the rapidity of both, particularly the respiration, is markedly increased. Delirium.—In the simple form of the disease delirium is certainly uncommon, but in the sevei'er cases, where, owing either to the toxic intensity of the disease or to pulmonary implica- tion, the exhaustion is profound, delirium, attended with muscular tremor, is apt to arise, and in young children frequently gives place to convulsions, which are nearly always fatal. The convulsions which in infants sometimes occur during the early pre-eruptive stage are not necessarily of the same seriovis import. Aberrant Forms.—Cases of measles are not infrequently met with which deviate from the ordinary type. This may be simply in respect to their extreme mildness, or, on the other hand, their severity. In the former category must be included those attacks in which the catarrhal signs are almost, if not entirely, absent; and the patient, beyond showing slight conjunctival injection, with perhaps a little cough, or some dryness of the throat, may experience but little discomfort, although the rash may be well developed and its appearance characteristic. In other cases, although the catarrhal symptoms may be well marked, the rash is either conspicuous by its absence or, if it appear at all, is but partial and ill developed. Under these circumstances, the type of attack, though sometimes mild, is by no means necessarily so, for an ill-developed or recedent eruption is apt to be attended with pulmonary congestion, profuse diarrhoea, and a persistently high temperature. In some benign cases with but slight evidence of catarrh the rash is practically limited to the face and neck; in others, though more rarely, the trunk alone may be invaded. Such attacksMEASLES 225 are very liable to be mistaken for rotheln, unless clearly connected with others of a positive character. In some instances faint indications of the eruption may be seen from the outset, the rash appearing as if undecided whether to come out or not for several days, or it may even recede. On the fourth day, however, it usually burst out in its full development, attended with the customary increase of pyrexia. The severer forms of measles practically com- prise two varieties, the pulmonary and the toxic. The pulmonary variety is most often found in strumous children and in those who are subject to some chronic lung affection, and, moreover, the disease is somewhat prone to take this form in young children recovering from whooping- cough, diphtheria, or scarlet fever. As the name would imply, the brunt of the disease falls on the respiratory organs. The invasion is characterised by severe catarrh, the respiration is unduly rapid, and the cough frequent and ineffectual. The temperature is sustained at a high level, and shows but little, if any, re- mission during the pre-eruptive period. The rash is usually intense and often patchy, and as it develops the general condition becomes aggravated. The breathing becomes still more rapid, the surface somewhat dusky, and the patient often delirious. Fine crepitation, in addition to cooing rhonchus, may usually be heard over the lungs, especially at the bases, at about this time, though no obvious dulness can be detected. Laryngeal stridor in some degree is commonly present, though rarely in itself sufficient to give rise to actual dyspnoea. Most cases of the pulmonary variety are fatal. Cyanosis gradually supervenes, and the delirium gives place to drowsiness which soon merges into coma. Death, which is rarely delayed much beyond the end of the week in very young patients, is often preceded by con- vulsions. In the toxic variety of the disease, which is sometimes spoken of as " typhoid measles," the symptoms develop with great rapidity. The temperature quickly reaches 105° or more, and the pulse becomes rapid and feeble, often registering 180° to 200° at an early stage. The respiration is shallow and frequent, and the tongue dry, brown, and tremulous. The rash is intense, often patchy in its distribution, and soon becomes distinctly petechial. Epistaxis and other forms of hsemorrhage are liable to occur. Muscular tremor is present, and delirium which soon passes into stupor, and the patient dies comatose usually on the fourth or fifth day. Cases of malignant measles are not very common in this country at the present day, at any rate in London. It is certainly possible, as was suggested by Hilton Fagge, that a good many cases of what was known as " black measles " in the past were in reality hsemorrhagic smallpox ; but, on the other hand, the low temperature VOL. VI and mental clearness of variola nigra are unlike toxic measles as we know it. Post-scarlatinal measles is characterised by considerable shortening of the pre - eruptive stage. The rash often appears on the first day and is rarely delayed beyond the second. The disease sometimes assumes the pulmonary form at the outset; but, on the other hand, septic broncho-pneumonia may develop at a later stage and prove fatal. Measles arising concurrently with or shortly after diphtheria is apt to be attended with a recrudescence of the exudation. It usually affects the larynx, from whence, as a rule, it rapidly extends to the bronchial passages. Measles associated either with scarlet fever or whooping-cough is apt to be serious, bvit its concurrence with diphtheria represents the most dangerous combination of any two infectious dis- orders. The results after tracheotomy are, as a rvile, very disappointing, but since the use of antitoxin they have been miich more favourable. Complications.—In the large proportion of measles deaths the fatal result is due to one of its recognised complications rather than to the toxic intensity of the disease. The complications, with but few exceptions, represent an aggravation, in some cases an ex- tension, of certain of the catarrhal symptoms which are normal accompaniments of the attack. The most important of these, as might be expected, are inflammatory affections of the respiratory organs. Laryngeal catarrh in some degree is present in most attacks, but occasionally acute laryngitis, attended with stridulous breathing, sets in, and becomes a source of actual dyspna3a. It most frequently reaches its height during the develop- ment of the rash, after which, under appropri- ate treatment, it commonly subsides. In some instances laryngeal obstruction supervenes at a later stage during early convalescence, and is then usually dependent upon diphtheritic in- fection. The exudation rapidly extends to the smaller bronchi, and the condition becomes very serious. In somes cases, particularly those in which the signs of laryngeal stenosis have been present from an early stage, the condition appears to be dependent on pyococcal infection. Under these circumstances no true membrane may be formed, but there is much swelling of the laryngeal mucous membrane, attended with profuse muco-purulent bronchorrhoea. Trache- otomy affords but little relief, and the patient after a protracted illness usually succumbs to septic broncho-pneumonia. Bronchitis affecting the smaller tubes is liable to arise as an extension of the catarrhal inflam- mation of the larger bronchi, which is normally present in measles. It is doubtful whether true capillary bronchitis ever occurs without some involvement of the pulmonary alveoli. It most often arises during the eruptive stage, and, likeMEASLES 226 broncho-pneumonia, its advent is suggested by an arrest of the normal defervescence of tempera- ture which follows the full development of the rash. In some cases it supervenes a few days after the temperature has fallen to normal. Its presence is indicated by the rapid development of cyanosis and marked acceleration of the respiration. On auscultation fine mucous rales may be heard over the lungs, unattended with either tubular breathing or obvious dulness. Bro7icho^jmeuinonia in some degree is rarely altogether absent in cases in which bronchitis has extended to the smaller tubes. It may arise at any stage of the measles attack, but most often during the height of the disease. It is most common in strumous, rachitic, or otherwise weakly children, particularly in very young ones. It is apt to be progressive, and on this account is responsible for the large majority of measles deaths. The symptoms in no way differ from those of broncho-pneumonia unconnected with measles. The attack is characterised by pro- tracted pyrexia of a remittent order, attended with marked emaciation and consequent ex- haustion. In many cases not directly fatal it engenders a predisposition to subsequent tuber- culosis. Rhi7iitis.—The nasal catarrh may be unduly severe, and in many cases, especially in strumous children, the rhinorrhoea becomes chronic. Otitis Media.—The middle ear is frequently involved by extension of the catarrh along the Eustachian tube, in which case symptoms of a threatening character are apt to supervene. The tempei-ature suddenly rises, perhaps ac- companied with a rigor, and the child becomes restless and drowsy. Deafness, tinnitus, and tenderness over the cartilaginous portion of the auditory canal are usually present, and probably otalgia. This, however, need not be very ob- vious ; but its presence may be inferred if the child becomes extremely restless and occasion- ally cries out as if in pain, or it may become delirious. In the large majority of cases the tympanic membrane gives way, and relief is obtained spontaneously. The temperature falls, and the pain and restlessness subside on the appearance of the discharge. Should, however, no escape be provided for the inflammatory products shut up in the tympanum, suppuration of the mastoid cells, convulsions, meningitis, or sinus thrombosis are likely to arise and prove fatal. Chronic otorrhoea is frequently dependent upon disease of the temporal bone following otitis media, ascribable in most cases either to scarlet fever or measles. Occasionally aphtlim or ulcerative stomatitis arises as a result of the catarrhal affection of the mouth, in which case small white patches or shallow ulcers with a bright red or greyish floor may be seen on the mucous membrane of the cheeks, lips, gums, or side of the tongue. The latter organ is coated with a brownish-white fur, and the breath is very offensive. In some cachectic children, or in those exhausted by broncho-pneumonia or co-existent septic scarlet fever, necrosis of some portion of the mouth arises and rapidly spreads. In this way extensive sloughs may involve the tissues of the cheeks, gums, or sides of the tongue, and with disastrous results. The condition is usually known as noma or cancrum oris, and it may affect the external genitalia in female children. Diarrhoea sometimes appears at the commence- ment of the attack, but perhaps more often sets in during the eruptive stage. It is liable to persist for a considerable time, and is due to catarrhal enteritis. If chronic, the patient is liable to become exhausted by the continual passage of offensive watery stools, and after death the colon has been found both thickened and ulcerated. Conjunctivitis of mild degree is usually present in measles, but it may take on a purulent character, attended with mvich chemosis. Under these circumstances keratitis and corneal ulcer are liable to arise, sometimes leading to hypopion, and occasionally, though rarely, destructive in- flammation of the globe. Certain affections of the nervous system have occasionally been observed to follow an attack of measles, of which chorea, muscular atrophy, myelitis, and hemiplegia may be cited as ex- amples. Pathology.—Measles is unquestionably due to a specific living contagium, but its identity has not yet been conclusively established. Canon and Pielicke in 1892, and more recently, Czajkowski, claim to have discovered a small bacillus in the blood, and to have successfully cultivated it; but the two descriptions evidently do not apply to the same organism, nor in either case have the observations received indepen- dent confirmation. The bacillus described by Cornil and Babes is believed to be identical with Pfeiffer's influenza bacillus. Secondary infection by pyogenetic organisms and the diplococcus associated with pneumonia are common in measles, their multiplication being favoured by the catarrhal condition of the mucous membranes. The extent to which these extraneous organisms are responsible for the supervention of most of the inflammatory com- plications is uncertain. It has been asserted by Cornil and Babes with apparent reason that in respect to one form of pneumonia presenting distinctive histological features, the affection is a specific manifestation of the measles infection. With this possible exception, the post-mortem appearances are not distinctive of measles, but rather of its complications. In toxic attacks of measles, as of other in- fective fevers, the blood is wanting in coagula- bility, and stains the vessel walls; while the227 MEASLES viscera are softened, often somewhat enlarged, and prone to putrefaction. In cases complicated by diphtheria the Klebs- LofBer bacillus can be detected in the exudation. Caseation of the bronchial glands and of small areas in the lungs are frequently found as the result of a broncho-pneumonia engendered by measles. In some cases such foci are of tuber- culous origin, as proved by their containing tubercle bacilli, but in others no bacilli can be detected. In this case they are probably due to antecedent broncho-pneumonia, though the child may die from generalised miliary tuber- culosis, the result of subsequent infection with tubercle. Prognosis.—The enormous influence exerted by age on the chance of a fatal issue is well shown by the following table, which shows the case mortality amongst 3181 cases of measles treated in Glasgow Fever Hospital during the years 1897-99. any of the more important complications super- vene, particularly membranous laryngitis, capil- lary bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, and noma, the outlook is very serious. Diagnosis.—Should there be no eruption, as is sometimes the case, measles is very likely to be mistaken for an ordinary catarrh. Usually, however, the pyrexia is more pronounced; and there is often some degree of blotchiness of the face, which is very suggestive of measles. In such cases the presence on the buccal mucous membrane of Koplik's spots (see p. 224) must be carefully sought for, as their diagnostic value, if found, would be considerable. In some doubt- fvil instances, however, the presence of measles may be suspected by its connection with an undoubted attack. In cases attended with pro- nounced laryngeal catarrh, croup may be an early symptom, and the case simulate laryngeal diphtheria. The absence of faucial exudation alone is not Males. Females. Totals. Age Periods. Admitted. Died. Fatality per Cent. Admitted. Died. Fatality per Cent. Admitted. Died. Fatality per Cent. Under 1 year ,, 1-2 years „ 2-3 „ „ 3-4 „ 4-5 88 149 202 232 198 23 50 41 19 7 26 33-5 20-3 8-2 3-5 87 157 188 236 206 18 50 28 27 8 20-7 31-8 14-9 11-4 3-9 175 306 390 468 404 41 100 69 46 15 23-4 32-6 17-6 9-8 3-7 Under 5 years „ 5-10 „ 10-15 ,, Over 15 ,, 869 526 28 157 140 17 2 16-1 3-2 7-1 874 539 45 143 131 18 14-9 3-3 1743 1065 73 300 271 35 2 15-5 3-2 3-5 Total . 1580 159 10-0 1601 149 9-3 3181 308 9-68 In the foregoing table it is seen that measles was most fatal in the second year of life, when about one in every three children attacked died, but all records show that the fatality is equally high diiring the latter half of the first year. After two years the mortality rapidly fell. During the first quinquennium of life it was about five times as high as in the two suc- ceeding ones, and at ages subsequent to fifteen years all recovered. The influence of sex is practically nil. Measles is apt to take a severe form in strumous, rachitic, or tuberculous children, and in those subject to chronic lung disease, or recently convalescent from whooping- cough, diphtheria, or scarlet fever. Certain symptoms, moreover, point to an un- favourable prognosis, viz., early high temperature without remission, early rapidity of breathing, cyanosis, rapid and feeble pulse, dry brown tongue, petechial rash, haemorrhages, severe diarrhoea, tremor, and convulsions ; while, should conclusive, but a bacteriological examination of the laryngeal mucus should serve to exclude diphtheria. Three only of eruptive fevers are liable to be confused with measles, viz., rbtheln, scarlet fever, and early smallpox. The following characters should serve to dis- tinguish rCtheln :—The absence of pre-emptive illness (except that some adults complain of tender swelling of the posterior cervical glands for a few days before the rash comes out, oc- casionally with slight pyrexia) ; the mildness of the catarrh, which is usually limited to slight faucial redness and faint conjunctival injection ; the absence of Koplik's spots ; the occasional presence of an enlargement of the posterior cervical and mastoid lymphatic glands, consider- ably more pronounced than in measles, and at- tended with definite tenderness. The eruption is usually the first symptom of the complaint, and its component spots are commonly smaller,MEASLES 228 pinker, and more discrete than those of measles; while the rash, being more transient, is conse- quently followed by less staining, though more peeling. Other peculiarities of the rotheln eruption are that it is not infrequently absent from the face altogether, and that on the lower part of the tri;nk, forearms, and legs, the spots tend to early coalescence—in which case large erythematous patches may be formed resembling the rash of scarlet fever. It must be remem- bered that in post-scarlatinal measles the pre- emptive stage is freqviently wanting. Its differentiation from rotheln may then be ex- tremely difficult, if not impossible, in an isolated case. Any difficulty which may be experienced in the differentiation between measles and scarlet fever can usually be cleared up by attention to the following points. In scarlet fever the attack is usually ushered in with vomiting; the rash appears within a few hours of invasion, attended with marked faucial inflammation, tender en- largement of the glands beneath the jaw, and more or less discomfort in swallowing; while the tongue, even if it does not present the characteristic strawberry appearance, should show some evidence of peeling. The tempera- ture declines gradually with the rash, instead of falling suddenly within about twenty-four hours after its full development. The eruption is represented on the face by a simple vivid flush, the circumoral region remain- ing pale and uninvaded. It is never macular on the palms or soles, but is simply erythema- tous. The individual papules of the eruption are smaller aud more closely aggregated, and though the papular element in parts may be well developed, the surface of the skin generally is flushed. As the hypertemia subsides, a uni- form staining of a greenish-yellow tint remains without any suggestion of mottling. The sub- sequent peeling is usually more pronounced and presents the " pin-hole" characters which are associated with scarlet fever. Definite naso- respiratory catarrh is absent, while the super- vention of either rheumatism, adenitis, or albuminuria is confirmatory of scarlet fever. Smallpox in the early papular stage is occa- sionally mistaken for measles. The complaint of severe lumbar pain during the pre-eruptive stage or the occurrence of a rigor should lead to a suspicion of smallpox, which would be strengthened should the temperature immedi- ately fall on the appearance of the rash. The smallpox eruption can usually be felt by the hand before it can be clearly recognised by the eye, whereas the measles rash is macular from the onset, and has a velvety feel to the touch, quite different from the shotty sensation im- parted by that of smallpox. The catarrhal symptoms usually present in measles would, of course, be absent in smallpox. Treatment.—No known drug has been proved to exert any specific influence over the course of the disease, and our treatment should have for its object the placing of the patient in the best position for undergoing the attack, and for warding off the various inflammatory complica- tions which are prone to supervene and seriously endanger life. The patient should be placed in a room sparsely furnished, freely ventilated, and adequately warmed. The temperature should not be allowed to fall below 60° nor rise above 70° at the most. The exclusion of direct draught from the patient should always be at- tempted ; this, however, is not always practi- cable in winter if, as it should be, the window be kept partly open at the top. The warming of the room is perfectly effected by means of the radiant heat of a good open fire. The light should be subdued, though not excluded, in view of the photophobia which is usually present. The eyes should be carefully ex- amined daily in a good light, so that the earliest sign of corneal implication might be detected, and the conjunctivte periodically bathed with weak boric lotion. The patient should be en- couraged to blow his nose at intervals, in order to clear out as far as possible the nasal passages; and should there be any sign of earache, tin- nitus, or deafness, it is well to gently irrigate the nasal passages with weak saline, Condy's fluid, or boric lotion, in order to diminish the chance of inflammation extending up the Eus- tachian tube, and involving the middle ear. Should there be evidence of Eustachian stenosis, it is wiser not to use the Politzer bag during the acute catarrhal stage, but the drum should be examined daily, and punctured at once should any bulging be detected. The presence of otalgia calls for the four-hourly irrigation of the external canal with a warm solution of some antiseptic, such as boric or carbolic acid (1 in 80), and this should be rigorously main- tained after the drum has been punctured, or on the spontaneous appearance of otorrhoea. If the pain be severe, and the child fretful, the application of a hot poppy fomentation over the ear will often give relief; or should this fail, the installation of a few drops of liquor atropise containing 5 per cent of hydrochlorate of cocaine will usually be successful. Laryngeal irritation is best relieved by the inhalation of steam, or by the application to the larynx of hot fomentations or a sponge frequently wrung out of hot water containing a little turpentine. Should the breathing become actually stridulous, it may be due to acuteness of the catarrh, in which case the above measures, with the addition of an expec- torant containing a few drops of tinct. camph. CO. and glycerine, will probably be sufficient; but the likelihood of diphtheria supervening should never be forgotten. Under these cir- cumstances, diphtheria antitoxin in full dose must be at once injected and the injection229 MEASLES repeated in twelve hours time. This may or may not be successful in averting the necessity for tracheotomy. The onset of severe diarrhoea frequently calls for treatment; the diet should be confined to milk, which may be either pep- tonised or diluted in equal proportion with barley or lime water; and a few grains of Dover's powder may be given every four or six hours, if necessary. A powder consisting of two grains each of bismuth subnitrate, salicylate of soda, and Dover's powder for a child of five, repeated every six hours, is a useful remedy; or a few drops of laudanum may be tried, and the lower bowel washed out twice daily by means of a funnel and tube with a mixture consisting of a cold saturated solution of boric acid and lime-water. The diet may be changed by the substitution of whey, with the addition of one- eighth of cream for the milk; and to a young child brandy, in 30-minim doses, may be given every two hoiu's, and some raw-meat juice. In cases of the pulmonary type, or should bron- chitis or broncho-pneumonia supervene, the en- casement of the chest in hot linseed - meal poultices is of the utmost value ; the immediate benefit derived being frequently most striking. Since the broncho-pneumonia of measles is highly infective, the child on its first appearance shovild be promptly isolated from other cases of measles. In toxic attacks but little can be done. The strength as far as possible should be kept up with concentrated nourishment, and alcohol should be freely administered. Pyrexia and restlessness are best treated with tepid or cold sponging, and the wet pack may be employed; but cold bathing or the administration of an- tipyretic drugs are better left alone, as they are actually injurious in many cases. Convulsions in measles are usually fatal. For their relief the body should be immersed in a hot bath and cold effusions applied to the head, or a couple of leeches may be applied behind the ears, since these measures are re- ported to have been successful. Measly Beef or Pork.—Meat or ham from animals affected with the cysticercus bovis or the trichina spiralis (encysted form). See Parasites (Tcenia Solium, Cysticercus Cellu- losce); Parasites {Nematodes, Trichina Spiralis). Measurements. See F(etus and Ovum, Development of {^Determination of Period of Development); Generation, Female Organs OF {Pelvis, Diameters, Uterus, Dimensions, etc.) : Labour, Physiology of {Hard Passages); La- bour, Physiology of {Passenger, Foetal Head, etc.); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvimetry); Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Size of Uterus). Measures. *S^ee Metric System; Pre- scribing. Meat. See Allantiasis ; Botulism ; Cho- lera Nostras {Etiology); Diet {Animal Foods); Food {Aleat, Characteristics of Good Meat, etc.); Foot and Mouth Disease {Flesh of Diseased Animals); Immunity {Immune Serums, Meat Poisoning); Infant Feeding {Eggs and Meat Foods) ; Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Ex- citing Causes); Invalid Feeding {General Pre- paration of Meats, Food in Pyrexial States, Food in Convalescence, Salisbury Diet, etc.); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion {Sources of Food- Stuffs, Flesh); Psoriasis {Etiology, Excessive Meat Eating); Sprue {Treatment, Meat Diet); Toxicology {Animal Foods which may cause Poisoning). Meatotomy.—Incision of the meatus urinarius as a surgical procedure. Meatus.—An opening or passage such as the meatus urinarius, the meatus auditorius, and the meatus narium. Mechanism.—The structure or arrange- ment of parts in a machine or the manner in which a bodily function or act is performed, such as the mechanism of labour, of vision {e.g. accommodation), of hearing, etc. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism ; Accommodation {Nervous Mechanism); etc. Mechanotherapy.— The use of mechanical means in the treatment of disease or injiiry. Meckel's Cartilag^e. See Embryo- logy {Organogenetic Rearrangements, Branchial Arches). Meckel's Diverticulum.—The relic of the vitelline duct, usually attached to the lower part of the small intestine (the ileum) and sometimes causing intestinal strangulation, etc. See Embryology (Vitelline Stalk) ; In- testines, Diseases of {Malformation); Intes- tines, Surgical Affections of {Obstruction, Strangulation by Bands); Umbilicus, Diseases OP {Fistula from Persistent Omphalo-mesenteric Duct). Meckel's Ganglion. —The spheno- palatine ganglion. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Trigeminal, Treatment, Meckel's Ganglion). Meckelectomy.—Removal of Meckel's ganglion as a surgical procedure for trigeminal neuralgia, etc. See Nerves, Neuralgia {Treat- ment of Trigeminal Neuralgia). MeCOnalgia. — The neuralgic pains which follow indulgence in opium. Meconic Acid.—An acid, H2C7H2O7, 3H2O, contained in opium, capable of forming salts {meconates of potassium, sodium, etc.). See Opium. MeCOnine.—An alkaloid, CjoHjoO^, exist-230 MECONINE ing in opium ; others are meconidine (CjjHjgNO^) and meconoisin (CgHjyOg). See Opium. Meconium.—The dark green, viscid, faecal discharges of the new-born infant (Lat. meconium, poppy-juice). See Children, Clini- cal Examination of {Examination of Foices) ; FiECES ; F(ETUS AND OvUM, DEVELOPMENT OF {Foetal Excretory Functions, Meconium) ; New- born Infant {Physiological Peculiarities). Medewi. See Balneology {Sweden). Meclia,Cl.—Toward the middle line. Media,!!.—Situated in or relating to the middle line, e.g. of the body; mesial. See Nerves, Peripheral {Neuritis, Median Nerve); Palate {Malformations, Hare-Lip, Median). MediastinitiS. >S'eeMediastinum {Acute Mediastiiiitis). Mediastino - Pericarditis. See Mediastinum {Alediastiidtis). Mediastinum, Tiie. Anatomy op Mediastinum . . . 230 Mediastinal Emphysema . . . 230 Acute Mediastinitis and Mediastinal Abscess .... .231 Chronic Mediastinitis . . . .231 Mediastinal and other Intrathoracic Growths 233 Etiology 233 Morbid Anatomy and Pathology . 234 Symptoms ..... 235 Physical Signs. . . . .236 Diagnosis . . . . .237 Prognosis . . . . .238 Treatment 238 Notes on Certain Tumours . . . 239 Tubercidous Glands . . . .239 Gimima of the Lung . . . .239 Tumour of Thyroid . . . .239 TihmouT of Thymus . . . .239 Cysts: Dermoid, Congenital, Hydatid 240 Fibroma awl other Tumours . . 240 Actinomycosis ..... 240 Hemorrhage into Mediastinum . . 240 See also Chest-Wall, Affections of {Pain); Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Physical Signs, Percussioii); Heart, Surgery of ; Lungs, Abscess of {Mediastinal Abscess); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Glands, Mediasti^ial); Pericardium, Diseases of ; Pulse {Pulsus Paradoxus, Causes); Thymus Gland. The mediastinum is the space which is left in the median line of the chest by the non- approximation of the two pleurae. It is sub- divided into an anterior and a posterior medi- astinum, which are respectively in front and behind the heart, and a middle mediastinum which contains the heart. The anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the back of the sternum, behind by the pericardium, and by the pleural sacs on each side. It contains the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and triangvilaris sterni muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein, the internal mam- mary vessels of the left side, a few lymphatic vessels, and some areolar tissue. The middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space. It contains the heart, enclosed in the pericardium, and the vessels connected with it, the roots of the lungs, the phrenic nerves, and some lymphatic glands. The posterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the pericardium and roots of the lungs, behind by the spinal cohimn, and its lateral boundaries are the pleural sacs. It contains the third part of the arch of the aorta, the descending aorta, oesophagus, pneumogastric nerves, thoracic duct, azygos veins, and lym- phatic glands. Mediastinal Emphysema.—The presence of air in the cellular tissue of the mediastinum. Emphysema of the anterior mediastinum is a frequent occurrence in fatal cases of trache- otomy, and is occasionally associated with pneumothorax, to which it stands in causal relation. It may also result from perforation of the trachea or bronchi, or from conditions which give rise to a communication between the lung and the mediastinum, or from rupture of the oesophagus. Emphysema of the anterior mediastinum may or may not be associated with emphysema of the neck; the former is due to the diminished pressure in the thorax during inspiration, while the latter is produced during expiration. In mediastinal emphysema the air passes down in the space beneath the deep cervical fascia. Its production is favoured by division of the deep cervical fascia, obstruction to the air-passages, and inspiratory efforts. The deep cervical fascia should not be divided lower than is absolutely necessary. The period of danger during tracheotomy is the interval between the division of the deep cervical fascia and the intro- duction of the tube into the trachea. Should artificial respiration be necessary the tissiies should be kept in apposition to the trachea. The symptom of mediastinal emphysema is a return of dyspnoea after tracheotomy, in the absence of evidence of the cannula or trachea being blocked by false membrane. On percus- sion the chest will be found unduly resonant. The existence of subcutaneous emphysema of the neck would be another point in favour of the diagnosis. The only treatment likely to be of avail is the inhalation of oxygen in order to diminish the respiratory efforts.231 MEDIASTINUM, THE Acute Mediastinitis. — Acute inflammation of the mediastinum is a rare disease. It may occur as a result of traumatism, especially from the perforation of the oesophagus caused by swallowing fish-bones or other sharp articles, or from rupture of the ossophagus. It may spread from a pneumonia, pleurisy, or peri- carditis ; at the necropsy it may be difficult to say which was the primary condition. An angina Ludovici may spread downward, or the inflammation set up by a tracheotomy wound may have a similar course, and so set up acute mediastinitis. Lastly, it has been met with in malignant forms of the exanthemata, especially measles and enteric fever. In the septic form of acute mediastinitis the patient has severe pain in the post-sternal region; this is increased on taking food, and in some cases deglutition is accompanied by agonising pain. The sufferings of the patient are increased by extension of the inflammation to the pleurae and pericardium. The respira- tions are frequent and shallow, the pulse is very frequent and feeble. The temperature of the patient is usually high and irregular. The other symptoms of the febrile state are present. The disease usually runs a rapid course, death occurring within three or four days from the commencement of symptoms. At the necropsy a gangrenous or a diffuse suppurative condition may be seen, and various micro-organisms will be found. In the less virulent forms the symptoms gradually subside to give place to signs of mediastinal suppuration. As just mentioned, an abscess in the medi- astinum may follow upon acute mediastinitis due to septic causes, or it may be produced by a blow on the sternum, or by a penetrating wound, as by bullet, spear, dagger, etc. The chronic form of mediastinal abscess is usually connected with tuberculous disease of the spine or sternum, or of the lymphatic glands. In the more acute forms the suppuration is diffuse, but in the chronic variety it may be localised. The symptom of mediastinal suppuration which usually claims most attention is the severe pain due to tension of pus. With this are associated the ordinary symptoms of sup- puration, viz., temperature of a hectic type, sweats, anorexia, and possibly rigors. Dyspnoea is also commonly present. In the so-called "cold" abscess, such as may result from caries of the spine or from tuberculous glands, symp- toms due to pressure may be more prominent than pain. If a large abscess has formed, a fluctuating tumour may be felt above the episternal notch or in one of the intercostal spaces, and this bulging may have an impulse on coughing, or pulsation may be communicated to it from the heart. If suppuration be confined to the posterior mediastinum there would probably be local pain and tenderness, and possibly dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus. Diagnosis.—In the past, mistakes have been made in confounding a mediastinal abscess with an aneurysm, and vice versa. But if care be paid to the mode of onset and to physical signs, there should be little chance of a repetition of the mistake. Puncture is a valuable aid to diagnosis, and even if an aneurysm were punctured by an exploring needle little harm would probably result. In the differential diagnosis between a medi- astinal abscess and an intrathoracic new growth, acute symptoms, such as rigors, hectic tempera- ture, sweats, and throbbing pain, would point to the former. Symptoms of pressure, such as dysphagia, laryngeal paralysis, and enlarged veins, would suggest a new growth. Treatment. —• In acute septic mediastinitis little can be done except to mitigate the symptoms as they arise. The severe pain, especially the pain attendant upon the act of deglutition, will require the free use of morphine hypodermically. In cases due to erysipelas anti-streptococcic serum should be injected. The advance of surgery has rendered possible the treatment of mediastinal abscesses on ordinary lines, and the success which has attended the drainage of free mediastinal abscesses should lead to the operation being carried out in all cases, as unless a free exit for pus is made the patient will almost certainly die. This applies to abscesses in the posterior as well as in the anterior mediastinum. Chronic Mediastinitis.—Chronic inflamma- tion of the mediastinum includes three patho- logical groups, viz.:— I. Adherent pericardium with considerable increase of fibrovis tissue in the mediastinum and adhesion of the pericardium to surrounding parts, and not infrequently associated with caseation of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. To this group the term of indurative mediastino- pericarditis is properly restricted. II. Adherent pericardium with adhesion of the exterior to the sternum, costal cartilages, and lung, but with little or no increase in the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum; pericarditis, external and internal. III. Cases of simple chronic mediastinitis, in which without any adhesion of the pericardium there is an increase in the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum. This form occurs less frequently than the other two. Etiology.—In analysing the cases, 42 in all, collected by Dr. T. Harris, Dr. J. J. Whipham, and Dr. W. C. Bosanquet, it will be seen that the youngest was an infant of fifteen months, and the eldest was a man sixty-one years of age. Under the age of ten years there occurred 8 cases ; between ten and twenty years, 9 cases ;MEDIASTINUM, THE 232 between twenty and thirty years, 13 cases; between thirty and forty years, 5 cases; and above forty years of age, 7 cases. The disease is therefore one which occurs especially in early adult life, and as it runs a chronic course the probability is that many of the cases commenced in childhood. Cases of simple chronic medi- astinitis occur later in life than the two forms of mediastinal inflammation. In 34 of the cases males were affected; in 7, females ; and in 1 case the sex is not mentioned. The predominance of the male sex is therefore very marked. The conditions which have been noted as having preceded the onset of the symptoms are too varied to enable one to say that there is any disease which is particularly liable to be followed by indurative mediastinitis. There is certainly no evidence pointing to any close connection with rheumatism. The absence of signs of endocarditis in these cases would prob- ably suffice to put the rheumatic origin out of court, knowing as we do that in early life rheumatism commonly attacks the endocardium. In a few cases the tuberculous origin of the disease is indubitable, the inflammatory mischief starting in tuberculous mediastinal glands. A septic mediastinitis may possibly be the cause of some cases, but this form of inflammation usually runs an acute course. Traumatism has been suggested as a cause. A history of scarlet fever, measles, and enteric fever is recorded in several of the cases, but without any connecting link to suggest cause and effect. In a similar way hard drinking may be mentioned as a factor. Morbid Anatomy.—At the necropsy the heart may be found healthy, but owing to the in- creased work thrown upon it, from the hamper- ing action of the adherent pericardium, hyper- trophy, followed by degeneration and dilatation, may result. All varieties of changes may be seen in the pleurfe, viz., adhesion to the chest- wall, or to pericardium and chest-wall; pleural effusion is very common. The increase of fibrous tissue and matting together of the con- tents of the mediastinum may cause obstruction to the vense cavae, but especially to the superior vena cava. The liver is usually greatly en- larged and nutmeggy ; this is partly due to the cardiac faihire and partly to the obstruction of the inferior vena cava mentioned above. The condition of the spleen varies; it may be healthy, or congested and enlarged, or it may have a thickened capsule. Chronic inflammation of the peritoneum with ascites is very frequently met ■with in chronic mediastinitis, and the cause has not yet been decided. Heidemann believes that the dropsy is due to the cardiac failure, but that the inflammatory condition of the peritoneum favours the occurrence of ascites, rather than oedema of the so far uninjured con- nective tissue of the lower extremities. The kidneys do not appear to suffer much in this disease; in most cases they are practically healthy, in a few they are congested, and only very exceptionally is there any structural change. Symptoms. — The mode of onset is as variable as the etiology of the disease would lead us to anticipate. In many cases it is so insidious that the initiatory symptoms are frequently over- looked, and it is not until cardiac failure and dilatation occur that the condition is recognised. In other cases there is the history of some acute specific or febrile disease, accompanied with bronchitis or pain in the chest, to direct attention to the mediastinum. It is but rarely that the disease is ushered in with an acute pericarditis. The complex of symptoms suggestive of this disease is the following : duskiness or cyanosis of the cheeks, lips, and tongue; great enlarge- ment, with inspiratory swelling and pulsation of the veins of the neck; swelling of the eyes and oedema of head and upper extremities; ascites with or without general dropsy, the lower limbs being usually but little affected. Paroxysmal cough due to pressure on the bronchi or on the nerves supplying the bronchi, and dyspnoea, sometimes amounting to orthopnoea, frequently occur. The pulse, which is commonly above the normal rate, often presents the character known as the pulsus paradoxus, i.e. a pulse which becomes smaller or disappears during inspiration. This has been noticed occasionally in the arteries of the left arm only. As the result of pressure on the pulmonary veins, oedema of the lungs and bronchial catarrh may result. The pleural cavities are frequently implicated, and pleuritic effusion may mask the original disease. Physical Signs.—On physical examination the area of cardiac dulness will be found greatly increased, especially to the right. In cases coming on acutely, pericardial friction may be detected. G. B. Perez has observed in cases of mediastinal adhesion that on auscultating over the mid-sternum crackling sounds may be heard on elevating the arm, especially the left arm, above the head. The liver is usually found to be greatly en- larged, and, as already mentioned, there is in the majority of cases a considerable amount of ascites. The spleen is generally not enlarged. Albumin is frequently found in the urine, its presence being due to congestion of the kidneys rather than to renal disease. Diagnosis.—If the physician be on the look- out for the disease, well-marked examples of indurative mediastino-pericarditis do not present any insuperable difficulty in diagnosis. That careful and experienced physicians have failed to recognise the conditions is a proof that mistakes are easily made. In one instance the disease was mistaken for cirrhosis of the liver, and in another for a simple case of chronic bronchitis and dilated heart. In children the233 MEDIASTINUM, THE possibility of ascites being due to mediastinitis rather than to cirrhosis of the liver should be particularly borne in mind. An enlarged liver, especially in children, without obvious cause is another condition which should suggest the possibility of mediastinitis. The points on which stress should be laid are a dusky complexion, enlargement of the veins of the neck with inspiratory swelling, oedema of the face and upper extremities, a pulsus para- doxus, and in some cases ascites coming on early without the usual symptoms of cirrhosis, coupled with an increased area of cardiac dulness, and possibly a pericardial friction sound, but without signs of valvular disease. The pleural effusion which is so often seen in this disease by obscur- ing the cardiac dulness increases the difficulty of diagnosis. One of the difficulties is to ex- clude a mediastinal tumour; in many respects the conditions brought about by these two affections are so similar that a differential diagnosis will at times tax the skill of the ablest clinician. At one time a pulsus paradoxus was regarded as diagnostic of indurative mediastino-pericar- ditis, but too much reliance must not be placed on this sign, as it may occur where there is no mediastinal affection, and it may be wanting in cases of the disease. Prognosis.—The disease runs a chronic course, and is not one that is capable of being cured. It may last from a few months up to several years. The usual cause of death is heart failure, with increasing oedema and ascites, the dilatation being chiefly on the right side of the heart. Intercurrent attacks of bronchitis and broncho- pneumonia often carry off the enfeebled patient, or his end is accelerated by pleural effusion. In some cases death is due to extension of the tuberculous mischief which started the disease. In one case the interference with the return of blood from the brain caused death from apoplexy. Treatment.—Inasmuch as we are powerless to check the progress of the disease when the symp- toms are fully developed, we should do our best to prevent the conditions which bring it about. Hence, in all thoracic inflammatory affections, such as pericarditis, pleurisy, and pneumonia occurring in childhood, great care should be taken to see that the patients are confined to bed until all febrile symptoms have subsided, and during convalescence they should be kept at rest, so as to allow the damaged organs to regain, as far as possible, their normal condition. As regards the disease itself all that can be done is to meet symptoms as they arise. Tonics, such as digitalis, strophanthus, and strychnine, may be required to prevent heart failure. As- piration should be employed in cases of pleural effusion, and if ascites occur the abdoinen may be tapped. Mediastinal and other Intrathoracic Growths The following growths have been met with in the chest:—Carcinoma and sarcoma in all their forms; lymphadenoma; enlargement of lym- phatic glands, either simple, tuberculous, or malignant; gumma; extension downwards of an enlarged thyroid ; hypertrophy of, or tumour arising from, the thymus ; cysts, dermoid, con- genital, or hydatid] fibroma, osteoma, enchon- droma, or lipoma; actinomycosis. Owing to the difficulty of distinguishing clinically between mediastinal tumours and other intrathoracic growths, it has been thought well to treat them together under a common heading. That this is a real difficulty is shown by the fact that even at the necropsy it is often impossible to be absolutely certain whether the growth started in the mediastinum and spread outwards, or whether the converse occurred. The great majority of the growths in the chest are of a malignant nature (sarcoma or carcinoma). Hospital statistics would suggest that intrathoracic growths occur more frequently than is really the case ] this is probably due to the fact that owing to their duration and diffi- culty of diagnosis, a large proportion of these cases gravitate to the hospitals. During the years 1884 to 1898 inclusive 46 cases of intra- thoracic growths were admitted into the West- minster Hospital; in the same period 16,591 medical cases were admitted—giving, therefore, a proportion of 1 to 360. Etiology. — Owing to the confusion which has existed in the past in the nomenclature of new formations, it is difficult to speak with any degree of certainty as to the various etiological factors. It may, however, be stated that sarco- mata occur at any period of life ; they are fre- quently met with in children, and they have been seen in infants. On the other hand, car- cinomata are practically confined to persons of middle age or of advanced years, and the probability is that, reckoning the number of cases per mille of the living, cancer will be found to increase in frequency with every year of life. If, however, all forms of intrathoracic growths are lumped together, the majority of cases occur in the middle period of life— i.e. between thirty and fifty (26 cases out of 46). In the preceding decade, viz., twenty to thirty, there were 10 cases; under twenty years of age, 3 cases; and over fifty, 7 cases. Statistics of cases of intrathoracic malignant disease in the Westminster Hospital show that males were affected almost thrice as often as females (33 to 13). This is almost exactly the proportion in the statistics collected by Dr. Vincent Harris (109 to 47). Heredity has a certain amount of influence in favouring the onset of malignant disease in the thorax as elsewhere.234 MEDIASTINUM, THE As regards other etiological factors, such as blows and exposure to cold, there is no evidence that they have any effect in starting the disease, though they may possibly have been the means of directing attention to it. Locality seems to exercise considerable influ- ence on the occurrence of mediastinal growths ; in some parts they are decidedly rare, and in others they are common. According to Hesse, 75 per cent of the miners engaged in the mines of the Schneeberg die from " cancer of the lung " spreading from the root. Microscopical examina- tion showed that the growths were lympho- sarcomatous. Dr. Steven considers fibroma as a rheumatic manifestation. With respect to the starting-point of the growth it may spring from any of the structures contained in the chest, e.g. the bronchial glands, remains of thymus, fat, or connective tissue, oesophagus, trachea, lung, pleura, pericardium, or periosteum of sternum or ribs. There seems to be no tendency for one side of the chest to be affected more frequently than the other. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—Though for the sake of convenience all the intrathoracic growths have been grouped together, it must be remembered that the tumours of the medi- astinum, lung, and pleura have certain more or less well-defined characteristics. Owing to the difficulty which frequently exists in recognising the primary seat of the disease, it may be difficult to decide in which region the growth started, and many cases have doubtless been recorded as examples of primary malignant disease, whereas they were of secondary origin. Tumours of the mediastiniun, usually lympho- sarcomata, are more frequently primary than those of the other regions, about one-half be- longing to this category. By lympho-sarcoma is meant a round-celled sarcoma, taking its origin from the lymphatic glands of the chest. Dr. Steven points out that the term lymphadenoma (Hodgkin's disease), often used to designate this growth, is not applicable to a tumour which may be regarded as essentially a local manifes- tation, whether liable to metastasis or not, and in which the constitutional conditions associated with Hodgkin's disease are absent. When a mediastinal tumour occuis in connection with Hodgkin's disease it represents a comparatively insignificant part of the whole affection. Lym- pho-sarcomatous tumours of the mediastinum sometimes attain an enormous size, weighing many pounds. As the new growth invades the normal tissues it produces little or no change in them; it infiltrates them, and they gradually disappear. Ulceration of blood-vessels or tissues does not as a rule occur, nor is bone so frequently eroded as is the case of aneurysm. Secondary sarcoma of the mediastinum is of comparatively little importance; when it does occur it has probably spread from the lung. Primary cancer of the mediastinum is un- common, and is usually too small to give rise to any definite physical signs. It almost always originates in the posterior mediastinum in con- nection with the trachea, bronchi, or oesophagus. Epithelioma (squamous-celled carcinoma) is the usual form. Secondary cancer of the medi- astinum is also rare; this region is usually affected by continuity rather than by metastasis. Cancer is the most freqiient of primary growths of the lung. When affecting the body of the lung it usually occurs as a single mass, which may very exceptionally be of considerable size, sometimes weighing as much as from six to nine pounds; nodules may form in the lung- due to secondary infection from the main growth. Cancer affecting the body of the lung is of the soft or encephaloid variety of spheroidal-celled carcinoma. Cancer, however, most commonly starts from the root of the lung, hence the condition is often overlooked until far advanced. Cancer starting from the root of the lung usually contains much fibrous tissue, and, according to Coats, presents in many cases the features of the cylinder-celled epithelioma. Owing to the fibrosis met with in these cases the lung on the affected side is usually contracted. Secondary cancer of the lung is much more frequent than primary cancer. The nodviles scattered through the lung are sometimes so small that they suggest miliary tuberculosis. The secondary growths resemble in their struc- ture the primary tumour. In its growth cancer invades and destroys the tissues with which it comes in contact, and may even ulcerate through the wall of the aorta. If a main bronchus be involved by the growth the hing may become consolidated and riddled with small cavities which are filled with pus, thus resembling a tuberculous lung, and empyema may also occur. Cavitation is sometimes brought about by the degeneration and breaking down of cancerous masses. Gangrene of the lung, due to implica- tion of the pulmonary plexus in the cancerous growth rather than to direct pressure, is one of the modes of termination. Cancer starting in the lung may spread in various directions to the pleurse and pericardium, and may even involve the heart. Erosion of the vertebrae may occur, but the paraplegia met with in malignant disease of the lung is generally due to secondary deposit in the spinal canal. Primary sarcoma of the lung is very much less common than primary cancer; when the lung is affected it is usually by direct extension from lympho-sarcoma of the mediastinal glands, or as a secondary deposit. Secondary sar- coma occurs in the form of multiple tumours resembling in structure the primary growth. Secondary deposits within the chest are more frequently sarcomatous than cancerous. Endothelioma is the most common form of primary cancer of the pleura ; it presents theMEDIASTINUM, THE 235 appearance of a diffuse cicatrix-like thickening of the pleura. Secondary growths, resembUng in their struc- ture the primary manifestation, occur especially after carcinoma of the mammse, the thyroid, the oesophagus, or the stomach. Sarcoma confined to the pleural cavity is very rare. I have described a case in which the left cavity was occupied by a huge growth which had displaced the heart to the right of the sternum. Symptoms.—The mode of onset of an intra- thoracic growth is at times very sudden, and the patients are supposed to have pneumonia, plevirisy, pericarditis, or acute affections. In the majority of cases, however, the symptoms develop in an insidious manner, and the constant cough and gradual loss of flesh may suggest phthisis. The symptoms of a mediastinal tumour are usually much more pronounced than those of a new growth in the lungs. In the latter case it may be that only at the necropsy is the growth discovered, the symptoms being too obscure during life to attract attention to the lungs. Irrespective of the nature of the growth, its symptoms depend almost entirely upon the effect of pressure on the organs and tissues with which it comes in contact. Pain is one of the early symptoms, being present in at least half the cases, and is met with in the majority of the cases at some stage or other. It varies in character, being usually of a dull aching character, but it is occasionally of a sharp neuralgic or pleuritic nature. In some cases there are paroxysms of pain closely simulating an anginal attack. In cases in which there is pressure upon and erosion of the vertebrse, very severe and continuous pain, of a dull boring character, is complained of. Dyspnoea.—Sooner or later in the course of an intrathoracic growth shortness of breath occurs. It may only attract tlie patient's at- tention when he is exerting himself, or it may be so severe as to give rise to orthopnoea, and incapacitate the patient from taking any exer- tion — even turning over in bed may cause dangerous symptoms. Dyspnoea may be con- tinuous or paroxysmal. The former is more common where there is direct pressure on the trachea, a main bronchus, or the lung itself; the latter where the dyspnoea is due to irritation of, or pressure on nerves — the vagus, and its branches. The importance of recognising a double stenosis of the air-passage has to be borne in mind when tracheotomy for the relief of dyspnoea is being discussed. There may be, for example, stenosis at the glottis from bilateral abductor paralysis, and in the trachea from direct pressure of the growth. Tracheo- tomy, of course, would only relieve the former condition. The size and rapidity of the growth of the tumour will greatly influence the amount of dyspnoea. Congh is an inconstant symptom; in some cases it is absent altogether, in others it is an early and persistent symptom. The larger the tumour and the quicker it grows, the greater is the tendency to cough. The cough frequently resembles that met with in aneurysm, being of a changing character, or it may occur in paroxysms such as are seen in whooping-cough, and it often causes the patient much distress. The expectoration is usually scanty, and consists of a little frothy or viscid, glairy mucus. The sputa are not infrequently muco-purulent, but they are not nummular as in phthisis. The expectoration may be streaked or tinged with blood, and it sometimes resembles red-currant jelly, but pro- fuse hsemoptysis is a rare occurrence. Portions of a new growth have occasionally been detected in the sputum, and the recogni- tion of an hydatid or dermoid cyst may be facili- tated by the presence of booklets, or portions of the cyst, or of hairs respectively in the expectoration. Hoarseness, if temporary, may be simply of catarrhal origin, but if permanent, it is gener- ally due to pressure on one of the recurrent laryngeal nerves or vagus, giving rise to com- plete recurrent paralysis and consequent fixation of the corresponding cord in the cadaveric posi- tion. In consequence of the phonatory waste of air, fatigue in speaking is soon experienced. The hoarseness in these cases is so characteristic that the skilled ear readily recognises it. The assistance given by a laryngoscopic ex- amination is oftentimes most valuable; it should, therefore, be a part of the routine ex- amination in all thoracic cases. It has to be remembered that the laryngoscope will show signs of intrathoracic pressure which are not forthcoming in any other way. The first effect of pressure on the pneumo-gastric or recurrent laryngeal nerve is to cause paralysis of the abductor muscle on the corresponding side; this can only be detected by the laryngoscope, as owing to the vocal cord being in the mesial line there is usually little or no alternation in the voice, and dyspnoea is not commonly present. Dysphagia is most frequently met with in the case of tumours growing in the posterior mediastinum. A mass of cancerous glands in this situation may encircle and compress the oesophagus, and eventually lead to complete stenosis of this tube and consequent death from starvation. Vomiting and gastric pain may be caused by irritation of the vagus from pressure of the new growth, and asthmatic paroxysms may own a similar origin. Hiccough due to irritation of the phrenic nerves may be a troublesome symptom. Pres- sure on the sympathetic is evinced by an altera- tion in the pupil on the affected side; the first236 MEDIASTINUM, THE effect is generally to cause dilatation of the pupil, to be followed after a time by contrac- tion. This symptom is not so common as in the case of aneurysm. Unilateral sweating is another occasional symptom of new growth in the thorax. The pulse gives little or no information in cases of intrathoracic tumour. Pressure of a growth on the innominate or either subclavian may lead to loss of the radial pulse on the affected side, but inequality of the radial pulse is much less frequently met with in the case of intrathoracic growths than in aneurysms. Temperature. — Independently of changes brought about in the lungs, pleura, or peri- cardium, by pressure and irritation of the growth, an elevation of temperature is not a symptom of intrathoracic growth, with two exceptions, viz., a rapidly growing malignant growth, and lymphadenoma. In the latter disease there are curious alternations of periods of high and low temperature without any obvious cause. These alternations are so characteristic that they may be of diagnostic value. There is nothing very characteristic in the general symptoms of intrathoracic growth; even when they are of a cancerous nature the patients may retain the appearance of health, and may not present any symptom of the cancerous cachexia, i.e. peculiar tint of skin, wasting, and aspect of sufiering. Usually, however, there are loss of appetite and impaired digestion, leading to gradually increasing debility and failure of nutrition. The position assumed by the patient varies very much according to the size and situation of the growth. If it be complicated by effusion into the pleural cavity, the patient generally lies towards the affected side. As a general rule, the patient takes the position which will most relieve the root of the lung from pressure. Physical Signs.—The physical signs of an intrathoracic growth taken by themselves are often very obscure and misleading; they should always be considered in connection with the symptoms, and the manner in which they develop should be studied. It must be re- membered that physical signs are most marked in the case of tiimours of the anterior medi- astinum ; a tumour seated in the centre of the lung, and surrounded by healthy lung, will naturally give rise to hardly any physical signs. On inspection, a most characteristic appearance is enlargement of veins. Should the superior cava be compressed the whole of the veins of the upper part of the chest, neck, head, and upper extremities may be distended, and there may be more or less oedema in the same regions, or the pressure may be confined to the innominate vein and consequent limitation of the enlarged veins to one side. Pressure on the vena azygos may lead to pleural effusions, or to filling of the veins in the lower part of the chest, the current of blood being from below upwards. If the smaller azygos vein be compressed there will be dilatation of the superficial veins of the lower half of the thorax, especially on the left side. In some cases the venous obstruction may be so great as for death to be precipitated by the embarrassment of the cerebral circulation. It will be noted that veins suffer much more from the pressure of a tumour than do the arteries, and signs of arterial obstruction are quite un- common. The next point to attract attention is any irregularity or local bulging of the chest. Growths in the posterior mediastinum, unless of a huge size and involving the whole of the pleural cavity, do not usually cause any bulging. In some cases of intrathoracic carcinoma, espe- cially if of the scirrhous variety, there may be retraction of the chest-wall. This point requires to be emphasised, as limitations of mischief to the apex of the lung with contraction might lead to the erroneous diagnosis of fibroid phthisis. Displacement of the heart is another condition which is frequently seen in the case of large mediastinal growths. Lateral displace- ment of the trachea has been recorded as result- ing from the pressure of a mediastinal tumour. If the tumour be large, or if there be obstruc- tion to the main bronchus, impaired mobility will usually be detected on the affected side. In malignant disease of the pleura nodules may be recognised on the surface of the chest. The existence of enlarged glands in the supra- clavicular and axillary regions will necessarily be of considerable diagnostic importance; in some cases the glands are of characteristic stony hardness. The presence of the primary disease may be detected. On palpation, vocal fremitus will be found to vary with the amount of pressure on the bronchus and the nature of the growth between the chest-wall and the lung. If the bronchus be completely compressed vocal fremitus will be lost; if, on the other hand, there be a solid growth intervening between the chest-wall and the bronchus, but without compressing the bronchus, vocal fremitus is stated to be increased. In some cases a pulsation may be transmitted through a soft tumour, and this may simulate an aneurysm. Percussion gives valuable information as to the presence of an intrathoracic tumour, as in the absence of dulness over some part of the chest-wall it is difficult to affirm the existence of a tumour, though it may be suspected. Irregularity in the area of dulness, or a dull note above with resonance below, suggests the presence of a growth in the lung. Especially in cases of new growths in the anterior medias- tinum, the dulness may transgress the middle line. Where a large growth, acting much inMEDIASTINUM, THE 237 the same way as a pleuritic effusion, presses the lung up to the apex, skodaic resonance may be obtained in the infraclavicular region. The absolute dulness and feeling of increased tactile resistance are characteristic of a new growth in the chest. Limitation of dulness to the upper lobe of the lung is in favour of a growth. On auscultation the most characteristic sign of an intrathoracic tumour is the obliteration of all breath sounds over an area of the lung ; this is especially the case when the affected area is at the apex or middle of the lung, as then the dulness is not likely to be confounded with that produced by pleural effusion. If a main bronchus be partially compressed the breath sounds over the affected part may be feeble or have a bronchial character. Feeble blowing expiration is rather significant of the pressure of a new growth. In cases of pressure on the trachea or bronchi well-marked stridor may be heard. In the event of destructive changes taking place in the lung, as the resiilt of the pressure of the growth, rales of various kinds may be heard. If the bronchus be completely compressed vocal resonance will be abolished, but consolidation of the lung from a new growth may cause the vocal resonance to become bronchophonic. Diagnosis.—If there be the history of primary malignant disease, as, for instance, cancer of the breast, the existence of symptoms and signs indicative of disease within the chest should at once awaken the suspicion of a secondary intra- thoracic growth. If the apex be primarily affected, both the physical signs and the symptoms may suggest phthisis. In distinguishing an intrathoracic new growth from tuberculous or chronic pneumonic consolida- tion, it is important to be on the lookout for evidence of pressure or irregularity of the surface of the chest, or increase of vocal resonance or vibration limited to some one spot. A patchy dulness is also very significant of a new growth. A low temperature would be rather in favour of cancer as against tuberculous disease, but increase of temperature may attend the rapid growth and diffusion of cancer through the system. The failure to detect tubercle bacilli in the sputum would also be a point as against phthisis. In cases of disseminated small growths through- out the lung irritation of the bronchi, giving rise to symptoms of bronchitis, will be the chief manifestation of the disease. Hence in a middle- aged person the persistence of signs of bronchial irritation, without sufficient discoverable cause, should suggest the suspicion of malignant disease. In some of these cases dyspnoea, with suffocative attacks, is a marked symptom. A large, quickly growing, soft tumour, such as a round-celled sarcoma, may completely fill the pleural cavity, cause the lung to become collapsed, and displace the heart, and may very closely simulate the physical signs of a pleuritic effusion ; indeed, there may be no sign wanting which we are accustomed to find in this latter condition. Moreover, in some of the recorded cases the history is curiously like that met with in pleural effusion. I have reported such a case. Frequently, however, the existence of dilated veins over the chest, with local oedema and the presence of nodules or enlarged glands, will give a clue to the correct interpretation of the condi- tion in question. The only certain way to arrive at the diagnosis is to incise the chest-wall, and should a fluid not be found a small portion of the growth may be removed for examination. The want of correspondence between the physical signs is sometimes helpful. For example, great displacement of the heart to the right of the sternum, with dulness or absence of respira- tory murmur confined to the lower lobe of the left lung, could hardly be accounted for by pleuritic effusion, but would suggest a morbid growth invading the lung and heart from the posterior mediastinum. A double pleurisy is in favour of either tuber- culosis or a new growth. The withdrawal of hsemorrhagic fluid on aspirating the chest should always raise the suspicion of pleural or pericardial effusion due to malignant disease ; though a hsemorrhagic exudation is perhaps more common in tubercu- losis and in malignant disease, the fluid may be clear serum. A purulent effusion is hardly ever met with in these cases. Microscopical examination of the fluid with the idea of finding cancer cells is almost always without result. If, on puncturing the chest, no fluid be drawn, the point of the needle should be carefully ex- amined, as a small portion of the growth may be found sticking to it. To distinguish a chronic pleural effusion or a thickened pleura from malignant disease of the pleura is generally, at the commencement, a matter of impossibility; time, however, will usually clear up the difficulty. The diagnosis of an intrathoracic growth from thoracic aneurysm is oftentimes out of the question. In both cases we have to depend upon the symptoms and signs due to pressure for the recognition of the tumour within the chest, and if the aneurysm be deeply seated we are deprived of the special characters of the aneurysmal tvimour. Age and sex may be of assistance in the diagnosis ; under twenty-five years of age and in females one should think of new growths rather than of an aneurysm, whereas in middle-aged males with degenerate vessels and history of syphilis, aneurysm is the most likely cause for the symptoms. In favour of a growth is the more steady progress of the disease and the gradual evolution of symptoms, from the growth extending inMEDIASTINUM, THE 238 various directions at the same time. On the other hand, aneurysms usually take a definite direction in the course of their development. The presence of a murmur over the dull area points to an aneurysm, but the pressure of a new growth upon the aorta has been known to give rise to a systolic murmur. The accentu- ated aortic second sound or diastolic thud and tracheal tugging are characteristic of an aneurysm, and are not met with in growths. As already stated, pulsation may be trans- mitted through a soft tumour, and so simulate an aneurysm, while on the other hand there may be an aneurysm without piilsation. Nerves are much more likely to be compressed by an aneurysm, hence irritative and paralytic nervous symptoms rather point to this condition. Great and rapid extension of dulness, especially if combined with marked oedema and dilatation of veins, is in favour of tumour as against aneurysm. Great distension of the superficial veins is, however, usually seen only in growths of con- siderable size and at a late period of their history. Hence the sign is not of much use in diagnosis at an early stage. Pain is a more constant and prominent symp- tom in aneurysm than in growths. Aneurysms are more prone to cause absorption of bone and an external tumour than is the case with growths. The presence of enlarged glands in the neck or axilla, or nodules on the chest-wall, would be almost decisive evidence in favour of malignant disease. Hsemorrhage may be met with both in cancer of the lung and aneurysm; in the former it is usually slight, and death generally follows earlier in cases of hsemorrhage due to aneurysm. Death from htemorrhage is not at all uncommon in aneurysm, whereas it is very rare as a con- sequence of cancer of the lung. The prolonged pressure of an aneurysm upon a bronchvis, causing retention of secretion in the tubes, may give rise to fibrosis and chronic inflammatory changes in the parenchyma of the lung, which closely simulate a new growth, thus giving rise to further difficulty in the diagnosis. To sum up, signs of extreme pressure point to malignant disease rather than to aneurysm. A mediastinal tumour, such as a sarcoma, adherent to the pericardium might be mistaken for pericardial effusion. The following points would be of service in the differential diagnosis : (1) The position of the apex beat—in effusion this tends to be displaced upwards and to the left; (2) bulging of the intercostal space is in favour of effusion; (3) in effusion the heart sounds are distant and feeble, and there may be pericardial friction sound. It must be remembered that a mediastinal growth may give rise to a pericardial effusion. For differential diagnosis between mediastinal abscess and new growth, see "Abscess of Mediastinum." It is highly probable that with increasing experience in the use of the X-rays they will be found of great value in the dia- gnosis of intrathoracic growths. These rays have already facilitated the recognition of intrathoracic aneurysms and enlarged bronchial glands, but until they have been systematically employed in a series of cases of suspected intra- thoracic growths it will not be possible to gauge their exact value. Prognosis.—It is a very difficult matter to state with any degree of precision the mean length of life after malignant disease has started in the thorax. The early symptoms and signs are apt to be inconclusive, so that it is impossible in many cases to determine the date at which the disease commenced. Walshe, in cases of cancer of the lung, gives a mean duration of 13"2 months, a maximum of 27 months, and a minimum of 3'5 months, and recent statistics are fairly in accord with these figures. Exceptional cases are, however, met with, as, for instance, that of a child aged five, who died in the course of five or six weeks from the commencement of symptoms. At the necropsy the whole of the anterior mediastinum was occupied by a mass which completely enveloped the pericardium and compressed the aorta and large veins. In secondary cancerous deposits the outlook is very bad, as death usually occurs within a few weeks. Death in cases of intrathoracic growth is usually due to gradual exhaustion, or it may be brought about by one of the complications, such as pneumonia, gangrene, or oedema of the lung, pneumo-thorax, pleural, or pericardiac effusion or hfemorrhage. In the case of medi- astinal tumours, suffocation, either due to direct pressure on the trachea, or to paralysis of the abductors of the cords, may occur. A case has been recorded in which sudden death from suffocation occurred during vomiting, owing to a tumour in the anterior mediastinum being forced upwards and becoming impacted between the sternum and vertebral column, so that the trachea was compressed. Treatment.—In these diseases, as in many others, our power of diagnosis far exceeds that of treatment. We know of no means of pre- venting intrathoracic growths, if we except the early and complete removal of malignant disease affecting other organs; our aim must therefore be limited to attempts at mitigating the suffer- ing of the patient. Iodide of potassium in full doses often gives relief, and in exceptional cases the symjDtoms have disappeared under its use : the doubt arises in these cases as to whether a gumma was not the cause of the trouble. Should the iodide improve the patient's condition, it might be well to try in addition the inunction of mercurial ointment.MEDIASTINUM, THE 239 Arsenic in large doses may also be tried; it certainly is of benefit in some cases of sarcoma occurring externally. One of the most annoying of the patient's troubles is an irritating, fruitless cough. This may be relieved by the adminis- tration of a combination of the hydrochlorates of morphine and apomorphine in small doses. If this does not give relief the phosphate of codeine in to 2 grain doses may be tried, or heroin in doses of gr. several times daily. Should the cough become paroxysmal and very distressing to the patient, subcutaneous injec- tions of morphine in combination with atropine may be required. Morphine will also be neces- sary in case of great pain and restlessness. The spasmodic attacks of dyspnoea are sometimes relieved by the inhalation of amyl-nitrite, or the internal administration of nitroglycerine. Occasionally it will be found that great relief is obtained from the inhalation of chloroform; 5-minim capsules may be used for this purpose. In protracted dyspnoea, especially if attended with much cyanosis, oxygen may be inhaled with advantage—about 10 to 15 minutes every two or three hours, or oftener if necessary. If there be great venous obstruction, relief may sometimes be obtained by venesection, cupping, or leeching ; unfortunately, however, the relief is generally only temporary. The oedema of the arms met with in soine of these cases may be relieved by carefully bandaging the arms with a flannel bandage. The application of small, flying blisters will frequently relieve the superficial pain of which the patient complains, or the part may be painted with a mixture of two parts of extract of belladonna and one of glycerine. Rubbing in anodyne or stimulating liniments, such as a mixture of equal parts of the liniments of aconite, belladonna, and chloroform, or the linimentum camphorge ammoniatum, may be tried. If fluid be present in the pleural cavity and the patient be suffering from dyspnoea, the chest should be aspirated. Sudden and protracted sleep is sometimes the result of aspirations in these cases. As a rule, when the fluid is blood- stained recurrence after aspiration is rapid; but cases have been recorded in which the patient has regained sufficient health to enable him to return to work for some months. The same precautions must be taken in as- pirating the chest in cases of effusion secondary to a new growth as are adopted in ordinary pleuritic effusion, and the same kinds of risk are experienced; for instance, after drawing off sixty ounces of clear serum in a case of lymph- adenoma of the anterior mediastinum, death occurred half an hour later from suffocation due to albuminous expectoration. Should dyspnoea be an urgent symptom the question of tracheotomy may have to be con- sidered. If on laryngoscopic examination, it be found that the glottis is in its normal con- dition, neither oedema of the larynx, paralysis of the abductors of the cords, nor other causes of stenosis of the larynx being present, together with an absence of respiratory excursions of the larynx, then it may be definitely stated that tracheotomy would be useless. If, on the other hand, there may be some obstruction at the glottis, the possibility of a second stenosis, as from direct pressure of a growth upon the trachea, must be borne in mind. If the signs of obstruction in the larynx are distinct, and the evidence of pressure lower down somewhat dovibtful, then the patient should have the benefit of the doubt, and tracheotomy should be performed. It is but seldom that surgical treatment is of any avail in tumour of the mediastinum. Cases of hydatid disease have, however, been operated on successfully ; the difficulty is to arrive at the diagnosis. The use of the trochar and cannula, and more especially of the aspirator, is to be deprecated : the method of treatment of hydatid of the lung is by free incision. The result obtained by injections of Coley's fluid (toxins of streptococcus erysipelatosus and •bacillus prodigiosus) have at present, at all events in this country, been very disappointing. The treatment by injection is distressing to the patient and not free from danger to life; still if there be any possibility of arresting the onward progress of a malignant growth, some jjatients will be found willing to risk pain and immediate peril to life in the hope of cure. Notes on Certain Tumours Tuberculous enlargement of the mediastinal glands is probably the most frequent of the tumours met with in that region, but they rarely attain sufficient size to give rise to defi- nite symptoms or physical signs. See vol. ii. p. 17 for affections of the bronchial glands. Gumma of the lung is chiefly met with in advilts, though it has been seen in the new born. The average period for the lung affection to appear is from four to five years after infection ; but it may occur earlier than two years, or much later than ten years. A gumma usually occurs as a round, well-defined tumour, varying in size from a pea to an egg; the more recent specimens are greyish white or greyish red in colour, and of firm consistence. The older ones are of a yellow colour and have undergone softening in the centre ; cavities may eventually form in the lung substance, which later on may shrink and even close up. Gummata of the lung seldom occur singly, but are scattered through one or both lungs, the site of predilec- tion being the middle and lower lobes of the lungs. For extension of a thyroid tumour into the chest see article on " Thyroid Gland, Medical." Enlargement of the thymus occasionally acts240 MEDIASTINUM, THE as a tumour of the anterior mediastinum. It may cause spasm of the glottis—thymic asthma —or exercise pressure on the trachea. In a case recorded by Dr. H. D. Rolleston, occurring in a boy aged six years, death was sudden, and was probably due to dilatation of the heart arising from compression of the vagi. Dermoid cysts containing hair and teeth have been met with in the mediastinum. Sometimes they ca\ise no symptoms, but they may set up empyema by opening into the pleura, or by extension into the lung give rise to haemoptysis and phthisis. Congenital cysts occasionally occur, usually in connection with the oesophagus. They have been found to be composed of unstriped muscular tissue and are lined with ciliated epithelium. They are filled with a glairy fluid. After the liver, the lungs and pleura are most freqiiently affected by hydatid disease, but thoiigh conmion in Australia it does not often occur in this country. A small cyst may cause so little discomfort as to be overlooked. With increasing growth, pressure symptoms are developed as the cyst is tense; hence gangrene of the lung and troubles due to obstruction of the bronchi may arise. The occurrence of bronchitic symptoms and profuse haemoptysis may lead to the disease being mistaken for phthisis. The physical signs of hydatid disease of the lung are generally those of a localised empyema or of a solid tumour. A circumscribed bulging of the chest-wall, with dulness which may transgress the median line, but does not extend to the apex, and the possible detection of fluctuation and hydatid thrill, indicate, according to Bristowe, the possibility of a pvilmonary hydatid. As a rule, however, the diagnosis is only made after one or more daughter cysts have been expectorated, or after booklets have been detected in fluid drawn off by an exploratory puncture. The prognosis in hydatid tumour is better than in other mediastinal tumours. Its dura- tion is greater than that of malignant disease, and recovery has been recorded after expectora- tion of hydatid cysts. Moreover, this is one of the few cases in which surgical interference is likely to be attended with success. Of the innocent tumours fibroma and osteoma have been met with in lung and pleura, enchon- droma in the lung alone, and lipoma only in the pleura. These are all of pathological interest rather than of clinical importance. A considerable number of cases of actino- mycosis of the lungs has been recorded. The fungus may enter the body through the respiratory mucous membrane, and, setting up suppuration, may suggest tuberculosis or empyema. In contradistinction to phthisis the apex is rarely involved. It may also simulate sarcoma of the lung. The diagnosis can only be made by detecting the characteristic ray- fungus in the expectoration, or in the fluid removed from the pleural cavity or from a sinus in the chest-wall (see "Actinomycosis," vol. i. p. 52). HEMORRHAGE INTO MEDIASTINUM. Among the rarer conditions aff"ecting the mediastina may be mentioned extravasation of blood into them. This has been recorded as the result of the rupture of an aneurysm. In a case of extravasation of blood into the posterior medi- astinum, the principal symptoms were ansemia and vomiting, the latter being probably due to irritation of the vagus nerves set up by pressure of the effused blood. Medical Ethics. See Ethics, Medical ; Medicine, Medical Practitioner. iVIedicai Jurisprudence. See Medicine, Forensic. Medical Practitioner. See Medi- cine, Medical Practitioner ; Medicine, Foren- sic ; Post-mortem Methods ; Vital Statistics. Medication.—Treatment by medicines; impregnation with medicinal substances, e.g. medicated wines, sweets, etc. See Morphino- MANiA and Allied Drug Habits {Cocaine Habit). Medicine, Forensic. Definition ...... 241 History ....... 241 Certification of Deaths and Legal Pro- cedure 241 England 241 Scotland ...... 242 Fees 242 Post-mortem Reports and Examinations 243 Dying Declarations .... 244 Identity of Living and the Dead . 244 The Signs of Death .... 245 Cooling of Body .... 245 Rigor Mortis ..... 245 Hypostasis. Post-mortem Lividity . 246 Putrefaction . . . . .247 Wounds and Injuries— General Considerations . . . 248 Causes of Death . . . .249 Accident, Suicide, or Murder . . 250 Ante-aTid Post-mortem Wounds. . 251 Various Kinds of Wounds— Abrasions, Bruises and Contusions; 251 Incised, Punctured, Lacerated; Ruptures, Fractures . . . 254 Wounds from Fire-Arms . . . 255 Burns 257 Death from Lightning and Electric Currents 258 Death from Starvation . . . 258 Death from Cold and Exposure . . 258MEDICINE, FORENSIC 241 Death from Asphtxia— General Considerations . . .259 Hanging, Strangulation, Throttling, 260 Drowning, Suffocation, Overlaying, 262 CO2 and CO Poisoning . . .263 Rape. Examination of Seminal Stains 263 Pregnancy and Delivery . . .265 Criminal Abortion . . . .266 Infanticide 267 Examination of Blood-Stains . 269 See also Abortion {Medico-legal Aspects) ; Adipocbre ; Asphyxia ; Atrophy, Infantile {Medico-legal) ; Burns and Scalds {Medico-legal Aspects); Civil Incapacity ; Gonorrhceal In- fection {Medico - legal Aspects); Hypnotism ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, General Treatment ; Lunacy ; Puerperium, Physiology {Evidences of Recent Delivery); Toxicology ; Vice ; Wounds. Medical Jurisprudence, Forensic Medicine, Legal Medicine, are terms used to denote that science which deals with the application of medicine, in all its branches, to the purposes of the law, not only in connection with criminal offences, but also in the determination of ques- tions arising under the civil law, affecting the liberty and rights of the individual. State medicine is a term of wider significance, and includes not only medical jurisprudence, but also hygiene or the science which treats of the relation between medicine and the laws affecting the public health. A general knowledge of medical jurisprudence is necessary for every medical man engaged in the practice of his profession, in order to enable him to fulfil his responsibilities and duty to the public, and at the same time to safeguard his own interests and professional reputation. No active member of the profession can en- tirely exclude or prevent cases arising in his practice which involve questions of a medico- legal nature, and which may entail his appear- ance in a court of law ; and it must also be re- membered that, however well qualified a doctor may be for the ordinary treatment of disease, it by no means follows that he is therefore capable of adapting his knowledge to the special require- ments of the law, so that it may be of assistance in the elucidation of crime and the administra- tion of justice, unless he has studied in medical jurisprudence the nature and objects of the evidence required by the law under various circumstances. Historical.—It was not until the sixteenth century that the necessity for medical evidence in the elucidation of various questions connected with personal injuries—infanticide, poisoning, pregnancy, and violent death—was recognised ; and it is to Germany that the credit is due of having first introduced, in the year 1507, a penal code in which the claims of medicine to be heard in such cases received recognition. VOL. VI Germany also provided the first systematic teaching on the subject, in the University of Leipzig, about the middle of the seventeenth century. Many writings upon medico-legal sub- jects appeared in Germany, France, and Italy during the next century, but it was practically not until the close of the eighteenth century that the subject began to assume definite form, and came to be based upon sound principles. To France, especially to Fodore, Orfila, and Devergie, must be ascribed much of the credit of first placing the teaching of forensic medicine upon a more scientific foundation. In England the subject was little known, and nowhere systematically taught, until the in- stitution by Government of a professorship of medical jurisprudence in Edinburgh University in the year 1803. Dr. Duncan was appointed the first professor, but his father had previously, in 1801, delivered lectures in the University upon the subject. From this time onward medical jurisprudence continued to be regularly taught in Edinburgh, and gradually it has come to form a compulsory subject of study and examination in all the medical schools of the United Kingdom. Certification of Deaths and Legal Procedure in connection with Deaths from Violence.— Every registered practitioner must give a certificate as to the cause of death in any case in which he has been personally in attendance, provided he believes death to have been due to natural causes, and there is no suspicion to the contrary. It is not necessary that the medical man should have been present at the time of death, but he must have been in attendance on the deceased in his last illness. The certificate of death should be handed to a responsible relative or friend of the deceased. If a certificate is not furnished to the de- ceased's friends, the registrar may demand one to be forwarded to him. In all cases where death has been caused directly or indirectly by violence and is attended by suspicious circumstances, or when death has been sudden, or the cause of death is unknown, information should be sent to the authorities, and a certificate of death be withheld. In cases of fatal accident, it must be re- membered that these may form the subject of judicial proceedings, and therefore a certificate of death should only be given by a medical man after the authorities have had an opportunity of investigating the case. Caution in certifying such cases is all the more necessary when death takes place at a considerable interval of time after the accident, and the connection between the two occurrences is therefore not so apparent. Procedure in England and Ireland.—When a certificate of death is withheld for any of the above reasons, information should be given to the coroner or to the police. 16FORENSIC 242 MEDICINE, The coroner must inqiiire into all such cases of death, and he may issue an order for the attendance of any medical man at an inquest to give evidence as to the cause of death. An order of the coroner must be obeyed. Whether a medical man has been or has not been in attendance upon the deceased person, the coroner may order him to inspect the body, and then to appear at the inquest and give evidence ; or the coroner may order him to make a post-mortem examination when the circum- stances surrounding the death are suspicious, or any person is implicated in its causation. There are, no doubt, many cases of sudden death in which, by a simple inspection of the body taken along with the previous history of the deceased, it may be possible for a medical man to give a satisfactory explanation of the death; but, on the other hand, the proper and only conclusive method of determining the question is by a post-mortem examination, which it is in the power of the coroner to order in all cases. If, therefore, a medical man finds that he is unable to state the probable cause of death from a mere inspection of the body, he should inform the coroner, and throw the responsibility upon that official, of being satisfied with his evidence, such as it may be, or of ordering a post-mortem examination. Any order for a post-mortem examination should be in writing and signed by the coroner. Evidence at the inquest is given on oath. It is taken down in writing, and after being signed by the witness it forms his deposition, and becomes part of the evidence in any subsequent developments of the case. The medical witness is bound over, at the inquest, to appear in any further proceedings which may be instituted. In charges of man- slaughter or murder the medical witness will subsequently have to appear and give evidence in the Magistrates' Court, where under certain circumstances the cases may be disposed of, or the prisoner may be remitted for trial at the Assizes. In both these courts the witness is liable to be cross-examined, and his deposition will be in the hands of counsel for the defence as well as for the prosecution. It is therefore of great importance that statements made at the coroner's inquest should only be given after careful consideration, and with a due sense of responsibility. Any retraction of dogmatic statements made at the inquest may expose the witness to severe strictures upon his conduct. A witness is only bound to attend at court upon receiving a subpoena; but he must obey a subpoena, and only very exceptional circum- stances will excuse his attendance—such, for example, as serious illness, in which case a proper medical certificate stating the nature of the illness must be forwarded to the court. Urgent private affairs are not a sufficient excuse for disobeying a subpoena. The Fees to which a medical witness is en- titled are :—For inspection of a body, and giving evidence at an inquest, £1 : Is. For a post-mortem examination, and giving evidence at the inquest, £2 : 2s. Attendance at Magistrates' Court, 10s. 6d., if resident within three miles; if beyond this distance, £\ : Is. Attendance at Assize Court, £\ : Is. a day. Two shillings for every night away fi-om home, and second-class railway fare (first class if no second class). Sundays are not included. When a person has died in a public institution, hospital, infirmary, asylum, workhouse, etc., the medical officer is not entitled to any fee for attending an inquest; but if a dead body is brought into such institution, then the medical officer, on being duly summoned to give evidence, is entitled to the usual fee. Procedmx in Scotland.—There is no public inquiry into cases of sudden or violent death in Scotland (except in those falling under the Fatal Accidents Inquiry Act, 1895, and certain other statutes), the duties pertaining to the coroner being performed by a legal officer called the procurator-fiscal. All cases of sudden, suspicious, or violent death are inquired into by him, generally with the aid of the police in the first instance. He may give a certificate to the registrar as to the cause of death without requiring medical evidence; but in the majority of cases, in which there are no suspicious circumstances, he requests a medical man to furnish him with a "medical certificate." Such a certificate must be " on soul and conscience," and requires the medical man to state what, in his opinion, has been the probable cause of death from a simple inspection and external examination of the body, and from his knowledge of the circumstances attending the death; or, in other words, whether, in his opinion, death has been due to natural causes. The certificate should be couched in the following terms:— Place. Date. I hereby certify upon soul and conscience that on at I examined the body of (name) The body was that of a well-nourished, healthy, etc. person, apparently about years of age. (Any external appearances indicating disease, e.g. dropsy, etc., should be stated.) There were no marks of external violence. From the fore- going examination, and from a consideration of the circumstances of the case, I am of opinion that death was due to natural causes, namely to—e.g. syncope, the result of chronic disease of the heart. Signature.MEDICINE, FORENSIC 243 When the death is connected with circum- stances of a suspicious nature, the prociirator- fiscal orders a post-mortem examination, and generally associates two medical men for this object. The results of this examination are stated in the form of a Medical Report, which must be drawn up by them, and should be sent to the procurator-fiscal within forty-eight hours. Such a report must be on "soul and con- science "; it should contain only facts observed in the external and internal examination of the body, and, in the last paragraph, a simply ex- pressed opinion as to the cause of death. The report must be signed by both examiners. In the investigation of cases of death or of crime, the procurator-fiscal has the power to re- qiiire the attendance of a witness to be examined or " precognosced " by him regarding the case. It should be remembered that while only statements of facts observed must go into a medical report, the medical witness, in his pre- cognition, has abundant opportunity of express- ing opinions and theories as to the influence certain conditions present may have had in the causation of death, and as to the manner, etc., in which injuries have been inflicted. The medical report is a production in any criminal charge, whereas a precognition is simply for the use of the counsel of the party who has obtained it. The agent for the opposite side in any case has also a right to precognosce a witness on behalf of his client, and a request to this effect should never be refused in criminal cases; but the witness need only reply to questions, and is not bound to volunteer information. As a result of these primary investigations by the procurator-fiscal no further proceedings may be taken, or, on the other hand, a person may be indicted on a criminal charge. The case may be disposed of in the Sheriff Court, or, in more serious charges, it may go before the Circuit Court or High Court of Justiciary. In both instances the medical witnesses may be cited to appear, and such a citation must be obeyed. Fees.—For a medical certificate, £1 : Is. For a post-mortem examination and report, £2 : 2s. For attendance at Sheriff Court, £1 : Is. For attendance in the High Court or Circuit Court, £2 : 2s., or £3 : 3s. if the witness comes from a distance. £2 : 2s. is allowed for the previous day, if it was impossible for the citation to be obeyed by travelling from home on the day of the trial. There is no fixed scale for attendance in Police Courts, but as a rule a fee of 10s. 6d. to £1 : Is. is allowed. For a precognition a fee of £1 : Is. is paid. Post-mortem Examinations. — The following directions should be strictly attended to in making medico-legal post-mortem examina- tions. The medical examiner should have a written warrant from the coroner, or the procurator- fiscal, and should take it with him. No un- authorised or interested person should be present at the examination. Notes of the examination should be made at the time. The body must be identified, if possible, by at least two witnesses before commencing the dissection; the names of these witnesses must be noted. Every organ of the body must be examined, no matter how apparent the cause of death may seem. As a general rule all injured parts should be removed and preserved. In cases of suspected poisoning, absolutely clean, wide-mouthed bottles or jars should be provided before commencing the dissection. Each organ should be placed in a separate jar, securely closed, sealed, and labelled with the nature of the contents, the date, and signature of the examiners. The whole of the most important organs in cases of suspected poisoning should be removed, e.g. liver, kidnej'^s, brain, spleen, stomach, intestines, also any urine present in the bladder, and some of the blood. No preservative or antiseptic should be added. The various sub- stances removed should be handed over to the charge of the police after the examination, and a receipt obtained for them. No medical man should undertake an analysis in a case of suspected poisoning unless he is a practised chemist. In performing the dissection the external appearances presented by the body must first be noted, more especially, any marks of injury, these being carefully examined and described as to their size, position, condition of surrounding parts, etc.; also the presence or absence of any body temperature, rigor mortis, post-mortem lividity (all bruises must be incised so as to determine whether an actual extravasation of blood exists or merely hypostatic congestion), and signs of decomposition. These various phenomena may assist in determining the time when death occurred. It must be remembered that careless handling of a body after death may cause both external and internal injuries, or allow the contents of the stomach to find their way into the air- passages. Internal Examination.—Open the thorax and examine the heart in situ, then proceed to any cavity or part which is injured or in which you suspect to find the cause of death. Examine every cavity and all organs. (Unless specially indicated, e.g. in the case of certain poisons, and in death from tetanus, it is not essential in every case to examine the spinal cord.) The medical report should be written out at once and transmitted to the procurator-fiscal within two days. Both medical examiners must sign it; if they disagree, each must send a separate report.244 MEDICINE, FORENSIC The report should be in the following form :— Place. Date. We hereby certify upon soul and conscience that, by instructions of the procurator-fiscal of the county of on {date) at we examined the body of a (seoc) which was identified in our presence by and by as that of {name) External Appearances.—Genei'al conformation and appearance : rigidity, lividity, etc. ; marks of injury or violence. Internal Ajjpearances. — Thorax and air- passages : abdomen, head, etc. Opinion as to cause of death. Signatures. The language of the report should be simple and clear, technical terms being as far as possible avoided. Nothing but facts observed, and a concluding opinion as to the cause of death must appear in the report. The medical examiners are afforded an opportunity of explaining or exem- plifying any points or matters of opinion in their precognitions. If mistakes are made in a report, it is better to rewrite it, but otherwise all alterations must be initialled on the margin. In England a written report of a post-mortem examination is not submitted as a rvile—a verbal statement is made at the coroner's inquest, and this is taken down in writing and signed, form- ing the witnesses' deposition in the case. Medical reports in England do not require to be "on sold and conscience," but in Scotland this is essential in the case of all judicial certifi- cates and reports. Advanced decomposition of human remains should not be urged as an excuse for not per- forming a post-mortem examination. Valuable information may still be afforded in such cases. In cases of suspected murder, when a medical man is called in to inspect the body in the actual locus, he must note its position and all surrounding circumstances. Police officials should not be relied upon to perform this duty. In giving evidence in court a witness must remember that his evidence must be heard and understood by the jury, hence he should speak clearly and in language which will be intelligible to them. He can only refresh his memory from notes which have been taken at the time of his examination. There is no exception made in giving evidence as to matters of professional secrecy. While the witness may object to making known confidential statements or in- formation obtained professionally, he must obey the directions of the judge on such matters. Dying Declarations.—When a person who has suffered violence or injury of any kind is known to be dying, the medical attendant should at once inform the police of the fact, so that any declaration the patient desires to make may be taken down by the proper authority. Such a declaration is only admissible as evi- dence subsequently, provided the patient knew that death was imminent, and believed that all hope of recovery was gone, and provided that he was mentally in a condition to know the nature and full purport of his dying words. The medical attendant must satisfy himself of the existence of these three conditions. If there is no time to procure the proper legal function- aries, then the medical man should himself take down the declaration in the presence of two wit- nesses, being careful, however, not to prompt or suggest anything, but merely to write down the ipsissima verba and get the document signed, if possible, by the patient, and those present in the room. Identity. ...... 244 The Signs of Death .... 245 Cooling of the Body . . . .245 Rigor Mortis ..... 245 Hypostasis . . . . .246 Putrefaction . . . . .247 Identity.—In the case of dead bodies the identity must always, if possible, be determined before commencing a post-mortem examination, and as a rule this is done by relatives or friends of the deceased in the presence of the medical examiner. In the case of an unknown body, the medical examiner, in order to aid future identification, must carefully note and describe its external appearance in regard to clothing, ornaments, general conformation and nutrition, stature, features, distribution and colour of the hair, colour of the eyes, condition of the teeth, pres- ence of any deformities, cicatrices, tattoo marks, or peculiarities. Putrefaction naturally tends to destroy such evidence of identity, but even in advanced decomposition valuable data for identification may be obtained from clothing, hair, teeth, the presence of deformities, and from the skeleton, all of which resist resolution for long periods. Even when all the soft tissues have disappeared, the sex, age, stature, and the existence of any deformity of bone may be determined. Sex will be indicated by the general size, strength, and development of the skeleton, but more especially by an examination of the pelvis in the case of adults. The length of the hair may also afford an indication. The age of a skeleton must be determined by an examination of the lower jaw and of the teeth, the state of ossification of individual bones and of the cartilages. Cicatrices and Tattoo Marks.—It is generally held that injuries which have involved a de- struction of the true skin leave permanentFORENSIC 245 MEDICINE, cicatrices, while tattoo marks also, which have been produced by the introduction of insoluble pigments into the true skin, are also regarded as permanent, thus affording valuable evidence of identification. The determination of the identity of living persons is a matter for the police officer, except in rare instances where medical evidence is required on points relating to the presence or absence of cicatrices and disappearance of tattoo marks or deformities. The identification of criminals is now carried out in most countries in a systematic manner by means of Bertillon's method, which consists chiefly in taking and classifying certain measure- ments in each prisoner, e.g. the length and breadth of the head, the length of the left forefinger, forearm, and foot; or, secondly, by Galton's method of taking finger-prints, or im- pressions in ink of the patterns formed by the minute markings of the superficial layer of skin. Such patterns are constant and permanent throughout life, and differ in every individual. A combination of Bertillon's and Galton's system probably affords the best and most certain results. The Signs of Death.—The changes which occur in the body after death, or, as they have been called, the signs of death, are of great practical importance, not, however, inasmuch as they afford evidence of the actual existence of death, but because, from a careful consideration of the phenomena which occur in the body after death, we are enabled to solve or explain many questions of great moment and medico-legal significance. The determination of the existence of death need offer no difficulties to a medical man. The absolute cessation of respiration and of the heart's action for a period of five minutes be- tokens death. Only cases of the most profound syncope, and possibly of asphyxia, give rise to any doubt, which, however, can be set at rest by the use of the stethoscope. So-called cases of burial alive rest upon slender evidence, and are impossible where the existence of death has been certified by a properly qualified medical man. Changes in the position of limbs, hsemor- rhage from wounds, etc., and the expulsion of the contents of the pregnant uterus after death, are phenomena easily explained by physical laws. The consideration of the post-mortem changes, viz., loss of temperature, rigidity, hypostasis, putrefaction, which take place in a body, is chiefly of importance in helping us to decide the question which constantly arises in medico-legal practice—How long has a body been dead % and also because a careful study of the various phenomena helps us to explain many appear- ances which are liable to give rise to erroneous opinions. Loss of temperature or post-mortem cooling of the body.—Except in a few cases in which the temperature has been observed to rise for a limited period after death (tetanus, cholera, brain affections) the body at once commences to lose its heat when life departs. In other words, the body being now inanimate matter obeys ordinary physical laws and assumes the tempera- ture of the medium in which it is placed. As a rule, at the ordinary temperature of a house this reduction in temperature is accomplished in the course of about fifteen to twenty hours; but the rate of cooling is influenced greatly by the surrounding conditions, e.g. the amount of clothing or coverings on the body, the tempera- ture of the air, whether it has been lying in a room or exposed to the open air, etc. Immersion in cold water naturally causes rapid cooling, and hence marked coldness of the body has been described as a characteristic sign in death by drowning. Persons who die suddenly while in robust health, also those who are stout, cool less quickly than the lean and emaciated, and persons who have died from exhausting diseases. The very young and the aged cool more rapidly than adults. If a body still retains some body-heat, we can only give an opinion that death was recent, and fix approximately the time of its occurrence. Rigor Mortis — post-mortem rigidity. — Im- mediately after death occurs all the muscles in the body become flaccid, the lower jaw falls, the sphincters relax, the limbs are perfectly mobile. Somatic death has occurred, but the tissues still retain vitality, e.g. the muscles react to electrical stimuli, the glycogenic function of the liver continues, and, as seen in cases of judicial hanging, the heart may continue beating for half an hour even after complete division of the spinal cord and all the internal structures of the neck. Gradually, however, molecular death, or death of the tissues, takes place, and is ushered in by a stiffening or rigidity of all the muscles in the body, voluntary and involuntary —so called rigor mortis. This change comes on, as a rule, in from three to six hours after death, and is due to coagulation of the myosin, and possibly also to an influence of the nervous system. The muscles become firm and stiff; they stand out as when strained in exertion, and also contract to some extent. Rigor mortis comes on gradually, and usually attacks the muscles in the following order : the lower jaw and neck, the trunk, upper limbs, and, lastly, the lower limbs. It passes off in the same order after lasting for a varying period of time, usually twenty-four to seventy-two hours ; but sometimes it may be present for only an hour or two, or, again, may last for many days. As a rule, it may be said that the earlier it comes on the more quickly it disappears in any individual case. Rigor mortis has been termed the death-246 MEDICINE, FORENSIC struggle of muscle, and this indicates the chief cause of variation in its time of onset and period of duration. In healthy vigorous muscles, such as are found in robust people suddenly killed, rigor mortis comes on slowly and lasts for a considerable time, whereas in states of disease, or exhaustion from illness or fatigue, the molecular life of the tissues soon fails, rigidity appears quickly and lasts a comparatively short time. Other con- ditions which influence rigor mortis are age—in the young and old it develops quickly and disappears soon. Temperature.—Cold hastens its onset and protracts its duration. Mode of death.—Depends upon the state of the muscular system, e.g. whether death has been sudden or has resulted from lingering disease or acute constitutional disturbance, as in infective fevers, etc. In the drowned, rigidity often lasts for long periods ; while in death from certain poisons, e.g. strychnia, a similar observation has been made. The involuntary as well as the voluntary muscles become rigid, and it is of importance to remember this in relation to the post-mortem examination of the heart. Rigidity in this organ is influenced by the same conditions as in the other muscles of the body, and its occurrence not only tends to empty the heart of the blood contained in it at the time of death, but the rigidity and contraction may give rise to the belief that pathological hypertrophy of the left ventricle exists. Cadaveric spasm is a name given to denote a condition not infrequently observed, the cause of which is difficult to explain satisfactorily, viz., that in some forms of death the period of primary flaccidity of the muscles (before the onset of rigidity) appears to have been absent, the body or portions of it passing at once into a state of rigidity. This condition has been observed more especially in cases of injury of the head and neck, and in certain forms of acute suffocation: examples being frequently furnished on the field of battle by soldiers, who after prolonged exertion may be found rigidly fixed in the position in which they died; and also by suicides, who may be found clasping tightly in the hand the knife or pistol with which they have destroyed themselves. This last appearance is usually regarded as strong presumptive evidence of suicide, since the pos- sibility of a hand being made to grasp firmly and retain a weapon after death is most remote. Post-mortem lividity, hypmstasis, post-mortem staining is due to the blood in the body, after the cessation of the heart's action, obeying the action of gravity and sinking in the vessels to the most dependent parts. It is therefore a purely physical phenomenon, which takes place throughout the whole body, and shows itself externally as a livid discoloration of the skin in those regions which are situated lowest, and internally as a congestion and greater succulence of the tissues and organs, or portions of organs, which have occupied the most dependent position after death. Thus a body lying on its back will show lividity on the posterior surface of the neck, trunk, arms, and legs. In those parts which are pressed upon through the weight of the body, the shoulders, buttocks, and calves of the leg, lividity is absent, the skin appearing pale and anaemic amidst the surrounding lividity. Pressure exerted in other ways, as by corsets m women, garters, shirt collars, etc., may give rise to appearances which have been regarded with suspicion, owing to the striking variations in colour and markings thus produced. The more blood a body contains, and the greater its fluidity after death, the more marked is the develop- ment of post-mortem lividity or hypostasis. Thus in cases of sudden death in people of robust health—in all forms of death from asphyxia (in which marked fluidity of the blood is a charac- teristic post-mortem appearance)—lividity is especially well marked. On the other hand, in cases of death from hsemorrhage, and in those conditions associated with anaemia or rapid coagulation of the blood, lividity de- velops slowly and is less distinct, and may be almost entirely absent. The colour of the lividity depends on the colour of the blood, hence it is usually purplish red ; but in death due to CO and HCN poisoning, the blood is of a pink or bright red hue, and the colour of the lividity is correspondingly altered. In death from cold and exposure, and also in cases of drowning, the surface lividity is often light red in colour. In the various organs of the body a similar alteration in the distribution of the blood con- tained by them occurs after death, and gives rise to a deeper colour, and greater succulence and fulness of the vessels in the lower portions as compared with the upper. The appearance thus produced is apt, more especially in the lungs, to give rise to the opinion that we have to deal with a condition due to disease, and care must therefore be exercised to attribute such hypostatic congestion to its proper cause. The blood commences to gravitate immediately after death has occurred ; but the discoloration of the skin naturally takes some time to appear, usually only a few hours, and gradually increases in intensity. If the position of a body is altered within a few hours after death, and so long as the blood is still fluid, patches of lividity which have already appeared may be made to disappear and develop iipon what is now the most dependent surface of the body. After lividity is once well developed, however, change in the position of a body cannot materially alter the distribution of the gravitated blood, and hence valuable evidence as to the position which a body has occupied after death is obtained by noticing the position of the post-mortem lividity. Frequently in casesMEDICINE, FORENSIC 247 of over-laying, attention to this point may afford corroboration, or the opposite, of a mother's story as to the mode of death. Distinction between Post-mortem, Lividity and Bruises.—In cases of murder there is no more important procedure to be observed at the post- mortem examination than to distinguish between a recent bruise, the result of violence, and post- mortem lividity. However simple the distinction may appear in certain cases, there is only one way of absolutely differentiating the two con- ditions, viz., by incising the skin and subcutaneous tissues at the spot. By this means we see at once whether we have to deal with an extravasa- tion of blood into the tissues (bruise), or merely a congestion of blood - vessels (post - mortem lividity). A bruise may, of course, present other points of distinction, such as injury of the cuticle and swelling, while an older bruise may show nuances of colour; but it is a good rule to incise every suspicious discoloration under all circumstances. Putrefaction.—The last post-mortem pheno- menon and the most absolute sign of death is putrefaction. After rigor mortis has passed off, the muscles again become perfectly flaccid, but with this distinction as compared with the flaccidity present immediately after death, viz., that they no longer react to stimuli;—they are dead, and commence to undergo resolution or decomposition. The first sign of putrefaction usually observed is a greenish discoloration of the lower part of the abdomen, except in death by drowning, when, as a rule, the change is first seen in the neck and face. The green discoloration spreads over the abdomen, which becomes distended with gas ; the skin of the neck, chest, and upper limbs then become greenish, while the larger vessels show through the skin as dark irregular lines, and the subcutaneous tissues feel spongy from putrefactive emphysema, more especially where the texture is loose, as in the neck and scrotum. The cuticle becomes moist, raised in bullse, and peels off easily—gradually the skin becomes darker in colour and more and more distended and disorganised until it gives way, allowing of the escape of the contained gases, after which the various soft parts rapidly undergo resolution. Internally, decomposition of the various struc- tures and organs is likewise proceeding, but it advances in them with varying rapidity, depend- ing largely upon the looseness of their texture and amount of blood contained by them, condi- tions which materially hasten resolution. The stomach, liver, spleen, and intestines are the first organs to show signs of decomposition. The lungs, heart, and kidneys are more resistant, and may remain recognisable for many weeks, or even months, after death. The uterus is one of the most resistant organs in the body, and in the case of Harriet Lane murdered by Wain- Wright, was found recognisable, and capable of affording information relative to her identity, a year after her murder. Hair, teeth, bones, may be found practically unaltered after many years. The accumulation of gases of putrefaction in the various cavities of the body may exert very con- siderable pressure, and thus we frequently see an escape of blood-stained froth from the mouth and nose, due to pressure of the diaphragm up- wards by the distension of the abdomen, the same cause also tending to empty the heart of its contained blood by forcing it into the large vessels, while it is important to note that the contents of the stomach may be forced up the oesophagus in a similar manner. The conditions which influence the onset and progress of putrefaction are manifold. The primary cause is, of course, the presence of bac- teria, and hence it may be stated generally that any conditions which prevent or retard their access to the body, or the presence of conditions unfavourable to their growth, ipso facto retard putrefaction. Thus burial, immersion in water, even cover- ing of the body with tight-fitting clothes, delays putrefaction. Cold retards, and warmth, especially when accompanied with moisture, favours decomposi- tion. The condition of the body and the cause of death also exert a great influence. Certain diseased states, such as septicsemia, dropsy, acute fevers, cause rapid putrefaction; while persons whose tissues are badly novirished, or degenerated, as in chronic alcoholism, quickly undergo resolution. Spare people, newly-born children, the aged, and those dying from chronic diseases, generally decompose slowly. Bodies which have been exposed to much vio- lence decompose rapidly; but if a considerable loss of blood has taken place, this tends to pro- duce an opposite effect. In death from certain poisons, e.g. arsenic, the body is said to remain fresh for a long period, but this result can only occur after prolonged administration, and not in cases of acute poisoning. It is impossible to fix definite periods of time for the onset and progress of putrefaction. In this country the first green discoloration of the abdomen usually appears in from twenty-four to seventy-two hours, and the subsequent progress depends on ■ the surrounding conditions and influences mentioned above. In exceptional cases, in summer, the whole body may be green and distended with gas within twenty- four hours, while sometimes in winter, after the lapse of a week a body may show no alteration. Such facts, viz., the variations observed in bodies, dead from the same cause for the same number of hours, and placed under the same conditions, make it impossible to speak dogmatically as to the period of time which has elapsed since death. Putrefaction in water differs from that inFORENSIC 248 MEDICINE, air inasmuch as it takes place more slowly owing to bacteria being more or less excluded from the body, and practically it may be said that the changes take place twice as slowly as in air. Of course if a body is only partially immersed or is floating on the surface, putre- faction will advance more rapidly. It has been generally observed that putre- faction in the drowned appears first, and advances most rapidly, in the neck and face, and it is a frequent occurrence for bodies to be recovered from water with nearly the whole of the soft parts of the face and exposed hands and feet destroyed, while the trunk and limbs which are covered by clothes may present an almost perfectly fresh appearance. This is accounted for partly by the early onset of putrefaction in the face and neck, and also by the action of rats, fish, etc., from the latter of which causes the clothing affords an effectual protection. However slight the putrefaction may appear to be when a body is recovered from water, it must be remembered that on subsequent exposure to the air, putrefactive changes take place with great rapidity, and hence it is im- portant to secure identification of the body as soon as possible. A change which is sometimes found in bodies which have been lying in water or moist soil is the transformation of the soft parts into a waxy or cheese-like substance called adipocere. The whole body or portions of it may be so trans- formed, the parts retaining their original shape and form. It is a very permanent substance, has little or no smell, and requires, in this climate at any rate, a considerable time (six weeks to six months) to form. (See also "Adipocere," vol. i. p. 55.) Mummification.-—-Instead of a body under- going the usual colliquative decomposition, it may, when exposed to a dry atmosphere, mummify or desiccate. The body dries and shrivels up, and when the process is completed, it tends to crumble to a fine dust. There is little or no smell during the process, which in this country seldom occurs except in the case of the bodies of infants. Effect of Ptitrefaction on Injuries.—One of the first effects of putrefaction in the body is to cause a transudation and imbibition into surrounding tissues of the blood-colouring matter and serum from the vessels ; and hence with the advance of putrefaction all the organs and tissues present a uniformly diffused pink or reddish coloration, and in the serous cavities, e.g. pericardium, pleurae, abdomen, a quantity of blood-stained fluid is found. In extravasated blood the same process of transudation and imbibition takes place, and thus bruises may appear to increase in size and become more distinct after death. In the stomach putrefactive changes {i.e. transudation and imbibition of the blood-colour- ing matter, and transformation of hjemoglobin into methsemoglobin and hgematin) give rise very frequently to appearances and discolora- tions which are liable to be mistaken for the effects of poisoning. The uniformity and diffuseness of the discoloration, absence of capillary injection, and of injury to the mucous membrane will generally indicate the nature of the appearance in such cases. In injuries where there has been division or destruction of tissues, evidence of the injury, and its nature, may remain even in advanced stages of putrefaction, although it will be impossible to decide whether it was produced during life or after death. During recent years a study has been made of the insects which attack bodies after death, or, as M^gnin calls it, the Fauna of the Cadaver. Brouardel testifies to the good results which have accrued in several cases from a study of these insects, whereby a close approximation to the actual date of death was obtained long after its occurrence. Different kinds of insects are attracted to the body by products formed at successive stages of putrefaction, and hence by a knowledge of this fact and of entomology it is possible with considerable accuracy to estimate the period of time which coincides with the presence of various insects and larvae found among the remains. Wounds and Injuries General Considerations . . . .248 Causes of Death ..... 249 Accident, Suicide, or Murder . . . 250 Ante- and Post-moi^tem Wounds . . 251 General Considerations. — The term wound in a legal sense includes any form of injury caused by violence, the words of the statute referring to this subject being, " Whosoever shall by any means whatsoever wound or cause grievous bodily harm to a person." Thus not only are wounds, surgically so called, viz. incised, contused, punctured, and lacerated wounds, included in the meaning of the statute, but also bruises without injury to the skin, concussions, fractures, ruptures of internal organs, burns and injuries produced by fire- arms. It is also not necessary that any weapon should be employed in order to produce wound- ing, the words of the statute being "by any means whatsoever." The use of a weapon in an assault, especially one well known to be capable of inflicting serious injviry, such as a knife or fire - arm, is un- doubtedly regarded as an aggravation, since it indicates more or less intent to do serious injury; but proof of the use of a special weapon is not necessary in chai-ges of assault, the result of the violence, however caused, and the intent regulating as a rule the gravity of the offence. In giving evidence in cases of wounding or249 MEDICINE, FORENSIC injury, the medical witness will usually have no difficulty in conveying to the court his opinion as to the gravity of the injury in any individual case. In all cases where there is danger to life this fact should be at once intimated to the police—firstly, in order that the case may not be disposed of summarily, so that a charge of murder or manslaughter may be preferred in the event of the death of the injured party; and, secondly, in order that a dying declaration may, if possible, be taken. In forming an opinion as to " danger to life," it must be borne in mind that imminent danger is meant, not the possible death of the person from some remote or secondary cause. Thus a compound fracture of the skull or a rupture of the intestine would be undoubtedly imminently dangerous to life, while one would scarcely describe as such a fracture of the ribs or of the thigh, although both frequently end in death. It is often an advantage in giving evidence on injuries in civil cases to have some system of classification in mind, and the following, taken from the French code, is useful for the purpose :— 1st Class. Slight, i.e. not incapacitating from work more than 20 days. 2nd Class. Serious, i.e. incapacitating from work more than 20 days, (a) Completely curable. {b) Incompletely curable. 3rd Class. Mortal. Causes of Death from Wounds.—In cases of death, as a result of violence, it is essential that the actual cause of death be determined. It is not sufficient to state that a certain injury produced death ; the reason why death resulted from the injury must be determined. In many cases there is no difficulty in at once discovering the cause of death, but in others, especially where the injuries appear to be slight, and not of a character usually regarded as fatal, the question is not so easily answered. We may classify the causes of death into primary and secondary. Primary causes are haemorrhage, shock and injury to a vital organ. HcBmorrhage.—This cause is usually apparent, and apart from external evidence of copious bleeding it is characterised post-mortem by (1) very faint and circumscribed lividity ; (2) pallor of the lips, conjunctivae and mucous membranes, and general blanching of the body ; (3) empti- ness of the heart and great vessels from blood; (4) marked decrease of blood in all the internal organs, giving them a pale, shrunken appearance. In bodies much decomposed, absence of blood in the heart and large vessels does not necessarily betoken death from haemorrhage, as the blood is the first constituent of the body to disappear in putrefaction. The amount of blood lost does not necessarily determine the cause of death. A sudden loss is more fatal than a loss amounting to the same quantity, effused gradually ; while a loss of blood that may prove fatal to one person does not necessarily cause death in another. A strong, robust person may recover from a loss which is fatal to a weak, anaemic woman. The amount lost must always be considered in rela- tion to the age and constitution of the person affected. A person may die from haemorrhage without any external loss of blood, as in wounds of the thoracic vessels, and in ruptures of the liver or of extra-uterine gestations. The situa- tion in which blood is effused is also of im- portance both as regards the amount of blood and the fatal result, as, for example, in apoplexy, or in hcemorrhage into the pericardium, where the effused blood acts mechanically by prevent- ing the heart's action. It must also be borne in mind that in cases of severe maltreatment the total quantity of blood lost from several small wounds, or effused in the form of bruises in various parts of the body, may be sufficient to produce death from haemorrhage. Shock.—In shock death results from paralysis or sudden stoppage of the heart, caused reflexly through excessive stimulation of peripheral sensory nerves. Death from shock most often results from severe injuries, but it may also occur from comparatively slight injuries or violence. The post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, and practically the diagnosis must be based upon the nature of the violence and circumstances of the case, combined with the absence of any pathological condition suffi- cient to account for death. A point of im- portance to be kept in view is the time which elapses between the infliction of the violence and death, the lapse of any considerable interval rendering death from other causes more probable. The condition of the heart should always be carefully examined in such cases, since sudden death is very common in diseased states of the organ, more especially when fatty degeneration of the muscle is present. Death from shock sometimes occurs after very slight violence, which leaves no trace upon the body, e.g. a blow on the epigastrium or on the testicles, while it has also occurred from such a simple operation as making a per vaginam examination, although in such cases the fatal shock is probably analogous to that which re- sults from great mental emotion. Injury to a Vital Organ.—Such as the brain, spinal cord, the heart, and lungs. Sometimes the cause of death is found in some pre-existing pathological condition, such as heart disease, rupture of an aneurysm, apo- plexy, etc. In such cases the questions which the medical examiner will have to answer will be —(1) Was the violence, apart from the diseased condition, in itself capable of causing death, or producing serious injury? or (2) Did theMEDICINE, FORENSIC 250 violence contribute to or accelerate death 1 In such cases the law lays stress upon any evidence of malice or intent to injure. Secondary Causes of Death.—These include inflammatory processes, meningitis, pneumonia, peritonitis, septicaemia, pyaemia, erysipelas, tetanus, delirium tremens, exhaustion, surgical operations, etc. According to English law a man is answerable for the death of any person he has injured, provided death takes place within a year and one day, and is attributable directly or indirectly to the violence. Some secondary causes of death are practi- cally unavoidable, e.g. peritonitis in wounds of the intestines; others are avoidable, or the chances of their occurring are remote, e.g. tetanus. Delirium tremens is the result of a man's previous intemperate habits ; an operation may not be performed in as favourable surround- ings, or so skilfully, as modern advances in surgery demand; hut with reference to all these considerations, the law maintains a view that a person who inflicts violence on another must abide by all the consequences of his act. Only where it can be proved that the secondary cause of death was due to the wilful disregard of ordinary care on the part of a patient after due warning of the consequences is an accused person relieved of responsibility. With refer- ence to the responsibility of medical men for the death of a patient, as the result of an operation, evidence in such a case must prove not mere want of skill, nor even that death was due to a mistake on the part of a medical man, but that there was gross carelessness or ignorance and disregard of ordinary recognised rules of practice. The Question of Accident, Suicide, or Murder. —In all forms of violent death a decision on this question is of primary importance, since it at once determines the subsequent procedure. The chief points which will help to decide the question in regard to wounds are the situation, direction, nature, and extent of the wound, together with a consideration of the circum- stances of the case, such as the position of the body or weapon, marks of blood upon clothes and surrounding objects, and finally, the presence or absence of signs of a struggle. With reference to the solution of this question, much will depend upon the common-sense and acumen of the ex- aminer in each particular case ; bvit the following general considerations must be kept in mind. Situation of the Wound.—Accidental wounds Tnay be situated practically anywhere, and the circumstances will generally afford sufficiently clear evidence of their accidental nature. The suicidal wound is usually situated in the front of the body, in an easily accessible and vital position. Thus the head, throat, and chest are favourite situations; on the other hand, extra- ordinary and most unlikely parts are sometimes chosen by suicides, especially by the insane. Homicidal injuries may be in any part of the body. Direction of the Wound.—This is a most im- poi-tant point to decide, and in penetrating wounds the direction should be determined by a dissection of the surrounding parts rather than by passing probes into the wound. All descrip- tions as to size and direction must refer to well-recognised anatomical landmarks. Some directions of wounds are consistent with suicide by a right- or by a left-handed person, as the case may be; others are unusual in suicide and hence presumptive of murder; while wounds having a certain direction we may decide at once could only be produced by the hand of another person. In cut throat, a wound running from immedi- ately below the angle of the jaw upon the left side downwards and forwards across the middle line of the neck at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage is typical of suicide, whereas a wound running from below upwards and across the neck is unusual in suicide and presumptive of homicide. Suicidal stabs of the chest usually run from above downwards and inwards, and a direction from below upwards and inwards should excite suspicion. Nature and Extent of Wounds.—The nature and extent of some injuries are quite irreconcil- able with accident or suicide, and we have no difficulty in attributing them to violence inflicted by another. It is true that suicides may inflict extensive injuries upon themselves by precipita- tion from a height; but even where the circum- stances render this possible, the injuries in their nature and extent may be inconsistent with such a mode of production. In considering the nature and extent of injuries we must always have in view their relative power to cause death rapidly, or to produce unconsciousness and inability to per- form movements, since, while a suicide may cause a large number of severe wounds upon himself, it is highly improbable that he could produce two or more wounds, each of which would cause rapid unconsciousness or prove immediately fatal. It cannot, however, be too strongly insisted upon that suicides, and especially insane people, have caused upon themselves injuries which, from their extent, situation, and nature, are almost beyond credibility; and hence, even in the case of injuries whicli appear to be only capable of production by a second party, caution should be exercised in expressing a definite opinion. With regard to the circumstantial evidence, viz., the position of the body, and of a weapon, marks of blood and traces of a struggle, the evidence of a medical man will only be of real value if he has an opportunity of observing the facts for himself before the body or the locus is in any way interfered with. The evidence of aMEDICINE, FORENSIC 251 careful observer in such matters may be of the utmost importance, and the duty should not be relegated to a police officer. The position of a body may be inconsistent with a supposed accident or with suicide ; thus, for example, when it is found with severe con- tusions and fractures upon it, in a place where there was no possibility of a fall or similar cause producing them. The position of a weapon in regard to a body may be of great significance : if found firmly grasped in the hand, this is evidence very strongly presumptive of suicide; while in all cases of suicide where the wound is a mortal one, causing immediate collapse or un- consciousness, it is essential that the weapon should be found close to the body. The weapon must also be compared with the wound, and the point determined whether it was capable of causing the injuries and bears traces of having been used, e.g. presence of blood-stains, foreign particles, hairs, etc. Marks of blood upon the deceased should be consistent with the character of the wound, and its situation on the body, while blood-stains on surrounding objects must be regarded from the standpoint of whether they could have been produced by the deceased after infliction of the injuries upon himself. Signs of a struggle strongly suggest homicide, and they are usually apparent, not only in the room or surroundings, but also upon the person of the deceased. It must be noted that they do not generally consist of serious injuries, but often of slighter marks of violence—scratches, superficial abrasions and bruises; and in the case of assaults with sharp cutting instruments, the hands and fingers will frequently be found cut from attempts to ward off the weapon. At the same time we must remember that suicides frequently employ two or more different methods to accomplish the act, and inflict a variety of injuries upon themselves. Poxver of Locomotion and Volition after Wounds and Injuries.—This is a question for considera- tion in cases of doubtful suicide, where, from marks of blood, etc., there has evidently been movement of the body after the receipt of severe injury. Great care must be exercised in giving an opinion, as numerous cases are on record in which, after injuries of the brain and loss of brain matter, after extensive wounds of the heart, and after suicide by cut throat with division of the large vessels of the neck, the person has been able to walk some distance and to perform voluntary acts, such as the infliction of further injuries on himself, etc. Distinction betiveen Wounds caused during Life and those produced after Death.—Injuries may be produced on a body after death accidentally in a variety of ways, and unless their true character is recognised they may lead to erroneous opinions in regard to the cause of death. Thus forcible movement of parts of the body fixed by rigor mortis may easily produce ruptures of muscles, e.g. the platysma, biceps, etc. Abrasion of the cuticle after death will cause the portion of the skin thus denuded to dry up and become of a brown colour and parchment-like consistence, on superficial ex- amination not dissimilar from an abrasion pro- duced during life. It is possible also by rough handling of a body to produce bruises, contu- sions, and fractures, although as a general nile a greater amount of force is required to produce such injuries after death than during life. Of course it is also possible that stabs, cuts, and other injuries may be produced after death. The great difference between all ante- and post-mortem injuries is to be found in the amount of blood effused. The characteristics of a wound produced during life are :—1. Bleeding more or less copious. 2. Coagulation of the effused blood. 3. Suffusion of the edges of the injured tissues with blood. 4. More or less swelling. 5. Retraction of divided skin and muscles. In a wound produced several hours after death there may be some bleeding, but it is due to physical causes—the action of gravity—and never partakes of the character of hsemorrhage occurring during life while the action of the heart continues. It is always comparatively small in amount, and can only occur so long as the blood is fluid. Thus post-mortem bruises are never of large size, and, except immediately after death, will not occur at all unless on dependent parts of the body. Further, there will be no injection or suffusion of the edges of the wound, for the reason above indicated. There is no swelling—any blood which has escaped does not coagulate, or only very loosely, and there will be no retraction of the edges of the skin or muscles, unless such retraction happens to be produced by mechanical causes, such as the effect of pressure, position of the limbs, etc. The greatest difficulty will arise when a dis- tinction has to be made between wounds caused immediately prior to death and those inflicted shortly afterwards. In both cases the condition of the tissues is to all intents and purposes the same, and the appearances very similar; there- fore, all that can be safely affirmed in such cases is, that the injuries were produced either immediately before or shortly after death. Various Kinds op Wounds oe Injuries Abrasions are injuries of the cuticle or super- ficial layer of the skin. They are frequently associated with bruises or contusions, and may be caused by very slight violence ; but, on the other hand, there may be no abrasion of the cuticle at the places where blows of great force and violence have been delivered, as is often most strikingly seen in persons who have been run over by vehicles or have fallen from a height. Recent abrasions have a moist surface and show252 MEDICINE, FORENSIC signs of bleeding; after a time they become covered with a brown scab, around which there is some redness and swelling. After death, abrasion of the cuticle will give rise to a brown parchment-like area, very similar to an injiiry produced during life, but differing from the latter inasmuch as it shows no signs of bleed- ing or vital reaction. Unless care is used, how- ever, such post-mortem abrasions may easily be attributed to violence exerted during life. Bruises and Coritusions.—A bruise is an extravasation of blood into the skin or other structures, caused by violence. The term con- tusion includes bruising, but implies more extensive injury to the soft structures than mere rupture of blood-vessels. A bruise does not necessarily appear as a result of violence, even of a severe nature. It is very common to see bodies which have fallen from a height, and which have sustained fatal internal injuries, with no external signs of bruising—this may be accounted for by the fact of death having occurred immediately ; but in other cases where death is delayed, or recovery takes place, no bruising may appear, as for example in violence exerted on the abdomen. A man who jumped over a window and fell thirty-seven feet, was taken to the hospital, examined and dismissed, as he showed no signs of injury. On returning home, three hours afterwards, he went to his room and cut his throat. At the post-mortem, there was found fracture of several ribs, rupture of the liver, and other severe internal injuries. Bruises are more easily produced on delicate persons, women and children, than in those whose tissues are firm and healthy. Very slight force may cause a brviise in a delicate person, or in situations where the textures are loose and vascular, such as the scrotum. In certain diseases—scurvy, purpura, haemophilia —extravasations of blood may occur spon- taneously ; and even in healthy, strong persons haemorrhages may occur from a sudden strain or exertion apart from direct violence, e.g. haemorrhages under the conjunctiva in whooping- cough. A bruise generally appears at the seat of injury, and if superficial, a purplish discolora- tion develops in the course of a short time; deeper-seated bruises take longer to show on the surface, and freqviently, if situated in the upper or lower limbs, the extravasated l:)lood gravitates in the tissues and shows externally at a point considerably removed from that which received the violence. A common ex- ample of this may frequently be seen in blows delivered on the forehead or eyebrow, causing a deep discoloration of both eyes under the lower lid. The size of a bruise is not always an index to the degree of violence used, since the amount of extravasation depends, to a great extent, upon the looseness and vascularity of the tissues and the constitution of the individual. The age of a bruise may be judged by the change in colour which the extravasated blood undergoes, due to alteration in the blood pig- ments. These changes commence at the peri- phery where the layer of blood is thinnest, and consists in a gradual passing from purple to brown and finally lemon colour. The more superficial the bruise, the quicker this change in colour takes place, i.e. in the course of two or three days ; but in deep-seated extravasations no colour-transformation occurs at all. In ecchymosis under the conjunctiva, the haemoglobin is kept oxygenated by the air, and remains of a bright scarlet colour until the blood becomes gradually absorbed. Incised ivounds are produced by cutting instruments, and rule, linear, their length being greater than the depth. The edges are regular, and the wound gapes more or less, according to its position on the body and the structures injured. Irregularity of the edges may be produced by a very blunt knife, or from folds of skin having been cut through. All apparently incised wounds are not produced by sharp cutting instruments. A blow on the scalp with a blunt, rounded or flat instrument, or a fall upon hard ground, may produce a wound similar to an incision, due to a splitting of the scalp at the seat of injury. Careful observation will enable the distinction to be made, owing to the latter form of wound fre- quently exhibiting some irregularity of the edges and isolated bands of undivided tissue bridging across the two sides of the wound. Wherever soft tissues are situated immediately over bone, e.g. the scalp, face, shin or external genital organs of the female, any blunt rounded weapon or violence applied is liable to produce an injury similar to an incised wound. In the case of a woman, a kick from behind on the private parts, even through the clothes, has frequently caused a cut on the inner surface of the labium, which has been mistaken for a wound produced by a cutting weapon intro- duced into the vulvae. Punctured wounds, stabs, are characterised by their depth greatly exceeding the size of the surface wound. They may be caused by sharp- pointed weapons, by blunt conical instruments (such as a poker), or by pieces of glass, crockery, etc. In the case of a puncture cavised by a bhmt weapon, such as a poker, the external wound on the skin does not correspond in shape with the weapon as is the case in stabs with sharp-pointed weapons. The skin splits at the point where the instrument penetrates, and a slit-like wound is the result, with sharp-angled ends, and hence the injury is liable to be attributed to the \xse of a sharp weapon. The length of the slit will be proportional to the circumference of the penetrating instrument, but the wound often appears comparatively small owing to stretchingMEDICINE, FORENSIC 253 of the skin before it is perforated. The direc- tion in which the skin splits depends upon the situation in the body, for it has been shown that skin has a natural tendency to split in various directions in different situations. In a punctured wound produced by glass or crock- ery, the external wound and its edges are usu- ally irregular and indicate thus the mode of production. Stabs or punctures produced by sharp-pointed weapons, such as knives, correspond in shape as a rule to that of the weapon which produced them, i.e. they are linear with regular edges and are sharp-angled at both ends, even al- though the knife has only one cutting edge. The wound is frequently described as being obtuse angled at one end (that corresponding to the non-cutting edge of the blade); but, as a rule, this is not so, because from the spot where the point enters the skin, the further extension of the woiind is produced by the cutting edge alone. The size of the wound does not necessarily correspond to the size of the weapon. In the case of blunt-pointed knives, the skin is more or less stretched before perforation, and on withdrawal of the weapon it retracts, and thus the wound is actually smaller; on the other hand, the wound is frequently larger where the weapon is sharp, on account of the wound being enlarged during withdrawal of the weapon. For the same reason, the wound may be irregular in shape, the knife having been withdrawn in a different plane from that in which it entered. In stabs through folds of skin, the wound will present an irregular shape and be larger than the size of the knife. In comparing the size of a stab with the width of a knife, it must be remembered that retraction of the edges of the wound reduces its length, and hence they should be approximated before measuring. In stabs of bone, e.g. the skull, the wovind often corresponds exactly to the shape of the weapon; on the other hand, such wounds are frequently accompanied by fracture either of the whole thickness or of the outer table of bone. In stabs, fatal haemorrhage may take place internally without any external effusion of blood. With only one external wound there may be two or more internal stabs, owing to the weapon having been only partially withdrawn before being again plunged into the tissues. The weapon which has been used usually shows stains of blood, but these may be absent, owing to the clothes having wiped it on with- drawal ; or again, in stout people, owing to the subcutaneous fat which tends to protrude, having performed the same function. It is perhaps possible also that the vessels may be so compressed in a sudden plunge and with- drawal of a weapon, that no blood escapes on to it. Lacerated ivounds are characterised by a tear- ing rather than a cutting of the tissues. They result, as a rule, from violence with flat or blunt rounded instruments, or from falls. They are generally irregular in shape, and accom- panied by bruising and contusion of adjacent parts. The chief question of medico-legal importance in connection with such wounds is to determine whether they have been caused by direct vio- lence or by a fall. The latter defence is always put forward in criminal cases, and in arriving at a decision, the seat of injury, i.e. whether it is a situation liable to be injured in a fall, the nature and extent of the wounds, and a personal examination of the locus in certain cases, should be made. Some lacerated wounds are incon- sistent with production by a simple fall, either from their situation, e.g. the vertex of the head, or from their extent or number. Ruptures of internal organs may be caused indirectly by falls or by direct violence, and it is important to remember that while injuries of well-protected organs, e.g. those of the chest or the kidneys, require very considerable violence for their production, such as is occasioned by a fall from a height, or by being run over by a vehicle; other organs, such as the liver, spleen, and intestines, may be ruptured by a simple fall on the ground while walking, or by a comparatively slight blow. Ruptures of the heart and lungs are usually associated with fracture of ribs and other signs of severe violence; but this is not always the case, especially in young people whose carti- lages are pliant. Cases of rupture of the heart and lungs from violence, and even complete detachment of the heart, so that it lies loose in the pericardial sac, have occurred without any other sign of external or internal injury being present. Rupture of the heart not infrequently occurs spontaneously as a result of disease of the muscular walls. It is not necessary that the person should have been making any exertion at the time of rupture; it may occur while lying in bed, and rapidly causes death from effusion of blood into the pericardial sac. Such ruptures, as a general rule, are small, and situ- ated in the left ventricle towards the apex; whereas ruptures due to violence may be of any size, and are found in the great majority of instances near the base of the organ. Ruptiires of abdominal organs may be the result of very considerable violence, such as a wheel or a conveyance passing over the body, or of a comparatively slight blow or fall against a hard object. In both cases very often there is no external indication of injury, and hence great caution must be exercised in at once ex- pressing the opinion that a person is uninjured who is reported to have been run over, or who complains of having received a blow over theMEDICINE, FORENSIC 254 abdomen. Such people may be able to walk into hospital, and yet be siiflFering from rupture of the liver or intestines at the time. The liver is the organ which is most commonly ruptured in great violence, such as a fall from a height, as well as from slighter forms of violence, and the rupture may be complete through the whole organ, or merely a superficial fissure. After the liver, the spleen is most liable to suffer. Naturally any disease of these organs tends to increase their liability to rupture, and ap- parently the spleen may rupti;re spontaneously without there being any history of violence whatsoever. Ruptures of the stomach result most com- monly from disease, and are comparatively rare as a result of violence. Ruptures of the small intestines are much more common than similar injuries of the large intestine. The injury is most commonly found in the ileum; but any part of the small gut, including the duodenum, may be ruptured even by a simple blow. The whole circumference of the gut may be divided in such cases, while not only may there be no external sign of injury, but the person may walk about, and even at- tempt to continvie at work for some time after- wards. In all cases of rupture of the intestine from alleged violence careful examination must be made for any trace of disease from which it might have resulted. Ruptures of the bladder are more commonly a result of indirect violence, but may also occur from a kick or during a struggle, if the bladder is full. The latter are usiially intraperitoneal and situated at the fundus. This organ may rupture spontaneously, as a result of disease of the walls and from over- distension due to strictiire or paralysis. Rupture of the kidney always betokens great violence, as also does injury of the pancreas ; both these organs being well protected by sur- rounding structures. Fractures. — Of chief importance, medico- legally, are fractures of the skull. These may be the result of a direct blow, or of a fall against the ground or some hard object; or fracture may result from transmitted force, as in a fall from a height, where the person lands upon the feet or buttocks. Fracture does not always occur at the seat of violence, but may take place at a point in the skull directly op- posite by co7itre coup. When violence is inflicted upon the skull by means of a weapon of small striking area, such as a hammer-head or a bullet, a strictly localised depressed fracture may result, corresponding in size and shape to the instrument which produced it, although usually it is found in such cases that, while the fractiire in the outer table of bone may corre- spond in size, the inner table is injured over a much greater area. Such fractures, except where the bone is very thin, betoken great force ; with a less amount of force, the fracture tends to be more diffused and irregular. Frac- tures of the skull, caused by falls, or blows with objects of large striking area, run, as a rule, parallel to the axis of compression. When the head is supported on one side, as, for example, by the ground, and the blow is received upon the other side, the skull, being elastic, is compressed, and bursts, as it were, at the eqviator, the fractures running from here to the two poles of compression. In a blow on the side of the head, therefore, the fracture would commence at the vertex or base and run up to either side. When the head is unsupported the fracture commences at the seat of violence, and runs towards the base or vertex in the direction parallel to that of the force. Difficulty will always arise in deciding whether a fracture may not have been produced by an accidental fall, and the possibility of this mode of production must generally be admitted, un- less the contrary is strongly indicated by the appearance of any external marks of injury, or from the extent and nature of the fractures. It is quite possible for fracture of the skull to occur as the result of a fall upon level ground; but in all such cases attention should be directed to the thickness of the bone and existence of any special fragility—the result of disease. Some skulls are preternaturally thin and more liable to fracture; others may be specially thick, and the probability of fracture by a simple fall is therefore diminished. Fracture of the skull, even of a compound nature, with destruction of brain matter, is not inconsistent with consciousness and power of locomotion. A not infrequent result of simple fracture of the skull is compression of the brain due to rupture of a branch of the middle meningeal artery. It may also occur without fracture. The typical history in such cases (they are very liable to be unrecognised at first) is as follows :—A man receives a blow on the head, or falls while under the influence of drink ; he is stunned for a few seconds, and ultimately goes home; complains of slight headache and drowsi- ness, but is otherwise quite well. He goes to bed, is found to be sleeping soundly and snoring in the course of a short time. Next morning he is discovered dead in bed, and on post-mortem examination a large clot of blood is found be- tween the dura mater and skull. His supposed deep sleep and snoring were really coma, with stertorous breathing; and careful examination would have shown that he was quite insensible, with a slow pulse and absence of pupil reaction. In post-mortem examinations of such cases always note the state of the vessels, since disease will increase their liability to rupture, and this point will be raised for the defence in support of a plea that only slight violence was used, or that the rupture was spontaneous. Haemorrhages on the surface of the brain areMEDICINE, FORENSIC 255 usually the result of violence, whereas heemor- rhages into the substance of this organ are commonly due to disease, e.g. apoplexy. Concussion of the brain is a frequent accom- paniment of fracture of the skull, but also may occur as a result of any direct or indirect violence to the head. The symptoms of con- cussion are sudden unconsciousness, which may last for seconds, hours, or days. Respiration is irregular, pulse feeble or imperceptible ; there is pallor and coldness of the skin, sometimes vomiting. Concussion may cause death at once, without any lesion being found at the post- mortem examination. As a rule, more or less contusion of the meninges or surface of the brain is found—not always beneath the site of the external violence, but often in a situation directly opposite (contre coup). Cases of con- cussion and compression are especially liable to be mistaken for alcoholic intoxication, more particularly in the class of person which comes under the notice of the police, and in these cases it is advisable to exercise great caution in forming a diagnosis. Fractures in other parts of the hody are of importance medico-legally, chiefly with reference to the question of their causation—whether by violence inflicted by another, or indirectly as a result of a fall. In deciding this question, the presence and character of any external marks of violence will be of assistance; but it is not necessary that a blow causing fracture should leave any external mark, although as a rule such signs will be found. The constitution and state of health of the individual is also a matter of importance. Some people, apparently in good health, may suff"er from fracture of the clavicle, scapula, ribs or thigh as a result of mere muscular movements, and even such simple acts as sneezing and coughing may pro- duce fracture of ribs; while in diseases inter- fering with the nutrition of the body—rickets, moUities ossium, cancer, insanity, certain affec- tions of the nervous system—fractures are very liable to occur owing to increased fragility of the bones; in the case of the insane such fractures are frequently attributed to undue violence, and form the subject of judicial inquiry. In the aged the bones are more brittle and liable to break. The question whether a fracture was caused during life or after death, which often arises in the case of bodies recovered from the water, where injuries may have been caused by barges, lock-gates, etc., will be determined by the evi- dence of hsemorrhage, and infiltration of the adjacent tissues and other signs of vital re- action. Fractures produced after death will show an absence of such appearances. In fractures caused some time before death, there will be signs of repair and healing; but in greatly debilitated and old people such signs of repair may be very slight, even for a consider- able time after the occurrence. In fractures produced either immediately before or shortly after death, a definite deduction cannot be made. The determination of the age of a fracture must in recent cases be estimated from the stage of the reparative processes, due considera- tion being paid to the state of the general health of the individual. In old fractures no positive opinion can be formed. Wounds from Fire-Arms .... 255 Burns ....... 257 Death from Lightning . . . .258 Death from Electric Currents . . . 258 „ Starvation .... 258 „ Cold and Exposure . . 258 Wounds from Fire-Arms.—The appearances and effects produced by these will vary chiefly according to the kind of weapon used, the dis- tance at which it is discharged, and the nature of the charge and projectile in each case. In criminal practice we have almost solely to deal with cases of wounds from revolvers and pistols or from shot guns. Rifles are sometimes used suicidally, by soldiers mainly, but only rarely homicidally; and the wounds from such weapons do not often raise questions of a medico-legal character. Wounds produced by fire-arms have to be considered mainly with the view of determining the important question of whether they were caused by accident, suicide, or homicide. A suicidal wound must, except in extremely rare circumstances, present the characters of a near wound. A '■'■near" wound presents the following characters. Around the entrance wound of the projectile there is a zone of brown parchment- like skin, produced by the action of the flame of the discharge ; in and around this area there is an irregular zone of blackening, due to two causes: first, to small particles of unconsumed powder embedded in the skin, and secondly., to the smoke of combustion; the latter can be re- moved by sponging, the former is permanent. The hairs, if any, around the part are singed or burnt. The wound of penetration in the skin is not necessarily round when caused by a round bullet, but is frequently irregular in shape, and often of large size, due to the fact that the force acting is not alone that of the projectile, but also the expansive force of gases developed by the explosion, which enter along with the bullet, and tear or rend the skin and tissues. In a muzzle-loader, the wad may also tend to increase the size of the external wound. In a weapon held against or very close to the body, the above characteristic eff'ects produced by the flame, smoke, and powder on the skin may be absent, but they will be found internally along the track of the bullet.256 MEDICINE, FORENSIC The further the weapon is held from the body, the less marked will be the above appear- ances, until at a distance of 1^ to about 2| feet (depending upon the weapon and its charge) merely the wound of entrance of the bullet may be present. In near" ivou7ids produced by modern revolvers the appearances differ from the above inasmuch as the external effects are less marked, there is less blackening from smoke and un- consumed particles of powder, a smaller amount of explosive gases is formed, while the bullet is, as a rule, small and conical. This is due to the charge being in the form of a cartridge, with a minimum charge of powder which may be smoke- less. The entrance wound is frequently not round, but merely a linear slit in the skin, often difficult to detect when a weapon of small bore has been used. The exit wound may be recognised in cases of near discharge by its presenting none of the effects of the explosion, while it is, as a rule, smaller, and the edges are everted. When the head is the object fired at, there may be extensive injury of the bones of the skull produced, the fractures being, as a rule, out of all proportion to the size of the bullet. This is due to several causes, but chiefly to the flattening out of the lead after contact with the bone, and to the expansive force of the gases of the explosion, which pass into the cranial cavity along with the bullet. It is very characteristic of the wound of entrance to find a bevelling of the edge of the bone internally, due to a more extensive fracture of the inner table than of the outer; while at the exit wound the opposite appearance may be noted, the external table being fractured to a greater extent than the inner. At the wound of entrance, scrapings of lead will also frequently be found on the edges of the fractured bone. There may be no exit wound; in such cases the bullet will be found, as a rule, lying in the brain substance, or loose at the base of the skull; it may, however, merely exist as shapeless pieces of lead. "Far" wounds, or those produced by dis- charge at a greater distance than three feet, i.e. wounds which cannot under ordinary circum- stances be produced by a suicide, show merely the entrance wound in the skin, which in size will correspond closely to that of the bullet. If only soft tissues are perforated, the exit wound will be very similar, except that there will be, respectively, some inversion and eversion of the edges. If bone is struck, then the bullet is flattened, and splinters may be carried along with it, thus causing the exit wound to be larger than that of entrance, and the eversion of the edges to be better marked. In wounds from shot guns the appearances will vary according to the distance at which the piece is discharged : if quite close at hand, then the shot enter the body practically in one mass and produce a single wound of entrance with great destruction of internal structures; if, however, the piece is discharged at some distance, then the individual shot wounds are discrete. The area of distribution of the shot at different distances depends upon the gun, the charge, and kind of powder and shot used ; and hence to determine the distance of discharge in any case, experiments must be made with the particular gun under similar conditions of shot and powder. The determination of the question of accident, suicide, or homicide will depend largely upon special circvimstances in each case, but evidence of importance may be derived from certain general considerations. Thus self-inflicted acci- deiital wounds may be practically in any situa- tion, as in the back or buttocks as a result of carelessness in passing through hedges with a loaded weapon at full cock ; and in such a case the appearance presented will be that of a " near " wound. The general circumstances will usually enable us to determine the case to be one of accident. Suicidal Wounds must have the characters of " near " Wounds.—In cases of suicide the weapon will generally be found close to the body, or even grasped in the hand—the latter a sign in itself strongly presumptive of suicide. The hand which fired the weapon is often blackened with smoke between the thumb and forefinger, rarely, however, when the modern revolver is used; and lastly, the position and direction of the wound must be such as is consistent with suicide. It is well recognised that, except in rare instances, the suicide chooses one of three positions on the body : the mouth, the right temple (if right-handed), and lastly, the region of the heart. Of course a homicidal wound may be in any of these positions—the above situa- tions merely add to the presumption of suicide when taken along with other evidence. The determination of the direction of a wound is of the utmost importance: some directions, even when the entrance wound is situated in an easily accessible position on the body, would be inconsistent with self-infliction, or, at any rate, render it highly improbable; hence, after determining the wound of entrance and of exit in any case, the direction of discharge should be got by continuing a line connecting these two points. The possibility of deflection of the bullet must, however, be kept in view. Homicidal ivounds may be situated anywhere on the body, and their position may contra- indicate self-infliction—thus, for example, wounds in the back; but, as already mentioned, such situations are not impossible in cases of acci- dent or even in suicide under exceptional cir- cumstances. As a rule a homicidal wound has not the character of a " near " wound, i.e. it is inflicted from some distance beyond two to threeMEDICINE, FORENSIC 257 feet, and this fact under most circumstances should always raise the suspicion of homicide. The fact that two gun-shot wounds are found in the body is not inconsistent with suicide, even when both are fatal wounds and both are in the head. Such cases are recorded, also one where a suicide discharged two chambers of a revolver at his chest, both shots wounding the heart. These facts show that the greatest care must be exercised in the examination of wounds from fire-arms, and that a decision as to their mode of causation can only be arrived at after a consideration of all the circumstances. The projectile should always be carefully sought for; it may have passed through the body, or still be found in it. Even when a weapon has been discharged close to the body, the bullet does not always make an exit, as, for example, frequently occurs in the case of wounds of the skull. In such cases the bullet, greatly deformed or even split up into pieces, may be found lying loose in the brain or cranial cavity, or it may be impacted in the bone opposite to the entrance wound. If no bullet is found, this may be due to none having been used, it having been forgotten in the agitation of the moment of loading, and such a fact is again presumptive of suicide. In these cases the wad or even the force of the explosion may be sufficient to fracture the skull and cause death. The immediate cause of death in wounds from fire-arms may be injury of some vital organ, shock or haemorrhage; and at later periods, secondary haemorrhage and inflamma- tory processes may produce a fatal result. Burns.—Burns are produced by the action of flame or radiant heat, or from contact with hot solids such as metals. Scalds result from heated liquids and produce similar effects. Corrosive acids may produce injuries of the skin like those caused in burns. Burns may vary in degree, from those causing simple redness of the skin to complete charring or destruction of the soft tissues. The cause of death in burns may be due to their extent or to shock, or owing to injury to a vital organ. If the immediate eff'ects are recovered from, death may occur in the course of a few days from internal inflammation or congestion— meningitis, pneumonia, and at a later stage, as a result of exhaustion, suppuration, secondary haemorrhage, sepsis, etc. Death sometimes occurs, after the lapse of three or four weeks, from perforation of a duodenal ulcer. Large superficial burns, of even the slightest degree, are specially dangerous to life, while burns are also very fatal in the young and aged. In general conflagrations, death may have been due to causes other than burning, viz., to asphyxia, from the gases of combustion, COj VOL. VI and CO, or from pressure on the chest in attempting, along with others, to escape from the building; to injuries caused by being trampled upon, or by falling beams, etc.; or lastly, death may have resulted from syncope or shock as a result of fright. It must also be kept in view that burning may have been resorted to in cases of murder, in order to conceal the effects of violence. In making a post-mortem examination, there- fore, these possibilities must be kept in view. The charred bodies of those who have perished in fires are rigid, due to " heat stiffening," and the limbs are frequently contorted and fixed in strange positions. Large gashes or rents in the skin and sub- cutaneous tissues, as well as fractures of the skull, may result simply from the effects of the heat, and must not be mistaken for the result of violence; these appearances are due to bursting or cracking of skin and bone which has been charred by the flame or heat, and are to be distinguished from the effects of violence by the fact that, in the case of soft structures, while the tissues may appear to have been divided by a cutting instrument, the sides of the wound are irregular and connected by bridges of the more resistant structures, such as arteries, tendons, etc., while in addition, the subcutaneous tissues frequently show no sign of burning or of vital reaction. The nature of the fractures in the skull cannot be definitely determined when there is great charring. The fact that death has resulted from burn- ing will be determined by the character and extent of the burns along with the evidence of their having been caused during life. The internal appearances found post-mortem con- sist of congestion of various internal organs, especially the brain, lungs, and kidneys; the blood is coagulated, and is frequently of a brighter colour than usual; this alteration in colour occurs apart from the presence of CO haemoglobin, and arises simply from the action of heat. Death may, however, not have been due to burning, but to some of the other causes mentioned above. This will be indicated by the absence of signs of vital reaction in the burns, together with evidence of death having been caused in other ways, as, for example, by asphyxia, indicated by the presence of CO in the blood, and particles of soot, etc., in the air- passages ; from injuries received from falling beams, crushing and trampling under foot, etc., when these injuries are of a fatal character and show evidence of having been caused during life. Distinction between Burns caused during Life and after Death.—As a rule the burn caused during life can be recognised, except when the parts are much charred, by the presence of signs of vital reaction, hyperaemia, swelling, etc.FORENSIC 258 MEDICINE, In superficial burns of slight degree causing merely an erythema of the skin, the red blush seen during life tends to disappear after death owing to hypostasis; and if death has occurred rapidly, there may be considerable difficulty in recognising the nature of the injury, post-mortem. In burns of a greater degree of severity, as, for example, where blisters are produced, or the true skin is burnt, there is no difiiculty, since such burns, caused during life, are always accom- panied with more or less injection of the capil- laries (hyperaemia), which remains permanent after death. A blister resulting from a burn produced during life contains a fluid rich in albumin ; the base of the blister is injected, and it is surrounded with a well-marked border-line of hyperaemia. Heat applied to a dead body may caiise a blister, which, however, contains only air, or exceptionally, some fluid, while the tissues at the base and surrounding it are perfectly pale. In burns in which the true skin is wholly or partially destroyed during life, there is usually a line of deep injection at the edge of the burn, whereas in post-mortem burns this appear- ance is absent. In cases where the tissues are charred, signs of vital reaction may still be evident, but, on the other hand, they may have been destroyed by the continued action of the flame. Injuries caused hy Lightning.—These may consist of localised burns, ecchymoses, lacera- tions and fractures in various parts of the body, and the skin frequently shows erythematous markings, forming an arborescent pattern. The diagnosis of death or injury by lightning will usually be determined from the circumstances and surroundings of the body; from the presence of burns on the body and clothing, the fusing of any metal such as a watch-chain, and from the fact that the clothes of the person are often torn and even stripped from the body in the most extraordinary manner. Sometimes, however, there are no signs of injury, or any indication of how death has occurred. There are no characteristic internal post-mortem appearances. Recovery may take place after lightning stroke, the person showing various nervous symptoms, paralyses, etc., which sooner or later pass off. Electric currents of high tension may cause serious injury or death. The local effects con- sist of burns at the parts which come in contact with the conductor. There are diff"erent views as to the mode in which death is caused, whether by paralysis of the heart or by arrest of respira- tion. The post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, although generally the blood is fluid and other signs of death from asphyxia are present (see also "Electricity," vol. iii. p. 56). The treatment of such a case must consist in at once freeing the person from the wire, with due personal precautions, and then in endeavour- ing to resuscitate by means of artificial respira- tion, venesection, and general measures for promoting the action of the heart and lungs. Death from Starvation.—Criminal charges of starvation occur most frequently in the case of young children, and the condition is generally accompanied with other well-marked evidence of general neglect (see also "Atrophy, Infantile," vol. i. p. 324). Post-mortem.—The condition is characterised by great emaciation (although in acute starva- tion death may ensue before emaciation becomes marked), with almost total absence of sub- cutaneous fat; atrophy or disappearance of the thymus gland; marked atrophy of the spleen. Organs such as the liver, heart, and kidneys may show little or no loss of weight. The stomach and intestines are contracted and empty, or contain only a little bilious fluid. The ivalls of the intestine become atrophied and transparent. The bladder contains little or no urine. There is an appearance of general and advanced anaemia. The difficulty of securing a conviction in charges of starvation arises from the fact that death is more frequently due to an insufficiency of suitable food rather than to an absolute deprivation, while, on the other hand, it must be borne in mind that great emaciation and other signs of death from starvation result from many forms of disease, more especially tuberculosis, diarrhoea, dysentery, cancer, and certain diseases of the nervous system. In all cases, therefore, we must carefully note the character of any contents of the intestines —the presence of some old hard feecal masses is not inconsistent with death from starvation; and more particularly evidence of the existence of any disease sufficient to account for the condition and death of the patient must be looked for. Death from Cold and Exposure.—There are no characteristic post-mortem appearances of this cause of death. We can only attribute death to cold and exposure after a consideration of the circumstances under which the body has been found, and in the absence of any other injury or condition sufficient to account for death. At the same time it must be remembered that death from cold and exposure is especially liable to result in states of great fatigue and of ex- haustion from want of nourishment, while in persons who are suffering from great shock to the nervous system, as, for example, after attempts to ravish, or violent assaults, exposure to cold not infrequently results in death. Persons lying exposed while under the influence of drink are easily aff'ected by low temperatures. The mere fact of a body being found frozen does not necessarily indicate that death was due to exposure to cold. The person may have been killed, or died from other causes, and the body have become frozen subsequently. The presenceFORENSIC 259 MEDICINE, of signs of decomposition in a frozen body would indicate this probability, provided the frost had been continuous and uninterrupted since the probable date of death. Death from Asphyxia General Considerations .... 259 ,, Post-mortem Appearances . . 259 Death from Hanging .... 260 „ Strangulation . . .261 Death from Drowning . . . .262 „ Suffocation (Choking, Over- laying) . . . .262 Gases, CO^, CO . . . 263 Asphyxia.—Death from asphyxia occurs when the respiratory function is arrested from any cause. In forensic medicine we have usually in mind those causes which mechanically prevent the access of air to the lungs, as in closure of the respiratory openings by some external obstruction, fluid or solid (drowning, smother- ing), or by some internal obstruction (choking); or again, by external pressure upon the neck or chest (strangulation, fixation of the chest-walls); or lastly, from such a cause as pneumothorax. Asphyxia may, however, result from internal causes apart from such forms of violent death, e.g. certain poisons which paralyse or tetanise the respiratory muscles—Curare, Strychnia— interference with the respiratory centre, directly or reflexly, as in compression of the brain, or by the circulation of certain poisons in the blood; and again, interference with the quantity or quality of the blood-supply to the brain will produce asphyxia, as in cases of htemorrhage, and poisoning by CO2 and CO gases. It follows, therefore, that the post-mortem appearances of death from asphyxia will be found in many other forms of death than those due to violence or which are produced by mechanical means. When the entrance of air into the lungs is prevented, three stages of asphyxia are seen : 1st, A stage of dyspnoea, which comes on in a few seconds, and is characterised by rapid, violent, inspiratory efforts, due to excitation of the respiratory centre in the medulla oblongata, by deficiency of oxygen in the blood; 2nd, A stage of convulsions. Unconsciousness comes on very quickly (generally within a minute) in acute asphyxia, and is accompanied by general clonic convulsions and expiratory efforts. The duration and intensity of this stage depends largely upon individual circumstances, such as age and strength. In weak or exhausted persons, as also in those who are drunk or drugged, convulsions may be only very slight, or even entirely absent. The 3rd stage may be termed that of ex- haustion, and is characterised by a few irregular, weak inspiratory efforts. All these phenomena may occur within the period of two or three minutes in cases where the air is absolutely occluded, or be more protracted in asphyxia less acutely induced. It is important to remember these stages in death from asphyxia, for they help us to explain the variations in the post-mortem appearances which are so frequently met with. It is often a matter of surprise that, in undoubted cases of death by hanging or suffocation, the post- mortem appearances are not well marked, and do not correspond with those which are described in books as characteristic of death from asphyxia. The explanation is to be found in the fact that the intensity and duration of the dyspnoeic and convulsive stages are largely accountable for the presence or absence of characteristic post-mortem appearances. Con- gestion of the lungs, brain, and other organs chiefly arises during the first stage, or that of dyspnoea, with its inspiratory efforts, while petechial ecchymoses on the pleurte, epicardium, and in the connective tissvxes have been shown to be produced during the convulsive stage. Should either of these stages be absent, or present only in a minor degree, then the post- mortem appearances will be modified accordingly. Even such a characteristic post-mortem appear- ance in death from asphyxia as fluidity of the blood may be much modified in cases where the stages have been long drawn out, so that loose coagula are found in the heart in undoubted cases of death from this cause. The post - mortem appearances which are common to all forms of death from asphyxia, but which are subject to modification owing to the reasons above indicated, are: external appearances—slower cooling of the body, well- marked post-mortem lividity, due to the fluidity of the blood and the fact that, as a rule, the quantity of blood in the body has not been re- duced from any cause ; cyanosis of the face and injection of the conjunctivse—this appearance, however, is frequently absent when the body is seen after death, because of the gravitation of the blood to the dependent parts of the body; petechial ecchymoses seen in the conjunctivae, the mucous membranes of the mouth, and some- times on the skin. These vary in size from a pin-point to a lentil seed, and do not disappear as a result of gravitation of the blood. They are due to rupture of capillaries owing to increased blood-pressure, and are caused during the convulsive stage, and hence may be present or absent in cases of asphyxia according to the violence of the convulsions. They do not occur in all cases, even when the asphyxia has been violent and acute, the condition of the capillaries influencing their production, e.g. in the young, aged, or those suffering from disease. Consider- able importance is attached to the presence of such ecchymoses in violent death from asphyxia, but they are not absolutely diagnostic, since they may occur in other forms of death, e.g.260 MEDICINE, FORENSIC convulsions, epilepsy. It is also possible for petechial ecchymoses to be produced post-mor- tem, as, for example, when a person has hanged himself and the body remains suspended for several hours. The blood then gravitates to the lower limbs, and the weight of a consider- able column of blood may cause rupture of capil- laries, more especially when these happen to be diseased. The seminal fluid frequently found escaping from the urethra after death from violent asphyxia has no medico-legal significance, as it is simply a result of the general post-mortem relaxation of the sphincters in the body, and is therefore found in other forms of death as well as in death from asphyxia. Internal Appearances.—The three chief in- ternal appearances are :— 1. A dark fluid condition of the blood. 2. Distension of the right side of the heart with blood and congestion of the lungs, brain, and other internal organs ; and 3. The presence of petechial ecchymoses. The dark colour of the blood is a general appearance in all forms of death, and is not confined to death from asphyxia, although in the latter it is usually more marked, and shows, with the spectroscope, a greater degree of reduction of the haemoglobin. Reduction of the hsemogiobin, and consequent darkening in the colour of the blood, takes place post-mortem in all forms of death by the action of the tissues, and, finally, owing to putrefactive processes. The fluidity of the blood is a very constant appearance in asphyxia, although it is not confined to violent asphyxia, but is present in most cases where respiration has been interfered with from any cause, and also in cases of sudden death. Fluidity of the blood is not therefore absolutely characteristic of asphyxia. The congestion of the right side of the heart, lungs, and other internal organs is not a constant appearance, and in death from drowning, hang- ing, strangulation, suffocation, and other typical forms of death from asphyxia, the congestion of the lungs and other organs may be by no means marked. As already indicated, this is accounted for by the fact that such congestion is produced by the dyspnoea and efforts at inspiration which occur at the commencement of asphyxia, and therefore should this stage be present only to a slight degree, it follows that the post-mortem appearances will be relatively altered. Petechial ecchymoses similar to those men- tioned as occurring externally may be found under the pleurte and epicardium, in the peri- cardium, in the connective tissue in various parts of the body—e.g. under the sternum, around the aorta—in the larynx, trachea, epiglottis, and in the scalp as well as within the cranium, on the dura mater, etc. Considerable importance may be attached to the pi-esence of such ecchymoses in the diagnosis of death from violent forms of asphyxia, more especially when they are present in the various situations indicated above ; but as already men- tioned, they are not absolutely characteristic, since, for example, in cases of children dying during convulsions, similar ecchymoses are frequently found. Death from Hanging.—In this form of death the constricting force is the weight of the body exerted upon a rope or other band passing round the neck. The only characteristic external appearance is the mark produced by the constricting band. Apart from this there is usually nothing to indicate that death has taken place from causes other than natural; the face is pale and placid, and there is no evidence of any struggle. The mark of constriction is a furrow, its depth, breadth, and appearance depending upon the nature of the constricting band. It is usually of a brownish-red colour, and the skin has a hard, parchment-like consistence where the greatest pressure has been exerted. This parchment-like appearance is due to compres- sion of the skin and also to abrasion of the cuticle, causing a desiccation of the skin, and it is purely the result of physical processes. A similar appearance is produced by injuring the cuticle on any part of the body after death, and hence in cases of hanging it must not be looked upon as indicative of suspension during life; it will also occur in bodies suspended after death. Frequently, however, in the parchment-like area or at its edges, injection or hypersemia of the capillaries and ecchymoses will be found ; this is indicative of suspension during life, and cannot be simulated by post-mortem suspension. If the constricting band has been of soft material, e.g. a silk handkerchief, then the cuticle is not likely to be abraded, and hence we do not have a brown, parchment-like con- dition produced, but simply a pale furrow with more or less lividity of the edges on either side, but more especially above the furrow. The position of the constriction mark will vary according to the mode of suspension : if a run- ning noose has been employed, or the rope is tied close round the neck before suspension, then the furrow will completely encircle the neck, the position of the knot being indicated by an irregular area of compression, while the deepest depression of the furrow will be on the side opposite to that on which the knot has been situated. If, however, as most commonly hap- pens, the neck is placed in a fixed loop, then the constriction mark will only partially encircle the neck, and it assumes the highest position which the anatomical relations will allow. In such cases we find the furrow, as a rule, running in front of the neck between the hyoid and thy- roid cartilages, passing backwards and upwards behind the angle of the jaw and the mastoid261 MEDICINE, FORENSIC process, and losing itself in the hair of the head behind. In this the most usual position it will be recog- nised that neither the tracheanor larynx is pressed upon. The air-passages are, however, occluded by the root of the tongiie being pressed upwards and backwards against the posterior pharyngeal wall. A result of this is, that the anterior portion of the tongue is pushed forwards, and hence not infrequently in hanging it is found protruding from the mouth, or pressing against the teeth. In hanging, other factors besides occlusion of air play a part in the production of death and also in accounting for the rapid onset of un- consciousness, namely, the large vessels of the neck are compressed, and thus interference with the blood-supply of the brain takes place, while the vagus nerves may also be affected by the constriction, and inhibit the heart's action. This is indicated by the frequent absence of well- marked post-mortem signs of death from asphyxia, and also by the body often being found in a position which betokens very rapid loss of power of voluntary movement. Evidence of the effect on the carotids will often be found in the form of transverse rup- ture of the inner sheath immediately below the bifurcation. The question of accident, suicide, or murder will be determined from the circumstances as a rule. In suicidal hanging, the body may be foimd in any position, viz., entirely suspended above the ground, or with the feet resting upon it, and even the fact of the person being in a sitting posture with the biittocks resting upon the ground is not inconsistent with suicide. Such postures bear evidence to the rapidity with which unconsciousness and power of vokintary muscular movement is lost. Homicidal hanging is rare, and in any actual case we should expect to find evidence on the deceased of a struggle, and should have to pre- sume that there had been more than a single assailant, or, except in the case of a child, that the victim had been first rendered helpless by violence or drugs. A murderer may attempt to simulate suicide by suspending a body after death; in such a case, the absence of signs of vital reaction in the constriction mark, and the presence of other marks of violence or other cause of death, would indicate the nature of the case. Strangulation.—In this form of death the constriction may be effected by a cord or other form of band, or by means of the hands, so- called manual strangulation or throttling. When a cord is used, the constriction mark is similar in appearance to that produced in hanging, but it occupies a lower position in the neck, because the force is no longer the weight of the body, and it is exerted in a horizontal direction. As a rule, the force employed is much more violent. causing greater injury, not only to the skin, but also to the structures beneath. The post-mortem appearances of death from asphyxia are more marked, as a rule, than in death by hanging; but apart from the local effects of the constriction, there is no special appearance characteristic of this mode of death. As in hanging, so here also, death is not always due solely to closure of the air-passages, but is combined with compression of the large vessels of the neck and interference with the blood- supply of the brain, and, especially in manual strangulation, pressure upon the laryngeal nerves also plays a part. Suicide by strangulation is rare, but still possible, as cases on record prove. A person may tie a cord round the neck, and then using a piece of stick as a lever, twist it until the cord is so tight as to bring on imconsciousness, when instead of the lever untwisting itself again, it catches in some obstacle and thus continues the compression. Apart from such means, however, it is possible for a person to tie a cord so tightly round his neck as to produce death. Homicidal strangulation is much more common and is especially easy of execution in the case of children. With adults it is more difficult, although if they happen to be helpless from any cause, such as drink, or are taken unawares, the signs of resistance and evidence of a struggle which one would naturally expect to find may be absent. Manual Strangulation — Throttling. — Com- paratively slight compression of the larynx is sufficient to cause complete closure of the vocal cords, or to force the base of the tongue upwards and backwards against the posterior pharyngeal wall. In both conditions asphyxia occurs in a few seconds; but it is also probable—and this fact helps to explain the great ease with which the garrotter is able to carry out his design—that in manual compression of the larynx, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus is injured, thus producing inhibition of the respiration. The post-mortem appearances found in such cases are usually very characteristic, consisting of scratches, finger-nail marks, and bruises in the front of the neck. These marks are more numerous on the left side as a rule: this side corresponding to that on which the fingers of a right-handed assailant will act, as distinguished from the thumb, which will exert pressure upon the right side. There will also probably be other marks of violence and signs of a struggle. In attempted throttling, even if there be no immediate signs or symptoms of the violence present on the assaulted party, corroborative evidence may often be obtained after a day or two from the appearance of bruises on the neck, and also in the development of hoarseness of voice and pain on swallowing. Fractures of the larynx (hyoid, thyroid, and cricoid), as well as effusions of blood in theFORENSIC 262 MEDICINE, subcutaneous structures of the neck, are much more common as a result of throttling than of either hanging or strangulation by means of a constricting cord. In suicidal hanging it is exceptional to find fractures of the thyroid or cricoid cartilages. Partial ruptures of muscles are, however, not infrequent, e.g. sterno-mastoid, platysma. Drowning.—In drowning, the cause of death is pure asphyxia through air being prevented from entering the lungs by means of a fluid medium. The medium may be any fluid, and it is of course not essential that more of the body than the mouth and nostrils should be im- mersed in order to produce death by drowning. External Post-mortem Appem-ances.—Marked coldness of the body, cutis anserina, retraction of penis and scrotum, bleaching and a sodden wrinkled condition of the skin of the hands and soles of the feet, are only indicative of a body having been immersed in water, it may be 2)ost- mortem, and are not therefore characteristic of death by diowning. Goose skin and also con- traction of the penis and scrotum may occur in other forms of death merely as a result of rigor mortis. The only two external appearances strongly indicative of death by drowning are : 1st, The presence of fine foam in the mouth and nose ; and 2nd, The presence of weeds, gravel, etc., firmly grasped in the hands. Internal Appearances. — Besides the general signs of death by asphyxia, more or less well developed, there are three appearances charac- teristic of drowning. 1. Distension of the lungs so that they fill the cavity of the chest—" Balloon lungs " \ they are sodden with water, pit on pressure, and, on section, a quantity of frothy fluid escapes. This condition arises chiefly during the terminal respirations in the third stage of as- phyxia, when unconsciousness supervenes and the reflexes have become destroyed, the fluid being then drawn into the smallest bronchioles and alveolse. During the first stage of dyspnoea no fluid enters the air-passages, or if it does, is at once expelled; while during the second or convulsive stage, water may find its way into the stomach ; but the reflexes not being wholly abolished, water which passes into the larynx is to a large extent rejected, while the expiratory eff"orts which characterise this stage account for the production of the fine foam found in the air-passages after death. The amount of water which penetrates into the lungs producing this " balloon " appearance in a more or less typical form will depend upon the duration and strength of the terminal inspirations before death. 2. Presence of water in the stomach. This is due to water having been swallowed during the first and second stages, and it is often large in amount. It must be distinguished from water drunk before immersion ; this may be done by a microscopic examination of the water in many instances, e.g. the discovery of substances identi- fying it with the water of the canal, pond, etc., in which the body is found. 3. Presence of fine white foam or froth in the trachea and air-passages generally. This fine foam is very characteristic of drowning, and is not to be confounded with the coarse froth frequently seen in cases of death, in which there has been asphyxia from any other cause. In death from drowning, the first green dis- coloration of the skin, as a result of putrefaction, is usually seen in the neck or upper part of the sternum, as distinguished from other forms of death, in which it usually appears in the lower part of the abdomen. Putrefaction is delayed so long as the body remains immersed, but on exposure to the air decomposition advances as a rule with great rapidity. A body sinks on immersion at first, but rises to the surface, unless mechanically prevented, whenever, owing to the development of gases of putrefaction in the body cavities, its specific gravity becomes less than that of the water. The time when a body rises will therefore vary according to the progress of putrefaction, and thus cceteris paribus occurs sooner in summer than in winter, etc. Suicide by drowning is very common; so, too, is accidental drowning, especially during the summer months. It will be impossible to decide whether drowning is homicidal in any case, imless there are injuries on the body betokening a struggle, or other evidence to lead to such a conclusion. In all cases it is im- portant to determine whether death has actually taken place from drowning, since naturally a body may be thrown into the water after death has been caused by other means. In suicidal drowning, however, a body may present marks of violence, either as a result of an attempt at suicide by another method im- mediately before, or as a result of striking some hard object in plunging into the water, or again the injuries may be of post-mortem origin caused by barge poles, lock-gates, paddles of steamers, washing of the body against rocks by the action of waves, etc. It such cases it is necessary to determine whether the injuries present the signs of vital reaction characteristic of production during life. Warning must be given not to mistake the eff"ects of decomposition, and the action of water- rats, fish, and crabs, etc., for injuries and mutila- tions produced by violence during life. Asphyxia produced by the presence of foreign bodies in the air-passages (choking^ is common as a result of accident, but is extremely rare as a means of suicide, or of homicide, except in the case of very young children. Smothering, overlaying, are frequently the cause of accidental death : the former in the caseMEDICINE, FORENSIC 263 of adults while in a state of drunkenness, and the latter in young children who sleep in the same bed along with the father and mother. Smothering may, of course, be homicidal. The post-mortem appearances consist, as a rule, only of those common to all forms of death from asphyxia, hence the difficulty of proving the crime. Signs of a struggle and marks of violence are to be expected if the deceased was able- bodied and capable of offering resistance. In cases of overlaying there is often flattening of the nose, or one side of the face may be pale and flattened owing to pressure, thus indicating the cause of the asphyxia. But, apart from such external signs, the post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, blood-stained froth at the mouth and nose, petechial ecchymoses in the conjunctivae, pleurae, and on the surface of the heart, fluid blood, and congestion of internal organs being signs all consistent with death from convulsions as well as from overlaying. An exception might perhaps be made in re- gard to the presence of blood-stained froth issuing from the mouth and nostrils, as in a very large number of post-mortems in cases of death from convulsions I have rarely if ever seen it, whereas in overlaying it is a very common and most characteristic appearance. Asphyxia, the result of breathing irrespirahle gases.—All gases which do not permit of the oxygenation of the blood will cause asphyxia, but practically those which most commonly cause fatal results are COg and CO. Carbonic acid (COg) may cause death owing to the products of combustion from a fire or stove passing into a room, either from there being no outlet, or by down-draught in a chimney or flue; from escapes of the gas from old coal workings travelling through the ground and passing into the cellars of houses, and thence to upper apartments; by men entering wells, sewers, brewers' vats in which the gas has accumulated, or from sleeping in proximity to lime-kilns, and as a result of explosions in mines. Death occurs from pure asphyxia, due to the COo preventing a sufficiency of oxygen gaining access to the blood. Unconsciousness is quickly produced, while if the amovmt of COg present is large, almost instantaneous loss of muscular power and unconsciousness may be produced ; vomiting sometimes occurs. The external post-mortem appearances are : congestion and cyanosis of the head, neck, and face, froth in the mouth and air-passages—often deeply blood-stained—very marked and extensive post-mortem lividity, which is of a deep purple colour. Petechial ecchymoses may be present in the skin and other tissues. Internally, the appearances are those charac- teristic of typical death from asphyxia. Carbonic Oxide (CO).—Carbonic oxide most frequently produces death owing to escape of ordinary lighting-gas, and more especially is this dangerous if it has received an admixture of water-gas (as is now frequently the case), which increases the proportion of CO very con- siderably. CO is also a product of incomplete combustion, and hence may cause fatal accidents where gas-heating arrangements are used, or where, in slow combustion stoves, the stoves or flues are defective. It is a product of explosions in mines, and may also be the cause of death in the burning of buildings. Asphyxia is produced owing to a stable compound being formed between the haemoglobin and CO (carbonic oxide haemoglobin), thus mechanically preventing the haemoglobin acting as an oxygen-carrier to the tissues. It is a cumulative poison, the blood, even when small percentages are present in the atmosphere, gradually becoming more and more saturated until death ensues. Carbonic oxide haemoglobin is characterised by a bright pink colour, which is very distinct in dilute blood solutions, and which produces a corresponding pink colour of the post-mortem lividity patches. Its presence in blood may be definitely determined by means of the spectro- scope, since although it gives rise to two bands somewhat similar to the spectrum of oxy- haemoglobin, yet, in the case of the latter, these bands can be transformed into one broad band (reduced haemoglobin) by means of a reducing agent, e.g. ammonium sulphide, whereas the combination of carbonic oxide and haemoglobin is more stable, and is not affected by the ad- dition of such reducing agents, the two bands between the lines D and E still remaining distinct. The symptoms are dizziness, increased respira- tory and cardiac action, nausea and vomiting, drowsiness, muscular weakness, coma. The post-mortem appearances are chiefly a bright pink colour of the post-mortem lividity patches, and also of the blood throughout the organs and tissues of the body, together with the ordinary appearances of death from asphyxia. The treatment of both COg and CO poisoning consists in providing plenty of fresh air, inhala- tion of oxygen, artificial respiration, stimulation and warmth (see also "Asphyxia," vol. i.). Rape 263 Pregnancy ...... 265 Delivery 265 Abortion ...... 266 Infanticide ...... 267 Examination of Blood-Stains . . 269 Rape.—Rape is the carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her will. By the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1885, any person who has carnal knowledge of a girl under 13 years, with or without her consent, is guilty of a felony, while the attempt is a mis- demeanour. Any person who has, or attemptsFORENSIC 264 MEDICINE, to have, carnal knowledge of a girl between 13 and 16, with consent, or even on solicitation by the girl, is guilty of a misdemeanour. It is a sufficient defence in such cases, where there has been consent, that the accused had reasonable groTind to believe that the girl was of or over the age of 16 years. The accusation must be brought, however, within three months of the commission of the offence. It is also a misdemeanour to have, or to attempt to have, carnal knowledge of a female idiot or imbecile, under circumstances which do not amount to rape, and when the oiTender knew that the girl or woman was an idiot or imbecile. In order to constitute the crime of rape it is not essential that there shall have been emission, or even penetration, since the mere introduction of the penis within the vulvae is sufficient, and it is, therefore, not necessary that the hymen shall have been injured. Consent means free consent by a woman who is uninfluenced by extreme terror, and who is fully conscious at the time. Intercourse with consent obtained by personation of a husband, or by threatening the life of the woman, is rape. The administration of any drug or other matter with intent to stupefy or overpower, so as to enable any person to have unlawful carnal connection, is a misdemeanour. It must be noted that rape may be committed on unchaste as well as chaste women, and there- fore that forcible intercourse with a prostitute against her will constitutes the crime. In all cases of rape on adults it is naturally required that the woman should resist to the uttermost of her power, and hence in all such charges we expect to find evidence of a struggle and resistance on her part. Such evidence must be sought for in disorder of dress, scratches or bruises about the face and neck due to attempts to prevent cries for help, bruises about the thighs and wrists, etc. In the absence of such signs of a struggle a medical man must consider the possibility of the woman having fainted, or of more than one ofi'ender having been impli- cated in the assault, and of the possibility of the woman having been rendered helpless by administration of drugs or from other causes which would prevent her offering resistance. As a rule, the probability of a strong woman being forcibly overcome by a single man is ex- tremely doubtful, and unless there are special circumstances connected with the case, such as those indicated above, charges of this nature must be investigated with special care. The comparative strength of the woman and her assailant must always receive consideration. Charges of rape most frequently occur in connection with children. In them we do not expect to find evidence of resistance, nor, as a matter of fact, are the local signs of violence to the genital organs usually marked unless forcible penetration has been attempted and great brutality has been used. In the case of young children charges of in- decent assault are very frequent, but as a rule the assault merely consists in libidinous practices, without serious injury to the genital organs. There are frequently in these cases slight abrasions of the frenulum or inner surface of the labia, accompanied with inflammatory red- ness of the parts and tenderness. Frequently in the case of young children a mother suspects an indecent assault from the appearance of irri- tation of the external genitals or presence of a whitish muco-puriilent discharge. This may be the result of attempted rape and gonorrhoeal infection, but, on the other hand, it cannot be too strongly accentuated that a similar condition is frequently the result of imcleanliness, poverty, and defective nutrition. The distinction be- tween such an innocent discharge and a gonor- rhoea may be made by means of staining for gonococci (somewhat similar organisms may be present in innocent discharges), and by observing the effect of general treatment ; innocent dis- charges quickly disappearing, as a rule, on the application of ordinary remedies and cleanliness, whereas gonorrhoea is more intractable. In rape upon girls of more advanced age the local appearances may consist of injury to the hymen and other parts of the genital organs, but the extent of the injuries will depend upon the physical development of the individual and violence used in each case. The hymen will in all probability be ruptured if there has been complete penetration, and the other signs of injury may consist in lacerations of the entrance to the vagina, and of its walls implicating the bladder anteriorly or rectum behind. Rupture of the hymen is, however, not a necessary result of complete penetration even in young virgins, and in all cases care must be exercised not to confound natural irregularities of the free margin of the hymen for ruptures either of recent or remote origin. In women who have been accustomed to sexual intercourse, while we may expect more marked evidence of a struggle and resistance to the assault, and while injuries caused by the fingers on the external surface of the genital organs are frequently seen, signs of injury in- ternally, as a result of the act of connection, may be wholly absent. Under all circumstances it is important that the examination of the assaulted party should take place without any delay or warning. The general appearance and behaviour of the woman must be noted, as also the condition of her dress and any marks of external violence, likewise the condition of her external genital organs with reference to scratches, presence of semen sticking to the pubic hairs, or on her clothing; and internally, any appearances indicative of violence or recent connection.MEDICINE, FORENSIC 265 With regard to the examination of the private parts of any woman under whatever circum- stances, it must be remembered that this can only be carried out with her full consent, after she has been made aware of the object of the examination, and of the fact that it may provide evidence incriminating herself. No official authority, written or verbal, justifies the ex- amination of a woman against her will, but naturally in certain circumstances, as in charges of rape, it is the interest of the assaulted party to permit an examination to be made. It will be advisable to have such consent given in the presence of witnesses, while the examination should also, if possible, be carried out in the presence of another woman. The discovery of spermatozoa in the vagina will be strong corroboration of a charge of rape; but at the same time it is well known that living spermatozoa may be found in the vagina for at least a week after connection, and hence their presence may be due to a previous act of coition. A small spatula, pipette, or other suitable instrument should be introduced into the vagina and some of the contained mucus removed. As it is often impossible at once to proceed ■with the microscopical examination, and since it is inadvisable to allow the mucus to become dry, it will be found useful to place what is removed from the vagina between two microscope slides. In this way the material remains moist for many hours, and the spermatozoa are not injured. The mucus should be examined, however, as soon as possible under the microscope, with a power of at least 400. When seminal stains on linen or other fabrics have to be examined it should be remembered that the fabric must be handled gently. If there are dried seminal crusts upon it, these may be detached, allowed to soften in a drop of distilled water very slightly acidified with HCl, otherwise, a small piece of the stained fabric must be cut out, placed on a glass slide, and moistened with a drop of distilled water as above. The time allowed for maceration will depend on the age of the stain. The piece of fabric is then gently pressed on the slide, and the slightly milky fluid thus obtained is ex- amined under the microscope. The addition of a drop of a solution of iodine dissolved in iodide of potassium placed at the edge of the cover- glass is a very simple yet effective method of staining the bodies of the spermatozoa and thus rendering them more easily visible. No person should swear to the presence of spermatozoa xmless he finds typical and unmistakable speci- mens. To the unpractised there are many things in the field of vision in preparations of such discharges which resemble spermatozoa, although there is nothing the microscopist with some experience is able to recognise with more certainty and speak to with greater confidence if present. Examination of accused 'party in cases of Rape.—This should always be undertaken, but it can only be performed under the same restriction as pertains to the examination of a woman, viz., with consent. Evidence of a struggle, scratches on the face, wrists, etc., should be looked for, while an examination of the genital organs may disclose the presence of abrasions, or of disease, which may afford important evidence in certain cases — or the clothing may show blood and seminal stains. Signs of Pregnancy. — A knowledge of the signs of pregnancy is of importance to the medical j urist, since in civil as well as in criminal cases questions as to the existence of pregnancy at the time of examination, or within a recent period, frequently arise. The various signs of pregnancy are described under the appropriate article {vide " Preg- nancy "), and need not be repeated here. A word of caution may, however, be given, viz., since a great responsibility is incurred by a positive opinion leading to criminal proceed- ings, a decision should not be come to until the absolute signs of pregnancy are present and proof positive is thus obtained. Delivery.—The question whether a woman has been recently delivered of a child is one which has to be determined frequently in con- nection with charges of infanticide, and also of suspected abortion. It is of great importance that the examination should be made as soon as possible, since the appearances presenting themselves will depend largely upon the time which has elapsed since delivery, as well as upon the period of gestation at which delivery has taken place. Of course the consent of a woman to the examination must be obtained, as previously mentioned. The signs of quite recent delivery are well known to every practitioner, and it is therefore only necessary to emphasise a fact which is of great interest and importance, viz., the absence in some women of any outward indications of delivery having recently occurred, so that even doctors may be deceived unless a strict examina- tion is made. Not only may a primipara, who is living in daily association and sleeping in the same room with other women, nay, even sleeping in the same bed with another woman, successfully conceal her condition until the end of pregnancy, but she may retire for a quarter of an hour into privacy, and on returning, resume her work along with the rest of the household, without the fact being discovered that in the interval she has been delivered of a child ; not only so, but she may be able to continue to conceal the fact without discovery. After the lapse of one or two weeks, the definite determination of the fact of recent delivery having occurred becomes more difficult;266 MEDICINE, FOKENSIC and after four weeks, as a rule, it may be im- possible to give even an approximate estimate as to the time of the occurrence. Abortion. — In Scotland, the procuring of abortion is a crime at common law. The English statute is as follows : " Every woman being with child, who with intent to procure her own miscarriage shall unlawfully administer to herself any poison or other noxious thing, or shall unlawfully use any instrument or other means whatsoever with like intent; and whoso- ever with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall unlawfully administer, etc., shall be guilty of a felony. " Whosoever shall unlawfully supply or pro- cure any poison or other noxious thing, or any instrviment or thing whatsoever, knowing that the same is intended to be unlawfully used or employed with intent to procure the miscarriage of any woman, whether she be or be not with child, shall be guilty of a misdemeanour." The intent constitutes the crime; and any person who through his actions with such intent causes death, is guilty of murder. Criminal abortion consists in causing the contents of the womb to be expelled at any period of gestation short of full time, and is not confined to expulsion of the ovum during the earlier months of pregnancy. At the same time it will be noted from the clauses of the statute quoted above, that in order to constitute the crime it is not necessary that the woman shall be pregnant. It is doubtful whether the procuring of abortion for strictly medical reasons is intended to be excepted by the wording of the statute above quoted; but in Scotland, where the crime is prosecuted under the common law, this exception is clearly recognised. In any case there can be no question of the advisability of every medical man protecting himself from any possible reflection upon his conduct, by holding a con- sultation with a colleague before inducing premature labour, and at the same time of informing the relatives of the circumstances and getting their permission. The means used to procure criminal abortion may be divided into three classes :— (1) General mechanical violence, such as violent exercise—jiunping from heights, etc. (2) Administration of drugs. It is not necessary that the drug shall be a poison or even a noxious thing in a popular sense. Almost any substance which causes a violent reaction in the system may excite uterine contractions. Even ordinary medical substances in large doses, such as sulphate of magnesia, aloes, etc., may by their action on the bowel induce abortion. The substances which are most often employed, however, are those which are popularly supposed to have a specific effect, e.g. pennyroyal, rue, savin, ergot, cantharides, etc. (3) Instrumental interference with the con- tents of the uterus. The first two methods are usually employed by the woman herself in the early period of pregnancy — and they are very uncertain. There is no absolutely reliable abortifacient drug—even large doses of ergot being very often futile. Savin is an active irritant poison, and frequently causes death without any effect on the uterus having been produced. In the post-mortem examination of cases where criminal abortion is suspected, the contents of the stomach and intestines should be carefully examined for traces of vegetable substances which may, in the absence of chemical tests, lead to the identification of the substance taken. In considering charges of abortion, a medical witness must always keep in mind its great frequency in a very large proportion of women, owing to natural causes, and by what slight means it may be accidentally induced in those who are predisposed. When the period arrives at which it becomes difficult to conceal the pregnancy, i.e. after the fourth month, and after other methods have failed, the third and most certain method of procuring abortion, viz., instrumental interfer- ence, is usually resorted to. This the woman may attempt to carry out herself, but more commonly she seeks the aid of another. There can be little doubt that only a small proportion of the total number of criminal abortions be- come the subject of investigation, since, if all goes well, there is every reason for concealment of the crime. A fatal result is generally due to septicsemia, the result of perforation of the cervix or uterus with the instrument employed. Such instruments are usually more or less pointed and septic, so that in the hands of persons un- skilled in anatomy they are very dangerous. It has been stated by an eminent authority that if acute septicEemia follows abortion in the course of a few days, instrumental interference is to be suspected. The signs of abortion in the living will de- pend upon the period of gestation reached, and also the time which has elapsed since the occur- rence, and hence an early examination should always be made in such cases. In a few days after abortion at an early stage, all traces of discharge from the womb, patulous condition of the OS, etc., may have disappeared, or at any rate may render a definite opinion impossible. In abortion at early stages all matters which have come away from the uterus should, if possible, be carefully examined, clots of blood, etc., being placed in a basin of water and searched for traces of an ovum. Abortion cannot be definitely affirmed unless distinct traces of an ovum are found. The signs of abortion in the dead will, as a rule, even at early stages, be definite in character; but we must be careful not to confound the appear-FORENSIC 267 MEDICINE, ances presented by the genital organs and uterus, resulting from the natural expulsion of a foetus, especially in the later months, for evidence of criminal violence. Injuries caiised by abortionists are generally situated near the cervix or in the uterine cavity, and consist of punctures or longitudinal lacerations, the ap- pearance of which is highly suggestive, and differ from the tears in the cervix or superficial abrasion and lacerations of the vaginal wall, which frequently i-esult during ordinary de- livery. Spontaneous ruptures of the uterus are usually situated in the lower segment and run transversely, whereas ruptures due to direct violence are generally longitudinal. Infanticide.—The term infanticide is used to denote the murder of an infant. The crime is usually perpetrated at, or shortly after, birth. In order to constitute the crime it is necessary that the child shall have been born alive—that is to say, not merely that it shall have breathed, and therefore lived, but that it lived and enjoyed a separate existence, apart from the mother. An infant may give evidence of life, i.e. breathe, while in the maternal passages, but such an infant is not " born alive " in the legal sense, and killing it is not murder, provided it succumbs before it is fully born. To prove a charge of infanticide it is essential, therefore, not only that there shall be evidence that a child has lived, but also that it was "born alive." The chances of an infant coming into the world " still born," or of succumbing im- mediately after birth from a variety of natural causes, are so great, and therefore of an inno- cent woman being accused of infanticide, that the Crown in all charges of infanticide assumes that the child is dead born in every case until the contrary is proved, and undertakes the onus of proving that it enjoyed a separate existence. The post-mortem examination of the body of an infant is required to determine—(1) Its maturity; (2) Has it breathed, and therefore lived'? (3) Was it born alive? (4) What was the cause of death'? (5) How long has it been dead 1 Owing to the difficulties often experienced in giving a definite answer to these questions, and also, no doubt, owing to the fact that infanti- cide frequently occurs under circumstances, as regards the mother, which render conviction on a minor charge adequate vindication of the ends of justice, the indictment generally in- cludes an alternative charge of concealment of birth in England, or concealment of iwegnancy in Scotland, for which the punishment is im- prisonment for a term not exceeding two years. The crime of concealment of birth consists in the secret disposition of the body of a child, whether it died before or after birth, and concealment of its birth. Concealment of pregnancy consists in conceal- ment by a woman of the fact of her having been pregnant in the event of the child dying or dis- appearing. It is not necessary that the body be found, or that there be proof of its death ; on the other hand, it is sufficient for the woman to indicate the fact of her pregnancy to any person, directly or even indirectly, in order to relieve her from the charge. In the case of any woman accused of infanti- cide, it will be necessary to prove that she has been recently delivered of a child at a time corresponding to that which has presumably elapsed since the birth of the infant. In the post-mortem examination of the body of an infant, after noting the length and weight, state of the umbilical cord, presence of a caput succedaneum, marks of injury, and other ex- ternal appearances, we must proceed to deter- mine its maturity, because the more immature an infant is the less chance there will have been, coeteris paribus, of its having survived its birth ; or, if born alive, the greater is the probability of its having succumbed subsequently from natural causes. As a rule, charges of infanticide arise in connection with infants born after the seventh month, and the majority are mature, full-time children. The following data will assist the examiner:— At ^th Month.—Length, 12-15 inches ; weight, 2-4 lbs.; hair appearing on scalp; pupillary membrane disappearing; finger-nails do not reach to end of fingers; testicles at abdominal ring; vernix caseosa and lanugo present on the skin. %th Month.—Length, 15-17 inches ; weight, 4-5 lbs.; pupillary membrane absent; nails reach to end of fingers; testicles in inguinal canal or upper part of the scrotum ; valvulse conniventes in small intestine. ^thMonth—Signs of Mat%Lrity.—Length, 18-21 inches; weight, 5-8 lbs.; hair thick on scalp and about an inch long; nails project beyond tips of fingers; testicles in scrotum. In the lower end of the femur there is a well-marked node of ossification, about \ of an inch in diameter. The existence or absence of this node of ossification must always be determined, and the procedure, after reflecting the soft parts sur- rounding the lower end of the femur, is to carefully shave off transverse slices of the cartilaginous epiphysis, until a red spot of gritty consistence makes its appearance in the centre. This is the ossific node, and its greatest diameter should be exposed. Having completed the external examination of the body, the next step is to determine the question. Has the child breathed.? and evidence of respiration is to be sought for, firstly, in the lungs ("hydrostatic test"), and, secondly, in the stomach ("the stomach air test"). On removal of the sternum, the picture which is presented will in itself be strongly suggestive either of respiration having occurred, or theFORENSIC 268 MEDICINE, opposite. If the child has not breathed, the most prominent organs in view are the thymus gland and the pericardial sac containing the heart, while on either side two small dark organs may be seen, lying far back in the pleural cavities, viz., the lungs. These are of a uniform dark reddish-purple colour, small in size, of firm consistence, and non-crepitant. Should the child have respired—and even one or two vigorous respirations are sufficient—a totally different picture is presented. The heart and thymus gland are now overlapped to some extent by the lungs, which fill the pleural cavities on either side, and the appearance of the lungs themselves is so totally different that from their altered appearance alone we may have little hesitation in deciding that a child has breathed. The lungs are distended, in- creased in size ; the borders are rounded ; their colour is lighter, and not uniform, due to ex- pansion of the air-vesicles and the presence of blood in the capillaries. Adjacent groups of vesicles being unequally expanded, give rise to light and darker patches; while the inter- lobular septa are now distinct, so that a lung which has respired is said to present a " marbled " appearance on the surface. Portions of a lung may remain undistended or atelectic, and these are easily recognised by their foetal appearance. On pressure the expanded lung is elastic and crepitant, and on section emits a frothy fluid from the bronchi. Apart from the appearance of the lungs, confirmation of respiration is obtained by means of the hydrostatic test. Remove all the organs of the thorax en ?nasse, place them in a vessel of water, and see whether the lungs are buoyant enough to support the dead weight of the heart and thymus gland. Then detach one lung, and repeat the experi- ment. Finally, try the buoyancy of each lung separately, and then proceed, keeping notes of the results, consecutively to cut each lobe of each lung into at least twelve pieces, and test their buoyancy. Afterwards subject the pieces to pressure by placing them separately in a towel, and twisting this forcibly, and then again test the buoyancy of each piece. If the lungs give a positive result under all these conditions, then there is not any doubt that the child has fully and freely respired and has been born alive. If portions only of the lungs float, then we conclude that respiration has been partial, but we are not entitled to assume that the child was necessarily born alive without other evidence of the fact. If both lungs and every portion of them sink, then we conclude that the child has not breathed, and has been, in all probability, born dead. There are only two objections of practical importance which may detract from the validity of this test:—First, decomposition may cause lungs which have not respired to float in water from the development of gases of putrefaction. The answer to this is, that putrefaction attacks the lungs late and after it is present in other parts, e.ff. the abdomen, hence in any doubtful case there would be other evidence of putrefaction on the body. Under such circumstances we should not rely upon the hydrostatic test to prove the fact of the child having lived. Further, the gases of putrefaction, if they exist, are easily expelled by pressure, and hence lungs rendered buoyant from such a cause would not give a positive result in the final stage of the hydrostatic test. Second, lungs may sink in the case of a child which has breathed owing either to the presence of disease, such as pneumonia, pleurisy, pulmonary apoplexy, tumours, or from atelectasis. In the first-named case, i.e. the presence of disease, a charge of infanticide is not likely to be proceeded with. With reference to atelectasis, it is undoubted that a child may respire, nay, even continue to live for some hours, and yet after death the lungs be found perfectly foetal in appearance. In such cases respiration is always feeble, apparently taking place through the bronchial mucous membrane, and evidence of the child having been born alive miist be derived from other facts and circumstances. The presence of fine frothy mucus in the trachea and bronchi of a fresh body is very strong presumptive evidence of respiration in such cases. The Stomach Test. — A child in its first attempts at respiration almost always swallows some air, and hence the stomach and upper part of the intestine, if carefully ligatured and re- moved, will be fovmd to float in water. The objection that putrefaction will cause this result is of more weight than the same argument applied to the hydrostatic test; but in the absence of evident signs of putrefaction, and as auxiliary evidence to that derived from the lungs, the test is of considerable value. The further examination of the body of a child is carried out in the ordinary way—all cavities and organs being examined—with a view of determining the remaining questions mentioned above. Was the Child born alive, and how long did it live —There will be no difficulty in determining that a child has enjoyed a separate existence, and has lived for some time after birth, when we find evidence, either of the umbilical cord being in process of separation, i.e. signs of a vital reaction, or the presence of food in the stomach and intestines. The great difficulty will arise when death has occurred very shortly after birth. In this case the data on which an affirmative answer will rest are, in addition to signs of full respiration (any respiration occurring during the passage of the child from the uterus, i.e. in utero, in theMEDICINE, FORENSIC 269 vagina, or when the head alone is born, can only be imperfect and cause partial distention of the lungs), the presence of injuries which could only be caused to a living child after complete birth—evidence of food having been administered —or considerable haemorrhage from a divided and unligatured umbilical cord. In cases of infanticide at birth the umbilical cord is usually torn, not cut, and this fact is recognised by examining the free end, when it will be found, as a rule, to have ragged, irregular edges, tapering on one side to a point, whereas the cord which has been divided by a sharp instrument presents a transverse wound in which all constituent parts of the cord have been cut at the same level. If this point cannot be easily determined owing to desiccation of the cord, the end should be softened in water. The Cause of Death.—There are many natural and accidental causes of death which may occur to an infant during birth or shortly afterwards, and the claims of these (especially in the absence of any signs of violence) must be carefully weighed, more particularly when any signs of immaturity, congenital debility, or a prolonged and difficult labour are present. It is unnecessary to specify more particularly what such causes of death may be, except to draw attention to the importance of a careful examina- tion of the air-passages, since a small quantity of mucus or some inspired matter will frequently provide an explanation of the death. The death of a child may be due to " omission " or culpable neglect of the ordinary attentions required by a child at birth. The criminality involved will depend upon the circumstances in each individual case, but frequently the defence urged in such cases is, that the birth took place unexpectedly, without any previous warning in the form of labour pains, or that any such in- dications were attributed to a call to stool, and that the mother fainted after delivery. This is quite possible, even in primiparee, but in such cases we must expect to find corroboration of the story in the absence of any signs on the child of a prolonged or difficult labour. Cases of true precipitate birth must be re- garded as extremely rare in primiparse. In multiparse, where the child is small and the maternal passages are large and expansive, the occurrence of precipitate birth is neither improbable nor uncommon, but in such cases we frequently find laceration of the perineum, and that the placenta is either born along with the child, or that the cord has been torn. The presentation is always the head, and it may present injuries—abrasions, contusions, or frac- ture as a result of coming in violent contact with the ground. Violent Causes of Death.—These may be any of the violent causes of death which occur in the case of adults, and must be investigated and considered in the same manner and with the same objects in view, e.g. determination of how they were produced, whether ante- or post-mor- tem, cause of death, etc. Suffocation, strangu- lation, drowning, wounds and injuries to the head are the methods most frequently employed. With reference to fractures, the possibility of their having been caused during birth must be considered. Fracture of the skull, more espe- cially of one or other parietal bone, may occur during birth, but naturally will be associated with other signs of a difficult labour. The fractures may, however, be so extensive as to preclude this mode of causation being enter- tained. On the other hand, defects and fissures of the skull, due to imperfect ossification, must not be mistaken for the effect of violence. Injuries, such as ruptures of the liver, fractures of bones, etc., may be caused in utero as a result of violence inflicted on the mother. Hoiv long has a Child been dead—This ques- tion must be decided on the general evidence of the post-mortem changes and progress of putrefaction. The Examination of Blood-Stains.—The identi- fication of blood-stains is not a matter of diffi- culty when the stains are recent and abundant. When, however, they are old or minute, and more especially when they are complicated by the presence of rust or have been exposed to heat or the action of chemicals, their detection is not so easy. For a full description of the physical and other properties of blood the special article upon this subject must be consulted (see "Blood," vol. i. p. 408). If a stain is fresh and on a textile fabric, then a small portion should be placed on a microscope slide in a drop or two of a solution of glycerine and water (1 in 10) or ^ per cent salt solution and allowed to soak for a time, after which the fluid is examined for blood corpuscles. The finding of blood cor- puscles proves in the most absolute manner the presence of blood. If the stain is not recent, greater difficulty will be experienced, and the portion of stained fabric must be allowed to soak for a much longer period in one of the above solutions, or in stains of considerable age, in a solution of caustic potash (30 per cent) or glycerine and strong sulphuric acid (3 to 1). These fluids tend to soften the dried masses of corpuscles and to detach them, without causing any alteration in their form. Failing confirmation of the presence of blood by this test, or in conjunction with it, a portion of the stained fabric may be soaked in a small quantity of cold distilled water, when, if the stain is comparatively recent, i.e. the hsemoglobin has not become transformed into insoluble hsematin, the blood-colouring matter will dissolve out and give a reddish solution. To this red solution the following two tests may be applied :— 1. Application of Heat. — It loses its red270 MEDICINE, FORENSIC colour, and a bufF-coloured precipitate falls down. 2. Spectroscopic.—Examine the solution by means of a spectroscope—the two bands of oxyhsemoglobin will be seen; add to the same solution a little ammonium sulphide and the oxyhsemoglobin is reduced, one broad band now being seen in place of two. Finally add to another portion of the solution some caustic potash, then ammonium sulphide, and we shall get the characteristic spectrum of reduced hcematin, viz., two bands, one being well defined and practically midway between the lines of D and E, the second not so well defined but broader, situated further towards the violet end of the spectrum. The spectroscopic test con- sists in obtaining not one or other of these spectra, but all three in every case. The hcemin crystal test is applicable to all blood-stains, but will be found more especially suitable when small particles of dried clot have to be examined. The particle to be examined is placed on a microscope slide and a cover-glass placed over it, one side being upheld by a small splinter of wood. Glacial acetic acid is added in abundance and brought to ebullition over a spirit lamp, and then evaporated slowly away. Add a little distilled water, withdraw the splinter of wood, and examine under the ordinary high power of a microscope. Small brown rhomboid crystals will be seen, more especially around the edge of the clot if it has not completely broken down. Ouaiacum Test. — The addition of a little freshly prepared alcoholic guaiacum solution to a stain and then a drop or two of ozonic ether or peroxide of hydrogen produces a blue colour with blood—but also with other substances. Hence it is merely a good preliminary test, and the presence of blood must be otherwise con- firmed. On dark backgrounds the blue colora- tion may be made visible by impressing on the stain thus treated a piece of white blotting- paper or filter-paper. Fresh blood-stains are more or less red in colour, depending upon their thickness and the light in which they are observed. In older stains the haemoglobin becomes transformed into methsemoglobin, and finally hsematin, and at the same time they lose their red colour and become brown. For the same reason a stain in time also becomes more and more insoluble in water. Exposure to heat, chemicals, acids and alkalies, produces the same alteration of the haemoglobin, and thus stains on articles which have been exposed to the weather, or which have been washed in hot water, or with soap, are rendered more permanent and insoluble. Red stains caused by vegetable dyes are easily distinguished from blood-stains; on the one hand, either by applying heat to the red solution obtained after treatment with water, when the characteristic reaction of a blood solu- tion is not afforded, or by adding ammonia, which causes most vegetable dyes to become greenish in colour—blood solutions remaining red. Rust stains are insoluble, and yield none of the reactions of blood. Paint stains are recognised by the ordinary chemical tests for metals. It is impossible to give a definite opinion that certain stains are due to human blood—all we can say is that the blood is mammalian. In regard to the question of the origin of certain stains, e.g. from menstrual blood, any opinion given must be very guarded. In all medico-legal inquiries in regard to blood-stains upon clothing, the possibility of their having arisen from natural causes, siich as previous slight injuries—bleeding from the nose, menstruation, etc.—must be kept in view. In the lowest classes of society the body clothes of the majority of persons will generally show traces of blood-stains of more or less recent origin. Medicine, History of. Introductory ..... 270 Influence op Greece . . . .271 Arabian Medicine .... 273 15th and 16th Centuries . . . 275 17th and 18th Centuries . . . 276 The 19th Century .... 280 In the earliest ages of the human race men could not fail from time to time to discover by accidents —such as that of Elisha's pupils, who gathered colocynths in mistake for gourds—that many fruits and herbs possessed poisonous properties, or to learn the use of those that acted as purgatives, anodynes, narcotics, and perhaps beneficially in less obvious ways. The employ- ment of the same word, cf)a.p/j.aKov, for poisons and medicines alike evinces a rational conception of the action of drugs among the Greeks ; but it is in Egypt that we see the earliest develop- ment of medicine as a profession and an art. There, though not restricted to the priestly caste, it was considered highly honourable. The physicians studied in schools, and were paid by the State, though not debarred from taking fees from the rich. They were permitted to exercise their discretion in departing from the rules of treatment laid down in the books if the patient did not improve by the third day, but did so at their own risk; for should he die, they were liable to an action for malpraxis, which, if established, was a capital off"ence, though the law did not apply to fatal operations in surgery. Specialism was carried to the extreme, for not merely as oculists, aurists, dermatologists, and surgeons, but in every department of medical practice each physician devoted his attention exclusively to diseases of a single organ. A people who practised embalming could have noMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 271 repugnance to dissecting the human body, and we find that not only were necropsies performed for verifying the cause of death, but at a later period practical anatomy was taught in the medical schools. Homer, Jeremiah, and Pliny refer to the wealth of the Egyptian materia medica; and we learn from Herodotus, Pliny, and Ammianus that Egyptian physicians were held in high repute in the East and West, and students resorted to Alexandria from Greece and Rome. Magic and charms seem to have had little, if any, place in their practice, for votive offerings were rather expressions of the need for the divine blessing on the means employed. Midwifery was practised chiefly, but not ex- clusively, by women, while to the great import- ance attached to personal and public hygiene we may ascribe the excellent sanitary regulations enjoined in the Mosaic code. In the Hebrew scriptures we read much of diseases, but the allusions to physicians are few, and of surgical operations, except the rite of circumcision, there is no mention. Wounds were "bound up" and dressed with "balm of Gilead," an antiseptic oleoresin like our Friars' balsam. Medicine seems to have been practised chiefly by the Levites as the most learned and leisured class, but it did not partake of a religious character and was wholly free from any taint of magic, for the reference of cases of suspected leprosy to the priest seems to have been for the purpose of diagnosis from other cutaneous diseases, and the exhibition of the brazen serpent was purely symbolical and exceptional; while by a people imbued with the theocratic idea and a conscious dependence on a higher power, whose unseen hand was most nearly felt in the havoc created by epidemic diseases that could not be otherwise explained, the "pestilence that walketh in darkness " was ascribed to the sword of the " destroying angel." The physicians to whom King Asa " sought instead of to the Lord " were, doubtless, aliens practising magical rites. The apocryphal Book of Ecclesiasticus, of post- Babylonian date, devotes chapter xxxviii. 1-15, to the praise of the physician and the sacredness of his work. We see in the New Testament the influence of the Babylonish demonology on the Jewish mind in the centuries subsequent to the captivity in the reference, not only of epilepsy and other nervous and mental diseases, but even of de- formities to Satanic agency and the possession of the person by demons. We note the inability of physicians to relieve a case of persistent metrorrhagia; and we read of one " beloved physician," St. Luke, the companion of St. Paul, who was, like the great apostle, a man of literary and general culture, superior to that of the other founders of the Church except perhaps the eloquent preacher ApoUos of Alexandria. It would be useless, were it possible, to discuss in this place the medicine of India and China, which has no direct interest to us. Influence of Greece.—Greece was the birth- place of medicine as we know it in Europe, and for many centuries the teacher of the western world. In the Homeric poems, a narrative mostly of wars, the treatment of wounds is naturally the more conspicuous ; but if we may credit Archinus, a later writer, while Machaon, one of the sons of Asclepius, himself the son of a Thessalian king, concerned himself with surgery, his brother Podalirius gave his attention to "the cure of ills that were invisible to the eye and the relief of incurable disease"—in other words, to medicine. Though for a long time the chief practitioners of medicine were, or claimed to be, the descendants of Asclepius, and his temples were frequented by chronic sufferers, the priests were not physicians, and there is no trace whatever of the association of medicine with religion. But of the nature of their practice and the principles or notions on which it was based, we are wholly ignorant. For us the his- tory of medicine as a science and a profession begins with the age of Pericles, 450-440 years before the Christian era. Hippocrates, justly recognised as the father of medicine, was as truly a representative of Greek intellect as any of his contemporaries, the great historians, philosophers, dramatists, artists, and soldiers of the golden age of Greece. He was a voluminous writer ; but of his reputed works some appear to be those of his pupils at the school of Cos, and a few to have emanated from that of Cnidus, which differed from his teaching in some respects. The distinctive characters of his writings were those of the man himself, a high and noble ideal of the mission of the physician, free from the least trace of mysticism, super- stition, or mercenary motives, as exhibited in the famous "Oath of Hippocrates," which he administered to each of his disciples on leaving the school; his belief in the vis rnedicatrix naturce, and that the phenomena of disease, equally with those of life, were subject to natural laws which could be known by obser- vation, to which, with the careful record and interpretation of symptoms—in fact, what we now know as clinical study—he attached the utmost importance, bequeathing to posterity a mass of "histories,"both of individual cases and of epidemics of disease. He held that the duty of the physician was to avoid all that might hinder, and to assist in every way in his power the efforts of nature towards recovery, and, influenced by the Pythagorean doctrine of numbers, he laid undue stress on that of supposed "critical days." While, however, anatomy and physiology were as yet unknown, no rational pathology was possible, and his speculations as to the causes of disease took the form of what was subsequently described as the humoural pathology, and maintained its hold272 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF on the minds of men until late in the eighteenth century. According to his school the body contained four humours—blood, phlegm, yellow bile, and black bile—the due admixture of which constituted health, and excess or defect of either set up disease. He paid great attention to personal hygiene, exercise, and diet for the prevention and cure of disease, but did not despise drugs, of which 265 are enumerated in the writings of his school; and blood-letting- was sometimes, though rarely, practised by the Hippocratic physicians, especially those of Cnidus, who made more use also of drugs. Thus in his search for new remedies Theo- phrastus laid the foundations of the science of botany, as Aristotle did of natural history in general. For several generations after the death of Hippocrates, the history of medicine is for Greece itself a blank; but the conquests of Alexander carried Greek learning and science over Asia and Africa. Medical schools were opened in various cities, including Alexandria, which long continued to be the most famous university in the world. Here, under Erasis- tratus and Herophilus, anatomy was first taught systematically by dissection of the human body, a practice which seems to have found favour nowhere else. Herophilus and his school abode strictly by the teaching of Hippocrates, and attached excessive value to literary culture; while Erasistratus endeavoured to explain the phenomena and causes of diseases, especially inflammations, on mechanical hypotheses. Anatomy, however, without physiology—that is, an acquaintance with the form and position of organs without a knowledge of their functions —is of little use; and the physicians of the following century neglected the study altogether, relying wholly on the observation of symptoms, and, so far as they were able to judge, on the action of drugs, diet, baths, and exercises, thus assuming or receiving the name of Empirics or practical men. The best known of this school were Philinus, Serapion, and Glaucias of Tarentum, who assiduously followed the clinical methods of Hippocrates, which they described as the tripos of observation, histories, and judgment by analogy, or, as we should say, observation, case-taking, and collective inves- tigation. Egyptian and Greek medicine had been alike of native growth, and the school of Alexandria represented the union of the two— the Empirics excelling in surgery and obstetrics, branches in which manual skill and practice count for more than science and theory. But in Rome it was wholly exotic, and the physicians and surgeons to the first century after the Christian era were exclusively Greeks. The earliest whose name has come down to us is Archagathus; but the most eminent was Asclepiades, the friend of Cicero, who, with his pupil Themison, founded the school of Methodists. They, like the Empirics, ignored anatomy, but they rejected the teachings of Hippocrates—directing their attention to the general condition rather than to the local phenomena, and referring all diseases to con- strictions or relaxations of the "pores" or in- terstices between the "atoms," of which the tissues were supposed to be built up, " pores " through which the fluids were believed to move; they consequently made much use of baths, and of exercises probably akin to massage. Unfortunately, pseudo-scientific speculations were more attractive to those with literary in- clinations than was the description of surgical operations; but the remarkable collections of instruments made of late years at Pompeii, at Baden near Ziirich, and elsewhere, aff'ord incon- testable evidence of the high development of surgical art, and incidentally of the routine employment of the actual cautery for arresting hsemorrhage. The greatest of the Methodists was probably Soranus of Ephesus, who practised at Rome in the reigns of Trajan and Hadrian. A treatise, in Greek, on the Diseases of Women, the only work of the kind that has been preserved, is certainly his, and displays considerable practical acquaintance with the subject, and with the use of the speculum, an instrument commonly supposed to be a modern invention, though among those discovered in Pompeii. His other writings are lost; but the Latin works of Cselius Aurelianus, who lived three centuries later, are believed to have been little more than translations of those of Soranus. There were two minor schools, the Pneu- matics, who referred all vital and morbid phenomena to the operation of the "Pneuma," or nervous influence, and the Eclectics, who combined all they thought good in others. Cornelius Celsus, a Roman patrician of the first and second centuries, studied but did not practise medicine as a profession. His great work, De Medicind, is of the highest value as a history of medicine from the time of Hip- pocrates to his own days. It was written for the laity only, and is never quoted by medical authors; but though such a work must of necessity be largely a compilation, it is marked by wide erudition, a sound critical judgment, and a purity and elegance of style and diction that have made it the most generally read and popular of medical classics since its discovery in the fifteenth century. As Hippocrates, in the fifth century before Christ, was the founder of medicine, so Galen, a.d. 130-200, may be said to have reconstructed it, and his influence, though of slow growth, was supreme through- out the Middle Ages, yielding at last only to the rise of modern science in the eighteenth century. A man of good social position and a great traveller, a scholar, philosopher, and master of all the scientific knowledge of the day, he found the profession everywhere splitMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 273 up into numerous petty sects, morally degraded and despised. Endowed with indomitable industry, he set himself to the work of reform- ing abuses and of restoring medicine to the position in which it had been left by Hippo- crates. He was an extraordinarily prolific writer and an enthusiastic anatomist, though compelled by the popular prejudice against such profanation of "the human form divine" to content himself with the dissection and—in his eager search after "the causes of things," i.e. physiology or the science of life—the vivisection of the lower animals, as sheep and swine. His fatal errors were an impatience of the delay, doubt, and suspension of judgment, inseparable from inductive methods of research, and a craving after a finality and completeness unattainable under the conditions and limita- tions of human knowledge, with a facility for the construction of systems and invention of hypotheses, not as means toward an end, but as satisfactory explanations of every pheno- menon, though in themselves pure assumptions. It was to this character rather than to their real merits that his writings owed their great popularity for nearly a thovisand years, espe- cially in the later Middle Ages, when the habit of observation was lost and when, alike in science and religion, authority ruled supreme, though the teachers and leaders of thought allowed their imaginations to run riot, spinning ingenious but baseless theories to which facts were made to conform, or which, if that were impossible, could easily be altei-ed to fit the facts. Substituting for the humours of Hip- pocrates four elements or conditions, the hot, cold, wet, and dry — the due admixture of which constituted health, and to the disturbance of which equilibrium as well as to a faulty composition of the blood, as by the presence in it of bile or phlegm, he ascribed diseases or rather the causes or conditions of disease,—he sought to discover corresponding properties in drugs, and to treat disease by supplying in food or medicines those that he supposed were at the time deficient in the body. It is hard to believe that so acute a thinker could have failed to see that heat and cold are but degrees of temperature and moist and dry but relative expressions, as long and short, or that the second in each pair is but the negation of the former. Doubtless, he meant to indicate excess and defect in relation to the normal temperature of the body and moisture of the tissues; but the words must have borne a different significa- tion when applied to the properties of drugs, the infusions, tinctures, and extracts still called Galenical preparations; he probably ascribed "moisture" to diaphoretics, and dryness to astringents, cold to antipyretics, and so on. Be this at it may, his preconceived notions and self-sufficient dogmatism led him to neglect the practice of conscientious observation inculcated VOL. VI by the father of Greek medicine. His ana- tomical studies, however, enabled him to give a precision to surgical ojierations far exceeding that attained by his predecessors. At Rome the Methodistic school held its ground and produced the only Latin medical author of note since Celsus, viz., Cselius Aurelianus, already mentioned as the translator or exponent of the Greek Soranus, and a few in succeeding centuries who produced short translations, compilations, and herbals—one of which, jDublislied under the name or pseudonym of Apuleius Platonicus, deserves notice, as having in the ninth century been translated into Anglo-Saxon, and remained a standard authority on medical botany till the fifteenth or sixteenth century. Byzantine medicine was, until the introduction of the Arabian, essentially Galenic, and the literature consisted of little else than compilations from the works of Galen and his commutators, with excerpts from Hippocrates, Dioscorides, and others. Oribasius (a.d. 326-403), physician to Julian the Apostate, is the first whose writings have come down to us. Aetius and Alexander of Tralles, in the sixth century, were more eclectic. But the most famous and, in some respects, original writer of this school was Paul of yEgina, who, living in the seventh century, was equally eminent as a surgeon and an obstetrician. His work on obstetrics is lost, but that on surgery, which gives a good idea of the progress of the art at that period, was the basis of all surgical literature and practice, European and Arabian, until the sixteenth century; succeeding writers, though numerous down to the time of Palseologi and the fall of Constantinople, presenting no- thing of sufficient originality or permanent in- fluence to be worth mention. Meanwhile, in the West the disintegration of the Roman Empire and civilisation was proceeding apace. The Arabs who, in the seventh century, inspired by the faith and aspirations of Islam, pushed their conquests westwards along the African shores, did not effect a landing in Spain until a.d. 710 ; nor was it until the following century that their rule and social order were so far consoli- dated as to permit of the cultivation of the arts and sciences, which required as a necessary antecedent condition the conversion of pastoral and predatory nomads into a settled commercial and industrial community. It was, therefore, not until the eighth and ninth centuries that Greek medicine received a renewed vitality and acquired a wider influence by translation into the thoughts and language of the Eastern, and retranslation into those of the Western world. But already, in a.d. 410, Rome had been captured by the Goths, and during the re- mainder of that and the following century, the whole of Italy was repeatedly overrun and ravaged by hordes of northern barbarians who, long aware of their physical, had recently274 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF awoke to a sense of their latent mental superi- ority to the degenerate and enervated peoples of the south; and gave full play to their energies in pulling down and building up principalities, in which, though they might adopt the names and forms of Roman political and military institutions, and even some sem- blance of Christianity, there was no room for learning and culture, of which the little that survived the general wreck found perforce a refuge in the monasteries ; and the practice of medicine, such as it was, was undertaken by the monks, who both preserved for us all we have of the earlier literature and popularised it by the output of Latin translations, compila- tions, and compendiums—of, however, very little worth. Out of these monastic establish- ments grew the schools of Salerno, which may justly be looked on as the mother of univer- sities, though those of Bologna and Paris were the first to assume the name. The schools of Salerno were far from being dominated by the Church, as Oxford and Cambridge were until the middle of the nineteenth century. Many of the professors were, as we know, laymen and married; while, at least in the schools of law and medicine, a Jewish element was conspicuous among both teachers and students, and some of the professors were women. The medical school greatly outnumbered those of the other faculties, and maintaining its European reputation from the eighth to the twelfth or thirteenth century, continued to exist until the university was suppressed by Napoleon in 1811. Among the works issuing from Salerno in the period preceding the rise of Arabic medicine were the anonymous rhymed poem. Regimen Sanitati& Salerni, ostensibly written for " the English king," and of a popular character; the Anatome Porci of Copho ; and the Practica of Joannes Platearius ; while contemporary with, though scarcely in- fluenced by, the rival system, were the Antido- tarium of Nicolaus Prgepositus, and the works on the urine and the pulse by (Egidius Cor- boliensis (Gilles de Corbeil), in the form of hexameter poems ! At Damascus and Baghdad, Greek medicine was cultivated as early as the eighth century under Jewish and Christian teachers ; and in the ninth, Arabian physicians began to make translations of or compilations from the works of Hippocrates, Galen, Dioscorides, and the later Greek writers, as Paulus ^gineta. But the first of the classic Arabian authors was Abd Bakr Mohammed ibn Zakarfyd el-Razi, better known as Rhazes of Baghdad, a voluminous writer, many of whose works were translated into Greek and Latin, and to whom we owe the earliest descriptions of measles and smallpox, the latter of which, according to a tradition reported by the Arabian historian Tabari, ap- peared first at the siege of Mecca, a.d. 570, among the troops of the Abyssinian contingent, having been brought by them from Africa. The golden age of Arabian medicine, both in the East and in Spain, lasted from the tenth to the twelfth century. Wiistenfeld and Hteser have collected the names of between three and four hundred writers, the works of three only of whom have been printed in Arabic, others in Greek or Latin translations, but the vast majority existing still in MSS. only. Those that were translated and studied in Europe, and who only, therefore, are known to us, are, after Rhazes, Haly (All ibn el-'Abbds), a Persian, Abulcasis (Abu'l Kdsim) of Cordova, Avicenna (Ibn Sina), Avenzoar or Abumeron (Abii Merwdn 'Abd el-Malik ibn Zohr), and Averroes (Abii Rosch) of Cordova and Morocco, and Maimonides (Ben Maimon), a Jewish rabbi whose works are for the most part extant in the original Arabic or Hebrew—the last two having been contemporaries, and dying in 1199 and 1204 respectively. Though derived from a common origin, and to the last acknowledging the authority of Galen, the Syrian and Spanish schools tended in time to divergence, if not avowed antagonism—the latter having become imbued with Western philosophy, Maimonides being indeed better known as a rationalist philosopher than as a physician. The Eastern Arabs, on the other hand, borrowed much from India; they enlarged the realm of materia medica and were the apothecaries of the Middle Ages. Many of the terms still used in chemistry and pharmacy are purely Arabic, and the work De Simplicibus, ascribed to a Messua, the younger, of Damascus, was in such repute that it was used by our Royal College of Physicians in the preparation of the first London Pharmacopoeia in 1618. One factor that, above all others, made for the predominance of Arabian medicine, or rather Greek medicine in its Arabian dress, was that, alike among Arabs, Jews, and Christians, the Aristotelian dialectic dominated every department of learning and infected all human thought. The Oriental mind was at- tracted by its ingenuities; and scholasticism, which reigned supreme until the revival of learning, was essentially Aristotelian. It per- meated the philosophy and theology of the age ; but the consequences were, from the nature of the subject, far more practically injurious in the case of medicine, which to be of any use must be based on a foundation of inductive reasoning. The supremacy that Arabian medicine so rapidly acquired was effected by the translations of all the more famous works into Latin, mainly by learned Jews from the Moorish schools of Spain working under the patronage of bishops and heads of monastic houses, and receiving great encouragement from the Emperors Frederic Barbarossa and Frederic II., who brought itsMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 275 influence to be felt even in Salerno, the Civitas Hippocratica. Among the compendia may be mentioned the Conciliator of Peter of Abano, the Aggregator of Jacob de Dondi, both of Padua, and the Pandectce Medicinoe of Matthreus Sylvaticus of Salerno; but of chiefest interest to us is the first appearance of English writers, two of whom studied and practised abroad, but one was an Englishman in every sense. These were Gordonio (Bernard Gordon), a Scotsman, professor at Montpellier, whose Lilium Medicina; contains the first full and graphic description of leprosy ; Gilbertus Anglicus, whose Compendium is but an echo of his teacher's Lilium; and John Gaddesden, a graduate of Merton College, Oxford, and physician to Edward III.—a wretched plagiarist, credulous and ignorant even beyond others in his day. Yet his Bosa Anglica was a popular text-book as late as the end of the sixteenth century. Gordon's Lilium was trans- lated into French and Hebrew, and several editions were printed in the fifteenth and six- teenth centuries. It was not without its merits; but admirable as is his description of leprosy, it is evident that he did not distinguish lupus from leprosy, and that much of his account of the causes, consequences, and mode of propaga- tion of "leprosy" must be understood to refer to syphilis, to which alone it is applicable. During this period, the thirteenth to the fifteenth century, more progress was made in surgery, especially in France and Italy—the chief writers on this subject having been Gul. de Saliceto of Piacenza, Lanfranchi of Milan, Guy de Chauliac in France, and John Ardern in England. Mondino de Liucci did good work in anatomy, and Arnold di Villanova in chemistry -—his Breviarium Practice being more than a compilation; while in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries numerous collections of in- telligible reports of cases were published under the name of Consilia, the first since the "histories " of the Hippocratic school; the best of these being those of Gentilis Fulgineus, Bartolomeo Montagnana, and Baverino de Baveriis. The revival of classical learning in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, with the recovery and discovery of the works of ancient Greek and Roman writers and their popularisa- tion by means of the new art of printing, produced a reaction against everything mediaeval which the " Humanists," as the students of classical literature were styled, denounced as barbarous. In medicine the revulsion from the Arabian school and its adaptations was strongest in Italy and in England, the universities of the latter country being greatly influenced by those of the former. But in France the older doctrines died hard, and in Germany the pro- fession was divided between the classical revival and new doctrines of Paracelsus. Rhazes, Avicenna, and the rest were banished from the schools, and learned men possessing a knowledge of Greek translated Hippocrates, Galen, Dioscorides, etc., into Latin, the Italians being the most active in this work. Two Englishmen, however, took their part—Thomas Linacre and John Kaye or Caius, respectively the founders of the College of Physicians and of Caius College, Cambridge. An amusing feature in this intellectual reaction or revolution was the struggle between the advocates of the Arabian practice of blood-letting from a vein remote from the diseased organ and the Galenic of local venesection, which i-ent the universities into contending parties, led to the expulsion of professors on either side, and necessitated in some cases the intervention of emperors and popes. Hitherto men's minds had been swayed by authority, everyone being Addictus jurare in verba viagistri, whether of Hippocrates, Galen, or Avicenna; each one was ever ready to expound and comment on him, but resented criticism as presumption and, never doubting the master's infallibility, looked on dissent as heresy. But just at the time that Martin Luther, himself a learned theologian and loyal son of the Church, raised the standard of revolt against the tyranny and corruption of the papacy, appealing to the learned in Latin, and to the common-sense of the people in their mother-tongue, the medical schools of Germany were rent into contending factions by the ap- pearance of a reformer equally intolerant of authority and reckless of public opinion, but, unlike Luther, vain beyond measure, arrogant, and boastful. Philip Theophrast von Hohen- heim, or as he called himself, Aureolus Theo- phrastus Paracelsus (1493-1541), versed in all the medical knowledge of the day, but with little, if any, acquaintance with the Greek language, while entertaining a certain respect for Hippocrates as a clinical observer, publicly denounced the whole mass of medical doctrine and practice from Galen to his own times as a system of imposture based on ignorance and delusions, if not on conscious fraud. But in- stead of off'ering another drawn from experience and observation—or, like Bacon, pointing out the right road in the search after truth—he, imbued with the neoplatonism and cabalism of Picus Mirandola and Reuchlin, evolved a scheme of the universe and of the nature of man so wild and fantastic that his laborious expositions are well-nigh unintelligible. Denying the pantheistic doctrine of a uni- versal soul equally with the orthodox Christian belief in a personal God, omnipresent in but distinct from His creation, he elaborated an all- pervading analogy between the natural and spiritual worlds, animating the heavenly bodies, the natural elements, and the several organs of the human form with souls—of the working of which all phenomena were the outward mani-MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 276 festations and the material merely the veil. There was a complete correspondence between the constituent parts of the universe and of the human body, or, as he called them, the macro- cosm and microcosm, the souls of the former and those which, imder the name of archei, presided over the function of each organ : while the causes of disease were purely spiritual, the material structure having no part in the disease or its cure. A knowledge of astronomy he held to be of far more practical value to the physician than an acquaintance with anatomy, wliich he discai'ded as useless ; but he paid much attention to chemistry, on account of the supposed sym- pathy between the souls of chemical elements and the archei of the organs of man, through which, and not by any gross material action on the tissues, drugs—whether vegetable or mineral —assisted the efforts of the archei in the cure of disease, though the result would be greatly facilitated by securing in some way the co- operation of the corresponding planets. Tlie three most important harmonies were those of salt, the body, and the earth; of mercury, the soul, and water; and of sulphur, spirit, and air. The properties of drugs resided in their "arcana" or immaterial essences, which were often indi- cated by their physical characters or external forms : leaves, roots, etc., bearing a resemblance to the organs, the diseases of which they could control. Many names of plants, both botanical and vernacular, as hepatica, liverwort, orchis, etc., are but echoes of this " doctrine of signatures" and not derived, like those of lungwort and scurvy grass, from real or im- aginary observation of their actions ; while those of mercury and the expressions jovial, saturnine, etc., refer to the supposed affinity between the planets, metals, and human life. All that medicine really owes to Paracelsus was the in- troduction into a pharmacopoeia, previously ex- clusively herbal, of a number of metals and salts —whence the followers of Paracelsus were often designated latro-chemici or the chemical physi- cians. This innovation was not eftected without much opposition, especially to the use of anti- mony, but it led to a reaction in which gold became a favourite remedy, and even the precious stones were credited with mystic virtues pro- portioned to their rarity and cost. Paracelsus cannot, however, be said in any sense to have founded a school, though his mystic philosophy was for some time promulgated by the sect or society of Rosicrucians. The only medical name calling for mention in this connection is that of van Helmont, who merely amplified the fancies of Paracelsus, and being, like Celsus, an amateur, had even less influence in his time, besides being an anachronism in the seventeenth century. From whatever standpoint we contemplate the progress of civilisation and the growth of the human mind, the sixteenth century marks an epoch second only to the Christian era in the far-reaching effects of the awakening that then took place. It inaugurated a period of political development, commercial and maritime enterprise, classical learning, and the creation of a modern literature in the living language of each nation. It was not, however, until the seventeenth century that the influence of the revival was felt in the fields of science and medicine, and even then the effects on practice were less than might have been expected. Philosophers continued to evolve metaphysical and ontological systems from their inner con- sciousness, but when men awoke to the convic- tion that such methods were utterly incompetent to discover the causes of things in the material world, the entire aspect of natural science was changed. In a couple of generations mediaeval darkness was dispelled and men passed from the night of fantastic speculations to the broad day- light of scientific research. The mathematicians, astronomers, and physicists prepared the ways and chemists and biologist^ followed, slowly at first, but later by rapid strides. Bacon, though not himself a student of natural science, and wholly imconcerned with medicine, did more than any one in bringing about this revolution by maintaining that no real progress could be made in the search after truth but by the in- ductive method, the careful observation and collection of facts unbiassed by tradition or authority, and by reasoning from these to general principles instead of, as hitherto, in- venting a system and forcing facts into harmony therewith. His work was at once destructive and constructive, for, making a tabula rasa of existing systems, he taught men how to proceed in the search after truth. Like all reformers, he indeed carried this doctrine somewhat too far, overstating the case for the a posteriori or inductive method and unduly depreciating the a j)riori or deductive. Imagination, not un- bridled as it had been, but exercised under due restraint, has its place in scientific research ; no great discovery has been made, no new field of science opened without the exercise of the imagination in the construction of working hypotheses, but these hypotheses must have been suggested as the obvious, or at least the highly probable explanations of observed pheno- mena, and must then be estimated at their proper value as means to an end, must be put to the test of rigid induction and modified or rejected according as they fail to stand the test. But the time had not come for such methods, which are dangerous in the hands of men un- trained to the habit of verifying every hypothesis by experiment regardless of preconceived notions and rejecting everything that failed to stand the test. Bacon's Novum Organum and In- stauratio Magna or The Advancement of Learn- ing completely transformed the aspect of natural science, and the value of the method of patient experiment received the strongest possible con-MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 277 firmation in the discovery or proof of the cir- culation of the blood by Harvey. Former anatomists had observed the action of the heart and the movement of the blood, but fancied that the heart distributed two kinds of blood to every part of the body ; they were, indeed, so blinded by dogma and tradition that they failed to see the most obvious facts for themselves, as when Fabricius, under whom Harvey had studied anatomy, described the valves in the veins without perceiving the incompatibility of their presence with an outward flow of the blood. Harvey himself, on the other hand, had recourse to direct and patient experimentation on living animals of every kind, and satisfied himself of the cii'culation of the blood; but without the aid of the microscope he could not demonstrate the way in which the blood passed from the arterial to the venous system. It was, however, long before the anatomical, physiological, and pathological discoveries, to which the experimental method led in course of time, had attained such certainty and complete- ness as to make them available in practical medicine; and the more judicious physicians of the day, rightly avoiding the fatal course of theorising as to the nature of the vital processes in health and disease, confined their practice, in the true Hippocratic spirit, to ob- servation and experience, aware of the danger of acting on such crude and imperfect knowledge of the laws of life as they then possessed. Two schools, however, the iatro-physical and iatro- chemical, did attempt premature efforts in these directions: the former, led by Borelli and in- cluding the eminent anatomists Baglivi and Steno, endeavoured to explain all vital processes and phenomena on physical, in fact mechanical, principles. They rightly recognised the three orders of levers in the osseous and muscular mechanism, and the less obvious influence of blood pressure or arterial tension on secretion, elimination, and the nutrition of the tissues; but they resolved digestion into a process of trituration like that in the gizzard of a bird. The iatro-chemical school founded by Francis de la Bois or Boe, commonly known by his Latinised name of Sylvius, professor at Leyden, though unable to entirely free themselves from tradition, took a much higher stand. Sylvius eagerly accepted Harvey's discovery of the circulation and studied its conditions. He fully availed himself of " chemical" remedies in addition to the Galenical and recognised the influence of variations in blood pressure, con- gestion, etc.; but he sought the immediate cause of most morbid phenomena in the re- action, excessive alkalinity or acidity of the fluids of the body, instead of the normal and abnormal " mixtures" of humoral hypothesis. He looked on digestion as a fermentation (which indeed it is), the agent being an enzyme— not microbial and irregular fermentations as producing changes in the chyme and blood, which he called " acridities." In nervous diseases he saw disturbances of the "vital spirits," a term which, though inherited from ancient and mediaeval medicine, represented what we know as nerve currents or force. These views found most favour in Holland and Germany, but were less well received in France and Italy, being opposed alike by the adherents of the old medi- cine and by the rival school of iatro-physicists. In England they found a strong exponent in Willis. He studied the reactions of the urine and was the first to detect the presence of sugar in diabetes, and also paid much attention to nervous diseases and the anatomy, especially as regards the blood supply, of the brain. But yielding to the speculative tendency of the Paracelsians, he regarded all bodies, inorganic and organic, as consisting of the three " ele- ments," spirit, sulphur, and salt, though unable to define the nature or properties of the first of these, the presence of which was a necessary condition of vital phenomena. " Fermentation," by which he explained all chemical processes in the living body, he ascribed to " intestine move- ments of particles," no doubt meaning thereby molecular changes. Though Bacon had given a new direction to scientific thought for all time, and Harvey had made the first great discovery in physiology, it cannot be said that any British physician before Sydenham (1624-1639) had produced a sensible impression on medical practice in general. Educated at Oxford and Montpellier, he has been well styled the English Hippocrates, and he acknowledged that he took the father of medicine as his exemplar. Like him he insisted on the paramount importance of studying the " natural history of disease " and " epidemic con- stitution," or the influence of climate, seasons, and weather. He was a firm believer in the vis medicatrix naturce, and went so far as to main- tain that what is called disease was often but the results of the efforts of nature to eliminate some poisonous matters from the system. He held that it was frequently possible to treat disease without a clear apprehension of its causes, and that in the imperfect state of our knowledge premature conclusions and unproved assumptions were worse than useless. Yet his appi'eciation of etiology proves that he was no mere empiric, though he never permitted his hypotheses to bias his judgment when a coin-se of treatment had been justified by experience of results. He also recognised the specific natui-e of certain diseases and the specific action of some drugs, as cinchona on agues. Sydenham's teaching, which may be described as a " rational empiricism," made a profound impression on the practice of medicine, not only in this country, but on the Continent. His influence was, however, exerted only through his published works, for the conditions of medicalMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 278 education in England, and its neglect at the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, did not aiford the opportunities enjoyed by distinguished professors in those of Italy, Germany, and France of founding schools among the students who gathered round them from every land. The English physicians of the eighteenth century, Radclifte, Meade, Frend, and others were scholars, and some of them accomplished mathematicians, who, dazzled by the brilliant discoveries of Newton, Halley, and Napier, and sensible of the scant assistance that chemistry and anatomy in their imperfect and unsatis- factory state could render towards the elucida- tion of the problems of physiology and disease, sought to explain them on mathematical principles, though the influence of Sydenham prevented their carrying their theories to the same length as was done by Pitcairn, a Scotsman by birth, but professor at Leyden. Hermann Boerhaave (1668-1733), who was for many years professor of medicine at Leyden, where his lectures were attended by students from all nations, including nearly every one of the leading English physicians of the time, was without exception the greatest teacher of clinical medicine the world had seen. No less practical and observant than Sydenham, he was, unlike him, deeply versed in all the science of his age, even cultivating the use of the microscope for the investigation of pathological processes. Though his tendency was towards the iatro- mechanical doctrines, he was thoroughly catholic and eclectic, and professed the utmost admira- tion of the methods of Hippoci-ates and Syden- ham. His Aphorisms were long held in de- servedly high esteem, and his influence on the practice of his age was immense. As a scientific physician he is best known by his theories of inflammation, obstruction, and especially of plethora, which, if too mechanical, were more rational than any that had preceded them. As a scholar he collated ancient and modern medicines from a historical standpoint in his great work, Institutioties Medicina;, which, how- ever, exerted less influence on practical medicine than the Aphorisms, in which he formulated the results of his long experience. His teaching and methods were introduced into the school at Vienna by Van Swieten, who had been one of his pupils at Leyden. But the inveterate tendency to the creation of systems and the attainment of a spurious completeness reasserted itself at the university founded by Frederick III. at Halle, where Frederick Hoffmann (1660-1742) and Geo. Ernest Stahl (1660-1734) were professors and colleagues. Their systems had little in common, and alike devoid of scientific merit, are of in- terest solely as representing the last flickering of medijEval mysticism. Hoffmann, seizing on Newton's hypothesis of an ether pervading all space, ascribed life to its inhalation and ac- cumulation in the brain, where it was trans- formed into the pneuma in man or into an inferior form of vital fluid in the lower animals. Health consisted in the maintenance of " tone " in the tissues, an excess of defect of which, spasm or atony, constituted disease. Hoffmann wished to reconcile materialism and spiritual- ism ; but Stahl, while explaining the phenomena of life in the lower animals on natural or mechanical principles, ascribed everything in man to the action of the "soul," even disease being the manifestation of its rational efforts to expel offending matters from the system. As Sydenham and Boerhaave were the apostles of a rational empiricism placing the treatment of disease on a safe, however unscientific, basis, so Haller and Morgagni were the creators of the sciences of physiology and pathology, the inaugurators of a new era of continuous progress on scientific lines. Albrecht von Haller (1703- 1777), a pupil of Boerhaave, was appointed professor at Gottingen in 1737, the year of the foundation of that university. His knowledge of the natural sciences and of medical literature surpassed even that of his master, Boerhaave, whose methods he followed. His great discovery was the distinction between the irritability of muscle fibres and the sensibility of nerve, thus banishing all dreams of a soul or archeus ruling every function and process in the living body. He arrived at this conclusion, not by a prio7-i reasoning, but by series of actual experiments on living animals. He was also the first to study the effects of drugs in the healthy man or animal with the view of deter- mining their physiological action, and thus explaining, if possible, the power they exercised on the course and symptoms of disease—a study that has of late years been pursued with great success under the name of pharmacology. But solid as was the work of Haller, that of Giovanni Battista Morgagni (1682-1771) possesses a peculiar and permanent interest. Post-mortem examinations had been made and descriptions published by Montanus, Lancisi, Valsalva, Vieusseux, Haller, Tulpius, and others, but mostly as curiosities of medicine, and mixed up, as in Tulpius' Observations, with reports of unusual cases, remarkable operations, and strange malformations, not, as by Morgagni, with the definite intention of assisting in the construction of a true science of morbid anatomy, as it was then called. He was an indefatigable worker, a careful observer and good microscopist; but it was not until his eightieth year, nine years before his death, that he determined to collate, classify, and give to the world the results of his life's labours in a series of letters, entitled De sedibus et causis morboi'um per anatomen indagatis. Other works of more or less merit appeared in Italy and elsewhere, the first complete treatise on pathology in the English language having been that of Matthew Baillie,279 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF published in 1793. Two Scottish physicians of this period call for a passing notice as the last of the systematists: Wm. Cullen, who, taking up Haller's doctrine of irritability, constructed a Nosology or Classification of Diseases, in which irritability, muscular or more often nervous, was made to explain all; and John Brown (1735- 1782), who, though not held in much repute in England and France, achieved an extraordinary but short-lived fame in his own Scotland, in Germany—where the speculative and imagina- tive tendency of an intellectual activity, culti- vated in an atmosphere of philosophic schools, craved for a system that should explain all the mysteries of nature—and in Italy, where, with the loss of national spirit, both literature and science were showing symptoms of decay. Ac- cording to the Brunonian system, as it was called, all the phenomena of life and of mind were mani- festations of excitability evoked by extrinsic or intrinsic causes, excess—or, more often, defects— of this constituting diseases, which were there- fore divisible into sthenic and asthenic, the latter comprising 97 per cent of the whole, and calling for stimulating methods of treatment, a con- clusion that had at least the advantage of provoking a reaction against the violent anti- phlogistic methods then in vogue. It may have been this consideration that led to the popularity the Brunonian system attained in America, throvigh the advocacy of so sober a physician as Benjamin Rush. Solid and lasting work was, however, achieved during the eighteenth century by the Italian anatomists and pathologists, Valsalva, Lancisi, and others in the earlier period, and in the later by the English physicians, John Fothergill (1712-1780), who first described diphtheria under the name of " putrid sore- throat," by John Huxham (1694-1768) in his researches on epidemic fevers, and by John Pringle (1707-1782), whose work on those prevalent in camps and prisons, and embodied in a treatise on The Diseases of an Army, was translated into several languages, and, long the standai-d authority on this subject, may even now be studied with interest. Two discoveries, that of auscultation in the diagnosis of diseases of the lungs and pleura by Auenbrugger of Vienna (1722-1809), published in his Inventum Novum in 1761, and that of vaccination by Edward Jenner in the last year of the century, met with very different recep- tions. Auenbrugger, who practised immediate percussion of the chest-walls with the finger of one hand only, was treated with ridicule or neglect until just before his death, when Corvisart translated his Inventum into French, and the aged physician found himself famous. Jenner's substitution of vaccination for inocula- tion was, on the other hand, received with enthusiasm and rewarded by grants of ,£30,000 from Parliament; nor was it till two or three generations had enjoyed the blessing of this discovery, and the face of humanity had literally been changed, that, save among the most ignorant classes, any serious opposition was raised to the practice : and while, not only in Germany and Scandinavia, but in Servia and Japan, vaccination and revaccination are enforced by law, in England alone, the land of his birth, has compulsion been practically abandoned. Inoculation of smallpox, practised in the East from time immemorial, had been introduced into England in 1721, but it was found that, though the disease thus artificially induced was so mild as to be very rarely fatal, the total mortality was swollen by the deaths of others who con- tracted the infection from those who were thus rendered insusceptible for the future, while it was obviously impossible to extirpate the disease by a process that involved the maintenance of a succession of cases. For this Jenner substituted the inoculation of a virus that had, by having been passed through an animal to which it was foreign, been so profoundly modified as to be no longer communicable save by actual insertion, and been converted into a local lesion devoid of all danger to life, yet retaining in its attenuated form enough of its original character as to confer an immunity against the normal disease scarcely inferior to that imparted by smallpox itself. Later experience has, however, shown a deteriora- tion of the strain as regards the duration of the protection, and it has been proved by experi- ment that to obtain results equal to those of Jenner recourse must be had to inoculation of the cow with smallpox, thus securing a lymph of pristine energy. This period saw the rise of homoeopathy, the most fantastic and imintelligible system of medicine ever propounded, which, while pre- tending to present a complete explanation of disease, outrages reason and common - sense. Had it been of the nature of a reaction against the polypharmacy of the traditional therapy, the indiscriminate stimulation of Brown, or the reckless depletion of Broussaiss, Hahnemann would have sought his arguments from the solid evidence of physiology and pathology, instead of which he treated all inquiry into the causes of phenomena as utterly useless, maintaining that the symptoms themselves constituted the disease, and that, as such, they and they alone called for attention, forgetting that every effect must have a cause, and that various combinations of symp- toms imply a plurality of causes and presumably indicate different treatment. He rejected all beliefs in the vis medicatrix naturae, enunciating as the sole rule of practice the doctrine of similia similihus curantur, implied in the name of homoeopathy. By this he meant that a disease —that is to say, a certain aggregate or combina- tion of symptoms—would be cured by the administration of a drug, if such could be found, capable of giving rise in a healthy person to a similar association of symptoms; though he didHISTORY OF 280 MEDICINE, not care to explain why the artificially-induced disease should have this effect, instead of aggra- vating the condition of the sufferer, or, on the principle of Satan casting out Satan, leaving him in statu quo ante. He denounced all others as allopaths, or men who acted on the vulgar notion that the addition of like (plus and minus) quantities resulted in zero, and that opposite forces tended to produce equilibrium. As a matter of fact, the only illustrations homoeo- pathists can adduce, as the value of castor-oil in diarrhoea, are apparent, not real; and the action of aconite, of which they make such constant use in febrile conditions, is the most brilliant example of " allopathic " treatment one could find in the whole range of materia medica. But his appeal from the judgment of the pro- fession to the laity, and his assurance that, the simple recognition of outward and visible signs being all that is necessary, the man in the street is as competent as the most learned physi- ologist to decide on the merits of the system, and to some extent to practise it, has by flatter- ing their self-esteem secured for it a popularity chiefly among ladies and men whose education has been wholly literary, and given it a per- manency that it could not otherwise have obtained. Hahnemann professed to have dis- covered and verified the alleged properties or effects of his drugs by observations on himself and other persons in health, but it is evident that the results were for the most part precon- ceived or imaginary. He next proclaimed the still more astounding doctrine of " potentialities," which was that the therapeutic action of a drug increased, inversely as its toxic energy, with dilution, especially if accompanied by agitation or trituration. He accordingly reduced his " mother" tinctures to one-fiftieth of their original strength, and repeated this dilution until he reached and employed by preference that represented by the 30th power of 50 ! His later extravagances were worthy of the inmate of a madhouse, and it is almost needless to say that even his fundamental dogma of similia simiWms has been renounced in practice, and though the "globules" sold to the public may often be inert, "homoeopathic physicians" now are merely such in name, using the same drugs for the same purposes and in the same doses as other practitioners, but finding it expedient to keep up the appearance of heterodoxy by restricting themselves to special modes of administration, and would be disowned by Hahnemann as sailing under false colours. The history of medicine in the nineteenth century has on the whole been one of unbroken progress in scientific investigation and rational empiricism. Especially has this been the case in this country, for the French school, which reached its highest position in the second and third quarters of the century, has recently begun to show indications of decline; while Italy, until the last quarter far behind her neighbours, has rapidly come to the front, more than recalling her glories of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; and Germany, where, save in Vienna, the old barren dogmatism and scholastic methods long held sway, awoke in the forties from her lethargy, and by combining the exact clinical observation of the English school with unbounded devotion to the pursuit of every department of science, the endowment of original research and lavish expenditure on laboratories—attracting students and teachers from every country in Europe, from America and Japan—as well as the rebuilding of hos- pitals in every town on the most recent models, has established her position without a rival as the instructress of the world, thus obliterating all national differences, imparting her methods to and impressing her character on the science and medicine of other lands, which thus become year by year more uniform and cosmopolitan in every essential feature and aspect. The progress of the science and art of medicine in the nineteenth century has not merely been unin- terrupted, it has been marked by a continuous acceleration; and may be divided into three periods, each exhibiting a distinctive character. The first, from 1800 to about 1840, was one of slow but steady improvement in clinical methods and in the development of pathological anatomy; in the second, from 1840 to 1880, a great impetus was given to it by the brilliant discoveries of physiologists and chemists, especially in the de- partments of organic and synthetic chemistry; while in the third, from 1880 to the present day, the creation of a new science, that of bac- teriology, has effected a revolution in our con- ceptions of a large and yearly-increasing number of diseases, and has opened up a boundless vista of possibilities in preventive and curative medicine. In the first period the French school took the foremost place alike in the methods of clinical observation and in the development of patho- logical anatomy by Bayle, Andral, Chomel, Cruveilhier, and Louis. Corvisart had in 1808 recalled from oblivion Auenbrugger's discovery of immediate percussion, which Piorry improved by introducing the mediate method; while Laennec completed the art of physical examina- tion of the lungs and heart by the invention of the stethoscope as an aid to auscultation, in 1819 —propounding also the first theory of tubercu- losis ; Louis was the first to distinguish enteric, or, as he unfortunately called it, typhoid, fi'om typhus fever; Bretonneau investigated the nature of diphtheria, giving it this name; and as a clinical teacher Trousseau was second to none, except perhaps Graves of Dublin, whose lectures he acknowledged as the models of his own. Laennec's work in the physical examina- tion of the lungs and heart was taken up and further developed by Latham and Hope in England and Stokes of Dublin; and RichardHISTORY OF 281 MEDICINE, Bright in London immortalised his name by his epoch-making researches on the acute and chronic inflammation of the kidney, as Addison's has been associated with those of the adrenal glands. During this period the Germans, though patiently laying the foundations of the physi- ology of the future, did but little for the advancement of practical medicine. Vienna, however, produced two men whose names will never be forgotten, and who, as the teachers of the next generation of German physicians, pre- pared the way for the regeneration of medical science in the Empire : Skoda, who further im- proved the art of physical examination of the lungs and heart; and Rokitanski, whose gigantic labours in the entire field of pathological anatomy eclipsed those of all his predecessors and placed the science of pathology on a firm and permanent foundation. The second period was one of ceaseless activity in the fields of physiology and organic chemistry, the effect of which was to give an entirely new character to medical science. In both, the largest amount of work was done in Germany and France ; but as an Englishman had first demonstrated the circulation of the blood, so science owes to two other Englishmen, Marshall Hall and Sir Charles Bell, the dis- coveries of reflex action and the diff"erentiation of afferent and efferent or sensory and motor nerves, from which the whole of our knowledge of the functions of the nervous system and the causation of its diseases was subsequently de- rived. On the foundation thus laid others have built up by degrees the most marvellous achieve- ments of biology. It must suffice to mention Flourens, Broca, Brown-Sequard, Schroder, van der Kolk, and Du Bois Reymond among many who have investigated the function of the spinal cord; and Charcot, Erb, Eulenburg, Hitzig, Goltz, Ferrier, Horsley, and Gowers among those who have studied those of the several structures and component parts of the encephalon, espe- cially the localisation of the>olitional control of muscular action and of the functions of speech and language in particular cerebral convolutions. Claude Bernard and Pavy were among the earliest to investigate the functions of the liver, though their conclusions have been greatly modified of late, as have those of the past generation respecting the functions of the kidney, the more apparently obvious of which, as the production of urea and uric acid as well as the destruction of sugar in the blood, have been transferred to the liver and pancreas. Liebig's chemical theories of digestion were de- molished by Moleschott, and the subject placed on a true footing by Pennenkofer and his pupils; while, partly as the result of the triumphs of surgeons, the stomach has been shown to play a far less important part in the process than the small intestine and its glandular connections—in fact, to be far from an indis- pensable organ. The functions of the so-called ductless glands, the spleen, thyroid, and adrenals have been greatly elucidated by experimental and clinical research, and the study of the con- sequences of disease or injury of these oi'gans, especially of the thyroid, has led to the attain- ment of remarkable results in the treatment of disease by the administration of extracts con- taining the active principles of their secretions —that of the adrenals possessing properties of a remarkable and unexpected character and ex- treme energy. From the time of Skoda and Walsh, the diseases, structural and functional, of the heart and their physical diagnosis have engaged the attention of a host of workers, among whom Marey will ever be remembered as the inventor of the sphygmograph, by which alone could our knowledge of the influence on the circulation of variations in the elasticity of the arterial walls, of arterial and venous tension, of the conditions of nutrition and innervation of the heart itself and of those of its valves have reached their present completeness. As indirect consequences of these and of the re- searches of Haym, Ehrlich, Gravitz, v. Limbeck, Hoppe-Seyler, etc., into the relative numbers and different forms of blood-cells in health and disease have been the greater importance now attached to weakness of heart muscle than to valvular imperfections as such, and the utter discredit of transfusion of blood in any shape, in favour of intravenous or subcutaneous in- jections of a saline solution, capable of far wider application, and wholly free from danger. A. Kohler in 1877 boldly proclaimed that in death from haemorrhage under ordinary con- ditions the fatal termination was due not to the loss of the organic solids of the blood, but to the drain of fluid simply as fluid, the effect being purely mechanical or hydrostatical, since, as he plainly put it, " a pump when empty ceases to work." Sahli showed how the increased tension induced by the saline injection might be used to accelerate the elimination of poisons whether swallowed or produced in the organism, espe- cially if the injection were preceded by vene- section, thus explaining and to some extent justifying the copious "bloodings" of a past generation, since the thirst that followed de- manded the imbibition of large quantities of fluid, which restored the arterial tension in like manner as the injections, though less rapidly. Among all the activities of this age of pro- gress one name towers above the I'est, Rudolf Virchow, the record of whose work is the his- tory of modern scientific pathology. Born in Pomerania in 1821, he, after graduating at Berlin, was in 1849 appointed Professor at Wurzburg, where he had for one of his colleagues the great histologist, Kolliker. He here evolved his system of cellular pathology, which he gave to the world in his lectures at the PathologicalMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 282 Institute in the University of Berlin, whither he had been translated in 1856, and published it in 1858. Refuting previous notions of the fibrillary or granular structure of tissues and of the evolution of cells in fluids, he showed and boldly maintained that cells were characteristic of living organisms and were, in fact, the living and independent, though mutually related, imits of which all living things were composed ; themselves produced solely from pre-existent cells—oiiinis celhda e celluld—and self-sufficient for all purposes in unicellular organisms, they formed in the higher a social organisation, building up the tissues by the differentiation of their walls, of their contents, or of the solids or liquids which they deposited or exuded, as intercellular substances—previously known as the matrix or the plasma, from the erroneous notion that the cells originated in it—and by further specialisation exercising the most diverse functions from those of excretion, secretion, and movement to the highest manifestations of sensibility, intelligence, and volition. Their growth and decay, proliferation and death undei-lay the phenomena of atrophy and hyper- " trophy, hyperplasia, degeneration, hetei'oplasia and metamorphosis that constituted disease, which was to be sought not in organs or tissues, but in the individual and component cells, some of which might be healthy while others around were diseased; and the causes of their disease might be due to defective nutrition, to the abnormal condition of others variously correlated with them, or to the absorption by the cells of poisons in the nutrient fluids. Among other pathological phenomena, the true nature of which we owe to Virchow, may be mentioned those of neoplasms, thrombosis, and embolism, septicsemia and pysemia, so- called metastases, and the physiological aspects of heredity. Pathology alone was, however, too narrow a field for the genius of this extra- ordinary man, whose superabundant energy found room for its exercise in archaeology, ethnology, anthropology, and even political and municipal activity, and whose physical and intellectual vigour is undiminished in his eightieth year.^ The four signs given by Celsus as constituting or indicative of inflammation, '■'■dolor, color, rubor, twnior" were accepted by everyone until within the memory of the younger men of the present generation. Since local stimula- tion led to increased nutritive activity, inflam- mation as a frequent result of irritation was looked on as an extreme form of the same. It was Lister who first suggested that there was rather a lowered vitality in the part, and though the dilatation of the capillaries, stasis, adhesion of the white corpuscles to the walls, and transudation of the blood serum had been observed by Wharton Jones and others, it was 1 Virchow died in 1902 at the age of 81. Cohnheim who first demonstrated the migration of the leucocytes through the walls of the vessels, and Metschnikof who traced their subsequent activity as scavenger cells, to be devoured in their turn by larger phagocytes; while further researches have shown the con- nection between leucocytes and pus corpuscles, and between connective-tissue cells, macro- phagocytes, and granulation tissue. As scien- tific generalisation brings apparently diverse phenomena together under simple laws by distinguishing the accidental from the essential, the signs of Celsus have one by one been rejected, and processes having at first sight little, if anything, in common are shown to be but forms of inflammation, the differences being dependent on the structure and functions of the part; while inflammation is neither an excess of vital activity nor in itself a disease, but rather an effort of nature at self-preservation, the repair of injury, or the elimination of a poison, albeit often misdirected and failing in the attainment of its ends. These advances had for the most part been made on more or less well-known lines, as the natural result of patient observation and re- search ; but with the discovery of the bacillus anthracis a wholly new world of knowledge was revealed, the entire character of a great part of scientific medicine completely transformed, and boundless possibilities opened to the view. The pioneers in this revolution were not medical men; Robert Boyle, two hundred years before, had, with a flight of scientific imagination little short of prophetic inspiration, written—" He that thoroughly imderstands the nature of ferments and fermentation shall probably be much better able than he that ignores them to give a fair account of several diseases, as well fevers as others, which will perhaps never be thoroughly understood without an insight into the doctrine of fermentation." Micro- scopists from Leeuwenhoek and Ehrenberg to Cohn, de Bary and Naegeli had studied the protozoa and minute fungi now known as bacteria, which for a long time were supposed to belong to the same class as the former by those who looked on movement and locomotion as characteristic of animals as distinguished from plants, and conjecture as to their connection with diseases had been rife. Plenciz of Vienna had, indeed, formulated a theory of a contagium vivum for each of the specific infectious diseases. But the first accurate observations had been made with a view of verifying or refuting the doctrine of abiogenesis. In 1857 Pasteur, a French chemist, took up the subject of fermentation at the point where it had been left by Cagniard-Latour and Schwann, and demonstrated the dependence on bacterial activity, not only of all fermentation, but of every process of decomposition of organic matter and its conversion or reduction to theMEDICINE, HISTOKY OF 283 inorganic state, and showed that every form of septicaemia, surgical and puerperal, was due to the absorption of the products of the putrefaction of dead organic matter into the living body. On this discovery Lister based his practice of antiseptic treatmen'foT'Avounds and the performance of surgical operations, whenever practicable, under aseptic conditions. The results of this have changed the whole aspect of surgery, reducing the mortality, danger, and difficulty of all operations, and rendering possible and comparatively free from risk a large number of others, as those involving opening of the abdomen or cranium, which had previously been so fatal as to be deemed un- justifiable. Meanwhile, Pollender having in 1855 published his discovery (in 1849) of the constant presence of rod-like bodies in the blood of animals dying of anthrax, Davaine suggested a causal relation. Hitherto, and indeed until 1870 or later, all bacteria had been looked on as accidental variations of one and the same organism, or as spores or phases of some of the higher fungi; but Davaine, finding that, by the inoculation of these into healthy animals, he could produce anthrax only, and, by that of those of " ordinary putrefactions," septicsemia in some of its forms, concluded that these two, at any rate, were causative and specific. Still no further progress was made until the seventies, when KocljL introduced the use of solid media in place of tli^ culture fluids employed by Pasteur and all previous observers. By the addition of just enough gelatine to solidify the broth or other nutrient fluid at the usual temperatures, it became possible to transplant single colonies on the pohit of a needle to fresh tubes, and thus obtaining pure cultures of each bacillus or coccus to study the conditions of pabulum, reaction, temperature, and presence or absence of oxygen, best for each; their power of liquefying the gelatine, of evolving gases, acids, etc., and the results of their inoculation into living animals; while the discovery by Ehi-lich and others that bacilli and cocci, morphologically indistinguishable, could be easily differentiated by their behaviour towards various stains, especially of the aniline group, dispelled the last shadows of uncertainty attaching to microscopic observations and physiological experiments. Koch identified the bacilli of cholera and tuberculosis; Finkler and Prior those of other diarrhoeal diseases; Klebs and Loeffler that of diphtheria ; Eberth and Gaffky, of enteric fever ; Obermeier, of relapsing fever; Cantani and Nicolaier, of tetanus; Pfeiffer, of influenza; Friedlander, of pneumonia; Kitasato and Yersin, of plague, while others did the same for the microbes of a number of diseases of animals, especially of horses, cattle, swine, and fowls. Many were shown to be engaged in the process of reducing organic matter to its ultimate inorganic constituents, and some always present in the animal secretions to be innocent, or, as the B. coli, capable under special conditions of acquiring pathogenic properties, while patho- genic forms might in like manner lose and resume their virulence. Some of these are pathogenic to man or to certain animals only; others to several or all alike. Some are capable of growing and multiplying in the living body only ; others have also an extracorporeal and independent existence, the diseases to which they give rise being, with one exception at any rate—that of tetanus—communicable to other individuals. There remain a number of specific and communicable diseases, which all analogy compels us to look on as microbic, but of which the cocci, whether from their minuteness or the failure as yet to cultivate them in artificial media, have not been identified with any certainty. The influence of these discoveries on our views as to the etiology and pathology of specific and communicable diseases, and on preventive measures and disinfection, has been great; but that of the further developments of bacteriology on prophylaxis and the treatment of disease in the individual promises still greater results. Pasteur had found that by cultivating bacteria under unfavourable conditions he could obtain what he called attenuated virus, the inoculation of which conferred a degree of insusceptibility to stronger or to natural in- fection. The most unequivocal success some- what remarkably followed the peculiar procedure practised by him in the case of rabies, the microbe of which he, at any rate, failed to discover, and in which he employed living rabbits in place of artificial culture fluids. But with anthrax, rouget, etc., the impossibility of standardising his virus and the attendant risks of excess or defect were such as obviously to preclude the application of his methods to the diseases of man. Meanwhile there was a con- sensus among bacteriologists and pathologists that the immediate cause of the phenomena of fevers, etc., was the action of a poison formed by the bacteria in the animal fluids, as alcohol is in a saccharine solution by the growth of the yeast fungus. Roux and Yersin verified this in the case of diphtheria, the sterilised or filtered culture fluids of the bacilli, when inoculated, inducing all the phenomena of the disease ex- cept the exudation, and its communicability to other animals. The problems of immunity were taken up in earnest by Behring and Kitasato, who came to the conclusion that resistance to subsequent reinfection, as well as the spontaneous termination of specific diseases, was due to the production by the cells of the infected animal under the influence of the toxin of an antidote or antitoxin, and that the degree of resistance to the effects of the poison presented by any animal not wholly insusceptible depended on the quantity and rapidity of production of the284 MEDICINE, HISTORY OF antitoxin. After numerous trials they found that the horse possessed this power of resisting the effect of enormous and repeated increasing- doses of the most virulent diphtheritic toxin from sterilised cultures, so that after a time the serum of its blood presented a concentrated solution of the antitoxin, the strength of which could be determined by its power of neutralising the effects of known quantities of the toxin on highly susceptible animals, as guinea-pigs, employed for the purpose. The success of this treatment has fulfilled the most sanguine ex- pectation, adequate doses of such antitoxin injected within the first two or three days of the disease, before the toxin has appreciably damaged the nervous and muscular tissues, arresting its progress and reducing the mortality from an average of 30 to 5 per cent or less, and a single injection protecting a healthy individual from infection for three or four weeks. Prophylactic or therapeutic sera, variously prepared by modifications of Behring's or Pasteur's methods, have been used with more or less apparent siiccess in other diseases, as Haffkin's, Yersin's, and especially Lustig's, against plague; but none of these, and still less those against cholera, enteric, and yellow fever, can as yet be said to have gone beyond the tentative and experimental stage. A pheno- menon first observed by Grube, but commonly known as Widal's test, the agglomeration of the bacilli of enteric fever in a fluid culture on the addition of a small quantity of the serum of a person suffering, or who has within a period of, say, ten or twelve years suffered from that disease, and doubtless due to the action of some antitoxin, and in the case of a previous attack connected with the acquired immunity, is, if the experiments be conducted with proper pre- cautions, absolutely diagnostic of the nature of the fever, and of the utmost value in doubtful cases. The same phenomenon has since been noticed in other diseases and applied to the identification of bacilli of doubtful nature. Tuberculin and mallein, prepared respectively from cultures of the bacilli of tuberculosis and of glanders by Koch, though they have failed to exert any influence on the course of these diseases, have proved of the utmost value in diagnosis; their injection, while producing no effect in a healthy animal, being followed by febrile disturbance, marked by a characteristic curve if the disease be present, even in its earliest stages, when as yet no physical signs can be detected. TuberciUin is now widely used in the elimination of tuberculous cows from the herds of dairy farms, and mallein for the ex- clusion of glanders from the establishments of cavalry regiments in Germany and Austria. The search for an antidote to the poison of the venomous snakes of India and other tropical countries seemed as hopeless as that for the " philosopher's stone"; but Sewall and Kan- thack having found that animals could be immunised by repeated injections of minute doses of the poison, Calmette continued the work with extraordinary care and patience until he rendered rabbits, the most susceptible of animals, immume against almost incredible quantities of the venom, and their serum a well- nigh infallible antidote to the poison, not only of the pai'ticular species of snake employed, but to those of all others, even when the man or animal bitten has been apparently moribund. Though the poison of serpents is a secretion of a gland, not the prodvict of bacteria, it is evident that its introduction into the body of an animal tends to the production of an anti- toxin in the same way as does that of the toxin of diphtheria, though under ordinary conditions in qviantities utterly insuihcient to neutralise its effects. A retrospect of the successive views as to the nature of tuberculosis that have prevailed during the past half century presents one of the most instructive studies in the history of modern medicine and of steps towards the attainment of the truth. The name of tubercle was given by Laennec to the nodular masses found in the lungs and other organs involved. To him the minute "miliary" or grey tubercles were the earliest manifestations, and the yellow masses the later developments. A subsequent generation of physicians discovered that the yellow or "caseous" masses were merely ac- cumulations of the degenerated products of in- flammatory and catarrhal processes which might or might not have a tuberculous character; and Virchow, finding that the miliary tubercles followed the course of the minute lymphatic vessels, and were, in fact, diseased lymph glands, described true tubercle as a new for- mation or neoplasm of the lymphatic type, analogous to those evolved from other tissues, as epitheliomata, sarcomata, etc., and which, like all such, was prone to degeneration and caseation. Villemin, Wilson Fox, and others demonstrated the infective character of tubercle, and of such caseous materials as were derived from or associated with it; and lastly, Koch, by the discovery of the tubercle bacillus, pure cultures of which, free from the smallest trace of cheesy or other matters, were, when inocu- lated into susceptible animals, followed almost invariably by the development of tuberculosis— first local and then general—established the bacterial character of the disease and its com- municability. Each conception of tubercle in the past contained an element of truth, but was not the whole truth, and Virchow's lymphomata were nothing more than the lymphatic vessels and glands enlarged by the irritation of the bacilli that permeated them and followed them in their course. The recognition of the bacillus as the essence of the disease brought together as local manifestations of tuberculosis a numberMEDICINE, HISTORY OF 285 of lesions, as caries of the vertebrae, lupus, etc., previously supposed to have nothing in common; and showed, too, that cold and damp, dust, and defective ventilation were not efficient causes of tuberculosis, but conditions conducive thereto by reducing the power of resistance and facilitating infection with the bacillus. The bearing of these facts on the prevention and treatment of consumption is obvious; but it is interesting to notice how the general improve- ments in the dwellings and the standard of living, and the better ventilation and conditions of workshops, had effected a great reduction in the general mortality from phthisis long before the explanation was discovered. One form alone, that of intestinal tuberculosis in infants, has become more prevalent pari 2mssii with the increased use of the milk of cows, among whom tuberculosis is appallingly genei'al. More restricted in its bearings, but even more unexpected and astonishing in its theoreti- Jl^ t.y^i'^nd practical aspects, is the latest discovery of the past century as to the nature of the so-called malarial or paludal fevers. Drs. Manson and Bancroft had proved by observation and experi- ment the presence in the blood in certain tropi- cal diseases of minute nematoid worms or filarise, and that they passed one phase of their exist- ence in the bodies of certain species of gnats, by the bites of which they obtained entrance into the human body. But the apparent dependence of malarial diseases on telluric and meteorological conditions of soil, temperature, and moisture seemed obvious, and to be con- firmed by the effect of drainage and cultivation in ultimately extinguishing these diseases, or at least in ameliorating their severity. Not unnaturally, the Italian bacteriologists set themselves to the search for a hypothetical bacillus malaricB in the soil and water of the Roman Campagna, until Laveran announced the discovery of a hoematozoon, to which he gave the name of Plasmodium, and the connection between these, of which several distinct varieties were soon recognised, and the phenomena of the disease was universally accepted, though all endeavours to detect it in the soil or water were unsuccessful. The analogy between filariasis and malaria, as diseases caused by hsematozoa, suggested to an Indian army surgeon, Majoi: Ronald Ross, a similar cycle of existence in the mosquito and the man, for the parasite of the latter, as had been proved by Manson in the case of filariasis, and it was not long before he traced the development of the plasmodia through their asexual and sexual phases passed success- fully in the bodies of the anopheles and of man, attacking the red corpuscles of his blood and inducing ansemia, icterus, and hsemoglobinuria. The inquiry was eagerly taken up by Grassi, Bignami, Celli, and others in Italy, who showed by experiment that so long as men were pro- tected from the bites of the anopheles they might expose themselves with impunity to the night air in the most pestilential localities ; and, on the other hand, they could induce attacks in the healthiest situations by voluntarily submit- ting to be bitten by infected anopheles brought from a distance and imprisoned in the rooms in which they slept. Ross and Annett in West, and the brothers Plehn in East Africa, with others in Australasia and elsewhere, have brought a mass of compara- tive observations to bear on the elucidation of the problem, the complexity of which grows with our knowledge. Much remains to be learned as to the distribution and habits of the several species of anopheles, the significance of the various forms of plasmodium, the relations, if any, between the two, and so on; but this appears certain, that the physical conditions hitherto supposed to be conducive to malaria are simply those required by the anopheles, and are of themselves powerless to cause it; that the three factors of the anopheles, men, and Plasmodia, are equally necessary, no malaria being possible in the absence of any one, but appearing so soon as the " missing link" is supplied. It is obvious that the extermination of the anopheles would be followed by the dis- appearance of the disease, and there is every reason to believe that in islands, if not also over well-defined continental areas, this might be effected by the persevering destruction of the larvse and the obliteration of the standing waters constituting their breeding-places, a task which their peculiar habits render far easier than it would be in the case of the culices and other gnats, if, indeed, it might not be possible to call in the aid of some of the numerous parasites, fungoid, and others to which insects are specially prone. Recent researches have thus shown that there are other pathogenic organisms than bacteria, the havoc wrought by htematozoa far exceeding that of all the higher entozoa and parasites, animal and vegetable, hitherto known ; also that there is a closer association than had been suspected between the diseases of man and those of the lower animals, even when not communi- cetble and common to both. ^Surgery has made greater progress in the last half of the century than in the two thousand years preceding, the only important innovation in the past having been the substitution of the ligation of arteries for the cautery and pressure. Being essentially an art, its advances have been rather of the nature of improved methods and manipulations than in research, save so far as the discoveries of physiologists have exerted an influence on practice. But with the introduc- tion of anfesthetics operative surgery lost its terrors, and rapidity of execution gave way to care and accuracy in details, procedures previ- ously excluded on account of the time required for their performance coming into favour.MEDICINE, HISTORY OF 286 Great as were the benefits conferred by anjes- thetics, they have been far outdone by those of antiseptic treatment and aseptic operations, including the employment of aseptic and ab- sorbable materials for ligatures and sutures. Chloroform and ether had almost abolished shock, but the incubus of septicfemia paralysed the hand of the surgeon when any operation seemed indicated, involving opening of the abdomen or resection of its viscera. Now, how- ever, all is changed—septicemia and "pyEemia" are practically unknown : amputations of limbs heal without suppuration, requiring but one or two dressings; operations, as ovariotomy, that men still living once denounced as unjustifiable, if not criminal, are of daily occurrence, with fatalities under 1 per cent; and resections of portions of the stomach and intestine, amputa- tion of portions of the liver, operations on the gall bladder and ducts, the kidneys and lungs, removal of tumours from the brain and cord, with others which were, and rightly, deemed inadmissible, if not impracticable five-and-twenty years ago, are now undertaken without hesita- tion by every surgeon. This increased safety, among other conditions, has had the effect of creating a special branch of practice, at once medical and surgical, that of gynjecology, which has, however, in some respects, suffered from excess of zeal and a tendency to one-sidedness of view. The progress of scientific medicine has been greatly favoured by the invention of physical aids to diagnosis and treatment, as the enor- mous development of electric methods, apparatus for measuring the blood pressure and counting the cells, and examining the lungs and heart, the ophthalmoscope, laryngoscope, and apparatus for inspection of internal cavities, and the chemical and bacteriological examination of the secretions; but within the last decade a wholly new and unexpected power has been acquired in the Rontgen rays, which enable one to take pictures, and the fluorescent screen on which one can see objects and structures within the body, the transparency or opacity of media to these rays being entirely independent of their behaviour towards those of the spectrum and in some relation to their density. At first the new method was employed by surgeons only in the diagnosis of fractures, etc., and the de- tection of foreign bodies, as bullets; but it promises to be of at least equal value to the physician in the recognition of areas of conges- tion and consolidation in the lungs from what- ever cause before any physical signs have been produced, and after they have disappeared. Within the last two years a new method of treatment, phototherapy, has been introduced, and applied with the best results in the cure of lupus, which had been shown by Volkmann to be a cutaneous tuberculosis. It is based on the well-known inhibitory action of light on the growth of many bacilli, and consists in the re- peated exposure of the affected part to the concentrated rays of the most powerful electric light obtainable, brought to a focus after the heat rays have been intercepted, so that the bacilli are killed in situ, while the local irrita- tion is quite insignificant. Medicine; iVIedicai Practi- tioner, Law as to. Introduction ...... 286 Physicians ...... 286 Surgeons 287 Apothecaries . . . . . .287 Medical Acts 287 Medical Council . . . .288 Qualification for Registration . . 288 Privileges of Registered Persons . .289 Fees op Witnesses .... 289 Women 289 Dentists . . . . . .290 Liability for Negligence . . .290 Criminal Responsibility . . . 290 Pharmacopceia . . . . .290 Notification of Disease . . . 290 See also Midwives. Introduction. •— The practice of the healing art has long obtained legal sanction and recog- nition in this country. Practitioners were divided into three main branches, known re- spectively as physicians, surgeons or barber chirurgeons, and apothecaries, whose functions and status were quite distinct, who were gov- erned by different charters and statutes, and pursued their callings independently of, and sometimes in antagonism to, one another. Be- sides the above, there have always been, as there are still, persons who attended to human ailments without having any legally recognised qualification for doing so. The union of all qualified persons, and their recognition as members of one profession, is modern. Physicians.—By a statute passed in the year 1511 (3 Hen. VIII. c. 11), no person was per- mitted to take upon him to exercise and occupy as a physician and surgeon until he had been examined and approved for that calling. The examination was in those days conducted under the sanction of, and the approval obtained from, the bishop of the diocese. Physicians obtained a charter of incorpora- tion in the year 1518, and in 1522 the College got the right of examining and approving persons to practise physick, concurrently with graduates of the universities of Oxford and Cambridge. The bishop's license was thus superseded (14 & 15 Hen. VIII. c. 5). The Col- lege were also empowered to exercise control and supervision over all dealers in drugs. By a sulsscquent Act of the same reign (32 Hen. VIII. c. 40), persons chosen and admitted by the President and Fellowship of the College of Physicians were authorised to practise inMEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO 287 physick, including surgery, anywhere within the realm. The charter and Act of 1522 were recognised and confirmed in 1553, and the privileges of the College enlarged (1 M. Sess. 2, c. 9). Their charter and privileges were again recognised by statute in 1858, 1859, 1860, and 1886. The material portions of these Acts are discussed in subsequent parts of this article. Surgeons.—Surgery was originally practised by barbers. In the city of London, the barbers obtained a charter of incorporation from King Edward IV. in the year 1461. Many other skilled surgeons were, however, in practice, and in the year 1540 they and the barbers were in- corporated, and were given the exclusive right to practise surgery within the city of London and its suburbs (32 Hen. VIII. c. 42). Under the title of " the mystery and commonalty of barbers and surgeons of London," the physicians and barber surgeons seem to have attempted to monopolise all treatment of disease to their own profit, for in the year 1452 (34 & 35 Hen. VIII. c. 9) an Act was passed declaring that it shall be lawful for any subject of the king " having knowledge and experience of the nature of herbs, roots, and waters, or the operation of the same, to practise, use, and minister in and to any outward disorder, any herbs, ointments, bettes, pultess, and cornplaisters, according to their cunning, or drinks for the stone, strangury, or agues, without suit, vexation, trouble, penalty, or loss of their goods." The company obtained a further charter in the year 1629 (5 Car. I.), giving it the right to examine and approve all persons who wished to practise surgery in London and Westminster, and empowering persons so approved to practise anywhere in England. In the year 1745, by statute 18 Geo. II. c. 15, the barbers and surgeons were separated into two companies. All the above liberties and privileges were transferred to the new Company of the Art and Science of Surgeons of London, who were empowered to make bylaws, etc., for their own regulation, ordinance, and government and to examine candidates and authorise those who passed successfully to practise the art and science of surgery through- out his Majesty's dominions. It has been suggested that the above Acts, or, at any rate, the older ones, are obsolete. The Court of Appeal, however, in 1885, did not adopt the suggestion, though it did not expressly overrule it {Davies v. MaTc%ma, 1885, 29 Ch. D. 596). There have since that time been several general Statute Law Revision Acts; but the above Acts, though amended in some minor points, remain on the list of statutes in force in the United Kingdom. Apothecaries.—In the year 1618 King James the First granted a charter of incorporation to the apothecaries of London, by virtue of which they practised their art and mysteries and en- joyed special rights and privileges for a period of two centuries. The charter was superseded in the year 1815 by the Apothecaries Act (55 Geo. III. c. 194). By it the Master Wardens and Society of Apothecaries were empowered to regulate the conduct of members of their craft throughout England and Wales. No person, not already in practice, might for the future practise as an apothecary, or apothecary's assist- ant, without passing an examination as to his fitness, and obtaining a certificate of his quali- fication (ss. 14-17). Any person who should thereafter act or practise as an apothecary without having obtained such certificate was declared guilty of an off"ence, and liable to a penalty (s. 20); and it was further provided that no apothecary shall be allowed to recover any charges in a Court of law, unless he should prove at the trial that he had obtained the certificate (s. 21). The Act gives no definition of what constitutes practising as an apothecary, beyond reciting (s. 5) that "it is the duty of every person using or exercising the art and mystery of an apothecary to prepare . . . and dispense such medicines as may be directed by a physician." Making up medicines prescribed by a physician, or by any other person, including the apothecary himself, would therefore come within the Act, but surgical attendance would not {Woodivard v. Bell, 1834, 6 Car. & P. 577). " Dispensing, mixing medicine, giving medical advice, and attending the sick as medical adviser must be considered as acting as an apothecary " (per Cotton, L.J., in Davies v. Makuna, 1885, 29 Ch. D. 606). Carrying on business by means of qualified assistants seems not to be prohibited {ibid.; see also Pharmaceutical Society v. London and Provincial Supply Association, 1880, 5 App. Cas. 857). But a qualified man cannot legally recover charges for medical aid and advice rendered by an unqualified assistant, unless under his own express direction and supervision (Howarth v. Brearley, 1887, 19 Q. B. D. 303). Apothecaries are distinct from chemists in that they may apply and administer medicines, while chemists may only prepare, dispense, and sell them {Apothecaries Co. v. Greeno%iCjh, 1841, 1 Q. B. 800). Pharmaceutical chemists are not considered to be medical practitioners, but are subject to the special regulations of the Phar- macy Acts (see " Chemist"). If a chemist pre- scribes medicine to his customers, as well as makes it up and sells it, he renders himself liable to the penalty under the Pharmacy Act {Apothecaries Co. v. Nottingham, 1876, 34 L. T. 76). Medical Acts.—The union of the different branches of the medical profession under one governing body was effected in the year 1858 by the Medical Act 21 & 22 Vict. c. 90. The original Act was amended in 1859 (22 Vict. c. 21), 1860 (23 & 24 Vict. c. 7), 1876 (39 & 40 Vict. c. 40, and c. 41), and in 1886 (49 & 50 Vict. c. 48). These Acts are to be read together,MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONEE, LAW AS TO 288 and are known as the Medical Acts. By their operation, and especially by that of the Act of 1886, the scope of the original Act has been considerably enlarged. The constitution of the General Council has been remodelled. It now consists of thirty members, five of whom are appointed by the Crown, twenty are chosen by universities and medical colleges, and five are elected by the registered medical practitioners in England, Scotland, and Ireland (Act of 1886, s. 7). Medical Council.—By sec. 3 of the Act of 1858 the " General Council of Medical Education and Registration of the United Kingdom" was established. They were directed to appoint registrars (s. 10), who were to keep a correct register of persons legally qualified to practise medicine (s. 15). The register, showing the qualifications of the persons in it, is to be published annually; and the absence from it of any name of any person is prima facie proof that he is not registered (s. 27). The qualifying degrees are set out and enumerated in sec. 18 and Sched. A, as amended by subsequent Acts; and the General Council were empowered, in case it should appear to them that the course of study and examinations to be gone through in order to obtain a qualification from any of the bodies named was not such as to secure the possession by persons obtaining such qualifica- tion of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of their profession, to represent the same to the Privy Council (s. 20), who may thereupon order that any qualification granted to such body shall not confer the right to be registered (s. 21 ; Act of 1886, s. 4). No ex- amining body may, however, impose upon a candidate offering himself for examination an obligation to adopt or refrain from adopting the practice of any particular theory of medicine or surgery {e.g. homoeopathy) as a test or condition of admitting him to examination or granting him a certificate. A body who do so may lose their power of conferring any right to be registered (s. 23). If any registered practitioner is con- victed of a crime, or adjudged by the General Council to have been guilty of infamous conduct in any professional respect, the Council may order his name to be erased from the register (s. 28). They are the sole judges of all questions of fact in such inquiries, and there is no appeal from their decision {Allbutt v. General Council, 1889, 23 Q. B. D. 400). But they must inquire into the case and decide it themselves, after giving the person implicated an opportunity of being heard on the point. The mere withdrawal of a diploma by the body which originally granted it is not of itself a sufficient ground for removing a name from the register {Ex 2Mrte Partridge, 1887, 19 Q. B. D. 467). If it is shown that a medical man, in the pursuit of his profession, has done something which would reasonably be regarded as disgraceful or dis- honourable by his professional brethren of good repute and competency, it is open to the Council to find him guilty of " infamous conduct in a professional respect." They must, of course, have evidence on which to support their finding {Allinsonv. General Council, [1894] 1 Q. B. 750). The issue of advertisements with a view to induce the public to consult the advertiser in preference to other practitioners comes within this definition {ibid.). The Council in the exercise of their functions under this section are a quasi-judicial body. If, therefore, any of the members who take part in the decision of a case have so acted as to disqualify them from acting judicially, e.g. by sitting on a case in which they have shown a bias or have a pecuniary interest, the proceedings might be set aside {Leeson v. General Council, 1889, 43 Ch. D. 366; Alli7ison v. General Council, supra). On the other hand, they cannot be sued for an erroneous exercise of their discretion, as for striking a man off the register when they are not really empowered to do so {Partridge v. General Council, 1890, 25 Q. B. D. 90). The Privy Council have now a general power of supervision over the Medical Council. If at any time it appears to them that the Medical Council has failed to exercise any power or to perform any duty vested in or imposed on it by the Acts, they may notify their opinion to it ; and if the Medical Council fail to comply with any direction of the Privy Council relating to such notification, the Privy Council may them- seh'es give effect to their directions, and exercise any power or do any act vested in or authorised to be done by the Medical Council, and may of their own motion do any act or thing which by the Medical Acts they are authorised to do on a representation from the Medical Council (Act of 1886, s. 19). Qualification for Registration.—Prior to 1887 the various constituents of the Medical Council each granted their own diplomas, entitling their holders to practise in some one or more depart- ments of medicine, e.g. as apothecaries or surgeons. More than one diploma was requi- site for a man who was desirous of practising generally. Since June 1887 no person may be registered unless he has passed a qualifying examination sufficient to guarantee the posses- sion of the knowledge and skill requisite for the efficient practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery (Act of 1886, ss. 2 and 3). A registered practitioner is entitled to practise medicine, surgery, and midwifery in the United Kingdom, and (subject to any local law) in any part of his Majesty's dominions, and to recover in respect of such practice any expenses, charges \\\ respect of medicaments or other appliances, or any fees to which he may be entitled (except fellows of a college of physicians who, by its bylaws, may be prohibited from suing for their fees (s. 6)).MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO 289 Previously to this latter Act practitioners could be, and frequently were, registered in respect of one or more qualifications only, e.g. apothecary or surgeon, and were not legally qualified to practise generally. The position of such persons remains unaltered. They are entitled to practise, in pursuance of the qualifi- cation they originally possessed, in medicine, surgery, or midwifery, or any of them, according as they were previously entitled to practise the same, but not further or otherwise (s. 24). Under sec. 31 of the Act of 1858, which is now repealed, it was decided that a practitioner who only held a partial qualification could not recover for services by him in a capacity for which he held no legal qualification. A surgeon consequently could not recover charges for medicines supplied, unless they were ancillary to surgical treatment {Leman v. Fletcher, 1873, L. R. 8 Q. B. 319). In order to maintain an action the plaintiff must show that he was duly registered at the time when the services were rendered (Act of 1858, s. 22 ; Leinan v. Houseley, 1874, L. R. 10 Q. B. 66 ; Hoivarth v. Brearley, 1887, 19 Q. B. D. 306). Persons already on the register for one qualification may, however, subsequently have a higher degree, or additional qualification, inserted there in addition to or in substitution for the qualification previously registered (Act of 1858, s. 30). Medical diplomas granted in a British posses- sion or foreign country may also be registered, if they are recognised for the time being by the General Council as furnishing a sufficient guarantee of the possession of the requisite knowledge and skill for the efficient practice of medicine, surgery, and midwifery (Act of 1886, ss. 11-17). Possessors of diplomas for pro- ficiency in sanitary science, public health, or State medicine, granted after special examina- tion, which appear to deserve recognition, may have such diplomas entered in the register {ibid. s. 21). They derive therefrom no additional qualification for ordinary practice; but the diplomas are important with a view to obtain- ing certain appointments, such, for instance, as that of medical officer of health. Obtaining or attempting to obtain registration by false pretences is a misdemeanour punishable with twelve months' imprisonment (s. 39). Privileges of Registered Persons.—Only persons registered under the Acts are entitled to call themselves legally qualified medical practitioners (Act of 1858, s. 34). They only are eligible for various appointments {ibid. ss. 33-36), and they only can give valid certificates in cases where certificates of a medical pi'actitioner are required—e.g. for burial, etc. (s. 37). Following similar provisions in the earlier Acts with respect to members of different branches of the medical profession, the Act of 1858, s. 35, exempts persons duly registered VOL. VI from serving on all juries and inquests what- soever, and from serving all corporate, parochial, ward, hundred, and township offices, and from serving in the militia. The position of a registered practitioner, besides the privileges already alluded to, is further protected by penal consequences on those who without due authority assume the title. It is, as already stated, a misdemeanour to attempt to obtain registration without being qualified. Any person, moreover, " who shall wilfully and falsely pretend to be, or take or use the name or title of, a physician, doctor of medicine, licentiate in medicine and surgery, bachelor of medicine, surgeon, general practi- tioner or apothecary, or any name, title, addition, or description implying that he is registered or that he is recognised by law as a physician, or surgeon, or licentiate in medicine and surgery, or a practitioner in medicine, or an apothecary," is liable to a penalty of £20, which may be recovered summarily before magistrates (Act of 1858, s. 40). Fees of Witnesses.—In one respect, at any rate, the claim of medical practitioners to re- muneration for their services stands at present on an unsatisfactory footing. They are often required to give evidence in Courts of justice, and complaints are frequent of the inadequate recompense received for loss of time, and for out-of-pocket expenses besides. The scale of remuneration allowed varies in different Courts, but never errs on the side of liberality; and what may in theory be allowed is frequently reduced by taxing officers, who are practically irresponsible, inasmuch as there is no effective means of appealing from their decisions. The only cases in which adequate remuneration can be secured are those rare ones in which the wit- ness can make a bargain beforehand as to what his fees are to be ; and even then it is sometimes found that supposed bargains cannot be enforced. The hardest cases are those in which evidence has to be given in criminal Courts, where the witness may have to attend de die in diem for a fee not exceeding one guinea per day, without any allowance for the expense of pro- viding a substitute to attend to his practice during his absence on public duty. Power to fix the scale of fees allowable in criminal Courts was given to the Home Secretary in 1851 (14 & 15 Vict. c. 55, s. 5), and under it the scale now in force was issued in February 1858. At present it certainly requires revision. In Scotland a more liberal scale prevails. Fees for giving evidence before coroners are fixed on a rather more liberal scale by the Coroners Act of 1887. Women.—In former times women were con- sidered ineligible for the medical, as for other learned professions. A movement, however, in favour of their admission gained considerable force early in the latter half of the past290 MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO century. The Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, and most of the other bodies able to confer medical degrees, were averse to the admission of women to practise, but the Society of Apothecaries were willing to confer the right so far as they could legally do so. Whether they could, was considered doubtful. The doubt was, however, resolved, as far as they were con- cerned, in the year 1874 by the Apothecaries Act (37 & 38 Vict. c. 34, s. 5), which declares that "nothing in this Act shall deprive the society of such right as they now have, or relieve from any existing obligation, to admit women to the examinations required for certificates to practise as apothecaries," or to enter on their list of licentiates women who shall have satis- factorily passed such examinations. Similar powers to examine and admit women to practise were given in the following year to the College of Surgeons of England (38 & 39 Vict. c. 43, s. 2). And in 1876 it was enacted that the powers of every body entitled to grant qualifications for registration should extend to granting such qualifications " to all persons without distinction of sex " (39 &. 40 Vict. c. 41, s. 1). The exercise of the powers so given was not, however, made compulsory, and women were not given any right to take part in the government, manage- ment, or proceedings of the universities or corporations mentioned in the Medical Act, 1858. The Act of 1886 made no further altera- tion in this respect. Dentists.—Dentists were not legally recog- nised as a separate profession till the year 1878, but at best were licensed by the College of Surgeons, though many of them had no degree at all. By an Act of that year (41 & 42 Vict, c. 33) the Medical Council were entrusted with the duty of keeping a register of persons entitled to practise as dentists, and have with respect to it powers similar to those they have under the Medical Acts with respect to the medical register. This Act was in some respects altered and amended by the Medical Act 1886. Liability fob Negligence.—From the fact of medical attendance on a patient a contract of employment is presumed, and the practitioner— like other parties to a contract—may be liable for breach of it. From publicly professing any art there is an implied warranty that the person so professing is of skill reasonably competent for the task he undertakes (Harmer v. Cornelius, 1858, 5 C. B. N. S. 236). On this principle a medical practitioner is responsible in damages to his patient for gross negligence and want of skill in his treatment of him (Scare v. Prentice, 1807, 8 East, 352). But such negligence is often difficult to prove; and actions alleging it against medical practitioners are rarely successful. The mere fact that the treatment has not resulted in a cure is no proof of negli- gence ; and the opinion of experts that it was unskilful is generally answered by that of other experts who testify favourably to the course pursued. If the person who attends the patient should be unqualified, he is, like the qualified man, liable for his conduct, and equally bound to bring conapetent skill to the performance of the duty which he has undertaken, and liable to an action for negligence if he fails to do so (Huddoch V. Lozve, 1865, 4 F. & F. 519 ; Jones V. Fay, 1865, 4 F. & F. 525). The only difference between his case and that of the qualified man consists in this, that a Court or jury is much more likely to find that the treat- ment of which complaint is made was unskilful, and the plaintiff can therefore bring his action with a better chance of success. Criminal Responsibility.—From the nature of the cases to which their skill is directed, the medical profession are exposed to a special re- sponsibility from which the members of other professions are, as a rule, exempt. It is the legal duty of every person who undertakes to ad- minister medical or surgical treatment, or to do any other lawful act of a dangerous character, requiring special knowledge, skill, attention or caution, to employ in doing it a common amount of such knowledge, skill, attention, and caution (Stephen, Big. of Crim. Law, 217). If it can be shown that a qualified, or unqualified, practi- tioner has caused the death of his patient, through the lack of such knowledge, skill, attention, or caution, he may be convicted of manslaughter (B. v. Long, 1830, 4 Car. & P. 398). But evidence of negligence, which would be sufficient to be left to a jury in a civil action, is not necessarily suflficient to justify a conviction on a criminal charge. It should be shown that the accused acted recklessly, or with a criminal intent, or with such gross negligence as to come within the meaning of the word " felonious" (E. V. Bllis, 1834, 2 Car. & Kir. 470 ; i?. v. Webb, 1834; 1 Moo. & R. 405; K v. Makes, 1866, 4 F. & F. 920). Pharmacopceia. — The Council were also directed (Act of 1858, s. 54) to cause to be published, and from time to time republished and amended, a book containing a list of medicines and compounds, and the manner of preparing them, together with the true weights and measures by which they are to be prepared and mixed, and containing such other matter and things relating thereto as they should think fit, to be called the British Pharmacopoeia. By a subsequent Act of 1862 (25 & 26 Vict. c. 91), the exclusive right of publishing the Pharma- copoeia was vested in the General Council, and similar but diff'erent pharmacopoeias previously published by the Colleges of Physicians in England, Scotland, and Ireland were superseded. Notification op Disease. — The Infectious Diseases Notification Act, 1889 (52 <fe 53 Vict, c. 72), made general throughout the country provisions which previously had been adopted in various local Acts. It is in force in the Metro-291 MEDICINE; MEDICAL PRACTITIONER, LAW AS TO polis, and districts where it has been adopted by the local sanitary authority. Where it is in force, every medical practitioner attending on or called in to visit a patient suffering from an infectious disease—not being an inmate of a hospital for infectious cases—" shall forthwith, on becoming aware that the patient is suffering from an infectious disease, send to the medical officer of health of the district a certificate stating the name of the patient, the situation of the building," etc., where he is, and the infectious disease from which, in his opinion, the patient is suffering (s. 3). He is entitled to a small fee for every certificate duly sent in by him. MediCO-a—in compound words medico- means relating to medicine, e.g. medico-legal (relating to medicine and law), etc. MediCUS.—A physician or a surgeon. Medio-.—In compound words medio- means relating to the median plane, e.g. mediocarpal, mediofrontal, mediotarsal, etc. Mediterranean Fever. See Un- DULANT Fever. Mediterranean Sea. See Thera- peutics, Health Resorts {Riviera and other Mediterranean Resorts). Medium.—That by means of which any- thing acts, or in which it grows; so, specially, a substance or soil in which micro-organisms multiply. See Micro-Organisms ; Post-mortem Methods {Bacteriological Investigation). Medi US.—The middle finger. Medulla.—Literally, the marrow or pith, e.g. the medulla or central part of the kidney, the marrow of a long bone or of a nerve-fibre, etc. Medulla Oblongata.—The portion of the brain which is immediately continuous with the upper part of the spinal cord. See Brain, Physiology of {Anatomical); Brain, Tumours of ; Physiology, Nervous System {Medulla Oblongata). Medulla Ossium Rubra. —Red bone-marrow as used in pernicious anaemia, etc. Medullary. —Relating to the marrow or spinal cord, or resembling the medulla in appearance {e.g. medullary cancer). Medulla Spinalis.—The spinal cord. See Physiology, Nervous System {Spinal Cord); Spinal Cord. Med UHated. — Furnished with medulla or supplied with a medullary or myelin sheath, e.g. nerve-fibres; myelinated. Meg^a- or Megfalo-.—In compound words mega- or megalo (Gr ix.iya.%, great) signi- fies large—e.g. megalgia, severe pain; megalo- cytosis, the presence of large red cells in the blood ; megaloglossia, macrogiossia, etc. Meg^alobiastS. — Large nucleated red blood corpuscles; they are found in the bone- marrow of the foetus, but not in the normal blood or marrow of the adult; they reappear in anaemias,and in the conditions in which the blood- forming organs have reverted to a foetal type. See Blood {Corpuscular Elements, Megalohlasts). Meg'alOCardia.—Enlargement of the heart; cor hovinum. Meg'alOCephaly.—Abnormal enlarge- ment of file head, and, specially, leontiasis ossea {q.v.). Megi'alocolon or Meg^acolon.— Enlargement of the diameter of the colon with thickening of the wall, sometimes congenital. MegalOCOrnea.—Kerato-globus. See Cornea {Conical Cornea). Megl'alOCyte.—-A greatly enlarged red blood corpuscle (9 to 20 fi in diameter), contain- ing an increased or a diminished amount of haemoglobin—met with in anaemias, pernicious or simple {megalocytosis); a macrocyte. See Anemia, Pernicious {Stained Films). Meg^alodactyly.—Enlargement of one or more digits. See Macrodactyly. Meg^alOgl'astr 1 a.—Simple enlargement of the stomach ; if actual dilatation be present the name gast7-ectasis is used. Megl'alOgflOSSia. See Macroglossia. Meg^alomania. — The delirium of grandeur met with in general paralysis of the insane, or, more frequently, a form of mono- mania, without paralysis, in which the delirium or exaltation of grandeur is the leading symptom. See General Paralysis {Symptoms, Stadium Acutum); Paranoia {Synonyms). Meg'alomelia.—A teratological state in which the limbs are abnormally large. Megalophthalmos.—A condition of unnatural enlargement of the eyeballs. See Microphthalmos. Megl'alopsia.—A visual disturbance in which objects are seen larger than the reality; sometimes met with in hysteria {megalopsia hysterica). See Hysteria {Sensory Disorders). Meg;'astria. See Megalogastria ; In- digestion {Special Forms, Dilatation of the Stomach). Meg^rim.—A form of paroxysmal head- ache, usually unilateral, accompanied by nausea,MEGRIM 292 ocular disturbances, mental confusion, vomiting, etc.; migraine or hemicrania. See Indigestion {Special Fot^ms, Hemicrania); Migraine. Meibomian Cyst.—A tumour due to the retention of secretion in one or more of the Meibomian glands of the eyelids ; chalazion. See Eyelids, Affections of {Chalazion). iS/leibomian Glands.—The sebaceous glands embedded in the tissues of the eyelids; tarsal glands; named after H. Meibomius (1638-1700), who described them. See Eyelids, Affections of {Hordeolum or Stye ; Infarcts of Meibomian Glands). Meinbergf. See Balneology {Germany, Sulphur). IVieissner's Corpuscles. — End- bulbs, tactile corpuscles, or terminal bodies, oblong in shape, transversely striated, and situated specially in the skin of the tips of the fingers and toes. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Nerves, Tactile Corpuscles). IVieissner's Plexus. — A plexus of nerves found in the submucosa of the stomach and intestine. See Intestine, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {Structure of Alimentary Canal); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Anatomy, Minute Structure). Mel Depuratum. See Honey. Melsena. See also Children, Clinical Examination op {Ahnoi-mal Faeces) ; Gastro- intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diseases of Stomach, Gastric Ulcer) ; Gout (^Treatment, Meat and Hot Water Cure); Hemophilia {Dia- gnosis) ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium {HcBmorrhage from Portal System) ; Liver, Diseases of {Cirrhosis, Symp- toms) ; Liver, Diseases of {Portal Thrombosis); New-born Infant {Melcena Neonatorum); Pan- creas, Diseases of {Pa7icreatitis, Subacute); Typhoid Fever {Comjilications and Sequela;). Melcena {/xekav, black) is the name given to the black tar-like evacuations associated with the passage of blood by the bowels. Strictly speaking, the term is not applicable to cases of recent haemorrhage from the bowel, when the blood passed is of a bright-red colour; but as in practice every variation of intensity in colour and consistence is met with, it is probably better to make our remarks bear on the passage of blood in general, without regard to the actual colour of motions present. The black colour and viscid consistence of the mo- tions ordinarily present is due to decomposition changes in the extravasated haemoglobin, and the mixture of the extravasated blood and its disintegration products with the natural secre- tions in the alimentary tract. Under the in- fluence of these fluids haemoglobin is changed into a dark-brown substance—haematin, which in turn is acted on by the sulphuretted hy- drogen of the alimentary canal, thus giving rise to the black sulphide or iron. The passage of tarry stools therefore means that the blood has lain some time in the intestines; thus we find the typical viscid black stools most marked in lesions of the intestines situated high up in the abdominal contents. Hence the importance of a careful naked-eye examination of the stools in order to determine the probable site and nature of the lesion. Needless to say, the concurrent presence of mucus in excess, or of markedly foetid odour, or of gross alteration in the shape of the faecal mass, will form valuable contributory evidence for the diagnosis. Cause.—The most common cause of melaena is a simple ulcer of the stomach, duodenum, or lower end of oesophagus. Next in frequency we find the ulceration associated with the presence of malignant disease in the small or large intestines, dysentery, typhoid fever, and cirrhosis of the liver. Among rarer causes, tuberculosis of the bowels, grave heart disease, general vascular weakness, and haemorrhage of parasitic origin may be mentioned. The oc- currence of haemorrhage in infants, melaena neonatorum, calls for separate consideration (see " New-born Infant "). Diagnosis.—There is little or no difficulty in diagnosing the existence of melaena. The coloration of faeces induced by various drugs, e.g. bismuth, iron, etc., is similar, but the consist- ence and general appearance of the stools taken along with the history of the case readily clears up the diagnosis. Another point is worthy of mention. In patients on a meat and hot water diet {vide "Gout," vol. iii.), the stools may present an appearance closely allied to melaena. This is due to pigment changes in the haematin of the muscle, a condition quite distinct from that under consideration. Considerable diffi- culty is, however, frequently experienced in determining the nature and site of the lesion giving rise to the haemorrhage. To consider this point fully would lead us too far afield ; we can only summarise a few of the leading points of practical importance. By far the most frequent cause is a gastric ulcer, and in this category we include duodenal and oesophageal ulcers. Careful inquiry must be made into the antecedents of the case. The age, sex, and previous gastric history will assist. Can we difFenentiate between a gastric and duodenal ulcer? In answer, it is important to bear in mind that all cases of gastric ulcer are not accompanied nor followed by melaena, and further, melaena is met with in cases where htematemesis has not occurred : hence the great importance of a systematic examination of the stools. There are many cases where it is quite impossible to locate accurately the site of theHELENA 293 ulcer. It is probable that melsena is a more prominent feature in cases of duodenal ulceration than in those of gastric origin. For the same reason it is probable that meltena is more fre- quently present in those gastric cases when the ulcer is situated at or near the pylorus than in fundal cases. A sudden intestinal haemorrhage with a history of epigastric pains and previous gastralgic attacks is suggestive of duodenal ulceration. In adult or late life melsena may be a symptom in cirrhosis of the liver, and is probably seen in its most pronounced form in the earlier stages of the disease before the compensatory changes in the circulation have been established. This class of case has sometimes to be diagnosed by a process of exclusion, more assistance being gained from the clinical history and general appearance of the patient than from any definite gastric or hepatic physical signs. In these cases we must also have regard to the actual state of the vessel wall in the digestive system as elsewhere. The walls of the vessels—veins, capillaries, and arterioles—are doubtless in most instances much weakened through the influence of the same toxic substances that are inducing the cirrhosis. Quite apart from cases of cir- rhosis, however, the existence of this vascular weakness is undoubted, and it is probable that not a few cases of melsena, of otherwise unex- plained origin, are largely or entirely due to the existence of this vascular lesion here reported. In all doubtful cases, therefore, a careful study should be made into the whole cardiac vascular system of the patient. In connection with gastro-intestinal disease, as in other affections, the great importance of vascular affections is, as a rule, far too much ignored. In typhoid fever the hsemorrhage may be very scanty or very profuse. In the former case it is probably due to intense hypersemia, whereas in the latter it is due to actual erosion of a larger vessel. It is usually encountered in or about the third week of the illness, and is associated with separation of the slough. There is, of course, no special difficulty in the dia- gnosis ; the only cases that are likely to give trouble are those where a practitioner is called to a case in which the early symptoms of typhoid have been so slight as not to necessitate medical attendance. In this connection it is well to remember that even a fatal collapse may super- vene before the blood appears in the stool. In tuberculosis, melsena is by no means common. In a very few cases it may be one of the earliest symptoms. The amount of blood is visually small, but a few cases have been recorded where the hsemorrhage was fatal. Little more need be said about the recurrence of hsemorrhage from the bowel in such conditions as dysentery, purpura, heart disease, pernicious ansemia, carcinoma of the intestines, or intestinal parasites. If we bear in mind the possibility of these various causes, a systematic examination of each case will, as a rule, suffice to establish the diagnosis. In every case care should be taken to exclude any purely local cause in the region of the anus and rectum, and at the same time we must bear in mind the possibility that the blood passed was really swallowed, e.g. from the pharynx or nose, in which case it has, of course, no special significance. This latter point is specially true of cases occurring in infancy and childhood. The condition of melsena neonatorum is elsewhere discussed. It will suffice here to draw attention to the fact that we must at all times ascertain that the blood passed has not been swallowed at or after birth, or sucked in through a fissure or otherwise from the breast of the mother. Prognosis.—The prognosis naturally varies with the cause. Perhaps the most important point pertains to the cause referred to when the occurrence of mehena is well marked, and even for a time persistent; cases when the diagnosis may lie between an early carcinoma, or an early hepatic cirrhosis (where even a likely history may be wanting), but where the course of time clearly indicates that neither of these are cor- rect, and we are forced to conclude that we are really dealing with a vascular lesion as a primary cause. A knowledge of the existence of such cases may save us from giving an unduly un- favourable prognosis in certain cases where the clinical picture is not distinctive. It might be added that an exactly parallel picture is some- times afforded in hsematemesis. The writer has seen a case with considerable hsematemesis, followed later by melsena, in which the clinical picture presented almost justified a diagnosis of carcinoma. Any suspicion of cirrhosis, as judged by the usual cause, could not reasonably be excluded. This patient recovered very slowly, and in fifteen months she was nearly as well as she was before the hsematemesis. She was the subject of distinct arterial disease, with slight cardiac weakness. Treatment.—The treatment will vary with the cause, but the general lines of treatment are the same in all cases. Rest the part; complete rest in bed, with a light, non-irritating diet, are essentials. Medicinal measures are not necessary, but are valuable in special cases. The usual styptics are of service, preference being perhaps given to hammamelis, ferric compounds, turpentine. In grave cases opium is the best astringent, and its beneficial action is both a direct and indirect one; but external measures are of service in some cases, preference being given to the application of cold. Care should be taken in the exhibition of astringent enemata, and special care taken in their administration. As the surgical treatment of hsematemesis has in experienced hands given most gratify- ing results in a class of cases where formerly294 HELENA recovery did not occur, it is possible that the future may provide indications justifying re- course to surgical measures in the treatment of a few cases of melsena. (See also " Hsema- temesis," " Stomach," etc.) Melagfra..—Pain in the limbs. Melaleuca Leucadendron.—The plant from the leaves of which cajuput oil {Oleum Cajuputi) is obtained. See Cajuput Oil. Melalg'ia.—Pain in the limbs. See Lung, Tuberculosis of (Complications, Nervoiis, Neuritis). Melam.—Tricyanogen diamide (CgHgNu), a product of the combustion of mercuric thiocyanate, as is seen in the scientific toy known as Pharaoh's Serpents. Melansemia. — The presence of dis- integrated hsemoglobin in the blood. See Malaria {Definition). Melanag'Og'Ue.—A drug causing dark- coloured motions from the bowels; a medicine supposed to be able to expel "black bile." Melanchofiai See Adolescent In- sanity {Insanities of Adolescence, Character); Alcoholic Insanity {Cases characterised by Melancholia); Brain, Tumours op {Mental Disturbance); Chorea {Choreic Insanity, Agitated Melancholia); Climacteric Insanity {Clinical Forms, Melancholia); Epileptic Insanity {Epileptic Melancholia); General Paralysis {Syyiq^toms); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses, Insanity); Insanity, its Nature and Symptoms {Ty2)es of Episodic Insanity); Meno- pause {Climacteric Melancholia, Treatment); Labour, Operations {Induction of Premature Labour, Indications); Pregnancy, Affections AND Complications of {Nervous System); Puerperium, Pathology of {Puerperal In- sanities) ; Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Melancholia); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Symptomatology, Remote Symptoms); Suicide; Uterus, Associated Insanity. Melanin. See Pigments op the Body and Excreta {The Melanins); Physiology, Tissues {Pigment Cells); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Nature of Pigments). Melanism.—A condition in which the natural colour of the skin is darkened by the deposition of pigment, as in Addison's Disease, in phthisis, and after the prolonged use of nitrate of silver; it is opposed to albinism. Melano-.—In compound words melano- signifies pigmented or dark coloured, e.g. melano- sarcoma (a pigmented sarcoma), melanocyte (a leucocyte containing pigment granules), melano- scirrhus (a scirrhous cancer showing pigmenta- tion), melanoiyathy (a disease in which the de- position of pigment is a characteristic sign), etc. MelanOChroi.—A variety of mankind characterised by smooth and dark hair, and a pale complexion (Huxley). Melanoderma or Melano- dermia.—A morbid condition in which there is an excess of pigment in the cutaneous tissues. See Pregnancy, Intra-utebine Diseases {Pig- mentary Anomalies of the Skin). Melanog'en. — The substance which yields melanin. See Pigments op the Body AND Excreta {Melanins in Urine). Melanoma.—A tumour containing dark pigment (melanin). See Tumours of the Skin {Melanotic Sarcoma). Me lanoplakia.— Pigmentation of patches of the mucous membrane of the mouth, seen in certain diseases. Melanosis.—The morbid deposition of black pigment in a tissue or organ of the body; it is a term somewhat widely and loosely used to include xeroderma pigmentosum, keloid, melanotic sarcoma, anthracosis or coal-miner's lung, etc. See Tumours ; Xeroderma Pigment- osum ; Lungs, Pneumonokoniosis ; etc. MelanothanatOS.—Plague (literally. Black Death). See Plague. Melanuria. — The presence of dark- coloured pigments in the urine. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Colour, Pigments). Melasma. — Any disease characterised by dark or black coloration of the skin, e.g. Addison's Disease {suprarenal melasma), chloasma uterinum, etc. See Adrenal Glands, Addison's Disease ; Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions OF {Melasmic Leucopathia). Melezitose. — A sugar (CigHgjOjg -t- SHgO) obtained from the larch. Melicera or Meliceris. — A cyst containing a honey-like substance, such as a steatoma or an atheroma ; also, the honey-like contents of a distended joint. Mel i lot.—A leguminous plant {Melilotus ofiicinalis), the dried flowers of which used to be employed in making plasters, poultices, etc. Melioform.—A disinfectant liquid pre- paration, consisting of formaldehyde, acetate of aluminium, etc., which can be used for the hands, for instruments, and as a gargle. Melitose or Melitriose.—A sugar obtained from eucalyptus; a triose yielding galactose, glucose, and fructose on hydrolysis.295 MELLA MellSi.—Mixtures containing some drug incorporated with clarified honey, e.cj. mel boracis. Mellin'S Food.—A well-known infants' food. See Infant Feeding (Proprietary Foods, Completely Malted Cereal Foods). MellltiC Acid. — A hexabasic acid, C6(COOH)6 or C,,R,0,,. Mellituria.—Diabetes mellitus (q.v.). MeiomeluS. — A teratological type in which an accessory limb or part of a limb is inserted upon another (normal) limb, e.g. a double hand or double foot (dichirus, dipus). Melon Seeds. See Cucurbits Semina PRiEPARATA. Melon-Seed Bodies.—Corpora ory- zoidea. See Joints, Diseases of {Pathological Anatomy, Contents of Tuberculous Joints). Melopla.Sty.—The plastic surgery of the cheek (Gr. iJ.rj\ov, the cheek). See Cheek, Fissure of (Ti-eatment); Palate (Rare-Lip). Meltzer'S Sign. — The postponed swallowing sound heard on auscultation at the side of the ensiform cartilage in cases of marked oesophageal narrowing or occlusion. Membrcincl.—A membrane or sheet of tissue, e.g. the membrana adventitia (outer coat of a blood-vessel), the membrana germinativa (the blastoderm), the membrana pupillaris (the membrane which closes the pupil in the foetus), the membrana propria (the basement membrane of mucous surfaces), the membrana granulosa of the Graafian follicle, the membrana tympani, etc. See Ear, Examination of (Anatomy); Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane ; Genera- tion, Female Organs of (Ovary). Mennbra.ne.—A sheet-like piece of tissue existing normally in the body (mucous, serous, etc.), or a morbid formation found in certain dis- eases, such as diphtheria, dysmenorrhoea, etc. See Axilla (Anatomy, Costo-coracoid Membrane); Diphtheria (Morbid Anatomy); Labour, Physi- ology OF (Rupture of the Membranes); Meninges OP the Cerebrum ; Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage (Unavoid- able Hcemorrhage, Pupture of the Membranes); etc. Memory in Health and Disease. Definition ...... 295 Physical Basis of Memory . . . 295 Fixation in Memory .... 298 Reproductive Revival in Memory . 299 Recognition ...... 299 Memory in Disease .... 300 Classification of Defects of Memory . 300 Defects in Fixation .... 300 Defects due to Non-Revival . .301 Defects due to Non-Recognition after Revival 303 Hypermnesia or Excitations of Memory 303 See also Alcololic Insanity (Clinical Types, Defect of Memory); Aphasia ; Brain, Tumours OF (Symptoms, Mental Disturbance); Eclampsia (Symptoms, Prodi^omal); General Paralysis (Sym2)toms); Hysteria ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Index of Mental Fu7ictions, Memcrry); Mind, Education of the (Memory); Pellagra (Symptoms, Mental); Senile Insanity (Loss of Memory); Senile Insanity (Dementia); Typhoid Fever (Symptoms, Nervous System); Uncon- sciousness. Memory, according to Sir William Hamilton, is the power of retaining knowledge in the mind, but out of consciousness. This definition is one which does not seem to have been universally adopted. Some writers on neurology and psychology use the word " memory" in a much less general sense than the above. Herbert Spencer, for instance, uses memory as conveying almost the same idea as "recollection," whilst Sir William Hamilton states that recollection is the function of a totally different faculty. Memory and recollec- tion, according to Hamilton, are two different faculties, whilst Spencer uses the word memory as interchangeable with recollection. Hamilton says that " memory, strictly so denominated, is the power of retaining knowledge in the mind, but out of consciousness. I say retaining know- ledge in the mind, but out of consciousness, because bringing the retentum out of memory into consciousness is the function of a totally different faculty—recollection." For our purpose it will be much more con- venient to use the word memory in a more general sense than that implied in the definition of Hamilton, or in the sense of being equivalent to recollection. We will rather consider that Hamilton's idea of memory is only a part of our more general conception of memory, and that in that conception we also include his faculty of recollection. We would therefore include in our conception of memory the three acts which, accoi'ding to Ribot, memory includes, viz. : (1) the preservation of certain states; (2) their reproduction ; (3) their recognition. The conception of memory in this article does not limit our consideration of the subject to a discussion of those parts of the nervous system which are believed to be the substratum of the state which we call consciousness. Our con- ception of the physical changes and processes concerned in the manifestation of consciousness and in the higher psychical states is still im- perfect, and if we limited ourselves to a con- sideration of those processes alone we would get very little light thrown on the subject of memory.296 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE But if, as I believe, the same principle of action holds in the higher parts of the nervous system, still so imperfectly understood, as exists in the lower parts of the nervous system, now more perfectly understood, we are able to get a better idea of the physical basis of memory. As Ferrier states: "We have no proof of subjectivity or modifications of consciousness apart from the action of the cerebral hemispheres. But we have no reason to believe that anything is superadded or that the action of the cortical centres is of a different order from that of the most simple nervous apparatus, but rather that between the simplest reflex action and the most complex cerebral process there is a continu- ous unbroken gradation. Why consciousness should arise only in correlation with the activity of the cerebral hemispheres is a question which has not yet received any satisfactory answer." Memory, therefore, may be conscious or it may be subconscious or automatic. The nerve- cells in the lowest level of the nervous system have as truly a memory as those in the cortex of the cerebrum, and the same type of nervous process takes place in each. The fact on which memory is based may be stated thus :—When a nerve-cell performs its function a condition is produced which renders it more liable to functionate in the same way again. The mere performance of its function, therefore, has altered the cell in such a way that it is easier for it to again perform its function. There is a retentum, a something retained in the cell—the nature of which we do not understand—but it is probably a molecular change of a biochemical nature. As nerve impulses, like every other force, follow the lines of least resistance, so this change brought about in the cell by one nerve impulse produces a result making it easier for a similar nerve impulse to pass in the same way. And the oftener a nerve impulse is repeated, the more readily does the nerve-cell functionate in the same way. The nerve-cell has therefore retained something from the previous nerve impulse, and this something is truly a memory, whether it is at a level of the nervous system giving rise to a conscious state, or at a lower level, as in the spinal cord, such as one sees in an unconscious reflex action. Let us take the lower motor neuron as an example. When cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord are brought into action a nerve impulse passes down the axis-cylinder or nerve-fibre to the muscle, and the result is a contraction of the muscle. If this process is repeated several times the muscle not only contracts on each occasion, but it contracts probably more readily, and after frequent and regular contraction the contractions become more forcible because of a process of hypertrophy of the muscle, provided the health and nutrition of the muscle are good. Action of the muscle therefore leads to growth and hypertrophy of the muscle. In this case stimulation of the muscle-cell not only produces contraction but also a result which is more permanent—that is, there is a residuum left from each contraction, and this residuum is in reality a memory, and it will be noticed that it is almost certainly a residuum depending on nutrition. But not only does the muscle contract more readily and more forcibly, but the nerve-cell also performs its function with greater efficiency, and probably with less ex- penditure of nervous energy after being called into action on several occasions. A residuum of some sort must here also have been left or produced in the nerve-cell and its axis-cylinder, and this residuum is also truly a memory. The same thing occurs in the higher neurons— when the neuron above the cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord is brought into action on each repetition of such action the cell be- comes, as it were, more expert, showing that a something is left or produced in the cell on each occasion it performs its function. Again this is a memory. And so one might take every cell of the nervous system, and it would be found that as a result of each action of the cell an effect is produced which is to some extent a permanent effect. In so far as the effect is permanent the cell retains the memory of its previous action. We may here state that as the memory of muscular action in muscles depends on nutrition, so it is almost certain that memory in nerve-cells depends also on nutrition ; and this is an important fact when the disorders of memory come to be considered. What I have already referred to may be con- sidered to be the first memories which are left or produced in the cells by their action. The action of the cells is possible, because of their anatomical and physiological relationship to each other — that is to say, the muscle contracts because the nerve stimulus is able to reach it by the anatomical arrangement of the nerve- fibril ending in it, and the impulse is able to leave the nerve - cell in the anterior cornu, because of the nerve impulse reaching that cell from cells in the higher neuron, or from cells at the same level on the sensory side in the spinal cord, as is seen in a reflex action, be- cause of the anatomical arrangement of the cells. According to the theory of evolution this physiological arrangement has probably resulted through a long period of time from the cells being acted on by each other through many generations. In this sense, therefore, the physio- logical arrangement may itself be considered an inherited memory. If one takes the nerv- ous system of a child at birth it will be seen that it consists of a large number of nerve- cells, nerve-fibres, and other structures which may be considered to be in a stable condition. Each nerve-cell has no memory, or, as I have said, its only memory is its anatomical arrange-297 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE ment and physiological capacity, which may be said to be its inherited memory. When it per- forms its function for the first time a permanent effect is produced in it—its first memory. This memory, however, has a tendency to be blotted out unless the action of the cell is repeated, and each time the action is repeated the new condi- tion becomes more stable. It may be stated, therefore, that nerve-cells have always a ten- dency to return to a state of stability : hence the cell, as it were, has always a tendency to forget. This tendency to forgetfulness is, how- ever, prevented by a repetition of the action: hence action makes the new condition, the memory, more stable, until a state is reached when the memory may be said to be permanent or stable—^in other words, organised. We have hitherto been considering the simple action of single cells, but the same principle applies to the more complicated processes of the nervous system. As is well known, the cells in the anterior cornua of the spinal cord are not only in physiological and anatomical relationship with the cells on a higher level in the nervous system, but they are also in physiological and anatomical relationship with some of the cells on the same level in the spinal cord, and more especially with the sensory cells on the same level, so that nerve impressions received by the sensory nerves can be reflected into the motor route, and a contraction of a muscle produced by stimulation of a sensory nerve—a reflex action. Nerve impulses pass from the sensory to the motor route more easily the oftener they are repeated; hence we have a memory whose physical basis is a simple associa- tion between a sensory and a motor cell. Pass- ing up higher in the nervous system we have the possibility of nerve impulses passing from the sensory cells in the cortex to the motor cells in the cortex; and following the law, the oftener they pass the less difficulty they have in passing, and the greater tendency they have to pass. Here again is a memory depending for its existence on the anatomical and physio- logical arrangement of the cells and fibres in the cortex and other parts of the nervous system. If the result of nerve impressions re- ceived by the sensory cells of the cortex is the production of a complicated movement by the passing of nerve impulses not to one but to a series of cells in the motor cortex, the result is that similar impressions will have greater tendency to pass in the same direction on each occasion on which they are repeated, and a similar movement will be produced more readily on each occasion. This is simply equivalent to saying that the oftener a complicated move- ment is repeated the easier and more expert it becomes. This of course is well known, but perhaps it is not so well known that it depends on the fact that the nerve mechanism concerned in it has retained the memory of previous action. On first performance of any action a person feels awkward, but on each repetition it becomes easier, until there is no difficulty in the per- formance of an expert action. As with the action of a simple cell, the complexus of cells act together in a manner becoming gradually more and more certain until a condition is reached when the action may be considered almost perfect, the nearly stable or organised condition previously referred to. If, however, the same movement is for a long time not repeated the cells have a tendency not to act so exactly together; the expert action becomes gradually lost. The cells, as it were, have forgotten ; memory of the movement has been nearly lost, and it has to be learned over again. According to Ribot, when memory has become stable or organised we suppose not only a modification of the nervous elements, but the formation between them of associations de- termined for each particular event, the estab- lishment of certain dynamic associations, whicli by repetition become as stable as the primi- tive anatomical connections. Hitherto I have been taking no account of the higher cells in the cerebrum, those concerned with volition— the emotions, reason, etc.; but the same principle applies to them, only the apparatus concerned in these processes is probably more complicated than those concerned in simple sensation and motor action. A complicated movement requiring the action of several muscles, and therefore of a complicated series of cells, at first is difficult to bring about, and in its production the will accompanied by con- sciousness requires to be very distinctly called into action. Gradually, however, the exercise of the will is required less and less, and con- sciousness less and less accompanies it, until the complicated action passes gradually from being a conscious to become a subconscious one. Expert actions, therefore, are at first conscious; but through being repeated they may become subconscious, and this results from the fact that the nervous mechanism retains the memory of its previous action. In the lives of each individual actions which are conscious are gradually becoming subconscious from the daily repetition of them. A child at first has difficulty in learning to walk ; but, as is well known, a person may walk miles without even being conscious of the complicated movements required. He may walk up and down a stair without being conscious of the different movements he is per- forming. He may ride miles on a bicycle with- out being conscious of the complicated move- ments required to balance himself, to steer, and to pedal his machine. These complicated move- ments have become subconscious or automatic, and are regulated by the sensory impressions received through the sensory and special sense nerves passing to and regulating the proper motor nerve apparatus, without calling into298 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE action the nervous apparatus concerned in active volition, or in the production of the conscious state. This is possible by reason of a law which may be called a law of organic suggestion, by means of which any number of a series of com- plicated acts suggests the next. It depends, however, on the memory of the previous action. To ilhistrate this law let us suppose that sensory cell A for a particular expert action calls up the action of motor cell 1, that 1 calls up 2, and 2 calls up 3, 3 calls up 4, and so on—on each stimulation of A cells 1, 2, 3, and 4 are called up in their order, and the expert action is produced. A constant result is produced by the same primary impulse. This is the result when the action has become stable and has become completely automatic—perfect memory ; but an action which has become automatic may be imperfectly performed by reason of the fact that it may be confused with another action very like it, but not exactly similar. For instance, sensory cell A may for this action require to call up 2 instead of 1, 2 call up 3, and 3 call up 4—or the arrangement may be reversed, viz., A may reqviire to call up 4, 4 call up 3, 3 call up 2, and 2 call up 1, and so on, the result being that sometimes cell A may call up the wrong motor cell, and another movement closely resembling the movement intended is produced. One sees this in a marked form in the pronouncing of words beginning with the same letter and closely resembling each other; letters are sometimes transposed, as in pro- nouncing the word "burn" a person may say "brun." Familiar examples will occur to readers in the catch phrases which are sometimes repeated rapidly for amusement, such as " Peter Piper picked a peck of pepper." In his haste the individual transposes letters and syllables. This fact shows us that, as like movements are apt to be substituted for each other, one of the best ways to displace one automatic memory is to substitute one like it for it. Displace an old bad habit by means of a new good one closely resembling it. In an early part of this paper I stated that a perfect memory consisted of three distinct acts, viz.—(1) Preservation of certain states, i.e. fixation of the memory in the cell. (2) Repro- duction of the same states, i.e. revival in memory. (3) Recognition of these states, i.e. localising them in tissue. Let us consider each of these processes in order :— I. Fixation in Memory.—As I have previously stated, fixation consists in the production of an effect on a nerve-cell or groups of cells, which to a certain extent is a permanent effect. When these cells are acted on in the same way, as previously, they are apt to functionate in the same way. This applies not only to the motor, but also to the sensory cells, and to the com- plicated series of cells on a higher level, the more truly psychical and associational cells. There are four essentials of a perfect fixation of a memory, viz.—first, the health and nutrition of the cells must be good; second, the impres- sion must be of sufficient intensity; third, it must be of sufficient duration; fourth, it must be accompanied by attention. The first depends on the state of the cell; the second and third, on the nature and quality of the impression or nerve impulse; and the fourth, on the attention or most active consciousness of the individual. With reference to the first, I have already pointed out how necessary it is to have the cell in a healthy state if memory is to be good, because the process of acquiring a memory is itself a nutritional process. The second and third may be taken together, because when impressions last a certain length of time they are made up of more than one separate impres- sion, and the result of the impressions depends on the sum of the individual impressions. Duration therefore reduces itself to the intensity of the sum of the separate impi-essions. But duration and intensity are very much aided by the exercise of attention. The process of paying- attention to anything is still very imperfectly understood : but, as is well known, in our wakeful state there is constantly passing through our mind a wave, on the crest of which is either the abstract thought, the perception, the con- ception, etc., which is engaging our immediate attention; whilst on the receding part of the wave are the thoughts, the perceptions, and conceptions receding gradually out of our attention; and in the front of the wave, the thoughts, perceptions, and conceptions which are gradually coming into our attention. What is on the crest one second is receding the next, but we are still conscious of its presence, although it gradually gets more dim and obscure. If this were not so, our wakeful state would have no continuity. It would be made up of isolated states of consciousness. Attention, therefore, in order to secure fixation in the memory, is almost essential for voluntary recollection, as those engaged in the education of children know so well. Whether it is possible for a person to have a memory fixed without attention at all is doubtful. Several cases have been recorded where very little attention could have been paid to the original impression. Taine quotes M. Maury, who says : " There often occurred to my mind, without my knowing why, three proper names, each accompanied by the name of a town in France. One day I came across an old newspaper and commenced to read it for want of anything better to do. Among the advertisements I saw one of a depot of mineral waters with the names of the druggists who sold them in the principal towns of France. There I found my three unknown names, with those of the three towns with which they were connected in my mind. All was explained ! My memory, which299 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE is excellent for words, had preserved a recol- lection of these associated names, on which my eyes must have rested while I was looking (as had happened two months previously) for the address of the depot of mineral waters. But the circumstance had gone out of my mind without the recollection being wholly effaced. Now, certainly, I could not have paid much attention in so rapid a glance." But it may be stated that generally when no attention is paid to an impression, the memory of it does not become fixed. All know that one may pass along a road or street, and not be able after- wards to recall a single person or thing one passed, although the eyes must have rested on many persons and things. On the other hand, impressions may become very firmly fixed in the memory, and usually, if not always, this firm fixation in the memory results from the attention having been intensely fixed on the cause of the impression. A beautiful view, an interesting book, a good story, a striking illustration, get all fixed in the memory readily, and this fact is taken advantage of every day in the education of children and others. II. Reprodtiction or Revival of the Previous Impression.—A more important thing, however, than the mere fixation of a memory is the fact that such memory can be revived, and such revival can take place in several ways. It may be revived either by an act of will, or by a similar impression or association of the original impression. What takes place in the nerve- cells or other nerve elements when a memory is revived? When such a revival takes place by a repetition of the same sensory impulse, probably we have a repetition of the same process in the same nerve elements. Does the same thing occur when one revives a memory in ideation only, when, for instance, one thinks of an object, such as a picture, which he may have seen at a previous time ? There can be little doubt that there is here also a repetition of the same nerve processes in the same nerve elements as took place when the picture was originally before the eyes. This has been well expressed by Bain, who says that "it is quite demonstrated that the impression renewed occupies exactly the same parts and in the same manner as in the primitive impression. As an example, experiment shows that the persistent idea of a brilliant colour fatigues the optic nerve. If one thinks intensely on a coloured object with the eyes closed, and then opens the eyes and looks at a white surface, the coloured object is seen in the complementary colour." This fact, Wundt says, proves that the nervous operation is the same in the two cases, viz., in the primary perception and in the revival of the same in the memory. This has a bearing on the question of the seeing of objects and persons who are not present, and the hearing of voices when there is no one near to produce the voice. In fact, it is possible in this way to explain many of the experiences and experiments of spiritualists. In visuals, for instance, it is possible for a visual memory to be so intensely and completely raised by the same nerve processes in the same nerve elements as revived the original impression of, for instance, a person long since dead, that the idea of the person may be so complete as to appear to the individual actually existing before his eyes. This is the explanation of illusions and halhicinations which occur in fevers and in diseased states of the brain; but that such phenomena occur also in apparently healthy persons there can be little doubt. I will later refer to this under Hypermnesia or Excitation of Memory. Let me emphasise the fact that revival of a memory takes place not only by the recur- rence of the previous sensation or action, and by an act of will, but frequently by the revival of memories which were associated with the original memory. One sensation or action becomes associated with other sensations or actions for many reasons. It may be because of a resemblance between them, because of a contrast or dissimilarity, because each has an association with some other sensation or action, although not hitherto with each other. There may, in fact, be many causes for one sensation or action becoming associated with or linked to another, but one of the most important causes for _ associations is that the original im- pressions occurred at or about the same time. When two nerve actions occur at or about the same time, the revival of the one at any future time is apt to be followed by the revival of the other. This would show that, when two nerve- cells or groups of cells perform their function at or about the same time, they are apt to have dynamic associations formed between them. The more associations, therefore, a memory has, the more apt it is to be revived. This explains how proper names and concrete nouns are more apt to escape the memory than the other parts of speech—a point to be referred to later. As the more frequently and more intensely a memory has been fixed the more likely is it to remain permanent and become organised, so the more frequently it is revived the more easily it can be revived. III. Recognition, as Ribot states, consists in locating the memory in time. When we recog- nise an old memory we really locate it in time, and we do this by mentally determining its relationship to the present time. In fact, we could not have any idea of time if it were not for memory ; all would be present; we would have no past, nor could we anticipate the future. We not only locate our memories of events by mentally determining their relationship in time to the present, but each of us have in our past300 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE what Ribot calls points de i epl;re, which are the sort of milestones in our past lives ; and not only in our past lives, but if we know history we have points de repere in history, and between such milestones or " points of reference" we locate different events. These milestones are not chosen by ourselves : they stamp themselves on our consciousness by reason of their intensity or the intensity of their associations—in other words, they are tlie most outstanding events or memories in our histories ; they are the memories most stably or intensely fixed. As we live our lives, having one experience after another, the memories of these different experiences do not become equally fixed. Some pass more or less rapidly into oblivion, others remain more or less permanently. The most vivid of the latter become the milestones or points of reference, and each is linked to or associated with the other. If every memory was equally well fixed and equally easily revived and recalled, then, in order to recall something that happened twenty years ago, it would be necessary to recall all the events that happened before twenty years ago if one took them in order from birth to then, or the events that have happened from the present time to twenty years ago if the order was in the inverse order. It will therefore be seen that to have a good useful memory it is necessary to at least temporarily forget, otherwise time would not be sufficient for us : we would require to live and relive our lives over and over again. Forgetful- iiess is therefore an essential of a good memory. It is on record that persons who have had such a well-developed and retentive memory that on reading a long document or piece of poetry over once they could repeat it from beginning to end, found that such a memory was more of a nuisance than an advantage, because in order to recall anything in the middle they had to repeat from the beginning. Each part was equally well fixed in the memory, and there were no points of reference. In order to remember we require, therefore, to forget. In order to have a good, healthy, useful memory, therefore, it is necessary to fix, revive, and recognise the important experiences or memories and to allow the useless and less important experiences to temporarily or permanently pass into oblivion. The above are the accompani- ments of a well-developed, vigorous nervous system in health. A marked departure from this standard may either mean a less highly- developed nervous system, or if the individual has at one time attained to this standard, the departure means want of health, a defect or disease affecting memory. Let us now consider unhealthy memory or memory in disease. Memory in Disease From what I have already said it will be seen that there is not one faculty of memory and that there is not one seat of memory, but that there are memories and many seats of memories ; in fact, each cell and each group of cells and their associations have their own special memories, and as these cells and groups have their special seats in the brain, so special memories have special seats. But some memories may be the result of the association of so many cells and groups of cells that they have elements in almost every part of the cerebrum. Diseases, however, which pick out and destroy special parts of the brain may destroy the memories located in these special parts. Such forms of amnesia are referred to under the article on " Aphasia" (vol. i. p. 232), and I have no intention here to discuss these different forms. Memory from the alienist point of view has also been referred to under the articles on insanity. I wish, however, here to discuss the clinical defects and disorders of memory from the point of view of memory. The diseases and disorders of memory might be classified in many ways. The form of classi- fication I wish to adopt is given below, and it will be seen that the method is based on the three different processes on which every com- plete memory consists, viz., fixation, revival, and recognition. ra Defective nutrition in nerve-cells. \ Locah^' I. Defects 6 Defects due to want of intensity of the impression, in flxa- c Defects due to want of duration of the impression, tion of. d Defects due to insufficient attention to the im- the me- pression. mory. e Defects due to insufficient association. / Congenital defects, i.e. want of anatomical and physiological capacity. II Defects Non-revival because of insufficient fl.\ation and association. due to non - re- vival of the nie-( mory w h i c li hasbeen fixed. < Temporary. -(Periodic. (Permanent. /Temporary. \ Permanent. h Destruction of me- I (1) Complete, mories fixed or in I fixed'°''''^^°^'''^'°^ I Partial. 1(3) Progressive. c Difficulty in reviving by will—recollection. \d Difficulty in reviving by similar impression. III. De- fects due to want of recog- ^Defective association, n i t i o n after re- vival. IV. Hypermnesia or excitation of memory, I. Defects in Fixation of the Memory (a) Defective Nutrition in Nerve-Cells.—It has already been stated that memory depends on nutrition, and it would therefore follow that where there is defective nutrition there would be defective memory. It is well known that the memories of early youth remain more persistently and are more vivid than those of later life, the explanation being that they are deeper or more decidedly fixed in the cells because of the more vigorous nutritive processes in early life. The memories of old age are easily effaced, especially when the vital powers are declining rapidly. The old man forgets what occurred yesterday or even an hour or two ago, but he remembers the scenes of his boyhood with great vividness. Similarly, when301 MEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE the body is in a weak condition, as in the debility of fevers and other reducing conditions, the memories become imperfectly fixed, and soon disappear or are revived with difficulty. This defect, due to want of nutrition, may be general, affecting all the higher memories in the brain, or it may be local, as when there is any local brain disease due to loss of nutrition, such as is seen in thrombosis and embolism, producing softening of areas, or where the circulation in patches is enfeebled, due to thickened and calcareous vessels. In these conditions, alongside of the defective fixation of the present memories one often finds active revival of early memories. The weak decrepit old soldier lives his battles o'er again. (b) Defects due to ivant of intensity and (c) want of duration of the imjoression may be dismissed in a few words, as they are concerned more with the character of the impression than in reality with the defect of memory. It may be stated, however, that defective quality of, as well as defective nutrition in, the cells may require a more intense or prolonged series of impressions than where there is better quality and nutrition. {d) Defects due to Insufficient Attention.—-It may be stated that it is almost always necessary that attention be paid to an impression if it is to be fixed properly, and therefore to be recalled later. Some persons have more powers of concentration and of attention than others, and in them the memories are more apt to become fixed; but in disease one often sees defects in attention. In debility, for instance, it is more difficult for a patient to concentrate attention on anything than in health. It is well known by teachers that some children are defective in attention, and it has been shown that obstruction of the nasal passages by adenoid or other growths is accompanied frequently by loss in the powers of attention. Similarly, in some cases of chorea one sees a jerky condition of mind evidenced in the frequent and rapid changes of attention from one thing to another, without the child appar- ently being able to keep up sustained attention on any particular thing. (e) Defects due to Insufficient Association.— These are very important defects, because, as is well known, every system for the improvement of the memory is based on the fact that associa- tion is one of the most important essentials of a good memory. Increase in the number and quality of the associations of each memory fixes it more permanently and makes it more easily revived. (/) Congenital Defects.—These are due to some anatomical and physiological incapacity, as is seen in idiots, imbeciles, and persons of weak minds. It is quite possible that some persons, with otherwise a well-developed brain and nervous system, may be defective in one particular group of memories. One sees such a condition in deaf mutes, where, from defective physiological capacity, there are no auditory memories. Similarly, other persons may have few musical memories from having a defective cerebral mechanism for the reception of music. It is well known that although persons of weak mind, as imbeciles, may be defective in their mind in general, they are often specially well developed in some special group of memories, such as the musical. II. Defects due to Non-Revival of the Memory which has been fixed (a) Non-Revival because of Insufficietit Fixa- tion and Association. — These have already been considered under Group 1. For whatever reason a memory may be insufficiently fixed, whether from want of nutrition in the cells, insufficient intensity and duration of the im- pression, insufficient attention on the part of the individual, or insufficient association of the impression, the result is the same : it is more difficult to recall the memory for the second time. (5) Destruction of Memories which have been fixed or are in Process of being fixed.—These disorders of memory may be divided into—(1) complete, (2) partial, (3) progressive. (1) Comjilete, in this connection, does not refer to all the memories in the nervous system, but to all the higher memories, viz., those associated with the conscious state. We may divide them into—(a) temporary, {b) periodic, and (c) permanent. (a) Temporary Comj}lete Loss of Memory.— We find this condition in various diseases and disorders of the nervous system. The best example of it is seen in the unconscious state, whether that unconsciousness be due to disease or to injury. It may vary in duration from the fraction of a second to several days. The causes of unconsciousness may be many. In epilepsy it may last from less than a second {petit mal) to hours {grand mal). In hysteria one sees it sometimes not quite complete. In concussion of the brain from blows or falls, the unconscious- ness may be of short duration or it may last for days. In injuries of the head producing frac- tures, with laceration or pressure from htemor- rhage, the unconscious state may last for several days. In coma from alcohol or other poisons, such as opium, and in uraemia the uncon- sciousness may vary in duration and in its completeness. In unconsciousness memory is lost as long as the unconsciousness continues. Sometimes the loss of memory may be only for a second or less, as in 2^etit mal. The person may be doing some- thing—as, for instance, reading aloud—when he may suddenly stop even in the middle of a sentence or word, and after a short pause resume where he had left off. Sometimes he may even not be aware that he had stopped—all memoryMEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 302 of this short interval has gone. When the epileptic fit lasts longer, as in grand mal, he falls down, the fit goes through its various stages, and he wakens up, but is unaware of anything that happened during the fit. As a rule, he remembers what took place immediately before. His memory is complete up to, at least, the aura, and it is complete immediately after awaking. In imconsciousness from accident—as, for in- stance, after a fall or blow on the head—the person, as a rule, not only loses all memory during the unconscious state, but he also, on waking up and for the remainder of his life, has lost the memory of events which took place minutes or even hours before his accident. These last are a blotting-out of memories in the process of being fixed, and will later be con- sidered under Permanent Loss of Memory. In fevers and in very weak debilitated conditions there may also be temporary loss of memory. After recovery the memories fixed before the illness gradually return, whereas those which ought to have been fixed during the illness are effaced, or, rather, they have never really become fixed. (&) Periodic Complete Loss of Memory.—This includes a very interesting series of cases which are difficult to explain, but examples of which in medical literature are now fairly nvimerous. It includes all the cases of double personality, of which Binet has given us such an excellent description. There seem to be several varieties of the condition, but in each of them the out- standing feature is that the person has two states and two memories. The passage from the one state to the other takes place, as a rule, rapidly—indeed, instantaneously. Sometimes there is a sort of a hysterical or epileptic fit, and the person wakens up in the second state where he remembers nothing of his first state. Every- thing that has occurred to him in his first state is forgotten; he remembers nothing of his former self; he may not be able to recognise his friends or his surroundings; he begins to live a new life, which has no connection with the past. The time comes again, however, when he passes, usually in the same way (by a fit or otherwise), into his first state, and he then remembers nothing of his second, but all his first memories return to him. This seems to be the usual variety ; but there have been some cases where, when in the first or second state, they remembered not only the events of that state, but also of the other state, whilst in the other state they only remembered the events of the one state. The condition of dual personality is closely allied to the somnambulistic state, where the somnambulistic state may be taken as representing one personality and the wakeful state the other. In the wakeful state nothing of the somnambulistic state may be remembered, although sometimes there may be a vague recollection of it, and in the somnambulistic state nothing of the wakeful state may be re- membered ; but often, it is said, the person may have the memory of the previous somnambulistic state, and may actually begin, as it were, where he had previously left off. Closely allied to this is the hypnotic state, but this I need not enter into. It is difficult explaining how dual personality arises. Some have supposed that one cerebral hemisphere is used for one state, and the other hemisphere for the other state ; but this hardly explains some cases, where more than two states were periodically passed into. An explanation which is capable of much more general applica- tion is, that alongside of each other two separate groups of cells and, therefore, of memories are formed, having no associational connection with each other except at the point of initiation of the impulses in the higher levels of the cerebrum. Once the energy starts along one path, it can only set in action the cells giving rise to the one conscious state, as these have no association with the cells of the other conscious state. (c) Permanent Complete Loss of Memory.— This disorder is seen sometimes after blows or injuries to the head where the person on recover- ing may not only not remember what has occurred during the state of unconsciousness, but events leading up to the accident may have also been forgotten—for instance, a man driving a runaway horse and rendered unconscious by a fall may never be able to recall his efforts to check the horse, nor may he be able to re- member the last few miles of his journey. The reason for this is that memory depends on nutrition; it is a nutrient process. It is necessary for nutrient changes to take place in the cell after it has received its nerve im- pression if the memory of that impression is to become fixed or permanent. This cell has always a tendency to return to its stable or original condition, and apparently shock, pro- ducing unconsciousness, prevents the vital processes which are taking place in the cell at the moment from being completed. A more serious permanent loss of memory may, however, occur as a result of an injury to the head. In this condition all memory of the previous life of the individual up to the date of the accident, or up to a particular period in his life—as, for instance, his marriage—may be blotted out, so that his life during that period may be a total blank. Cases have occurred where there remained no memory of early life, no recollection of father or mother and old friends—the past was a complete blank and mystery. Again, patients had forgotten all about their husband or wife, and did not recognise them, they being no more to them than any other individuals. In some cases the lost memories have gradually returned, in some almost at once; but in many they have never returned. TheMEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 303 explanation of this form of loss of memory is to be found in some serious injury to some of the important nerve associations in the cortex, or to grave nutrient or circulatory changes in the cerebrum. (2) Partial Destruction of il/emories.—Partial amnesias are common as the result of localising lesions in the cerebrum. Many of these have been referred to in the article on "Aphasia" (vol i. p. 232), where the various groups of memories associated with the speech faculty have been considered. In the cerebral hemi- spheres we have various centres where are grouped the memories associated with special sensations and actions. We have areas where are grouped the visual memories, others where are grouped the auditory, others the motor, and so on; and any destructive lesion or lesions interfering with the nourishment of those par- ticular areas interferes or blots out the special memories stored in them. Thrombosis, embol- ism, haemorrhage, injuries, etc., are apt to pro- duce partial amnesias, the symptoms varying according to the seat of the lesion. Reference to this will be found in the articles in which these lesions are considered. Sufficient to say here that these partial amnesias may be temporary, or they may be permanent, according as the condition causing them is capable of being cured or not. (3) Progressive Amnesias. — This group in- cludes those cases of loss of memory where there is a gradual progressive loss. I do not wish to include in it those cases due to focal lesion in the cerebrum, where the area involved gradually increases in extent as from thrombosis. These cases come in reality under the partial amnesias, as one centre and its memories simply become involved in the lesion after the other. The cases coming under this group are those due to a gradual regression or degeneration of the nervous system, such as one sees in dementia, where the highest and least stable memories are blotted out first, the next in order follow, until the most stable, the organic memories, only are left. The patient, from being a highly intellectual human being, becomes a mere vegetating or living animal. The most recently acquired functions disappear first; the earliest, associated with the mere organic functions, disappear last, following a law of regression. The most typical example is seen in dementia, but it may also be seen in other degenerative diseases of the brain. (c) and (d). Difficulty in reviving Memories hy Will, and by a Similar Impression.—-In some conditions where there is a focal lesion of the brain, or where there is a general lowering of the vital processes, the person may have a difficulty in recollecting something or other. This is seen in old people. They may forget proper names, nouns, etc. The memory of such names is stored in their cerebrum, be- cause immediately the name is mentioned they recognise it as the name they wanted to recall. It is supposed that owing to the lowered vital condition of the brain the impulse from within is not able to rouse the old memory, especially when the memory has few associations such as a proper name or a substantive, whilst the old memories of these having many associations, such as verbs, etc., are more easily recalled. When a memory cannot be recalled from below, that is by a similar impression to the original impression or an association of the original impression, there is usually some focal lesion cutting off the particular sense organ from its centre in the cortex, as one sees in lesions in the occipital lobe, where persons cannot name objects at sight, although they can speak about and use the names of such objects in general conversation. These two groups, however, have also a distinct relation to aphasia, and are there referred to. III. Defects dub to Non-Recognition AFTER Revival These conditions are usually due to want of proper associations of the memory. They are not recognised because they have not been properly associated or linked to some other memory. How recognition comes about may be shown by a simple illustration. One person may say to another, "Do you remember me?" " No, I don't remember you." " Don't you remember seeing me last year in London?" At once the answer is, " Oh, I remember now." Whenever the association was given the old memory was recalled and recognised. Defects of recognition are seen in some diseases of the brain, as in object blindness where the person does not recognise objects which ought to be familiar to him. It is seen in gross lesions of the cortex, especially if in both hemispheres, but is also seen in the delirium of fevers and other diseases where the person may not be able to recognise people and things round him. IV. Hypermnesia or Excitations of Memory As people naturally vary in their capacity for remembering, so it follows that it is difficult determining when there is a slight excitation of memory. There may be a general hypermnesia where all memory is excited. There is a great increase of the memory pictures which arise in the brain. One scene or picture passes rapidly after the other—in fact, there is an increased cerebration. This condition arises where there is an increase in the blood circulating in the brain, as in fevers and the early stages of brain disease, also in states of excitement, in hysteria, and in the hypnotic state. There may not only be an increase in the blood going to the brain, but it may be altered in quantity and contain con- stituents which excite the cortical cells. ThisMEMORY IN HEALTH AND DISEASE 304 probably to some extent explains the hyperm- nesia of fevers, but it is seen most distinctly after the taking of some drugs or articles of diet such as alcohol, tea, cocaine, and morphia. By these memory may be excited and the imagina- tion stimulated, as in the well-known case of De Quincey. It has been said that drowning people have marked hypermnesia. Some who have been rescued have related how their whole life has passed before them in a few seconds, many events which had taken a long time to occvir being crowded into that short time. Hypermnesia has also been stated to have occurred after accidents to the head, such as blows. Cases have been related where such accidents produced a permanent excitation of memory. The hypermnesia may be local or limited to a group of memories. Some of the cases recorded of this condition are very interesting, as in those cases where a language which apparently has been forgotten is revived. The case recorded by Dr. Rush is one of this sort. An Italian in America was seized with yellow fever: at the beginning of his illness he spoke English, in the middle French, and on the day of his death he spoke only Italian, which was his mother- tongue. It is related also of a Pole under chloroform that he spoke his native tongue, which he had not used for thirty or forty years. A Frenchman, understanding English and being in England, got a blow on the head, and during his illness was only able to speak in French. These are examples of temporary excitation of memories in long disuse, but they imply the temporary blotting out of more recent memories, and therefore are in accord with the law as to recent memories not being so deeply imprinted as memories earlier in life. Before concluding I may refer to the peculiar condition which is vouched for by many that when they have gone into some room or other place for the first time they are vaguely aware of the fact that they have been there before, although they know that such cannot be the case. It is a peculiar condition and difficult to explain. In some cases it may arise from a vague resemblance between the scene being witnessed and some former scene nearly for- gotten, but in other cases this explanation is scarcely satisfactory. It seems to me that a more satisfactory explanation is that the first impression of the place is recorded in the cortical cells, without at first arousing active conscious- ness, and when active consciousness is aroused the first impression is not recognised as an impression just received, but is supposed to have been received in a vaguely previous period. Menarch^.—The age of commencement of menstruation; the establishment of the menstrual function (Gr. ft.rjv, a month, and a.pxn, a beginning). See Menstruation. Mendel's Law.—Mendelism or Mendel's law is a principle in heredity enunciated by G. J. Mendel of Briinn in 1865, but little known till 1900. It is founded on experiments in the fertilisation of different forms of the common pea ; and it consists in the statement that if two forms of pea (a and y8) be crossed, hybrids are produced (say y and S) whose sex cells contain equal numbers of cells with the characters of a and of The distinguishing characters of a may be called A and those of /3 may be called B; the sex cells of y and 8 are believed from their behaviour to consist of equal numbers of cells of type A and of type B. If, now, y and 8 be crossed, three things may happen—cells of type A may unite with others of type A to give pure forms, or those of type B may do the same to give pure forms, or those of type A may unite with those of type B to give hybrid forms, AB; and the hybrid forms will tend to be twice as numerous as either of the pure forms {i.e. from 100 fertilisations there will result 25 A's, 25 B's, and 50 AB's or hybrids); this numerical relationship was shown by Mendel to exist. MenidrOSiS.—The occurrence of blood- stained perspiration in the association with suppression of the menses ; a form of xenomenia or vicarious menstruation. See Menstruation AND ITS Disorders. IVl6n lire's Disease. — Labyrinthine vertigo. See Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth {Hcemorrhage into the Labyrinth); Brain, Tu- mours OF {Diagnosis); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses); Vertigo (Ifeniere's Disease). Mening'eS.—The affections of the men- inges are considered in the following sections :— i. A general article dealing with the anatomy and physiology, also vascular, inflammatory, and other states not included in sections ii. and iii. (see p. 305). ii. Tuberculous meningitis and posterior basic meningitis (see p. 316). iii. Epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis (see p. 324). See also Alcoholism {Pathology, Meninges); Bed-Sores {3Ieningitis due to Chronic Bed-Sore); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Throm- bosis in Cerebral Veins) ; Brain, Hypertrophy {Diagnosis); Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis, Meningitis); Brain, Surgery of {Injuries; Compression, Diagnosis; Intracranial Inflam- mation ; Cerebral Abscess, Diagnosis); Burns AND Scalds {Cerebral Complications); Children, Clinical Examination of {Neck, Stiffness); Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Sequel); Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Re- current Vomiting, Diagnosis); Glanders {Patho- logy) ; Hydrocephalus {Syviptoins); Hysteria IN Childhood {Symptoms, Pseudo-Meningitis); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Nervous System) ; Mumps {Complications); Nose, Dis-305 MENINGES EASES OF Nasal Orifices {Tumours, Operative Treatment, Sequelce); Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflammation {Complications); Peritoneum, Tuberculous Peritonitis {Complications); Pneumonia, Clinical {Complications, etc.) ; Pulse {Pulse in Tubercular Meningitis); Spina Bifida ; Spinal Cord {Medical) ; Spinal Cord {Surgical); Syphilis {In Children, Nervous System); Teeth {Oral Sepsis, Cause of Menin- gitis) ; Typhoid Fever {Complications); Typhus Fever {Diagnosis); Unconsciousness {Types); Visceral Pain {Meningitis). Meningfes of the Cerebrum. Anatomy and Physiology . . . 305 Vascular Disturbances— 1. Hyperemia. .... 307 2. Haemorrhage .... 307 Hoematoma of the Dura Mater . 308 3. Thrombosis of Veins and Sin- uses. ..... 309 Inflammations— 1. Pachymeningitis. . . . 309 {a) External .... 309 (6) Internal . . . .310 2. Leptomeningitis . . . .310 {a) Acute Simple Meningitis {Purulent Meningitis) . . 310 (6) Chronic Leptomeningitis . 313 3. Syphilitic Meningitis (or Men- ingo-Encephalitis) . . .313 Tumours 315 Minor Conditions . . . . .316 Anatomy and Physiology.—Anatomically, three membranes are usually described — the dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. Even on anatomical grounds, it is extremely doubtful whether the last two should be considered dis- tinct membranes; and certainly, from the clinical and pathological points of views, they are not separable, as they always suffer together in disease. The dura mater forms the internal periosteum of the cranial bones. In adults it requires but little force to detach it from the inner surface of the skull, except at the base; morbid ad- hesion of the dura to the skull is very common in the insane. The dura is composed of dense fibrous tissue, lined on its inner surface by a layer of endo- thelium. The fibrous tissue is usually described as divisible into two layers, an outer and inner, the fibres of which run in different directions; this is true, at least, where the dura encloses its sinuses and where the cranial nerves pass through it. It seems probable that elastic fibres, which certainly are present in large numbers in the spinal dura, do not occur in the cerebral dura (Sappey). The dura sends into the cavity of the skull the three well-known processes, viz., the faLv cerebri between the cerebral hemispheres, the VOL. VI tentorium cerebelli between the upper surface of the cerebellum and the under surface of the occipital lobe, and the falx cerebelli between the cerebellar hemispheres; it also sends out pro- cesses as sheaths to the cranial nerves. The great sinuses enclosed in the dura, which receive the venous blood from the cerebrum, have already been considered, as well as the parts of the brain served by each sinus {vide "Brain, Physiology of," vol. i. p. 463). The main arteries of the dura lie towards its outer aspect, the veins near its centre. The great artery is the middle meningeal, a branch of the internal maxillary : it supplies practically the whole of the cerebral dura except its extreme anterior part (which is supplied by the anterior meningeal artery from the ophthalmic), and the dura of the posterior fossa (which is supplied by the posterior meningeal artery from the vertebral). The middle meningeal artery, which lies in the well-known grooves on the inner surface of the cranial bones, is much the most common source of traumatic intracranial hsemorrhage, especially in its anterior branch: the lines on the skull for finding it are there- fore of great importance {vide " Brain, Surgery of," vol. i. pp. 504, 505). The connections of the veins of the dura with those of the skull or of structures outside it deserve special attention as being one of the paths by which infective processes are conveyed from without, and cause various septic condi- tions, especially sinus-thrombosis. The chief ones are the mastoid emissary vein, passing through the mastoid foramen and connecting the mucosa of the middle ear with the lateral sinus; the parietal emissary vein, passing through the parietal foramen and connecting the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp; the ophthalmic veins, from the eye and orbit, passing through the sphenoidal fissure into the cavernous sinus. The capillaries of the dura lie chiefly at the outer and inner aspects of the membrane. From the valuable researches of Ford Robertson, it appears that there is a great network of remarkably large capillaries just underneath the surface endothelium, and that they are surrounded by channels, evidently lymph- channels—the perivascular canals of the dura— with walls lined by endothelial cells. Fluid readily finds its way from the subdural space into these canals, which discharge into the veins of the skull and dura ; and Ford Robertson con- cludes that these canals form one, perhaps the chief path by which the cerebro-spinal fluid, filtering through from the subarachnoid spaces into the subdural space, is carried into the general circulation. According to the same writer, the endothelial cells of the dura, both those on its inner surface and those lining the perivascular canals, are very liable to chronic proliferative and degenerative changes in cases of306 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM insanity (especially general paralysis and senile insanity). We shall see later that he believes that these changes play an essential and primary part in the pathology of so-called hematoma of the dura mater. But, further, he regards these changes as constituting the chief cause of ob- struction to the outflow of cerebro-spinal fluid, which he considers a secondary factor of the greatest importance in the causation of mental disease—the result being not only pathological increase of general intracranial pressure, with the consequent disturbance of the cerebral functions, but also, more serious still, stagnation of the cerebro-spinal fluid, which becomes overcharged with the eff'ete products of metabolism of the cerebral tissues (the cerebro-spinal fluid being regarded as simply the lymph of the brain) and thus a chronic condition of cerebral auto-intoxi- cation is added to and aggravates the primary disease. Two sorts of nerve fibres are found in the dura—(1) non-medullated, vaso-motor fibres, derived from the sympathetic and accompanying the meningeal arteries; and (2) meduUated, sensory fibres, forming irregular plexuses through the whole dura; to these last, no doubt, is due the local head pain, which forms such a prominent feature in many meningeal lesions, e.g. tumours, inflammations. The subdural space probably contains very little fluid intra vitam in normal conditions. The arachnoid and pia mater are, as we have seen, usually described as two distinct mem- branes, composed of dense fibrous tissue—the outer or arachnoid being non-vascular and bridg- ing over the sulci, while the inner or pia mater is vascular and dips down into the sulci, closely covering the whole surface of the brain ; between the two is a space known on this view as the subarachnoid space, traversed by numerous fibrous trabeculse. It is certainly better to speak, not of one subarachnoid space, but of subarachnoid spaces which are present in large numbers, varying greatly in size and communi- cating with each othei. The tendency of writers {cf. Ford Robertson and Middlemass) now is to describe the arachnoid and pia mater as one and the same structure, lined on the outer surface by a layer of endothelium and composed essentially of white fibrous tissue, which is disposed in bundles of trabeculse, thus forming a network, whose meshes constitute spaces freely communicating with each other. These spaces contain cerebro-spinal fluid and are larger and more numerous in the centre of the membrane ; hence its apparent division into two parts, an outer (arachnoid) and an inner (pia mater). The arachnoid and pia mater, in any case, are inseparable pathologically, as they always suffer together in disease, and therefore we may speak of the conjoined structure as the "pia arachnoid." We shall retain the old name " subarachnoid " for the spaces and fluid. Some of the subarachnoid spaces, especially at the base of the brain, are so large as to constitute so-called " cisterns." One of these, known as the great cerehello-medullary cistern or " the posterior subarachnoid space " (Lees and Barlow), bridging over the interval between the medulla and cerebellum, is of special import- ance, as the openings between it and the fourth ventricle are the only means of communication which the ventricular system of the brain has with the subarachnoid spaces of the brain and cord. These openings are three in number—a fairly large one, the foramen of Magendie, in the middle line at the lowest part of the fourth ventricle, and two lateral openings, the foramina of Luschka, one on either side, close to the origin of the vagus nerve. The pial arteries and veins lie chiefly in or near the subarachnoid spaces. With the exception of the perforating arteries at the base of the brain, all the arteries to the brain run for a longer or shorter course in the pia arachnoid as pial arteries, whence branches pass into the brain at right angles to the surface of the convolutions. The pial veins are of remarkably large calibre and have very thin, non-muscular walls. Capil- laries are usually described in the pia arachnoid, but Ford Robertson holds that they are virtu- ally absent, the pia arachnoid being nourished not by capillaries of its own, but by the cerebro- spinal fluid which is conveyed to it from the lymph-spaces of the brain, by way of lymph- channels in the adventitia of the larger intra- cerebral vessels; the absence of capillaries would prevent short cutting of the blood-supply to the brain. With regard to nerves, the researches of Morison, Obersteiner, Gulland, and others, have now conclusively proved the existence of nerve- fibres in the walls of the pial arterioles; but proof is yet wanting that they occur in the walls of intracerebral arterioles, and despite much laborious and careful observation and ex- perimentation, the existence of a cerebral vaso- motor mechanism cannot yet be considered as proved. The pia mater, besides penetrating into the sulci of the brain, sends highly vascular processes into the ventricles. One of these, the velum interpositum, passes through the transverse fissure of the cerebrum, beneath the corpus callosum and above the corpora quadrigemina, pineal gland and optic thalami, bridging over the third ventricle and carrying the vascular fringes which are known as the choroid plexuses of the third and lateral ventricles. The venous blood from these is returned by veins, which run backwards in the velum interpositum and unite posteriorly into the vein (or veins) of Galen, opening into the straight sinus. A similar process of the pia passes into the fourth ventricle between the ventral surface of the cere- bellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla,MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 307 carrying the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The fluid in the ventricles is, probably, mainly of the nature of a secretion by the choroid plexuses, although some writers still maintain that it is simply a transudation from the capillaries of the surrounding nervous sub- stance. This fluid is important as constituting a water-bed on which the brain rests, and a water-cushion surrounding and protecting the spinal cord. The fluid is being constantly pro- duced, and probably this production is much more active than is usually supposed. It must therefore be steadily drained away from the ventricles, and as we have seen, the only exit from the ventricles is by the foramina on the roof of the fourth ventricle. Through these the fluid passes into the subarachnoid spaces at the base of the brain and surrounding the cord, and thence it exudes along the lymphatic channels in the sheaths of all the outgoing nerves, cerebral and spinal, and also along the lymphatics surrounding the larger blood-vessels of the brain and cord. There are, however, other paths by which the fluid may pass from the subarachnoid spaces into the general venous circulation. We have seen the importance attached in this respect by Ford Robertson to the perivascular canals of the dura mater, through which the fluid may pass into the veins of the skull and dura. Again, Leonard Hill lays stress on its passage through channels in the walls of the venous sinuses ; and, lastly, the fluid may pass through the Pacchionian bodies into the sinuses, especially the superior longitudinal sinus. These bodies are simply villous outgrowths of the arachnoid, lying mainly near a sinus of the dura in the well- known depressions on the inside of the cranial bones, and separated from the sinuses by a thin layer of dura, through which it is proved experi- mentally that serous fluid can pass from the subarachnoid spaces into the sinuses of the dura. It is very improbable that much, if any, fluid can be absorbed from the ventricles by the choroid plexuses or veins. It is obvious, therefore, that as the fluid in the lateral and third ventricles has only one means of exit, viz., by the aque- duct of Sylvius and the fourth ventricle, and thence through the foramina of Magendie and Luschka, obstruction of this drainage channel at any part must play a most important role in the production of internal hydrocephalus. Thus, in meningitis especially affecting the posterior part of the base of the brain, these foramina are very liable to get blocked up by in- flammatory exudate, or, still more, by sub- sequent adhesions, and, therefore, as we should expect, internal hydrocephalus to a greater or less extent forms an almost constant feature in those cases. The part generally assigned to obstruction of the veins of Galen (e.g. from the pressure of a tumour) in the production of hydrocephalus has a very doubtful existence; in many, if not all such cases, there is also obstruction of the drainage channel, especially the narrow aqueduct of Sylvius, and this last is probably the important factor. The connection of the pia arachnoid with the cerebral cortex, partly vascular, partly fibrous, is so close that it is not remarkable that inflammation of the membrane generally im- plicates the surface of the brain, so that one should speak rather of a meningo-encephalitis than of simple meningitis. Vascular Disturbances 1. Hyperemia.—The first stage of a menin- gitis is constituted by congestion of the mem- branes, their vessels being dilated and engorged, while the membranes present a rosy hue. The poison of some of the specific fevers, notably pneumonia and typhoid fever, may cause intense engorgement of the membranes and thereby produce symptoms indistinguishable from those of a cortical meningitis. Active congestion of the membranes, occurring as an independent condition, has been assumed to account for some cases, chiefly in children, in which there are acute general cerebral symptoms (headache, delirium, convulsions, coma), and which end sometimes in recovery, sometimes in death. Such a condition, if it is an independent entity, is probably indistinguishable from menin- gitis clinically, and the treatment will be the same. Simple congestion of the dura is often found post-mortem in the insane, but it is by no means cei'tain that it is common during life. It is specially noticeable and constant in cases of general paralysis dying in a congestive attack. 2. Meningeal HiEMORRHAGE.—Blood may be extravasated (1) outside the dura mater (ex- tradural or subcranial htemorrhage); (2) into the subdural space (subdural hsemorrhage); or (3) into the substance of the pia arachnoid (subarachnoid htemorrhage). Etiology.—The most common cause of menin- geal haemorrhage is trauma, a fall or blow on the head generally causing fracture of the skull; the effusion may be outside or beneath the dura mater. Extradural ha3morrhage is generally due to rupture of a meningeal artery —in the vast majority of cases the middle meningeal artery, especially its anterior branch. It may, however, come from the middle menin- geal veins, the veins of the diploe or the large sinuses. Subdural traumatic haemorrhage is generally due to rupture of a vessel of the pia, especially the pial veins as they enter the superior longitudinal sinus. Meningeal haemor- rhage, occurring during birth from compression of the skull in difficult labour, is generally believed to be the cause, in most cases, of birth palsy {vide " Paralysis").MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 308 Blood may be effused into the meninges, generally into the subarachnoid region, from rupture of aneurysms on the larger cerebral vessels, especially at the base; haemorrhages into the cortex sometimes, but somewhat rarely, open externally into the subarachnoid spaces Meningeal hsemorrhages may also occur under the same conditions as general intracerebral haemorrhage (vide " Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels," vol. i. p. 475). In some blood diseases {e.g. purpura, scurvy, pernicious anaemia), subdural haemorrhages of considerable size have been found. The condition known as haematoma of the dura mater, which occurs with special frequency in the insane, will be considered separately {v. infra). Symptoms.—Initial loss of consciousness may be present or absent. If present, as is the rule in traumatic cases from the direct eft'ect of the concussion, it often disappears and the patient may complain of nothing but headache for a few hours or even several days, when somnolence comes on, gradually deepening to coma. A special feature in some cases is great pain in the head, due probably to pressure on the nerves of the dura mater. Motor symptoms are gener- ally present, although it is often very difficult to recognise them while the patient is comatose. Usually they begin and are most prominent on one side of the body, viz., that opposite to the side on which the haemorrhage is taking place ; but as the haemorrhage may extend over to the other side so as to injure the motor region of the cortex, the symptoms may and often do become bilateral. Thus, hemiplegia is frequently found, and later the paresis may be found to affect both sides of the body. Still more promi- nent, however, are convulsions, often starting locally in the limbs or face on the opposite side to that on which the haemorrhage is occurring, and later becoming general. The state of the pupils is very variable, but often the pupil on the side of the haemorrhage is dilated and insensible to light. Sensory symptoms {e.g. hemianaesthesia, tingling in limbs, hemianopsia) are much less common than motor symptoms. Aphasia is not uncommon, and there may be very considerable mental disturbance with de- lirium and violence. Death usually occurs in coma. In some cases, more especially those in which the haemorrhage is due to rupture of a large vessel at the base, there is rapid develop- ment of deep apoplexy, paralysis, and flaccidity of all limbs, convulsions, coma, and death in a few hours. The diagnosis of meningeal haemorrhage is often difficiilt, or even impossible. Where cere- bral haemorrhage is suspected, trauma as an etiological factor is of great importance, as trau- matic haemorrhage is most commonly in the meninges, especially in young people. Among the symptoms, the pain in the head and the frequency of convulsions perhaps deserve special mention. Attempts have been made to dis- tinguish on clinical grounds between extradural and subdural haemorrhage: in the latter the onset of general compression symptoms is usu- ally much more rapid, while the localising symptoms are usually much less distinct and of shorter duration. The prognosis in each case depends largely on its etiology. In cases of rupture of a large vessel at the base the result is rapidly fatal. In traumatic cases, if the extravasation is not a large one, recoA'ery may take place, but it is slow and usually incomplete, a certain amount of hemiplegia and often mental impairment re- maining ; where the extravasation is large and deepening coma is present, the prognosis is very grave unless there is prompt surgical inter- ference, but cases are met with in which spon- taneous improvement unexpectedly occurs. Treatment.—Excellent results have been ob- tained within recent years by operation; this applies, of course, mainly to traumatic cases, although extravasations not traumatic in origin have been similarly treated. The details of the operation are given elsewhere {vide "Brain, Surgery of," vol. i.). Apart from operation, the treatment does not differ from that of cerebral haemorrhage generally. Hematoma of the Dura Mater {Syn. Haemor- rhagic Internal Pachymeningitis; Meningeal Blood Tumour; Subdural False Membrane).— These various names have been given by differ- ent authorities to a peculiar formation in the subdural space, which, while comparatively rare in the mentally sound, is of very frequent oc- currence in cases of chronic insanity (especially general paralysis and senile insanity) and chronic alcoholism. It is also said to have been found in certain blood diseases, in some of the acute fevers, in infantile scurvy, etc. Morbid Anatomy.—The naked-eye appearance of the condition varies very much. In some cases there is simply a delicate vascular mem- brane lining the dura. In other cases the formation is much thicker, of a rusty colour and soft, somewhat gelatinous consistence; it is generally very vascular, and often presents signs of haemorrhage into its substance—indeed, in many cases, all that can be detected with the naked eye is a layer of blood-clot, often lami- nated, which may reach a thickness of half an inch or more. The formation is always adherent to the dura mater, although it is as a rule easily detached ; it is almost never adherent to the pia arachnoid. It is most frequent over the upper and lateral aspects of the brain, and is usually unilateral; it often covers almost the entire surface of the intracranial dura, and the spinal dura is also frequently involved. With regard to t\iQ pathology of this condition, there are two great contending views. Accord- ing to the one view, which is adopted by most authorities in this country, the whole process is309 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM simply a subdural hsemorrhage, generally be- lieved to be from a pial vein—the hcemorrhai/io theory. The other view is specially associated with the name of Virchow, and is supported by most writers on the Continent—the inflamimitory theory; the initial stage of the process is held to be of an inflammatory nature—an exudate of fibrinous lymph occurs first on the surface of the dura mater, which becomes organised by the growth of blood-vessels and granulation tissue from the dura, and thus a vascular membrane is formed. The blood-vessels in this membrane are very prone to rupture, and thus htemorrhages occur as a secondary phenomenon. It is on this theory that the name " hsemorrhagic internal pachymeningitis " is given to the condition. A third theory has been more recently enunciated by Ford Robertson, and he has supported it with evidence which appears very convincing. Apart from cases of simple haemorrhage into the subdural space, which are probably as common in the sane as in the insane, and are due to the usual cases of intracranial haemorrhage, he holds that the special subdural formation of the insane —comparatively rare in the mentally sound—is due to a widespread morbid process in the tissues of the dura itself, of a degenerative and not in- flammatory nature, which is specially common in certain cases of chronic insanity (general paralysis and senile insanity). This morbid process consists in proliferative and degenerative changes in the endothelial elements of the dura, with resulting compression of the superficial capillaries, and the constant association of the development of new capillaries on the inner surface of the dura, and, as these capillaries are specially prone to give way, frequent haemor- rhages occur, especially during the last days of life. The primary morbid changes in the dura, which predispose to this condition, are ascribed to the irritating effects of the cerebro- spinal fluid, which flows froin the cerebral lymph-spaces through both pia arachnoid and dura mater; it receives the products of meta- bolism of the cerebral tissues, and, as their metabolism must be abnormal in marked cases of insanity, the composition of the cerebro- spinal fluid must be altered, and it will become unsuited for the healthy nutrition of the parts through which it is carried away. Sympto7ns.—The symptoms are very indefinite, or may be entirely absent, especially where the haemorrhages are small or have occurred very gradually. Apoplectiform seizures may occur; mental failure is often rapidly increased; head- ache, especially of the vertex, is prominent in some cases; in many cases hemiplegia is found where the condition exists on one side, mainly or entirely; occasionally, convulsions; there may be marked signs of increased intracranial pressure—vomiting, somnolence or coma, slow- ing and irregularity of pulse, contracted pupils reacting slowly to light. The diagnosis cannot be made with certainty ; but the possible exist- ence of the condition should be remembered, where headache and such symptoms of impair- ment of the cerebral functions as have been noted above occur in persons known to be liable to the condition. Almost all cases have a fatal result, often very rapidly. Ford Robertson, indeed, believes that almost all these cases of subdural forma- tion develop within a few days or even hours of death. Possibly, in early cases due to chronic alcoholism, the process may be arrested if the cause can be removed. Treatment is generally of no avail, and apart from removal of the cause, it will be directed along the lines followed in dealing with intra- cerebral haemorrhage in general. 3. Thrombosis of Meningeal Veins and Sinuses.—(Vide "Brain, Affections of Blood- vessels," and " Brain, Surgery of," vol. i.; "Ear, Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media," vol. ii.). Thrombosis of a surface vein is held by some authorities, notably Gowers, to be the primary lesion in infantile hemiplegia (vide " Hemi- plegia " and also " Paralysis "). Inflammations of the Meninges Inflammation of the dura mater is known as pachymeningitis, and is much less common than inflammation of the pia arachnoid, which is known as leptomeningitis or simply meningitis. 1. Inflammation of the Dura Mater (Pachymeningitis) Inflammation may affect primarily either of the two layers of which the dura is usually said to be composed : thus one speaks of external and internal pachymeningitis. (a) External Pachymeningitis.—This form is generally secondary either to fracture of the cranial bones from injury or to disease of bone ; the latter is usually either caries (especially caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone in otitis media) or syphilitic disease. In a few cases it has occurred in erysipelas, the poison being probably conveyed by way of the veins of the diploe. The inflammation may be simple (non-puru- lent), as when caused by a severe blow on the head, and it is then usually localised. The first result is often effusion of blood between the dura and the skull, and the inflammatory exudate follows; the final issue is a thickening of the outer layer of the dura, which is firmly adherent to the bone, and often a growth of osteo- phytes into this tissue. The chief symptoms of this form are persistent headache, and the subsequent development of traumatic epilepsy. In the great majority of cases, however (as when due to caries, syphilitic disease of bone, or a compound fracture of the skull), the in- flammation is of a purulent nature, and an abscess is formed between the dura and bone (extradural or subcranial abscess). The quantityMENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 310 of pus in this situation may be very consider- able, but only rarely is pus found in the substance of the dura, although the inflammation has in some cases spread to the deep layer of the dura and even to the pia arachnoid. The dura mater limiting the abscess cavity is fi-equently thickened. The symptoms of extradural abscess are very indefinite, and are usually obscured by those of its cause (trauma, otitis media, etc.). Head pain and tenderness of the cranium on pressure are often present; the pain is usually local, but may become generalised ; fever, rigors, rapid pulse, vomiting, delirium, convulsions may occur. Where there is a large collection of pus, symptoms of local cerebral compression may appear, e.g. where the affection is in the region of the motor cortex, there may be spasm or paralysis of the opposite limbs. The treatment will naturally be (1) that which is required by the injury or disease, of which tlie inflammation is a secondary result; (2) the measures used in meningitis generally (ice-bag to head, leeches, blisters, purgation, etc.); and (3) where an abscess has formed and can be diagnosed, immediate evacuation of the pus by trephining. Surgical interference may also be required in a non-purulent case, in order to re- lieve the head pain or the subsequent epileptic condition. (i) Internal Fachy meningitis.—A purulent form occurs, but it is nearly always secondary to inflammation either of tlie pia arachnoid or, more rarely, of the outer layer of the dura. It is doubtful if it ever occurs as a primary con- dition, and no special group of symptoms can be assigned to it. A pseudo-membranous inflammation of the lining membrane of the dura is also described. Osier has seen a characteristic example in pneumonia. The condition known as hfemorrhagic internal pachymeningitis has already been considered. 2. Inflammation of the Pia Arachnoid (Lepto- meningitis) Etiology (including Bacteriology) . 310 Morhid Anatomy .... . 310 Symptoms ..... . 311 Course ...... . 312 Convplications ..... . 312 Prognosis ..... . 312 Diagnosis ..... . 312 Treatment ..... . 313 (a) Acute Simple Meningitis (Purulent Meningitis) Etiology. — Apart from extension of the inflammation from a cerebral abscess, purulent meningitis is usually associated with one of the following conditions :—(l)/tywry to the skull. (2) Adjacent disease, especially that of a suppur- ative nature. Of much the greatest importance is chronic suppurative otitis media, with necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone {vide " Ear") ; less often, diseases of the nose, frontal sinus and orbit. (3) The acute fevers and more general infective conditions, especially pneumonia, empyema, erysipelas, ulcerative endocarditis, pyaemia, and septicaemia; less often typhoid fever, smallpox, influenza, scarlet fever, etc. (4) As a terminal infection (Osier) in chronic nephritis, arterio-sclerosis, gout, heart disease, and the wasting diseases of children. Like tlie forms of meningitis already con- sidered, purulent meningitis is caused by the invasion of micro-organisms. Even in cases due to injury, without an open wound, it is probable that the trauma acts simply by lowering the resistance of the tissues and thus allowing the more ready growth of the organisms. The possible modes of introduction of the infection are (1) direct, from a neighbouring focus of inflammation, as in compound wounds of the skull; (2) by emissary veins—sinus thrombosis not infrequently precedes the development of meningitis; (3) by the lymphatics ; and (4) by the general blood stream from distant foci of infection, as in septicaemia. There can be little doubt, we think, that the great path of invasion in cases of meningitis of the base is from the naso-pliarynx, through the Eustachian tube and the middle ear. In this connection it is im- portant to remember that otitis may be present without otorrhcea. On the other hand, cases of vertical meningitis, especially where the anterior part of the brain is mainly afi^ected, are in all probability often due to invasion of organisms from the nose along the lymphatic channels, which have been shown to pass through the cribriform plate from the nasal mucous mem- brane (Key and Retzius). Different micro-organisms have been found in the exudate in diff'erent cases, and some are undoubtedly specific ; it is probable that we shall yet be able to associate diff'erent clinical forms of purulent meningitis with differences in the bacteriology. The organisms most usually found are Fraenkel's pneumococcus and the streptococcus. The pneumococcus is found especially in meningitis of the convexity, often bilateral, and it may be associated with acute pneumonia or not. Osier believes that most cases of so-called sporadic meningitis are prob- ably due to it. The streptococcus is usually found in cases due to trauma, ear disease and the general septic conditions, also in many cases of ulcerative endocarditis and in the terminal meningitides (Osier). Other organisms have, however, been found in the exudate, although less frequently—the staphylococci, the typhoid bacillus, the influenza bacillus, the gonococcus, etc. Morbid Anatomy.—Purulent meningitis may affect mainly the basal or the cortical meninges, but much more frequently the latter. TheMENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM 311 spinal meninges are, as a rule, involved to a greater or less extent. The meningitis is only rarely limited to the base, except where it is secondary to adjacent disease, especially ear disease; it is then often unilateral and quite circumscribed. Meningitis, chiefly averting the vertex, may result from local adjacent disease, but it is also the form most commonly found in association with the acute fevers and more general infective processes ; it is then generally diffuse and often bilateral. The first change is hyperaemia of the pia arachnoid, quickly followed by opacity of the membrane. In cases very rapidly fatal, this may be all that is seen. But very soon an inflammatory exudation is poured out into the subarachnoid spaces. At first pus is found, especially over the sulci, in small foci which unite more and more until a thick coating of yellowish-green pus may be found beneath the arachnoid, mainly over the convexity, completely hiding the convolutions {e.g. in some cases secondary to pneumonia). The surface layer of the cortex is also affected by the inflammation, and small htemorrhages and purulent foci may be seen in it; more rarely, abscesses develop in the inside of the brain. Tlie condition of the ventricles varies very considerably, both as regards the degree of dilatation and the char- acters of the contents. In cases of purulent meningitis of the convexity—by far the larger number—the ventricles are, as a rule, very slightly distended, if at all; where any amount of internal hydrocephalus occurs, it will generally be found that there is also affection of the meninges at the base, which obliterates the openings between the fourth ventricle and the subarachnoid spaces {vide Anatomy and Physio- logy, p. 305). The fluid in the ventricles is, in many cases, simply serous ; in other cases, it is opaque and contains flakes of fibrinous lymph or pus—in these cases there is extension of the inflammation to the ventricles, the lining mem- brane of which is generally opaque and swollen. A purulent meningitis, limited to the ventricles, has been described in children. Symjitoms.—The onset of purulent meningitis is often obscured by the cerebral symptoms of the disease to which the meningitis is secondary {e.g. head injury, acute infectious disease). It is, indeed, not at all uncommon for vertical meningitis to be found post-mortem, while there were no symptoms intra vitam by which it could be diagnosed with certainty; this is specially true of meningitis secondary to distant suppuration. As a rule, the first symptom and chief com- plaint is headache, which may be violent and continuous, but with exacerbations; in men- ingitis associated with general septic conditions and pneumonia there may be little, if any, complaint of headache. Delirium is a frequent early sign, and is generally most marked when the fever is high; it is characteristic of the headache that it continues during the delirium, and, even while the patient is semi-comatose, he groans or cries out and puts his hand to his head. Vomiting is frequent in the early stages, especially in basilar meningitis. While he is conscious, giddiness is frequently com- plained of, and there is marked hypersensitive- ness to liglit and sound and touch. Rigors may occur at the onset or during the course of the disease. Fever is, as a rule, present from the start. In the most acute forms the temperature may rise quickly to 104° or 105° and remain high till death. More usually it is moderate in grade, 101° to 103°, generally with irregular fluctuations, and before death a further rise may occur up to 106° or 108', but not rarely it falls below normal at the end. The pulse in some cases is frequent throughout, but much more often, especially at the onset, a slowing of the pulse is found, which is in striking contrast to the heightened temperature. Subsequently the pulse tends to become irregular, and the rise of temperature before death is usually associated with extreme frequency and smallness of the pulse. Stiffness of the neck muscles and retraction of the head are important signs of basilar meningitis. Rigidity in other muscles can usually also be made out: thus, when the patient sits on the edge of the bed with his legs hanging down, the lower leg cannot be completely straightened owing to rigidity of the flexors of the knee (Kernig's sign; see p. 330). The abdominal muscles are often hard and the abdomen retracted. There is often marked hypersesthesia of the skin and muscles, so that light touches cause very active reflexes. Tache cerehrale is often present, but is not characteristic. There is usually marked constipation: in the somnolent state retention of urine is more common than incontinence, but both urine and faeces are often passed involuntarily at the end. There is very often rapid emaciation and a great tendency to sloughs and bed-sores in the last stages, if the case is at all prolonged. Symptoms of implication of the brain itself and of the cranial nerves are very important, the latter occurring with special frequency where the base of the brain is affected. The chief symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves are—the pupils are often unequal, and they are at first usually contracted, later dilated and fixed; ptosis and strabismus are frequent, nystagmus less common ; facial paresis is not uncommon, often associated with facial tremors; trismus and gritting of the teeth occur, and there may be anaesthesia of the face and trophic changes in the cornea. Optic neuritis, often slight and accompanied by little impairment of vision, is not uncommon when312 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM the base of the brain is affected, but is comparatively rare in vertical meningitis. Signs of implication of the cortex are usually marked only when the motor region is affected. General convulsions are less common than in tuberculous meningitis. Epileptiform attacks, rigidity and spasm, or twitchings of the extremities are common. Later, or from the onset, there may be signs of hemiplegia or monoplegia. Aphasia is less common than in the tuberculous form. Occasionally unilateral hypertesthesia is present. The tendon-reflexes are often exaggerated at first, but later they are diminished or lost. The final stage is one of deep coma, with loss of reflexes : the pulse small, irregular, and very quick: the breathing quick, shallow, and often very irregular—of the Cheyne-Stokes type. Death occurs in deep coma, sometimes with convulsions. It may be well to give here a resume of the chief points of difference in the symptoms of meningitis of the convexity and of the base respectively. In meningitis of the convexity there is often extraordinary latency of the symptoms: delirium is more pronounced, vomiting less frequent, optic neuritis rare, palsies of cranial nerves for the most part absent—or at least a later symptom—retraction of the head slight or absent; cortical symptoms are more common, such as epileptiform con- vulsions—clonic spasms of the limbs usually beginning locally, but tending to become general—and hemiplegic weakness. In menin- gitis of the base the cranial nerves suffer early {e.g. Ptosis, Squinting); vomiting is frequent and may be the first sign; delirium is a later symptom; optic neuritis is not uncommon; retraction of the head is often prominent very early; and spasm of the limbs is more of a tonic than clonic nature. Course of the Disease.—It is always acute, the duration being usually one to two weeks, rarely longer. Lees and Barlow found that the average duration of fourteen vertical cases in children was 8"7 days. Some cases are very acute, death occurring within forty-eight hours. Cases lasting longer than two or three weeks have been recorded, chiefly in chil- dren : probably they belong mainly to the type considered under Posterior Basic Meningitis (see p. 321). Complications.—Sinus-thrombosis and cere- bral abscess are not uncommon complications. Pi'ognosis. — A few cases of recovery have been recorded, with and without operation ; but in the vast majority of cases purulent menin- gitis leads rapidly to a fatal issue. The chief hope in any given case would seem to lie in an error of diagnosis. Diagnosis.—So much of what has already been said under this heading in the other forms of meningitis applies to purulent meningitis that it will be unnecessary to discuss the sub- ject here in any detail. A knowledge of the etiology, the presence of an obvious source of infection, the general characters of the symp- toms, and more especially their rapid course, will often leave no doubt as to the diagnosis of meningitis of the purulent type. General cerebral symptoms, very like those of meningitis {e.g. headache, delirium, vomiting, fever, somnolence, and, in children, convulsions), may occur in the course of an acute fever, especially typhoid fever and pneumonia, or in some more general infection like pyaemia and septicBemia. In pneumonia—the condition of the lungs and the pulse-respiration rate; in typhoid fever—the slower development, the enlargement of the spleen, the roseolar rash, and the characteristic stools and temperature chart; in pyaemia and septicaemia—the presence of phlegmonous processes, swellings of joints, etc. : these will be some of the most important points to observe. In many such cases the diagnosis of meningitis cannot be made with certainty, unless marked retraction of the head and the signs of implication of the cranial nerves or of the cortex appear. Acute suppurative otitis, especially in children, may also have cerebral symptoms very like those of meningitis—e.g. intense headache, vomiting, delirium, giddiness, fever, even general convulsions ; and probably in some cases optic neuritis may be present where there is no meningitis. This fact leads Gowers to conclude that " the general cerebral symptoms alone scarcely warrant the diagnosis of secondary meningitis excited by the inflammation of the ears." It must, however, be said that these symptoms, especially any degree of optic neuritis, are very rare in simple ear disease, and in many cases it is far from clear that meningitis can be excluded from all share in the symptoms. The differential diagnosis of abscess and purulent meningitis is often very difficult or impossible : the symptoms may be very similar, and some of the most frequent causes are common to the two conditions {e.g. injury, ear disease), so that both may be present at the same time. The condition of the temperature is a point of considerable importance. We have seen that in meningitis the temperature is usually considerably above normal; in abscess, on the other hand, after the initial stage has passed, the temperature is usually normal or subnormal. The course of meningitis is usually more rapid than that of abscess; retraction of the head is suggestive of meningitis; symptoms of irritation at the base or on the surface of the brain are usually more prominent in meningitis. Lastly, mention should be made of lumbar puncture as a means of diagnosis. The spinal meninges so often suffer simultaneously with the cerebral that examination of the cerebro-313 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM spinal fluid drawn from the lumbar region of the cord may not only prove the existence of an acute meningitis, but may determine the etiological factor (see p. 330). Treatment.—The same general rules must be followed as in other forms of meningitis. Absolute rest and quiet; ice-bag to shaved head; in young, strong subjects local depletion by leeches on the region of the mastoid process may be tried, but blisters to the back of the neck should be used with caution, if at all, as they often simply add to the suifering. Osier prefers light application of the thermo-cautery ; attention to the bowels by calomel or an occasional saline purge; great care in feeding; where necessary, sponging in order to reduce the temperature \ guarding against bed-sores. In the treatment of special symptoms (head- ache, vomiting, convulsions) the same measures must be tried as in other forms of meningitis. Among general drugs, iodide of potassium, mercury, and perchloride of iron have been warmly advocated by some authors. As a prophylactic measure, careful treatment of head injuries is of the first importance. In every case of suspected purulent meningitis the most diligent search must be made for a possible source of infection, and, if any local collection of pus can be found, it must be evacuated at once. More particularly in ear disease the signs of commencing meningitis may be relieved by early operative interference, such as paracentesis of the tympanum and trephining of the mastoid process. Extradural and intra- cerebral abscesses, if they can be recognised, should also be dealt with surgically without delay. Even where the purulent exudate in the membranes is well established, surgical measures, although not very encouraging, are not hopeless; successful cases of evacuation of the exudate in purulent meningitis from ear disease have been recorded, and this procedure would seem to be specially indicated in cases of traumatic meningitis of the convexity. Other surgical measures have been tried, but only in the rarest instances with any good result: these measures include puncture of the ventricles with drainage, and, more often, re- moval of a quantity of the cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture. It is specially in cases of purulent meningitis that the latter procedure has been tried. (S) Chronic Leptomeningitis The chief form of chronic meningitis is that caused by syphilis, which will be considered later {vide infra). Apart from this, chronic meningitis is comparatively rare as a primary aff'ection. Many of the forms of acute meningitis may, however, run a chronic course. This may be the case in tuberculous meningitis, where the tubercu- lous deposit is limited to a part of the surface of the brain. The symptoms are then very similar to those of tumour. So epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis may run a course of sevei'al months ; and cases of posterior basic meningitis in infants, although their onset is almost always acute, may extend over many months {e.g. six and ten months respectively in two cases observed by Lees and Barlow). Chronic meningitis, of limited extent, occurs very often around tumours of the brain, and in the neighbourhood of disease of the cranial bones. The morbid changes consist in cellular infiltration of the pia arachnoid, and generally a somewhat extensive overgrowth of the con- nective tissue of the membrane. In this way there is thickening of the pia arachnoid, which also presents to the naked eye a white opaque look. The changes found in the meninges in general paralysis and similar diff"use chronic afi'ections of the cerebral cortex are probably of this nature, i.e. a chronic meningitis. A similar condition of the leptomeninges — a certain amount of thickening and opacity—is not infrequently met with in the subjects of chronic alcoholism; it affects the convexity chiefly, and more especially over the sulci. It is generally believed to be a diffuse meningitis, which runs a very chronic course with indefinite symptoms. Amongst the chief of these Gowers enumerates " headache, moderate in degree and sometimes absent, slight delirium, mental failure, and slight optic neuritis," and he adds that they are probably in part due to the action of the alcohol on the brain substance. It is not certain that the changes found in the pia arachnoid in this condition are due to true chronic inflammation: thus, Ziegler states that they are " chiefly due to fibrous hyperplasia, or occasionally to endothelial proliferation," not truly inflammatory. 3. Syphilitic Meningitis (Meningo-encephalitis) Apart from vascular lesion, the common form of syphilitic affection of the cerebrum is a chronic meningitis, with simultaneous affection of the brain tissue, the special " specific " lesion being known as meningo-encephxlitis gummosa, which may be circumscribed (gumma) or diffuse. The pathological changes are essentially the same in all cases, and they generally start from the leptomeninges in the subarachnoid spaces, whence they spread outwards to the dura and inwards along the vessels to the cerebral tissue. The primary changes in the pia arachnoid appear to be of the nature of a very vascular, cellular infiltration. The ultimate result is a great thickening of the pia arachnoid; and the new tissue thus formed tends to undergo changes, partly caseous, partly fibroid. The dura mater is also greatly thickened as a rule : thus a thick layer of tissue, almost cartilaginous in hardness, is often found matting together the membranes and the outer part of the cortex,314 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM and liable to exert pressure on the cranial nerves in the aflPected region. This process has a special tendency to occur at the front part of the base of the brain, in the region of the optic chiasma and between the crura cerebri: hence, the optic and oculo-motor nerves are specially often implicated. Often, however, the affection, usually of the circum- scribed form, occurs over the convexity of the hemispheres, and the predominating symptoms will be different. We shall describe briefly the symptoms which characterise the affection at the base and on the convexity respectively; but changes are often found in the same case in both these situations and also in the spinal cord—indeed, it is a special characteristic of syphilitic nervous disease that the symptoms point to multiple lesions in diff'erent parts of the central nervous system. 1. Syphilitic Disease of the Base.—As a rule cert&m. general symptoms appear first, followed soon by local symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves. Of the general symptoms, headache is the most constant and often the earliest sign; it has a great tendency to acute exacerbations, especially at night. Vomiting, giddiness, apo- plectiform attacks are common. Mental changes are often marked: loss of memory, apathy, and general mental sluggishness, with a tendency to temporary increase of these con- ditions, or to states of excitement, or often to alternations of these. The local symptoms are of much greater diagnostic importance. The optic and third cranial nerves are much oftenest affected and may suffer alone {vide su2)ra). Thus optic neuritis is very common, and vision may be affected to any degree, complete blindness being, however, rare except as a temporary phenomenon. The specially characteristic form of visual defect is bitempoi-al hemianopsia from implication of the chiasma. In the region of the oculo-motor nerves it is chiefly one or more branches of the third nerve that suffer: thus various forms of strabismus and especially ptosis are common. The pupillary muscles may also be affected, and absence of reaction of the pupils is very frequent and often very persistent. Paralysis of the third nerve on the one side and of the limbs on the other side ("crossed paralysis") is not uncommon, from pressure of the morbid tissue, especially if a definite gumma is present, on the motor tracts in the crus as well as on the third nerve. Next to the optic and third nerves, the trigeminal nerve suffers most frequently. There is often very severe facial neuralgia, and later anjesthesia of the face and cornea, and ulceration of the cornea. The seventh and eighth cranial nerves are not in- frequently affected, giving rise to facial paralysis and deafness, sometimes bilateral. When the meningitis affects the side of the medulla, a unilateral affection of the bulbar nerves may occur, giving rise to conjoint palsy of the tongue, palate, and vocal cord on one side—a combination very suggestive of syphilitic basal meningitis (Gowers). 2. Syphilitic Diseases of the Convexity.—One symptom is generally very prominent, viz., violent, obstinate, often quite localised headache, frequently with tenderness of the skull at the spot. The motor region of the cortex is affected with special frequency : hence Jacksonian epi- lepsy is common, and, later, paralysis of the opposite limbs (monoplegia or hemiplegia); so muscular spasms, tremors, contractures are often present. From affection of other parts of the cortex such other symptoms as aphasia, hemianopsia, etc., are not uncommon. Mental disturbances may also be prominent. Diagnosis.—In the basal form a combination of obstinate headache, with symptoms of paralysis of certain cranial nerves, especially the optic and third nerves, is most characteristic. Where the disease is on the convexity, a severe localised headache with tenderness of the skull and cortical symptoms (epilepsy, monoplegia) are very suggestive. But any other slowly progressive lesion—for instance, a tumour—in the same situations might cause the same symptoms. What specially characterises the course of the syphilitic affection is the great tendency to repeated remission and relapse of the symptoms. This variability from day to day is often very striking, e.g. in the mental condition, the visual disturbances and affections of other cranial nerves, the paralyses of the limbs. This characteristic of the symptoms, especially if these suggest multiple lesions, should always arouse the suspicion of syphilis, and it may be confirmed by the result of antisyphilitic treatment. Prognosis.—As far as the specific affection of the meninges is concerned, the prognosis is good. Persistent treatment not infrequently results in a complete cure. The danger of a relapse must be remembered, and also the fact that the symptoms may be in part due to concomitant affection of the vessels, the effects of which are permanent. Treatvient.—The usual antisyphilitic remedies must be energetically administered; this is indicated, even if thei-e is only a suspicion of syphilis. The various methods of administering mercury need not be detailed here. Probably the best plan is to give both mercury and iodide of potassium—either both internally, or the iodide internally combined with inunction of mercurial ointment. With regard to the dosage of potassium iodide, it is questionable if the heroic doses advocated in America are more efficacious than moderate doses, say 10 to 20, or at most 30 grains thrice daily. There are no special measures for treating the individual symptoms.315 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM Tumours ot the Meninges With the exception of gliomata, any form of cerebral tumour (vide " Brain, Tumours of," vol. i.) may spring from the meninges. Syphilitic tumours or gummata almost always start from the meninges, and sarcomata (often multiple) are more common outside than within the brain, usually springing from the meninges or the bone, especially at the base of the cranium. The great majority of meningeal tumours belong to one or other of these two groups. Tuberculous tumours are generally found inside the brain. It is not clear how far the statement is true that these always spring from a fold of the pia mater; occasionally they spring from the dura mater—chiefly secondary to tuberculous bone disease. Car- cinomata may spring from the dura mater, but not usually from the ventricles. Rarer forms of meningeal tumour are psammomata, usually springing from the dura at the base or from the choroid plexuses; osteomata, chiefly found in the falx cerebri; fibromata, lipomata, cholestea- tomata, chondromata, dermoid cysts, parasitic cysts. Special attention must be drawn to the frequency of tumours at the base of the brain, generally of a sarcomatous or carcinomatous nature, springing from the dura mater or the bone and, by pressure, causing symptoms in the region of the cranial nerves; the most frequent site is the petrous portion of the temporal bone, but the region of the sella turcica in the anterior fossa or the neighbourhood of the foramen magnum in the posterior fossa may be the seat of origin. The cerebral tissue suffers either from simple compression, as in most cases of sarcomata, or from direct invasion by the new growth, as in syphilitic tumours. There is generally a zone of inflammation of the membranes, especially of the pia arachnoid, around the tumour, sometimes extending to a considerable distance from it. There may be much local thickening and matting together of the membranes, as in syphilitic growths; while widespread, acute meningitis often occurs in tuberculous growths. Symptoms.—It is especially in cases of slowly- growing tumour, springing from the membranes and merely compressing the brain, that cerebral tumour may run a latent course or have but very trifling symptoms. External signs of a tumour are rare : occasion- ally, a growth from the dura may actually penetrate the bone of the skull and appear as a swelling on the surface. A tumour of the base of the brain has been thus recognised in the palate, and, more often, protrusion of the eyeball has been caused from invasion of the orbit. The symptoms of a tumour affecting the meninges over the convexity are naturally of a cortical nature, and they are most definite when the motor region of the cortex is the site of the growth. Thus, convulsions or subjective sensations commencing locally {e.g. in one part of a limb or in the face) and, later, perhaps spreading so as to involve the whole of that side of the body, or even both sides, are the characteristic symptoms of cortical irritation. Occasionally the discharge is from the centres for the special senses, when the tumour im- plicates the meninges over these centres. Cortical paralysis is similarly characterised by being of a local nature, limited in range— one limb or the face perhaps being alone affected. The irritative symptoms occur earlier, and are throughout more prominent than the signs of paralysis, especially where the tumour merely compresses the brain without invading it. In such a case, also, optic neuritis is oftener absent than in cerebral tumour generally. One feature of importance in the diagnosis of a meningeal tumour has still to be mentioned, viz., the site of the headache is usually a definite, fixed one, and corresponds to the situation of the disease, and, what is still more important, pressure or percussion of the skull at that spot causes pain. Where this local pain and tender- ness occur as an early or the first symptom of disease, and the symptoms of cortical implica- tion are mainly or solely of an irritative nature, the diagnosis of a meningeal growth may be entertained. The great symptoms of a tumour of the base are signs of irritation or paralysis of the cranial nerves. These signs appear earlier than the effects of implication of the overlying brain tissue itself, generally a motor paralysis—a fact of considerable importance in deciding whether the tumour is in the meninges or inside the neighbouring brain substance {e.g. pons or medulla). Another helpful point is that meningeal tumours tend to cause remark- ably little mental disturbance. Optic neuritis is often absent. In tumour of the 7niddle fossa, springing from the dura over the petrous bone—the most common site of origin of a basal meningeal tumour—the fifth cranial nerve is specially liable to suffer, thus giving rise to symptoms of its irritation and paralysis, such as pain and anaesthesia about the face, neuro-paralytic ophthalmia, etc. Symptoms of affection of the nerves to the ocular muscles of the facial and auditory nerves may also be present, from extension of the growth or of the meningeal inflammation excited by it. Convulsions are not common. In tumour of the posterior fossa, the nerves springing from the pons and medulla suffer, on one or both sides. The facial and auditory nerves are often affected simultaneously. There is frequently internal strabismus from implica- tion of the sixth nerve. Paralysis of the tongue.316 MENINGES OF THE CEREBRUM palate, and larynx are also very common from pressure on the bulbar nerves. Convulsions are not uncommon when the tumour is near the pons, and symptoms of paralysis in the limbs develop in the course of the case from pressure on the motor tracts. A special symptom, when the tumour affects the middle peduncle of the cerebellum as it passes from the pons, is an intense feeling of giddiness and a tendency to stagger to one side. In tumour of the anterior fossa, near the pituitary gland, the chief symptoms are visual, some form of defect of sight, such as bitemporal hemianopsia, unilateral or bilateral amblyopia or blindness, etc. There is often, for a long time, very little abnormal to be detected in the optic discs. Protrusion of the eye is not uncommon. Loss of smell frequently occurs. In marked compression or destruction of the frontal lobes, mental changes may be prominent. Treatment.—This differs in no wise from the treatment of cerebral tumours in general {vide " Brain, Tumours of," vol. i.). Recent de- velopments of cerebral surgery have made the prognosis in meningeal tumours somewhat less unfavourable than is the case with cerebral tumours generally, for, of all brain tumours, those springing from the meninges are most suitable for operative interference, provided that they occupy an accessible situation; in this respect, the most favourable are those growing from the meninges of the vertex and merely compressing the brain without invading it. Minor Conditions 1. Bony Formation in the Membranes {a) In the Dxcra Mater.—-Bony formations are found chiefly in the falx cerebri, usually in the form of irregularly shaped plates, with processes. As a rule they are small, but the whole falx has been found changed into bone, and, more rarely, plates of bone are seen in the dura over the vertex, covering the cortex like a cap. They have been noted as specially frequent in cases of epilepsy and general paralysis. Very little clinical interest can be attached to this condition, as it is not known to give rise to any special symptoms, except, perhaps, obstinate headache in some cases. With regard to the nature of the morbid process, some of these formations appear to be true osteomata; but the majority are regarded as of a chronic inflammatory nature, the result of an ossifying pachymeningitis. Mention may also be made of the fact that calcareous concretions are found not infrequently in meningeal tumours and sometimes in old hsematomata of the dura mater. (6) In the Pia Arachnoid. — Small, white plates of bony consistence are found with great frequency in the spinal arachnoid, but they occur very rarely in the cerebral membrane and, it is said, mainly or solely on the anterior portion of the convexity (Kroemer). They are generally regarded as of the nature of true bone, small osteomata; but they have also been ascribed to degenerative changes, not of the nature of calci- fication, in the fibrous tissue of the membrane. 2. Milkinbss and Thickening of the Pia Arachnoid The normal pia arachnoid is a quite trans- parent and very delicate membrane. Very frequently, however, it is found at an autopsy to be somewhat white, opaque, and thickened, either diffusely or in spots and streaks. This appearance in young children almost certainly indicates a former inflammation, but the same explanation cannot hold good of all cases. It is met with in chronic renal disease and chronic alcoholism, and the morbid change described in such cases is chiefly a simple overgrowth of the connective tissue or occasionally endothelial proliferation; it may also be produced by dis- turbances of circulation, oft-repeated congestive conditions, and particularly by venous engorge- ment (Ziegler). These changes in the appearance of the pia arachnoid are, however, more specially character- istic of mental diseases. According to different authorities, they are present in a greater or less degree in 50 to 70 per cent of all persons dying insane, while they are practically constant in some forms of insanity, especially general para- lysis and senile insanity. The appearance is most marked over the convexity near the large veins. The morbid changes usually described are a round-cell infiltration of the tissues of the pia arachnoid with overgrowth of its fibrous elements, and, as these are regarded as indicative of inflammation, the condition is generally held to be a chronic meningitis. Ford Robertson, however, maintains that the changes are not truly inflammatory, but are brought about by proliferative and degenerative changes of the endothelial cells of the pia arachnoid, combined with a slow overgrowth of its fibrous tissues. The tissue changes, he believes, are the same as those which occur in the dura mater in the same class of cases {vide Hsematoma of the Dura Mater, p. 308), and the essential cause of both is held to be a change in the composition of the cerebro-spinal fluid, consequent on ab- normal metabolism of the cerebral tissues, the pia arachnoid and dura mater alike being re- garded as dependent for their nutrition on the cerebro-spinal fluid. Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic. Introduction . . . . . .317 Tuberculous Meningitis— Etiology 317 Symptoms . . . . .317 Prognosis . . . . .319MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 317 Tuberculous Meningitis (contd.)— Diagnosis . . . . .319 Pathology and Morbid Anatomy . 320 Treatment 321 Posterior Basic Meningitis— Etiology 321 Symptoms ..... 322 Complications ..... 322 Prognosis . . . . .323 Pathology and Morbid Anatomy . 323 Diagnosis . . . . .323 Treatment ..... 324 Meningitis, by which term is usually meant a leptomeningitis or inflammation of the pia arachnoid, as opposed to pachymeningitis or inflammation of the dura mater, may be due to various causes, and to some extent it is possible to differentiate clinical varieties cor- responding with differences of etiology. The most important factor in the etiology of meningitis is bacterial infection; and although any complete clinical classification corresponding with bacteriological differences is at present impossible, certain forms of this disease are now known to be due to specific micro-organisms. In this way tuberculous and so-called cerebro- spinal meningitis, together with the closely- allied disease of infants, posterior basic menin- gitis, are now recognised as quite distinct from those conditions which are due to the various pyogenic micro - organisms, and which are grouped together under the name suppurative meningitis. The meninges of the spinal cord and of the brain are continuous structures, and any inflammation which affects primarily one part of the meninges may spread to the remaining portion. Any form of meningitis may be, and often is, cerebro-spinal in distribution. The term meningitis must be understood to include not only the cerebral, but also the spinal meninges. In any form of meningitis the mode of infection varies in different cases. Three routes of infection can be recognised—(i.) direct, e.g. infection through a wound or a sloughing spina bifida, or a carious petrous bone; (ii.) by the lymphatics, e.g. from the naso-pharynx, or middle ear; (iii.) by the blood, e.g. in such general infections as pyaemia, typhoid, and some forms of tuberculosis. It is, however, often difficult to determine the exact route of infection in any particular case. Perhaps one of the most striking features in the etiology of meningitis is the influence of age. Meningitis is far commoner in infancy and early childhood than at any other period of life. It has been suggested that this special age incidence is related to frequency of infec- tion from the middle ear. The patency of the petrosquamosal suture, and the venous communication afforded by the petrosquamosal sinus, especially in infancy and early cliildhood —a point recently emphasised by Mr. Arthur Cheatle—bring the middle ear into very close relation with the meninges. There is, however, no satisfactory evidence that sucla infection is common; indeed, it seems probable that infection from the ear is rather the exception than the rule. In the present article tuberculous and posterior basic meningitis will be considered, and it will be well to deal with them separately, for they differ not only in their morbid ana- tomy and bacteriology, but also in their clinical features. Tuberculous Meningitis Etiology.—Age, Sex, etc.—Tuberculous men- ingitis is rare under six months of age; it has its maximum frequency in the second year of life, and then gradually becomes less frequent. After the age of ten years tuberculous meningitis is uncommon ; it is, however, less rare in young adults than in middle or later life. There is little difference in the liability of the sexes. Several observers have noticed a slightly greater frequency amongst boys than girls. Some statistics taken by the writer at the Hospital for Sick Children showed sixty-two boys to fifty-seven girls. No special seasonal variation has been observed. Predisposing and Exciting Causes.—It seems likely that, as in other tuberculous cases, local injury in a tuberculous subject may favour the onset of tuberculous meningitis; certainly it sometimes follows shortly after a blow or fall upon the head. Tissue proclivity also in certain families is probably a factor in localising the incidence of tubercle. It happens not very rarely that more than one child in a family will die with this particular form of tuberculosis. Tuberculous meningitis sometimes begins within a few weeks after one of the specific fevers, especially after measles or whooping- cough; a similar sequence has been reported after erythema nodosum, a sequence which the writer himself has observed. In these, as in other cases, it is almost, if not quite, invariably found that some tuberculous lesion of older date is present, which had remained latent until roused into fresh activity by the occurrence of a specific fever. A point of considerable practical importance is the occurrence of tuberculous meningitis after surgical operations, such as removal of tuberculous glands ; probably a scraping operation, or the infection of the wound with broken-down caseous material, is more likely to be followed by meningitis than a clean excision of the tuberculous focus. The exciting cause in all cases is the bacillus tuberculosis. Symptoms. — In the common form of this disease, where clinically the meningeal affectionMENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 318 appears to be primary, the onset is insidious. The child seems ailing ; it is drowsy and fretful, and perhaps refuses its food for a week or more before any serious illness is suspected. Complaint of headache begins early; the headache is severe and more or less continuous. In younger children, screaming—sometimes sudden and sharp, sometimes more prolonged— especially at night, is a common symptom. In some cases—but these usually in the older children—delirium, varying from the mildest rambling up to the noisiest excitement, is an early symptom. Vomiting, without apparent cause, almost always occurs in the early stage, and at this period is sometimes the most conspicuous feature, so that the case may be mistaken for one of gastric disturbance. Constipation is present from the onset of the illness. The temperature at first may be somewhat raised, but is seldom high; it may, indeed, be normal, or only slightly above the normal throughout. The presence, however, of tuberculosis in the lungs or elsewhere may give rise to irregular pyrexia. Soon the child ceases to sit up; it lies in bed cixrled up on its side, with the face turned away from the light, with its legs drawn up, and flexed at hips and knees, and its arms flexed at the elbows and adducted. The mental condi- tion is one of extreme irritability: the child resents any disturbance, crying out passionately, " Go away!" if any one touches him, and dragging the bed-clothes pettishly over himself if any one attempts to uncover him. There is often some stiffness of the neck at this stage; the child resents any flexion of the head towards the sternum. Definite head retraction, however, is unusual, and any marked head retraction, such as is the rule in posterior basic meningitis, is quite the exception in tuber- culous meningitis. The anterior fontanelle in infants shows some fulness or bulging early in the disease. Some strabismus is usually noticeable at this period, and paralysis of other cranial nerves is common ; the pupils may be contracted or unequal, and ptosis or less often facial paralysis may be present. Paralysis or paresis of limbs is not very rare, but occurs most often towards the end of the disease. It may have any distribu- tion ; probably most often it is monoplegic. In some cases it is one of the earliest symptoms. It may disappear or shift from one limb to another after a few days. Associated movements of limbs are occasion- ally noticeable. For instance, passive flexion of one elbow will produce flexion of the elbow on the opposite side. Tremor is often present, especially in the hands, and is specially noticeable if the child is raised into the sitting posture. In the earlier stage, whilst the child is still able to walk, a coarse ataxy of arms and legs is sometimes seen. Restless, purposive movements of the hands are often present before coma is complete; the child plucks tremulously at the lips or at the genitals. The abdomen is flattened or even concave, so that it has the scooped-out appearance which has been described as " carinated." Vomiting often ceases after the first few days of the illness, but constipation persists throughout. The pulse is now abnormally slow and gener- ally markedly irregular; in many cases the cardiac rhythm and rate seem to be influenced strongly and very irregularly by the respiration. Vaso-motor disturbance may be evident in the bright-red flush which appears where the skin is pressed or even gently scratched (tache cerebrale); and this becomes even more notice- able during the last few days of the illness, when a deep flush may extend all over the face, and sometimes over the upper part of the trunk and arms. The so-called tache cerebrale is by no means peculiar to tuberculous meningitis, in which, however, it is seldom absent: it is met with also in several other conditions. Gradually irritability is replaced by uncon- sciousness. The decubitus changes from the lateral to the dorsal. The face becomes flushed, and sometimes beads of sweat appear on the forehead. Rigidity of limbs may be present, but the flexion usually disappears; the child lies with arms and legs extended, often with the hands crossed palm downwards over the hypo- gastrium. Paralysis of limbs is common at this stage, or one limb may be paralysed and another rigid. Convulsions, which are not fre- quent in the earlier part of the disease, often occur at the end of the illness. Sometimes the convulsions are general; sometimes there are only occasional twitchings of the limbs. The pupils are widely dilated, and react sluggishly, if at all, to light; ptosis and stra- bismus are usually present. Slow movements of the eyes, independently of one another, are common. Nystagmus is not frequent in tuberculous meningitis. During the last few days of life muco-pus collects on the cornea, which may even show linear ulceration at its lower margin owing to its unprotected condition from non-closure of the eyelids. Ophthalmoscopic examination during the later stage of tuberculous meningitis often shows a moderate degree of optic neuritis ; the neiiritis is seldom severe, and it is seldom present in the earlier stages of the disease. Tubercle of the choroid, in the writer's experience, is rare, except in those cases where tuberculous menin- gitis is part of general acute miliary tubercu- losis ; in these, tubercle of the choroid is usually present. The knee-jerks, which in the earlier part of the disease show no special alteration, are some- times absent during the last few days.319 MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC Vomiting, which commonly has ceased after the first week or ten days of the illness, in many cases returns towards the end. The patient also ceases to swallow, and it becomes necessary to feed by tube. The urine and fseces are passed under the patient during the greater part of the illness. During the last few days the urine is often retained, so that considerable distension of the bladder may occur. The urine in tuberculous meningitis is usually unaltered; but rarely it contains a reducing body, which in some cases is certainly sugar. The pulse, previously slow, now gradually increases in rapidity, and before death may be 220-230 per minute; it also loses the irregu- larity which was noticeable earlier. Respiration is now sighing or grunting, or there may be a hissing sound as frothy saliva collects between the lips, or a rattling noise may be produced by the accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes. The Cheyne-Stokes type of respiration is common, or some less rhythmical irregularity may be observed. The breath often has a sweetish offensive odour, due to the collection of sordes in the mouth. As the end approaches the temperature commonly rises, and hyperpyrexia frequently occurs just before death. From this description it will be seen that tviberculous meningitis can be divided into three stages—(i.) premonitory, (ii.) irritative, (iii.) paralytic. The last two have been sup- posed to correspond respectively with the period of cortical irritation by the inflammation of the pia arachnoid and the period of compression by increased fluid in the ventricles. For practical purposes, however, such a division has little value, for there is no sharp line of distinction between the several stages; indeed, any one of them may be lacking. To some extent the symptoms vary with age, and with associated conditions. In the later years of childhood, and still more in adult life, the mental symptoms are apt to be conspicuous. Change of disposition, delirivim, mental confusion or excitement, the use of wrong words, or even aphasia or symptoms closely resembling hysteria or insanity, may be the first manifestation of the disease; and as these may last several days before any evidence of meningeal affection appears, they have given rise to serious errors in diagnosis. In infancy premonitory symptoms are often much less marked than in older children, and the disease is more likely to begin with a general convulsion. In children who are already the subjects of chronic tuberculous disease—for example, in the joints or peritoneum—the supervention of tuberculous meningitis may be entirely latent until a day or two, or even a few hours before death. In such cases the first symptoms may be a convulsion, followed rapidly by coma and death. In some cases, where only scattered tubercles are found in the meninges, as is common in general acute miliary tuberculosis, no symp- toms specially pointing to meningeal aff'ection have been observed during life. Prognosis.—There is some doubt as to whether recovery ever occurs in tuberculous meningitis. With the advance of clinical diff'erentiation it has become almost certain that some of the cases which have been recorded as recoveries from tuberculous meningitis were really cases of posterior basic meningitis, and much doubt attaches to others. There is no a priori reason why recovery should not occasionally occur. Perhaps the strongest evidence in favour of its occurrence is the fact that temporary recovery from symptoms of meningitis has been observed in several cases which some weeks or even months later fell ill again with similar symp- toms and died. Autopsy has revealed recent tuberculous meningitis and evidence of past meningitis. If, however, complete recovery ever occurs, it miist be extremely rare. The average duration of symptoms in ninety- five cases was eighteen days. Two to four weeks may be taken as the usual limits ; but, as already mentioned, in cases with other manifestations of tuberculosis, the meningeal symptoms may last only two or three days. In very rare cases the disease is prolonged into the eighth or ninth week. Diagnosis.—In the early stage the vomiting and loss of appetite in tuberculous meningitis are often mistaken for symptoms of some slight gastric disturbance. In those who are old enough to complain, the association of persistent and severe headache should arouse suspicion of meningitis; but in infants, in whom it is often impossible to recognise the presence of headache, the diagnosis may be impossible until the occurrence of some paralysis of cranial nerves or optic neuritis points to intracranial disease. FiUness of the anterior fontanelle and irregularity of the pulse are early indications of meningitis. The association of persistent vomiting with obstinate constipation has sometimes raised the question of laparotomy for supposed intestinal obstruction. The fact that the vomiting, although intractable, is not severe, and is often unaccompanied by effort or retching, and is to a large extent independent of food, may serve to distinguish it from the vomiting of intestinal obstruction ; whilst the presence of severe head- ache, and perhaps of irregularity of the pulse, and in some cases optic neuritis, would point to meningitis. At this period also the predominance of mental symptoms in some cases, especially in older children and adults, must be remembered. Tuberculous meningitis has been mistaken for acute delirious mania, for delirium tremens, and for hysteria. In some cases the presence ofMENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 320 optic neuritis may make an early diagnosis possible, in others this is determined only by the occurrence of paralysis of cranial nerves. From cerebral tumour meningitis is distin- guished by its more rapid course, the more irregular paralysis of cranial nerves, and by the absence in most cases of optic neuritis during the early period of the disease. Operations for supposed cerebral abscess have been performed in some cases of tuberculous meningitis. The mistake has been due to the association of discharge from one or both ears with symptoms of intracranial disease. With abscess, however, paralysis is likely to be con- fined to one side, or hemiplegia may be associated with paralysis of third nerve on the opposite side. In the writer's experience chronic dis- charge from the middle ear in children has been associated much more often with tuberculous meningitis than with suppurative meningitis or cerebral abscess. Both typhoid and pneumonia may closely simulate tuberculous meningitis. In children typhoid is frequently associated with constipation rather than diarrhoea ; and the presence also of severe headache and slight delirium, together with extreme irritability in some cases, may make an immediate diagnosis impossible. Where diarrhoea is present, this, together with the character of the stools, may point to typhoid; persistent vomiting points rather to meningitis. The abdomen in typhoid is tumid, the spleen enlarged, and the characteristic " rose-spots" are seen, whereas in tuberculous meningitis the abdomen is flat or concave, the spleen usually not felt, and the rash is absent. In typhoid, decubitus is commonly dorsal ; in meningitis the patient lies curled up on his side. " Stocker's sign " is also of some value : in the tuberculous disease the patient resents any attempt to pull the bed-clothes down, and pulls them hastily over him again, whereas in typhoid the patient scarcely notices the uncovering. Irregularity or slowness of pulse, irregular or low tempera- ture, and still more, the occurrence of paralysis of cranial nerves or the presence of optic neuritis or of tubercle of the choroid, would point strongly to tuberciilous meningitis. The confusion with pneumonia is more likely to arise in children than adults, for in the former lobar pneumonia almost always begins with vomiting, which, with the severe headache and drowsiness and, especially in apical cases, some delirium, may suggest meningitis. The distin- guishing features in such cases are the acute onset, the pungently hot skin, with flushed cheeks and bright eyes, the rapidity of the re- spiration, and often even before definite physical signs of pneumonia appear some slight alteration of breath sounds or note at some part of the lungs. When the first symptom of tuberculous menin- gitis is paralysis of one or more limbs this has been mistaken for infantile paralysis ; but the presence of severe headache and vomiting, with irregularity of the pulse, and later some affection of cranial nerves, would point to meningitis. The converse error sometimes occurs where the onset of infantile paralysis is associated with convulsions, vomiting, and much constitutional disturbance; but the more acute onset, the absence of other symptoms of meningitis, such as irritability, irregularity of pulse, and paralysis of cranial nerves, and the subsequent course of the case soon clear up the diagnosis. Tuberculous meningitis has to be distinguished also from other forms of meningitis, particu- larly posterior basic and suppurative. The diagnosis from the former will be considered below. Suppurative meningitis is characterised chiefly by its much more rapid course, and especially by the fact that it is almost always secondary to some obvious source of infection— most commonly some form of pneumococcal disease, such as pneumonia or empyema, or some form of pyfemia or other general infection. ^The use of lumbar puncture as a means of diagnosis may perhaps be justifiable in very rare cases ; but even if tubercle bacilli are present in the fluid it would seem that they are sometimes present in such small numbers that it is very difficult to demonstrate them, and inoculation of some animal may be necessary to make the examination of any value. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — It is customary to speak of a " primary " and " secondary " tuberculous meningitis, meaning by " primary " those cases in which there is no other clinical manifestation of tuberculosis ; but it is very doubtful whether the disease is ever primary. Almost, if not quite invariably, care- ful examination reveals some focus of tubercu- lous disease elsewhere in the body: it may be a single caseous bronchial or cervical gland, or some small and unsuspected area of caseation in the hmg. The presence almost always of some distant tuberculous lesion which is evidently of older date than the meningeal infection suggests that in most cases the meningitis is the result of a blood infection. In some cases there is direct infection from a tuberculous middle ear, and occasionally a deposit of tubercle in the meninges starts directly from a caseous tuber- culous mass in the superficial part of the brain substance. The vertex of the brain may show nothing abnormal beyond some flattening of the convolu- tions, or there may be scattered grey or yellow tubercles along the sulci, especially over the anterior part of the cerebrum. The tuberculous deposit is chiefly at the base, about the optic chiasma, the interpeduncular space, and along the Sylvian fissures. The pia arachnoid in these situations is matted and opaque, with much grey and yellow tubercle, and in some cases there is also considerable exudation of yellowish321 MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC lymph. Tubercles are also frequent on the inferior surface of the frontal lobes, and in the sulci of the anterior part of the median fissure. They are also commonly found on the anterior part of the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum, and sometimes on the velum inter- positum, the choroid flexures, and the ependyma of the lateral ventricles. The fluid in the ventricles is generally more than normal, but hardly in such excess as to constitute hydrocephalus. The corpus callosum and walls of the ventricles are usually much softened or even dilSuent. Tubercles, sometimes with definite meningitis, are frequently present on the membranes of the spinal cord. The writer found tubercle here in fifteen out of twenty-two cases in which the cord was examined. The tuberculous process on the surface of the brain is accompanied in some cases by vascular lesions in the deeper parts, the vessels being obstructed by pressure or by direct invasion of their lumen by the tuberculous deposit which extends along the perivascular sheaths. The resulting thrombosis may cause areas of softening or hsemorrhage in the substance of the brain. Caseous masses in the substance of the brain are also not uncommon ; the writer found them in 18 per cent of cases of tuberculous meningitis. Whilst the above description applies to the majority of cases, it is not very rare, especially in cases where acute miliarj^ tuberculosis is present in the rest of the body, to find only a few scattered tubercles in the meninges, with little or no meningitis, even where meningeal symptoms have been well marked during life. Treatment.—Perhaps the chief dilficulty in the treatment of this disease is to fight against one's half-belief that any treatment is useless. Certainly in face of the several recorded cases of temporary recovery, and some, perhaps, of permanent cure, it is only right that vigorous treatment should be tried in every case. The child should be kept in bed in a quiet, darkened room; an ice-bag or Leiter's coils should be applied to the head, and mercury should be administered freely, either by in- unction as unguentum hydrargyri, of which a drachm may be applied to the abdomen every evening under a flannel binder, with directions that the ointment shall be washed off each morning, or internally as the liquor hydrargyri perchloridi in full doses, according to the age. Potassium iodide given internally in large doses has seemed to do good in some cases. For the relief of headache, if the application of cold fails to relieve it, the use of leeches behind the ears may be tried ; such drugs as phenazone and phenacetin maj' also be useful. For restlessness or convulsions, bromides or chloral should be given. Vomiting seems to be relieved sometimes by cold applications to the back of the head and neck ; an aperient dose of VOL. VI calomel may cause it to cease. Feeding soon becomes difficult in most cases, and nasal feeding must be adopted. Various operative measures have been tried, chiefly with the idea of diminishing intracranial pressure, and thus, perhaps, assisting recovery; removal of cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture and tapping the lateral ventricles directly through a trephine hole or through the anterior foutanelle are the measures which have been tried most frequently : but beyond some very brief amelioration of symptoms the results have not been encoui'aging. Posterior Basic Meningitis The name posterior basic meningitis has been applied of recent years to a non-tuberculous form of meningitis which occurs chiefly in infants. The name might imply that ana- tomical distribution was the distinguishing feature of this form of meningitis, but, as has been pointed out above, any such method of classification would be highly unsatisfactory; and it is on bacteriological grounds, not on account of any anatomical distribution, that posterior basic meningitis is now recognised as distinct from other forms of meningitis. While, however, this variety can be sharply diff"erentiated from tuberculous and suppurative meningitis, and from the meningeal affections of syphilis, the relation of the posterior basic disease to the so-called cerebro-sj^inal meningitis is not yet accurately determined; it seems probable that these two forms of meningitis, if not identical, are at least extremely closely allied. Etiology.—Age, Sex, Season.—Posterior basic meningitis has its maximum frequency during the first nine months of life. It frequently occurs during the first six months of life, at which age tuberculous meningitis is uncom- mon ; and it becomes much less frequent in the second year, when the tuberculous form has its maximum frequency. Unlike tuberculous and suppurative menin- gitis, the posterior basic disease has a very marked seasonal variation, being most frequent during the cold season—the winter months and early spring. There is no marked difference in the incidence on the sexes. Predisposing and Exciting Causes.—Whether local injury in any way predisposes to this disease is uncertain, but there is frequently a history of some fall or blow on the head pre- ceding the onset of the disease; and it seems possible that here, as in other forms of menin- gitis, a temporary lowering of resistance to the invasion of bacteria may result from the injury. The exciting cause of posterior basic menin- gitis is a diplococcus, which can be sharply differentiated from the pneumococcus, but dif- fers only in very slight points from the diplo- coccus intracellularis of epidemic cerebro-spiual meningitis. 21MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 322 Symptoms. — The onset of posterior basic meningitis is almost always acute. The first symptoms are visually vomiting and head re- traction ; in some cases a convulsion or sudden screaming ushers in the disease. Head retraction, if not the first symptom, is usually present within a few days after the onset, and throughout the disease continues a prominent feature. The degree of retraction varies considerably, not only in individual cases, but also in the same case from day to day; it is sometimes so extreme that the occiput almost touches the upper dorsal spines, and in cases where the opisthotonos is not limited to the cervical spine, the occipiit may nearly touch the sacrum. These extreme cases, however, are uncommon. Much more often the head is drawn back so that there is two to three fingers' breadth between the occiput and upper dorsal spines. In very rare cases head re- traction is absent throughout the illness. Fulness of the anterior fontanelle is usually an early symptom, and may be of considerable value in diagnosis. The fulness at this stage, however, is less than at a later period when increasing hydrocephalus is present. After the first few days the infant lies quietly on its side, with the head drawn back, taking- little or no interest in its surroundings. Any attempt to push the head forward makes the child cry, and for this reason the infant will cry if made to lie on its back. Except at the onset of the disease, and occa- sionally just before death, general clonic con- vulsions are uncommon, but some rigidity is very frequent; the limbs are usually extended, or only very slightly flexed; the legs are spas- modically adducted, whilst the shoulders are strongly retracted, and the forearms often superpronated so that the palms of the clenched hands look outwards. Paralysis of limbs has only very rarely been observed. Champing movements of the lower jaw and sucking movements are common; and often there is grinding of the teeth as in other cere- bral affections. After a few weeks, sometimes earlier, the eyes have a staring appearance which is very noticeable and which seems to be due chiefly to spasmodic retraction of the upper eyelid. The vacancy of the stare may be due to actual blind- ness, which is present in about one-third of the cases; this blindness may supervene as early as one week after the onset of the disease, but probably more often is not present until at least the end of the third or fourth week of the ill- ness. It would seem to be entirely central in origin ; it is not dependent on any optic neuritis or atrophy. With this blindness the pupils react, though sluggishly, to light. Optic neu- ritis is very exceptional at any period of pos- terior basic meningitis. Strabismus is absent altogether in nearly half the cases, and even when present is rarely so marked as in tuber- culous meningitis. Paralysis of other cranial nerves is rare. Deafness has been noticed in a few cases. There is little evidence of any real hypersesthesia in most of the cases. During the later stages of the disease the tendon-jerks are sometimes increased. Constipation is a less marked feature than in tuberculous meningitis. Vomiting is usually more persistent than in the tuberculous disease. Wasting occurs in almost all cases; and where the disease is prolonged, emaciation may be extreme. The pulse throughout the illness is generally more rapid than normal, but shows no special tendency to irregularity. The respiration in the later stage often shows a rhythmical character, to which the name of " cyclical breathing " has been given. Its special feature consists in the alternation of long pauses with series of rapid respirations. It lacks the gradual rise and fall in the depth of the respirations which charac- terises the Cheyne-Stokes type of breathing. The temperature is almost always raised at the onset, and may remain continuously high for a week or more. It then gradually falls, and may be normal during the rest of the illness ; in very chronic cases with much emacia- tion it is often subnormal. In some cases, especially the more acute, there is irregular pyrexia of an intermittent or remittent type throughout the disease. A fatal termination is often preceded by a subnormal temperature or hyperpyrexia. Skin eruptions are rarely seen with posterior basic meningitis. At the onset of the disease labial herpes or a more generalised morbilliform rash has been observed, and in the later stage —perhaps chiefly in the more acute cases—a dusky mottled erythema has been seen. The occurrence of rashes, however, would seem to be miich less frequent in this disease than in the " cerebro-spinal meningitis " of later life. Complications.—Hydrocephalus is so frequent a result of posterior basic meningitis that it might almost be considered a symptom of the disease. In almost all cases which last longer than three or four weeks, this complication is present in sufficient degree to be noticeable clinically. An early sign of increasing intra- cranial pressure is the downward turning of the eyes so that the sclerotic is seen above the cornea, which is partly covered by the lower lid. The fontanelle also shows increased bul- ging, and careful and repeated measurements of the head show distinct increase in size, which may be obvious on inspection if the child lives for several months. Occasionally a curious form of periarthritis, and much more rarely arthritis, is seen in this disease. A dusky swelling appears about one joint or several; suppuration appears imminent.MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 323 but almost always the inflammation subsides spontaneously after a few days. Accidental complications such as diarrhoea and broncho- pneumonia are apt to occur in chronic cases, with much emaciation. Prognosis.—This form of meningitis is cer- tainly not always fatal. The proportion of recoveries has been estimated at about 10 per cent. Unfortunately, however, some of the cases that recover are left with mental impair- ment ; deafness also leading to deafmutism has resulted. The blindness has been observed to disappear entirely after several months in cases which recovered. In many cases the actual cause of death is rather the progx'essive hydrocephalus, and the emaciation and exhaustion which accompany it, than the inflammation of the meninges, which may indeed have completely subsided several weeks or months before the fatal result. Corresponding probably with this difference in the cause of death, the fatal cases can be divided into two groups—those in which death occurs within three to five weeks from the onset of the disease, and those in which it occurs after three to four months or later. The prognosis is worse in very young infants than in those who are older. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy. — Unlike tuberculous and suppurative meningitis, this disease shows in almost all cases only the meningeal lesion and its local results, and in this sense might be called a primary meningitis. The route of infection has not yet been ascer- tained ; but it seems possible that, as has been suggested by Dr. Lees for cases of vertical suppurative meningitis, the infection in posterior basic meningitis may in some cases pass from the nose by way of the lymphatics, which have been shown (Key and Retzius) to have a very direct communication with those of the men- inges. In favour of this view one might urge that in some cases a slight catarrh of the upper air-passages has preceded the onset of the meningeal symptoms. Moreover, in the very closely allied condition, epidemic cerebro-spinal meningitis, the specific micro-organism of that disease has been demonstrated in the nasal secretion by several observers. At present, however, in the case of posterior basic menin- gitis, there is no bacteriological evidence to prove infection either from the nose or from the ear. The characteristic lesion in this disease is an exudation of lymph at the base of the brain, chiefly about the medulla, the reflexion of arachnoid between the medulla and cerebellum, and the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It extends forward also over the pons to the optic chiasma, and there is often a patch of exudation at the anterior inferior part of each temporo- sphenoidal lobe. A similar exudation is present in most cases on the spinal cord, especially in the lumbar region on the posterior (dorsal) surface. Rarely the exudation extends up along the sulci almost or quite up to the vertex of the brain. There is flattening of the convolutions owing to increase of the intra- ventricular cerebro-spinal fluid. In the most acute cases there is often a collection of yellowish exudation at the bottom of the cornua of each lateral ventricle, sometimes also in the third and fourth ventricles; the ependyma in such cases is swollen, red, and opaque. The occurrence of inflammation between the inferior surface of the cerebellum and the medulla, which is the most constant feature in the morbid anatomy of posterior basic menin- gitis, determines the occurrence of some degree of hydrocephalus in almost every case; for the exudation may be so abundant as to block the foramina of Luschka and Magendie, or these may be blocked as the result of adhesions, which in some cases bind the cerebellum firmly on to the medulla, and may even obliterate the lower portion of the fourth ventricle. In either case the obstruction to the path of the cerebro- spinal fluid results in distension of the lateral and third and fourth ventricles. In rare cases the iter becomes blocked by inflammation of its lining membrane, and in this way only the lateral and third ventricles become distended. In some cases all exudation has disappeared long before death occurs, and only the resulting opacity and thickening of the pia arachnoid remain together with considerable matting of parts by adhesions, especially between the medulla and cerebellum, so that steadily in- creasing hydrocephalus has been the cause of death. In cases where periarthritis has occuri'ed an exudation exactly similar to that occurring in the meninges has been found about the tendon sheaths in the neighbourhood of the joint. The joint itself appears to be normal in most cases, but evidence of synovitis and chondritis has been observed by the writer in one case. The periarthritic exudation has been shown to be due to the specific micro-organism of posterior basic meningitis. Besides the lesions described nothing abnormal is found in other organs, except such lesions as are due to accidental complications. Diagnosis.—From tuberculous meningitis the posterior basic form is distinguished by the earlier age at which it occurs ; the more sudden onset; the persistence of marked head retrac- tion ; the slightness or absence of paralysis of cranial nerves; the occurrence of blindness, and the absence of optic neuritis and of tubercle of the choroid; and, lastly, its more chronic course. Posterior basic meningitis is usually easily distinguished from suppurative meningitis by its much slower course—the former lasts several weeks or months, the latter only a few days—MENINGITIS, TUBERCULOUS AND POSTERIOR BASIC 324 and by the absence of any obvious source of infection, such as is ahnost invariably present with suppurative meningitis, whether it be due to pneumonia, empyema, or to some more general infection, such as pysemia. From " cerebro-spinal meningitis" it shows but slight clinical differences. In its epidemic form cerebro - spinal meningitis affects chiefly the older children and young adults, whereas posterior basic meningitis affects almost ex- clusively infants in the first year of life. The rashes, which are common in the former, are rare in the latter ; and certain minor symptoms, such as conjunctivitis, deafness, and hyper- sesthesia, which are common in " cerebro-spinal meningitis," are rare in the disease of infants ; and, lastly, the cerebro-spinal form would seem to be usually much more acute and more rapid in its fatal issue than posterior basic meningitis. Head retraction, although the most charac- teristic feature of posterior basic meningitis, may occur without any intracranial disease. Reflex irritation from dentition, or from inflam- mation in the middle ear, may cause marked head retraction. Dyspnoea also in infants, whether due to disease in the chest or to fluid or solid tumour, filling up the abdomen and interfering with the action of the diaphragm, is sometimes associated with retraction of the head, probably to facilitate the use of the extra- ordinary muscles of respiration. In rare cases head retraction is an early symptom of cervical caries. Both head retraction and rigidity of limbs are sometimes seen with chronic en- cephalitis after injury, and also in some cases of idiocy. Treatment. — In some of the cases which have recovered, inunction of the unguentum hydrargyri has been used, and it seems possible that both mercury and potassium iodide may promote absorption of the meningeal exudation, an important indication in this disease; for, as already pointed out, the mere mechanical effects of the exudation and the resulting adhesions may be more serious than the actual meningitis. The persistent vomiting may be checked in some cases by the application of an ice-bag to the back of the head and neck, or minute doses of dilute hydrocyanic acid may be tried. Every effort should be made to maintain nutrition. If necessary, nasal feeding must be used, for complications, such as diarrhoea and broncho- pneumonia, are more likely to occur if the infant becomes emaciated. In the prolonged cases also the occurrence of bed-sores must be guarded against. Extract of malt or cod-liver oil is valuable in these cases and also in con- valescence, for even in the favourable cases there is generally much wasting before the subsidence of symptoms. During the last few years attempts have been made to treat this disease surgically ; and there are,some grounds for believing that in cases where the meningitis has subsided, and the con- tinuance of symptoms is due to the resulting hydrocephalus, surgical treatment may occasion- ally be successful. No good has resulted from surgical interference during the early stage of the disease; but in one case improvement, and in another case a cure, has been obtained by drainage of the lateral ventricles several weeks after the onset of the illness. Recently, in accordance with the suggestion of Dr. Sutherland and Mr. Watson Cheyne, attempts have been made to establish a permanent communication between the lateral ventricles and the subdural space, whence the fluid may be removed by the Pacchionian bodies ; external drainage is thus entirely avoided. The results, however, have been disappointing ; whichever method of drain- age has been adopted there is a tendency to hyperpyrexia, which often proves fatal a few hours after the operation. Whether surgical interference is advisable in any particular case must depend chiefly upon the presence or absence of symptoms of increas- ing hydrocephalus, and upon the general con- dition of the infant. In any case it is only right to warn the parents that in the majority of cases the operation has been followed by a fatal result within a few days. (See also "Hydrocephalus," vol. iv.) Mening^itis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal. Definition ...... 324 History ....... 324 Characters of the Fever . . . 325 Sporadic Form .... 325 Bacteriology ...... 326 Symptoms ...... 326 Diagnosis 330 (a) From other Diseases . . . 330 (b) From other Forms of Meningitis . 330 Prognosis . . . • . .331 Treatment ...... 331 Cerebro-Spinal Fever Definition.—An acute, infectious disease, with the clinical characters of a cerebro-spinal menin- gitis, recurring in epidemics, and constantly present in sporadic form in many communities. There is associated with it a specific organism— the diplococcus intracellularis of Weichselbaum. History.—The disease was recognised first in 1805 in Geneva by Vieusseaux, though pre- vious to this, in histories of epidemics, cases are described of a similar character. In 1806 the disease was recognised in the United States, where it soon became widely prevalent. Hirsch divides the outbreak into the following periods:— First, 1805 to 1830—more prevalent in the United States than in Europe. Second, 1837 to 1850 — in many parts of Europe, and in the United States.325 MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL Third, 1854 to 1874—in many widely-scat- tered districts in Europe, particularly in Sweden, Germany, and Russia. In the United States and Canada there were very many outbreaks. Fourth, 1876 to 1884—limited outbreaks in many parts of Europe, not so widespread or severe as in the third period. In the United States there were a few small outbi'eaks. We are at present in a fifth wave or period. Within the past few years there have been epidemics in many places in Germany and France, and many small epidemics in the United States. In the United Kingdom cerebro-spinal fever has never been a very serious or widespread disease. In an appendix to his ai'ticle in All- butt's System Ormerod gives a full statement of the outbreaks, few in number, and chiefly in Ireland. The important epidemics in that country were in 1846, 1866-67, 1885-86, and there was a slight epidemic in 1890 (Parsons and Little, B.2LJ., June 23, 1900; and "A Discussion at the Royal Academy of Medicine," B.M.J., July 7). A few cases have been reported recently in England (Handford). It is perhaps most convenient to describe the general character of the disease under the two forms of the epidemic and sporadic. Characters op Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal Fever.—Few infections occur in such remark- able waves. For long periods a district or a town may be comparatively free; then within a few months a large number of cases are seen. A second peculiarity is its occurrence in widely- separated regions, or as isolated epidemics in places hitherto quite free. It may be limited in a remarkable way to special districts in a city. A majority of the epidemics have occurred in the winter and in the spring, but to this there have been some notable exceptions. Villages and country districts have suffered more than towns and cities. While one of the most fatal of acute diseases, cerebro-spinal fever is not a great pestilence; comparatively few individuals are attacked during periods of prevalence, and the general mortality may be but slightly in- creased. On the other hand, scarcely any known fever kills so large a proportion of those attacked. Among specific diseases cerebro-spinal fever stands in some point close to pneumonia. The seasonal relations are the same in both, and the two diseases may prevail together. The abrupt onset, the great frequency of herpes in both, the leucocytosis, "the almost identical characters of the fibrino-purulent exudate in the two diseases" (Netter), the freqiient complication of pneumonia in epidemic cerebro-spinal fever and of menin- gitis in pneumonia, are additional points of contact. The degree of contagion is about the same in both. On the other hand, Leichtenstern, speaking against the view that the pneumo- coccus is the cause of epidemic cerebro-spinal fever, says: " Pneumonia is a disease spread over the entire earth and appears at all times, there being no land immune from it. Epidemic meningitis is very rare, and in many countries is still unknown. Croupous pneumonia attacks every age, the disposition increasing somewhat with increasing age; epidemic meningitis is a disease which affects children and young people; beyond thirty-five there is slight disposition to it. Ci'oupous pneumonia has a typical course and a crisis; epidemic meningitis has no crisis. The complications of the two diseases are different," etc. Age.—Children and young adults are most frequently affected. As a rule, more than half the cases are in persons imder ten years of age. The disease is probably mildly contagious, in much the same way as is pneumonia, and, as in that disease, there may be remai'kable house epidemics, even when the disease is not prevail- ing in epidemic form. I have reported a family in which five cases occurred in rapid succession in one house within six weeks. Sporadic Cerebro - Spinal Fever. — Very special interest attaches to this form, as through it the disease is kept alive in com- munities, and it is possibly a quite widespread type of meningitis in young children. According to the Fifty-ninth Report of the Registrar-General, 1896, the deaths from cerebro- spinal fever in England from 1877 to 1896, in- clusive, only once exceeded 50 per annum. For the decade ending 1896 there were only 233 cases, against 406 for the previous decade. In Scotland there were only 6 deaths from cerebro- spinal fever in 1895, and 5 in 1896. In Ireland there were 76 deaths in 1896, and the same in 1897. In two of the large metropolitan hospitals the figures were as follows:—At St. Bartholomew's, from 1860, cases with the dia- gnosis of cerebro-spinal meningitis occur in the years 1872, 1888, 1889, 1890, 1892, 1893, 1895, 1896, 1897—21 in all. In many years the word meningitis alone is used ; in others the words spinal meningitis and meningitis simplex. Ormerod {Lancet, i. 1895) gives an exceedingly interesting report on 10 fatal cases from this hospital : 4 of them occurred between March and June 1890, at which time epidemic menin- gitis prevailed in the eastern counties. At St. Thomas's, since 1873, cases with the diagnosis of cerebro-spinal meningitis occur in the years 1895 and 1896—7 cases in all. In the wards of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, there were, in 1891, 3 cases diagnosed as cerebro-spinal meningitis; in 1892, 2 cases; in 1893, 1 case. If the simple meningitis of children (posterior basic) is, as Still and others suppose, the spor- adic form of cerebro-spinal fever, the cases are quite common. Barlow and Lee (AUbutt's System) report 110 cases from the Hospital for Sick Children. In the large American cities the sporadic casesMENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 326 occur with greater frequency. At the Boston City Hospital, from 1880 to 1896, there were 39 cases diagnosed as cerebro-spinal meningitis with a mortality of 59 per cent. It is interesting to note that during the first five months of 1897, when an epidemic began, there were 42 ad- missions—a larger number than in the pi-evious seventeen years. That the disease lingers in a city indefinitely after an outbreak has been the common opinion of all students of the disease, and any one who has had a large post-mortem experience has met with sporadic instances of extensive suppurative meningitis which he has not been able to regard as secondary to any existing condition. The Philadelphia records are interesting in this respect. As collected by Stille from 1863, the figures illustrate very well the periods in which there were slight outbreaks —namely, 1864-65 and 1872-73. Pepper com- jDleted the figures to 1892, and Abbott has sent me the figures up to date. They show from 1884 a progressive decline in the number of cases, which may in part have been due to more careful diagnosis. From that year, when there were 124 deaths, there was a gradual decline, and in 1891 there were only 23 deaths. From that year the figures as sent me by Dr. Abbott are as follows :—1892, 22 cases ; 1893, 35 cases ; 1894, 18 cases ; 1895, 17 cases ; 1896, 7 cases ; 1897, 10 cases; 1898, 24 cases; 1899 (to and including April 31), 89 cases. Here, again, it is interesting to see how quickly the epidemic prevalence of the disease is manifest. During 1898 the disease was not recognised as prevalent in Philadelphia. In 1899 a number of cases occurred, and the deaths during the first four months were 89. Bacteriology.—In 1887 Weichselbaum found an organism in cases of cerebro-spinal meningitis, resembling somewhat the gonococcus, which had special cultural peculiarities, and which he re- garded as the specific organism of the disease. These observations were confirmed by Jaeger in 1895, and within the past few years Councilman, ^lallory and Wright, Netter, Harris, and others have fully confirmed his observations. The organism, which is known as the diplococcus intracellularis, or the meningococcus, has a diplococcus form, and in the cover slips made from the exudate is found usually within the polynuclear leucocytes, many of which are stuffed with them. The organism stains with the ordinary reagents and is discoloured by the Gram method. It grows best on LofHer's blood serum, forming " round, whitish, shining, viscid- looking colonies, with smooth, sharply-defined outlines, which attain a diameter of one to one and a half millimetres in twenty-four hours" (Councilman). It is feebly pathogenic for animals. Heubner and Councilman have both produced typical meningitis by inoculating cultures of the organism beneath the spinal meninges of goats. In chronic cases the organ- ism may have disappeared, though we have found it as late as the forty-first day. The pneumococcus has been found frequently in association with it, particularly by French observers. It was found only once in my series. In a few instances tubercle bacilli have been found in the cases ; these are probably instances of tuberculous meningitis infected with the cerebro-spinal fever during the prevalence of the disease. A point of very special interest relates to the bacteriology of the simple menin- gitis of children. G. F. Still, in his study of the cases at the Great Ormond Street Hospital, isolated a diplococcus which conformed in every particular with the diplococcus intracellularis. Confirmatory observations have been more re- cently made by Thursfield, and from the clinical side by Saundby. The subject is one which deserves further study. Symptoms.—J/bc^e of Onset.—Cerebro-spinal fever sets in, as a rule, with great abruptness, and the patient complains of sudden headache or is nauseated or becomes sick at the stomach while at work or at play. These symptoms may be followed by a chill of great severity, or in children by convulsions. Certain special types of the disease have been described which may be referred to before the symptoms are discussed in detail. 1. The acute fulminant form, which appears to have been more common in the early epidemics. The patient may die in from ten to twenty-four hours, or may become comatose within a few hours after the onset. Death may occur before any exudate is present on the meninges, and the post-mortem may show only an intense hypersemia. 2. The intermittent and remittent type, characterised by a marked remission of the symptoms at the end of a week or ten days, and then a recurrence. Two or more of these intermissions or remissions may occur before recovery or death. Some of the cases suggest a definite relapse. 3. The chronic type, in which the disease persists for many weeks, or for three or four months. One of my cases lived ninety days. The patients become extremely emaciated, and usually die from exhaustion. 4. The abortive t}'pe. During the prevalence of epidemics, writers have described remarkable cases, in which, after an onset with headache, stiffness of the neck, pains in the limbs, fever, and even slight delirium, the symptoms subside at the end of twenty-four hours, and in a day or two the patient is quite well. The symptoms in detail may now be con- sidered. Nervous Symptoms.—Headache is one of the earliest and most constant features. It is often of a very intense character, usually frontal, but at times general, and of terrible severity, so that the patient cries aloud or screams at the slightestEPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPIN^L MENINGITIS. (Dr. J. Stewart Fnwler's cast's.)MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 327 jar or if any attempt is made to move the head. Backache is less common, though at the onset patients may complain of pain in the back of the neck and extending down the spine. It may be associated with spasm of the muscles, and any attempt to turn in bed or to straighten the spine causes great suffering. Frigidity of the neck and back is rarely absent. The cervical muscles may be in active spasm, which retracts the head so that in extreme cases it may rest on the spine between the shoulder- blades, and even cause difficulty in swallowing. Slighter grades of rigidity and arching may persist even after the acute symptoms have passed away. Any attempt to lift the head may cause pain. The rigidity of the back may be of such a grade that the patient may be lifted by the hand placed beneath the occiput. There may be an extreme grade of arching of the back, so that the head, neck, and trunk form a large part of the arc of a circle. Convulsions are, as mentioned, common at the onset, and may be extensor in character, resembling those of tetanus. Irritative lesions of the cortical centres may cause clonic spasms of the muscles of the arms or contractures of one or both legs; sometimes clonic spasms of the muscles of one side of the face. Paralysis occurs most frequently in the eye muscles, though it is not so common as in tuberculous meningitis. In some epidemics strabismus has been a very frequent symptom. Hemiplegia may occur, and in several of our cases there was a limpness amounting almost to paralysis of all the limbs. Paraplegia is rare, but it may occur early, even before there are any cerebral symptoms. Aphasia may come on abruptly, and in children may persist long after convalescence. Cutaneous hypereesthesia is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. The patients dread to be touched, and even when comatose will wince when the skin is pinched. It is more marked than in any other form of meningitis. Psychical Disturbances.—There may be only slight mental confusion, which rapidly dis- appears. A very distressing feature of some cases is the retention of consciousness through- out. A maniacal condition may occur at the onset, to be followed in twenty-four or thirty- six hours in the severe cases by a deepening coma. In other instances the patient is apathetic and dull and very difficult to arouse. During convalescence the mental processes may be very slow, and in a few cases delusional insanity follows. The Temperature.—The onset may be afebrile, and indeed a patient may remain so for three or four days with the symptoms of the disease well marked. The temperature may even be subnormal; this is exceptional, though it was present in two cases of the sporadic form. In the very chronic cases, also, there may be no fever towards the close, or the record may be from 95-5° to 97°. In the cases we have had under observation there have been three types of fever: first, a continuous pyrexia closely Chart I.—Type of continuous pyrexia. resembling that of typhoid fever (Chart I.); secondly, a remittent type, with wide daily excursions of from three to even five degrees (Chart II.); thirdly, an intermittent form, in which there are daily paroxysms, as shown in Chart III. When chills occur, the picture in this form may resemble the intermittent fever of malaria, but the paroxysms are longer thanMENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 328 those of tertian fever. An inverse type of temperature is not uncommon, in which the morning record is highest. The Pulse.—At the onset it may be slow, or, at any rate, not increased in frequency, and even when the temperature is as high as Chart II.—A remittent type of temperature. 103° the pulse may not be more than 85 or 90. Variations in the pulse-rate during the day are common, and at one visit the patient may have a rapid, irregular pulse of 120, and six or eight hours later it may be 90 and regular. Even as late as the sixteenth day of the disease, with a temperature of 104°, I have known the highest range of the pulse to be from 64 to 72. In a chronic case on the fifty-ninth day the pulse was 64. The Blood.—Leucocytosis was present in all of our cases. In four the first blood count was made on the third day, and the leucocytosis was 25,900, 14,500, 40,800, and 32,000 per cm. The first blood count was made on the fourth day in four cases, and the leucocytosis was 26,240, 31,800, 19,300, and 7600 per cm. In only four cases did the leucocytes exceed 40,000 per cm., and the maximum count was on the ninth day in a fatal case 47,000 per cm. The leucocytosis persists even in the most pro- tracted cases. In a lad who died in the twelfth week of the disease the leucocytes were 23,000 per cm. shortly before death. As a rule there was no special reduction in the red blood corpuscles. In one case a moderate anaemia developed, and in the fifth week the red corpuscles were only 3,100,000 per cm. In one case the diplococcus intracellularis was isolated from the blood during life. Skin Lesions. — Herpes is as common in cerebro-spinal meningitis as in pneumonia, perhaps more so. It usually occurs on the lips or nostrils and may appear at the very onset. A diffuse erythema is not infrequent and may be seen about the chest or abdomen, more commonly about the joints. A petechial rash, which was so common in the early epidemics that the disease had the name of spotted fever, was present in more than one- third of our cases. It is common on the extensor surfaces, over the lower part of the abdomen, and about the joints. Respiratory Symptoms.—An acute coryza may occur at the onset. A mucous discharge from the nostrils is not uncommon, and in a number of cases the diplococcus has been found. The breathing may be slow and laboured or sigh- ing, or, when pneumonia is present, hurried. Cheyne-Stokes breathing is frequently observed. The most serious pulmonary complication is pneu- monia, which in many epidemics has been noted with great frequency. Possibly, as Councilman states, many of these cases have been the ordinary meningitis associated with croupous pneumonia. In the Boston epidemic there were very few cases of pneumonia. In my series of twenty- three cases there were three cases of pneumonia. In one of them the widespread consolidation in the lower lobe and the tubular breathing, which we thought to be due to pneumonia, was, in reality, extensive collapse of the lung. Digestive System.—Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms of the onset, and vomiting may be one of the most distressing features throughout. The bowels as a rule are consti- pated. With the progress of the disease in the more chronic cases the abdomen becomes much flattened or even scaphoid. The spleen is not constantly enlarged, but in many instances the edge may be readily felt.MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEUEBRO-SPINAL 329 The Urine.—Febrile albuminuria is common. Arthritis.—One of the most interesting com- plications of the disease is multiple arthritis, which was noticed by James Jackson and North in the early American epidemics. It was present in only two of our cases. . It may, as in Case VII. in our series, be a multiple suppura- tive arthritis of the greatest in- tensity, so that on the fourth day of the disease the patient presented the picture of an acute pysemia of the greatest severity. There was pus in the knee-joints, from which the meningcococcus was isolated. In other instances it is rather a periarthritis, and there is redness, swelling, and pain, but no suppuration. Special Senses.—Eyes.—Slight conjunctivitis is common. Photo- phobia is common. Randolph found seven cases out of forty with strabismus. The optic disc was congested in a large propor- tion of the cases, and acute optic neuritis was found by Randolph in six cases. Purulent choroido- iritis or keratitis may be present. Involvement of the fifth nerve at the base, or of the Gasserian ganglion, may lead to keratitis or to a purulent infiltration of the eye. Ear.—Suppuration in the middle ear and in the labyrinth not infrequently leads to deafness, the most serious sequel of the disease in children as it not infrequently causes deafmutism. Moos found in sixty-four cases of recovery from cerebro-spinal fever that 55 per cent of the persons were deaf. Diagnosis.—The following diseases may at times resemble cerebro-spinal fever. (1) Malig- nant smallpox. The intensity of the headache and backache, the early stupor, and the petechiee may lead to error, particularly if cerebro-spinal fever is prevailing at the time. (2) Typhoid fever with marked cerebro-spinal localisation. The more gradual onset, the gastro-intestinal symptoms, and the rose-spots are important; but probably the two most valuable diflferential points are Kernig's sign and the results of the lumbar puncture. I have seen cases in which no suspicion whatever of typhoid fever had been entertained until the demonstration of the characteristic lesions at autopsy. There may be the most pronounced meningitic symptoms, retraction of the head, clonic spasms and marked cutaneous hyper- sesthesia. In a case last year of this character in a negro girl it was only the onset of a parotitis that suggested typhoid fever, which was con- firmed post-mortem. The Widal reaction may be an important aid, and we have recently in cases of very intense infection cultivated the typhoid bacillus from the blood before the Widal reaction was present. Stokes' statement must always be remembered in connection with the acute fever. "There is no single nervous symptom which may not and does not occur Chart III.—An intermittent form of temperature. independently of any appreciable lesion of the brain, nerves, or spinal cord." (3) Typhus fever presents many close simi- larities to cerebro-spinal fever, and epidemics of the two diseases have coexisted. (4) The so-called cerebral type of pneumonia may simulate closely cerebro-spinal fever. The sudden onset with a chill, the herpes, in children the convulsions are most suggestive, and the meningeal features may so dominate a case that the pulmonary condition is overlooked. It may be difficult or impossible in a case of pneumonia with very marked cerebro-spinal symptoms to say whether there is actual meningitis present or not. Here again the lumbar puncture and Kernig's sign may be of the greatest value. (5) Influenza in a few rare cases may simulate cerebro-spinal fever. Epidemics of the two dis- eases have coexisted, and Netter thinks that the cases of so-called " grippal meningitis " have been instances of cerebro-spinal fever. Two important aids in diagnosis have been brought forward of late years which are of special importance in the diagnosis of the existence of meningitis. Kernig's Sign.—We have found this of the greatest possible assistance; and I may say that it has been present in all cases of meningitis in which it has been looked for, and it has not been found in any case in which meningitis was not present. To test for Kernig's sign the patient should be propped in bed in the sitting posture: then on at- tempting to extend the leg on the thigh there330 MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL is contraction of the flexors, which prevents the full straightening of the leg. The test can be equally well made with the patient in the recumbent posture. The thigh is flexed at a right angle with the trunk ; then on attempting to extend the leg, if meningitis be present, it is impossible to do so, and the leg may remain at Kernig's sign, showing the strong contraction of the flexors on attempting to extend the le; right angles to the thigh, as shown above. Netter's explanation of the phenomenon is as follows: "In consequence of the inflammation of the meninges the roots of the nerves become irritable, and the flexion of the thighs upon the pelvis when the patient is in the sitting posture elongates and consequently stretches the lumbar and sacral roots, and thus increases their irrita- bility. The attempt to extend the knee is in- suflicient to provolse a reflex contraction of the flexors while the patient lies on his back with the thighs extended upon the pelvis, but it does so when he assumes a sitting posture." Lumbar Pmichire.—Introduced by Quincke, this has proved of very great value in diagnosis, and we are able now to make in many cases a prompt decision as to the existence of menin- gitis and its form. Details of the technique are given elsewhere (see "Spinal Cord"). It is a simple and quite harmless procedure, and in a majority of cases can be done without general anaesthesia, or with the aid of a local freezing mixture. In children, unless unconscious, it is best to give a few whiffs of chloroform. In cerebro-spinal fever a dry tap is very rare. Occasionally the needle may be blocked with fibrin, or a nerve root may come directly against the orifice. Puncture in the third or fourth lumbar space may be negative, while from the second the fluid may flow freely. The technique, like other procedures of the kind, is bettered by practice. In a large proportion of all cases when meningitis is present the fluid is turbid. In rare instances clear fluid may be obtained when meningitis exists, or the fluid may be turbid at one puncture and clear at the next, or it may become clear in the remarkable remissions of the disease. A clear fluid may be obtained from a puncture in the second lumbar inter- space, while lower down a turbid fluid may be withdrawn. In a recent post-mortem the fluid from the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions was clear, and that from the lower lum- bar and sacral regions of the canal was turbid, and contained numerous flocculent masses. The fluid should be allowed to flow into a sterilised test-tube. When the fluid is at all turbid there is usually a slight sedi- ment and a coagulation of fibrin. Cover-glass prepara- tions are made either directly from the turbid fluid or, if the turbidity is slight and the cell elements few in number, after it has been centrifugal- ised. Cultures should be pre- pared at the time of making the lumbar puncture by allow- ing one or two cubic centi- metres of the fluid to flow on to a Loffler blood-serum medium. The amount of fluid varies from a few drops to 130 cc. Within certain limits there is some relation between the turbidity of the fluid and the severity of the symptoms. In several of our cases a bloody fluid was removed. In acute cases the organisms are usually present in large numbers in the smears. The later the disease the less likelihood there is of finding the diplo- coccus. We have found them as late as the seventh week. Diagnosis of the Meningitis in Cerehro-Spinal Fever from other Forms of Meningitis.—(a) From Tuberculous Meningitis.—The abruptness of onset in cerebro-spinal fever, partictilarly in children, is a most valuable diagnostic point, as it is in such striking contrast to the slow, insidious onset of the tuberculous form. The cerebral symptoms predominate in the tuber- culous meningitis, the spinal in the cerebro- spinal fever. As the tuberculous form almost always invades the choroid plexuses, there is internal hydrocephalus, with an increase of the pressure, so that drowsiness and coma are common. One rarely sees in tuberculous meningitis, as may be the case with the meningitis of cerebro-spinal fever, a child with well-pronounced features of the disease and yet rational and able to answer questions. The arthritis and the skin lesions are exceedingly rare in the tuberculous form. The lumbar puncture in the acute cases is of the greatest value. In a large proportion of all cases the diplococcus intracellularis is found in cerebro-EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL MENINGITIS. Vol. VI. Plate IV. Tn facepa'je 330. {Dr. J. Stewart Fowler's cases.) Fig. 4.—Chronic Cerebro-.Spiiial Meningitis, showing the extreme emaciation which characterises the late stage of the disease ; also Kernig's Sign. Fig. 5.—Chronic Cerebro-Spinal Meningitis ; commencing Hj-drocephalus sliowu by down-turned position of tlie Eyes.MENINGITIS, EPIDEMIC CEREBRO-SPINAL 331 spinal fever. The leucocytosis is rarely so high in tuberculous meningitis, nor is it so persistent. The simple meningitis of children — the posterior basic—which is probably the sporadic form of cerebro-spinal fever, is much more common during the first year of life than the tuberculous, but equally common during the second year, and above the second year the tuberculous form is very much more frequent (Barlow and Lee). (6) From Pneumococcic Meningitis. — This occurs in three groups. First: meningitis which is a complication of lobar pneumonia. In many cases the condition is latent and is recog- nised only post-mortem. It is much more frequent in adults than in children. On the other hand, the cerebral type of pneumonia with marked meningitic symptoms, but without meningeal lesions, is most common in children. In the meningitis of pneumonia spinal symptoms are rare. Nauwerck, who analysed 29 cases, found the convexity of the brain alone involved in 4 ; in 16, both cortex and base ; and in 7, the cortex, base, and spinal cord. In only 7 of the cases was there any rigidity of the neck muscles. Strabismus was present in one-fifth of the cases, ptosis only once. As the spinal meninges are so rarely affected, the fluid obtained by lumbar puncture may be negative, as happened in a recent case under my care. Secondly: pneumococcic meningitis from local infection, either from the nose, from the adjacent sinuses, from the ear, or following an injury to the skull, or an operation. Thirdly: primary pneumococcic meningitis. This seems to be much more common in France tlian in either Great Britain or America. Of 8 cases of pneumococcic meningitis in the pathological department of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, only 1 was primary. The diagnosis of this primary form from sporadic cases of cerebro-spinal fever can only be made by the lumbar puncture. The pneumococcus can usually be differentiated from the diplococcus intracellularis. (c) From Pyogenic Meningitis. — This is almost invariably secondary. The cases follow injury, or occur in connection with disease of the ear or of the nose and its sinuses. The cerebral symptoms are marked, and there is rarely the characteristic grouping seen in cerebro-spinal fever. The otitic group of cases in this series is most important, and one has constantly to bear in mind the extraordinary cerebral manifestations that may be associated with otitis media in children. An interesting- form is what may be called the terminal variety of pyogenic meningitis. In debilitated children and in persons suffering from chronic wasting diseases there may be a meningitis, chiefly basilar, which is due to the streptococci or staphylococci, and which is very often latent and occurs during the last few days or the last week of life. Prognosis.—Meningitis in all forms, as seen in ordinary practice, is one of the most fatal of diseases. On the other hand, recovery from the meningitis of cerebro-spinal fever occurs in a considerable proportion of all cases. The mortality may be said to be from 30 to 70 per cent. Of 23 cases under my care in the past few years, 9 died. Recovery in a case with all the features of a cerebro-spinal meningitis is in favour of the diagnosis of this form. The posterior basic meningitis or simple meningitis of children is also characterised by a very con- siderable proportion of recoveries—a point in favour of the view that it is only a sporadic variety of cerebro-spinal fever. Treatment. — Careful nursing is most im- portant, as the patients are difficult to feed and there is a marked tendency to bed-sores. The diet should be milk, albumin water, and meat broths. Stimulants may be given when the heart gets feeble, and in some instances we have used with benefit the subcutaneous in- fusions of salt solution. As a systematic treat- ment the warm baths, at 100° F., introduced by Aufrecht, are perhaps the most satisfactory. Tliey are given every three hours. In the very emaciated cases, with bed-sores, the patient may be in a continuous warm bath; in cases of moderate severity the bath may be given only three times a day. Of medicines the only one that we have found worth using is opium in some form, to allay the pain and to quiet the delirium in the more severe cases. Mercury, the salicylates, and the bromides and iodides have been extensively used, but it is doubtful whether they have the slightest influence on the course of the disease. Crede's silver ointment, con- taining, so it is said, 15 per cent of soluble metallic silver, has been much used by some in the recent epidemic. Half a drachm for a child and a drachm for an adult is rubbed into the skin three times a day. Has the lumbar puncture any therapeutic value 1 On this point opinions differ. Williams and Netter believe that beneficial effects follow ; Wentworth, whose experience has been very large, is sceptical on this point. In a few instances I think we have seen decided relief follow the lumbar puncture; and Netter, in papers more recent than his article in the Ttventieth Century Practice, has spoken most strongly in favour of repeated lumbar puncture as a therapeutic measure. In two instances in my wards the spinal meninges were opened and drained. Both cases were fatal. Men i ng'ism. — Pseudo-meningitis in which there is a marked resemblance to the tubercular form; hysterical phenomena due to vascular meningeal disturbances.332 MENINGITIS Mening'itis. See Meninges of the Cerebrum {Inflamrnatiom of); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic ; Menin- gitis, Epidemic Cerebro-Spinal. Meni ng'OCeie. — A cystic protrusion consisting of the cerebral or spinal membranes through a defect (usually congenital) in the cranium or vertebral canal; all the three men- inges may protrude, or the dura alone. See Brain, Surgery of {Cephalocele, Meningocele); Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Angioma, Diagnosis); Deformities {Clubfoot, Etiology); Hydrocephalus {Complications); Orbit, Dis- eases OF THE {Cystic Tumours); Palate {Diseases, Tumours); Spina Bifida (Varieties, Meniiigocele); Spinal Cord, Medical {Developmental Peculi- arities) ; Spine, Surgical Affections of. Mening^OCOCCUS.—The micrococcus of cerebro-spinal meningitis ; the diplococcus intra- cellularis. See Meningitis, Epidemic Cerebro- spinal {Bacteriology); Nose, Examination of {Bacteriological Character of Secretion). Mening^O-encephalitiS. — Inflam- mation of the brain and cerebral membranes. See Brain, Inflammations {Chronic Encephalitis); Brain, Surgery of {Leptomeningitis); Meninges OF THE Cerebrum {Chro7iic Leptomeningitis, Sypjhilitic). Mening^o-encephalocele.—A pro- trusion from the cranium consisting of both brain and cerebral membranes. See Encephalocele. Men i ng'Omyel it is. — Inflammation of the spinal cord and its membranes. iVIening'omyeloceie. See Spina Bifida (Varieties). iVIeniSCUS. — A crescentic body (Gr. fj-qvia-Kos, a crescent), such as a lens convex on one side and concave on the other, or an inter- articular fibro-cartilage; from this word menis- citis (inflammation of an interarticular cartilage) and meniscoid (resembling a concavo-convex lens) take their origin. tVlenispermuin. — The moonseed, a herb (J/, canadense) whose rhizome has been used medicinally as a substitute for sarsaparilla. Menis2jermi7ie is an alkaloid (C^gHg^NgOg) ob- tained from it or from the Anami7-ta cocculus; it contains another alkaloid menispine, which resembles oxyacanthine. iVIenO-.—In compound words meno- (Gr. fj-riv-q, the moon, or /xr^v, a month) means relating to menstruation; thus menocelis is a sort of menstrual purpura in which congested patches occur upon the skin in women in whom the menses have failed to appeal-, constituting a form of vicarious menstruation or menometastasis. See Menstruation. Menopause, The. Introduction . . . . . .332 The Normal History .... 332 Disorders accompanying .... 334 Treatment . . . . . .335 See also Menstruation and its Disorders {Menopause); Climacteric ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Etiological Varieties) ; Pruritus {Clinical Groups, Pruritus Ani); Rheumatism, Rheuma- toid Arthritis ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tu- mours OF {Myofihromata, Life-History); Uterus, Associated Insanity {Mental Symptoms at the Climacteric). Menopause is the time when in the human female the activity of the ovaries finally ceases. It occurs, as a rule, when the woman is about fifty years old, and it usually occupies from six to twelve months. It is characterised by irregularity of the catamenial periods, sudden flushings, some vertigo, and by many other varying manifestations of nervous instability. The degree of severity of these symptoms varies mainly with the initial quality of the patient's nervous system, as inherited from her parents, and in a smaller but very real degree with the circumstances of her life. A woman who in- herits a good and stable organisation and who has also led a rational, active, and temperate life, does not, as a rule, suffer anything more than slight or temporary discomfort at the menopause. But if she inherits an unstable nervous system which is ready to break down under stress of any kind, and if in addition she has had many worries, and has taken very little outdoor exercise; if she has had too little sleep, too little reci'eation, and possibly more wine than she needs, the result is frequently a more or less complete upset of her nervous equili- brium. Under such conditions a change from one stage of development to another, which should be a normal process giving no serious trouble, is transformed into a grave departure from health or even into complete mental dis- turbance. (See " Climacteric Insanity.") The menopause is said to be natural when it has not been caused by operative interference. When the ovaries have been removed by opera- tion the resulting menopause is described as artificial. Here the catamenial loss is arrested and the other symptoms of "change of life" are present, but usually in a more marked degree. The symptoms are more severe because the rate at which the change in the activity of the ovaries has been made is much more rapid than it is in normal conditions. In a natural meno- pause there is a beneficent absence of haste. The change affected is spread over many months, and in a large proportion of women it finds them in good general health and with fairly well-balanced nerves. Whatever it is that the ovaries have hitherto contributed to the general well-being of333 MENOPAUSE, THE the individual is at the menopause lost by slow and irregular steps. Nerves, blood-vessels, and tissues have time, day by day, to adjust them- selves to a new order of things : physiological compensation is established ; and in many cases so perfect is the process that the woman is in better health after the menopause than she was before it. She has paid her tax to humanity and she is now free from calls of that kind on her strength and activity. But in the artificial menopause the changes which nature intended should be spread over months are produced by the surgeon in half an hour, and there is in addition the nervous shock of a capital operation. The patients have usually also had years of suffering and have been compelled to lead lives inconsistent with nervous health or stability. It is not necessary to wonder at the greatest severity of the resulting symptoms. Even in the artificial menopause, however, there is a wide range of variation in the observed symptoms, and it would be an exaggeration to say that in all cases the discomforts are con- siderable. Many patients suffer no more after ablation of their ovaries than women commonly do at the natural menopause. The physiology of menstruation is dealt with elsewhere (see " Menstruation"). Many con- flicting theories have been set forth as to the exact share taken by the ovaries and the uterus in the production of menstruation, and it cannot be said that unanimity of opinion has been yet reached. Probably the truth is that both uterus and ovaries are active agents and that there is some nervous mechanism not yet under- stood linking the two together and combining them for the required physiological result. The retention of one ovary or of part of one has sufficed in many cases to keep up the function of menstruation. When the uterus is removed and the ovaries or one ovary is left, menstruation is arrested, but the other symptoms of the menopause do not arise till the time comes for the ovarian nerves to pass into the stage of quiescence. There is here a kind of " fictitious " menopause. There is no menstruation, but there are none of the symptoms of vaso-motor and other nerve disturbance common in a natural menopause. This is remarkable in view of the fact that a considerable number of cases have been collected by Goodell in which, with rudi- mentary and quite undeveloped uterus and no vagina, there have been marked menstrual molimina and suffering which has only been relieved by the removal of small and ill-developed ovaries: (1) Can it have been that in these cases the suffering was a pure neuralgia due to the imperfection of the ovaries rather than to their presence 1 On the other hand, in support of the leading part played by the ovaries we have been told of cases (2) in which menstruation has been maintained and an artificial menopause averted by the transplantation of an ovary from one woman to another after the ablation of both ovaries for disease. A further important point in what may be called the natural history of the menopause is the correlation which appears to exist between the devolution of the uterus and of the ovaries. At the menopause both these organs are going out of active life into the resting or passive condition which heralds senile changes. They grow old together, but the uterus ajjparently becomes old sooner than the ovaries ; it strikes work earlier. It is exceptional for a woman to bear a child after she is forty-four or forty-five. If she conceives as late as this, which she not very rarely does, the chances are she will miscarry. The ovaries here are at work ; they have developed a germ cell which has been capable of being fertilised, but which is cast oft" prematurely. It may be that the fault lies with the fertilised ovum, that its vitality is poor and that it dies. But it may also be that the uterus has grown old and that it is no longer capable of going through the cycle of changes required in child-bearing. Tlie lower-grade function of menstruation outlasts child-bearing by five or six years. The ovaries seem to supply the essential nerve stimulus, and the uterus the changed mucous membrane through which the blood exudes. The popular notion that the menopause occurs early in those who began menstrual life early, and that thirty years is about the general time for the catamenia to recur, seems to be baseless. It is a myth that has obtained widespread credence in spite of much experience which is directly opposed to it. The time at which puberty arrives is partly a matter of race and climate ; but it is also greatly influenced by the health and vigour of the individual woman. In childhood and youth constitutional vigour shows itself by the development of mind and body being at any given age in advance of what is usually seen. A specially fine child of six years of age is bigger and cleverer than most children are at eight or nine, and so onwards the same thing is seen up to maturity. Women of exceptionally good physique develop not only more perfectly but earlier than the average, while those of a distinctly poor type are behind their age in time, and are often permanently behind in the quality of their development. Many healthj^ young women, even in England, begin to menstruate before they are twelve and ai-e none the worse for it. When nearly forty years later they turn the corner of mature life and begin the downward path, their vigour shows itself by keeping them younger than their age, and they do not have the menopause even as early as delicate women who reached puberty at sixteen or seventeen. The rule in this respect is that vigour means a prolongation of the powers of mature life, and that feebleness goes with late, difficult, and often painful men-334 MENOPAUSE, THE struation, and with an early menopause. This view accords with the other faii-ly familiar observation, that in women who have the menopause early it usually lasts longer and is the cause of more serious discomfort than it is in women who get it at or about fifty. In exceptional cases the menopause occurs in quite early adult life. The writer has seen it appear at twenty-eight and at thirty-one, and has heard of still earlier cases. Usually the subjects of extremely early menopause have either had some great shock, or a long exhausting illness, or menstruation has come on very late and has always been scanty and irregular. Occasionally the menopause immediately follows a parturi- tion, and in this case it is probably due to superin volution of the uterus. In profound anaemia and in many constitiitional diseases the catamenia are, as a rule, absent, but there are in these cases none of the other ordinary symptoms of the menopause, no flushes, no nervous disturbance. The patients lose nothing because they have nothing to spare. It is probable that the circulation is too languid to respond to the ovarian stimulation, and that the ovaries themselves are not at fault. When in these cases the quality of the blood is favour- ably changed by iron, arsenic, etc., the loss reappears. In the presence of uterine fibroids, on the other hand, the menopause is often unduly postponed. It may be delayed to fifty- five or fifty-six, or even later, and this in cases where the patient is for part of each month profoundly anaemic from the severity of the loss she has to bear. Possibly in these cases the blood-making powers are above par, as they are thought to be in haemophilia, and that the same abnormal nutritional stimulus which leads to the formation of the fibroids keeps the ovarian nerves active to an unusually late age. The fact that the menopause is so often greatly delayed, in the presence of uterine myomata, has a practical bearing when consider- ing the propriety of advising hysterectomy for menorrhagia due to fibroids in a woman of forty-four or forty-five. A condition which might be borne patiently for a short time would practically do away with much of the value of life if it is to last for ten or more years. There seems to be no clear evidence that the ovaries form any " internal" secretion of great nutritive value, or that they manufacture any- thing at all comparable in importance with the secretions of the thyroid, pancreas, or supra- renal capsules. The disturbance seen at the menopause is nervous rather than nutritional or chemical. It is also more or less temporary in the great majority of cases, and even the artificial menopause is, as a rule, in time recovered from. As opposed to this view, however, there is the tendency to put on flesh, which so often coincides with the menopause. and which seems to be directly related to inactivity or imperfect development of the ovaries. The exact mode in which the influence of the ovaries makes itself felt on nutrition is still far from clear. Perhaps the worst thing that can be said of the menopause is that it indicates and heralds the wearing out of that part of the organism which is specially connected with the maturity of the individual, and that when wearing out begins, other signs of the degeneration of tissues may not be long in appearing. It seems, too, as if the organs specially concerned with the menopause—i.e. the ovaries, uterus, and mammary glands—are unusually prone to develop degenerative or malignant disease when they approach, or have recently passed, the term of their active functional life. It is useless to speculate as to the meaning of this till some solid knowledge has been gained as to the real nature of malignant disease. It is not, however, necessary to assume that the menopause is the cause of such disease. They may both be results of one antecedent condition, that of wearing out or degeneration, and they may not be in any other way connected. Practically, the great prone- ness of women near the climacteric to malignant disease should never for a moment be forgotten. It is the gravest of mistakes to attribute hastily and without careful examination everything that is abnormal in women between forty-five and fifty to the menopause, and to ignore their great liability to serious organic disease Many precious lives are wasted every year by assum- ing that symptoms which call for most careful and thorough examination may safely be treated as of no consequence because the menopause is probably at hand. Every case of abnormal uterine haemorrhage, for instance, ought to be s^idied as carefully in a woman of forty-seven as in one of thirty. The menopause should never be credited as the effective cause of any serious objective symptom in the absence of direct and painstaking investigation. The diagnosis of "change of life" is a very refuge of the destitute to the indolent and ignorant, and as such it should be shunned with care by all honest practitioners. This is, however, consistent with admitting, which may freely be done, that abnormal haemorrhage may be, and often is, due solely to the irregular con- dition of the uterine circulation during the menopause. Vaso-motor weakness may be the sole cause of congestion which leads up to serious haemorrhage. All that is now urged is that organic disease should be carefully looked for, and that the menopause should not be invoked as the sufficient cause of important symptoms in the absence of careful examination. Next in importance to the liability of women at this age to malignant disease, and to the strain it puts upon their nervous stability, is the fact that in a large number of cases the335 MENOPAUSE, THE menopause is associated with the commencement of rheumatoid arthritis. Here again we shall not be able to trace the exact connection till the minute pathology of rheumatoid arthritis has been made out much more clearly than it is at present. Whether the primary fault is nervous, or nutritional, or chemical, we do not yet know. Practically, it is important to be alert in recognising the early and more curable stage of this terrible disease and to treat it seriously from the first. Many cases of rheumatoid arthritis can be absolutely cured if not neglected in the first weeks of symptoms. (See " Rheumatoid Arthritis.") Treatment.—The diagnosis being made, and all structural disease eliminated, the indication is to assist nature to re-establish nervous and vascular equilibrium, and for this, hygiene, interpreted somewhat broadly, is usually sufficient. The patient must be instructed and encouraged to put a little less than hitherto into her system and to take a little more than before out of it. All the organs of elimination must be kept well up to their work. Warm bathing, flesh-glove rubbing, mild laxatives, an occasional blue pill, plenty of fresh air, a simple and somewhat spare dietary, long nights, and a little patience, are in ordinary cases all that is wanted. Alcohol, even in moderate doses and in the mildest form, is much better avoided. When a stimu- lant is really indicated, quinine and strychnia with hydrobromic acid answer the purpose adequately, and these remedies have the merit of not being seductive. In cases of more severity, where the vascular and nervous systems are at all seriously dis- turbed, mild purgation followed by a short course of bromides and a fairly long one of Liq. ferri perchlor., combined with Liq. amm. acet., will usually quickly give relief. In climac- teric melancholia good results seem to follow far more quickly from eliminating agents— especially from pil. hydrar., in moderate doses every other night, and a saline every morning, for ten or twelve days—than from tonics. In all grave cases of nervous disturbance at the climacteric it should be borne in mind that many things often conspire with the menopause to break down the equilibrium of the nervous system even of the educated and comfortable classes. The mother of a large family has by no means a very easy life when she is about fifty. Her growing-up children, even if in all important respects satisfactory and dutiful, often work her much harder than as nursery children they did twenty years earlier. She has many to think for and to suit. The house is rarely quiet; each son and daughter brings friends—the duty of combining all the party and making the domestic machine move on oiled wheels is the mother's. The constant large parties at meals are a fatigue. The family holidays give her no rest. It is more trying to carry on life in lodgings or in a country house than at home, with a larger party and often fewer servants. For a patient so placed there is absolutely nothing so good, when she wants it and when it is possible to order it, as a real holiday, away from her family, and with no duties and no housekeep- ing. A month at Buxton or any similar place, under conditions of absolute rest, is of the greatest value. Where getting away from home is impossible, as it too often is, the patient should be induced to follow for a time, say two or three months, definite rules of life, which should include at least two hours of complete quietness and solitude each day, long nights, and three or four large warm baths each week. Our aim is to find the conditions which favour or permit the readjustment of the nervous and vascular equilibrium, knowing that in almost all cases nature will accomplish this if not hindered by interfering circumstances. Menori'hclg'icl. — Excessive menstrual flow. See Menstruation and its Disorders lyMenorrhagia and Metrorrhagia). See also Chlorosis (Si/tnptoms); Ectopic Gestation (General Symptoms): Gynaecology, Diagnosis in ; Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Lung, Tuberculosis of {Complications, Uro- genital) ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Symptoms, Genito - tirinary) ; Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoms); Uterus, Displacements of ; Uterus, Inflamma- tions of ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Uterus, Malignant Tumours op. MenostclSiS. — Suppression of the men- strual flow. Menses. — The recurrent monthly dis- charge of blood mixed with mucus from the uterus. See Menstruation and its Disorders. Menstrua.!.—Relating to menstruation {q.v.). Menstruation and its Dis- orders. Menstruation— Terminology ..... 336 Piiherty ...... 336 Normal Menstrvxition . . .337 The Menopause .... 340 Vicarious Menstruation . . . 340 The Hygiene of Menstrual Life . . 341 Amenorrhcea— Primary . . . . . .341 Secondary— Local Causes .... 342 General Causes .... 343 Treatment ..... 343336 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia— Causes ...... 345 Treatment . . . . .346 Dysmenorrhcea— Causes ...... 348 Varieties . . . . . .348 Treatment ..... 350 Intermenstrvul Pain . . . 352 Retention of the Menses— Causes—Acquired Atresia . . 352 Congenital Atresia . . 352 Symptoms ..... 353 Treatment ..... 353 Prognosis . . . . .354 See also Amenorrhcea ; Asthma {Cause of Attach) ; Breath [Clinical Diagnosis, Odour) ; Chlorosis {Symptoins) ; Climacteric Insanity ; Cryptomenorrhcea ; Dysmenorrhoea ; Ectopic Gestation {General Symptoms) ; Gynecology', Diagnosis in; Hematemesis (Vicarious Menst7-ua- tion); Hemoptysis (Vicarious); Heart, Affec- tions of Myocardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease) ; Hypnotism {Thera2)e%itic Uses, Menstrual Disorders); Hysteria {Disorders of Genital Organs); Infant Feeding {Breast Feeding, Retwrn of Menses); Liver, Diseases OF {Congestion, Active, Menstrual Jaundice); Menarche ; Menopause ; Ovaries, Diseases of ; Pelvis, Hematocele and Hematoma {Causes); Physiology, Reproduction {Menstt-uation) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential Diagnosis, Retai7ied Menses) ; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {Menstruation) ; Pruritus {Clinical Groups) ; Puberty ; Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exoph- thalmic Goitre, Genito - urinary Symptoms); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoms); Uterus, Malformations of ; Uterus, Displace- ments of ; Uterus, Inflammations of ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of ; Uterus, Malig- nant Tumours of ; Xenomenia. Menstruation Terminology.—During the reproductive period of a woman's life, from youth to middle age, the mucous membrane of the uterus undergoes at regular intervals a constructive change which has as its object the preparation of a suitable nest for the fertilised ovum. Should concep- tion not take place, a rapid destructive meta- bolism occurs, the fabric of the half-formed decidua tumbles to pieces, the turgid capillaries burst and pour out blood which sweeps away the useless tissue dt^bris; and then the whole cycle is repeated. This bloody discharge from the womb occurs in the great majority of women once a month, hence the process has received the name of " menstruation." The age of the first onset of menstruation is termed " Puberty." Menstruation itself is variously styled " the catamenia," the " menses," the "poorly times," the "monthly periods," the " courses," being " unwell," " having the flowers," etc. The cessation of menstruation is termed the " menopause," the " climacteric," or the " change of life." Suppression of the menses is called "amenorrhcea"; painful menstruation, "dys- menorrhoea "; excessive loss at the periods, " menorrhagia " ; and intermenstrual haemor- rhage, "metrorrhagia." Where the menstrual blood collects and is pent up in the genital canal it is termed " retention of the menses." Puberty.—Psychical Changes.—The age of " puberty" is characterised by the onset and establishment of the process of menstruation. It is the spring-time of a woman's life, and is marked not only by peculiar physical changes in her figure, gait, and generative organs, but by an equally remarkable transformation in her psychical and mental life. The current of her thoughts is mysteriously changed ; hopes and yearnings unknown before thrill and agitate her, and life acquires a new and deeper meaning. The romping tomboy becomes a shy and self- conscious maiden, with finer tastes and emotional fancies. The subtle forces of sex change the girl's soul into the woman's. Physical Changes.—Before puberty the girl's figure differs but little from the boy's. But now it becomes fuller and plumper, with graceful curves instead of sharp angles. The breasts rapidly develop and become firmer, fuller, and more sensitive. The thyroid gland swells and gives the neck that roundness peculiar to the sex. The voice changes and becomes fuller in compass, richer in quality. The pelvis broadens, the buttock and thighs become more developed, and hair appears on the pubes and in the axillae. The body of the uterus enlarges, and the mucosa becomes vascular and spongy and discharges blood. The first menstruation is sometimes preceded by certain premonitory symptoms— irritability of the temper, headache, and gastric disturbance, a sense of fulness, weight, and uneasiness in the pelvis and back, and often a mucous discharge from the genitals. Age.—The age of puberty in Great Britain is usually about the fifteenth year. It is, however, modified by several factors. It occurs earlier in the Tropics (tenth year), and later in the Arctic regions (eighteenth year). The influence of race is conspicuous. Thus Jewesses all over the world begin to menstruate at the same age. Girls born of English parents in India begin at the same age as their sisters living at home, whilst negresses brought up in temperate regions commence as early as they would in Central Africa. Puberty occurs earlier in the idle and wealthy classes than among the hard-working- poor, and it is said to occur earlier in girls brought up amidst immoral influences than in the children of virtuous households. Po'ecocious Puberty.—In rare cases the onset of menstruation, usually with other signs of puberty, occurs prematurely in childhood and even in infancy. Thus in one case a child wasMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 337 born with well-developed mammse, the pubes was covered with hair, and she menstruated regularly from her third year. Menstruation may indeed appear at any time from a few days after birth to the normal age of puberty. In a few cases there have been the other external signs of puberty without menstruation, and also menstruation without other signs of puberty. Several instances have been recorded where precocious puberty has been associated with pelvic tumours, such as ovarian cysts. In some of the cases where puberty has occurred precociously conception has taken place, e.g. in children aged from nine to thir- teen years. Delayed Puberty.—In other instances puberty may be abnormally late in manifesting itself without any obvious cause. Thus in one case it did not appear till the twenty-fifth year. Nubility.—Though normally the menstrual flow is established about the age of fifteen, the body is not physiologically fit for the strain of reproduction till some years later. In temperate climates a woman is not "nubile" till the age of twenty-one, though marriage, conception, and parturition frequently take place much earlier. Statistics show that such premature pregnancies are specially productive of suffering and disease in the mother, whilst the offspring are ill- developed, difficult to rear, and frequently afflicted in body and mind. Too early marriages tend to produce a puny, blighted, deteriorated race. The Phenomena of Normal Menstruation. —Periodicity.—At the outset we are struck by the extraordinary periodicity of the process. In this country the average healthy woman, from the age of fifteen to the age of forty-five, menstruates regularly every twenty-eight days. The menstrual clock is, so to speak, wound up to go for thirty years, and strike once every lunar month—a rhythm of function that suggests that it must be due to rhythmical changes in a controlling nerve centre. Type.—By the menstrual " type " is meant the number of days from the first day of one period to the first day of the next. It is the index of the woman's regularity. About 75 per cent of healthy women have a twenty-eight-day type, and about 15 per cent a thirty-day type. A few are over or under these limits. We are quite in the dark as to what essentially deter- mines a woman's menstrual type. Habit. — This term is used to denote the duration of the period. In healthy women it may last from two to eight days—usually from four to five days. From one to two ounces of blood are lost on an average on each day of the period. Clinically, we may form a rough estimate of the amount of loss by learning the number of diapers used—allowing about one ounce of blood to each diaper. The menstrual discharge, when fully estab- VOL. VI lished, is a thin dark bloody fluid, somewhat resembling prune juice, of alkaline reaction, and a peculiar heavy odour. In health it is pre- vented from clotting by the admixture of alkaline mucus. Microscopically it contains red and white blood corpuscles, columnar and cubical epithelium shed from the uterine mucous membrane and the uterine glands, connective- tissue cells, and minute particles of the sub- epithelial stroma. Mixed with it are numerous squamous epithelial cells from the vagina. In addition to the flow of blood there is also an increased secretion of the sebaceous glands of the vulva at the onset of menstruation, and an increased secretion of mucus from the uterus and vagina both before, during, and after the period. llie Menstrtml Wave.—Professor Stephenson has shown that menstrual life is associated with a well-marked wave of vital energy which manifests itself in a monthly fluctuation of the temperature of the body, of the daily excretion of urea, and of the rate and tension of the pulse. During the day or two preceding the period the temperature rises half a degree above normal, the amount of urea excreted attains its maximum, and the pulse-rate and arterial tension rise. During the period these various phenomena decline to normal, and after the period they fall to below normal. This wave indicates a periodic variation in the general metabolism, probably induced or influenced by the rhyth- mical activity of the nervous mechanism which controls menstruation. Nervous and Vascular Symptoms.—Each re- curring period is apt to produce disturbances in the woman's nervous system. Even in healthy women it induces a state of increased nervous instability and excitability, whilst lunatics and epileptics are always worse at these times. There is frequently headache, hypersesthesia, and irritability of the temper. The breasts may be swollen and tender. The thyroid glands may swell markedly. There is often a feeling of weight, fulness, and uneasiness in the pelvis, back, and lower abdomen, and frequently some irritability of the bladder. Pigmentary changes in the skin are not uncommon; for example, such dark areas may form round the eyes as to almost produce the appearance of a double "black eye." Changes in the Internal Genitals. —There is a general turgescence of the pelvic viscera (uterus, Fallopian tubes, and ovaries) most marked in the uterus, and reaching its acme at the onset of each menstrual epoch. In the ovaries there may or may not be a ripe follicle: it is now well established that ovulation and menstrua- tion are not coincident or consecutive processes. The uterus just before the onset of menstruation is swollen, erect, firm, and deeply congested. As menstruation proceeds its vascularity lessens, its muscular wall becomes softer and laxer, andMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 338 the canal of the cervix dilates. At the end of the period the uterus has shrunk and become pale and limp. Changes in the Mucosa. — There are great differences of opinion as to the actual changes that occur in normal menstruation. 1. Sir John Williams held that, in conse- quence of hsemorrhage into and fatty degenera- tion of the deepest layer of the mucosa, the whole of the endometrium was shed down to the muscular layer, and that a new mucosa was developed from the bases of the uterine glands. This view was based on autopsies made on patients dying from acute fever, and is now discredited. 2. Engelmann taiight that in consequence of fatty degeneration of the superficial layer of the mucosa this alone was shed, the deeper layer remaining. Pfluger and Tait insisted that a physiological freshening of the mucosa—the removal of its surface epithelium—was necessary for the im- plantation of a fertilised ovum. 3. Bland Sutton examined a number of hiiman uteri before, during, and after men- struation, and found (a) dilatation of the capillaries causing swelling of the mucosa; (6) rupture of some of the capillaries, the blood oozing into the stroma and into the cavity of the uterus; (c) shedding of only small and quite superficial portions of the epithelium; {d) no fatty degeneration. He also examined the uteri of menstruating baboons and Macaque monkeys, and found con- gestion and haemorrhage, but no shedding of the epithelium. Heape's researches on another monkey (Semno- pithecus Entellus) confirm Sutton's views, viz., that menstriiation consists in congestion, haemor- rhage, and shedding of part only of the lining epithelium and subepithelial stroma. 4. Arthur Johnstone's view is that the endo- metrium is an adenoid gland, that the menstrual discharge takes the place of the lymph stream, and washes away periodically those corpuscles which are too old to form decidual tissue. He holds that the uterine epithelium alone is shed, but the whole mucosa is not exfoliated. Relation to Ovulation. — Until very recent years menstruation was thought to be directly, or indirectly, brought about by the process of ovulation. Whilst most authorities held this view, there was nmch difference of opinion as to the precise relationship of the two phenomena. Once a month, in one or other ovary, a Graafian follicle was supposed to ripen and burst, and discharge its contained ovixm into the peritoneum, whence it was carried down the Fallopian tube into the uterus. Some held that this maturation of the follicle reflexly brought about a general turgescence of the internal genitals, and that the rupture of the follicle determined the onset of menstruation. Others thought that the ovum, rather than the Graafian follicle, was the essential cause; that each month an ovum was carried into the uterus, and (whether fertilised or not) directly stimu- lated the mucosa to active growth and increased vascularity. In the event of conception occur- ring the mucous membrane went on growing, and formed the decidua of pregnancy. But if impregnation failed to occur the ovum died, and this brought about a disintegration of the decidua and the phenomena of menstruation. A menstrual period was, according to this view, the abortion of an unfertilised ovum with its decidua—a missed pregnancy, in fact. It has, however, been shown that ovulation may and does take place independently of and in the absence of menstruation, and menstrua- tion may continue regularly and profusely after the complete removal of both ovaries. Graafian follicles ripen and burst long before puberty— even in early infancy—and they may continue to do so long after the menopause. Moreover, the maturation of the follicle is by no means coincident with any one phase of menstruation. The observations of Lawson Tait, Annie Clark, and others, have shown that ripe follicles may be found at any time during the period or during the intermenstrual interval. Ovulation goes on during pregnancy, during lactation, and in certain pathological states (such as anaemia) when menstruation is in abeyance. Some women never menstruate and yet ovulate (as is proved by their becoming pregnant). In certain pseudo-hermaphrodites (shown to possess uteri and testes, but not ovaries) menstruation has been observed. For these and other reasons the plausible fascinating ovular theory of men- struation is now generally discarded. At the same time, it is going too far to say that the ovaries have no influence at all on the uterus. There is undoubtedly a most intimate and subtle sympathy between them. It is probable that changes in the ovaries influence the uterus reflexly through the nervous system, and it is possible that the ovaries add to the blood cir- culating through them some peculiar product of their metabolism, and this "internal secre- tion " may powerfully modify the uterine functions. Certain it is, that many lesions of the ovary are associated with painful, profuse, or suppressed menstruation, and that complete removal of both ovaries brings about permanent cessation of the periods in 95 per cent of the cases, whilst they continue unaltered if only a portion of one ovary be left. Relation to the CEstrus.—In many of the lower animals the females at certain intervals pass into a state of sexual activity which is called the "oestrus" or "rut." In popular language the animal is said to be " in heat." The uterus and vagina become swollen and congested, and pour out an increased quantity of mucus sometimes tinged with blood. The339 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS vulva becomes moist, turgid, dilated, and hypersensitive. The sexual appetite, usually entirely in abeyance in the intervals, becomes imperative, dominates the animal's actions, and leads her to solicit the male. Now, it has been thought that menstruation in the woman corresponds to and has evolved out of the oestrus in the animal. This may be so, but it is a most significant fact that, both among civilised and savage races all over the world, sexual congress is not permitted during men- struation, whilst amongst animals it is only when in "heat" that coitus takes place, and it is only then that impregnation can occur. It is probable that the "oestrus" is a process evolved by natural selection, with the object of limiting coitus (and therefore conception) to certain seasons of the year, in order that the young might be brought forth under the most favovirable conditions of climate and food-supply. Relation to the Nervous System.—It is highly probable that all the active tissues of the body are under the control of two sets of nerves— anabolic and katabolic. An anabolic nerve brings about constructive metabolism, produces a building-up of the tissues, repair of waste, a storing up of energy. Examples of this are found in the cardiac branches of the vagus, the chorda tympani, and trophic nerves to muscles. A katabolic nerve stimulates the destructive metabolism which is always going on in the tissues ; it brings about a liberation of energy, followed by exhaustion. Examples of this action may be found in the motor nerves of muscles, the accelerator nerve of the heart, and the sympathetic nerve to the submaxillary gland. Now, in the case of the uterus, the organ is considered to be dominated by anabolic nerves during the intermenstrual interval—engaged in a constructive metabolism, preparing a decidua, building a nest for the expected ovum. But should conception not occur within a definite period the katabolic nerves assert their in- fluence, the actively growing mucosa undergoes a rapid destructive metabolism, its fabric breaks down, its capillaries burst and pour out blood which sweeps away the useless tissue debris. Then once more the uterus comes under the control of anabolic nerves and the whole cycle is repeated. But should impregnation occur the anabolic influence is augmented and continued until the close of gestation, constructive metabolism goes on uninterruptedly, and the uterus actively grows. Menstruation, being a katabolic process, is in abeyance. But, at the end of the nine months of gestation, katabolic forces gain the upper hand, and parturition (involving a great expenditure of energy) takes place. Then the uterus, by the process of involution, a de- structive metabolism, slowly returns to its normal condition. Geddes and Thomson hold that menstruation has an important relationship to the balancing of anabolism and katabolism in the female. After puberty, anabolism (or storing up of energy and building up of tissue) preponder- ates over katabolism. In pregnancy this sur- plus is spent in nourishing the foetus; in lactation, in feeding the child; and at other times, in menstruation. They look upon it as a highly specialised process, developed in the evolution of the higher Mammalia (monkeys and man), by which the two great forces of the body-metabolism (anabolism and katabolism) are properly balanced. The menstrual flow is only the most obvious outward and visible sign of this process. It is probable that menstruation is directly governed by special nerves emanating from a special nerve centre in the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. In many organs of the body there is a periodic variation in activity, and in every instance known this may be traced to a rhythmical emission of nerve force from a special controlling centre. As examples of such centres may be cited the cardiac, respiratory, vasomotor, and splenic centres. The nervous disturbances which manifest themselves at puberty, at the menstrual period, and at the menopause, indicate an intimate connection between the process of menstruation and the central nervous system. The uterus is supplied on each side by two plexuses—the ovarian plexus and the utero- vaginal plexus. The ovarian plexus is derived from the aortico-renal plexus. Filaments from the last dorsal and upper four lumbar nerves have been traced into it; it accompanies the ovarian artery, sends branches to the ovary and Fallopian tube, and after communicating in the broad ligament with the utero-vaginal plexus ends in the uterus. The utero-vaginal plexus is derived from the hypogastric plexus, into which the "pelvic splanchnics " from the second and third sacral nerves pass. The nerves destined for the uterus accompany the branches of the uterine artery between the layers of the broad ligament, where they communicate with the ovarian plexus. There are numerous ganglia in the plexus; a large one situated on the cervex has been termed the "ganglion cervicale uteri." Nerve filaments have been traced into the mucous membrane of the uterus, where, according to Frankenhiiuser, they end in ganglia. The pelvic splanchnics arise in the lumbar cord, in the cells of the posterior vesicular column of Clark, being also connected with the cells of the lateral horn. They emerge in the roots of the second and third sacral nerves, and without entering the chain of lateral ganglia, pass directly into the hypo- gastric plexus, from whence they are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They are chiefly vaso- dilator in function, bringing about that vascular340 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS engorgement in the uterus and appendages which is such a marked feature of menstruation. The position of the menstrual centre can only be surmised, but it is probable that it is situated in the lumbar enlargement of the spinal cord. This portion of the cord is intimately associated with all the pelvic functions. It has been proved to contain, in the human being, centres for micturition, defecation, erection, and ejacula- tion. Experiments in animals have demon- strated that it contains a parturition centre in the bitch, and there is probably one there also in the woman. And if the parturition centre be found there, the menstrual centre will not be far away. The Menopause.—The "menopause," "climac- teric," or " change of life " is essentially charac- terised by the cessation of the menses. Of women living in a temperate climate, in 25 per cent it occurs between the age of forty and forty-five, and in 50 per cent between forty-five and fifty. In a small minority of cases it occurs under forty or over fifty. It takes place later in women living in cold than in hot climates, and later in those who live a luxurious, lazy life than in the hard-working poor. Jewesses living in this country have the change some- what earlier than other women. It is the autumn of a woman's life. Her summer with its blossom and fruit has passed ; her reproductive forces have spent themselves. She begins to feel the burden of years and the approach of old age. The menses cease sometimes abruptly, more often gradually. The periods become irregular —the flow being sometimes excessive, some- times scanty. The intermenstrual intervals alter, usually becoming more and more pro- longed. In some women there is nearly con- stant dribbling of blood, alternating with severe floodings. This period of irregular fitful losses is often spoken of as the "dodging time." The woman's figure alters and loses much of its grace. Most women put on fat, especially in the abdomen. Occasionally this is so marked as to suggest pregnancy or abdominal tumour. Others, especially if they be unmarried, become lean and scraggy. The skin loses its bloom and fineness of texture, and becomes coarse, opaque, and wrinkled. In a few cases the figure becomes more masculine, and straggling hairs develop on the chin, cheek, or upper lip. The breasts become either shrunk and atrophied or loaded with fat. The fat about the vulva disappears, and the labia become flaccid folds of skin. The ostium vaginae becomes smaller, and all the tissue of the external genitals tougher and less resilient. The vagina becomes shorter, narrower, smoother, and less elastic. The upper end of the vagina contracts, and the fornices tend to become obliterated. The uterus atrophies—becomes shorter, narrower, less vascular, and diminished in weight. The cervix projects less into the vagina. The en- dometrium becomes paler, thinner, and more fibrous, and the glands disappear. The ovaries become small, hard, and wrinkled; the Graafian follicles disappear; and the stroma contracts into a knot of dense fibrous tissue. Coincident with these physical changes there are marked nervous, especially vasomotor, dis- turbances. The most frequent phenomena are heats and flushes, irregular palpitations, profuse perspirations, and feelings of giddiness, faint- ness, and exhavistion. There may be morbid fears, mental depression, loss of memory, and irritability of temper. She may complain of numbness and tingling in her hands and feet. At other times there is a condition of hyper- sesthesia of the special senses, so that noises, smells, and lights, which formerly she would not have noticed, distress and agitate her. In some cases the mental disturbance verges on insanity : she becomes suspicious of those around her; has fixed delusions, and suicidal or homicidal impulses. In others there is marked moral perversion, especially a craving for alcohol. With the cessation of the menses, the sexual appetite usually wanes, but in a few cases it becomes distressingly intense. The climacteric renders a woman peculiarly liable to certain diseases. Among these may be mentioned cancer (especially of the uterus and breast), pruritus vulvae, prolapse of the vagina and uterus, urethral caruncle, kraurosis vulvae, disorders of digestion (such as nausea, heart- burn, flatulence, and constipation), some forms of insanity, gout, and diabetes. (See " Climac- teric Insanity," vol. ii., and " Menopause.") The change of life may be induced pre- maturely by—-(1) The complete removal of the uterus, or both uterine appendages by operation. (2) The complete functional destruction of both ovaries by disease, such as advanced cirrhosis, new growths, and inflammation. (3) Any cause of great nervous depression, such as shock, fright, anxiety, and exposure to cold. (4) Ex- hausting diseases, such as phthisis, prolonged haemorrhages, acute fevers, chronic alcoholism, myxoedema, and diabetes. The climacteric may be delayed much beyond the normal, usually in consequence of some local pelvic disease, such as myoma, cancer, or endometritis. Vicarious Menstruation.—By this is meant a discharge, usually of blood, from some part other than the uterus, occurring once a month, and apparently taking the place of the normal menstrual discharge. In most of these cases menstruation proper is very scanty or entirely in abeyance. It is a rare and puzzling condi- tion, and its etiology is obscure. It is supposed (1) that there is some morbid condition of the uterine mucosa which interferes with the natural outpouring of menstrual blood ; (2) that there is at each period a condition of high341 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS vascular tension; and (3) that in consequence of some weakness of the capillaries in another part of the body, hsemorrhage there occurs. It has been observed from the gums, the nose, the stomach, the rectum, the lungs, the bladderj the breast, the conjunctiva, the unbroken skin, and from open wounds and ulcers. In some cases, in place of a flow of blood, there is a monthly discharge of milk (in the case of the breasts) or diarrhoea (in the case of the bowels). The Hygiene of Menstrual Life 1. Puberty.—At this period of a girl's life it is important that she be not subjected to any great mental or physical strain. She must lead as quiet and even a life as possible, be warmly clad, have a simple, easily digested dietary, take moderate exercise in the open air, and regulate her bowels. It is advisable at this time that her mother or some judicious friend should explain to her the meaning of the menstrual flow, and impart to her some of the rudimentary facts of sexual physiology. (See " Puberty.") 2. The Menstrual Period.—Although this is a physiological process, it is so frequently dis- ordered and painfTil that it is commonly looked upon as a pathological condition. The patient describes herself as "being unwell" or "being poorly." It is important that during men- struation she should rest as much as possible in the recumbent position if the periods be ex- cessive or painful. She should take light, unstimulating diet, and see that her bowels are kept freely open. All severe nervous strain or muscular exertion must be avoided. Locally she must keep the genitals as clean as possible by bathing the vulva in warm water, and changing her diapers when soiled. Many women have a foolish objection to washing themselves during their periods; but a w^arm bath is not only harmless, but soothing and beneficial at these times. A warm vaginal douch (at 100" F.), to which a little boracic acid has been added, is often comforting during the period. It is not advisable to perform any surgical operation—unless it be imperative— during menstruation, as the woman's nervous system is in an excitable, hypersensitive con- dition. Moreover, the menstrual secretion is an excellent culture medium for germs, and might be a source of sepsis. In particular, operations on the uterus should be avoided, as these organs are in a turgid, excitable state, and thus prone to bleed or become inflamed. The best time to operate on a woman is usually during the week after menstruation has ceased. 3. The Menopause.—We have now, as a rule, marked nervous disturbances, heats and flushes, palpitations, depression of spirits, etc. The patient must be encouraged as much as possible, and assured that these symptoms which so distress her are natural and to be expected at her time of life, that she must have patience, and in due season they will all subside. If they be severe, much relief may be obtained by administering bromide of potash with bella- donna, and, if this fails, by giving tabloids of ovarian tissue. She must be warned not to take alcohol, the temptation to take stimulants being very great at the menopause. Her medical attendant must ever bear in mind how prone women are at this time to develop malignant disease, especially in the breast and uterus. He must, therefore, insist on a thorough examination should the patient mani- fest any symptom of this dreadful malady. Amenorrhcea. — By amenorrhoea we mean absence or suppression of the menstrual flow. It must not be confounded with " retention of the menses "—a condition in which the menstrual blood is poured out, but, from atresia of part of the genital canal, cannot find exit and collects within the body. It is convenient to distinguish between primary and secondary amenorrhoea. Primary amenorrhoea signifies the absence of the menses in a woman who has never menstruated. Secondary amenorrhoea means the cessation of the menses, temporarily or permanently, after the onset of puberty and the regular establishment of the monthly flow. I. Primary Amenorrhcea.—It would seem that for the normal occurrence of puberty three factors are necessary: (1) A normal condition of the blood. (2) A normal condition of the nerve centres. (3) A normal develop- ment of the internal genitals. If any of these factors be at fault the menses may fail to appear. We shall, therefore, consider cases of primary amenorrhoea under three headings : (a) Those due to faults in the blood. {h) Those due to nervous disturbances, (c) Those due to errors of development. (a) Primary Amenorrhoea due to Faults in the Blood.—Certain debilitating diseases, such as tuberculosis, Bright's disease, and chlorosis may develop before the normal age of puberty. When the time for this arrives, the blood is so impoverished that the processes necessary for the production of menstruation cannot take place. Puberty is delayed for months or years. When, finally, the periods do appear, they are apt to be irregular, occurring at long intervals and lasting only a few hours, the discharge being scanty in amount and pale in colour. (b) Primary Amenorrhoea due to Nervous Causes.—This is apt to occur in two classes of the community — (1) Amongst the upper classes in girls who are subject to mental over- work, such as cramming for examinations. (2) Amongst the lower classes in girls who are put to physical labour too great for their strength. In these cases the blood may be342 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDEES normal, and there may be no defect in the development of the genitals. The body is ripe for puberity; but, from the overtaxing of the brain or the body, the necessary nerve force is diverted into abnormal channels, and the phenomena of puberty do not appear. (c) Primary Amenorrhcea due to Defects of Development.—In some of the cases the uterus, ovaries, and tubes are entirely absent, or, if present, remain in the infantile condition. The external signs of puberty fail to appear; the breasts remain small and fiat; there is an absence of hair on the pubes, and the vulva resembles that of a child. There is also an absence of the psychical phenomena of puberty, and the emotions and instincts of sex do not develop. In other cases where menstruation fails to appear there is a development of many of the sexual characters of the male. The body acquires a distinctly masculine type. The pelvis remains narrow. Hair develops on the abdomen and chest and sometimes on the upper lip, chin, or cheeks. The voice, the gait, the figure, and the tastes become " mannish." Occasionally there is an extraordinary develop- ment of the muscular system, and hence probably the female "Samson" and "Hercules" of the shows. The external genitals may be quite normal, but the uterus is either absent or feebly developed. These masculine women rarely menstruate; if they do, puberty is much delayed, and when the periods do appear they are irregular and scanty—a mere apology for menstruation. II. Secondary Amenorrhcea.—This may be caused by either local or general conditions:— Local Causes.—1. Pregnancy and lactation. 2. Hysterectomy. 3. Atrophy of the uterus. 4. Oophorectomy. 5. Diseases of the ovaries. General Causes. — 1. Anaemia. 2. Nervous disturbances. 3. Disorders of metabolism. Arnenorrhoea in Pregnancy and Lactation.— The menses are physiologically absent in utero- gestation and lactation. Normally, a woman ceases to menstruate from the time of concep- tion till the end of lactation — a period of eighteen or twenty months. Of all the symptoms of pregnancy, amenorrhcea is the most constant. It is not, however, invariable, as some women menstruate regularly during the first three or four months of gestation, and in rare instances throughout the whole nine months. This is explained by the non-fusion of the decidua vera with the decidua reflexa, whereby the endometric cavity is preserved. Some women always menstruate during lacta- tion. In tubal pregnancy there is generally a short period of amenorrhcea, from five to eight weeks, followed by irregular losses. In abdominal pregnancy there is often total sup- pression of the menses as long as the child is alive. After it dies the periods reappear. In both tubal and abdominal pregnancy, however, menstruation may continue unaffected. Amenorrhcea after Hysterectomy.—It is obvious that if the uterus—the menstrual organ—be completely removed by abdominal or vaginal section, menstruation must cease. If, however, only partial hysterectomy be performed, as in the clamp and subperitoneal methods, it is possible for the periods to continue. In such cases it will be found that a portion of the uterus above the level of the os internum has been left behind. Amenorrhoea from Atrophy of the Uterus.— After parturition the uterus undergoes a physio- logical atrophy called " involution." The hyper- trophied muscular fibres contract and un- dergo a process of fatty degeneration. The enlarged blood-vessels shrink, and the blood sinuses become occluded. The greater part of the decidua undergoes fatty degeneration and melts away in the lochial discharge; only the deep glandular layer next to the muscular coat remains, and from it the new mucosa is b)iilt up. The surface epithelium is formed from the epithelium of the remnants of the glands. By the end of the fifth week after delivery the new mucous membrane is, as a rule, complete. Normally, however, the uterus never quite returns to its virgin condition, the parous uterus being distinctly larger than the nuUiparous. Occasionally, after severe post-partum haemor- rhage, or too prolonged lactation, the process of involution progresses beyond the normal, and the uterus undergoes extreme atrophy or super- involution. A similar condition of atrophy of the uterus may be induced, quite apart from delivery, by certain debilitating diseases, such as tuberculosis, syphilis, Bright's disease, and profound ansemia; also by chronic pelvic in- flammation, severe enough to destroy the ovaries or interfere with the blood-supply of the uterus. However caused, this atrophy of the uterus is characterised by complete and permanent cessation of menstruation. The uterus shrinks till it may be little more than an inch long, with thin flaccid walls and a pale thin fibrous mucosa. Amenorrhoea after Oophorectomy. — If the uterine appendages be removed on one side only, menstruation is not interfered with. If they be completely removed on both sides, the operation brings about, in 95 per cent of the cases, permanent cessation of the menses and a premature menopause. This post-operation climacteric is accompanied by the same peculiar nervous disturbances as characterise the natural change of life. Amenorrhoea from Disease of the Ovaries.— Ovarian tumours do not, as a rule, interfere with menstruation ; but sometimes they cause very scanty catamenia and occasionally totalMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 343 amenorrhoea. This is especially apt to occur when both ovaries are affected. After severe double oophoritis and in cases of advanced sclerosis of the ovaries, menstrua- tion may entirely cease. In these cases there is complete destruction of the ovaries as functional organs. Amenorrhoea from Ance7nia. — The most fre- quent causes of amenorrhoea, exclusive of preg- nancy, are those due to debilitating diseases which impoverish the blood. Such are tubercu- losis, Bright's disease, malaria and other fevers, syphilis, and especially chlorosis. All these dis- eases produce more or less anjemia ; and it is the anaemia, rather than any specific effect of the dis- ease on the uterus, which causes the amenorrhoea. Chlorosis is a disease which has some mysteri- ous relationship to the functions of the female sexual organs. It never occurs in the male sex, and is peculiar to adolescent females. It is most common between the ages of fifteen and twenty years. It is seldom seen in married women, and hardly ever in those who have borne children. It is most apt to occur in the ill-fed, overworked girls of large towns, who sleep and labour under insanitary conditions. Amongst accessory causes are want of outdoor exercise, want of sunshine, tight lacing, and disappointment in love. It is characterised by pallor—in advanced cases, of a greenish-yellow tint—breathlessness and palpitation on exercise, constipation, indigestion, and amenorrhoea. Loud hsemic murmurs are heard over the heart and root of the neck. The essential change in the blood is a remarkable diminution of hajmoglobin, together with a slight diminution in the number of red corpuscles. Amenorrhoea from Nervous Disturbances.—In some young women a mere change of environ- ment will arrest the periods. Thus a long sea- voyage, a visit to the Continent, a change of residence from the country to the town or vice versa, will bring on amenorrhoea—usually only temporary—without any other signs of disease. It is probable that this amenorrhoea is brought about by nervous influences. A violent nervous shock, such as suddenly receiving bad news, may cause temporary or permanent cessation of the menses. Probably also severe chills, as from exposure to cold and wet, act through the nervous system in causing a passing amenorrhoea. In certain forms of insanity, especially melancholia, and the in- sanity of adolescence, there is often suppression of the menses. In cases of " pseudo-cyesis" where, by a process of auto-suggestion, the patient believes herself to be pregnant, there is not only amenorrhoea, but a remarkable simulation of the other symptoms of pregnancy. Thus a young, recently-married woman, who ardently desires to have a child, ceases to men- struate and imagines she has conceived. Her abdomen and breasts swell, she suffers from morning sickness, and may even fancy she feels the foetal movements. She consults a medical man, who examines her and finds an absolutely normal non-gravid uterus. Or an uimiarried woman, who in a weak moment has permitted coitus to take place, becomes alarmed less she be pregnant. Her fright itself brings about a stoppage of the periods, and this in turn intensifies her mental distress. At last, in desperation, she consults a medical man, who examines her, but finds no sign of pregnancy. Amenorrhoea from Disordered Metabolism.— There are certain cases of amenorrhoea which are associated with obesity and with plethora. It is probable that the amenorrhoea neither causes nor is caused by either of these condi- tions, but that both sets of phenomena are expressions of a disturbance of the general metabolism. We may suppose that in such cases the anabolic forces of the body acquire undue predominance, whilst the katabolic in- fluences are in abeyance. This abnormal ana- bolism leads to an excessive building up of adipose tissue, or to an excessive formation of blood; whilst menstruation, being a katabolic process, is suppressed. It is possible that this disturbance of the balance of anabolism and katabolism is due to some fault in the internal secretion of the ovary. Whatever be the ex- planation, there can be no doubt of the clinical facts, viz., that we not infrequently see cases of amenoi-rhoea associated with excessive obesity and (though more rarely) with a tendency to plethora. It is probable that the amenorrhoea of myxoedema is to be accounted for in a similar fashion, viz., as an expression of a disturbance of metabolism. Treatment of Primary Amenorrhcea. — (1) Due to Anosmia.—We must improve the quality of the patient's blood, and try and remove the cause of the general debility. Thus chlorosis must be treated with iron and arsenic, saline aperients, good food, and fresh air. In cases of tuberculosis, cod-liver oil, iodide of iron, and the hypophosphites are indicated. In Bright's disease, diuretics, diaphoretics, and aperients should be given as required, whilst rest, milk diet, and avoidance of cold and wet must be enjoined. When the symptoms of the general disease subside and the quality of the blood improves, signs of puberty will manifest them- selves, and menstruation become established. (2) In cases of amenorrhoea due to mental or physical overstrain, the treatment is simple : we must remove the cause. Rest must be given in the one case to the overtaxed brain, and in the other to the exhausted body, and in due course puberty will appear. All who are placed in charge of girls, such as mothers and school-mistresses, should be warned of the evils that may follow either mental or physical over- work at this period of a girl's life.MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 344 (3) Cases of primary amenorrhoea due to defects in development are very unsatisfactory to treat. When the uterus is congenitally absent, it is, of course, folly to expect, by any line of treatment, to bring on menstruation. For the masculine type of women with amenor- rhoea, as a rule, nothing can be done. They must make up their minds to pass through life as they are, and bear the burden of their sexual anomaly to the grave. In cases where there is only a small and poorly-developed uterus, with delay in the onset of puberty, tabloids of ovarian tissue, together with general blood tonics (such as iron, arsenic, and manganese), may be administered with some hope of success. Treatment of Secondary Amenorrhcea.— (1) In Pregnancy and Lactation.—The amenor- rhoea of normal pregnancy and lactation calls for no treatment; it is a physiological condi- tion. In every case of absence of the menses, whether in the married or single, the physician should always first satisfy himself that the patient is not pregnant before commencing active treatment. He should also bear in mind that it is possible for a suckling woman to conceive. The amenorrhoea due to ectopic gestation does not itself call for treatment—it is only a symptom of a grave pelvic lesion. But this lesion calls for active treatment most urgently. A surgeon should be called in with- out delay, as in the great majority of cases an operation for the removal of the pregnancy is necessary. (2) After Hysterectomy. — Nothing can be done, even were it desirable, to restore the menstrual function in these cases. (3) In Atrophy of the Utertcs.—Here the lesion is almost invariably a permanent one, and it is futile to attempt by treatment to restore the lost menstrual function. (4) After Oophorectomy. —Here also we cannot expect to recall the catamenia. We can, how- ever, do something to relieve the distressing nervous symptoms that supervene. These symptoms are much more severe after double oophorectomy than after hysterectomy (without sacrifice of the ovaries) and are probably due to the want in the system of the internal secretion of the ovary. Certain it is that we can greatly mitigate them by administering tabloids of ovarian tissue, just as we can remove the symptoms of myxoedema by giving thyroid tabloids. (5) In Disease of the Ovaries. — Here it is the primary disease of the ovary, and not the secondary amenorrhoea, that calls for treatment. (6) In Ancemia.—In amenorrhoea caused by anfemia our first aim should be to cure the primary disease which has impoverished the blood. Thus tuberculosis, malaria, syphilis, and Bright's disease must each be treated secundum artem. If the antemia persists, hsematinics, such as iron, arsenic, and manganese, are indicated. As the primary disease subsides and the quality of the blood improves, the menstrual functions will return. Let us now consider with somewhat more detail the treatment of amenorrhoea due to chlorosis — the most common cause of the condition and the one most amenable to treat- ment. This consists essentially in the ad- ministration of large doses of iron, in a form easily assimilated and least likely to upset the digestion. The best preparation of iron is undoubtedly ferrous carbonate (in the familiar form of Blaud's pill). The citrate of iron and ammonia, and the various chalybeate waters are also valuable. In nearly all cases there is obstinate constipation, and it will be found that unless this be overcome, the iron is of little use. It is necessary, therefore, to regulate the bowels with saline aperients (such as sulphate of magnesia), aloes, or cascara. A time-honoured and most efficacious mixture is that containing sulphate of iron, sulphate of magnesia, dilute sulphuric acid, glycerine, and peppermint water. Inferior to iron, but often usefully given in combination with it are arsenic and manganese, whilst quinine, nux vomica, and calumba are useful adjuvants. The digestion must be attended to, and if there be chronic gastric catarrh this should be remedied (before com- mencing the course of iron) by rhubarb and soda, etc. The diet must be regulated. The patient must avoid strong tea, and all highly- spiced and indigestible dishes. An abundance of wholesome blood-forming food (milk, eggs, red meat, and beef-juice) should be given. Alcohol is not usually necessary, but in some cases the light red wines, such as Burgundy, seem to hasten recovery. In the case of the girl who is overtaxing her brain (as in schools) or her body (as in domestic service and factories), it is important to give her a complete rest or change of occupation. If her strength permit she should take judicious exercise, short of fatigue, in the open air and sunshine. If there be any suspicion of tight lacing, this must be prohibited, and the girl taught how to dress rationally. (7) Fi'om Nervous Disturbances.—As a rule, amenorrhoea from nervous causes is only temporary, and the periods return when the cause is removed. In cases of pseudo-cyesis the best method of restoring the menstrual flow is a correct diagnosis. Convince the patient that she is not pregnant and the uterus will soon resume its functions. When due to mere change of climate, the amenorrhoea will cease when the patient has become acclimatised to her new surroundings or when she returns to her old home. Exposure to cold and wet may stop the period for one month, but rarely longer. A violent nervous shock, on the other hand.MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 345 may cause a permanent arrest of menstruation and a premature menopause. In these cases of nervous amenorrhoea the first essential is the removal of all causes of nervous disturbance. A change of scene and change of occupation and cheerful surroundings are advisable. If there be nervous excitement, sedatives, such as bromide of potash and chloral, may be needed. If there be nervous depression, tonics, such as strychnine and damiana, are useful. If there be a tendency to ansemia, iron and arsenic are called for. If there be constipation, aloes and cascara should be given. Should these various measures fail to restore the periods, then emmenagogues (drugs which act as uterine stimulants) ,should be tried. The most useful of these are senecio, apiol, caulo- phyllum, Pulsatilla, manganese, and tabloids of ovarian tissue. 8. From Disordered Metabolism.—In amenor- rhoea associated with obesity, plethora, or myxoedema, it is more important to treat these conditions than the amenorrhoea. The tendency to obesity must be combated by a strict "anti- fat " regimen, outdoor exercise, vapour baths, and aperients. Tabloids of thyroid gland are often very efficacious, not only in reducing the excess of fat, but also in restoring the functions of the uterus. It is, however, a remedy which must be carefully watched, as in some cases it causes alarming palpitation and cardialgia. The plethoric cases require a spare, non- stimulating diet, plenty of outdoor exercise, saline aperients, and vascular and nervine sedatives—-especially bromides, valerian and aconite. Stimulants (such as alcohol, tea, and coffee) and tonics (such as iron and strychnine) must be avoided, as they will only aggravate the symptoms of plethora. In severe cases occasional blood-letting is decidedly beneficial. For the myxoedematous cases there is one sovereign remedy—tabloids of thyroid tissue. As the myxoedema subsides, the menstrual periods become re-established. Menorrhagia and Metrorrhagia By menorrhagia is meant excessive menstrua- tion. This may be due to three factors—(a) A change in the "type," e.g. instead of the period occurring every four weeks it may appear every three weeks. (5) A change in the "habit," e.g. instead of lasting from four to six days it may last ten or twelve, (c) A change in the amount of blood lost each day, e.g. instead of a patient using one or two diapers daily, she may soil three or four a day. Whichever factor be modified, the ultimate result is an abnormal drain of blood from the body. All three factors may be altered : thus a patient who previously menstruated every twenty-eight days, for four days, using one diaper a day, may come on unwell every twenty- one days, for seven days, using three diapers a day. In determining, therefore, whether or not a given patient's menstruation is excessive we must take into consideration her "type," her " habit," and the number of diapers soiled. By metrorrhagia is meant haemorrhage from the uterus at other times than the monthly periods. It is independent of the menstrual process, and is quite irregular in frequency, duration, and quantity. In some cases, as where there is cancer and myoma, the patient suffers from both menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia. Causes.—The causes of hsemorrhage from the uterus are many and varied. They may be considered under two headings—(1) those which are general, systemic, or predisposing ; (2) those which are local, pelvic, or exciting causes. 1. General Causes.—{a) Any disorder of the system which diminishes the coagvilability of the blood or which lessens the resistance of the capillary walls. Amongst these may be classed such blood diseases as purpura hsemorrhagica, scurvy, haemophilia, acute fevers (such as small- pox, typhus, and malaria), cholsemia, cirrhosis of the liver, chronic alcoholism, phosphorus poisoning, and lead poisoning. (b) Any condition which causes increased backward pressure in the abdominal veins and chronic venous congestion of the pelvic viscera, such as valvular heart disease, cirrhosis of the lung, emphysema, constipation, tight lacing, and abdominal tumovirs obstructing the pelvic veins. 2. Local Causes.—These act (1) by causing acute or chronic engorgement of the pelvic viscera in general, and of the uterus in par- ticular ; or (2) by causing a direct breach of the uterine mucosa. (a) Certain Complications of Pregnancy.— The most common of these are placenta preevia, partial separation of the placenta, threatened abortion, and vesicular mole. In all these con- ditions the essential cause of the bleeding is a partial separation of the placenta, tearing open the uterine venous sinuses, whilst at the same time the uterus cannot contract and retract because of its contents. (6) Certain Complications of the Puerperium. —Such are inversion of the uterus, subinvolu- tion and retention of portions of placenta. The latter condition is an extremely common cause, and should always be suspected when after a miscarriage or full-time labour irregular flood- ings occur and recur in spite of rest, ergot, and hydrastis. (c) The various lesions of ectopic gestation, such as ruptured tubal pregnancy, tubal abor- tion, and pelvic heematocele. The uterine mucosa becomes hypertrophied and hypertemic, and is often discharged as a complete decidual cast of the cavity of the uterus. In many casesMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 346 this decidua acts as a foreign body in the uterus, and is the exciting cause of the hsemorrhages. It acts, in fact, much as a piece of retained placenta or a polypus does. (d) Any acute or chronic inflammation in the uterus, tubes, or ovaries may give rise to menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia. In the case of the uterus there may be metritis, endometritis, and erosion of the cervix ; in the tubes there may be salpingitis and pyo-salpinx ; in the ovary oopho- ritis and ovarian abscess. Of these various lesions endometritis is the most frequent cause of uterine hsemorrhagia, partly from its causing increased vascularity of the mucosa, partly from the capillary walls becoming friable and easily ruptured. In some cases there is a direct breach of the mucous membrane from a process of ulceration. (e) Certain Displacements of the Uterus, such as Retroversion and Prolapse.—It is probable, however, that in these cases the haemorrhage is due not so much to the displacement as to the accompanying metritis and endometritis. Cer- tain it is that in many cases of very marked prolapse there is no increase whatever in the menstrual loss. (/) New growths in the uterus and ovaries are very common causes of menorrhagia and metrorrhagia. In the uterus there may be a polypus, myoma, epithelioma, carcinoma, or sarcoma. In the ovaries there may be cystoma, fibroma, sarcoma, or carcinoma. Of these, myomata are frequently the cause in youth and early middle life, from twenty-five to forty, whilst cancer is always to be watched for in women between forty and sixty years of age. Myomata cause the periods to become more and more profuse, to occur at shorter and shorter intervals, and to last longer. The nearer the myomata to the mucosa the greater the hsemor- rhage. Thus submucous fibroids cause more loss than do the interstitial growths. In many of these cases there is co-existing endometritis, and from this, no doubt, comes much of the bleeding. In the case of big myomata the veins of the broad ligament are pressed on, and this causes uterine congestion and haemorrhage. When tumours of the ovaries cause menor- rhagia or metrorrhagia it is usually due to their pressing on the pelvic veins and hindering the return of blood from the uterus. In most cases of ovarian cyst menstruation is unaffected ; in a few it is scanty or suppressed; in a few it is excessive. In young unmarried women uterine haemor- rhage is generally due to some systemic cause. In mature married women the most common causes are those connected with pregnancy, pelvic inflammations, and myomata. In women at and beyond the climacteric the most common cause is cancer. In young single women it is not usually necessary to make a vaginal examination, unless the haemorrhage be severe or medicinal treat- ment fail to check it. In all other cases the importance of making, without delay, a thorough pelvic examination cannot be too strongly urged. This is especially necessary in metrorrhagia oc- curring at or after the menopause, and so often due to malignant disease. The only hope of cure of this dreadfully prevalent malady lies in its removal in the earliest possible stage, and for this its prompt recognition is essential. If a simple bi-manual examination does not clear up the diagnosis, the cervix should be dilated, the interior of the uterus explored with the finger and curette, and the scrapings examined microscopically by a competent pathologist. The symptoms of menorrhagia and metror- rhagia are those of acute or chronic haemorrhage superadded to those of the primary disease causing it. Treatment.—In most cases of uterine haem- orrhage there are three main lines of treat- ment—(1) attention to the general health; (2) the removal of any local cause; (3) the arrest of the haemorrhage. 1. The General Health. —(a) A careful ex- amination of the various systems should be made in order to discover any general disorder which might cause, predispose to, or aggravate the loss of blood ; and this systemic lesion must be treated secundum artem. (b) The patient must be kept absolutely at rest, both bodily and mental. The recumbent posture must be insisted on, and all causes of worry and excitement removed. Coitus must be interdicted. (c) If there be either acute or chronic pelvic congestion, the bowels should be kept freely open with saline aperients in order to deplete the abdominal veins. (d) If the patient be plethoric, the uterine haemorrhage should not be checked unless ex- cessive ; it may be a valuable safety-valve to the surcharged circulation. In some cases of valvular heart disease, also, a moderate amount of menorrhagia does good by diminishing the venous turgescence and relieving the labouring right ventricle. (e) As a general rule, it is not wise to give iron internally in cases of anaemia due to menor- rhagia and metrorrhagia, as it frequently aggra- vates the uterine losses. 2. The Treatment of the Local Cause.—If, on examining the pelvis, a definite local cause be found, this should if possible be removed. With the removal of the cause the haemorrhage will cease. (a) If there be placenta praevia, accidental haemorrhage, or vesicular mole, the uterus should be emptied without delay and the pregnancy terminated. (6) If there be a retained fragment of placenta this should be removed with the curette. AnMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 347 inverted uterus must be reduced by manipula- tion, elastic pressure, or surgical operation. If there be subinvolution, ergot and chlorate of potash should be administered, rest enjoined, and saline aperients ordered. In obstinate cases curetting is necessary. (c) If there be an ectopic gestation it should be removed without delay by surgical operation. {d) For metritis and endometritis, bromide of potash, ergot, hydrastis, chlorate of potash, mercury, and iodide of potash may be given internally. Locally, hot antiseptic douches and glycerine and ichthyol tampons are of service. In bad cases the uterus should be curetted, swabbed out with iodised phenol, and packed with iodoform gauze. If there be inflammation of the ovaries or tubes, a similar course of treat- ment is called for, except that curetting in such cases is risky and apt to light up a general peritonitis. If there be evidence of pus, opera- tion is called for, either for the evacuation of the abscess or the removal of the diseased appendages. (e) If the uterus be displaced it should be replaced, and a suitable pessary adjusted. (/) If there be a tumour of the uterus or ovary it should, if possible, be removed by operation, the extent of the operation varying with the nature, site, and size of the new growth. 3. The Arrest of the Hceniorrhcige.—(a) I have already spoken of the importance of absolute rest in bed. In bad cases the foot of the bed should be raised to diminish the blood pressure in the pelvis. (6) Prolonged hot vaginal douches are of great service in checking uterine haemorrhage. They should be given as hot as can be borne, from 115° to 120° F., and frequently repeated. They are of special service in inflammatory cases. (c) Curetting the uterus, swabbing it out with some antiseptic styptic, such as iodised phenol, and packing it with iodoform gauze is of great value, especially in cases of endo- metritis and subinvolution; or styptics may be applied to the interior of the uterus with Play- fair's probes without a preliminary curetting. (d) Packing the cervix with iodoform gauze and the vagina with cotton-wool plugs is some- times called for in emergencies, as in the flood- ings of placenta preevia and uterine cancer. It is a valuable temporary expedient, giving the patient time to rally from a state of collapse and the surgeon time to make his arrangements for a more radical operation. (e) Certain drugs may be administered in- ternally in order to check uterine haemorrhage. Of these, by far the most useful are ergot and hydrastis canadensis. Ergot, given by the mouth or hypodermically, causes powerful con- traction of the muscular fibres of the uterus and of the arterioles. It is frequently given combined with other drugs, such as hydrastis. bromide of potash, strychnine, and chlorate of potash. It is of most value in the haemorrhage of pregnancy and the puerperium, in subinvolu- tion, and endometritis, and myoma. It is use- less in cases of cancer. Hydrastis canadensis seems to act as an astringent to the congested endometrium. Cannabis indica is occasionally useful, but is rather uncertain in its action. A useful combination is the combination, in pill or tabloid form, of ergotin, hydrastinin, and cannabin. Amongst other uterine astringents, given internally, may be mentioned hamamelis, sulphuric acid, and strychnine. (/) Styptics may be applied locally on tampons of wool or Playfair's probes. The most useful of these are tannic acid, perchloride of iron, alum, iodine, chromic acid, nitric acid, and turpentine. In some cases, as in inoperable epithelioma of the cervix, the application of the actual cautery (Paquelin's cautery at a dull, reddish-black heat) is of great service. {g) Chloride of calcium has the power of increasing the coagulability of the blood, and may be given internally (in doses of 10 to 20 grains) or applied locally with this object. (h) Electricity, in the form of the constant current, may be applied to the interior of the uterus in cases of myoma, endometritis, and subinvolution. It is, however, an unsatisfactory remedy and sometimes does more harm than good. (i) When all other measures fail, it may be necessary to remove the appendages, or to perform hysterectomy in order to stop uncon- trollable uterine hasmorrhage. These measures are indicated in severe organic disease of the uterus and appendages, but in other cases should only be performed as the last resource. V. Dysmenorbh(ea Dysmenorrhoea, or painful menstruation, is perhaps the commonest condition the gynaeco- logist is called upon to treat. It must be borne in mind that it is a symptom of many diseases, but not a disease in itself. In perfectly normal menstruation there is no pain; but amongst civilised women, at any rate, the process is generally accompanied by some degree of discomfort. In most cases, however, this is quite bearable, and does not amount to more than a feeling of malaise, with some backache and a sense of fulness in the pelvis. Between such mild cases, and those where the women sufl'er the most horrible agony, there are infinite gradations. We cannot measure pain ; and in some of the milder cases, it is difficult to say if the suffering the patient complains of be really in excess of what is usual in the average healthy woman—whether, in fact, it amounts to dys- menorrhea. The personal factor must also be taken into account. The farmer's wife—a fat, phlegmatic woman, who has lived a whole-348 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS some life, and has no nonsense about her— seems to suffer little and makes no complaint; whilst the pampered invalid, thin, anjemic, and neurotic, writhes in agony. And yet the real amount of pain may be the same in both women ; but the discomfort of the one is the anguish of the other. If the pain of menstrua- tion be severe enough to interfere with the work of a poor woman, or the pleasure of a rich woman, it may be called " dysmenorrhcea." The character of the pain varies greatly. It may be only a dull backache, or an unpleasant sense of fulness in the pelvis. It may be sharp and lancinating, or of a heavy throbbing character, or griping, colicky, labour-like. It may be so severe that the patient rolls about the bed in torture. The pain is usually felt in the pelvis, just above the pubes, in the ovarian regions, and in the sacral region. In some cases it affects the loins and groins and shoots down the thighs. It may begin a few days before the flow and be relieved by its onset; or it may commence with the flow and last either the first day or two, or the whole period. Some patients com- plain of constant pelvic pain during the inter- menstrual interval, with a marked aggravation at each period. It may date from the onset of puberty and last until the first pregnancy (in some cases it persists until the menopause); or it may not appear till some time after puberty. In other cases it dates from an attack of pelvic inflammation, due to gonorrhoeal infection or sepsis after parturition. It is commoner amongst single than married women, and amongst the sterile than the fer- tile. It must not be thought, however, that dysmenorrhcea either causes or is caused by sterility : both are the result of some primary pelvic lesion, such as stenosis of the cervix, endometritis, or salpingitis. The Cause of the Pain.—Let us now briefly analyse the pain of dysmenorrhcea and consider the mechanism of its production. We may dis- tinguish three main factors—(I) congestion ; (2) spasm ; (3) neuralgia. 1. Congestion.—If the blood-pressure in an inflamed, hypersensitive, and resistant tissue be increased, pain is produced. A very slight increase of the blood-supply to a whitlow makes all the difference between comfort and misery. An inflamed tissue is very sensitive to altera- tions of tension; an attempt to stretch it causes agony, as is shown in the condition of " chordee." Now, in chronic metritis and endometritis, the walls of the uterus become thickened, hard, and inelastic. AVhen the menstrual engorge- ment takes place they cannot distend and accommodate the extra quantity of blood, and hence increased tissue tension results. This tension is interpreted by the hypersensitive uterine nerves—often themselves chronically inflamed—as pain. There is some reason to believe that the ovaries and Fallopian tubes become engorged with blood some days before the onset of menstruation. If they be in an inflamed condition, and boimd down by adhesions, their tissues cannot expand to accommodate the increased blood-supply, and tension and pain result. In such cases the pain is premenstrual because the engorgement is premenstrual. The pain of congestion is dull, heavy, bearing-down, and throbbing in character. It is felt deep in the pelvis and in the sacral region. 2. Spasm.—The uterus is a mass of non- striped muscular fibres woven around a core of mucous membrane. These fibres are in a state of rhythmical activity, alternately con- tracting and relaxing. These rhythmical contractions are very evident in the pregnant uterus: they constitute one of the most reliable signs of pregnancy; and they are still more obvious in the pains of labour. Similar but much feebler waves of contraction pass over the non-pregnant uterus. During men- struation they become more marked. Under certain morbid conditions these contractions become irregular, excessive, and painful. " Spasmodic dysmenorrhcea" is colic of the uterus. It is frequently associated with hyper- EEsthesia of the endometrium, particularly of the region of the internal os; and it is easily excited by the pressure in the cavity of the uterus of foreign bodies, such as pieces of exfoliated mucous membrane and blood clots. In some of the cases of the extra-uterine dysmenorrhcea, it is probable that the colicky pains which precede each period are due to violent contractions of the muscular coats of the distended Fallopian tubes. The pain of spasm is twisting, griping, colicky, or labour-like in character. It comes and goes rhythmically, and is generally complained of just above the pubes. 3. Neuralgia.—Both the uterus and the ovary may be the seat of neuralgia, especially in ansemic, neurotic women. In some cases it seems to be due to gout and rheumatism. There may be a hypersesthetic condition of the endometrium, but usually the uterus is otherwise normal. In some cases of ovarian neuralgia the ovaries may be prolapsed, en- larged, and tender; but they are rarely grossly diseased. The pain of neuralgia is burning, shooting, and lancinating, and is characterised by its wide distribution. It is felt not only in the pelvis and back, but also in the breasts, groins, and thighs. The Varieties of Dysmenorrhcea.—Much confusion has arisen from the perplexing system of classification adopted in the text-books. Thus the following are described as distinct349 MENSTEUATION AND ITS DISOKDERS varieties of dysmenorrhoea — the congestive, obstructive, spasmodic, neuralgic, membranous, gouty, rheumatic, tubal, and ovarian forms. But we often find associated in the same patient the pain of spasm, the pain of congestion, and the pain of neuralgia. The tubal form may be both spasmodic and congestive, and the ovarian neuralgic and congestive. The absurdity of such a cross classification is obvious. Whilst we recognise as the immediate causes of the pain the three factors of spasm, con- gestion, and neuralgia, it is convenient to classify cases of dysmenorrhoea as follows :— 1. Those due to local (pelvic) causes—(a) uterine; (6) extra-uterine. 2. Those due to general systemic causes. Uterine Causes.—(1) Arrested Development of the Whole Uterus.—In some cases the uterus is small and imperfectly developed. In extreme cases it remains in the infantile condition. Puberty is delayed; and when the periods do appear they are irregular, occurring at long intervals, short in duration, scanty, and very painful. The pain seems to be due to the inability of the uterus to expand and accom- modate the increased blood-supply. (2) Stenosis of the Cervix.—Here the body of the uterus is normally developed, but the cervix remains small and tapering, with a pin-hole os. A condition of stenosis of the cervix may be acquired years after puberty as a result of cicatricial contraction after injudicious operations on the cervix or the application of caustics. The narrow lumen offers a real obstruction to the menstrual flow, particularly if the latter contains clots or pieces of exfoliated mucous membrane. Violent spas- modic contractions of the body of the uterus are then set up in order to overcome the obstruction. There is frequently superadded more or less endometritis. Hence in these cases the dysmenorrhoea is usually both spas- modic and congestive. (3) Metritis and Endometritis. — These are very common causes of dysmenorrhoea, the pain being due to congestion causing painful tension in the rigid diseased tissues of the uterus. In many cases of endometritis the mucosa exfoliates in distinct membranous flakes. The menstrual discharge is frequently clotted. These clots and fragments of membrane act as foreign bodies and excite uterine spasms. The so-called membranous dysmenorrhoea is due to a peculiar form of endometritis in which the whole mucosa exfoliates en masse, and is passed as a complete cast of the endometrium. This cast resembles a small decidua. It is a triangular sac, with a smooth interior and a rough exterior. Examined microscopically, it is seen to consist of the abnormally-thickened endometrium with gland follicles, connective tissue, stroma, and blood-vessels. Some auth- orities look upon it as a very early abortion with a blighted ovum. But this is probably an erroneous view, as, though almost peculiar to married women, it has been met with in chaste single women. Moreover, it contains no trace of chorionic villi. The membrane may be passed every month, or at intervals of two, three, or four months—the intervening periods being normal. The membrane is ex- pelled on the second or third day of the period, its expulsion being preceded by violent uterine spasms, resembling the pains of labour. After the membrane is discharged the pains cease and the period proceeds normally. (4) Tumours of the Uterus. — Myomata (especially the interstitial, submucous, and polypoid) may cause painful menstruation, both by exciting colicky contractions of the uterus and by giving rise to extreme congestion of the organ. The marked menstrual turgescence causes the myomata to swell at each period, and hence pressure symptoms are always worse at these times. Extra-uterine Causes.—(1) Ovaria7i Disease. —Any inflammation or degenerative condition of the ovaries may cause dysmenorrhoea. There may be acute or chronic oophoritis, cystic degeneration, or sclerosis. There may be merely a big, tender, prolapsed ovary, or the ovaries may be bound down by chronic adhesions. As a rule, big ovarian cysts do not cause dys- menorrhoea unless there be pelvic adhesions. (2) Tubal Disease.—The Fallopian tubes may be in a state of acute or chronic salpingitis, hydrosalpinx, pyosalpinx, or haematosalpinx. They may be bound down by dense adhesions. (3) Pelvic Peritonitis and Cellulitis.—The uterus, ovaries, and tubes may all be bound down and matted together by dense peritonitic adhesions, or from chronic cellulitis the uterus may be dragged to one or other side of the pelvis; or, if there be utero-sacral cellulitis, drawn backwards and acutely anteflexed (patho- logical anteflexion). In most cases of inflammation in the append- ages we find a compound lesion, viz., oophoritis, salpingitis, and pelvic peritonitis co-existing. These extra-uterine causes of dysmenorrhoea usually give rise to marked premenstrual pain. This pain is due partly to premenstrual con- gestion of the inflamed adherent organs and partly to colicky contractions of the distended Fallopian tubes. Hence the patient's sufferings are acute during the week preceding the period, and rule, greatly relieved by the onset of the flow. In many cases, however, there is also more or less endometritis, and from this cause the pain may last throughout the whole period. General Systemic Causes.—There are some cases of dysmenorrhoea without any tangible sign of pelvic disease. Here we look for the cause in the disordered state of the patient's blood or in an abnormal condition of her350 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS nervous system. Thus in anaemia, gout, rheumatism, on the one hand, and hysteria and neurasthenia on the other, there is not in- frequently painful menstruation of a neuralgic type. Treatment.—There are three main lines of treatment to be followed:—1. Improve the general health. 2. Relieve pain. 3. Treat any pelvic lesion. 1. The Care of the General Health. — The general hygienic surroundings of the patient must be inquired into and, if defective, remedied. Any unhealthy occupation must be given up and the patient made to live in as pure an atmosphere as possible. A change of air, as to the seaside or the country, is often advisable. The diet should be simple, easily digested, and non-stimulating. Alcohol, spices, strong tea, and coffee should be avoided. The patient should be amply clad, wear warm woollen under- garments and avoid tight-lacing. The bowels must be attended to, and if there be any tendency to constipation it must be remedied by laxative food, saline aperients, cascara, or compound liquorice powder. During the period she should rest either in bed or on the sofa. During the intermenstrual interval—unless there be serious pelvic disease—she should be encouraged to take plenty of active exercise in the fresh air. Walking, riding, cycling, rowing, are all good in moderation. But there must be no over-fatigue, no violent strain, no " scorch- ing" or cycling up stiff hills. The modern girl's taste for athletics is to be encouraged, as, if not carried to excess, it tends to prevent anfemia, constipation, dyspepsia, and hysteria, developing a healthy mind in a healthy body. Anything that tends to promote vicious habits of thought and morbid excitement must be guarded against. She should avoid the giddy whirl of fashionable society, with its artificial life, its late hours, its unwholesome dinners and suppers, its crowded " at homes," concerts, and balls. By such simple remedies as fresh air, rational clothing, wholesome food, judicious exercise, attention to the bowels, and healthy moral influences, many a case of neuralgic dysmenorrhoea may be cured. In other cases, however, there are consti- tutional disorders, which call for active medicinal treatment. If she be antemic, iron and arsenic must be given ; if gouty, alkalies, iodide of potash and colchicum; if rheumatic, guaiacum, sulphur, and salicylate of soda. If she be hysterical, sedatives, such as bromide of potash, valerian, castoreum, and asafoetida may be needed. If neurasthenic, nervine tonics such as strychnine, phosphorus, quinine, and damiana are indicated, whilst in severe cases the "Weir-Mitchell treatment" is of great value. 2. The Relief of the Fain.—{\) Rest.—In every case of severe dysmenorrhoea the patient should, if possible, spend the whole of the period in bed. The recumbent posture lessens the pressure in the pelvic blood-vessels and mechanically relieves the pelvic congestion. The foot of the bed should be raised in order to further elevate the pelvis and so promote the flow of blood out of it. (2) Heat. — Heat applied in various ways often gives wonderful relief. In some cases a hot mustard poultice applied to the abdomen acts like a charm. Dry heat may be applied by means of Leiter's metallic coils, or the ordinary domestic india-rubber hot-water bottles or salt bags. A hot bath lessens the blood- pressure in the pelvis by dilating the capillaries of the skin. Hot vaginal douches are of great service, given as hot as the patient can bear (105°-115° F.), both during the period and the intermenstrual intervals—especially in those cases of dysmenorrhoea due to inflammation of the uterus or the appendages. Copious hot drinks—not alcoholic—such as hot milk, hot ginger and water, hot peppermint and water, etc., are of service in promoting cutaneous dilatation and so lessening pelvic congestion. (3) Anodyne Drugs.—What medicines may we give to directly relieve the patient's suffer- ings ? There are two remedies that must not be given, alcohol and opium; and this in spite of the fact that we know of nothing that will relieve the pain so promptly or so effectually. A stiff glass of hot gin and water, given at the commencement of the period seldom fails to bring ease and comfort and tide the patient over the agony of onset. Could we only be sure that the single tumbler of toddy once a month would never be exceeded, the remedy would be an excellent one. But a sad experi- ence teaches otherwise, for there can be no doubt that much of the secret drinking that prevails amongst women is the result of the pernicious practice of plying them with alcohol during their monthly periods. So also with opiates : a hypodermic injection of 1^ to I grain of morphia will almost certainly give immediate relief to the patient's suffering. But the danger of teaching her the seductive morphia habit is so great that only in ex- ceptional cases are we justified in administering it. Dysmenorrhoea is a lesser evil than morphia mania. In neuralgic cases, such coal-tar deriva- tives as antipyrin, phenacetine, exalgine, acet- anilid, ammonol, frequently give relief. It is advisable to give them with a cardiac stimulant such as sal volatile or caffein, to prevent the depressing influence these drugs sometimes exert on the heart. In spasmodic pains due to uterine colic, belladonna and cannabis indica are very efficacious. They must be given in large doses and pushed until they begin to exert their full physiological eff'ects. The nitrites (such as nitrite of amyl and nitro-glycerine) occasionally are of service inMENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 351 relieving uterine spasm and lessening pelvic en- gorgement by dilating the superficial arterioles. Pulsatilla and caulophyllum frequently give great relief in spasmodic dysmenorrha3a, espe- cially where the flow is scanty. Viburnum opulus and viburnum prunifolium are most valuable anti spasmodics and uterine sedatives. They are of most service in uterine colic and of least value in the neuralgic cases. They are nauseous drugs and are best given in capsules. In most cases of pelvic congestion bromide of potash, in 30-grain doses (combined with bella- donna if there be uterine spasm, or with anti- pyrin if there be neuralgic pain) is of great service. 3. The Treatment of the Pelvic Lesion.— Obviously, if dysmenorrhcsa be due to disease of the pelvic viscera, the most certain method of relieving the pain is to remove the causative lesion. This, however, is not always advisable or justifiable, as it may involve an operation which not only risks the patient's life, but irre- trievably mutilates her and deprives her of all possibility of having children. The cure may, in fact, be worse than the disease. An opera- tion is only to be recommended in cases where milder measures have been tried and failed, and where the patient's sufferings are intolerable. (1) In the Infantile Uterus.—If this condition exists in a marked degree, it is incurable, and nothing short of removal of the uterine append- ages or, what is preferable, vaginal hysterectomy, will relieve the patient's sufferings. In the milder degree, tonics, especially iron, should be given, and the patient encouraged to marry. Many of these cases are cured by marriage, which arouses the uterus into increased nutri- tive activity and improves its circulation. As the uterus develops, the periods become more regular, less scanty and less painful. Should conception occur, the cure becomes complete. It must, however, be remembered that many of these cases are sterile. Electricity and dilating the cervix by the insertion of an intra-uterine stem pessary are sometimes advised in these cases, but they are rarely of much use and may do harm. (2) Stenosis of the Cervix.—Here dilating the cervix is of great value and nearly always effects a cure. The best results are obtained in the purely spasmodic cases, particularly where spasm is excited by the passage of a bougie through the internal os. Dilatation is contraindicated if the uterus be fixed by peri- uterine adhesions, and is a highly dangerous proceeding if there be inflammatory disease of the uterine appendages. The best time for its performance is midway between two periods. It should be done under an anaesthetic and with scrupulous aseptic precautions. The canal is best dilated with graduated metal dilators ; it should be done slowly and without using undue force, otherwise the uterus may be per- forated or ruptured. After full dilatation, the cavity of the uterus should be packed with iodoform gauze. This should be removed at the end of forty-eight hours, and thereafter the vagina irrigated night and morning with some mild antiseptic. To prevent recontraction it is sometimes advisable to insert a glass intra- uterine stem pessary which the patient should wear for a couple of months. Frequently a single dilatation effects an immediate and permanent cure. In some cases the relief is only temporary ; after a few months of ease, the old pain begins to return. In such cases it is advisable to repeat the dilatation. Sometimes the operation does no good whatso- ever. In the case of young married sterile women the stenosis of the cervix causes not only dysmenorrhcea, but also sterility. Here the dilatation often cures the sterility as well as the pain at the periods. Moreover, the occur- rence of pregnancy is much to be desired, as it effectually and permanently cures the stenosis. (3) Metritis and Endometritis.—Before re- sorting to operative measures, an endeavour should be made to remove the chronic inflamma- tion by " antiphlogistic " remedies. The patient must rest in bed, have frequent hot vaginal douches, and every night have inserted a glycerine and ichthyol vaginal tampon. She must keep her bowels open with saline aperients. Medicinally, a mixture containing chlorate of potash should be given, combined with ergot if there be menorrhagia, and with iron if there be anaemia and debility. If there be any suspicion of syphilitic or gonorrhojal infection, mercury and iodide of potash will work wonders. If, in spite of these measures, the disease continues—particularly if it be endometritis— the operation of curetting is called for. After thoroughly scraping away the endometrium, the uterus should be swabbed out with iodised phenol and packed with iodoform gauze for forty-eight hours. After removing this gauze, the vagina is to be irrigated with some mild antiseptic and the patient kept in bed till after the next period. (4) Tumours of the Uterus.—If there be a polypus or submucous myoma, these should be removed by operation. If there be an interstitial myoma, the patient should be kept at rest; given hot douches; and internally, ergot, hydrastis, and bromide ad- ministered. Should this line of treatment fail, and the patient be both in pain and flooding severely, the tumour should be removed either by enucleation or by total extirpation of the uterus. (5) Ovarian Disease, (6) Tubal Disease, and (7) Chronic Pelvic Peritonitis.—In the case of ovarian tumours, there should be no delay in removing them by operation. In the case of acute and chronic pelvic peritonitis, oophoritis, and salpingitis, antiphlogistic treatment should be carried out; mercury and iodide of potash.MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS 352 bromide of potash, or salix nigra given ; hot vaginal douches and ichthyol-glycerine tampons administered; and the patient liept at rest. If the appendages be bound down by adhesions and the ovaries cystic, the abdomen should be opened, the adhesions separated, and the cystic part of the ovary resected. If the ovaries and tubes be grossly diseased it may be necessary to completely extirpate them. This should only be done as the dernier ressort; it must never be undertaken lightly, nor without frankly explain- ing to the patient the immediate and remote results. It is not equally efficacious in all cases of dysmenorrhoea. As a general rule, the less there is the matter with the appendages, the less likely is their removal likely to cure the dysmenorrhoea. For instance, the complete removal of both ovaries and tubes rarely fails to relieve the suffering due to pyosalpinx or abscess of the ovaries. But it is often of little or no use in those cases which are doubtfully labelled "chronic oophoritis." It certainly in most of such cases arrests the menstrual flow; but it often fails to relieve and may even aggra- vate the chronic pelvic pain, the groinache, the backache, and the nervous depression from which she suffers. To remove healthy ovaries and tubes to cure a dysmenorrhoea for which there is no local cause, is as barbarous as the wholesale extracting of healthy teeth to remedy a facial neuralgia. It is absolutely unjustifiable unless the patient's sufferings be such as to render life unendurable and all milder measures have failed. In such cases, moreover, the operation of vaginal hysterectomy is safer, more certain of relieving the patient, and less likely to be followed by untoward after-results than the removal of the ovaries. Intermenstrual Pain or Mittelschmerz." — This rare condition was first described by Priestley. It is characterised by marked pelvic pain, occurring not at or just before the period, but midway between two periods. It is regular in its onset—always fourteen days before the next period. The pain is violent and occurs in paroxysms, and lasts for three or four days. It is sometimes accompanied by a watery discharge from the uterus. In a few instances the dis- charge is hsemorrhagic, but scanty, so that there is an abortive period in the middle of each interval. On examination, the pelvic organs may be found quite normal, but usually distinct signs of chronic inflammation are found in the tubes or ovaries. In a considerable number of cases the condition of hydrosalj^inx has been found associated with " Mittelschmerz," and by most authorities is believed to be the cause. The treatment is that of dysmenorrhoea. If there be evidence of diseased tubes or ovaries these organs must be treated secundum artem. In intractable cases, where there is severe suffering, the uterine appendages may have to be extirpated. Retention of the Menses Retention of the menses is a rare condition— as rare, indeed, as suppression of the menses (amenorrhoea) is common. In suppression there is an arrest of secretion; in retention, the menstrual fluid is poured out, but from occlu- sion, or "atresia" of part of the genital canal, is dammed up above the point of obstruction and collects within the body. If the duct of a secreting gland be occluded, the secretion collects in the cavity of the gland, and distends it into a retention cyst. Thus if the ureter be blocked by a calculus, the renal secretion distends the kidney into a cystic tumoLir—a hydronephrosis. Should this col- lection become infected with pyogenic micro- organisms suppuration occurs, and the kidney becomes a bag of pus—a pyonephrosis. By precisely similar processes, if the cervix be occluded and the outflow from the uterus prevented, the organ becomes converted into a huge retention cyst. If the contents be merely menstrual blood, the condition is that of hsema- tometra. If micro-organisms gain access to the retained secretion decomposition occurs, the fluid becomes purulent and a pyometra is produced. Atresia of the genital canal may be either acquired or congenital, and it may occur (a) at the hymen, (b) in the vagina, (c) in the cervix. Acquired atresia usually occurs in the cervix, and is the result of some preceding operation or inflammatory lesion, causing destruction of tissue and cicatricial contraction. Thus a patient has an epithelioma of the cervix re- moved by means of Paquelin's cautery. This causes extensive sloughing and suppuration, and, finally, in place of the cervical canal there is left a dense mass of scar tissue. This com- pletely seals up the mouth of the womb, which then becomes distended with menstrual blood (hsematometra). The causes of acquired atresia of the cervix are:— (a) Operations on the cervix, such as ampu- tation. {b) Endocervicitis. (c) The application of caustics to the cervix. (d) Sloughing after parturition. The causes of acquired atresia of the vagina are:— (a) Injuries causing sloughing, severe burns, caustics. (V) Severe vaginitis. (c) Syphilitic ulceration. \d) Sloughing after parturition. Congenital atresia is caused by some arrest of the process by which the uterus. Fallopian tubes, and vagina are developed. It will be remembered that these organs are formed from the two Mlillerian ducts. These ducts, in early foetal life, are two solid parallel columns of cells.MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDEES 353 They next become hollowed out into two parallel tubes. Later still these tubes fuse in their posterior and middle thirds to form a single tube (the vagina and uterus), whilst the anterior thirds remain separate and form the Fallopian tubes. The ostium vaginae (and hymeneal orifice) is formed by an invagination from the skin opening into the lower end of the fused MUllerian ducts. Should there be any arrest in the process of hollowing out the solid columns of cells into the ducts a horizontal septum is formed, completely closing the vaginal or uterine canal, and causing atresia. As soon as the age of puberty arrives, the menstrual blood begins to collect above the point of obstruction and the utero-vaginal canal becomes a retention cyst. On the other hand, should there be any interference with the process of fusion of the ducts of Miiller, a degree of doubling of the uterus (or vagina) is produced. The two con- ditions, viz., retention of the menses and doubling of the uterus, frequently coexist. In order to illustrate the sequence of events let us suppose that in the lower third of the vagina there is a congenital atresia. At puberty, and at each period after, the uterus pours out some three or four ounces of blood. This collects in the vagina above the atresia and distends it into a large cystic swelling, which fills the pelvis and rises up into the abdomen as an oval tumour. The uterus is lifted up by this mass, and at first is not dis- tended, as its walls are much thicker and more resistant than those of the lax, elastic vagina. Later, as the pressure increases, the uterus also becomes distended, and may form a mass as big as the womb six months pregnant. Still later the fluid distends the Fallopian tubes, until they become huge sausage-shaped masses on either side of the fundus. Lastly, the retained menstrual secretion may burst the Fallopian tubes, pour into the peritoneal cavity, and give rise, if aseptic, to an intraperitoneal heemato- cele; if septic, to an acute peritonitis. When the retention cyst is formed by the vagina it is called a " hfematocolpos " if the fluid be blood, and a "pyocolpos" if it be purulent. Similarly, when formed by the uterus it is termed a hsematometra or pyometra. When the Fallopian tubes are distended with blood the condition is termed hsematosalpinx; when with pus, pyosalpinx. In many cases there is more or less doubling of the genital canal. The uterus may be bi- cornuous, septate, or double. The vagina also may be divided by a mesial septum into two distinct tubes. Occasionally in these cases the atresia affects one side only, there being men- strual retention on that side, whilst on the other the menses are discharged normally. The retained blood is characteristic in appear- ance. It is a thick, dark chocolate-brown, treacly fluid, very viscid from the presence of VOL. VI mucus. Under the microscope it is seen to consist of broken-down blood corpuscles, altered blood pigment, and epithelial cells. Symptoms and Signs of Congenital Atresia tvith Retention.—Until the age of puberty there are no symptoms. Then it is noticed that though the girl each month has pelvic pains there is no external flow of blood. With each monthly epoch the pain increases and becomes colicky in character. On examination there is found rising out of the pelvis, and filling part of the lower abdomen, a tense oval swelling, elastic or fluctuating, and feeling not unlike the preg- nant uterus. It contracts intermittently, and on auscultation a bruit may be heard over the sides of the mass. If the Fallopian tubes be aff"ected they may be felt as two rounded or sausage-shaped masses on either side of the larger central tumour. The vulva may be normal, or through it the bulging imperforate hymen may be found. If the atresia be in the vagina the bladder and rectum may be felt in contact below, whilst on rectal examination the lower pole of the distended vagina or uterus may be felt. If the fluid be purulent, then, in addition, there will be septic symptoms, rigors, high temperature, quick pulse, emaciation, and local tenderness. In those cases of double uterus, where one-half is patent and the other half occluded and distended with blood, the symptoms are somewhat different. Menstrua- tion is present, but at each month there is severe colicky pain on the occluded side. On examina- tion, to one side of the uterus (and sometimes also of the vagina) a lateral cystic swelling may be found. Treatment.—Whenever possible an attempt should be made to reach the collection per vaginam, and by this route to evacuate the retained secretion. After careful disinfection of the vulva and vaginal cul-de-sac, a horizontal incision should be made in the roof of the cul- de-sac, or through the unperforate hymen, and deepened by dissecting up between the bladder and rectum if they be in contact. When the wall of the retention cyst (vagina or uterus) is reached it should be opened transversely and, if possible, drawn down and sutured to the mucous membrane of the cul-de-sac. The viscid retained secretion should be washed away by prolonged irrigation with some mild antiseptic (such as boracic solution) and the cavity lightly packed with iodoform gauze. If the Fallopian tubes be not distended nothing further is required; but should they be felt as big, sausage-shaped masses on either side of the uterus, the abdomen should be opened, and the tubes emptied of their con- tents or removed altogether. In a certain number of cases the surgeon will fail to reach the retention cyst from below. Here he must open the abdomen and extirpate the distended organs. In cases where there is doubling of the vagina, or a septate condition of354 MENSTRUATION AND ITS DISORDERS the uterus, the surgeon should divide the septum and throw the two cavities into one. In all cases where an artificial opening is made, either in the vagina or cervix, there is a tendency for it to reclose by slow cicatricial contraction. This tendency must be counteracted by the wearing for months or years of a flanged vul- canite or rubber tube. The great danger of all operations for retained menses is septic infection, which can only be prevented by the most scrupulous antiseptic precautions. Prognosis.—The gravity of the case depends on the situation of the atresia, and the extent to which the upper portions of the genital canal have become involved. Thus atresia of the cervix is more serious than hymeneal atresia, and hfematosalpinx and htematometra are graver lesions than hsematocolpos. Obviously, too, if suppurative changes have occurred the prognosis is still more grave. It follows, therefore, that there should be no delay in operating, and every endeavour must be made by rigid aseptic pre- cautions to prevent infection. Menstruum. — A solvent; the fluid which is used in percolation as the solvent which, during its descent through the drug, extracts the soluble constituents ; a fluid excipient. Mensuration.—The process of taking measurements in order to determine deformities, the rate of growth of tumours, etc. See Ab- domen, Clinical Investigation of {Mensura- tion) ; Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; etc. Mentagfra. See Sycosis. Mentag^rophyton. — The fungus {microsporon mentayrophytes) which is the sup- posed cause of sycosis. Mental Deficiency. Definition ...... 354 Classification 354 Congenital ...... 354 Microcephalic . . . . .354 Porencephalic ..... 355 Hydrocephalic . . . . .355 Mongoloid . . . . .355 Cretinoid ..... 355 Primarily/ neurotic . . . .356 Developmental— Amaurotic ..... 356 Eclamp sic . . . . . '357 Epileptic...... 357 Syphilitic (^inherited) — {^'■Juvenile General Paralysis") . ■ . 357 Accidental (Acquired) .... 357 Tra^imatic ..... 357 Post-febrile 357 Sclerotic ...... 358 Anatomo-Pathology - - Congenital Cases .... 358 Anatomo-Pathology (contd.)— Development Cases .... 359 Accidental (or Acquired) Groiip . . 359 Microscopic Changes . . .359 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . 360 Treatment and Training . . .361 See also Cretinism ; Deafmutism ; Idiocy ; Imbecility ; Insanity (Etiological Varieties); Mind, Education of ; Physiognomy. Definition.—Under this comprehensive term we propose to include the varying grades of defect of mental development, as distinguished from mental breakdown, designated (in order of their severity) feeble-mindedness, imbecility, and idiocy. The defect, though not of necessity congenital, always depends upon causes acting early in life prior to the complete evolution of the faculties, and in this way is differentiated from insanity. In many cases, indeed, there exists an innate predisposition to mental abnormality, due to inherited nervous instability, though actual defect may not show itself till some critical epoch of development (e.g. the period of dentition or of puberty). Where predisposition exists, moreover, injury may act in an altogether disproportionate degree in producing mental defect to that which would obtain in a child of normal heredity, so that a fall which would leave unscathed the mental condition of the latter may, in the former case, lead to impaired mental development. Classification.—According to the period at which mental deficiency manifests itself we may classify all cases into three main groups, viz. :— I. Congenital. II. Developmental. III. Accidental (or Acquired). I. Congenital cases may be subdivided into several distinct types, each with characteristic physical features, mental peculiarities, and (as we shall see more fully when considering the etiology of the subject) causative factors. The leading types may be stated as follows :— (a) Microcephalic cases. (b) Porencephalic cases. (c) Hydrocephalic cases. (d) Mongoloid cases. (e) Cretinoid cases. (/) Primarily neurotic cases. (Other cases such as those connected with birth palsies or the early manifestations of syphilis (inherited) or of scrofula, might almost be called congenital, but in this article we shall consider the former as an accidental form and the latter as developmental.) (a) Microcephalic cases are, of course, dis- tinguished by smallness of head, and it has been proposed by some authors to limit the term microcephalus to heads the circumference of which does not exceed seventeen inches. The abnormality is, however, not exclusively one of size, as thus ascertained: it is rather one of355 MENTAL DEFICIENCY formation. Microcephalic heads have a charac- teristic form. The forehead, deficient in lateral development, rapidly recedes to a somewhat pointed vertex {oxycephalic), and the occipital region is flattened. Such cranial characters, together with large bright eyes and a prominent nose, may often be discerned in cases of but slight mental impairment (the so-called feeble- minded), even when circumferential measure- ments are not much below the normal, and may indeed furnish a key to the mental inferi- ority manifested. Extreme cases, in which the greatest circumference did not exceed thirteen or fourteen inches, have been from time to time re- corded under such titles as the "bird-man," the "ape-man," the "rabbit-man," etc.; and the so- called " Aztecs " formerly exhibited in Barnum's show, whose cranial circumference was under fifteen inches, belonged to this type. With a capacity of less than 400 grammes, which obtains in such instances as the above, the manifesta- tions of mind must necessarily be of the simplest. But as the capacity increases it is surprising how human mental characteristics assert them- selves, and in a case formerly imder the daily observation of the present writer, in which the weight of the encephalon was no more than 352"5 grammes (the circumference of head being little over fifteen inches), there was some power of speech and of reasoning out ideas. In- deed, it may be said that with this type the gradations of intelligence vary very much with the size of the brain. Certain atrophic conditions of portions of the brain may be mentioned in connection with this type, such as defects of the corpus callosum and other commissural structures which have been recorded by Langdon-Down, Bruce, and others. A remarkable case of cerebellar atrophy in an imbecile girl of fifteen, who presented no ataxic symptoms during life, was observed by the present writer. (b) Porencephalic cases, usually associated with paralytic idiocy, have been described by Heschl, Micrzejewski, Kundrat, Wigles- worth, Shuttleworth, and others. True poren- cephalus may correctly be described as a congenital condition, inasmuch as it usually dates from the fifth to the seventh month of intra-uterine life. (There is also an acquired or false porencephalus, resulting from de- structive lesion after birth.) However caused, the brain is deformed by a communication between the surface of the hemisphere and the lateral ventricles. In some cases, as in one met with by the writer, asymmetry of the skull may result with a flattening of the corresponding frontal region ; and in all, hemiplegic symptoms result. (c) Hydrocephalic cases may be of antenatal origin, but more frequently hydrocephalus comes on after birth, either in early infancy or at the period of dentition. Cranial deformity varies much in extent according to the amount of effusion, though cases are recorded—of the congenital type especially — in which the volume of the brain has been diminished by the pressure of fluid without much expansion of the bones of the skull. As a general rule, however, the obovate appearance of the head viewed from above, its globular aspect when looked at from in front, with bulging at the temples, and eyeballs with depressed axes, are characteristic of this type. The enlargement of the skull sometimes takes place in the antero- posterior direction, constituting the scapho- cephalic form described by Bourneville. The degree of mental impairment varies remarkedly in hydrocephalic cases, not always in direct ratio to the excessive size of head, which may vary from 22 or 23 inches to 37 in circumference, an extreme case being described by Seguin of the latter dimensions, in which there was a fair amount of mental activity. {d) Mongoloid cases have very definite physical characteristics, accompanied with mental traits which are also typical. The head is brachy- cephalic, with tendency to parallelism of anterior and posterior planes—that is to say, there is defective occipital development, with an absence of protuberance. The eyes are often obliquely set, with the palpebral fissures sloping upwards to the external angle. At the inner angle there are frequently found traces of an epicanthic fold prolonged from the upper eyelid. The nose is usually short and spread; the mouth open, disclosing a thick-tipped tongue, the surface of which is marked (in older children at any rate) with transverse furrows. The palate is often high and narrow. The hair is straight, wiry, and with no tendency to curl. The bones of the limbs are usually small, and the ligaments lax; the fingers thick and short, the little finger especially so, with incurvation towards the ring finger. The skin is, as a rule, coarse, sometimes furfuraceous, and often the lips are fissured. Walking and talking are always late, and the voice is gruff and guttural. Mimicry is the prominent mental characteristic, and there is often an appreciation of rhythm, both in movement and in music. Tubercular disease is the usual termination of this type of cases. (e) Cretinoid cases {sporadic cretins) are perhaps, as a rule, hardly in the strict sense of the word congenital, for the symptoms de- noting cretinism do not come into prominence until after the first few months of infancy. Still, the arrest of development of the thyroid gland, upon which cretinism is known to depend, points to an antenatal originating cause, so as to justify this classification. The full develop- ment of the characteristic features of the sporadic cretinism is, however, gradual, and in the early stages there is a certain resem- blance to the mongoloid type above described.MENTAL DEFICIENCY 356 Like those cases, sporadic cases are brachy- cephalic; but the cretin's head is flatter on the top, and expanded more squarely than that of the mongol, and the hair is scanty as well as wiry. The nose of the former is broad, with extended nostrils, and the bridge being flattened, the space between the eyes seems large. There is no obliquity of the palpebral slits as in the mongol, but the lids are often suffuse and pendulous. The lips are thick and coarse, and the tongue protrudes, appearing too large for the mouth, though not marked by furrows like that of the mongol. The teeth are late in erupting, and decay early; the palate is usually expanded. There is often a flushed patch on the cheeks, and the skin generally is harsh, sometimes even icthyotic. The thyroid gland is not to be felt, but in the posterior triangles of the neck little fatty tumours may often be made out. The skin is baggy, apt to fall into folds about the neck, as if redundant; the abdomen protuberant, and not infrequently an umbilical hernia exists. The long bones are thickened and often bowed, and in some cases there is spinal curvature. The hands are spade-shaped, short and broad ; and these and the clumsy-looking feet are slow and inapt in their proper movements. With these physical characteristics a common mental condition obtains, which may be summed up as one of slow reaction. Nerve currents take an appreciable time to filter through the myxoe- dematous tissues, with the result that both apprehension of ideas and response are retarded, and all action is of a sluggish character. The dawn of a smile in a cretinous child is a time- phenomenon interesting to study. Puberty rarely asserts itself in untreated cases; indeed, the sjDoradic cretin remains an infant for life, of diminutive size and undeveloped intelligence. (/) Under the primarily neurotic type we include children born with unstable nervous systems, the result of a neurotic inheritance. The inherited neurosis may show itself in a variety of ways ; nervous irritability, sleepless- ness, night or day terrors, convulsions, being some of its morbid manifestations, whilst want of power of attention and of contuiuity of thought, sometimes moral obliquity, are amongst the mental abnormalities to which it gives rise. There is a certain sharpness of apprehension and spasmodic quickness of re- sponse with such children differentiating them from the types previously described, and the physical features are not so marked. A high and narrow, sometimes deformed, palate is found in the majority of these cases; but " nerve signs " are the essential characteristics of the type, such as frontal corrugation, finger twitches, and a peculiar attitude of the hands when extended, well described by Warner as consisting of a drooping wrist, a contracted palm, arched on the top and hollow on the under surface, with thumb bent back, and each finger bent back at knuckle-bone.^ We have now made a general survey of the most common typical forms of congenital mental defect. It must not, however, be understood that every such case can be classified under one or other of these types; indeed, probably the majority of cases are of a mixed character, though sometimes the constituent factors may be discerned. Ireland has invented the term genetous idiocy" to "comprehend cases whose pathology cannot be properly diagnosed until after death," and instances cases of inflammation of the brain occurring before birth, etc. For the miscellaneous cases above referred to the term may be convenient to distinguish those dating from birth from the forms of mental deficiency subsequently arising; otherwise it would seem that the types we have described are better classified under the better understood term congenital. II. Developmental cases might perhaps be described as a variety of the congenital in which the signs of mental deficiency are late in showing themselves. The tendency is indeed born with the child, and will usually assert itself to a large extent independently of circumstances, when the due period of development has arrived. This may vary considerably with diff'erent types; in some it occurs within a few weeks of birth, in others at the period of first or second dentition, in others, again, at the trying epoch of puberty. The several types may be arranged, as far as possible, in the order of manifestation of the mental defect, as follows :— {a) Amaurotic. ib) Eclampsic. (c) Epileptic. (d) Syphilitic (inherited)—^'juvenile general paralysis." (a) Amaurotic is a convenient term to desig- nate that variety of mental defect (idiocy) which has been described by Sachs and other American writers, and by Kingdon and Risien Russell in this country, under the title of " Infantile cerebral degeneration, with sym- metrical changes at the macula." Commen- cing in the early months of infant life by mus- cular enfeeblement associated with distinctive ophthalmoscopic appearances, it progresses to almost complete paralysis, and terminates in the death of the patient about the end of the second year. The child (generally of Jewish parentage) is born at the full term of gestation, and at birth does not appear to differ from an ordinary healthy child. Some weakness of back and neck, and a suspicion of imperfect sight, attract attention at the age of three months; and soon the child, previously lively, becomes apathetic, drops objects placed in its hands, and finally sees nothing, and takes little interest in its surroundings — sounds alone arousing it. 1 Warner, Nervous System of the Child, p. 55.MENTAL DEFICIENCY 357 Muscular atrophy and general emaciation follow till death closes the scene. (6) Eclampsic cases form a large proportion of all cases of mental defect. About one-third of the idiotic and imbecile patients of the Royal Albert Asylum were said to have suffered from convulsions during teething; but the question, of course, arises how far these were the efficient cause of the mental condition. It is probable that in the majority the eclampsia was but one of the signs, though the most impressive one of the innate nervous instability inherited from parents, who, however, are usually slow to recognise an innate inherited tendency to defect. Be this as it may, there is no doubt that the frequent recurrence of fits in early life interferes with normal mental development, and even when the child's general health improves and the fits disappear—as is the case in the eclampsic as distinguished from the epileptic type—mental enfeeblement, ranging from mere feeble-minded- ness to idiocy, is apt to supervene. (c) Epileptic cases include those in which, in contradistinction to the eclampsic cases just described, there is no cessation of convulsive attacks after the period of dentition, or in which epilepsy may have come on after this period, but at so early an age as to interfere with the normal evolution of the child's faculties. Epi- lepsy at a later age is apt to produce mental deterioration, but in this case epileptic dementia (rather than amentia) is the more appropriate classification. From the practical point of view, cases of epilepsy occurring during the educational period may have to be considered together, and in an investigation of 350 cases (conducted by the writer for the London School Board) only about 17 per cent were found fit for the ordinary school curriculum, 27"5 requiring extra care in schools for special instruction, whilst 40 per cent were only fit for epileptic institutions, and 15'5 per cent were idiots and imbeciles. As a rule, the earlier the manifestation of the epi- lepsy the more serious the mental condition, such cases being for the most part due to hereditary neurosis. {d) Syphilitic cases figure comparatively rarely amongst idiots and imbeciles, forming no more than 1"17 per cent of the 2380 cases investigated for etiological purposes by Beach and Shuttle- worth, as judged by observed stigmata of in- herited syphilis. It is probable, however, that it really forms a more considerable factor, espe- cially in the minor forms of mental defect. In well-marked cases the ashy complexion, with radiating scars around mouth, and the exist- ence, after second dentition, of notched Hutchin- sonian "teeth," or of teeth of the peggy "cork- screw " type, are pathognomonic, especially when these evidences co-exist with traces of inter- stitial keratitis and a syphilitic parental history. Of late years Clouston and others have drawn attention to a class of degenerating cases, under the designation of juvenile general paralysis, which, according to the experience of the present writer, seem to be essentially of this type, and which were long ago described by Mendel, Judson Bury, and others as cases of syphilitic dementia occurring in children. As a rule, the symptoms of mental deficiency do not manifest themselves till the onset of puberty, up to which the intelligence has been up to the average: progressive deterioration then sets in, the knowledge previously acquired being gradually lost, dementia and paresis finally leading to a fatal termination. III. Accidental (or Acquired) cases include those cases of mental deficiency which cannot be traced to causes in operation prior to birth, but are reasonably attributed to accident, dis- ease, mental shock, or it may be merely mal- nutrition, during the period of childhood. They may be divided into the following groups:— (a) Traumatic. (h) Post-febrile (or inflammatory), (c) Sclerotic. (a) Traumatic cases comprise those in which mental defect has resulted from injury or vio- lence of such a character as to interfere with the normal cerebral development. The earliest to be named is the interesting class of birth palsies (cerebral diplegia) due to intracranial injury at the time of birth. Whilst instru- mental delivery has been blamed by certain writers (Winkler, BoUaan, and others) for this result, it is probable that protracted pressure in an unassisted, unduly-prolonged labour is a much more potent factor in the causation of meningeal haemorrhage and mental defect; in fact, in the etiological statistics gathered by Dr. Beach and the present writer, protracted labour figures more than four times as often as forceps delivery as a probable cause of mental defect. Meningeal hfemorrhages thus caused specially affect the Rolandic area, but the resulting scleroses may extend and involve not only the muscular, but the mental powers. Common characteristics of these cases are rigidity and spastic contractures of the limbs, obvious even at an early age, but becoming more embarrassing as time goes on. The power of speech as well as of walking is interfered with, and whatever mental intelligence exists is masked by these physical defects. (b) Under the heading 2Mst-febrile or inflam- matory we include cases resulting from various forms of meningeal or cerebral inflammation arising either in the course of acute infectious disease or otherwise produced. Not a few cases of mental deficiency are attributed to the consequence of attacks in early life of small- pox, typhoid fever, scarlatina, and whooping- cough, and when so caused the development of the convolutions seems to have been checked by thickened membranes and changes in the coats of blood-vessels interfering with nutrition; or itMENTAL DEFICIENCY 358 may be, as in severe cases of whooping-cough, from hsemorrhagic extravasations. Morbid hypertrophy of the brain, first described by Virchow in 1856, characterised by a large piled-up cranium, with increased circumfer- ence above the level of the superciliary ridges, is associated with inflammatory changes, but needs to be carefully distinguished from hydro- cephalus. (c) Sclerotic cases include a considerable number of cases of mental defect in which cerebral degeneration is either the terminal condition of inflammatory processes (thus con- nected with class b), or arises as a separate mor- bid process described by Bourneville, luider two principal forms—(1) atrophic, and (2) tuberous. The affection usually begins in early infancy, but is sometimes deferred to the second year. The frontal and occipital lobes are specially affected by the sclerosis. Repeated spasms occur, often localised to particular groups of muscles, and some loss of power follows, amounting occasion- ally to hemiplegia. The child is dull, inatten- tive, and helpless; the mental torpor is usually progressive, though it may be interrupted by brighter intervals. Anatomo-Pathology I. Congenital Cases.—{a) Microcephalus.— The cranial peculiarities of this type have been already described. Here we may state that premature synostosis of the sutures of the skull is in our experience rare in this variety, so that the operative measures founded on this hy- pothesis are illogical. The common character- istic of the microcephalic brain is posterior shortening of the cerebral hemispheres, the cerebellum being thus left uncovered to a greater or less extent. All parts of the brain are on a small scale; but it is the occipital lobe which is least developed, pointing to forma- tive processes being arrested probably between the third and fourth months of gestation. The anterior lobes are imperfectly developed, but yet more advanced than the posterior. Histo- logically, the brain cells are simple in formation, rounded or oval, with but few and stunted processes. (6) PorencepJmlus. — In this condition fluid takes the place of brain substance, a cavity being found usually on the surface of the cere- bral hemisphere extending to the lateral ven- tricles. The cavity may communicate with the arachnoid sac, or be separated from it by the visceral arachnoid. The defect is usually congenital, but may be due to atrophy after circumscribed inflammation. (c) Hydrocephalus may be divided for patho- logical purposes into two main classes :— 1. Primary, including idiopathic cases. 2. Secondary—those secondary to meningo- encephalitis, or to tumours. In the first class of cases there are two varieties, congenital and acquired, and, according to Meynert, they may be distinguished by the fact that in the former the lateral ventricles are extended in their long diameter, in the latter transversely. In both varieties there is an excessive accumulation of fluid, and in a case of profound idiocy recorded by Fletcher Beach, as much as thirty-seven ounces was found. Con- siderable amount of fluid may co-exist with only moderately impaired intelligence, as in a case reported by Shuttleworth of a girl of eleven only slightly imbecile, who conversed rationally till within an hour of her death, when it was found that her large globular skull contained twenty ounces of fluid to thirty-six of cerebral matter. A chronic intraventricular meningitis (congested ependyma) is presumed to be the source of the effusion; but besides hyper- secretion there may be blocking of foramina and lack of normal absorption in the exterior serous cavity. In extreme cases the septum between the ventricles may disappear, and the cerebral envelope become thinned in a marked degree. In secondary hydrocephalus there is obliteration of the foramina of Monro, Magendie, or Miezer- jewski, or obstruction of the veins of Galen, by the pressure of tumours or meningitis. {d) The characteristic pathological features of mongoloid idiocy, in addition to the physical features already alluded to, are a brain short in antero-posterior measurement, the occipital lobe being often imperfectly developed, coarsely con- voluted, and with few secondary convolutions. Wilmarth remarks of five mongoloid brains examined by him that they were all of fair size for imbecile brains, the pons and medulla alone being very small—indeed, only about half the usual relative weight. Archibald Garrod and John Thomson have noticed the frequency with which cardiac imperfections are found in young mongoloid idiots; and the latter has recorded a three-year-old case in which he found incom- petence of the tricuspid valve, probably due to intra-uterine endocarditis. These children have, as a rule, poor stamina, and are apt to succumb to tubercular disease early in life. (e) Sporadic cretinism has a literature of its own, and for its pathology we refer the reader to the article "Cretinism," vol. ii. p. 251. (/) Primarily Neurotic Cases.—The patho- logical features of this class vary considerably, but Clouston lays much stress upon the preva- lence of the pointed Gothic-arched neurotic palate, as associated with neurotic diathesis in contradistinction to the deformed palates which obtain in the other forms of idiocy and imbe- cility. Eugene Talbot of Chicago has remarked the comparative preponderance of V-shaped palates amongst upper-class defective children —usually of the neurotic type—in an ex- amination of these and of children in public idiot asylums. It is in this class that a typical asymmetry of cerebral hemispheres, both as359 MENTAL DEFICIENCY regards bulk and as regards gyral development, have been noted by Spitzka, Mills, and others, and in one case, which fell under the notice of the present writer, small and slender con- volutions (niicrogyric), more or less curling, were found to exist markedly in the frontal region of the left hemisphere. But it is prob- ably in the nerve-cells themselves, rather than in the arrangement of convolutions, that the essential abnormalities reside; and structural peculiarities akin to those described by Bevan Lewis in the epileptic brain, such as inflated spheroidal cells, with deficiency of protoplasmic processes, may be looked for in these cases of nervous instability. II. Developmental Group. — (a) Amaurotic Cases.—In these the essential change is one of degeneration of the pyramidal cells of the cortex, most marked in the convolutions other than the superior frontal and middle tem- pero-sphenoidal. There is considerable optic atrophy, and the retina at the yellow spot is slightly detached from the choroid. (6) In eclampsic cases the pathological lesions usually met with are, localised hsemorrhagic products and thickened adherent membranes interfering with normal nutrition of the con- volutions. (c) In epileptic cases the cerebral changes consist, according to Bevan Lewis, of hardening of the neuroglia fibre-cells, diffuse or focal, with gradually advancing destruction of the nerve- cells. " Cells from the brains of epileptic imbeciles of adult age (twenty and over) often show in considerable areas a development of neurons or nerve-cells not greater than that of a healthy child between the ages of three and five." Vacuolation of the cortical cell- nuclei had also been observed by this authority and by Andriezen. Echeverria sums up the morbid conditions as consisting of diminution of the cortical substance and of the nervous elements, with exuberant genesis of connective tissue undergoing retrograde metamorphosis. {d) Syphilitic cases terminating in juvenile dementia and paresis — the juvenile general paralysis of Clouston and other writers—present characteristic atrophic changes in the convolu- tions, most marked in the frontal and central portions of the brain. In a case reported by the present writer in the American Journal of Insanity for 1888, the brain weighed only 44 ounces, the frontal convolutions were exceed- ingly small, and there were signs of endoarteritis. Recently Mott has studied the pathology of thirty cases of juvenile general paralysis, and in 80 per cent there were undoubted signs or history of congenital syphilis, and in the remaining 20 per cent it could not be excluded. Degenerative changes in the nerve-cell due to inherent defects in the germinal plasm of the parents are assigned by him as the origin of the mental symptoms. III. Passing to accidental or acquired cases we first consider the pathology of— (a) Traumatic cases, the most interesting group of which is that of birth palsies. The most common cause is (according to Freud, M'Nutt, and others) meningeal haemorrhage spreading to the great longitudinal fissure, and pressing upon the upper edges of both hemispheres, leading to atrophic cortical changes. Depending on their extent, spastic rigidity, paraplegia, or cerebral diplegia are produced. In cases resulting from falls on the head, concussion, compression, and meningeal ha3mor- rhage may be combined as primary causes with degenerative secondary changes. Collier, how- ever, in a recent paper in Brain ^ has maintained that the initial degeneration of the pyramidal cells of the cortex is the essential lesion in infantile cerebral palsies, contending that the importance of birth injuries, and meningeal hsemorrhage, as causal factors in the produc- tion of diplegia, has been over-estimated. He judiciously remarks that "every degree of mental impairment is met with in these cases from slight mental dulness to complete amentia," the degree of mental defect not always corre- sponding to the severity and rigidity of the paralysis, and depending upon the greater or less affection of the prfefrontal lobes. (6) Post-febrile or Inflammatory Casus.—In these cases are found thickened membranes and inflammatory products pressing upon the convolutions, and so checking their develop- ment, or interfering with the nutrition of the nerve-cells. Sometimes also there is thickening of the cranium with premature ossification of the sutures. Cullerre and Bernadini have observed increase in neuroglia, fatty and pig- mentary degeneration of nerve - cells, and atrophy of their processes, with diminution in number of ganglion and pyramidal cells. In hypertrophic cases of idiocy Rokitansky and others have held the view that increase of neuroglia, with fatty and pigmentary de- generation of the nerve-cells and atrophy of their processes, are the characteristic lesions— at any rate of the later stages of the disease. The brain is heavy. Dr. Beach has recorded a case in which it weighed 62 ounces. Amongst the microscopical changes found in the brains of idiots many have incidentally been mentioned under the different types. We may, however, sum up the abnormalities by saying that the brain-cells are usually rounded or pear - shaped and deficient in processes. Often the nucleus has retracted protoplasm about it with granular matter ex- ternally. Hammarberg, whose histological re- searches upon the brains of mentally defective children are the most complete series we possess, demonstrates that there is a definite relation between the number of the pyramidal and ' Brain, vol. xxii. p. 373, etc.MENTAL DEFICIENCY 360 spindle cells and the degree of intelligence. With low-grade idiots these cells are few and far between, and they increase gradually as intelligence increases, being however still abnormally scarce as compared with the normal, even in cases of slighter mental deficiency, known (in this country) as " feeble-mindedness." Diagnosis and Prognosis.—The diagnostic signs of the several types of idiocy have been set forth to a considerable extent in the classification. But the practical question as to the existence of mental deficiency in a given case, especially when marked typical features are not present, is one which needs more detailed consideration. Comparatively seldom will a mother admit mental defect in her oftspring until absolutely driven to do so : the child is said to suffer from some sensorial defect, and is often taken the round of eye, ear, and throat specialists before being sub- mitted to the judgment of the expert in paedo- psychiatry. It is desirable on many grounds that an early diagnosis of infantile mental in- firmity should be made, and the following hints may be of use to the general practitioner :— Cranial abnormalities, which in marked cases may be early observed, e.g. in microcephalic and hydrocephalic cases, are distinctly diagnostic. Taking a child at the age of nine months, it may be said that a circumferential head measure- ment much under 17 inches, or much over 19 inches, is indicative of probable abnormality. The brachycephalic head of the Mongol type, the expanded flattened-out cranial vault, with depressed and open fontanelles, of the cretin, and the asymmetrical skull of the paralytic type, are all suggestive. The rickety form of head, with frontal and occipital bosses, is fre- quently seen (in large towns, at any rate) associated with the less-marked forms of mental defect. "The persistence of the medio-frontal suture, or the existence of a medio-frontal ridge towards which a narrow forehead tapers, may be accepted as signs of imperfect development of the frontal lobes," a condition often seen in defectives of the " primary neurotic " type. Certain abnormalities of physical formation and development—(" stigmata of degeneration," as some have called them)—such as hare-lip, fissured, contracted, or deformed palates, facial asymmetry, macroglossus, abnormally implanted ears with absence of lobule, epicanthic folds extending across the curuncle, coloboma iridis, defects of ocular media, nose depressed or in- dented at bridge, polydactilism, cardiac imperfec- tions with cyanosis,—all these will be suggestive to the practitioner of abnormality (which may be mental as well as physical), especially when several of these stigmata co-exist. Much im- portance has been attributed by some to a high and narrow palate as a sign of congenital mental defect; but this alone is not conclusive, as it is found in many talented though neurotic persons. But after all it is by abnormality of nervous action, in conjunction with the consideration of the physical defects just named, that the dia- gnosis of mental abnormality is best made. The baby who lies listless and apathetic at a year old, and does not attempt to use its legs, or to make the usual infantile sounds, is doubtless mentally deficient; but there may be, on the other hand, excessive nervous irritability and irregular movement, perhaps spasmodic twitch- ings of certain groups of muscles, or a general tremor. In the paralytic type of cases nystag- mus is often present. Broadly speaking, the non-paralytic child who does not attempt to talk or to walk at the usual period may be suspected of some degree of mental deficiency. Then again defects in nutrition, especially if these defects persist in spite of appropriate feeding, are often symptomatic of constitutional defect associated with atrophic brain conditions, which impede the due evolution of intelligence. Warner has recorded an excessive ratio of mal- nutrition observed in the children of poor-law schools as compared with children in ordinary elementary schools, in spite of the good dietaries of the former, and this is coincident with about double the proportion of feeble-minded in the former as compared with the latter. As has been well remarked by John Thomson,^ " Many of the mentally defective infants we meet with present none of the grosser physical defects (above named) ; in these we may have to found our diagnosis entirely on the degree of delay in the development of the bodily and mental powers present, taken along with sur- rounding circumstances. Thus we must think of mental deficiency if a child is very long in learning to hold up his head, to sit, to use his hands, to stand, and to walk, and especially if he does not show the natural desire of the healthy infant to exercise all his developing motor faculties. Or, again, if he is backward in noticing objects, and in responding to the smile and voice of his mother and nurse, and, at a later stage, backward in speaking." Due allowance must, of course, be made for merely temporary backwardness resulting from infantile illnesses attended by debility. As regards prognosis the typical groups are significant. Thus in microcephalic cases the degree of improvement possible varies very much with the size of the head. Little can be expected when the circumference is less than 17 inches ; but when it is 18 or 19 inches the powers of observation may be trained, and manual occupa- tions may be acquired of practical use in after life. With hydrocephalic cases some educational progress may be looked for when all acute symptoms have subsided, and the present writer is acquainted with cases of this type ^ "On the Diagnosis of certain Forms of Imbecility in Infancy," Scottish Medical aiid Surgical Journal, March 1898, p. 204.361 MENTAL DEFICIENCY in which very satisfactory results have been obtained by training. In porencephalic cases improvement is very much dependent on the extent of the lesion ; but in some cases much amelioration has followed training of the un- injured hemisphere of the brain. In mongoloid cases there are various grades; hut there is some degree of imitative power in all, and this may be utilised in the higher class for teaching simple mechanical pursuits. The tendency to tubercular disease developing about the period of puberty is, however, a drawback to be kept in mind. Cretinoid cases treated with thyroid develop wonderfully both physically and men- tally, and from being little more than inert masses, become at length suitable cases for ordinary school instruction. Primarily neurotic cases require great care in bringing up and educating, and they are liable to develop chorea and other nervous affections, and later may fall the victims of adolescent insanity. The prog- nosis of all the developmental types is unfavour- able, though exceptions may perhaps be made in the cases of eclampsic and epileptic children ceasing to suffer from fits. Amaurotic cases always die about the end of the second year ; and syphilitic cases as a rule degenerate after puberty, and, after two or three years of increas- ing dementia and paralysis, perish miserably. Traumatic cases attended with some degree of paralysis often improve mentally much more than would be expected from their ungainly physical features, especially in the slighter cases of birth palsy, attaining under proper drill and manual training even some amount of dexterity. As a rule inflammatory cases are unsatisfactory, the development of brain being limited by toughened membranes and inflam- matory products; and the prognosis of sclerotic cases is invariably bad. Treatment and Training.—A few words on the subject must suffice here : those interested in the subject, which is necessarily a specialty, being (as Bourneville calls it) medico^edagogic, are referred to the works of Seguin, Ireland, and Shuttleworth. Briefly described, the system may be stated to be a combination of hygienic and appropriate medical treatment with speci- ally adapted physical, manual, and educational exercises. The training of a mentally deficient child cannot be commenced too soon ; and the misfortune is that the mother, the natural guardian of the child, is, by reason of a common neuropathic heritage, often the very worst person to commence it. Seguin has well laid down the principles on which to proceed in the following paragraph :—" As soon as any function is set down as deficient at its due time of development, the cause must be sought and combated ; if external, removed ; if seated in the nervous apparatus, counteracted by the earliest course of training and hygienic measures. The arm of the mother becomes a swing or a sup- porter ; her hand, a monitor or a compressor; her eye, a stimulator or a director of the distracted look ; the cradle is converted into a classroom or gymnasium." To descend to detail, the first matter requiring the maternal attention is the cultivation of cleanly habits, and much may be done by methodical attention ; the second is the training to definite effort of the motor apparatus, e.g. by getting the child to hold on with his hands and to exercise his legs; the third is to cultivate the rudimentary powers of speech. By slow degrees the child may be taught to undress and to dress, to feed himself, and to wash and be personally neat. This much attained, comes the rule of the trained teacher acting under medical direction, who will note and cultivate the child's capacities, and know how to exercise its incapacities; and if the " 3 R's" are unattainable (as in many cases they will be) apply such manual training as will not only help the brain development, but will also fit the pupil as far as possible for some employment—it may be but a humble one—in the practical business of life. For the most pronounced cases of mental defect, those generally recognised as idiots and imbeciles, there is no doubt that training in an institution, where a staff of skilled nurses as well as of teachers is available, is the best course, inasmuch as attempts at education of single cases at home are usually unpracticable, or if practicable, ineifective. Under proper conditions of classification, indeed, the aggrega- tion of such children into small groups for teaching purposes is of distinct advantage, as the "sympathy of numbers " helps both teachers and taught. The resources of &n institution also furnish facilities, not to be obtained else- where, for the necessary manual and industrial training. The more nearly the domestic ar- rangements can approximate to those of family life the better for the children, and small groups in cottage homes are to be preferred to larger aggregations in the wards of an asylum. Employment in the open air, in simple garden or farm work, is of great value, so that training institutions should always be in the couutry and on sites that are high and dry. With regard to children whose mental deficiency is less marked—those known as merely " feeble- minded "—special instruction in small day classes has of late years been organised for such by several of the school boards, and under the Elementary Education (Defective and Epileptic Children) Act of 1899 a special grant in aid is now allowed by the (English) Board of Educa- tion. To secure this grant the law requires that each child should be certified in a prescribed form by a recognised medical officer, to the effect that " not being imbecile, and not being merely dull and backward, he is by reason of mental (or physical) defect incapable of receiving proper benefit from instruction in an ordinary362 MENTAL DEFICIENCY public elementary school, but is not incapable, by reason of such defect, of receiving benefit from instruction in a certified special class or school." Mental Diseases. »S'ee Insanity, Eti- ology OF; Insanity, Pathology of ; Insanity, Nature and Symptoms ; Insanity, General Treatment op ; Lunacy. See also Adolescent Insanity; Alcoholic Insanity; Chorea {Choreic Insanity) ; Civil Incapacity ; Climacteric In- sanity ; Criminal Responsibility ; Dipsomania ; Epileptic Insanity ; General Paralysis ; Mas- turbation ; Mental Deficiency ; Morphino- mania ; Paranoia ; Puerperium, Pathology {Insanities); Senile Insanity ; Sleep, Normal AND Morbid ; Suicide ; Unconsciousness ; Vice. Mentha.—Mint, ^^ee Menthol ; Pepper- mint ; Pharmacology ; etc. Menthiodol.—A preparation used locally in neuralgia; it contains menthol {q.v.) and iodine. Ment hoform. — A combination of menthol, formaldehyde, and glycerole. Menthol. See also Lichen {Treatment, Menthol Soaj}); Lung, Tuberculosis of (Treat- vient, Menthol); Nose, Local ANiESTHETics.—A crystalline substance in fused masses or colourless needles, obtained by cooling oil of peppermint. It melts at 107'6° F. It is sparingly soluble in water, insoluble in glycerine, soluble 5 in 1 of alcohol, 2 in 1 of ether, 4 in 1 of chloroform, and 1 in 4 of olive oil. It tastes of peppermint, and produces a warm glow of the tongue followed by a feeling of cold on drawing in the breath. Dose — |-2 grs. Preparation — Em- plastrum Menthol. Menthol is employed chiefly for its local ansesthetic properties. Neuralgia may be re- lieved by direct rubbing of a cone of menthol on the skin over the affected nerve, or by painting on a solution in spirit, or by the application of the plaster. It is useful in lumbago, sciatica, and muscular rheumatism in the form of a liniment containing menthol 3, chloroform 4, olive oil 9, or methyl salicylate may take the place of the chloroform. It is antiseptic, and has been tried in the treatment of ringworm of the scalp, but without much success. Menthol relieves itching, and for this purpose it should be dissolved in olive oil. Menthol "snufF," containing menthol 1, boric acid 2, ammonium chloride 3, and lycopodium 6, gives great relief in nasal catarrh. A drop or two of the oily fluid, made by mixing equal parts of phenol and menthol, applied to a carious tooth will often cure toothache. Tuberculous ulcera- tion of the larynx has been treated by menthol 1 in 4 of olive oil painted on directly. In asthma, laryngitis, etc., a vapour produced by the addition of hot water may be inhaled, or a nebuliser, containing Menthol grs. xx., Liquid Paraffin |i., may be employed to form a spray. Pastilles, each containing ^ grain men- thol, are recommended for colds in the head. Internally it was formerly administered as a carminative in the vomiting of pregnancy and in gastralgia, but it is now practically never prescribed for internal use. It is sometimes given as a rectal injection (gr. i. in Si. of olive oil) in the treatment of thread-worms. Mentholin.—A proprietary preparation, said to consist of menthol, boric acid, and coffee (powdered). Menthone. — A ketone, CioH^gO, ob- tained from menthol. Menthophenol.~An antiseptic liquid containing phenol and menthol. MentO-.—In compound words mento- (Lat. meiitum, chin) means relating to the chin ; thus in face presentations in labour, when the chin lies to the front of the mother, the position is called mento-anterior. In anatomy also the term is used in such combinations as mento- hyoid, mento-mastoid, etc. Mentone. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Mephitis. — A noxious emanation or poisonous stench; from this word comes the adjective mephitic, meaning offensive or pesti- lential, e.g. mephitic gangrene. Meraig^ia.—Neuralgia affecting the thigh (Gr. fj.-r]p6s, the thigh, aAyos, pain). Meralgria Paraesthetica.—Sensory disturbances (numbness, pain, etc.) in the outer and anterior surfaces of the thigh, due to dis- ease of the external cutaneous nerve; Bernhardt's Parsesthesia. See Nerves, Peripheral {Meralgia Par<jesthetica). Me ran. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {Austria, Tirol). Meranaesthesia.~A morbid condition characterised by partial ansesthesia (Gr. /xept's, a portion). Mercaptan. — A sulphur alcohol or thio-alcohol (CH^SH), a compound resembling alcohol but having sulphur in place of oxygen ; a compound of a mercaptan with an aldehyde constitutes a mercaptal. Mercaptans very readily take up mercury to form compounds, e.g. (C2H5S)2Hg, hence their name (Lat. mer- curium cajyfans). MercaurO.—A proprietary preparation, used as an alterative in syphilis, etc., and said to contain the bromides of gold, arsenic, and363 MERCAURO mercury. Dose—f> to 15 m. thrice daily after food. Mercier'S Bar. —The transverse fold of mucous membrane of the bladder joining the openings of the ureters and forming the posterior boundary of the trigone. Mercurial. See Mercury. Mercurial ism.—Poisoning due to the use of m.ercury (hydrargism), and characterised by tremor {mercurial tremor), paresis or paraly- sis (mercurial palsy), stomatitis, colicky pains, and neuritis; hydrargyriasis. See Toxicology {Mercury); Trades, Dangerous {Mercury); Colon, Diseases op {Membranous Colitis); Nerves, Multiple Peripheral Neuritis {Mer- curial Neuritis); Pharmacology ; Syphilis. Mercuriol. — A mercurial compound, forming a grey powder, used externally in cases in which mercury is indicated {e.g. syphilis) ; mixed with oil of almonds it has been given as a hypodermic injection (by MoUer, Gluck, and others); mercuralgam. Mercurol.—An asti-ingent and antiseptic compound, forming a brownish powder, and consisting of nucleic acid and mercury (mercury nucleid); it is recommended as a solution in gonorrhoea, in ophthalmia, and in the treatment of ulcers. Mercury. See also Colon, Diseases op {Membranous Colitis); Drug Eruptions {Mer- cury) ; Heart, Neuroses op {Arrhythmia, Treatment); Pharmacology ; Prescribing ; Pso- riasis {Treatment); Purpura {Symptomatic, Toxic); Stomatitis {Gangrenous); Syphilis ; Tongue {Glossitis); Toxicology {Mercury); Trades, Dangerous {Mercury).—Hydrargyrum, Quicksilver—symbol, Hg; atomic weight, 198-8—a heavy fluid metal with a peculiar lustrous appearance. In the following prepara- tions it exists as metallic mercury, uncom- bined. 1. Hydrargyrum cum Cretd. Grey Powder. 1 of mercury with 2 of prepared chalk, intimately mixed together. Dose—1-5 grs. 2. Pilula Hydrargyri. Blue Pill. Strength, 1 in 3 of mercury. Dose—4-8 grs. 3. Emplastrum Hydrargyri. Sulphur is used in its preparation, which covers the globules of mercury with sulphide of mercury and prevents them running together. Strength, 1 in 3 of mercury. 4. Emplastrum Ammoniaci cum Hydrargyro. Strength, 1 in 5 of mercury. 5. Unguentum Hydrargyri. Blue Ointment. Strength, 1 in 2 of mercury. 6. Unguentum Hydrargyri Compositum. Strength, 1 in 5 of mercury. 7. Linimentum Hydrargyri. Strength, 1 in 6 of mercury. The following are the official compounds of mercury :—1. Hydrargyri Oxidum Bubrum. Red Precipitate, HgO. A heavy orange-red powder, insoluble in water. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Rubri. Red precipitate 1, paraffin ointment 9. 2. Hydrargyri Oxidum Flavnm. Yellow Oxide, HgO. A yellow powder, insoluble in water. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Flavi. Yellow oxide 1, soft paraffin 49. 3. Hydrargyri Perchloridum. Mercuric Chloride, Corrosive Sublimate, HgClj. Large, heavy, colourless lumps made up of prismatic crystals. Soluble 1 in 16 of distilled water, 1 in 3 of alcohol. Dose—uVtV Preparations—(«) Liquor Hydrargyri Perchloridi. Strength, ^ grain to every fluid ounce. Dose—30-60 m. {b) Lotio Hydrargyri Flava. Yellow Wash. Mer- curic chloride is mixed with lime-water to form the insoluble yellow oxide. Strength, 2 grains in each fluid ounce. 4. Hydrargyri Sibbchloridum. Mercurous Chloride, Calomel, Hg^Clp. A dull white insoluble powder. Dose—1-5 grs. Pre- parations—(a) Lotio Hydrargyri Nigra. Black AVash. The insoluble black mercurous oxide is formed with lime-water. Strength, 3 grains in each fluid ounce, (b) Pilula Hydrargyri Sub- chloridi Composita. Plummer's Pill. Calomel 1, sulphuretted antimony 1, guaiac resin 2, castor oil |, alcohol \. Dose—4-8 grs. (c) Unguentum Hydrargyri Subchloridi. Calomel 1, benzoated lard 9. 5. Hydrargyri Oleas. Made with oleic acid. A greyish-yellow oily substance of a semi-solid consistence. Prepara- tion— Unguentum Hydrargyri Oleatis. Mer- curic oleate 1, benzoated lard 3. 6. Hydrargyri lodidum Rxthrum. Mercuric Iodide, Biniodide of Mercury, Hglg. A vermilion crystalline powder, slightly soluble in water, freely soluble in potassium iodide solution; becomes yellow when heated. Dose—T^-yV g^- Preparations —(a) Liquor Arsenii et Hydrargyri lodidi. Donovan's solution. A pale yellow liquid con- taining 1 per cent each of arsenious iodide and mercuric iodide in water. Dose—5-20 m. (i) Unguentum Hydrargyri lodidi Rubri. Mer- curic iodide 1, benzoated lard 24. 7. Liquor Hydrargyri Nitratis Acidus. Mercuric Nitrate, Hg(N03)2 in solution in nitric acid. A coloui-- less, heavy, strongly acid solution. Preparations —(a) Unguentum Hydrai'gyri Nitratis. Citrine ointment, {b) LTnguentum Hydrargyri Nitratis Dilutum. 1 of the strong ointment in 4 of paraffin. 8. Hydrargyrum Ammoniatum. White Precipitate. A white insoluble powder made by mixing solutions of ammonia and perchloride of mercury. Preparation — Unguentum Hydrar- gyri Ammoniati. White precipitate 1, paraffin ointment 9. In the form of the perchloride or biniodide mercury is a very powerful antiseptic, and is largely used in surgery. A 1 in 1000 solution in water or spirit is useful for washing the hands, or for purifying the part to be operated on. Solutions varying in strength from 1 in 4000 to 1 in 40,000 are employed for washing out wounds or cavities. There is considerableMERCURY 364 danger of absorption and poisoning if too strong a solution or too large a quantity be used, and for this reason intra-uterine douches of corrosive sublimate have been almost entirely abandoned. It has been supposed that the biniodide is a stronger antiseptic than the perchloride, but this is probably not the case. Corrosive sub- limate discs, coloured blue, are a useful form in which to carry the antiseptic. Mercurial ointments are used in a host of skin affections, particularly those of parasitic origin. Blue oint- ment, white precipitate ointment, and dilute nitrate of mercury ointment destroy pediculi, and are also efficacious in ringworm and favus. Care must be observed that too large a quantity is not applied at one time as there is a risk of poisoning from absorption. White precipitate ointment is specific in impetigo contagiosa. The official ointment is far too strong and would cause dermatitis; 5 grains to the ounce is the proper strength to use. A weak nitrate of mercury ointment is excellent in the treatment of styes of the eye, and if applied early enough may check their development. An ointment of the yellow oxide (4 grains to the ounce) is of great service in the treatment of phlyctenular and other forms of conjunctivitis. Mercurial ointments are also used in psoriasis and many scaly skin affections. Black wash is used for application to syphilitic sores; yellow wash is preferred when a greater stimulant effect is desired. Calomel as a dusting powder is of great value in the treatment of syphilitic con- dylomata. A calomel ointment gives relief in pruritus ani. Recent experiments tend to show that the local application of calomel in the form of an ointment prevents the formation of the primary syphilitic sore. Blue ointment has been applied empirically over enlarged glands, in tuberculous peritonitis, and in meningitis. In oztena, whether syphilitic or not, white or red precipitate, 2-8 grains to the ounce, as a snuff, removes the stench and may cure the complaint. A weak solution of perchloride of mercury may be used as a mouth wash in syphilitic ulceration. A stronger solution, applied with a brush, is an excellent antiseptic in tonsillitis and diphtheria. Internally mercury, as blue pill, grey powder, or calomel, is universally employed as a purga- tive, especially when a stimulant effect on the biliary apparatus is required. Whether calomel is a direct hepatic stimulant or not is of little importance from the clinical standpoint. The greater part of its action is probably intestinal, the bile-ducts and gall-bladder being relieved in- directly ; but it is possible that a small quantity of the drug is converted into the perchloride, and that this has a direct stimulant effect on the liver. That form of dyspepsia usually called " bilious- ness," when there is headache, constipation, dirty tongue, and general lassitude, will almost invariably be relieved by a dose of calomel at night, followed by Mistura Sennse Composita or a saline in the morning. Calomel acts better in repeated small doses than in a single large dose. In simple diarrhoea a dose of calomel is often curative, and in any case should precede the administration of astringents. In children, grey powder is a favourite remedy for diarrhoea, and for dyspeptic conditions with flatulence, fetid breath, and ill-smelling pasty stools. In jaundice due to catarrh of the bile-ducts or slight hepatic congestion, calomel or grey powder will often bring relief. Calomel is the most reliable intestinal antiseptic, and has recently been used with considerable success in dysentery and typhoid fever; it is also the best purgative to be employed in the after-treatment of most cases of abdominal operation. For all these purposes repeated small doses are to be pre- ferred. Gently purgative doses of calomel have a marked diuretic effect in cases of dropsy. When kidney disease is present, however, mer- curial purgatives are to be avoided, as an un- controllable diarrhoea may be set up by their use. In heart cases Guy's diuretic pill, con- taining 1 grain each of blue pill, squills, and digitalis, with extract of hyoscyamus, has frequently a marvellous effect. In the early stages of acute inflammations, especially of serous membranes, as in pleurisy, pericarditis, endocarditis, and meningitis, in sthenic indi- viduals, full doses of calomel guarded with opium do great good. Perchloride of mercury, in doses of yV grain three times daily, has been very successful in the treatment of lichen planus. The specific action of mercury in syphilis makes it one of the most valuable drugs at our command. It is useful under certain con- ditions at all stages of the disease, but auth- orities differ widely as to when it is to be used and for how long. In most cases treatment with mercury should be commenced as early as possible and continued for twelve or eighteen months, after which a six months' course of iodide should be given. The administration of the drug can be carried out in various ways. By the mouth, grey powder 1 grain with 1 grain of Dover's powder, four to six times daily, gives most excellent results. The biniodide {--^ grain) or the protiodide (i grain) three times daily in pill are also strongly recommended. For the later stages of the disease, potassium iodide in solution with liquor hydrargyri perchloridi is a favourite prescription. Inunction is a very efficient means of introducing mercury into the system. About half a drachm of blue ointment should be rubbed into the skin of the axilla or groin each evening for six evenings in the week. In infants, a flannel binder with a little of the ointment spread on may be wrapped about the belly. The wearing of mercuro-lint chest bibs is another method of introducing mercury through the skin. Another good method ofMERCURY 365 administration is by fumigation : the patient sits on a chair with a blanket wrapped round him and subjects himself for twenty minutes to the fumes of 30 grains of calomel volatilised by a spirit-lamp arrangement placed beneath the chair. Lastly, mercury may be given by intra- muscular injection, but most authorities reserve this method of treatment for severe cases. It has not yet been decided which form of mercury is the best for this purpose. The soluble mercurials are preferable to the insoluble. Perchloride of mercury, about grain in 10 minims of distilled water, is effective, but causes great pain and causes induration of the muscle. Cyanide of mercury is almost painless, but is very poisonous and may cause albuminuria. Lactate of mercury is safe, painless, and rapidly eliminated. Dose—J gr. in 15 m. of water. " Grey oil " is a suspension of metallic mercury in lanolin and paraffin. The strength is usually 1 grain to 10 minims, which is a maximum dose for a week. The action is slow, the mercury probably being converted into the albuminate in the system. Salicylate of mercury, 10 per cent in liquid paraffin, is non-irritant and effec- tive. Dose—YQ-l gr. Calomel, 10 per cent in olive oil, is painful but very effective. Mercury may also occasionally be given as a suppository. Whatever method of administration be selected, when mercury has to be taken for a long period the proper dose for the individual patient must be ascertained as soon as possible. Salivation is to be avoided, and great care should be taken of the gums and teeth. A few of the non-official preparations of mercury require mention. Sal Alembroth is a double chloride of mercury and ammonium; it is a powerful antiseptic, and less irritat- ing than corrosive sublimate. Mercuro-Zinc Cyanide is a white powder with strong anti- septic properties, and non-irritating; dressings impregnated with it and stained mauve are much used in surgery. Mercury Protiodide (Hydrargyri lodidum Flavum, U.S.) is much milder than the biniodide, and is used for the same purposes. Dose—^\ gr. Salicylate of Mercury is useful in hypodermic medication. There are also numerous other preparations, proprietary and otherwise. Mercury Amalgam is much used for dental fillings. Merg^a.1. — Mercuric choleate, Hg (C24H3g05)2, a yellowish powder soluble in alkalies, recommended in cases of syphilis, in doses of 2 to 5 grains per diem. Merino.—A fabric for underclothing, con- sisting of a mixture of cotton and wool; it was, originally, the wool of the merino sheep. Meristifbrm. — Having the shape of the sarcina ventricula or wool-pack organism (Gr. /i€pts, a part). Merkel's Corpuscles. See Skin, Anatomy and Physiology [Anatomy, Nerves, Special Terminal Corpuscles), Mermaid Foetus.—The fojtus sympus; that form of monstrosity in which the lower limbs are rotated outwards and more or less fused together ; sympodia; sireniform foetus. See Teratology {Malformation of Limbs). Mero-.—In compound words mero- (Gr. liipo<;, a part) means partial; e.g. a meroblastic ovum is one which divides only in part, is only partly germinal. Meroa,Cra.nia..—The less marked degree of defect of the brain and crania vault, in con- trast with complete absence of these structures or holoacrania (q.v.). See Teratology. MerOCele.—Femoral hernia (Gr. [xrjpos, the thigh). Meromicrosomia.—Localised dwarf- ism ; an unnatural smallness of a part of the body. Mero - RhachiSChisiS. — Localised spina bifida (q.v.). Merotomy.—The experimental division of an ovum or amoeba in order to trace the origin of the various structures developing from it. See Embryology (General Princij^les). M6ry'S Glands. — Cowper's glands ; the bulbo-urethral glands. Merycism.—The act of rumination (Gr. I chew the cud), a condition occa- sionally met with in the human subject in certain forms of indigestion; the food is re- turned from the stomach into the mouth and remasticated. See Indigestion {Symptoms, Motor). Mesad or Mesiad. — Towards the middle. MesaortitiS. — Arteritis, sometimes syphilitic in origin, affecting the middle coat of the aorta, and predisposing to aneurysm. MesaraiC. — Mesenteric (Gr. fieadpaiov, the belly). See Mesenteric Glands. MesarteritiS. — Inflammation of the middle coat of an artery. MesaticephalUS.—Mesocephaly; the condition in which the head has a breadth index of 750 to 800. See Anthropology; Ethnology. MesatipelliC—The name given to a pelvis having a pelvic index intermediate between that of the European (platypellic) and that of the Australian aboriginal (dolichopellic); it is found in the negro. See Anthropology.366 MESENCEPHALON Mesencephalon. — The midbrain. See Embryology (^Development of Brain). Mesenchyme.—The parts of the body derived from the mesoderm in which the cells are scattered in a matrix of non-cellular material (e.g. cartilage, bone), as distinguished from mesothelium, in which the cells (derived from the mesoderm) are arranged in a definite layer or layers. MesenteritiS. — Inflammation of the mesentery. Mesentery: Mesenteric Glands. See also Abdomen, Injuries op {Lesions of Mesentery); Abdominal Aneurysm {Mesenteric Arteries); Appendix Vermiformis {Results of Infectioii); Ascites {Causation); Children, Clinical Examination of {Abdomen, Mesenteric Glands); Hydatid Disease {Abdominal); Intes- tines, Diseases of {A^iatomy); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable Kidney, Diagnosis); Lymphatic System {Glands); Ovaries, Diseases OF {Tumours, Diagnosis); Peritoneum ; Post- mortem Methods {Examination of Body Cavi- ties) ; Tuberculosis {Morbid Anatomy, Glands); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce); Veins, Diseases of. Mesenteric Glands.—These glands lie between the layers of the mesentery and round the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery; they receive lacteals from the small intestines and colon as far as the sigmoid flexure, and their eff'erent vessels join those of the coeliac glands to form an intestinal lymphatic trunk opening into the thoracic duct. The coeliac glands surround the coeliac axis and the aorta above the superior mesenteric artery, and are concerned with the functions of the stomach, upper part of the duodenum, etc. {see "Lymphatic System, Pathology of," p. 99). It cannot be too strongly emphasised that a diseased state of these glands represents a vital reaction of the gland to a specific instant rather than a disease of the gland in the ordinary sense of that term. Hence the importance of a know- ledge of the structure and functions of lymph- glands already given in this volume {vide ante), where the author has clearly indicated the manner in which that function is altered by the access of various pathogenic agents. Of these, by far the most important is the tubercle bacillus. Tuberculosis of the mesenteric glands, or, as it is sometimes designated, tabes mesen- terea, is of frequent occurrence especially in children. When present in older subjects it is usually accompanied by involvement of the peritoneum ; but in children it is quite common to find pronounced disease in the glands with little or no affection of the peritoneum, and no apparent lesion in the intestinal mucous mem- brane. There is no doubt that the tubercle bacilli frequently find their way to the mesen- teric glands via the alimentary canal without leaving any trace of their track. A present desideratum, however, is a record of the exact histological appearances of the mucous and sub- mucous coats in these cases; it is more than likely that distinct evidence of local reaction (increase of lymphoid tissue, etc.) would be demonstrated at the parts which had given access to the bacilli. Clinical Features.—Snhjective symptoms may be very slight or, indeed, absent in the earlier stages of the disease, but as a rule some evidence of ill-health has been noted for a varying period. An unnatural peevishness, a capricious digestion, and a diminution in the mental and physical vigour of the child are the symptoms usually observed by the parent. As the condition ad- vances it may be noticed that the abdomen is slightly enlarged, and the child manifests indi- cations of discomfort or pain when the abdomen is handled. Accompanying this, there are in- dications of abnormal intestinal action, notably constipation or diarrhoea; an examination of the stools showing evidence of deficient digestion and abnormal fermentation in the intestinal contents. If the condition be progressive, all the subjective symptoms become intensified, and the condition of the stools becomes par- ticularly pronounced. The objective symptoms are very slight in the earlier stages of the disease. The child may appear out of sorts, and nothing more may be indicated. At this stage it is especially important that a frequent examination of the stools be made. An excess of mucus, the presence of undigested food, and marked foetor from abnormal decomposition will indicate the existence of a marked local weakness which is full of significance to the trained observer. When the disease becomes more pronounced the physical signs in the abdomen are unmistakable. Their severity will depend {a) on the presence or absence of pressure of the glandular masses on the portal vessels, and {b) on the co-existence of involvement of the peritoneum. If definite obstruction exists, ascites with marked disten- sion of the superficial abdominal veins will be a feature. In some cases the fluid is more or less encysted, due to the presence of adhesions which complicate the diagnosis. In the early stages a physical examination of the abdomen may reveal nothing but a slight undue prominence of the abdomen, which feels abnormally resistant on superficial and deep palpation. At this stage examination under an antesthetic is of the utmost service; this sometimes reveals a few deep-seated enlarged glands. It is also ad- visable at this stage to make a rectal examina- tion on an empty bowel, as this may be of service in demonstrating the existence of glands not otherwise readily detected. As the con- ditions become more marked, the rigid doughy feeling of the abdomen, which is the most367 MESENTERY: MESENTERIC GLANDS striking characteristic of the disease, develops, and is accompanied by the engorgement of the superficial veins already referred to. If the disease is not limited to the glands but has involved the peritoneum, thickened bands may be clearly palpable in addition to the glandu- lar masses. The state of the stools should be carefully investigated at every stage of the disease ; continued abnormal decomposition with evidences of catarrh are prominent features. The diagnosis is, as a rule, easy. The two points of greatest importance, e.g. examination under an anaesthetic and a rectal examina- tion, have been already emphasised. The dis- ease is in many cases remarkably amenable to treatment. The prognosis is good if the condition be early recognised and submitted to appropriate treatment. If the patient only come under observation in the later stages of the disease, when the child's general strength is reduced and the local disease has considerably advanced, the outlook is highly unfavourable. In addition to the danger attendant on the toxines of the tubercle bacilli, there is always the possibility of the supervention of intestinal obstruction which will call for active surgical interference. This danger is naturally more pronounced in cases associated with marked thickening and adhesions of the peritoneum. The prognosis will also vary with the presence or absence of pulmonary complications. The line of treatment is (a) to give a diet suited to the physiological capacity of the child, aided, if need be, in bad cases by judicious use of stimulants—the index here is the state of the appetite, and the state of the dejecta; and {b) endeavour to raise the resisting power of the tissues generally, by general hygienic and tonic treatment; and (c) various local measures, e.g. the use of mercurial and other ointments. Further details as to treatnient will be found in the article on " Lungs, Tuberculosis of" (pp. 56-64), and " Bronchial Glands " (vol. ii.). Mesia,!.—In the middle line, e.g. the mesial fillet, one of the conducting paths in the medulla oblongata (see Physiology, Nervous System, Medulla Oblongata). MesiO-.—In compound words mesio- (Gr. fxecro';, middle) signifies relating to the middle, as in mesio-labial, mesio-dorsal, etc. IVIesitylene. —A hydrocarbon, CgHj (0113)3, produced by the action of sulphuric acid on acetone; it is one of the benzene series and is also called trimethylbenzene ; mesitylenic acid, CgHjgOg, is got from it by oxidation. Mesite (Gr. /xea-LTr]^, go-between) is an old name for acetic ether or acetone, and mesityl is the hypothetical radical of it. Mesmerism.—The system of hypnotism popularised by Mesmer, an Austrian physician {b. 1734, d. 1815), and known also as "animal magnetism " or " Braidism." ^'ee Hypnotism. MeSO-.—In compound words mesa- (Gr. [i€a-o<;, middle) means relating to the middle, or medium (in relation to two extremes); e.g. meso- ajjpe-ndix (the peritoneal fold attached to the appendix vermiformis), mesoarium (the peri- toneal fold of attachment of the ovary in the embryo), mesoarteritis (inflammation of the middle coat of an artery), mesocuneiform (middle cuneiform bone of the tarsus), mesocyst (the occasional double fold of peritoneum attaching the gall-bladder to the liver), mesorectiini (the peritoneal fold attaching the rectum to the sacrum), etc. MeSOblast.—The middle layer of the blastoderm ; from it most of the framework (bones, muscles, connective tissue, etc.) of the body is developed; mesoderm. See Embryo- logy ; FcETUs AND Ovum. MeSOCSeCum.—An occasional double fold of peritoneum attaching the csecum to the posterior abdominal wall. MesOCephaliC. — The term applied to skulls situated, as to characters, midway between the brachycephalic (short heads) and the dolichocephalic (long heads). *S'ee An- thropology. Mesochei lorh i nosch isis. — Mesial fissure of the nose and face, occurring in mon- strosities. See Teratology. Mesocolon.—The fold of peritoneum which attaches the colon to the posterior abdominal wall. Mesoderm.—The mesoblast. Mesog'lia. *S'ee Insanity, Pathology of {Neuroglia). MeSOg^nathion. — The intermaxillary bone. MeSOgnathism. — The condition of skull in which the gnathic or jaw index is between 98 and 103. *S'ee Anthropology. MeSOgOnimuS.—An intestinal fluke found in Egypt and Japan, causing distomiasis. See Parasites {Trematodes). MeSOmetritiS.—Inflammation of the uterus. .See Uterus, Inflammations of. Mesometrium.—The middle or mus- cular coat of the uterus; also, the broad liga- ment. <S'ee Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus); Broad Ligament, Diseases of. MeSOnephrOS.—The Wolffian body or middle kidney (as distinguished from the pro- nephros and the metanephros) of the embryo.MESONEPHROS 368 See Broad Ligaments, Diseases of; Embryology; Ovaries, Diseases of {Tumours). MeSOneuritiS. — Inflammation of the substance of a nerve (parts between nerve and sheath), or of the lymphatics of a nerve. MeSOphiliC. — Preferring a moderate temperature {i.e. that of the body), used in relation to some forms of bacteria. MesophlebitiS.—Inflammation of the middle coat of a vein. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis). MeSOropter.—The normal relation of the eyes to each other when the muscles are in a relative state of rest. MeSOrrhine.—An individual or a skull the nasal index of which is from 48 to 53, i.e. intermediate between the leptorrhine and the platyrrhine type. Mesosalpinx.—The peritoneal fold of the broad ligament containing the Fallopian tube and the parovarivxm. See Broad Ligaments. MeSOSCapula. — The spine of the scapula. MeSOSCelOS.—The perineum (Gr. /xeVos, middle, cr/<eAo5, the leg). MeSOSternum. — The middle portion of the sternum, the part lying between the manubrium (pnesternum) and the ensiform cartilage (xiphisternum). MeSOtan. — A salicylic acid preparation (methoxyl-methylester of salicylic acid) recom- mended in cases of rheumatism as an external application (mixed with olive oil); it has also been used in erysipelas. It may cause erythema. MeSOthelium.—The epithelial tissues derived from the mesoderm, as distinguished from mesenchyme {q.v.). Mela-. — In compound words meta- has the meaning of beyond or after or subsequent to—e.g. meta-arthritic (following upon gout), metasplenomegalic (following upon enlargement of the spleen). IVIetabolism.—The chemical and vital processes by which food material is built up into the living tissues of the body {anabolism) or by which the tissues or protoplasm of the body is broken down into simpler compounds [hatabolism). See Alcohol {Physiology); F(ETUS AND Ovum, Development op {Nutrition) ; Lym- phatic System {Functions of Lymph); Preg- nancy, Physiology {General Changes). Metacarpus.—The portion of the hand which intervenes between the phalanges and the bones of the wrist (carpus). See Fractures {Metacarpal Bones); Wrist-Joint, Diseases {Tubercular Osteomyelitis). MetacreSOl. — A coal-tar derivative, C-HjjOg, having an antiseptic and disinfectant action, and recommended internally in doses of 1 to 3 minims. It may be combined with bismuth or with cinnamic acid. Metacyesis.—Secondary ectopic gesta- tion, e.g. the pregnancy begins in the Fallopian tube and is continued in the abdominal cavity. Metakalin.—A cresol soap containing about 73 per cent of metacresol, recommended, as a 1 to 2 per cent solution, for disinfection of hands and instruments. Metallic Cachexia. See Cachexia {Metallic). Metallic Echo. See Lung, Tubercu- losis OF {Physical Signs of Vomica Formation^. Metallic Tinkling^. See Pleura, Diseases of {Pneumothorax., Auscultation). Metallophagfia.—A form of insanity characterised by the desire to eat fragments of metal. Metal lOSCOpy.—The effects produced by the application of metals to the skin in cases of hysteria ; " the phenomena observed in cases of hysterical anaesthesia after the application of a metallic plate or plates to the skin of the affected part which recovers its sensibility, while the corresponding point of the other and un- affected limb loses its sensibility" {Sydenham Soc. Lexicon). MetallOtherapy.—The treatment of nervous (hysterical) maladies by the application of metallic plates to the skin. See Hysteria. Metamerism.—In zoology, metamerism is the condition of being composed of segments or metameres, whilst in chemistry it is the " condition of these isomeric compounds, which, although they have the same composition and molecular weight, have different chemical properties." Metamorphopsia.—A distortion of the objects seen by the eye as in irregular astigmatism and in exudation in the retina and choroid. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Leading Symptomatology); Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis). M etam O r p h OS i S.—A structural change or degeneration, e.g. fatty metamorphosis in which albuminous substances are changed into fat, caseous metamorphosis, retrograde meta- morphosis, etc. MetanephrOS.—The embryonic struc-369 METANEPHROS ture which develops into the permanent kidney and ureter. Meta.pla.Sia,. — The transformation of one adult tissue into another, e.g. of cartilage into bone, or of red into yellow marrow. IVIetarg'On. — A gas entering in very small quantities into the composition of the atmospheric air. Metastasis. — The transference of a disease (or a symptom) from one part or parts to another, usually at some distance therefrom, e.g. from the testicle to the lung. See Mumps {Complications); Parotid Gland, Disorders OF [Injlammatory Conditions) ; Puerperium, Pathology {Deciduonia Malignum, Pathological Anatomy). Metastern U m.—The ensiform cartilage or xiphisternum. MetasyncrisiS.—An old term for the evacuation of morbid matter through the skin, i.e. by diaphoresis. MetasyphiliS.—Morbid states related in some distant or obscure way with syphilis but not themselves directly syphilitic; the quaternary stage of syphilis; parasyphilis. See Syphilis : Tabes Dorsalis ; General Paralysis. Metatarsalg'ia.—Pain of a neuralgic nature in the metatarsus; Morton's disease. See Deformities {Metatarsalgia) ; Gout {Diagnosis). Metatarsus.—The part of the foot which lies between the digits and the tarsal bones. See Fractures {Metatarsal Bones). Metclinikoff's Theory.—Thetheory of the destruction of microbes by phagocytes in the blood. See Immunity. Metencephalon. —The hind brain or that portion of the brain in the embryo which develops into the cerebellum and the pons, the name myelencephalon or after-brain being given to the structure from which the medulla oblongata arises. See Embryology. Meteorism.—Distension of the abdo- minal cavity due to gas in the intestine (Gr. fieredypL^m, I lift up). See PERITONEUM, AcuTE Peritonitis {Symptoms, Distension). Meteorologry- Introductory ..... 369 The Barometer ..... 370 Temperature . . . . . .371 Thermometry . . . . .372 Humidity . . . . . .373 Hygrombtry ...... 374 Dew and Frost ..... 375 VOL. VI Fog and Mist 375 Rain and Snow ..... 377 Measurement of Rainfall . 378 Winds ....... 378 Anbmometry ...... 380 Influence op Meteorological Condi- tions ON Health .... 381 High Altitudes..... 381 The meteorological conditions of any locality are comprised under the two heads of the climate and the weather, the former represent- ing the permanent and unvarying, the latter the temporary and changing meteorological phenomena. The climate exhibits an annual cycle with more or less regular curves, on which the weather superposes minor waves, which, modifying the climate, derive their special characters from it; like causes pro- ducing diverse consequences according as the antecedent conditions under which they act, and by which their action is controlled, differ in tlie several instances. Climate is the general resultant of (1) temperature, altitude, and the distribution of land and water, and (2) humidity, rainfall, prevailing winds, evaporation, radiation, etc., modified by soil, aspect, and various local conditions. Weather, on the other hand, indicates transient deviations in one direction or another from the normal climatic conditions observed at any given time of year, and is primarily dependent on the differences of temperature and consequent movements of the air caused by the sun's rays successively impinging at various angles on the earth's surface, and the further disturbances resulting from the different amounts of absorption and radiation of heat, and of evaporation from land and water as each is exposed to the direct rays of the sun or not. The ever-changing phenomena of weather cannot, therefore, be profitably studied apart from, or save in the light of the four great conditions which are the determinant factors of the local climate, viz., temperature, altitude, rainfall, and humidity. Temperature is primarily dependent on latitude, that is, on the mean and seasonal altitude of the sun and the angle at which its rays impinge on the surface of the earth, but is locally and periodically modified by the direction and character of the ocean currents and of the prevailing winds, whether warm or cold. Thus Labrador and Newfoundland are in the same latitudes as the British Isles and France, but while the western shores of the latter are washed by the warm Gulf Stream from the West Indies, the former are chilled by the icy currents flowing southwards from the eastern coasts of Greenland and Baffin's Bay. These general characters, dependent on the presence or absence of the influence of the Gulf Stream, may be 24METEOROLOGY 370 observed in the difference between the dry, bracing climate of the East Coast, from Norfolk to Aberdeen, and the mild, humid climate and heavy rainfall of Ireland, Devon, and Cornwall. The unimportant part played by latitude alone is shown by the fact, that in the Shetlands snow rarely lies for many days together, though the humidity of the atmosphere and the want of clear sunshine preclude the maturation of cereals, oats excepted. But mean temperatures, unless given for every month in the year, and with the maxima and minima of the monthly variations, afford no useful information as to the true character of a climate. The annual means of London and Newchwang on the Gulf of Pechili are the same, about 50° F., but the means for January and July are for the former 40° and 60° F., and for the latter 0° and 80° F. ; and while the mean annual isothermal lines of England pass through Germany, those for July and January diverge to Finland and Greece respectively. These types of climate are often distinguished as insular and continental, the narrow range of the annual curves in the one being due to the proximity of the ocean ; since water, if it absorb heat more slowly than the land, parts with it slower still, and the greater amount of vapour in the air in summer detracts from its diather- mancy and moderates the heat of the sun's rays ; while the tendency to extremes characteristic of continental climates is intensified in every way when the general elevation of the country is considerable, as it is in southern Germany. The Barometer Ordinary hall barometers are not available for accurate scientific observations, for the levels of the mercury in the tube and the cistern vai-y inversely as their respective sectional areas, or the squares of their diameters, while the scale is necessarily fixed at 760 mm. or 30 inches of the mercury. Thus if the diameters be inch and 1 inch, i.e. as 1 : 10, the squares of these being 1 and 100, a rise of 1 inch in the tube involves a fall of j-ig- inch in the cistern, which must be added to the reading on the scale, and vice versa, constituting the correction for capacity. In the standard or Fortin's barometer this defect is obviated by making the bottom of the cistern movable, that the varying level of the mercury in the cistern can always be so ad- justed as to coincide with the zero of the fixed scale indicated by an ivory peg pointing down- wards. The scale shoidd be engraved on the tube or on a brass rod, the coefficients of expansion of which are known, and not on or attached to the frame. The barometer should be hung perfectly perpendicularly, as indicated by a spirit or mercurial level attaclied to it, in a position sheltered from sun and rain, but in a good light. To read the Barometer. — First note the temperature on the attached thermometer before it can be affected by the warmth of the observer's body. Then adjust the cistern by working the screw beneath it up or down until the point of the ivory peg just meets its image reflected on the surface of the mercury. Gently tap the barometer 3f 3G 3f 36 twice or thrice to over- come any adhesion of the mercury to the glass, and standing with the eye on a level with the upper end of the column, adjust the vernier so that its loiver margin just shuts off the light above the curved surface of the mercury. If (Fig. 1, a) this correspond exactly with a line on the scale the observation is com- plete ; if not, note the line next below on the scale, and then follow- ing the marks on the vernier upwards note the first that coincides with one on the scale. Each figure on the vernier represents y^"^"'^-'- i^^ch, and each division XW(T = wtt'^^'OO^ ^'^ inch, which together indicate the exact value of the excess of height of the mercury over the next lower mark on the scale. Thus suppose the mercury to stand a fraction above 29-650 inches on the scale, and the FlO. 1. Fig. 2. vernier having been adjusted, the first line to coincide with one on the scale to be the third above the figure 3, then, 0-036 is to be added to the 29-650, giving 29-686 as the correct reading (Fig. 1, b). Sometimes two consecutive lines on the vernier may appear to coincide with two on the scale ; the intermediate odd thousandth is then to be taken as the correct reading. Thus in371 METEOROLOGY this case had the third and fourth lines seemed to coincide with lines on the scale the reading would have been the mean of 29'686 and 29-688, i.e. 29-687.1 There is another form, the siphon barometer, which requires no correction for capacity or capillarity. It is a simple J-shaped tube : the longer leg closed above, and containing the Torricellian vacuum, represents the tube of the ordinary form, while the shorter and open leg corresponds to the cistern ; but the calibre being uniform throughout, the movement of the mercury, though in opposite directions, is equal in each leg, and the mercury in the longer having to support the atmosphere + the com- plementary or surplus mercury in the other, the height of the column is but half what it is in the cistern barometer. The zero is a point midway between the extremities, and a scale and vernier are attached to each leg, those on the longer graduated upwards, and those on the shorter or open one downwards. The atmo- spheric pressure is obtained by adding the two readings. With the recent improvements of a capillary connection between the legs, a lateral orifice instead of the open mouth of the shorter, and a Brunton's pipette to prevent the possibility of tlie vacuum being broken, it cannot get out of order, and is well adapted for the determina- tion of altitudes in mountain ascents or for use on board ship. Corrections.—The index error, if any, and the correction for capillarity, are marked for every half-inch on Kew certificates. Correction for temperature by which all readings are reduced to what they would be at zero (0° C. or 32° F.), is calculated from the coefficients of expansion of mercury and of brass, the material of the scale, by Schuhmacher's formula. This correction eliminates the disturbing iniiuence of tempera- ture on the materials of the instrument, but does not affect that on the atmosphere, in the pressure exerted by which it and humidity are the efficient factors. The results, as applied to barometers with brass scales extending from the cistern to the summit of the tube, are given in the following table for 27 and 30 inches, and for every 10° F. above freezing-point. Those for intermediate heights and temperatures may be found by proportional parts with approximate accuracy. Temp. 27 in. 30 in. Temp. -27 in. 30 in. 0 -t--069 + ■077 60 - -076 - -085 28 -F-OOl + 001 70 - -100 -•111 29 - -001 - -001 80 - -124 - -138 30 - -004 - -004 90 - -148 - -164 40 - -028 -•031 100 - -172 - -191 50 - -052 -•058 > The vernier being divided into 25 parts, together equal to 24 on the scale (viz. O'OS or twenty-fourths of an inch), each of the former is less than one of the latter by A, i-e. by .jV x 5-V = rs-ij = 0'002 of an inch. Correction for Altitvde.—The mercury falls approximately yttott inch = 0 001 inch for each foot above the sea-level, subject to a slight varia- tion dependent on temperature and humidity. The following table gives the addition in inches at 30 and 27 inches of pressure and 0°, 40°, and 80° F. for 10, 100, and 1000 feet of altitude. Intermediate heights are calculated propor- tionately. The Ordnance standard is the sea- level at mid-tide at Liverpool. Height in Feet. Temperature of External Air. 0° F. 40° F. 80° F. When th( 10 100 1000 ; Barometer at s •012 -123 1-208 ea-level reads 30 inches. •Oil 1 -010 •112 -103 M05 1-017 When th( 10 100 1000 3 Barometer at s •Oil •111 1^087 ea-level reails 27 -010 ■101 •994 inches. ■009 •093 •915 Aneroid barometers are extremely sensitive, and need no corrections for expansion, etc., but being very liable to get out of order from the delicacy of their construction, they require to be frequently compared with a standard baro- meter, and all observations of a permanent character should be thus verified. They are from their portability and sensitiveness espe- cially convenient for measuring heights in sur- veying and in ascending mountains, for which the differences between the readings in hundredths of an inch x 9 may be taken as the elevation in feet, since at ordinary temperatures O'l inch corre- sponds approximately to differences of 90 feet. A remarkable effect of variations of atmo- spheric pressure, of considerable interest from a medical point of view, is their influence on the movements of the ground air; or that contained between the particles of pervious soils, which not being immediately affected by changes in the temperature and humidity of the external atmosphere, remain for a time at a higher or lower density. The effect of a sudden fall of the barometer, i.e. of a rarefaction of the atmosphere, is an escape of the hitherto com- pressed ground air; and that of a rapid rise, on the other hand, is a descent of the atmo- spheric air into the earth, until the underground pressure or density and that above are equalised. This is the explanation of the phenomenon of the " blowing wells" at Northallerton, from which a strong outward current of air issues during and for some time after a fall of the barometer, and into which a like current rushes during and after a rise. Temperature The sources of terrestrial heat are two: (1) that still retained in the body of the globeMETEOROLOGY 372 itself; and (2) that received from the sun. The latter, being in the form of radiant heat, does not raise the temperature of space nor that of the atmosphere, especially in its higher and rarer strata, to any sensible degree, until by impinging on the surface of the earth the rays are converted into dark heat, which is absorbed, radiated, or conducted by matter in proportion to its conductivity, and, as regards air, its density. Vapour, even in the perfectly gaseous form, detracts from the diathermancy of the air, as does smoke, though its presence be scarcely perceptible to the eye. It is thus that some fruits fail to mature in cities, though they ripen well in the country, even where the temperature is lower. The effects of the unimpeded solar rays, warming the bodies on which they fall without sensibly raising the temperature of the inter- vening air, is well seen at the health resorts of the Engadine, where invalids bask in the sun- shine, reclining on couches, sheltered from the wind, and often dropping their furs or cloaks when the shade thermometer indicates tempera- tures below zero. The attempts made to secure, without the cold, the fullest benefits justly ascribed to the action of the solar rays on the unclothed body, in the so-called sun bath, though they fail to overcome the vis inertice of habit, are in the highest degree reasonable; and it is much to be wished that custom and fashion would sanction a style of dress—for which Greek and Roman art would furnish abundance of models—that while fulfilling the reasonable demands of simple decency, should permit the free access not only of air, but, during such time as the sun's rays have much power, of light to the surface of the body. The rosy or ruddy complexion of the healthy resident or sojourner in the country, the result of an active cutaneous circulation, and, unlike the browning that often accompanies it, owing- nothing to the deposit of pigment, is admired and envied by the pallid denizen of the city ; but if it be an indication of health and vigour, why should not the limbs and chest share it with the face and hands 1 The pallor bred in ill-lighted dwellings is not a merely superficial condition ; not only are such houses haunted with microbes, and are hot-beds of infectious and infective diseases, but there is no doubt that the want of air and light conduces to and intensifies disorders of nutrition, as rickets, which is especially an urban disease, and in Australia and South Africa is well-nigh unknown. Thermometry The thermometers required for the observa- tion of temperature under its different aspects are (1) the shade maximum, (2) shade minimum, (3) solar radiation, and (4) terrestrial radiation. They should all be self-registering, and it is well to have the bulbs carried beyond the frames, not, as in the ordinary instruments, enclosed in metal grids for protection. Shade thermometers are best mounted in a hut of stout boards with a ridge roof, and louvred sides open below for three or four feet from the ground, so as to permit of the free movement of air and to avoid the accumulation of heat. The box should be at least four or six feet square, with a door on the side least exposed to the sun. It should be put up where it will be open to the free movement of the air, but sheltered from the direct rays of the sun and from radiation from a wall. A good position is ten or twenty feet from the north side of a house. The solar radiation thermometer is designed to absorb and accumulate the radiant heat of the sun with the minimum of waste. Its bulb is blackened, and it is enclosed in a glass tube or cylinder exhausted of its air. It should be fixed to a post about four feet from the ground, where it will be fully exposed to the sun all day. The phenomena of terrestrial radiation are still imperfectly understood, but from time im- memorial the cold produced by radiation and evaporation has been employed in the neigh- bourhood of Calcutta for making ice; an open plot of ground being excavated to a depth of two feet, and filled to about six inches from the surface with loosely laid dry rice straw, which, a powerful radiator, serves also to inter- cept the heat given off from the eai'th. On this are spread shallow porous earthen pans of water, which if the sky be clear, the air dry, the temperatnre not above 50° F., and the wind not strong enough to keep the air from remaining sufficiently long in contact with the bed to acquire the requisite low temperature, freezes in the course of the night. With the dry north and north-west winds as much as a ton of ice may be obtained from each 240 square feet, but none is formed with the moister south and east winds even though the temperature be much lower. The terrestrial radiation or grass minimum thermometer should be mounted close to but not in contact with the ground, usually on a grass plot, though some prefer a black board on the earth. When snow lies it should be laid on it. Its purpose is to record the lowest temperature reached in the night close to the gi-ound from loss of heat by radiation from the earth, which on clear nights is often much lower than that of the air above, and is the cause of the deposition of dew and hoar frost. All thermometers should be graduated on the glass tube itself to tenths of a degree. The shade thermometer should be read at least twice or thrice daily, at 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., or 3 A.M., 3 P.M., and 10 p.m. The maximum and minimum thermometers are usually readMETEOROLOGY 373 early in the morning when the maximum is assumed to have been reached during the after- noon of the previous day. But it would be better that they should be read twice daily, since in winter, when the sun's heat is feeble, the maximum may be reached in the morning and the minimum in the afternoon, instead of the night, being determined rather by the winds and clouds than by the hour of day. In a few State-supported observatories con- tinuous graphic representations of the fluctua- tions of temperature are taken by means of photographic or other self-recording apparatus, but it is very difficult, if not impossible, to in- tegrate curves of such extreme complexity, and those obtained from 24-hourly observations are accurate enough for all practical purposes. From these it will be seen that in summer the highest mean daily temperature is found about 2 P.M., when the earth is still receiving heat faster than it is parting with it, and the coldest about an hour or two before sunrise, when the earth has been longest deprived of the solar rays ; for the same reason that July and January, not June and December, are the hottest and coldest months. But hourly observations cannot be made by private persons, and a fair estimate of the ther- mal character of a place or period may be drawn from the maximum and minimum as recorded irrespective of the hour by self-registering ther- mometers, and of the mean temperature by three daily observations at certain hours cor- rected by factors or coefficients. Sir J. Herschell gave the following formulae for observations: t, t', and i", taken at 7 a.m., 2 p.m., and 9 p.m. ; or at 8, 3, and 10 - 4 - ' ' 24 Mr. Scott prefers the Greenwich hours of 6, 2, and 10, corrected by empirically determined coefficients for each month in the year, while Mr. Marriott has done the same for the maxima and minima. Humidity Humidity is absolute or relative, the former term expressing the actual weight of aqueous vapour present in a given volume of air, and the latter the proportion that it bears to the possible maximum at the temperature for the time being, and is stated in degrees, that is, in percentages of the maximiim or saturation. Thus 4 grains of vapour in the cubic foot represent saturation, or 100 per cent at 50° F., but only 66 per cent at 62' F., and 50 per cent at 70° F. If the temperature sank rapidly to 42° F., at which 3 grains constitute saturation, 1 grain would be deposited as dew. The point at which the deposition begins, in this case 49° F., is called the dew-point. In other words the dew-point is the temperature at which the amount of vapour actually present would suffice for saturation, so that given the temperature at the time and the dew-point, the actual weight of vapour present, as well as the relative humidity, can be calculated. The following table gives the weight (in grains) of vapour in a cubic foot of saturated air at various temperatures from 14' to 88° F. From this it will he seen that at 80° F. the air is saturated by 11 grains, at 60° F. by 6 grains, and at 40° F. by 3 grains; and it is clear that if the humidity be 75 per cent at 60° F., dew will fall when the temperature sinks to 53° F., but if the humidity at 60° be only 50 per cent, dew cannot fall until a temperature of 41° is reached. With a day temperature of 60° and 75 per cent of humidity, the lightest frost will cause a heavy deposit of hoar frost; while with a temperature of 40° and humidity of 50 per cent, none will fall unless the night temperature sink to 24°. Hence the greater damage to orchards in clear nights following warm days in spring than when the weather is dull and cold. Weight (in Grains) of Water-Vapour in a Cubic Foot of Saturated Air''^ from 14° to 88° F. Tem- pera- ture, °F. Grains of Water in Cubic Foot of Air to Saturation. Tem- pera- ture, °r. Grains of Water in Cubic Foot of Air to Saturation. Tem- pera- ture, °F. Grains of Water in Cubic i'oot of Air to Saturation. 14 1-0 40 2-9 66 7-0 16 ri 42 3-1 68 7-5 18 1-2 44 3-3 70 8-0 20 1-3 46 3-6 72 8-5 2-2 1-4 48 3-8 74 9-1 24 1-5 50 4-1 76 9-7 26 1-7 52 4-4 78 10-3 28 1-8 54 4-7 80 11-0 30 2-0 56 5-0 82 11-7 32 2-1 58 5-4 84 12-4 34 2-3 60 5-8 86 13-3 36 2-5 62 6-2 88 14-0 38 2-7 64 6-6 The sensations of damp and dryness depend on the degrees of saturation or relative humidity, and there may be far more aqueous vapour in the air on a hot "dry" day in summer than on a cold " damp" day in winter. Evaporation depends indirectly only on temperature, but directly on humidity, being most active when the air is 7-elatively driest. It is not arrested even by freezing taking place from the surface of ice no less than of water, if the air be, as it often is during prolonged frosts, relatively dry, while in warm rainy weather it may be very small, and it ceases entirely when saturation is reached. Humidity and evaporation are among the most important factors in the influence of climate and weather on health, and it is well to bear in mind that there is no necessary relation between the rainfall and the humidity of a place, When the air is thus saturated, the readings of the wet and dry bulb thermometers are the same ; humidity- less than 100 per cent is indicated by the lower reading of the wet bulb.METEOROLOGY 374 the former being determined by geographical, orographic, and local physical conditions, the altitude and contour of the land, the proximity of the sea to mountain ranges, etc., while the humidity and evaporation depend largely on the nature of the soil, whether this be retentive of Temperate CllmnteB. Ae^am Madras (Ctt^). 1. 2. 3. 4 S E < < E z 3 a :> o z Q 5 z < a. < Q. (f. O 3. O Z Z 4 If a. 1 z iJULr d < a > z 20 10 5 1 J 1 s f 1 ] 1 *\ t Fig. 3. moisture or, on the other hand, either deep and pervious, or rocky and wholly impervious to water. The last, if elevated, may combine heavy rainfalls with a very low degree of humidity, and there are regions, as parts of Sind, practically rainless, where the air is never far removed from saturation, though such are not found in European countries. Hygrometry The only hygrometer in common use is the combination of wet and dry bulb thermometers, the latter giving the actual temperature of the air, and the former that of evaporation, the dew-point being calculated from the difference between their respective readings by means of a series of empirical factors worked out by Mr. Glaisher. The instrument is placed in the shade, four feet above the ground, freely exposed to the wind, but protected from the radiant heat of walls, etc. The wet blub is covered with muslin kept moist by twisting round it a skein of cotton, previously boiled in a solution of carbonate of soda, and afterwards in ether, to remove all traces of fat, the other end of the cotton being immersed in a vessel of water. The cotton should be changed every fortnight, and the water should be rain or distilled. When the water freezes and the siphon action is arrested the muslin should be moistened with a sponge or brush, and allowed to freeze again before the observation is made; but should the temperature have meanwhile risen above the freezing-point, the muslin, etc. should be thawed with warm water, and the reading delayed until it has cooled down to the true temperature. When the air is saturated the ' readings of the two thermometers will be the same, and indicate the dew-point, otherwise that of the wet bulb will always be the lower, though above the dew-point so long as the air temperature is above freezing. When this is lower, and the wet bulb is, as it should be, encased in ice, it will read 32° F. however low the dry one may have sunk. Use of Glaisher's Tables Multiply the difference between the readings of the two thermometers by the factor (Table B) opposite that of the dry bulb, and deduct the product from the latter; the remainder will give the dew-point. Then finding (Table A) the weight of vapour corresponding to the dew- point, and therefore actually present, and that which at the actual temperature would consti- tute saturation, the proportion that the former bears to the latter will be the degree of humidity for the time being. Thus, e.g., the dry bulb reading 67° F. and the wet 62° F. gives the difference of 5° F. The factor in Table B opposite 67° F. is 1-8, which x5 = 9, and 67°-9° = 58° F. = the dew-point. Now A.—Table of Tensions and Deiv-Foints, or Weight of Vapour constituting Saturation at every Degree, from 0° to 100° F. Tem- pera- ture, °F. Weight in Grains of a Cubic Foot of Vapour. Tem- pera- ture, °F. Weight in Grains of a Cubic Foot of Vapour. Tem- pera- ture, °F. Weight in Grains of a Cubic Foot of Vapour. 0 0-55 34 2-30 68 7-51 1 0-57 35 2-39 69 7-76 2 0-59 36 2-48 70 8-01 3 0-62 37 2-57 71 8-27 4 0-65 38 2-66 72 8-54 5 0-68 39 2-76 73 8-82 6 0-71 40 2-86 74 9-10 7 0-74 41 2-97 75 9-39 8 0-77 42 3-08 76 9-69 9 0-80 43 3 20 77 9-99 10 0-84 44 3-32 78 10-31 11 0-88 45 3-44 79 10-64 12 0-92 46 3-56 80 10-98 13 0-96 47 3-69 81 11-32 14 1-00 48 3-82 82 11-67 15 1-04 49 3-96 83 12-03 16 1-09 50 4-10 84 12-40 17 1-14 51 4'24 85 12-78 18 1-19 52 4-39 86 13-17 19 1-24 53 4-55 87 13-57 20 1-30 54 4-71 88 13-98 21 1-36 55 4-87 89 14-41 22 1-42 56 5-04 90 14-85 23 1 48 57 5-21 91 15-29 24 l-f)4 58 5-39 92 15-74 25 1-61 59 5-58 93 16-21 26 1-68 60 5-77 94 16-69 27 1-75 61 5-97 95 17-18 28 1-82 62 6-17 96 17-68 29 1-89 63 6-38 97 18-20 30 1-97 64 6-59 98 18-73 31 2-05 65 6-81 99 19-28 32 2-13 66 7'04 100 19-84 33 2-21 67 7-27375 METEOROLOGY B.—Glaisher's Factors. TTon^lW flip "Pi'n ° F. Fuctor. ° F. Factor, duct of which of Dry Bulb. into the Differ- ence between the Readings of the Dry and Wet Bulb 36 37 2-50 2-42 69 70 1-78 1-77 ° F Thermometer de- 38 2-36 71 1-76 ducted from the 39 2-32 72 175 former gives the Dew-Point 40 2-29 73 174 41 2-26 74 173 172 42 2-23 75 10 8-78 43 2-20 76 171 11 8-78 44 218 77 170 12 8-78 45 2-16 78 1-69 13 8-77 46 2-14 79 1-69 14 8-76 47 2-12 80 1-68 15 8-75 48 2-10 81 1-68 16 8-70 49 2-08 82 1-67 17 8-62 50 2-06 83 1-67 18 8-50 51 2-04 84 1-66 19 8-34 52 2-02 85 1-65 20 8 14 53 2-00 86 1-65 21 7 88 54 1-98 87 1-64 22 7'60 55 1-96 88 1-64 23 7 28 56 1-94 89 1-63 24 6-92 57 1-92 90 1-63 25 6-53 58 1-90 91 1-62 26 6-08 59 1-89 92 1-62 27 5-61 60 1-88 93 1-61 28 5-12 61 1-87 94 1-60 29 4-63 62 1-86 95 1-60 30 4-15 63 1-85 96 1-59 31 3-70 64 1-83 97 1-59 32 3-32 65 1-82 98 1-58 33 3-01 66 1-81 99 1-58 34 2-77 67 1-80 100 1-57 35 2-60 68 1-79 the weight of the vapour per cubic foot con- stituting saturation is given in Table A as 5'39 grains at 58° F., and 7'27 grains at 67° F., therefore the present degree of humidity is 5 39 X j-QQ_o-74 Qj. 74 Qgnt of saturation 7-27 ^ at 67° F.; or, as we say, 74° of humidity. The two tables preceding give (A) the weight of a cubic foot of vapour at each degree Fahrenheit from 0° to 100°, or the weight that constitutes saturation, the temperature being the dew-point at 30 inches of barometric pressure, and (B) Glaisher's factors for all temperatures from 0° to 100° F. Mr. Glaisher has constructed also a series of elaborate and highly accurate tables, giving the expansion of dry air by heat, the elastic force of aqueous vapour in inches of mercury, the expansion of a volume of dry air when satu- rated with vapour, and the weights of a cubic foot of dry air, of vapour, and of saturated air, all calculated for the pressure of 30 inches of mercury, and for each degree Fahrenheit from 0° to 10(/, together with empirical factors for correction of results at great altitudes, obtained by observations made during his balloon ascents. These, with full instructions for the use of the general tables, and the additions and corrections to be made in the results under certain circum- stances, as when the differences between the readings of the wet and dry bulbs are consider- able, are published by Taylor & Francis of Fleet Street, London, price 2s. 6d., and are indispens- able to the regular observer, though the shorter tables given here will be sufficient when extreme accuracy is not necessary. Dew and Frost—Fog and Mist Evaporation, in nature, depends less on the temperature of the air than on its relative humidity and consequent capacity for taking up more moisture; it is therefore aided by winds which carry off the air as it tends towards saturation, and replace it by drier. Evaporation lowers the temperature of the air and of the surface soil, since all matters in passing from the solid to the liquid, or from this to the gaseous state, abstract heat from their surroundings, which they give off during the reverse transition. Thus a heavy fall of snow is attended by a perceptible rise of tem- perature, and the " raw " cold that accompanies a thaw is well known. Thus, too, is produced the refreshing coolness that follows a shower, or the use of the water-cart or hose in hot dry weather; and an east wind feels colder than another of the same temperature, and favours more the formation of ice, because its greater dryness increases evaporation from the exposed surfaces of the body and from sheets of water. Deiv is the precipitated vapour from the lowest stratum of the air chilled by the rapid radiation from the earth under a clear sky. It is not formed when radiation is checked by overhanging clouds, or a strong wind maintains a constant renewal of the air. Hoar frost is not frozen dew, but ice deposited under like conditions, save as regards temperature, just as snow is not rain frozen in its fall, but the form assumed by cloud vapour precipitated at low temperatures. Fog and Mist.—The formation of fog, unlike that of dew, is favoured by a moderate move- ment of the air, and indirectly by irregularity of the surface of a district. It results from the rapid cooling of large masses of air below their dew-points, the excess of vapour being con- densed, but not precipitated as rain or snow. Fog is therefore formed by the same causes as, when intensified, produce rain : (1) the mingling of volumes of warm humid air and cold dry air (provided the temperature of the mixture be below its dew-point); (2) the sudden chilling of vapour-laden air when it (a) impinges on cold hill-tops or cliffs, or {h) passes over land cooled by evaporation, as wet clay soils, or (c) the surface of lakes (provided the water be colder than the moving air). Mists formed over run- ning streams in frosty weather are, however, due to the condensation of the vapour rising from the warmer water, and those iu valleys and over damp meadows are caused in many instances by the colder, and therefore heavier376 METEOROLOGY Difference between the dry and wet bulb. »-s=^ - 0 1 ^ 1 4 7 8 1 9 1 101 11 1 12 1 13 1 15 Tom the : Relative humidity. Saturation = 100. 85 1001 95 90 85 80 70 73 68 64 61 58 55 52 49 46 1 43 84 100 95 90 85 80 76 73 68 64 60 57 54 51 48 45 43 83 100 95 90 85 80 76 73 68 64 eo 57 54 51 48 45 42 82 lUO 95 90 85 80 76 73 68 64 60 67 54 51 48 45 42 81 100 95 90 85 80 76 72 68 64 60 56 53 51 47 44 41 80 100 95 90 85 80 75 72 67 63 59 56 53 50 47 44 41 79 100 95 90 85 80 75 72 67 63 59 56 63 50 47 44 41 78 100 94 89 84 79 75 72 67 63 59 66 53 50 47 44 41 77 100 94 89 84 79 75 72 67 63 59 66 63 50 47 44 41 76 100 94 89 84 79 75 71 67 63 59 55 52 49 46 43 40 75 100 94 89 84 79 74 71 66 62 58 55 52 49 4G 43 40 74 100 94 89 84 79 74 71 66 62 58 66 52 48 45 43 40 73 100 94 89 84 79 74 70 66 62 58 54 51 48 45 42 40 72 100 94 89 84 79 74 70 65 61 57 54 51 48 45 42 39 71 100 94 88 83 78 73 70 65 61 57 53 50 47 44 41 38 70 100 94 88 83 78 73 69 65 61 57 53 50 47 44 41 38 69 100 04 88 83 78 73 69 64 60 56 53 60 47 44 41 38 68 100 94 88 83 78 73 69 64 60 56 52 49 46 43 40 37 67 100 94 88 83 78 73 69 64 60 66 52 49 46 43 40 37 66 100 94 88 83 78 73 69 64 60 56 52 48 45 42 40 37 65 100 94 88 83 78 73 68 63 59 55 51 48 45 42 ■ 39 36 64 100 94 88 82 77 72 68 63 59 55 51 48 44 42 39 36 63 100 94' 83 82 77 72 68 63 59 55 61 47 44 41 38 35 62 100 94 88 82 77 72 68 62 58 56 50 47 44 41 38 35 61 100 94 88 82 77 72 67 62 58 64 50 47 44 41 38 85 60 100 04 83 82 76 71 67 62 68 54 50 46 43 40 37 34 59 100 94 8.S 82 76 71 67 61 57 63 49 46 43 40 37 34 53 100 93 87 81 76 71 66 61 57 63 49 45 43 40 37 34 67 100 93 37 81 75 70 66 61 57 53 49 45 42 39 36 33 66 100 93 37 81 75 70 66 60 56 52 48 44 41 38 35 32 65 100 93 S7 81 75 70 65 60 66 62 48 44 41 38 35 32 64 100 93 86 80 74 69 64 69 55 51 47 43 40 37 34 31 53 100 93 86 80 74 69 64 59 65 51 47 43 39 36 33 30 62 100 93 86 80 74 09 64 59 54 60 46 42 39 36 33 30 51 100 93 86 80 74 68 63 68 54 60 46 42 38 35 32 29 60 100 93 85 80 74 68 68 58 64 49 45 41 37 34 31 29 49 100 93 86 79 73 67 62 57 63 49 46 41 37 34 31 28 48 100 93 86 79 73 67 62 57 52 48 44 40 36 33 30 47 100 93 86 79 73 6T 61 66 51 47 43 39 36 33 30 46 100 93 86 79 78 67 61 56 51 47 43 39 36 32 29 45 100 92 85 78 72 66 60 55 50 46 42 38 34 31 28 44 ICO 9£ 85 78 71 65 59 54 49 46 41 37 34 31 28 48 100 92 85 78 71 65 69 64 49 45 41 37 34 31 28 42 100 92 85 78 71 64 58 54 49 44 40 36 33 30 27 41 100 92 85 77 70 64 58 53 48 43 39 35 31 28 40 100 92 85 77 69 63 57 52 47 42 88 35 31 39 100 92 84 77 69 63 57 51 46 42 38 34 38 100 91 83 75 68 62 56 50 45 41 37 37 100 91 83 75 CS 61 1 55 49 44 39 36 100 • 91 82 74 67 59 53 47 42 35 lOO 90 80 72 34 100 89 79 72 33 IOC 83 78 70 32 100' 87 75 Fig. 4. air from the higher lands around flowing down and condensing the vapour in the warmer air in the valley, which, if there be little or no wind, may gradually assume the appearance of a lake of white mist. Though fog and mist, which differ only in the size of the coalescing drops of water, may, like dew, saturate the clothing of persons exposed to them, they are by no means necessarily indicative of damp- ness of site. No such suspicion attaches to those capping the summits of hills and elevated moorland of scantily covered rock, or veiling the cliffs and headlands of the western and southern coasts, nor to fogs to which the heights along the course of rivers are exposed, even more it may be than the low lands beneath ; but the case is totally different when they mark the sites of ponds and water-courses that have disappeared through drainage, or haunt low-lying lands where the ground- water is near the surface. Clouds consist of condensed vapour identical with fog or mist, but in the highest regions of the atmosphere they are often composed of prismatic crystals and spiculfe of ice. The lowest levels at which they float range from about 2500 feet in these islands to 10,000 feet in the Tropics. Howard's classification of clouds is adopted universally— A, Cirrus A + B, Cirro-stratus. B, Stratus A-f-C, Cirro-cumulus. C, Cumulus B + C, Cumulo-stratus. A -t- B -I- C, Curaulo-cirro-stratus or nimbus. Cirrus. — Feathery, streaky clouds at the very highest altitudes, probably com- posed of ice particles, moving slowly and usually in a direction opposite to that of the lower air. Generally a sign of wind and the forecast of a change of weather. Cirro-stratus, formed by the condensation of cirrus, appears as a network or as " ribs " stretching across from the horizon on one side to that on the other, but gradually coalescing as it sinks, it ultimately spreads over the whole sky of a uniform density. It indicates the approach of rain. Cirro-cumulus, also a high cloud, though at a somewhat lower level, is more flocculent and humpy, the rounded masses being often detached. It is popularly known as the "mackerel sky." Stratus is a cloud defined by Howard as "a widely - extended continuous horizontal sheet, increasing from below upwards." It is fairly uniform in thickness and hue. Howard called it "ground fog," which it is, lifted to a higher level. It is a fine-weather cloud, appearing in the evening and morning,METEOROLOGY 377 to vanish before the warmth of the sun. Another cloud, of no great altitude and mostly seen in fine weather, is the cumulus, resulting from the rapid condensation of moist air on rising to cooler strata of the atmosphere. It is massive, opaque, and with sharply - defined outlines, rounded above or resembling a range of mountain-peaks, white, and popularly compared to wool-packs when the sun shines on it, but when it conceals the sun it is dark often with gold or silver margins. Its base is almost always flat or horizontal, marking a stratum of warmer air that takes up the condensed vapour. Cumulo-stratus is a common form of cloud, often covering great part of the sky. It is a mixture of the three primary forms, and marks a transition to the nimbus or rain cloud; the flat base and alternate strata of darker and lighter hue indicate alternations of warmer and colder air. It soon passes into the cirro- cumulo-stratus, in which all three primary forms are blended, and is pre-eminently the cloud of rain and storm. When approaching from the horizon the upper border may be sharply out- lined, while rain is seen falling from the under; but when overhead, all definition and distinctions are lost in the rain, into which the under-surface passes. Rain and Snow Rain is the result of the sudden condensation of vapour, or, more correctly, of finely divided particles of water, contained in masses of the most certain in its result, provided orAy the essential condition of such a warm humid atmosphere, as is rarely met with in this climate, be present. It is, however, in constant operation in the Tropics, where it is the chief, often the sole cause of the copious rainfall in insular and low-lying regions. The second is that by which most of the rain in the temperate zones is produced. In Europe and America alike the heaviest rainfall is found on the western coasts, fanned by the moist and warm south-western gales from over the oceans; and since these shores are in Great Britain, Scandinavia, and North America the more mountainous, the warm vapour-laden air is forced upwards, when the first of these causes, the cold of the higher zones of the atmosphere, is superadded to the second, which alone would scarcely suffice to produce the heavy downpours so frequently observed in such districts, while the latent heat set free in the condensation of the vapour tends to maintain the mildness of the winter, as the amount of evaporation does to moderate the heat of summer. The third class is, as Dr. Hann has demonstrated, far less efficient than was formerly imagined.^ The average rainfall in England and Wales is 33-76 inches, in Scotland 46-56, and in Ireland 38-54. But while in the eastern counties of England it is only 25 inches, in the hilly or mountainous aud moorland districts of Devon, Cornwall, Wales, the Pennine range, and Cumberland, it varies from 40 to 80 inches. Place. Subsoil. Mean Winter Tem- perature in deg. F. Mean Summer Tem- perature in deg. ¥. Mean Daily Range in deg. F. Mean Annual Kainfall in Inches. Rainy Days. Humidity per cent. Regent's Park London clay 41-6 56-9 13-8 25-16 164 80 Margate Chalk .... 41-8 56-4 10-9 -22-98 165 81 Lowestoft Gravel .... 40-8 54-8 11-4 24-09 173 83 Cromer. Cragland blue clay 40-6 55-4 12-0 27-73 154 85 Scarborough . Loam on clay 40-8 54-1 10-0 26-68 195 83 Hastings Sand on sandstone 42-2 57-0 11-8 29-26 137 82 Eastbourne . West-end chalk, east loam . 42-2 56-2 29-53 165 Brighton West-end clay, east chalk . 42-5 57-1 11-2 30-43 163 78 Southsea Bagshot sand and clay 42-7 55-2 13-8 26-39 173 82 Ventnor Lower greensand 44-2 57-7 10-5 28-33 167 80 Wej'mouth . Sand, shingle clay 43-5 56-8 10-3 27 61 162 81 Teignmouth . Marl, in parts sand . 43-8 57-0 12-4 32-28 169 82 Torquay Limestone.... 43-5 55-9 10-8 31-72 177 80 Falmouth Slate on quartz . 44-9 57-0 9-5 43-49 204 81 Ilfracombe . Shales on sandstone , 44-9 57-0 8-4 31-53 191 85 Llandudno . Limestone .... 42-7 55-2 10-1 27-52 175 79 Guernsey Granite .... 45 5 57-6 9-1 33-28 192 85 warmer air in the form of fog or cloud, when these come in contact with colder air or impinge on the cold summits of mountains. There are three ways in which this may occur: (1) the ascent of a current of damp air into the higher regions of the atmosphere, (2) the contact of warm damp air with the colder earth of hills and mountain ranges, and (3) the mixture of masses of hot and cold air. The first is perhaps ' He calculated that tlie admixture of equal volumes of saturated air at 77° F. and 32° F., containing re- spectively 10 0 and 2*1 grams of vapour in the cubic foot, would give a mean temperature of 58-7° F., not 54-5°, owing to the liberation of 0-093 units of heat in the condensation of 1-5 grams of vapour in the cubic foot, of which 0-9 grams would be taken up again, leaving only 0-6 grams to be thrown down, as a rainfall from a column 1000 feet high of not more than 0 048 inch; and such a difference as 77° F. and 32° F. is itself in the highest degree improbable.METEOROLOGY 378 in some localities exceeding 100. The like difference is observed between the eastern and western counties and shores of Scotland, and, though to a less extent, in Ireland. The heaviest rainfalls in England and Wales are in the Lake district, arovuid Snowdon, and over a small area in Carmarthen, and in Scotland in the Isle of Skye and on the opposite main- land from Ben Nevis to Loch Linnhe. The extremes for the whole island are 15 inches at Thetford in Suffolk, and 145 at Seathwaite in Cumberland. But there are marked differ- ences at the same places in different years: as at Plymouth, where the extremes hitherto recorded have been 45 and 100, and at Exeter 30 and 90; while, owing to local orographical conditions, there are spots in the areas of the heaviest rainfall where the mean rivals that of the lowest, e.g. at Sidmouth in Devonshire it is 32, and at Cockermouth in Cumberland only 22, though but a few miles distant from Seathwaite where the mean is 145 inches, and the highest in the United Kingdom. There is no relation between the rainfall and the humidity of the air, the latter depending on the nature of the soil, as may be seen in the preceding table, giving the temperatui'e, rainfall, number of rainy days, humidity, and nature of the soil at a number of English health resorts. The independence of rainfall and humidity is well illustrated by the contrast presented by Falmouth and Cromer, the rain- fall at the former being 60 per cent greater, but the humidity 5 per cent less than at the latter. These averages are taken from the records of the Meteorological Society from 1882 to 1888 inclusive, except for Brighton, where they have been contributed by a local observer during the years 1879 to 1892. The seasonal distribution of the rainfall in the eastern and western counties of England and in London is shown below :— Order of Months in the East of England. Average Rainfall in Inches 1813 to 1872. Order of Months in the Vilest of England. England East. London (slightly different). England Vilest. August November October July September May June January December February April March 2-84 2-83 271 2-.57 2-55 2'11 1-95 1-89 1-60 1-59 1-40 1-40 2-26 2-28 274 2-32 2-35 2-07 2-01 1-91 1-93 1-52 1-66 1-52 5-25 4-97 4-42 3-93 3-72 3-54 3-46 2-86 2-84 2-84 2-59 2-59 November October December August January September July Febi'uary r March \ \ June / \ April 1 I May / 25-52 24-5,5 43-03 Measurement op Rainfall Rain Gauge.—The best form is that known as the Snowdon gauge, which consists of a glass funnel, having a diameter of 8 inches, and there- fore an area of 50 square inches, let into a deep copper cylindrical vessel, having a rim inside just below its upper margin on which the funnel may rest. Within this is a glass cylinder, into which the tube of the funnel dips, provided with a lip for convenience in emptying it. To retain snow which might be blown out of the funnel a second cylinder of copper, 8 inches in diameter, and open at both ends, is mounted on the rim of the other, so as to form a wall several inches high around it. It should have a flange on its lower end to steady it. The water or the melted snow is, when collected, once a day or oftener in hot weather, measured in an accu- rately graduated glass, unless the receiver itself be graduated for the purpose. But the narrower the measuring glass the more accurate will be the estimation. Thus, if the diameter of the measure be 2^ inches its area will be 5 square inches or one-tenth that of the funnel, and each inch and tenth of an inch on it will represent a depth of 0-1 inch and 0-01 inch of rain. The gauge should be fixed at a height of 1 to 4 feet from the ground in an open situation, free from all eddies, with no building or other object sub- tending an angle of 20°. Theoretically the ele- vation should make no difference, but in practice it is found that a gauge placed on a terrace or a roof shows a less amount of rain owing to the up-current of air produced by the deflection of the wind impinging on the face of the wall. This is the explanation of the apparently lesser rainfall on roofs and terraces than on the ground below ; but when the difference of eleva- tion amounts to hundreds or thousands of feet the phenomenon is real, for cooler raindrops or snow, in passing through warmer, nearly satu- rated strata, or those in which the vapour is already condensed as cloud or fog, condense the gaseous and precipitate the condensed moisture, increasing rapidly in bulk as they fall. In London and the eastern counties a fall of 1 inch in the twenty-four hours is rarely ex- ceeded, though 3-12, 3-5, and 4-6 inches have been collected within a few hours on some oc- casions, and 4-3 and 5-3 in the western shores. The bulk of snow depends on the size and grouping of the crystals, but roughly a foot of snow corresponds to an inch of rain. Alleged falls of 4 or 6 feet are really the effects of drifting. The question of the origin and formation of hail, whether of the true and hard or the soft kind, is one that has never been satisfactorily solved. Winds Though we can no longer assent to the proposition that "the wind bloweth where379 METEOROLOGY it listeth," we are not yet in a position to determine, much less to predict, " whence it Cometh and whither it goeth," but we can watch, and to some extent anticipate its pro- gress. Winds are the effects of disturbances of equilibrium, constantly proceeding in the freely mobile atmosphere; the causes of these dis- turbances being unequal densities due to un- equal distribution of temperature and vapour, aided by physical and other factors, and are general or local in their action. Among the general are the permanently higher temperature of the equatorial zone and the cold of the polar regions, the annual alternation of summer and winter in the northern and southern hemi- spheres due to the obliquity of the earth's axis to the plane of its orbit, and consequently the greater or less angle of incidence of the sun's rays whereby one hemisphere is always warmer or colder than the other, and the diurnal cycle of day and night due to the rotation of the globe on its axis, exposing successive longi- tudinal segments of its surface from west to east to the influence of the solar rays, the effect of which in the diurnal range of temperature is more marked in that hemisphere which is for the time being the warmer; while among the local conditions are the distribution of land and water, with their imequal capacity for absorption and radiation of heat, and the evaporation from the ocean, tending by the addition of aqueous vapour to lower the density and pressure of the atmosphere; the influence of warm and cold ocean currents which, having a like origin with those of the atmosphere, are deflected in all directions by the shores of the continents, and a similar, though less absolute, obstacle presented to atmospheric currents by mountain ranges, which deflect them to some extent, but exert a more powerful action in cooling them and precipitating their moisture as they impinge on their summits. The velocity of the rotation of the globe being greatest at the equator and diminishing towards either pole, the upper and lower perpetual currents from the equator to the poles, and from the poles to the equator, are deflected towards the south-west or north-east as they pass from zones of greater velocity to those of lesser, or vice versa; but these, as well as the secondary and directly dependent phenomena of trade winds and monsoons, belong rather to the field of physical geography than to the apparently fortuitous and variable phenomena of weather and climate with which we are concerned, and in which local conditions play so important a part. In the rotation of the globe on its axis, the atmosphere, being less coherent than the earth, tends to lag behind ; consequently in the northern hemisphere winds blowing from the north deviate towards the west and assume a north-easterly direction, while southerly winds become south-west. In the southern hemisphere the resultant of these forces will obviously be the converse of this, and the direction of the wind round an area of low pressure, which in the northern hemisphere is the reverse of that of the hands of a watch, will in the southern be with them, and that round one of higher will be with the hands in the northern, and against them in the southern hemisphere ; the definition of cyclones and anticyclones commonly given and based on the order in the countries of Europe and North America, being reversed in this particular in those south of the equatorial zone. Hence Buys Ballot's law, which may be shortly stated thus :— "Stand with your back to the wind—then in the northern hemisphere the barometer will be lower on your left, and in the southern on your right." Which is as true of mean pressure and winds, as it is of the temporary phenomena of storms at sea for which the Dutch professor propounded it. The general complex of remoter consequences of the factors already enumerated is manifested in the vertical rotation of the atmosphere over limited areas, the vortices, or, more accurately, helices and antihelices travelling in these latitudes from west to east, with a tendency, for the reasons already given, to deviate in a north-easterly direction. They are of two kinds, known as cyclones and anticyclones, the baro- metric pressure in the cyclone being lowest in the centre and rising rapidly towards the cir- cumference. The area covered is relatively small; the movement of the air is centripetal and helicoidal, and from right to left, or, as it is generally expressed, in a direction opposite to that of the hands of a watch, its velocity being directly proportioned to the abruptness of the transition from low to high pressure, or, as it is called, borrowing a term from engineering, the steepness of the gradient. The pressure being lowest in the centre, cyclones are often spoken of as "depressions." In the anticyclone all these conditions are reversed; the atmospheric pressure is highest in the centre, the outward gradient gentle, the area covei-ed large, the movement of the air centrifugal, antihelicoidal, and from right to left, or in the same direction as the hands of a watch, while it is, owing to the lesser gradient, marked by a less velocity than that in the cyclone, which in the popular mind is generally associated with the notion of storms. When the " depression " or centre of a cyclone passes by to the north of any place the wind "veers," that is, changes as from S.E. through S.W.W., but if it pass by on the south the wind "backs," or changes in the opposite order. ■ The cyclone is characterised by high winds, rapid change, and more or less cloud and rain, lowering the temperature in summer, but raising it in winter. The anticyclone, on the other380 METEOROLOGY hand, moves slowly, and may even remain stationary for days, or sometimes weeks; it is attended by calm, clear weather, therefore, hot and dry in summer, but dry cold and frosty in winter; there may, however, be fogs, mostly on its border during cold weather. Though neither is restricted to any season, cyclones occur with greater frequency and severity between November and March, the period of storms, those in the summer being as a rule of less intensity, that is, the velocity of the wind is generally less in summer than in winter. Equinoctial gales are, as the records of the meteorological office prove, creations of the popular imagination, in northern Europe at any rate. The stormy season closes indeed with March, but rarely sets in before November, while, as every seaman knows, the maximum of frequency and severity is maintained between Christmas and February. The helicoidal rather than cycloidal move- ment of the air in these vortices explains the fact that winds, when of moderate velocity, exhibit the character as regards temperature and humidity of the regions whence they appear to, and really do come; and the apparent paradox that in cyclones of steep gradient there often seems to be little or no relation between the quarter whence they appear to blow and the character usually associated therewith, their apparent direction being, in fact, an accident of their near approach to a cycloid, and of the part of their orbit encountered at the par- ticular time and place. Such cyclones approxi- mate to the extreme type with the minimum of area, and maximum of gradient and velocity known as a whirlwind, or, in the Tropics, a typhoon. The countries of western Europe are at a disadvantage in being unable to watch the approach of cyclones, until they are already upon them, whereas those of central and eastern Europe and the eastern States of America receive intimation of coming storms from the chains of meteorological stations to the west for many hundreds or thousands of miles. From the information received from these stations the areas covered by cyclones or anti- cyclones at any given hour are mapped out at the national meteorological offices by concentric series of isobars, the atmospheric pressure, the direction and velocity of the winds, and the readings of the thermometer being indicated on the maps, and other facts as rain, fog, etc. stated below, as may be seen daily in the Times. Anemometry Directioti. — The vane, a simple rectangle, must be put up where it will be unaffected by eddies, whether horizontal or oblique, and ad- justed to the true meridian, for the needle at the present time points west of the north, 19° in the extreme S.E. of England, to 25° in the N.W. of Ireland, the lines of equal declination running N.N.E. and S.S.W. It is sufficient to register the wind under the eight-quarters and half-quarters, N., N.E., E., S.E., S., S.W., W. and N.W., but any change during the day must be noted. Pressure is closely connected with the velocity, but cannot be inferred from it as recorded by the anemometer, since that instrument indicates only the mean of the period under observation, and the destruction wrought by winds is the result of sudden gusts or blasts during which, it may be for minutes only, much higher velocities and pressures are attained. The anemometers of Osier and of Cator indicate and record the pressure exerted by the wind on plates by tracings on a drum. Gator's is worked by levers. Osier's by springs, which are more liable to be deteriorated by exposure. The readings, moreover, vary with the size of the plates, for which the customary square foot is probably insufficient. Velocity/.—Dr. Robinson's and Casella's are most used. In the former the wind is received on four cups which work a dial; the larger the cups the more correct the readings. It was formei'ly the practice to assume that the register itidicated one-third of the true velocity, but Professor Stokes found with Robinson's anemometer, as used by the Royal Meteoro- logical Society, having cups 9 inches in diameter, on arms 2 feet long, the factor to be 2'4. Sir F. James gives the formula, P = i;2x0-005 for calculating the pressure from the velocity, v being the velocity in miles per hour, and P the pressure in lbs. per square foot, the pressure varying as the square of the velocity. Beaufort's scale used in the Royal Navy is adopted by the Meteorological Office and Schott's, which differs chiefly in the lower velocities, is employed by the Germans and Scandinavians. Velocity/ of Wirid according to Beaufort and Schott. Force. Velocity in Miles per Hour. Beaufort. 10 11 12 Calm Light air Light breeze Gentle ,, Moderate ,, Fresh Strong ,, Moderate gale Fresh ,, Strong ,, Whole Storm Hurricane 13 18 23 28 34 40 48 56 65 75 90 Schott. 0 1 4 10 17 24 32 40 48 56 67 82 100 1 b S I a But for observations on land, unfettered by nautical terms and symbolic numbers, the tableMETEOROLOGY 381 following will be preferable, and it is believed more accurate:— Velocity and Pressure of Wind. Miles per Hour. Feet per Minute. Feet per Second. Pressure (direct) in lbs. per Square Foot. Description. 1 1 3 i / o 264 i 4/ 4-4 -044 / Hardly perceptible. Just perceptible. A 4 5 440 D Of 7-33 .A7Q \ -123 1 Gentle breeze. 10 15 880 1329 14-67 22- ■492 \ 1-107 / L iudbdiLLL UmcZiC. 20 25 1760 2200 29-3 36'6 1-968 \ 3-075 j Brisk gale. 30 35 2640 3080 44- 51-3 4-428 ( 6-027 i High mnd. 40 45 3520 3960 58-6 66- 7-872 t 9-963 J Very high wind. 50 4400 73-3 12-300 Storm. 60 70 5280 6160 88- 102-7 17-712 1 24 108 / Great storm. 80 100 7040 8800 117-3 146-6 31-4881 49-200 J Hurricane. Weather Charts In the compilation of weather maps the direction of the winds is indicated by arrows, and the force by the number of pinnae from 1 to 5 : Symbol. Force. Velocity. Miles per Hour. Metres per Second. > > 1, 2 0 to 9-0 0 to 4-0 > 5- 3, 4 9-1 to 22-5 4-1 to 100 > -> 5- 5, 6 •6 to 40 5 10-1 to 18-0 > -> > 7, 8 40-6 to 67 -5 18-1 to 30-0 -> -» > 9, 10 67 -6 and upwards 30-1 and over The representation of the mean velocities and directions of prevailing winds is very unsatis- factory. Wind roses are perhaps the best and simplest; the percentages of the observed direc- tions being indicated by the relative length of the rays in a diagram of the compass, and the mean velocity or force (pressure) of each shown by a number at the extremity of the ray. The rays should be divided into ten equal segments by a series of concentric 5 per cent circles, leaving the intermediate units only to be deter- mined by measurement or by the eye. (See Fig. 5, p. 61.) Influence of Meteorological Conditions ON Health It was one of the many apophthegms of the great Max von Pettenkofer, at once wise and witty, that " we do not leave home for change of air, but for change of soil" and it is absolutely true. The air, as air, is in perpetual flux, but the climate, in the local and more limited mean- ing of the word, is determined by the soil even more than by elevation and aspect, which are second only to it in importance. On these with the character of the soil as regards its nature, permeability, retentiveriess of water, depth of subsoil, rise and fall of ground water, if present, or its absence, the surface contour, presence or absence of trees or herbage, its drainage and cultivation or waste character, and even on its colour, as affecting its absorption or reflection of light and heat, depend the amount of rain- fall, the dampness or dryness of the site, the humidity of the air, the tendency to fogs, and to some extent the temperature of the place. When, in fact, one hears that two places within a few miles of one another, or the two extremi- ties of some seaside health resort, have different "airs," it will always be found that it is the soils that differ, and that in this lies the ex- planation of the diiference in the local climates. A full examination of the influence of soil on climate belongs rather to physiography, and we must limit our observations to its immediate bearings on meteorological conditions. Gravels, sands, and chalk are among the most pervious to air and water; if deep, they will be dry and warm and free from fogs, except sea fogs, and such as, forming on hill-tops and cliff's, do not betoken dampness of site. But a, shallow surface soil of this kind resting on an im- pervious stratum will acciimulate a sheet of ground water, oscillating with the amount of rainfall for the time being, and sometimes rising almost to the surface. If by a river-side the ground water will closely follow its ebb and flood, and in a hollow the soil will be water logged. Capillary attraction and evaporation will keep such localities damp and foggy. Impervious and yet retentive soils, as stiff' clays and marls, do not admit of ground water,^ but are cold, damp, and foggy, the rain lying long on the surface as large puddles which evaporate slowly, or sinking a few inches into the cultivated or made soil on the surface. In towns, however, with the entire area well sewered and paved, clay soils m&j be fairly dry, and for low-lying river-side dwellings their impermeability is a distinct advantage. Im- pervious and non-retentive rocks are, of course, the driest of all. High Altitudes.—The factors that go to make up the characteristic climate of high altitudes are the low atmospheric pressure, the lesser amount of oxygen in a given volume of air, the lower temperature and greater dryness of the air, and the greater intensity of the solar rays. Though the experimental methods adopted to ' The so-called '' land springs" met with in heavy- clays are seams of gravel which, collecting storm waters along their line of outcross, act precisely as "agri- cultural drains," and are a serious annoyance when in- tersected by the cellars or basements of houses.METEOROLOGY 382 determine the nature of the changes in the blood induced by the long-continued respiration of such rarefied air have been subjected to severe criticism, there can be no reasonable doubt as to the increase in the number of erythrocytes, the amount of hsemogiobin, and the capacity for absorbing oxygen, together with the greater depth and volume of the respirations; while stimulation of the evaporation from the body and the metabolic processes aid the general nutrition, and the influence of the solar rays in a clear diathermic atmosphere cannot but be highly beneficial. The effect of dampness of soil on the preva- lence of phthisis, though indisputable, is but indirect; combined with humidity and fog, with cold winds and chill, it is apt to induce catarrhal states of the respiratory mucous membrane, rendering it more vulnerable to the attacks of the tubercle bacillus, especially if the domestic and other conditions of life be more or less insanitary ; but simple exposure to cold, and even to wet, as in a life passed in the open air, tends to harden the system against such accidents, as is seen in the extraordinary ex- emption from phthisis and the diseases of the respiratory organs enjoyed by fishermen, and in a less degree by agriculturists, and in the results of the outdoor treatment of persons already phthisical. Cold and damp localities are, however, con- ducive to rheumatic affections, though acute rheumatism, or rheumatic fever, really a different disease, seems to be more prevalent in places exposed to cold dry winds, probably from the liability to sudden arrest of the per- spiration incident thereto. So long as the normal temperature of the blood is maintained by unchecked perspiration, and the tension of the vascular system by imbibition of water, the most intense heat in a dry atmosphere can be borne without ill effects, as in Colorado, but the failure to maintain either of these conditions is speedily followed by one or other form of heat-stroke. Malarial diseases, so-called, can no longer be ascribed to meteorological conditions, since it has been proved experimentally that, so long as the body is protected against the attacks of the anopheles, men may reside with impunity in the most "pestilential" districts, even sleeping on the ground exposed to the night air, while the disease may be induced artificially in the healthiest localities by the bites of infected insects. The seasonal prevalence of diseases of the respiratory organs is cleai-ly attributable to the weather conditions of cold and damp, or the chilling effects of cold dry winds on the skin and bronchial mucous membranes. The annual recurrence of diarrliceal affections, especially among infants, in the third quarter of the yeai', so soon as the ground temperature at a depth of two feet or thereabouts reaches and continues at or over 60° F., is easily explained by the resuscitation to activity of certain pathogenic saprophytes to which these diseases are due, and to the changes effected by their means in milk and other foods. But the annual curves exhibited by other specific infectious diseases present problems of greater complexity. For the purpose of investigation of their etiology we must distinguish between those that, though propagated by direct personal infection, are originally referable to the attacks of bacteria having an independent and extra-corporeal ex- istence in the outer world, that is, in the soil or the water, and those that are purely parasitic, the bacteria being unable to maintain a n active existence, and to perpetuate their kind out of the human body. These questions, together with those involved in the cyclical recurrence of waves of greater or lesser epidemicity, have been already discussed in the article on " Epidemio- logy " (vol. iii.), and we shall restrict ourselves to a few remarks on meteorological aspects of the seasonal prevalence or annual curves pre- sented by these two groups. Typical examples of the former are enteric fever, and diphtheria among endemic diseases, and cholera which, endemic in a comparatively narrow area of the surface of the globe, occurs as an epidemic only in other regions either annually, or at longer or at indefinite intervals ; and of the latter measles, scarlatina, and smallpox, though the occurrence and recurrence of this last is greatly controlled and interfered with by the more or less general practice of vaccination. The meteorological conditions of the former are twofold: (1) those affecting the extra - corporeal existence and activity of the microbe itself ; and (2) those that influence the susceptibility of the human being; whereas with the latter the influence of meteorological conditions can be exerted in- directly only, that is, by rendering the individual more vulnerable or less resistant to infection. Those acting on the bacteria are the optimum temperature and humidity of the soil for each kind, whereas with those rendering the indi- vidual more susceptible, we have to consider the personal equation. The concurrence of the two is necessary in the former case. Thus in India, where the temperature is always sufficiently high, cholera waits for the recurrence of the rains to provide the other condition, and as the seasons are reversed in Lower Bengal and in Southern India the annual recurrences of cholera are so too ; whereas in Europe it is the higher temperature of late summer and autumn that is necessary for the development of an epidemic when the germ has been introduced. Enteric fever finds the requisite conditions in autumn only, and the curve rises with the utmost regu- larity in August, to decline in December with the approach of winter. The conditions of diphtheria are somewhat complicated by the383 METEOROLOGY personal element, the highest mortality being in November and December, when catarrhal affec- tions of the throat increase the susceptibility to infection by a disease that attacks the naso- pharynx, tonsils, and larynx. Measles presents two annual waves, the maxima being reached in June and December, but it is a remarkable fact that while in England and on the continent of Europe the winter wave is the higher, in Scot- land, Scandinavia, and in Hamburg the order is reversed. Scarlatina in Europe is most prevalent and fatal in October, and least so in May and June, but for reasons hitherto unexplained, the maximum in New York is as constantly reached in May. The social conditions may in some cases be themselves dependent on the meteoro- logical, as when the weather tempts to an out- door life and free ventilation of the dwelling, or drives the population into their houses and to neglect of ventilation ; but the causes of the seasonal prevalence of the purely infectious diseases are too complex and various to admit as yet of any satisfactory explanation. Meter. See Metric System. Methaemog^lobin.—A compound of hsemoglobin with oxygen in which the oxygen is more firmly fixed than in oxyhsemoglobin. See Physiology, Blood {Erythrocytes) ; H^emo- GiiOBiNURiA {Definition); Pigments of the Body and Excreta {Haemoglobin and its Deriv- atives). Methaemogrlobinaemia.—The pre- sence of metheemoglobin in the blood. Methaemog^lobinuria. — The pre- sence of methtemoglobin in the urine. Methane.—Marsh gas (CH4), the simplest hydrocarbon (paraffin series) known ; one carbon atom is believed to be linked with four hydrogen ones. More complicated members of the series are derived from it: e.g. ethane is formed by the replacement of one of the hydrogen atoms by methyl (CHg) producing CjHg, propane is formed by the replacement of one of its hydrogen atoms by methyl producing C^Hg, etc. Methane is also known as light carburetted hydrogen, as methyl hydride, and as fire-damp; a mixture with air forms an explosive mixture. Methenyl Chloride.-Chloroform or tri-chloro-methane (CHCI3). See ANiESTHETics. Methethyl.—A local ansesthetic believed to be a mixture of ethyl chloride with methyl chloride and chloroform. Method.—A means or plan of carrying out a surgical, obstetrical, or medical process (diagnostic or therapeiitic). Methodism.—A system of medical theory and practice founded in 100 a.d., according to which morbid states are due to a " looseness " or "tightness" or to a combina- tion of both these states. See Medicine, History OF {Sor anus). Methomania.—A craving for alcohol or stimulants ; dipsomania. Methilepsia has the same meaning (Gr. iJiiOrj, strong drink). Methonai. — A hypnotic compound (CH3)2C(S02CH3)2, resembling sulphonal, given in doses of 15 to 20 grains; chemically it is dimethyl-sulphone-dimethylmethane. Methoxycatecho 1.—Guaiacol {q.v.). Methyl.—The hypothetical radical (CH3) of the hydrocarbon series, the base of a very large number of chemical compounds (Gr. ixtOv, wine, vXrj, wood). See Methyl Alcohol. Methylacetanilide. See Exalgin. Methylal.—A substance, soporific in its action, and having the formula CH2(CH30).^, obtained by the distillation of methyl alcohol with sulphuric acid ; dose, 1 drachm. Methyl Alcohol. — Wood alcohol, CH3OH, obtained i'rom the destructive distilla- tion of wood (Gr. fi-iOv, wine, vXi], wood) ; also known as carbinol or methyl hydroxide. Methylamine. - A colourless gas, CH^N or N(CH3)H2, alkaline in reaction, found in herring-brine and obtained during the distilla- tion of morphine. See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Decomposition of Fish). Methylated Spirit.—Alcohol contain- ing 10 per cent of wood naphtha (methyl alcohol) and not less than -i| of 1 per cent of coal-tar naphtha, to give it a nauseous taste and so prevent it being used as a beverage. See Alcohol {Spiy-its). Methyl Carbinol.—Ethyl alcohol or simply alcohol (CoH^O). See Alcohol. Methyl Chloride.—A colourless gas, CHgCl, easily liquefied under pressure. It is used as a local anaesthetic for minor surgical operations, and to relieve the pain of neuralgia. It is applied exactly as ethyl chloride is, a minute spray from a glass flask being played on the part till freezing occurs. It is said to be one of the ingredients of Somnoform. Methylene Blue. See also Diabetes Mellitus {Blood, Reaction); Urine, Patho- logical Changes in {Colour).—Tetramethyl- thionine, obtained by the action of hydrogen sulphide on an oxidation product of para-amido- dimethylaniline. Occurs in the form of dull384 METHYLENE BLUE dark-green crystals, which give an intensely blue solution in water. Dose—1-4 grs. Methylene blue is largely used as a stain in bacteriology and hsematology. It has also been employed medicinally but without much success. It has been tried as an analgesic in migraine, neuralgia, and painful nervous affections, and it has been recommended in malaria, rheumatism, dysentery, gonorrhoea, and a great many other diseases. In ulcerative stomatitis it may be applied as a dusting powder or in solution to promote healing of the ulcers and to relieve pain. Its disadvantage is that it stains the mucous membranes blue, but this may be re- moved by the application of liquor sodse chlori- natse. For cystitis it is recommended that 2-grain doses be given in capsule and that the bladder be washed out with a 2 per cent solu- tion. Methylene blue is now widely employed as a test for renal efficiency by observing its rate of elimination in the urine after administra- tion. For this purpose it is best given in 5 per cent aqueous solution, injected into the gluteus maximus muscle in quantities varying from 15 to 60 minims. The rapidity of its appearance in the urine, the intensity of the green or blue colouration, the time required for complete elimination, etc., must be noted and compared with what is known to take place in a healthy individual under similar circumstances. In de- termining the relative and absolute functioning capacity of each kidney separately by the use of a segregator or by ureteral catheterisation, the employment of the methylene blue test is of the greatest importance and should never be omitted. Methyl Green.—A staining reagent for histological work ; it is one of the aniline dyes, and, chemically, it is the double zincic chlorhy- drate of chlormethyl hexamethyl-para-rosaniline. It has been combined by Ehrlich with pyronin (chlorhydrate of tetramethyl-diamido-diphenyl carbidride) to form a specially valuable stain for various microbes. Methylrhodin. — Aceto - salicylate of methyl (CjqHj^O^). See Methyl Salicylate. Methyl Salicylate. — Synthetically prepared Oil of Wintergreen, a colourless liquid with a powerful characteristic odour. It has been used for the same purposes as salicylic acid. Applied externally, covered with imper- meable tissue, it is said to be quickly absorbed. 1 in 8 in olive oil or lanolin is a useful applica- tion for rheumatic pains. Methyl salicylate plasters are prepared for lumbago, sciatica, etc. See Gaultheria. Met oestrum. See Ancestrum. Metol.—A chemical used in the develop- ment of photographic plates, which may be the cause of an eruption on the hands. See Derma- titis Traumatica et Venenata {Special Erup- tions, Metol). Metopag'US.—A variety of double mon- ster in which the twins are united by the frontal regions of the heads (Gr. /jLerw-n-ov, the space between the eyes, and Trayto?, firm or fixed). MetopantritiS.—Inflammation of the lining membrane of the frontal sinus (Gr. /xeVtoTTov, forehead, and avrpov, a cavern). Metopantralg^ia.—Pain in the frontal sinuses. See Nose, Accessory Sinuses, Inflam- mation OF (Frontal Sinus). MetopiC Suture.—The frontal suture. Metopism.—A widely-open condition of the frontal suture persisting after the first few months of life, and constituting a wide mem- branous space in tiie middle of the forehead. Metra-.—in compound words metra- (Gr. [iTjTpa, the womb) means relating to the uterus; e.g. metralgia (pain in the uterus), metratresia (imperforation of the uterus), metratome (hys- terotome), metrauxe (enlargement of the uterus), etc. See also Metro-. Metreurysis.—Dilatation of the uterus (Gr. fiTjTpa, womb, ovpos, a boundary) by means of a special instrument (metreurynter). Metric System.—The metric or deci- mal system has obvious advantages over the system of weights and measures in use at present in the British Isles, and these advan- tages apply as much to its scientific as to its ordinary employment; but one objection has hitherto sufficed to prevent its general adoption, viz., its unfamiliarity. Its employment would necessitate many alterations in the nomencla- ture of the laws of the country, in educational methods and text-books, and in the details of commercial life; but there is a gi'owing feeling that these changes will have to be faced ere long. The fundamental unit of the system is the metre (also written meter), which is equal to 39"37 English inches. This is also the unit of length, and all the other measures of length are either multiples or subdivisions of it by ten, Greek prefixes being used for the names of the multiples and Latin ones for those of the sub- divisions : thus a dekametre (Dm.) is 10 metres, a hectometre (Hm.) is 100 metres, a kilometre (Km.) is 1000 metres, and a myriametre (Mm.) is 10,000 metres ; on the other side, a decimetre (dm.) is one-tenth (O'l) of a metre, a centimetre (cm.) is one-hundredth (O'Ol) of a metre, a millimetre (mm.) is one-thousandth (O'OOl) of a metre, and a micron (/x) is the one-millionth part (0'000001) of a metre. In order to contrastMETRIC SYSTEM 385 the two systems, the metric and that in use in this country, I place the measures of length in two parallel columns. Metric System. 1 Myriametre^ 1 Kilometre = 1 Hectometre = 1 Dekametre 1 Metre = 1 Decimetre 1 Centimetre = 1 Millimetre = 1 Micron = : 10,000 Metres. 1,000 ,, 100 ,, 10 ,, 1 0-1 0-01 0-001 0-000001 English System. . fl League =3 Miles. 1 Mile =8 Furlongs. 1 Furlong = 40 Rods. 1 Rod =5^ Yards. Metre. S i Yard =3 Feet. 1 Foot =12 Inches. ^ 1 Inch =12 Lines. 1 Cable's Length =100 Fathoms 1 Chain (100 Links) =22 Yards. 1 Fathom =6 Feet. 1 Pace (Military) =2^ 1 Pace (Geometrical) = 5 English 1 Cubit 1 Quarter 1 Link 1 Hand 1 Palm As may readily be imagined it is easy to change one measure into another in the metric system, all that is necessary being to divide or multiply by ten; but to convert miles into feet or inches, or still more into links and paces, involves an arithmetical calculation. This may be exemplified by the statement that while a Kilometre (which is roughly fths of a mile) con- tains 10 Hectometres, 100 Dekametres, 1000 Metres, 10,000 Decimetres, and 100,000 Centi- metres, a statute English mile contains 8 Fur- longs, 320 Rods, 1760 Yards, 5280 Feet, 63,360 Inches, and 760,320 Lines, and the confusion is exaggerated if it be added that it contains 80 Chains and 880 Fathoms as well, and that the statute Mile differs from the Geographical or Nautical Mile. Further, to convert the metric measures into British measures or vice versa, is both difficult and time-wasting. The simplicity of the metric system is hibited not only in the measures of length also in those of surface, bulk, weight, capacity. Thus the unit for surface measure- ments is the square metre, subdivided into square centimetres, etc., and that for bulk is the cubic metre, subdivided into cubic centi- metres, etc. Mass or weight has for its imit the gramme (Gm.), which may be regarded as the weight of one cubic centimetre of distilled water at its maximum density, 4° C. From the gramme all the other measures of mass are derived; thus a Kilogramme (Kgm.) is 1000 grammes, the Hectogramme (Hgm.) is 100 grammes, the Dekagramme (Dgm.) is 10 grammes, the decigramme (dgm.) is one-tenth (0-1) of a gramme, the centigramme (cgm.) is one-hundredth (0-01) of a gramme, and the milligramme (mgm.) is one-thousandth of a gramme. Capacity has for its unit the litre (L.), which is the capacity at 0° C. corresponding to the volume at 4° C. of a Kilogramme of distilled water. From it the other measures are got by multiplying or subdividing by ten, VOL. VI ex- but and = 18 Inches. = 9 = 7-92 „ = 4 = 3 by a hundred, etc.; thus a Kilolitre (Kl.) is 1000 litres, a HectoHtre (HI.) is 100 litres, a Dekalitre (Dl.) is 10 litres, a decilitre (dl.) is one-tenth of a litre, a centilitre (cl.) is one-hundredth of a litre, a millilitre or a mil (ml.) is one-thousandth of a litre, and so on. The millilitre is practi- cally equivalent to the cubic centimetre. Although the conversion of into metric measures complicated if it is to be quite exact, there is a rough and ready method of accom- plishing it which may be kept in mind. Thus the metre is roughly 39^ inches, the centi- metre f ths of an inch, and the millimetre Tr^th of an inch, while the yard is less by about 3 inches than the metre and the inch corresponds to 2|- centimetres. The gramme is nearly 15^ grains, the Kilogramme corresponds to 2 lb. 3^ oz. (avoirdupois), and the milligramme to about Ty^th of a grain, while the pound avoirdupois is about 453| grammes and the ounce about 28^ grammes. The litre is about 35 fluid ounces (35-196 fl. oz.), and one millilitre or one mil or one cubic centimetre is equivalent to almost 17 (16-9) minims (Imperial); one pint is rather more than half a litre (568*336 c.c), a gallon is practically 4-|- litres (4-545), and a fluid ounce is 28^ c.c. (28-417). It is chiefly in connection with prescription writing that the metric system will come into the daily life of the physician, for most if not all Continental medical men use the metric system. It is important, therefore, to remember that the gramme (contracted form, gm.) corresponds to 15-432 grains (contracted form, gr.), that the litre (contracted form, L. or I.) contains 35-196 fluid ounces (contracted form, Jl. oz. or fl. s), that the millilitre or mil (con- tracted form, ml.) contains 17 (16-9) minims (contracted form, min. or m.). The decimil (dml.) or the tenth part of a mil, therefore, corresponds to 1-7 minims (approximately), and the centimil (cml.) to 0-17 minims (approximately). The decimil and centimil are specially useful in prescribing. See also Prescribing. Metritis.—Inflammation of the uterus ; various forms are enumerated, such as parenchy- matous, hsemorrhagic, and suppurative metritis. Metritis dissecans is the type in which the pus burrows between the layers of tissue which make up the wall of the organ and causes sloughing. See Uterus, Inflammations ; see also Abortion (Maternal Causes); Curettage ; Menstruation and its Disorders ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential Diagnosis); Puerperixjm, Pathology {Puerperal Infection). iVIetrO-.—In compound words metro- (Gr. 25METRO- 386 lx.r)rpoL, the matrix or womb) means relating to the uterus; thus metrocele is a hernia of the uterus, metroclyst is an instrument for injecting fluids into the uterus, metrocampsis is flexion of the uterus, metropathy is disease of the uterus, and metroscope is a sort of vaginal stethoscope for listening for the foetal heart. Metrocyte.—A mother-cell, or that form of large red corpuscle from which the ordinary red blood corpuscles are derived. Metrodynia,. — Pain in the uterus; hysteralgia. Met roman ia. — Nymphomania. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms {Insane Defects of Inhibition); Climacteric Insanity ; Menopause. Metrophlebitis.—Inflammation affect- ing the uterine veins. See Puerpbrium, Patho- logy [Puerperal Infection, Pycemia). Metroptosis.—Prolapse of the uterus. See Uterus, Displacements of [Prolapse). Metrorrhag'ia.—A haemorrhagic dis- charge from the uterus occurring between the usual menstrual periods. See Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium and Endocardium {Effects of Cardiac Disease); Hysteria (Circulatory Disorders); Menopause ; Menstruation and its Disorders (Metrorrhagia); Uterus, Tumours of. MetrOSalping^itiS. — Inflammation of the uterus and Fallopian tubes. See Fallopian Tubes ; Uterus, Inflammation of. Metrotome.—An instrument for divid- ing or incising the lips of the cervix uteri; hysterotome. Metry-.—in compound words metry- (Gr. (jL-^Tpa, womb) signifies relating to the uterus; e.g. inetrypercesthesis (excessive sensitiveness of the uterus), metryperxinesis (excessively active contractions of the uterus), and metrypertrophia (enlargement of the uterus). MetSdinikofPs Theory. See In- flammation (Phenomena, Escape of Blood Cor- puscles, Phagocytosis); Metchnikoff's Theory. Meunier's Sigri. — A loss of weight occurring during the incubation period of measles. Meyer's Disease.— Adenoids of the naso-pharynx or hypertrophy of the pharyn- geal tonsil. See Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths. Mezerei Cortex.—Mezereon Bark or Mezereum is the dried bark of the root of Daphne mezereum, one of the Thymelacese. Externally it acts as a powerful local irritant (rubefacient and vesicant), and internally it stimulates the gastric mucous membrane; it contains a glucoside (Daphnin, C^gH^gOg) and an acrid resinous principle, and it has been given in syphilis, chronic rheumatism, and in some skin diseases (dose, 10 grains). The bark enters into the composition of Liquor Sarsee Compositus Co7icentratus. Miasm or Miasma.—A noxious ex- halation or emanation (Gr. fiiacrna, a pollution), especially from marshy ground. See Malaria. Mica.—A crumb, e.g. mica panis, bread- crumb. Michaeiis' Obliquity.—The attitude of slight extension which the foetal head occupies at the brim of the mother's pelvis in some cases of labour (e.g. in flat pelvis). See Labour, Pre- cipitate and Prolonged (Pelvic Deformities). Micranatomy.—Histology (Gr. lj.iKpo<;, small, and avaro/jirj, dissection). Micrang'ium or Micrangfion.— A capillary vessel; hence micrangiopathy means the diseases of capillaries. Micrencephalon.—The cerebellum. MicrencephalUS.—An individual with an abnormally small brain ; a cretin. See also Microcephalus. Micro-.—In compound words micro- (Gr. /xtKpos, small) signifies small; e.g. microbe (a small organism : Gr. fiiKpog, small, and ^Gtos, life), microtome (an instrument for cutting very thin sections of tissue for microscopic examination), etc. Microbacillus of Sabouraud.— A small bacterium found in the comedo. See Skin, Bacteriology of (Bacteria found in the Comedo). M icroben ner.—A finely-pointed cautery used by Unna to destroy minute areas of dis- eased skin in lupus. See Lupus Erythematosus (Treatment). Microbism.—The presence in the tissues of microbes causing morbid changes (active microbism), or capable of causing such (latent microbism). Microblast. — A small nucleated ery- throcyte or immature red blood corpuscle; a small erythroblast. It is found in the blood of the foetus, and, under pathological conditions, in that of the adult. See Blood (Cellular Constituents, Erythrocytes). M iCroblepharon. — Congenital short- ness of the eyelids, especially of the upper ones.387 MICROCEPHALUS MicrOCephalUS. See also Cheek, Fissure op (Complications) ; Head {Shape); Insanity, Pathology of (Pathological Aiiatomy, Skull) ; Mental Deficiency (Congenital); Par- alysis (Infantile, Conformity of Skull.—This is a condition characterised by an abnormally small head, with, in addition, a peculiar shape of the cranium. The forehead is unduly small and receding, the occiput is flat, and the vertex somewhat pointed. The various parts of the brain are unnaturally small. Some years ago operative measures were tried with the view of remedying this condition, but these were found of no avail. As Shuttle worth says, " Premature synostosis of the sutures of the skull is, in our experience, rare, so that operative measures founded on this hypothesis are illogical." The condition derives importance from the state of mental enfeeblement associated with it, and is further considered in the article on " Mental Deficiency " in this volume. Microchelia or Microcheilus.— Abnormal smallness of the lips (Gr. ^iXo'i, the lip); brachychelia or brachycheilus. MicrOChemistry. —The chemical re- actions of microscopic bodies (see Blood, Special Methods of Examination, Micro-chemical), or chemical investigation aided by the microscope. Micrococcus.—A spherical micro- organism. When two are united it is called a diplococcus ; when there are several arranged in a row, the individual members are called streptococci; and when several are grouped in a bunch, they are called staphylococci. There are many different varieties of each of these leading types—e.g. the micrococcus melitensis of Undulant or Malta Fever (see Undulant Fever), the micrococcus gonorrhoeae or gono- coccus (see Gonorrhceal Infection), the micro- coccus prodigiosus of red milk (see Puerperium, Pathology, Suckling), the micrococcus lique- faciens albus and flavus (see Nose, Examination, Secretion), the micrococcus tenuis (see Pharynx, Acute Pharyngitis, Septic), the micrococcus tetragenus {see Suppuration, Etiology), and the micrococcus urese (see Enzymes, Urinary). See also Micro-Organisms ; Suppuration ; etc. Microcoria. — An abnormal degree of smallness of the pupil occurring as a congenital malformation ; it may be due to foetal iritis and the formation of posterior synechige. Microcornea.—Abnormal smallness of the cornea. See Microphthalmos. Microcyte.—A small erythrocyte or red blood corpuscle of from 3 to 5 microns in diameter. When such cells are found in con- siderable quantities in the blood the condition is known as microcytosis or microcythoemia. Microdactyly.—A congenital deformity consisting in abnormal smallness of the fingers or toes. Microg^ametOCyte. See Malaria (Parasite, Human Phase). MicrOg'IOSSia.—A congenital malforma- tion consisting of abnormal smallness of the tongue ; it may be associated with microstomus or with micrognathus. Microg'nathUS.—Congenital smallness of the lower jaw, unilateral or bilateral. There may be absence of one-half of the jaw (hemi- gnathus) as well as smallness of the other half; associated malformations (e.g. defects of the ears) are common. Microg^yry.—A want in the complexity of the cerebral convolutions, occurring in micro- cephaly (q.v.). Micromania. — A form of insanity in which the patient believes himself or some part of his body to be abnormally small, or thinks that he is diminutive in his mental powers ("delusion of belittlement"). See General Paralysis (Symptoms, Stadium Acutum, Micro- mania). Micromastia or Micromazia.— Abnormal smallness or hypoplasia of the mam- mary glands. See Mammary Glands, Diseases of (Congenital Anomalies). Micromeg'aly. — This is a rare con- dition, and can only be classified as a patho- logical curiosity. It was first described by Hutchinson and Hastings (Lancet, ii. 1896) as a remarkable condition of "mixed premature and immature development." It is the anti- thesis of acromegaly. The name of micromegaly was later suggested, and the condition has been regarded as a disease of that part of the nervous system presiding over nutrition. The disease manifests itself by an excessive size and prematurity of some parts or fimctions of the body, with swellings and immaturity of others. MicromeiUS. — Dwarfing of the limbs such as occurs in achondroplasia (q.v.) or in phocomelus (q.v.). Micrometer. See Microscope (Acces- sory Fittings). Micromyelia.—A diminution in the size of the spinal cord with spinal affection of the pyramidal strands, as seen in microcephaly (q.v.). Micron.—The one-thousandth part of a millimetre or a micromillimetre; its abbrevi- ated symbol is the Greek /x. See Metric System.MICRO-ORGANISMS 388 Protozoa ..... ooo Hyphomyceths or Moulds Q C Q ooo Blastomycetes or Yeasts Q QQ Strbptothrices .... Bacteria ..... oyu General Characters of Bacteria QQA Distribution .... QOA oyu Composition .... Classification .... . 392 Nutrition and Assimilation . 393 Types— Sap7-ophytic .... . 394 Pathogenic .... . 396 ■{See also various Special Diseases and the articles on Am, Examination of ; Enzymes ; Immunity ; Post-mortem Methods ; SUPPURA- TiON : etc.) The term micro-organisms, though unscientific, has been used very generally, especially by medical men, to include the lowest forms of animal and vegetable life concerned in the production of putrefaction, fermentation, and disease. Micro-organisms thus defined include Protozoa, Hyphomycetes, Blastomycetes, Streptothrices, and Bacteria. By far the greater number of disease processes are attributable to the agency of pathogenic bacteria. Protozoa The Protozoa comprise the lowest forms of animal life. Butschli defines them as organisms composed of a single cell, or groups or associa- tions of cells of similar structure which behave physiologically, i.e. with regard to their mode of nutrition, metabolism, irritability, and motility, like typical unicellular animals. The same author divides the Protozoa into four classes : Sarcodina, Sporozoa, Mastigophora, and In- fusoria. I. Sarcodina comprise all Protozoa which, when active and motile, move by simple proto- plasmic streaming, or by means of movable protoplasmic processes of varying shape, the form of the organism undergoing consider- able modifications. Food particles are taken up directly into the organism. Reproduction occurs through simple division. II. Sjmrozoa are parasitic Protozoa which multiply through division or budding into a variable, at times large, number of capsulated reproductive bodies (so-called spores). The plasma of these spores may in turn divide into a number of germs. Recent investigations have shown the existence of a sexual mode of multiplication in a number of Sporozoa. III. Mastigophora are Protozoa which, during their most active period of existence, are furnished with one or more cilia, and are actively motile. IV. Infusoria comprise the highest and most diversified forms of Protozoa. They are per- manently, or during a greater part of their existence, supplied with numerous cilia which serve for feeding besides locomotion. All of these classes comprise parasitic forms, the group of the Sporozoa being the most important and highly adapted to a parasitic existence in different organs, or within certain cells. Whereas certain forms like the malarial parasites are extremely minute, others (Gregar- ines) may be visible to the naked eye. Nuclear division may be direct or accompanied by karyokinesis. The nucleus may be exceedingly small and single, as in the malarial parasite, or there may be several nuclei, macro- and micro- nuclei, as in Infusoria. Protozoa may be amoeboid or of constant form, or they may exhibit amoeboid movement in one stage of their development, and a great variety of form during other periods of their growth. In some stages the protoplasm may be scarcely differentiated, in others highly specialised. The protoplasm may be differentiated into a hyaline ectoplasm and granular endoplasm. Some forms possess a cuticula and, apparently, a contractile sheath. Some move by pseudopodia, others by a flowing motion, others again by cilia and undulating membranes. The protoplasm may contain con- tractile and stationary or digestive vacuoles, and starch-like and fatty granules. Whereas some live within cells as parasites (Hsemocytozoa of malaria), others directly ingest the cellular ele- ments of their host (Amoeba coli). The policystic Gregarines possess anchor-like organs by which they attach themselves to the cells of the intes- tinal mucous membrane. Multiplication occurs asexually through nuclear division followed by fission, through direct or indirect sporulation with or without the formation of a resistant membrane, the resulting spores being amoeboid, flagellated, or crescentic, etc. In some Protozoa the whole cycle of development occurs in one host, in others two hosts are necessary, the sexual development only taking place in one of these (malarial parasites of birds and man). In the case of the malarial parasites we have the formation, alongside of the asexually produced individuals, of dissimilar male and female para- sites in the blood which undergo a true sexual process in certain species of Culicidje (see article on " Malaria"). In other Protozoa we have a simpler sexual process through con- jugation of similar individuals, the result- ing organism becoming encysted or not. In Infusoria partial conjugation occurs, the micro- nuclei being interchanged, after which the organisms again separate. The reader is re- ferred to the works mentioned in the biblio- graphy for further details regarding Protozoa. Hyphomycetes The Hyphomycetes, or moulds, are plants composed of cells of minute size, the cells which do not contain chlorophyll possessing389 MICRO-ORGANISMS a membrane and colourless protoplasm. The membrane is composed of a substance allied to cellulose, whilst the protoplasm usually contains numerous minute nuclei, oil-drops, pigment, vacuoles, crystals of oxalate of potash, but no starch. Through the growth of the distal extremity of the cell, threads (hyphse or mycelia), usually composed of transversely segmented cells, are formed. In Mucor the whole mycelial mass is composed of a tangled and branched unsegmented tube until the occurrence of fructification. Branching may be dichotomous or irregular. Adjacent threads of a mycelium may become fused. In the laboratory mycelial masses are often observed growing in the deeper layers of media. The mycelial threads have the power of penetrating into dead or living animal and vegetable tissues, boring their way into or between the cells, frequently the cell itself being penetrated by delicate processes of mycelium known as haustoria. Under certain conditions the my- celium forms sclerotia or resting bodies, which on cross-section are seen to be composed of a cortical layer composed of terminal cells covered with a dark-coloured membrane, and containing a central mass composed of densely-tangled hyphse. Multiplication occurs either sexually or asexually. The asexual process consists in the formation of endospores within a sporangium (Mucor) or conidia formed by direct cleavage of the extremity of the fruit-bearing thread which arises from the mycelium (Penicillium). En- dospores are formed directly out of the plasma of the sporangial cell. Where the sporangia are club-shaped they are termed asci, and the spores ascospores. Through agglomerations of asci certain forms give rise to bottle-shaped bodies termed perithecia, or beaker - shaped bodies termed apothecia, which contain the asci. The spores are liberated or ejaculated through deliquescence or rupture of the sporan- gial wall. Conidia may be round, oval, spindle- shaped, or rod-like, and are usually developed terminally or laterally from conidia-bearers, rarely directly from hyphse. They are often supported on delicate stems termed sterigmse. Single or numerous processes bearing conidia may be formed, or a series of conidia may be given off in succession from the same process. When the number of conidia-bearers and conidia is uniform we speak of a basidium (Basidio- mycetes). The conidia drop oil' through wither- ing of the sterigmse, through fission, or they are thrown off forcibly through bursting of the conidia-bearer beneath the conidia, the expelled fluid propelling the conidia to a distance. In the Phycomycetes naked cells bearing two cilia, and consequently motile (swarm-spores), are formed in the sporangia, which swell up and liberate their contents into the water. These spores swim about, and after a time they settle down, develop a membrane, and sprout. In some Asco- and Basidio-mycetes pleomorphism exists with regard to spore-formation. Some forms develop only upon a single host, others require two hosts. Certain moulds at times form peculiar bodies termed pyknidse, consist- ing of a hollow structure containing numei-ous conidia-bearers, whose conidia either sprout and form a mycelium, or serve directly as mother- cells for fresh spores. Sexual development occurs either directly through copulation of two swollen mycelial ex- tremities coming in contact and fusing, whereby they give rise to a zygospore, or through the formation of a male element (antheridium), which grows out of the hypha, and, coming in contact with the female element (oogonium) which appears as a swelling of the mycelium, sends a process into it, whereby it becomes fertilised, giving rise to an oospore which be- comes surrounded with a membi'ane of cellu- lose. Prior to sending this process into the oogonium the antheridium becomes separated from its hypha by a cellular partition. Blastomycetes (Yeasts) The yeasts occur as minute, round, or oval cells, which are larger than the bacteria, and multiply by budding, the buds springing from any part of the mother-cell, growing in size, and in turn giving rise to buds. Yeasts do not possess chlorophyll. The cells may become separated or remain adherent to one another, and they may be differentiated into an outer double-contoured membrane containing plasma including vacuoles, droplets of fat, and granules. Nuclei have been demonstrated in some species. Certain yeasts form chains in old cultures, and when exposed to the air, the cells being elongated and remaining coherent (Mycoderma cerevisise and M. vini). It is claimed by some that some yeasts form a true mycelium (Torula), whilst in certain cases a yeast-like growth has been observed to occur in moulds. For this reason Brefeld has included the yeasts under the Hyphomycetes, but Hansen objects to this on the ground that nearly all the yeasts possessing industrial importance produce spores and rarely mycelia, for which reason he gives this group the generic name of Saccharomyces. According to Cao (1900), it appears certain that many of the organisms claimed to have been Blasto- mycetes truly belong to the genus Oidium. Oidium albicans (formerly called Monilia Candida, and often taken for Saccharomycetes), the cause of "thrush," is a case in point. The members of this genus hold an intermediary position between the Hyphomycetes and Blastomycetes, in that they form a true mycelium like the former and multiply like the latter. Cao denies that true yeasts form a mycelium. Besides budding, certain yeasts multiply through spore- formation. As Hansen has shown, sporulation may often be observed in yeasts which areMICEO-ORGANISMS 390 planted upon a surface of plaster-of-Paris and kept under conditions of moisture. The spores, two to four in number or more, appear in each cell as spherical bodies slightly flattened upon their juxtaposed surfaces. The spores stain by the same methods used for staining bacterial spores, being more resistant to staining reagents than are the vegetative cells. Though a number of yeasts have been found of late to exert a pathogenic action, their chief interest lies in their power to produce certain fermentations possessing industrial importance (beer, wine, etc.). It is chiefly due to Hansen that their action has been studied in pure culture, and the most suitable forms isolated and used in practice to the exclusion, as far as possible, of " wild" yeasts which frequently injure the product. Pure cultures of yeasts may be obtained by the methods ordinarily employed in the cultivation of bacteria, suitable media being used. Yeasts may be differentiated by the nature of the fermentation they produce, their appearances in culture and microscopically, and the influence of temperature upon their sporulation and sprouting, as also when patho- genic by their eff'ects upon animals. (See also " Post-mortem Methods.") Streptothricbs The Streptothrices hold an intermediary position between the bacteria and moulds, in that they are formed of intertwined threads which are branched, frequently not segmented, and at times terminating in spore-like bodies. The threads (comparable to the mycelium) may break up into segments resembling bacilli. To this class belong the Streptothrix (Actinomyces) bovis, S. madurse, and a number of other forms which have of recent years been found to exert a pathogenic action. Since branching forms of the Bacillus tuberculosis, B. lepra?, B. diphtherise, B. mallei, and other micro-organisms usually classed under bacteria have been observed, the latter, strictly speaking, should be classified as Streptothrices. All of these forms at times also show clubbed extremities similar to those observed in organisms belonging to this group. For convenience' sake the micro-organisms named are for the present retained under bacteria. Bacteria The Schizomycetes, or Bacteria, include by far the greatest number of known micro- organisms. They constitute the simplest and lowest forms of vegetable life and are of very minute size. Their dimensions are stated in microns, a micron, usually expressed by the Greek letter fj., being equivalent to O-QOl mm. Bacteria vary in size from 0-3-3-0 /x. They may be spherical (Micrococcus), cylindrical (Bacillus), spiral (Spirillum and Spirochsete), the generic names being based upon these funda- mental forms. Multiplication occurs through growth followed by division. Under suitable conditions, this growth and multiplication may be directly observed. In bacilli the growth occurs in the direction of the long axis only, the segmentation occurring transversely; in Micrococcus tetragenus it occurs in two direc- tions, giving rise to groups of four organisms; whereas in the Sarcinse division it occurs in three dimensions, the coherent cells forming cubical bales of eight or more cocci. The multiplication may be very rapid : in the case of B. subtilis it has been observed to occur in twenty minutes. In the act of dividing cocci may appear like short bacilli, and bacilli which are multiplying rapidly may simulate a coccus, but no confusion need result if the examination is made carefully under diff'erent conditions of growth. Though the typical micrococcus is spherical, certain forms when remaining in juxtaposition become modified in shape. This is the case with the M. gonorrhoese, where the opposing surfaces are flattened and somewhat indented, the cocci being also somewhat broader along the axis which runs parallel to the line of fission. The pneumococcus, on the other hand, when occur- ring as a diplococcus, is lanceolate at the free extremity, whence the name M. lanceolatus often given it. Flattening of opposed surfaces is seen in M. tetragenus and in the Sarcinse. Bacilli in chain-forming, non-motile forms like B. anthracis, are flattened at the extremities, whereas most of the motile forms are rounded. The body of the bacillus may be straight or slightly curved (B. megatherium). Both bacilli and spirilla vary considerably in the proportion between length and width. We speak of a short bacillus when the length is about twice that of the width, of a long bacillus when the length is four to ten times the width. Whereas the smallest bacillus known, that of influenza, measures 0"2-0"4 /a, the anthrax bacillus measures 3 by 1 //. Considerably larger forms are, however, known. The typical form of bacilli may be considerably modified during spore-formation; it may be simply widened, as in B. anthracis and B. mega- therium, bulged out at either side so as to form a " Clostridium" (B. butyricus), or be very much expanded at one extremity so as to include a spore which is wider than the cell which has formed it (B. tetani), giving rise to the "drum-stick" appearance. Under certain conditions, which are usually adverse to their growth, cocci, bacilli, and spirilla (streptococci, B. anthracis, cholera spirilla) may become re- markably modified in form (involution and fragmentation forms), so that they no longer resemble the parent form. These involution forms, which take the most variable shape and react feebly to stains, may often be resuscitated if brought \mder favourable conditions, giving rise again to normal-looking micro-organisms.MICRO-ORGANISMS 391 Fragmented forms have been mistaken for spores. That many of the involution forms are really due to degeneration is evident from their reaction to stains. Under certain slightly unfavourable conditions segmentation may be retarded in bacilli and spirilla, long threads being formed which, on staining, are seen to be continuous. In certain forms (Cladothrix and Proteus) pseudo-branching occurs though a break in the chain, the chains continuing to grow away from each other, but remaining adherent by means of the membrane. This must not be mistaken for the true branching of Streptothrix, where on staining the proto- plasm is seen to be continuous. In Thiothrix the organism may be differentiated into short, broad, basal, and narrow, long, apical cells, the former being attached to the substratum. The spirals formed by Spirilla vary, the chains either presenting an undulating appearance, or being so closely twisted as to resemble a corkscrew, the organisms almost touching each other laterally. Single cells viewed from one side have been compared to a comma (not the printed, but the written comma), whilst two which have remained united may resemble an S or written E. Though the Spirochsete are usually included under Spirilla they are essentially different. Whereas Spirilla may be regarded as spirally wound chains of bacilli, each cell forming part of the spiral, the organisms being provided with flagella and having rounded ends, the Spirochsete are to be regarded as single thread-like, spirally wound cells which taper at their extremities, are not possessed of flagella, and move by proto- plasmic contractions which are very evident in the occasional bending of the spiral at one or more points along its length. All motile bacteria, with the exception of the forms just mentioned, are provided with loco- motory organs ov flagella. Though it is claimed that flagella have been seen in unstained organ- isms of large size, their presence is only indicated in smaller organisms hj the commotion they produce in the surrounding medium. It is necessary to resort to staining for their de- monstration. The number of flagella, as well as their distribution upon the surface of the bacterium, varies according to the species. There may be a single flagellum at one end, one at each end, bunches of flagella at the ends, or flagella may be given off' in all directions from the surface of the organism. In the spirilla these organs are more rigid than in bacilli and micrococci, where they are wavy. The flagella are delicate processes of fairly uniform width, and often considerably exceed the length of the organism which carries them. Curious bodies, which have been termed "giant-whips," have been observed in cultures of most motile bacteria, these being apparently made up of conglomera- tions of cast-off" flagella. Their full significance and mode of growth are unknown. It is reason- able to suppose that the flagella constitute direct processes of cell protoplasm, which in a condensed form gives rise to the cell membrane from which the flagella issue. Trenkmann has demonstrated in a large species of spirillum that the flagella traverse the capsule which surrounds the organism. It is quite possible that the flagella are retractile, and it has been suggested that they may fulfil the function of absorbent organs. They are best demonstrated in young, actively-growing cultures, being largely absent in organisms in old cultures. Most bacteria develop capsules, these being very thick in certain species, their presence being indicated in unstained bacteria by an invisible something which keeps them more or less equidistant from one another. Capsules may be demonstrated by suitable stains. In certain species very large coalescent capsules are formed, which give rise to so-called zoogloeal masses. Depending upon the density of the capsule the zoogloea may be more or less firm. Whereas capsules are usually of uniform thick- ness they may show a curious unilateral develop- ment (B. pediculatus), or lead to the formation of ramified colonies. It is the capsule which causes the organisms to hang together in chains, groups, and pellicles, etc. The capsules at times show a greater resistance than the bacterial cell which has produced them. This may not infrequently be seen in pneumonic sputum, which may be largely made up of empty capsules, the presence of which gives a peculiar consistence to the sputum. Whereas some bacteria seem to evolve certain individual cells (so-called arthrospores), which are characterised by a higher degree of resistance than that possessed by ordinary vegetative cells, and thus secure their continued existence under adverse conditions, others form more or less highly resistant spores. Though true endo- genous spore-formation has been observed in micrococci and spirilla, in the vast majority of cases they are onlj' observed in bacilli. Spores are formed within the mother-cell, being either smaller or larger than the cell. Spores vary in shape in different species, being either round or oval. When an organism develops spores it loses its previously homogeneous appearance; refractile bodies are formed, which grow in size or coalesce until they attain the dimensions of fully-grown spores. The remains of the cell and cell-membrane finally disappear, and the spore is liberated. Both Klein and Kanthack have seen bacilli retain their motility whilst forming spores ; but, as a rule, bacilli cease to be motile during spore-formation, and die and degenerate after spores are developed, owing to the fact that practically all the protoplasm has become concentrated in the spore. Spores arc usually formed under conditions which are adverse to the further development of the organism, and392 MICRO-ORGANISMS represent the resting stage in its development. When spores are placed in a suitable medium they germinate, i.e. they gradually lose their characteristic, highly refractive appearance, swell up, and give rise to new vegetative forms, which in turn form spores. The mode in which the organism issues from the spore membrane constitutes a specific character: some issue at right angles to the length of the spore, others in the direction of the longitudinal axis. When the bacillus appears certain forms exhibit a definite spore-membrane, which shows evidence of considerable elasticity, whilst in others such a membrane is not visible. An exceptional mode of sprouting has been observed by Sorokin in a spirillum, where vegetative cells have been seen to develop from spores whilst these are still retained within the mother-cell. It is the rule, however, that spores only sprout after they have been liberated. Some spores possess a consider- able degree of resistance to heat and chemical agents. Whereas the vegetative cells of anthrax are almost immediately destroyed in boiling water, the spores may resist boiling for four to twelve minutes. Certain spores frequently found in soil have been known to resist boiling for six to eight hours. The greater resistance of spores to heat has been attributed to their protoplasm being more concentrated, for the reason that the greater the amount of water in protoplasm the more readily will it become coagulated. Nevertheless the resistance of spores may be attributable to some difference in molecular structure. Whereas the specific gravity of vegetative cells is 1038-1065 (Rubner) that of spores is somewhat higher (Almquist). Viewed unstained bacteria appear as un- differentiated, almost colourless bodies. That they possess a membrane is shown by plas- molysis and the phenomena attending sporu- lation and degeneration. The membrane is different from that in higher plants in that it does not give the cellulose reaction. Some investigators have claimed that the whole bacterium constitutes a nucleus, whilst others look upon certain bodies (Ernst-Neisser bodies) as being equivalent to nuclei. The fact that usually the whole bacillus reacts to nuclear stains has formed the basis for the first state- ment ; the fact that with certain stains small intensely staining bodies appear, has been brought forward in support of the other view. In neither case is the evidence entirely satis- factory. In Beggiatoa we find granules of sulphur deposited in the cell. In other forms iron is deposited within the capsule. At times the protoplasm seems broken up by vacuoles, so that when stained the organism (B. leprte, B. tuberculosis, B. diphtherise, etc.) appears transversely banded or " beaded." Bacteria generally resist the action of dilute alkalies. On the addition of iodine they stain yellow; a few give a starch-like reaction. The use of bacteria in nature is incalculable. The dead bodies of animals and plants which would otherwise accumulate are made to dis- appear and enrich the soil. The effects of their vital processes are daily seen in the formation of manure, the manufacture of bread, wine, etc. Bacteria are very widely distributed, being present in the air except in mid-ocean, the ex- pired air, and the air at high altitudes. They have been foimd in water, ice, snow, and hail. They are absent in the water of deep Artesian wells, but present in all surface waters and the water of shallow wells, as also in the surface layers of the soil. They are usually absent from the tissues of normal animals and plants, though they are numerous in the alimentary canal of all animals, excepting in the Arctic regions, where they may be absent. In the Leguminosae they are present in the root nod- ules apparently under conditions of symbiosis. The composition of bacteria varies within wider limits than that of any other known organisms, it being to a considerable extent dependent upon the chemical composition of the medium within which they grow. In other words, they possess great powers of adaptation. The bacterial cell is composed of about 89 per cent water, and 11 per cent dry substance (Hammerschlag). The solid constituents of the protoplasm are chiefly protein in character. Fats are always present. In B. tuberculosis about 37 per cent fat may be present (de Schweinitz), whilst according to Dyrmont spores contain more fat and nitrogen than vegetative cells. At times a carbohydrate-like granulose would appear to be present. The inorganic constituents represented by the ash amount to about 10 per cent of the dried substance. The proportions between the constituents of the ash vary in different species, as also in the same species under different conditions. A striking- feature of B. tuberculosis is the large amount of phosphoric acid contained in its ash, the same amounting to as much as 55'23 per cent, whereas in the cholera germ we find but 20'48 per cent. According to whether bacteria live upon dead or living matter, as well as according to their most characteristic effects, they have ar- bitrarily, and for the sake of convenience, been classified into zymogenic (fermentative), chro- mogenic (pigment producing), aerogenic (gas producing), saprogenic (putrefactive), photo- genic (light producing), toxicogenic (poison pro- ducing), and pathogenic (disease producing) organisms. Thermophyllic bacteria are such as grow at particularly high temperatures, i.e. at times at a temperature of 60° to 70° C. According to whether the organisms grow in the presence or absence of atmospheric oxygen they are distinguished as aerobes and anaerobes. Certain forms are " facultative," that is, they are capable of multiplying under either the393 MICRO-OKGANISMS one or the other condition. In the case of true anaerobic organisms the vegetative cells are actu- ally killed through exposure to the air. There is but a single anaerobic micrococcus known; all other known anaerobic bacteria are bacilli. Investigations just published by Klett (1900) show that we must define in future what is meant by anaerobiosis. It has always been claimed hitherto that B. anthracis requires oxygen for spore-formation, and that this prob- ably explained the absence of spore-formation in the animal body. The contrary is the case with the bacilli of tetanus and malignant oedema, which forms spores in the body. Klett has found that B. anthracis forms spores in a nitrogen, but not in a hydrogen atmosphere, which indicates that the latter gas is not "neutral" as has been hitherto claimed. Nutrition and Assimilation.—The nutrition of bacteria occurs through the diffusion of soluble substances from the surrounding medium into the bacterial cell. With the exception of a few green forms bacteria do not assimilate carbon from carbon dioxide. In fact, the majority give off CO2 like animals. They obtain their carbon from organic compounds, as also from simple compounds like glycerin, tartaric and lactic acids. Their nitrogen is derived from protein compoimds, but also from simpler com- pounds like asparagin and the amido acids, though a number can obtain their nitrogen from inorganic compounds like ammonium, chlorides, and nitrates. In the nodules of the Leguminosse the bacteroids take up the nitro- gen of the atmosphere, thus aiding the plant in which they live, and enriching the soil. Hydrogen is derived from organic compounds, ammonia, or water. Aerobic forms derive their oxygen from the air, anaerobic forms from proteins and carbohydrates. Some species, like Engelmann's B. chlorinum, give off oxygen. Sulphur and phosphorus are derived from organic or inorganic (sulphates and phosphates) matter. The so-called sulphur bacteria oxidise HgS to S, the oxidation of sulphur giving the cell the energy due to oxidation of albumin in higher organisms. Chlorine is derived from chlorides, whilst sodium, potassium, calcium, and iron, the latter usually present in traces, are readily procurable both in organic and inorganic matter. Most bacteria prefer a neutral or slightly alkaline medium; acidity equal to 20 to 30 c.cm. normal acid solution per litre (as tested by litmus) inhibits their growth. Bacteria form a contrast to moulds in this respect. Bacteria cause changes in the surrounding medium through the agency of ferments, acids, etc., which they give off. By crushing yeast-cells and filtering their contents through a stone filter Buchner showed that the cells contained a ferment capable of con- verting cane-sugar into COg and alcohol. Macfadyen, Morris, and Roland (1900) in repeating Buchner's experiments, find that the substance of the crushed yeast of itself gives off large quantities of COg and alcohol, which indicates that the fermentation changes take place within the cell protoplasm. Similarly it has been found that bacteria elaborate certain substances within their protoplasm which are capable of producing chemical changes in a medium. Whilst some organisms do not allow their products to diffuse to any considerable distance into the medium, others do so. We can observe this microscopically in pigment- producing bacteria, some of which give off a highly soluble pigment which diffuses quickly throughout the medium (B. pyocyaneus), others a pigment which is deposited in the vicinity of the cells (B. prodigiosus). So it is with peptonising ferments. Some liquefy at a con- siderable distance (liquefying bacteria); others do not apparently liquefy, but none the less their bodies have been found to contain the ferment (B. typhi, B. tuberculosis). Similarly some forms give off highly diffusible toxins, others not. We have already referred to anaerobic organisms. In nature these organ- isms find conditions for their multiplication through the presence of aerobic forms which rob the medium of its free oxygen, and possibly exert an influence through their products. Aerobic forms, when motile and growing in media in which the oxygen is lessened, seek the surface or the bubbles of air it may contain. A very beautiful experiment of Engelmann's made upon a thread of Spirogyra beneath the microspectroscope has showti that such bacteria will accumulate along those portions of the Spirogyra which lie across the ra^ys of light in which oxygen is most liberated. This motion in the direction of oxygen or desired food- substance is known as positive chemotaxis. Substances which do not attract or repel micro- organisms are spoken of as negatively chemo- tactic. The motion of bacteria varies in rate and kind according to the particular species. Motile anaerobic forms cease to move when exposed to the air, the reverse being the case with aerobic organisms. The motion is influenced by temperature, still more so the rate of multiplication, and consequently the physiological activity. Between the lowest and highest temperature at which an organism will grow (minimum and maximum tempera- tures) there is a temperature at which it grows best (optimum temperature). The optimum temperature for the growth of most pathogenic forms corresponds to the temperature of the animal in which it is capable of inducing disease. Whereas sporulation occurs best at about the optimum, sprouting occurs usually best at a somewhat higher temperature. The duration of life in bacteria varies ac- cording to the species. The spores of anthrax have been found to live for twenty-two yearsMICRO-ORGANISMS 394 in sealed tubes (Pasteur), and the Bacillus tuberculosis has been found alive and virulent after being kept in dried sputum for ninety-five days. Some pathogenic forms resist desiccation for a considerable time (B. diphtherise, pyogenic bacteria, etc.), whilst others are destroyed when dried for only a few hours (cholera spirilla). In mixed cultures, as also in the body, only those organisms survive which are best suited to the conditions. Certain bacteria and their products are antagonistic to each other. B. typhi is rapidly killed off when cultivated with B. prodigiosus, B. coli, etc., whilst the products of B. pyocyaneus are antagonistic to the cholera spirillum. On the other hand, B. typhi grows well together with Streptococcus pyogenes. As the result of continued cultivation in artificial media, the action of heat, chemical agents, etc., pathogenic organisms may become attenuated, i.e. become lowered in virulence or lose their power to produce pigment, fermentation, and phosphorescence. Attenuated organisms are lowered in their vital powers. Some organisms lose their virulence more rapidly than others when cultivated artificially. The Streptococcus pyogenes, B. pestis, and B. mallei lose their virulence in a short time in artificial media. On the other hand, B. tuberculosis and B. anthracis may retain their virulence for many generations in culture. The application of cold checks the growth of micro-organisms, whilst alternate freezing and thawing are fatal if repeated. A number of bacteria resist con- tinued freezing for a considerable period of time. Prudden found B. typhi still alive after a sojourn of 103 days in ice, though the total number of organisms introduced had decreased. Ravenel found that anthrax bacilli, B. diph- therise, B. typhi resisted the temperature of liquid air ( - 312° F.) for three hours. The ap- plication of cold to food preservation depends upon its power to check bacterial growth. High pressures exert no appreciable effect on bacteria. Light depending upon its intensity retards development, attenuates, or kills bac- teria. The spores of anthrax are killed by an insolation of forty-eight hours, the vegetative cells being destroyed inside of two hours. Elec- tric light has a similar though naturally less intense effect. The growth of bacteria is not affected by the red rays of the spectrum, whilst it is affected by all the other rays, especially the violet. The Bacillus photometricum pos- sesses a peculiar interest in that it is quiescent in the dark and moves toward a source of light. Otherwise all organisms grow best in the dark. It has long been observed that the virus of anthrax persists longest in infected places shaded by undergrowth. The effects of electricity are indirect, really being due to electrolysis, the sodium chloride in the solution being broken up and chlorine evolved, besides which hydro- gen peroxide and ozone may be produced. This electrolytic action has been practically applied to the purification of polluted waters. Bacteria are susceptible to the effects of physiological poisons such as ether, chloroform, prussic acid, carbolic acid, etc. Whereas the majority of bacteria lead a sapro- phytic existence, i.e. live upon dead matter, a certain number may exist as parasites. Certain forms can only lead a saprophytic existence, some may also be capable of existence as para- sites, others appear to be obligatory parasites. Some saprophytic bacteria may indirectly pro- duce pathogenic effects through their products, toxins and ptomains (meat-poisoning, etc.), such organisms being described as toxicogenic (B. botulinus). Saprophytic bacteria may produce fermenta- tion, putrefaction, oxidation, or reduction, nitri- fication or denitrification of the medium in which they are vegetating. These chemical changes are brought about through the normal physio- logical functions of the micro-organisms. A large number gives off diastatic or amylolitic ferments, by which they are capable of convert- ing starch into sugars, as do animals by means of their salivary and pancreatic secretions. Some give off proteolytic enzymes, by means of which they convert albuminous substances into albumose, and albumose to pepton. Many give off this enzyme freely into the surrounding medium, and proteolytic changes are produced at a distance from the cell. We see this in the so-called liquefying bacteria, such as liquefy gelatine and coagulated blood-serum. Similarly with other products. B. pyocyaneus gives off a highly diffusible pigment, 15. diphtherise and B. tetani a highly diffusible toxin, whilst in other cases either the proteolytic ferment is not given off freely, though it is contained in and has been isolated from the cell (B. tuberculosis, B. typhi), or the toxin or pigment (B. violaceus, B. pro- digiosus, etc.) is not diffusible. Proteolytic enzymes which dissolve fibrin have been isolated from the spirillum of cholera, S. Finkler-Prior, B. prodigiosus, etc. This ferment is destroyed by exposure to a temperature of 55°-70° C. Neither peptonising nor diastatic ferments are produced in the absence of albumin. In insec- tivorous plants peptonisation is brought about indirectly through the agency of micro-organ- isms, and the plant thrives upon the products. Some bacteria give off inverting ferments which (as in animals) convert cane-sugar into glucose. Others give off rennet-like ferments, which curdle milk ; others fat-splitting ferments, which cause the rancidity of butter or fat. There is no essential difference between fer- mentation and putrefaction, the difference being but one of degree. Broadly speaking, a fer- mentation process (the term being used in the ordinary sense) results in few products, whilst in putrefaction they may be numerous, the process being accompanied by the evolutionMICRO-ORGANISMS 395 of evil-smelling gases. Putrefaction occurs in complex dead vegetable and animal matter : the protein, which contains carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulphur, and phosphorus, being split up into ammonia, amines, indol, and skatol, containing the nitrogen and hydrogen sulphide, mercaptan, etc., containing the sulphur derived from the protein molecule. In putrefaction the medium often becomes alkaline (ammonia, etc.). The term fermentation is vulgarly applied to changes taking place in carbohydrate solutions. Owing to the formation of organic acids a fer- menting solution gives an acid reaction. A fermenting fluid often gives off an agreeable odour. The chief fermentations are the alcoholic, acetic, lactic, butyric, viscous, fatty, and am- moniacal fermentations. Other fermentations are those which result in nitrification and denitri- fication. These processes are accompanied by oxidation and reduction, the commonest change being that of hydration. Alcoholic fermentation is chiefly produced by yeasts; it may also be produced by moulds (mucor) or bacteria (intes- tinal bacteria—B. typhi, B. pneumoniae). After a certain amount of alcohol has been formed in the process of fermentation (the amount reached in beer fermentation is 5 per cent, in that of wine 10-15 per cent) the fermentation process ceases, the alcohol checking the further growth of the yeast. In alcoholic fermentation we have the following changes taking place :— Ci2H220n + H^O = C.H^^Oe + C^H^^O,. C6H,A = 2C2H,0 + ^CO,. The chief product is alcohol, the secondary products being CO2, aldehyde, higher alcohols (butyl, propyl, amyl alcohol), glycerine, acetic, succinic acid. E. Buchner has succeeded in proving that yeast cells contain a ferment capable when isolated of producing alcoholic fermentation. In the various industries con- siderable importance is attached to the utilisa- tion of definite species of yeasts, which yield the highest percentage of alcohol or the most desirable product. In bread-making, yeast and bacteria are added to the dough; the bacteria convert the starch into sugar, and the yeast converts the sugar into alcohol and CO.,, the gas distending the bread. In acetic acid fer- mentation we have alcohol oxidised to acetic acid according to the formula— CgHgO + 02 = C2H^02 + H/J. For this process free access of air is needed ; the amount of alcohol present must be under 15 per cent, the best temperature being 30°-35°C. After about 14 per cent acetic acid has been produced fermentation is checked by this pro- duct. A considerable number of bacteria are known which produce acetic acid (B. aceti, etc., pneumococcus ; B. lactis aerogenes, B. coli, etc.). In lactic acid fermentation glucose (CgHj20g) is converted into lactic acid (CjHyO.,) and other secondary products, such as alcohol, acetone, formic and acetic acids. Butyric acid fermenta- tion is usually produced by anaerobic organisms, the glucose being converted into butyric acid (C^HgOg), carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. Viscous or slimy fermentation occurs at times in milk, urine, beer, wine, and sugary solutions, a carbo- hydrate, dextran (C^Hj^O^), allied to dextrin, being formed, the medium becoming gelatinised. The capsules formed about Leuconostoc mesen- teroides, when grown in sugary solutions, are almost entirely composed of this substance, no capsules being evident when this organism is grown in sugar-free media. The fermentation occurring in fats results in their becoming rancid. In ammoniacal fermentation a process of hydration occurs, urea being broken up as follows :— C0(NH2), + H2O = COo -I- 2NH3; the products uniting to form ammonium carbonate. A fermentation process of great importance in nature is that which results in nitrification, whereby the useless nitrogen derived from living beings is converted into the useful nitrates, which are utilised by the plants in the soil. Nitrates are always the end products of the decomposition of animal matter in the presence of bases. Nitrates are formed in manure; they are the important constituents of guano and of commercial soda-saltpetre. The ammonia formed is oxidised to nitrous and nitric acids, and these combine with bases. In examining water suspected of being polluted with organic matter, one tests for nitrates and nitrites. The nitrifying bacteria are separated into two groups : the nitroso-bacteria, which form nitrous acid, giving rise to nitrites, and the nitro-bacteria, which oxidise nitrous to nitric acid, giving rise to nitrates. Certain bacteria denitrify, i.e. they exert an opposite effect. The products of bacteria depend for their amount upon the favourable or unfavourable conditions of medium, temperature, and vital activity of the particular micro-organism. The presence of antagonistic or other forms of bacteria will modify the growth and products of a given micro-organism. Some bacteria pro- duce acid, others alkali — these physiological differences being of use in the determination of the species. We have already seen how diff'erent the products are for diff'erent species, and considerable difl"erences may be observed in the growth and products of one and the same micro-organism in media of different constitution. As far as the experimental evidence goes, the accumulation of products checks the growth prior to the exhaustion of the medium, the growth ceasing owing to the amount of acid (0'8 per cent in lactic acid, 10 per cent in aceticMICRO-ORGANISMS 396 acid fermentation) or alcohol (maximum 15 per cent), phenol, and other products present in the nutrient solution. A considerable number of bacteria produce ptomains. Ptomains are crystallisable nitrogen —containing bases which are very similar to vegetable alkaloids. Besides nitrogen they con- tain carbon, hydrogen, and sometimes oxygen. Some ptomains are toxic, others not. Ptomains were first isolated by Nencki in 1876 from various organic substances undergoing putre- faction, as also from pure cultures of pathogenic bacteria. Toxic ptomains were separated from cultures of B. typhi, Spirillum cholerae asiaticee, B. crassus sputigenus, etc., by Brieger. Nencki and Marme were unable to isolate a ptomain from cultures of B. anthracis. Until the dis- covery of the vastly more potent toxalbumins of certain pathogenic bacteria more importance was attached to the ptomains. It is possible that ptomains exert some effect in cholera and typhoid fever. Bacteria which produce poisonous ptomains are called toxicogenic, but are not necessarily of themselves pathogenic. Ptomains play an important part in ice-cream, cheese, meat, sausage, fish, and canned food poison- ing. Food containing large quantities of toxic ptomains has often been eaten without suspicion. From the point of view of pathogenesis the greatest importance is to be attached to the specific bacterial toxins which are formed within the bacterial cell. These are imstable com- pounds which are injured by heat, light, and various chemical agents. Their chemical com- position is highly complex, and remains to be determined. It has been proved that they are not ptomains, basic substances, nor proteins. The toxins are specific products of the physio- logical activity of certain bacteria. In cultures of B. diphtheria; and B. tetani they are highly diffusible. The toxicity is very great in both of these ; 0'002 c.cm. of a filtered diphtheria culture, or even less, may be fatal to a guinea- pig, whilst 0-000,000,05 gram, of purified tetanus toxin kills a mouse of 15 gram, weight, the estimated fatal dose for a man of average weight being of a grain. Toxins have been isolated from B. diphtherise, B. typhi abdo- minalis, B. tetani. Spirillum cholerse asiaticse, pneumococcus, B. tuberculosis, B. mallei, and B. pestis, but not from B. anthracis. Certain bacteria produce a characteristic pig- ment, such forms being termed chromogenic. The pigment may be red, violet, yellow, green, etc., and its character often serves for the differentiation of species. A number of bacteria are photogenic, i.e. phosphorescent, and may cause fish, meat, or sausage to become luminous. The greater number of phosphorescent bacteria occur in sea-water. A considerable amount of heat may at times be produced as the result of bacterial activity. When complex bodies are broken up during the fermentation process induced by bacteria, yeasts, or moulds, heat is liberated. Fermenta- tion occurring in damp hay, grain, and cotton may lead to spontaneous combustion. The rise of temperature in manure-heaps is familiar to all. In alcoholic fermentation due to yeast, as also in the fermentation of hops, tobacco, potatoes, and turnips which have been stacked in a damp state, a rise of temperature of 50°-60° has been observed. A temperature of 70° C. may be reached in the fermentation of sauerkraut. Confining ourselves to those micro-organisms which produce disease in the animal and vege- table kingdom, it may be stated that all of the above described groups comprise organisms which exert a direct pathogenic action. Limit- ing ourselves to man, we find Protozoa causing tertian, quartan, and sestivo-autumnal malaria, and also amoebic dysentery. Moulds cause herpes, thrush, and favus, and fatal pneumonia has been caused by Aspergillus. A number of yeast-like organisms are pathogenic. Colpe (1894) isolated a pathogenic form from a case of chronic cervical endometritis; Busse (1895) isolated another form from a case which he describes by the name of " Saccharomycosis hominis," the disease having the form of chronic pyaemia, and the germ isolated in culture pro- ducing fatal disease in white mice. Sanfelice has found a species, S. neoformans, which is pathogenic for dogs, mice, and the chicken, another species (S. litogenes) which is patho- genic for cattle, guinea-pigs, and white mice. Gilchrist and Stokes describe a species (Blasto- mycetes dermatitidis, 1898) which was the cause of a dermatitis in man, the cultivated organism proving pathogenic for the horse, dog, sheep, and guinea-pig. Out of 50 Blastomycetes examined for their pathogenicity by Rabino- witsch (1896 ; some of these, no doubt, belong to the genus Oidium), 7 species proved to be pathogenic to experimental animals. The so-called "cancer bodies," or cell-inclu- sions observed in cancer, have been claimed by some investigators to represent Blastomycetes (Sanfelice, Plimmer), whilst others have claimed them to be Protozoa. Neither Sanfelice nor Plimmer have established the histological identity between their experimental tumours (produced by inoculation with Blastomycetes), and sarcoma or cancer. The only two observa- tions by Sanfelice in which dogs acquired cancer-like tumours, gave negative cultui-al results, and showed cell-inclusions the mor- phology of which was very different to that of the organisms introduced. The choice of dogs for these experiments does not seem to be entirely fortimate, when we remember the facts stated by Frohner regarding the frequency of cancer in dogs studied by him in Berlin, where 40 per cent of the dogs coming to operation proved to be cancerous. It remains still toMICRO-ORGANISMS 397 be proved that Blastomycetes can produce epithelial proliferation, in other words, that they stand in any etiological relationship with cancerous processes. Pianese, Dean, and many others consider the cancer-bodies to be due to degenerative changes. There are things which speak for and against the parasitic theory of cancer; it remains still to be proved that it is due to a parasitic micro-organism. Out of a total number of 41 species of Oidium, isolated and studied by Cao, 28 proved to be pathogenic for animals. Streptothrices are pathogenic agents in actino- mycosis and Madura-foot disease, whilst specific bacteria have been proved to be the cause of anthrax, tuberculosis, diphtheria, pneumonia, glanders, gonorrhoea, typhoid, tetanus, cholera, influenza, plague, Malta fever, cerebro-spinal fever, malignant oedema, suppurative processes, erysipelas, rhinoscleroma, soft sore, leprosy, and relapsing fever, etc. MicropatholOgy.—The study of mi- crobes in relation to disease, or the study of minute or microscopic pathological changes. Micropha.g'e.—A small phagocytic cell (polynuclear). See Immunity. Micropha,ki£l.—Abnormal smallness of the crystalline lens of the eye. See Lens, Crystalline [Micraphakia). Microphone. — An instrument for making feeble sounds louder and more easily heard; it has been utilised in the practice of i auscultation, etc. ^ Microphthalmos.—As the term indi- cates, this is a condition characterised by small size of the eyes. It is the antithesis of mega- lophthalmos, in which the eyeballs are un- ' naturally large. As might be expected, in the one case the eyes appear to be small, somewhat ' flat, and retracted in the sockets, while in the other they are unduly prominent, an excessive I amount of sclera is visible, and the condition j suggests exophthalmic goitre. As a rule, the : diminution or enlargement is shared by all the i coats of the eye. Thus we have the terms microcornea, macrocornea, etc. The pathology of these conditions is unknown. Vision may be normal, but is not unusually slightly defective. No treatment is called for. Micropsia.—An abnormal state of vision in which objects appear to be smaller than they really are. See Choroid, Diseases of {Plastic Choroiditis, Symptoms); Hysteria (Sensory Disorders, Ocular). Micropyle.—An aperture in the vitel- line membrane of an ovum through which a spermatozoon is supposed to pass in fertilisa- tion. Microscope, The. Objectives ...... 397 The Ocular 398 Focussing Adjust7)ients, etc. . . . 398 Illuminating Apparatus .... 398 Accessory Fittings ..... 399 The Use of the Microscope . . .399 See also Blood (Examination); Post-mortem Methods {Examination of Tissues); etc. Microscopes are of two kinds, simple and com- pound. The compound microscope consists essentially of two lenses—one, the object glass, forms an enlarged, inverted, and reversed image of the object; whilst the second lens, termed the eye-piece, magnifies this image and is placed between it and the eye of the observer. In all modern microscopes the object glass is replaced by a combination of lens known as the ob- jective, and the eye glass is represented by a combination of lenses termed the ocular. The objective and ocular are mounted at the ends of a tube which can be made to recede from or approach a square or rounded stage which has a central aperture. Beneath the stage is the illuminating apparatus. This con- sists of a mirror to reflect rays of light upwards through the opening in the stage, and on to an object lying on the latter. One side of this mirror is a concave, and the other a plane mirror. Attached to most microscopes there is also a system of lenses, termed a condensor, placed between the mirror and the stage—the condensor serving to focus on the object the rays of light proceeding from the mirror. The whole instrument is supported on a foot or base which is either of horse-shoe form, as in most Continental models, or in the form of a tripod—a microscope with the latter being the more rigid instrument. The foot should be jointed so that the microscope may be inclined to any angle. Objectives.—Each consists of a combination of lenses mounted in a tube, the upper end of which can be connected by means of a screw thread to the lower end of the tube of the microscope. Formerly there were several diff'erent forms of screw thread, but now all makers have adopted the English thread, or what is termed the Society's screw thread. There are two classes of objectives—dry and immersion, and each have their own uses. In dry objectives, the lens nearest the object—the frontal—remains separated by air from the object or the cover-glass over it. In the case of an immersion objective, a drop of liquid is interposed between the frontal and the cover- glass, and the liquid employed should have a refractive index the same as, or approaching as closely as possible to, that of the glass forming the frontal. With a water-immersion objective a drop of distilled water, which has a refractive index of 1*33, is used; with a homogeneous398 MICROSCOPE, THE immersion objective, cedar oil with a refractive index of 1'51 is employed, as this is likewise the refractive index of crown-glass. In dry and immersion objectives both chromatic and spherical aberration are largely corrected, and these objectives are therefore termed achromatic. In apochromatic objectives both forms of aber- ration are still more completely corrected, but as their use is not essential for ordinary work the reader is referred to standard works on microscopy for a detailed description of such objectives. Their value lies largely in the fact that they can be used with oculars of high magnification, and in their suitability for microphotography. The terms focal distance, frontal distance, re- solving and defining power, angle of aperture, and numerical aperture require explanation. The focal distance is the distance of the focus from the lens, and objectives are distinguished by their focal distance measured in inches or millimetres, although the dry objectives of Continental makers are often designated by the numbers I., II., etc. (Leitz, Reichert, and others), or by the letters A, B, C, etc. (Zeiss). The frontal distance is the distance between the frontal of the objective and the cover-glass when the object is accurately focussed. The resolving power of an objective is its power of showing detail, whilst the defining power is its power of defining outline. Numerical aperture.—The resolving and defining powers of an objective depend, apart from its correction for spherical and chromatic aberration, on its angle of aperture, which is defined as " the angle formed by the two extreme rays emanating from the object, and utilised by the objective" (van Heurck), and the greater the angle of aperture the greater is its resolving power. But the angle of aperture also depends on the refractive index of the medium interposing between the objective and the object; and each objective has what is known as a " numerical aperture " (N.A.), which is represented by the sine of half the angidar aperture multiplied by the re- fractive index of the medium (air, oil, etc.)— thus N.A. = 71 sin u, n being the refractive index of the medium, whether air, water, or oil. The refractive index of air is taken as 1 ; that of distilled water is 1'33; and that of cedar oil 1'51. By the above equation it is found that a homogeneous immersion objective with an angular aperture of 82° has the same numerical aperture as a dry objective with an angular aperture of 180°, the numerical aperture of each objective being 1; hence homogeneous immersion objectives having an angular aperture greater than 82° have a larger aperture than dry objec- tives of 180°, and thus have greater resolving power, or, in other words, are of greater value for the observation of very minute structures. Thus a dry objective, the N.A. of which is 0'88, and a homogeneous immersion objective with a N.A. of 1"30, each with a focal distance of inch, give the same amplification, yet the latter having the greater resolving power is conse- quently to be preferred. Another advantage of an immersion objective over a dry objective of the same magnifying power is that the former has a greater frontal distance, and is therefore more easily used. The ocular commonly used is known as a Huyghenian ocular, and is composed of a tube, at each end of which is a plano-convex lens with its convex surface towards the objective. These lenses are termed respectively the eye lens and field glass, and between them is a diaphragm. The tube forming the body of the instrument, and to the lower end of which the objective is attached, is furnished with an inner tube, termed the draw-tube, into the further end of which the ocularfits. This draw-tube shouldbear a scale graduated in millimetres to indicate the exact distance of the ocular from the objective. Tube lengths are corrected either for English or Continental objectives; but apart from this, the total length of the tube to be used depends on the thickness of the cover-glass employed during the examination. With Continental instruments, which are intended for use with cover-glasses 0'15 to 0'20 mm. thick, the distance from the eye glass to the end of the tube into which the objective is screwed should be 170 mm. ; but as a nose-piece is usually employed, and has a thickness of 10 mm., the draw-tube is to be extended to the mark 160. The tube length for the English body is 250 mm. Mention may also be made of the fact that some objectives are fitted with "correction collars " for the correction of the varying thick- ness of cover-glasses. Focussing Adjustments. — The body of the microscope with objective and ocular is raised from or lowered towards the stage by two means—the coarse and the fine adjustments. The former is effected either by a rack and pinion, or simply by a combined sliding and screwing movement of the body tube in a spring tube connected with the stand. The mechanism for slow movement of the body, i.e. for fine adjustment, varies in its component parts according to the model of the microscope, but usually consists of two tubes which tend to separate from each other by the pressure of a spiral spring, and are moved on each other by a screw attached to a milled head. The nose-piece, which is an appliance screwed to the lower end of the microscope tube, and permits of objectives being rapidly changed, is an almost indispensable part of the microscope. A nose-piece is usually constructed to carry two or three objectives (dovible or triple nose- piece). The illuminating apparatus consists of a plano-concave mirror, and usually, too, of aMICROSCOPE, THE 399 condenser, whilst the number of rays of light falling on the object is regulated by means of a diaphragm. The mirror can be tilted to any required angle, and is usually mounted on a movable arm so as, if necessary, to give oblique illumination, which is sometimes advantageous when finer structural details have to be determined. Diaphragms, which are pieces of metal with an aperture, are employed in order to intercept the peripheral rays reflected from the mirror. If no condensor is employed, the diaphragm is situated immediately below the stage, and is then either a circular copper plate pierced with circular openings of different diameters, and is so attached to the under surface of the stage that any one of these openings can be brought directly beneath the aperture in the stage, or there is an iris diaphragm, the aperture of which can be regulated by a small knob or handle projecting from the side of the diaphragm. Some micro- scopes, however, are supplied with movable plug diaphragms which are to be inserted into the aperture of the stage, each diaphragm having an opening of diiferent diameter. When the microscope has a condensor the diaphragm is usually of the iris form, and is fitted beneath the lenses of the condensor. The condensor is constructed of a system of lenses mounted in a tube and placed beneath the stage. The condensor should be capable of being lowered or elevated so that the rays of light proceeding from the mirror may be focussed on the object resting on the stage. This focussing is preferably effected by a rack and pinion; but in the simpler condensors it is performed by means of a simple screw at the side of the condensor. The Abbe condensor is the one in most general use. Accessory Fittings.—A mechanical stage is one which can be moved mechanically. The better microscopes are fitted with such a stage, but otherwise one can be attached to any ordinary microscope. The movements should be effected by rack and pinion adjustment, and in some models the stage can be con- centrically rotated. For the determination of the size of micro- scopic objects a special piece of apparatus, the micrometer, is required. In its simplest form this is an eye-piece micrometer—a glass disc on which there is a graduated scale. A drawing apparatus, or camera lucida, is essentially a prism situated in front of the ocular; and the use of such an apparatus, whether in its simpler or more elaborate form, is of great assistance when a drawing of a microscopic object has to be made. The simple microscope is composed of two plano-convex lenses separated by a diaphragm. The lenses are mounted on a stand which has a stage, a mirror, and rack and pinion focussing adjustment. Most of the microscopes of this form magnify from 10 to 20 diameters, and are chiefly of value as dissecting microscopes. If a microscope is to be purchased it should be obtained from a first-class maker, but need not necessarily be an elaborate instrument. The stand should be a good one and be inclinable; have fine adjustment and coarse adjustment by rack and pinion, a sub-stage condensor with mechanical adjustment, a high- and a low-power objective (i-inch and |^-inch, or III. and VII.), a triple nose-piece, and two oculars (I. and IV.). Such an instrument will suffice for all ordinary clinical and histological work; and a J^inch homogeneous immersion objective, a mechanical stage, and other ac- cessories can be obtained subsequently as the need for them arises. The prices and illustra- tions of the different grades of microscopes of objectives, oculars, and other constituent parts, and also of the supplementary apparatus, will be found in any of the makers' catalogues. The Use of the Microscope.—Work should, as far as possible, be carried on by daylight. The microscope is to be placed near a window facing north, and for choice the mirror should reflect light from a white cloud ; in ordinary work direct sunlight is never used. If artificial illumination is required, an ordinary petroleum lamp with a flat flame, a Welsbach light, or an incandescent electric lamp with a ground- glass shade are most suitable. The microscope should stand on a firm table, and unless objects mounted in fluid are to be observed, the stand should be inclined, so that the head of the observer, who should be seated, is not kept in a strained position. The eye which is not applied to the ocular is to be kept open, in order that the observer's accommodation may be as completely relaxed as possible. An examination should commence with a low- power objective—a |-inch or a No. III. if using, say, a Leitz objective—and a low-power ocular, as, for instance, a No. I. or No. II. The object mounted on a slide and covered with a cover- glass is placed on the stage, and a diaphragm of medium size having been inserted, the object must now be properly illuminated. If no con- densor is used, the plane mirror is to be em- ployed with low-power objectives, the concave mirror being reserved for the ^-inch or other high-power objective, and the axis of the mirror is so adjusted that the greatest amount of light is reflected on to the object. This is then focussed by the coarse and then by the fine adjustment. If a more highly-magnified view of the object be then desired, the microscope tube is slightly raised from the stage and the higher-power objective, e.g. the J-inch, is re- volved on the nose-piece till it is brought into position, when the object is once more focussed. If a condensor be employed, as is always desirable, the light is invariably to be reflected from the plane mirror, except when very low-400 MICROSCOPE, THE power objectives are in use. The light being reflected from the plane mirror on to the object, the latter is carefully focussed, a suitable dia- phragm is inserted, and the rays of light re- flected from the mirror must then be accurately focussed in the plane of the object, and to do so the condensor is to be raised or lowered until the image of the source of light is seen as sharply as possible at the same time as the accurately focussed object. When the con- densor is used with artificial light, the object is first focussed and the image of the flame is directed to the middle of the field, and the condensor is then lowered or raised until the image of the flame is focussed in the plane of the object. The object can then be studied with the greatest precision ; but for most pur- poses it is more convenient if the condensor be lowered until the field is evenly illuminated. With an oil-immersion objective the condensor and plane mirror are always to be used. The slide is placed on the stage so that the optical axis of the microscope coincides with the centre of the cover-glass, on which a drop of cedar oil is now placed. The tube of the microscope is then lowered until the objective is observed to touch the oil. The observer then looks through the microscope, throws the light from the mirror on to the object, and carefully racks down the microscope tube until the object comes into view, when the coarse adjustment is discarded and the object focussed by means of the fine adjust- ment. The illumination has now to be regu- lated so that the rays of light passing through the condensor shall unite in the plane of the oliject, and to do so it is convenient to employ the method of " maximum illumination," which consists in simultaneously regulating with the left hand the position of the condensor, and with the right hand the mirror in such a manner that the centre of the field is illuminated as brightly as possible. The same result can be obtained by removing the ocular and, whilst looking down the tube of the microscope, simul- taneously regulating the condensor and mirror so that the uppermost lens of the objective is most clearly illuminated, the centre of the illuminated portion corresponding to the centre of the lens. After replacing the ocular the illumination of the field will then be found to be as correct as it was by the previous method. As regards the diaphragm to be employed in each instance : if objects which are diiTerentiated solely or chiefly by diff^erent refractive indices— for example, bacteria suspended in fluid—are to be observed, the iris diaphragm is to be contracted ; whereas if objects are to be recog- nised by their colour, the diaphragm must be opened as widely as possible. In order to as- certain whether full use is being made of the aperture of the objective, the observer removes the ocular and notes whether the uppermost lens of the objective is illuminated to its margins, or whether only the central portion is illumi- nated. The Care of the Microscope.—The instrument when not in use should be protected from dust by a glass cover. It is convenient to have a cord running in a pulley fixed to the ceiling and to attach the upper end of the glass cover to one extremity of the cord, whilst a piece of lead of the same weight as the cover is sus- pended freely from the other end. The cover can thus be raised off' the microscope and again lowered with great facility. Dust and stains on the stand should be removed by a fine clean cloth; alcohol should never be applied for the purpose of cleansing the stand, as it will remove the lacquer from the brasswork. If the joints require oiling, clock oil is suitable for the purpose. Objectives should be examined both before and after use in order to ascertain whether they are clean. This is preferably done with the aid of a pocket lens, but the ordinary low-power objective serves equally well for the same purpose and is always at hand. Dust on the ocular is detected by rotating the latter in the draw-tube. If on so doing the dust particles remain in an unchanged position in the field they are probably on the objective, and are removed by means of a fine, soft, linen rag, or piece of chamois leather which has been thoroughly washed. If a dry cloth prove insufficient to cleanse the lens, it should be wiped with a cloth moistened with distilled water, or a little alcohol or benzine. Xylol should not be used, as it tends to act on the balsam cementing the lenses. After using the oil-immersion objective it should always be cleaned and dried with a small piece of cotton wool or fine linen. M i C r O S O in i a,. — Abnormal smallness either of the whole body or of one or more parts; dwarfism. See Achondroplasia ; Dwarfism ; Atrophy. Microsporidia.—A genus of the Sporozoa. See Parasites {Protozoa, Sporozoa). MicrOSpOrOll.—A fungus, the cause of several skin diseases, e.g. the microsporon furfur of tinea versicolor, the microsporon Audouini of tinea tonsurans, and the microsporon minu- tissimum of tinea erythrasma. See Skin, Parasites {Introductory). Microstomia or iVIicrostomus.— Abnormal narrowness of the oral aperture with smallness of the lips; it may be met with in association with other deformities of the face, such as micrognathus, microtia, and cyclopia. See Palate {Congenital Malformations of the Mouth, Microstoma). iViicrotia.—Abnormal smallness of the outer ear.MICROTOME 401 Microtome. — An instrument for the cutting of thin sections of tissues which have been hardened by freezing or imbedded in paraffin. See Post-mortem Methods {Micro- scopical). Microtrichia,.—Unusual fineness of the hair. Micturition. Introductory .... . 401 Physiology of Mictv/rition . 401 Frequency .... . 401 Retention .... . 401 Incontinence—• In Children . 402 In Adults . 402 Diminished Stream . . 402 See also Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus Vesicae); Children, Clinical Ex- AMiMATiON {Urinary System); Gynecology, Diagnosis in ; Hematuria ; Hemoglobinuria ; Hysteria ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Measles {Symptoms, Frequency of Micturition); Pelvis {Pelvic Peritonitis); Physiology, Ex- cretion {Excretion of Urine); Pregnancy, Physiology {Frequent Micturition); Prostate Gland {Inflammation, Hypertrophy, Symptoms); Puerperium, Physiology {Bladder); Urethra, Diseases of ; Urination, Disorders of ; Urine, Pathological Changes in ; Urine, Bacteria in. Introductory. — Under normal circumstances in the healthy adult the act of micturition is performed about four times in the twenty-four hours, and the interval of sleep is exempt from the necessity of the individual voiding urine. While this is so, we must note that the influence of habit is capable of modifying this function without of necessity indicating a diseased state. More especially is this so in the female sex, where the bladder is relatively more capacious, and in whom custom induces less frequent micturition. At birth the infant may pass water very shortly after birth, as the urine is secreted during the later months, but not in- frequently the infant passes the first twenty-four hours without micturition. During the early months of life the normal condition is one of incontinence. During the first eighteen months the infant passes water usually about twice every hour, except during sleep, when the urine may be retained for two or even three hours. As the child grows the intervals between micturition lengthen. In this respect much depends on careful training. With judicious nursing an infant acquires some control over its bladder within a year or eighteen months. Physiology of Micturition.—A knowledge of the physiology of the act is essential for a due understanding of the disorder. The mechanism concerned in normal micturition, which is a voluntary act, is as follows:—There are two vol. VI centres in the himbar region of the cord—-a sphincter centre and a micturition centre, the former controlling the sphincter at the neck of the bladder, the latter influencing the muscle fibres of the bladder wall. These two centres are in turn under the control of higher centres in the cerebrum. When the bladder gets dis- tended the mucous membrane is stimulated, and an apparent impulse passes through its nerves into the cord to the sensorium. When this is perceived a double impulse is emitted from the brain to the centres in the cord : one to inhibit the sphincter centre's activity and so allow of relaxation of the neck of the bladder, the other to stimulate the micturition centre and so bring about expulsion of the bladder contents. In the case of involuntary micturition the mechan- ism is somewhat difl'erent. This takes place independently of the con- trolling influence of the higher centres. When the bladder gets distended the impulses gradu- ally accumulate in strength, and, acting on the nerve endings in the neck of the bladder, in themselves suffice to lead to relaxation of the sphincter, and at the same time induce partial stimulation of the muscular fibres of the bladder. Frequency of Micturition.—The first point to emphasise about this symptom is the fact of its being one both of surgical and medical import- ance. If we apply the knowledge of the physio- logy of the act just given we will readily under- stand that any abnormal state of the mucous membrane of the bladder may induce this symptom, which is often a distressing one. Of these the more common causes are cystitis, enlargement and other affections of the prostate, urethritis, stricture, and the presence of foreign bodies, e.g. calculi. In women, in addition to the actual state of the urinary track itself, we have to consider the operation of a number of other causes acting primarily outside the urinary track. These include malpositions of the uterus, tumours in the pelvis, early and late pregnancy, etc. We must also remember the more strictly medical aspects, and investigate carefully the state of the kidneys and also the general state of nutrition. If we mention chronic nephritis and calciilous pyelitis, we have good examples of kidney lesions that may be the causal factors, and in the various forms of diabetes, hysteria, etc., we find constitutional states that may be the determining factors of the condition. A statement of these facts will clearly indicate the necessity of very carefully investigating each case along general as well as special lines. We must further remember that in later life it is by no means uncommon to find cases of frequency that are dependent, partly on a local condition, e.g. enlarged prostate, and partly on a more general state, e.g. renal cirrhosis. This point will influence alike the diagnosis, prognosis, and the treatment. Retention of v/rine is the result of mechanical 26MICTURITION 402 obstruction, and must not be confounded with suppression, which implies a failure of secretion (see " Urine "). Its most common cause is a stricture of the urethra (q.v.). Enlargement of the prostate may cause retention at one time, frequency of micturition at another, and incon- tinence at a third. In the eax-ly months of pregnancy retroversion of the gravid uterus may cause complete retention, which may also occur after an operation such as for haemorrhoids, torn perineum, and the like. In children a tight prepuce or an impacted calculus, or rectal irritation by thread-worms, may be causal factors. The first-named is specially to be noted, as well-marked cases of hydronephrosis have been known to arise as a result of this form of obstruction. Incontinence of Urine in Children.—This is a common condition in children. It is most fre- quently seen in nervous and emotional children, but is also seen in those with no obvious personal nor hereditary neurotic tendencies. As a rule, with advancing years the tendency gradually lessens and then finally disappears, but in some instances it continues without change until puberty and then gradually disappears. If persistent, the possibility of the existence of some congenital defect in the bladder or urethra should be kept in mind ; this holds good espe- cially for girls. Mention need only be made of the existence of incontinence as a symptom in many severe organic diseases of the nervous system. In these diseases the incontinence may be due to a disturbance of the centres and nerve roots in the lumbar cord, or to a loss of the higher controlling mechanism. In many cases a disturbance of both these functions prevails. Nocturnal Incontinence.—This is the most troublesome form of the disorder. In spite of all precautions that may be taken, and even if the child is most anxious to assist in the matter, a qviantity of urine is passed involun- tarily during the night. It is important to emphasise the fact that in the great majority, if not indeed in all of these cases, the child can- not be blamed, and therefore should not be in any way punished for this misfortune. What appears to occur is that during sleep, whenever the bladder becomes even slightly distended, a reflex action is set up, and involuntary micturition occurs. Not infrequently the ten- dency is aggravated by local irritation, e.g. phimosis, worms, or injudicious dietary, with resulting irritation of the solar plexus. In a highly-strung child any emotional excitement before going to bed will predispose to its occurrence. The treatment of this class of case is simple, but sometimes unsatisfactory. In the first place, we must look for any source of local irritation such as already indicated, and if that be present it must be suitably corrected. If nothing of the kind can be made out, we may try one or more of the following, which are all useful:—(a) Three to ten, or more, grains of bromide of potassium or sodium in conjunction with five to ten minims of tinct. belladonna in a little glycerine and water half an hour before bedtime; {b) a belladonna plaster applied to the lumbar region ; (c) a hot fomentation applied to the belly. The patient should also be made to sleep on a slightly filled water-cushion. Incontinence in Adults.—True incontinence must be distinguished from that due to dribbling from an over-distended organ. An examination of the hypogastric region will readily reveal the latter condition. In elderly men this symptom is in the great majority of instances due to irritation from enlarged prostate, and calls for treatment by the use of the catheter. In this class of case, however, it is surprising what benefit may be obtained by educating the patient to fully empty the bladder. This is a point of considerable value, and its recognition and practice will often be attended with gratifying results ; its value to the patient is great, not only for the temporary relief afforded him, but from the diminution of the risks associated with a catheter life. In women care must be taken not to confuse a distended bladder with an ovarian or par- ovarian cyst. True incontinence is a frequent symptom in cases of gross lesions in the central nervous system. Its recognition is easy, and its treat- ment is apt to be as unsatisfactory as that of the primary disease. Diminished Size of Stream.—This may arise from a congenital narrowing of the external meatus, or from an enlarged prostate, or stricture of the urethra, interfering with the discharge of a normal volume of water. Other factors bearing on this are considered in other articles (see " Heematuria," " Urethra "). Pain on Micturition.—A consideration of the various conditions giving rise to painful micturi- tion (dysuria) falls outside the scope of this article. As the determining factors are of local origin they are found discussed in other sections (see " Bladder," " Urethra," " Heematuria," etc.). Mid-a—In compound words mid- signifies middle; e.g. midbrain (mesencephalon; see Embryology), midriff (the diaphragm), and midsternum (the mesosternum). Middle Ear. See Ear, Examination OF; Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane ; Ear, Acute Inflammation of Middle Ear ; Ear, Middle Ear, Chronic Suppuration ; Ear, Middle Ear, Chronic Non-suppurative Disease. See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth ; Vertigo ; etc. Mid-pa.in.—Pain in the pelvis (uterine or ovarian) occurring at the midtime between twoMID- menstruations; Mittelschmerz. See Gyne- cology, Diagnosis in {Menstruation); Men- struation AND ITS Disorders {Dysmenoi^rhoea, Intermenstrual Pain). Midwifery. See Ablactation; Abor- tion ; Accidental Hemorrhage ; Accouchement Force ; Accoucheur ; Acrania ; Afterbirth ; After-Pains ; Agalactia ; Agnathy ; Ambu- lant ; Amnion ; Amputations, Intra-uterine ; Anesthesia {Ether in Obstetrics); Anen- cephalus ; Anideus ; Antenatal Pathology ; Aprosopus ; Asphyxia {Neiv-born Children); Assimilation - Pelvis ; Axis-Traction ; Bag; Ballottement ; Bandl's Ring ; Basilysis ; Basio- tribe ; Binder ; Bipolar Version ; Birth ; Blastula ; Bossi's Dilator ; Breech ; Broad Ligament ; Brow Cases ; Buist's Method ; Cesarean Section ; Calliper - Compasses ; Canalisation ; Caput Succedaneum ; Cebo- cephalus ; Cephalhematoma ; Cephalotomy ; Cbphalotripsy ; Cervix Uteri ; Childbed ; Chorion ; Cleidotomy ; Coffin-Birth ; Colos- trum ; Concealment of Birth ; Conjugate; Convulsions ; Cord ; Corpore Conduplicato ; Crede Method ; Cross - Birth ; Crotchet ; Curettage ; Cyclopia ; Cyllosomus ; Decapita- tion ; Decidua ; Decollator ; Delivery ; Denman's Spontaneous Evolution ; Dermatitis Exfoliativa Neonatorum ; Detachment of Placenta ; Dicephalus ; Diprosopus ; Dry Labour ; Dystocia ; Ecbolics ; Eclampsia ; Ectopic Gestation ; Edocephalus ; Embryo ; Embryology ; Embryulcia ; Epignathus ; Episi- ORRHAPHY; Episiotomy ; Ergot ; Eugenics ; EUTOCIA ; EXENCEPHALUS ; ExOMPHALOS ; FaL- LOPiAN Tubes ; Flat Pelvis ; Fcetus and Ovum ; Fontanelles ; Forceps ; Funis ; Galac- TAGOGUE; Gastroschisis ; Gemelli Coaliti ; Generation, Female Organs of ; Germinal Pathology; Gestation; Hematometra; "Har- lequin Fcetus " ; Head-Locking ; Hebotomy ; Hemicephaly ; Hemipagus ; Hermaphroditism ; Heteropagus ; Hook ; Hydatid Mole ; Hydro- cephalus ; Hydrorrhcea ; Hyperemesis ; Hy- POGNATHUS; Hysterectomy ; Hysterotomy ; Induction of Labour ; Infant Feeding ; Ini- bncephaly ; Inversion ; Involution ; Ischio- PAGUs; Jacquemier's Test; Janiceps; Justo- MAJOR AND JUSTO-MINOR PeLVIS ; LaBIA ; Labour, Physiology ; Labour, Pathology ; Labour, Operations ; Lactation ; Lahs' Theory ; Laparotomy ; Lecanopagus; Lie ; Lingering Labour ; Liquor Amnii ; Lochia ; " Longings " ; Lying-in ; Lysol ; Maieutics ; Malacosteon ; Malposition ; Mammary Gland ; Management; Mania, Puerperal; Maternal Impressions ; Maternity ; Mechanism ; Me- conium ; Medicine, Forensic {Pregnancy, etc.); Meningocele ; Menopause ; Menstruation ; Mermaid Fcetus; Metacyesis ; Midwives ; Milk ; Molar Pregnancy ; New-born Infant, Dis- eases ; Nubility ; Obstetrics ; Osteomalacia ; PAIN 403 Ovaries ; Parovarium ; Parturition ; Passages ; "Passenger"; Pelvis; Perineum; Phenomena; Phlegmasia ; Pica ; Placenta ; Plural Preg- nancy ; PoRRo's Operation ; Position ; Post- Maturity; Postpartum Hemorrhage; "Powers"; " Prague Grasp "; Precipitate Labour ; Preg- nancy, Physiology ; Pregnancy, Pathology ; Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases of the Fcetus ; Prematurity ; Presentations ; Pre- ternatural ; Prolapsus Funis ; Pseudocyesis ; Puberty ; Pubiotomy ; Puerperium, Physio- logy ; Puerperium, Pathology ; Quickening ; " Restitution " ; Retention ; Rigidity ; Robert Pelvis ; Roederer ; Satchel, Obstetric ; Sclerema Neonatorum ; Sepsis ; Smellie Grasp ; Spina Bifida ; Spondylotomy ; Still-Birth ; Subinvolution ; Superfcetation ; Symphysio- tomy ; Synclitism ; Syncytium ; Teratology ; Third Stage Hemorrhage ; Tractor ; Trans- verse Presentations ; Triplets ; Twins ; Um- bilical Cord ; Uterus ; Vagina ; Vectis ; Version ; Vertex Presentations ; Vulva ; Walcher's Position ; Wet-Nursing ; " White Leg." Midwives. Derivation and Definition . . . 403 Historical Sketch .... 404 Legislation ...... 404 Midwives Act of 1902 .... 406 Central Midwives Board . . . 407 Conditions of Certification . . . 407 Regulation, Restriction, and Super- vision OF Practice of Midwives . 408 Midwife and her Appliances . . 408 Duties to Patient and Child . . 409 Regulations as to calling in of a Medical Practitioner . . .410 Notifications by Midwives . . .411 Penal Clauses and Results of Act . 412 Derivation and Definition.—The etymology of the word midwife is not clearly ascertaineci. Probably mid has the meaning of the preposi- tion with, and the word therefore signifies anyone (male or female) who is with, the woman {wyf) at the time of her confinement; if this be so, then the word has its analogies in the German beifmu and the Spanish co-madre. But it is possible that mid has an adjectival meaning and that midivife, therefore, indicates " a woman by whose means the delivery is effected." But even if the word originally did not necessarily imply that the midwife was a woman, it soon came to be used only in the sense of a female accoucheur, a woman who assisted other women at their labours; for when men began occasionally to practise mid- wifery the name man-midwife was coined to express the ofiice. The word "accoucheuse" is comparatively modern. From midwife, of course, comes midwifery, the art of helping women in their labours, or obstetrics. The latter term is derived from the Latin obstetrix.MIDWIVES 404 a midwife, which literally means one who stands in front of or over against (06, stare), and refers to the former practice of the assistant standing or sitting in front of the parturient patient and receiving the infant as it was born. Obstetrics is now the name often given to the art and science of midwifery, and obstetrician is the noun ; sometimes " female obstetrician " is used as equivalent to midwife or accoucheuse. Historical S KETCH. — No doubt women as- sisted women at their confinements from the earliest periods of the world's history, and men —priests, priest-physicians, or surgeons—were called in to assist only in cases of dire necessity and pressing danger. The midwifes were doubt- less women who had themselves given birth to several children, who had attended many of their relatives in childbed, or who had gathered some rudimentary notions of the art from acting as assistants to other more experienced mid- wives. They had no knowledge of the anatomy of the female generative organs, and their practice, therefore, was one of "rule of thumb," quite empiric. Nevertheless, the midwives were a recognised part of the economy of a nation (as we learn from Exodus i. 15-20), and, no doubt, some of them attained to some degree of skill in their art, although they had no organised teaching and no text-books. We may form some idea of the low level to which the practice of midwifery had sunk in Europe in the sixteenth century from the perusal of Rhodion's De Partu Homiids, a work translated into English in 1540 by Jonas and revised later by Raynalde. This work, which was termed the Byrth of Mankynde, professes to meet a crying want and to give midwives a means of learning better how to treat the women in labour who constituted their patients. But if the Byrth of Mankynde was an advance upon earlier obstetric practice, we can only lament the ignorance of previous midwives and the gross mismanagement that cases of even normal labour must have suffered from; for, assuredly, this book, even as it is " newly set forth, corrected, and augmented " by Raynalde, is full of amazing blunders and of meddlesome and dangerous practices and manipulations.^ It was more than time that the midwives should receive some training in their art. But there was no one capable of giving such teach- ing; for men were not allowed by public opinion to act as attendants upon women in normal labours, and the experience they gained at the difficult cases was purely surgical, resolving itself into the practice of dismember- ment of the foetal body. About the middle of the sixteenth century, however, a change began to take place. Pare introduced podalic ' The reader will find an account of sixteenth-century midwifery as practised in England in the Jmirnal of Obstetrics and Gyncecologij of the British Empire for October 1906 and September and October 1907. version into obstetric practice in 1550, and Louyse Bourgeois (1563-1636), the famous mid- wife of the French royal family, was one of the first graduates of a school for midwives established in the Hotel Dieu in Paris. Louyse Bourgeois also published a work on midwifery which helped to raise the standard of the practice of the obstetric art in France. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, however, various occurrences contributed to the introduction of men into the practice of midwifery. The forceps was invented by the Chamberlens, reinvented by Palfyn, and per- fected by Levret (1745) ; scientific treatises on midwifery by physicians (Mauriceau and others) began to appear; and fashion, one of the most powerful influences in social habits and custom, prescribed that women should be attended at their confinements by male physi- cians or surgeons. It is true that more thorough provision for the teaching of midwives was made and that some distinguished midwives (among whom may be named Justine Siege- mundin of Brandenburg, Madame Boivin in France, and Mrs. Jane Sharp and Mrs. Nihell in England) practised the art of obstetrics; but slowly and surely midwifery was passing into the hands of men. The midwives, how- ever, did not easily let the practice slip away from them ; and for many years, in England at least, a fierce struggle was carried on, Mrs. Nihell on the one side and Dr. Smellie on the other waging a wordy war. There is reason to believe that some of the persons attending the lectures on midwifery given by the professor of the subject in the University of Edinburgh were midwives ; and in Scotland the practice of obstetrics seems to have been longer left to women than in England. This university professorship, apparently the first, was insti- tuted in 1726, when Mr. Joseph Gibson was appointed to the post; but although this was so, even towards the close of the eighteenth century " the profession of an accoucheur was esteemed very unbecoming for a gentleman." The arrival of the nineteenth century saw the practice of midwifery pass almost entirely into the hands of regular medical practitioners, the midwives as a rule retaining only attend- ance upon women of the poorer classes or those living in out-of-the-way districts. The admis- sion of women to the medical profession towards the close of the century began to restore some of the work among the better classes to female hands ; but, simultaneously therewith, came the Midwives Registration Act for the better training of midwives and for the regulating of their practice, which has had so profound an influence upon this whole question. This leads me to refer to the legislation on the subject. Legislation for Midwives. — The earliest legislation regarding midwives in England seems to have had reference to their ecclesi-405 MIDWIVES astical rather than their obstetric duties, for in cases of emergency and in the absence of the priest the midwife might be required to baptise the new-born infant. There is an ancient injunction to the clergy by the Archbishop of York, which reads : "All curates must openly in the church teach and instruct the mydwiefes of the very words and form of baptisme to thentents that they may use them perfectly well and none oder." It is in this connection that the practice of the licensing of mid wives by bishops apparently had its origin. Here, at anyrate, is the oath administered by the Arch- bishop of Canterbury to Eleoner Pead in 1567 when he licensed her as a midwife : " I, Eleoner Pead, admitted to the office and occupation of a midwife, will faithfully and diligently exercise the said office according to such cunning and knowledge as God hath given me, and that I will be ready to help and aid as well poor as rich women being in labour and travail of child, and will always be ready both to poor and rich in exercising and executing of my said office. Also I will not permit or suffer that any woman being in labour or travail shall name any other to be the father of her child, than only he who is the right and true father thereof ; and that I will not suffer any other body's child to be set, brought, or laid before any woman delivered of child in the place of her natural child, so far forth as I can know or understand. Also I will not vise any kind of sorcery or incantation in the time of the travail of any woman; and that I will not destroy the child born of any woman, nor cut, nor pull off the head thereof, or otherwise dismember or hurt the same, or suffer it to be hurt or dismembered by any manner of way or means. Also that at the ministration of the sacrament of baptism in the time of necessity, I will use apt and accus- tomed words of the same sacrament—that is to say, these words following, or the like in effect: / christen thee in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, and none other pro- fane words. And that in such time of necessity, in baptising any infant born, and pouring water upon the head of the said infant, I will use pure and clear water, and not any rose or damask water, or water made of any confection or mixture ; and that I will certify the curate of the parish church of every such baptising." At the Hampton Court Conference (1604), however, it was decided to limit the perform- ance of baptism to persons in orders, and after this date the midwives' oath was no doubt remodelled. The next legislation was to deal with their obstetric qualifications, but it was to be long delayed. It is interesting to find that near the close of the sixteenth century there was an agitation for the supervision by the bishops of the medical training of midwives. In Boorde's Brevyary of Health (quoted by Aveling, in his English Midivives, p. 14) there is the suggestion that "the Byshoppe, with the consent of a doctor of physick, ought to examine her (the midwife), and to instruct her in that thynge that she is ignorant; . . . for and this were used in Englonde there shulde not halfe so many women myscary, nor so many chyldren perish in every place in Englonde as there be. The Byshop ought to loke on this matter." In the early part of the seventeenth century Dr. Peter Chamberlen proposed " that some order may be settled by the State for the instruction and civil govern- ment of midwives," and, the State having failed to respond, Chamberlen's son tried him- self to get the project carried out some thirty years later (1646); but these obstetricians were far in advance of their age, and their attempts were futile. During the eighteenth century there was no legislation for midwives, but better books for their instruction began to appear; and the example of the immortal Harvey in interesting himself in the problems of parturition began to be followed by other scientific men with the result, as we have seen, that better-class obstetric practice began to pass into the hands of the medical profession. But the need for some plan of training and certify- ing midwifes was none the less clamant. The notorious Mrs. Cellier (of " meal-tub plot" fame) had a wonderful scheme (1687) for the establish- ment of a "corporation of skilful midwives," and a royal hospital with a principal physician or man-midwife " to examine all extraordinary accidents, and once a month at least read a publick lecture to the whole society of licensed midwives, who are all obliged to be present at it, if not employed in their practice"; but it was quite impracticable. Dr. Mawbray (1725) did much to improve the training and status of the midwife, and James Douglas (1736) proposed, in a more practical fashion than Mrs. Cellier had done, that an hospital be erected " for the reception of two or three hundred women who are big with child, that a proper number of midwomen be appointed to attend them," and that these midwomen should be obliged to attend courses of instruc- tion, should be afterwards examined, and receive a certificate if found to deserve it, etc. Similar propositions were made by Manningham (1739), Counsell (1752), Blunt (1793) and others (1795); but the State took no action. The result was that as the Church had ceased to license midwives, and as the medical faculty had not taken upon itself the duty of doing so, a large class of midwives were found in practice some of whom it is true had received training but many had not, and there was no way of distinguishing the trained from the untrained. At the beginning of the nineteenth centiiry the need for legislation was urgent, but it was not given effect to till the beginning of the twentieth century. In 1803 regulations for theMIDWIVES 406 training and control of midwives were adopted in France, in 1810 in Austria and in Sweden and Norway, in Belgium in 1818, and in Hol- land in 1865. It is true that in 1813 an at- tempt was made to get the British Parliament to pass enactments "for the examination and control of midwives, making it penal for any woman to practise without a license, granted after examination"; but no legislative result followed. In due time Medical Acts were passed, but the portion relating to midwives was dropped out of them. During the last decade of the century, however, it became plain that legislation could not be much longer delayed. Select committees of the House of Commons met and reported in 1892 and 1893, and the General Medical Council in 1889 and 1893 was strongly in favour of the passing of laws regulating the education and super- vision of midwives. Legislative efforts were made to obtain the registration of midwives in 1898 and 1899, but it was not till 1902, one hundred years after France had led the way, that England got its Midwives Registration Bill. It came into operation on April 1, 1903. While these attempts toward legislation had been going on, the education of midwives had been carried on by the staffs of the various maternity hospitals, some of which gave certifi- cates of which some were based upon examina- tions ; but it was quite possible for ignorant women to commence practising without giving or being required to give to the public any such assurance of capability or skill. In 1872 the Obstetrical Society of London began to make arrangements for the examining of women desiring to become midwives; in that year eight women applied, of whom six passed and two failed to obtain the L.O.S. "diploma." In 1873, twelve women applied and eleven passed. For the next five years the numbers applying were very small; but by the end of 1894 there were over fovu- hundred women endeavouring annually to obtain this certificate of efficiency, and the total number on the register was 2166. The Society in its diploma certified that the bearer was a "skilled midwife competent to attend Natural Labours," and it required from each candidate a certificate of good moral character, one showing that she was not under twenty-one years of age, and proof of having personally attended not less than twenty-five labours under supervision satisfactory to the Board of Examiners. Each candidate had also to pass a written and oral and practical ex- amination in certain subjects in obstetrics, including natural labour, the indications of abnormal labours, the htemorrhages, antiseptics, and the management of the puerperal state. Exception was taken by the General Medical Council to the wording of the diploma as sug- gesting that the holder had a registrable quali- fication ; but the Society did good pioneer work in the training of midwives until the passing of the Bill in 1902. The maternity hospitals in Scotland also gave certificates to their pupils after examination, and elsewhere laudable efforts were made to improve the training of monthly nurses; but till 1902 there was no control over the practice of inefficient or ignorant women. The Midwives Act was not made applicable to Scotland; but the Scottish maternity hospitals train pupils for passing the examinations re- quired by it, and no doubt its effect has been to raise the standard of education all over the country. Let us now look at the Act itself. The Midwives Act (2 Edw. 7, cap. 17).— The purpose of the Act was to secure the better training of midwives and to regulate their practice. It was enacted by it that " from and after the first day of April 1905, any woman who not being certified under this Act shall take or use the name or title of midwife (either alone or in combination with any other word or words), or any name, title, or description imply- ing that she is certified under this Act, or is a person specially qualified to practise midwifery, or is recognised by law as a midwife, shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding five pounds. From and after the first day of April 1910, no woman shall habitu- ally and for gain attend women in childbirth otherwise than under the direction of a qualified medical practitioner unless she be certified under this Act; any woman so acting without being certified imder this Act shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding ten pounds, provided this section shall not apply to legally qualified medical practitioners, or to anyone rendering assistance in a case of emergency." Certification under the Act im- plies the fulfilment of various conditions to be specified below, and no uncertified person can be employed as a substitute. Further, "the certificate under this Act shall not confer upon any woman any right or title to be registered under the Medical Acts or to assume any name, title, or designation implying that she is by law recognised as a medical practitioner, or that she is authorised to grant any medical certificate, or any certificate of death or of still-birth, or to undertake the charge of cases of abnormality or disease in connection with parturition." The Act also made provision by which an existing midwife might during 1903 and 1904 be certified if she held a certificate from various institutions and if she had been for at least one year in bona fide practice as a midwife, and bore a good character. The Act then joroceeded to deal with the Con- stitution and duties of the Central Midwives Board (C.M.B.), with appeals from its decisions, with fees and expenses, with the Midwives' Roll, with the local supervision of midwives, with notification of practice, with penalties for ob- taining certificates by false representation, etc. We shall now look at some of the rules407 MIDWIVES and regulations which have emerged from this Act. The Central Midwives Board.—The Mid- wives Act created a Central Midwives Board con- sisting of (1) four registered medical practi- tioners, of whom the Royal College of Physicians, the Royal College of Surgeons, the Society of Apothecaries, and the Incorporated Midwives' Institute each appoint one; (2) two persons appointed by the Lord President of the Council, of whom one is a woman; and (3) three persons of whom the Association of County Councils, Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute of Nurses, and the Royal British Nurses' Association each appoint one. The individual members of the Board at present are named below :— The Board shall meet on the last Thursday in each month : the quorum shall be four ; and at each monthly meeting a financial statement shall be made by the secretary. The duties and powers of the Board include the framing of rules for the training and examining of candidates for the certificate, the appointing of examiners, the fixing of the places where examinations are to be held and of the times when they are to be held, the publication of an annual Roll of Midwives, the removal of names from the Roll, and the issuing and cancelling of certificates. The Board shall also receive reports from the local supervising authorities ("Every council of a county or county borough throughout England and Wales shall, on the commencement of this Act, be the local supervising authority over midwives within the area of the said county or county borough ") regarding the midwives practising in the areas supervised by these authorities. Conditions of Certification. — The condi- tions of admission to the Roll of Midwives, as laid down by the C.M.B., are as follow :—The applicant must supply a certificate of birth or of baptism, or a statutory declaration made by a competent person, showing that she (the applicant) is not luider twenty-one years of age, and, where the candidate has been married, the certificate of marriage as well. She must also send in a certificate of good moral character which must be worded according to the form supplied by the Board. She must show certi- ficates to the eff'ect that she has had the train- ing prescribed by the Board, and the certificates must be as follow :— Form III.—Certificate of Attendance on Cases. (See Section C 1 (1) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has, under my supervision, and to my satisfaction, attended and watched the progress of not fewer than twenty labours, making abdominal and vaginal examinations during the course of labour, and personally delivering the patient. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Position and authority for signing Signature of applicant Lord President of the Council, Lord President of the Council. Royal College of Physicians. Royal College of Surgeons. Society of Apothecaries. Incorporated Midwives' Institute. Association of County Councils. Queen Victoria's Jubilee Institute for Nurses. Royal British Nurses' Association. 3n House, Westminster, S. W. Form IV.—Certificate of Attendance during the Lying-in Period. (See Section C 1 (2) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has, under my supervision, and to my satisfaction, nursed twenty lying-in women during the ten days following labour. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Position and authority I for signing j Signature of applicant Form V.—Certificate of having Attended a Course of Instruction. (See Section C 1 (3) above.) I certify that (to whom this certificate refers) has attended, to mj satisfaction, a course of instruction in the subjects enumerated in Rule C 4, extending over a period of not less than three months, and consisting of not less than fifteen lectures, and has shown that she possesses sufficient elementary education to enable her to read and to take notes of cases. Dated this day of 19 Name Address Professional Qualifications Position and authority ) for signing j Signature of applicant MEMBERS. W. J. Sinclair, M.D. Miss Jane Wilson F. H. Champneys, M.D. (Chairman) J. Ward Cousins, F.R.C.S. E. Parker Young, M.R.C.S. W. R, Dakin, M.D. . H. G. FORDHAM, D.L., J.P. . . Miss Rosalind Paget .... ^ Mrs. Josephine Latter . . . ) s. Secretary—G. W. Duncan, Esq., Caxtc408 MIDWIVES Forms III. and IV. may be signed "either by a registered medical practitioner or by the Chief Midwife, or, in the absence of such an officer, by the matron of an institution recog- nised by the Board, or, in the case of a poor-law institution, by the matron, being a Midwife certified under the Midwives Act, or a super- intendent nurse, certified in like manner, and appointed under the Nursing-in-Workhouses Order, 1897, and attached to such an institution, or by a Midwife certified under the Midwives Act and approved by the Board for the purpose." Form V. must be signed by a registered medical practitioner recognised by the Board as a teacher. Having satisfied the Board regarding these matters, the candidate gives notice to the secretary of the C.M.B. of her intention to enter for the next examination at least three weeks before the date fixed for that examination, and pays the necessary fee (one guinea for the first appearance, and fifteen shillings if she have previously appeared and failed to pass). The examinations (the dates of the holding of which are publicly announced) are partly oral and practical and partly written, and a want of acquaintance with the ordinary subjects of elementary education may be sufficient ground for rejection. The following subjects are in- cluded in the examination : («) The elementary anatomy of the female pelvis and generative organs; (b) pregnancy and its principal com- plications, including abortion ; (c) the symp- toms, mechanism, course and management of natural labour; (d) the signs that a labour is abnormal; (e) hajmorrhage: its varieties and the treatment of such ; (/) antiseptics in mid- wifery and the way to prepare and use them; (g) the management of the puerperal patient, including the use of the clinical thermometer and of the catheter; (h) the management (including the feeding) of infants, and the signs of the diseases which may develop during the first ten days; (i) the duties of the midwife as described in the regulations; (j) obstetric emergencies and how the midwife should deal with them imtil the arrival of a doctor. This will include some knowledge of the drugs commonly needed in such cases, and of the mode of their administration (vide Regidation of Practice of Ifidwives); (Z-) puerperal fevers : their nature, causes, and symptoms; (l) the disinfection of person, clothing and appliances; (m) the principles of hygiene as regards the home, food-supply, and person ; and (n) the care of children born apparently lifeless. If the candidate successfully passes her examination, she shall have her name entered by the secretary on the Roll of Midwives (which is alphabetical, is printed in one single list, and is published annually), having received a cer- tificate the wording of which is as follows (vide Form II.) :— Form II.—Central Midwives Board. (2 Edw. 7. c. 17.) No Date We hereby certify that having passed the examination of the Central Midwives Board, and having otherwise complied with the rules and regula- tions laid down in pursuance of the Midwives Act, 1902, is entitled by law to practise as a midwife in accordance with the provisions of the said Act and subject to the said rules and regulations. I Members I of the ) Board. Secretary. She has now the right to place after her name the words "Certified Midwife," but no abbrevia- tion in the form of initial letters (e.g. CM., or, still less, C.M.B.) is permitted, or any other description of the qualification. Regulation, Restriction, and Supervision op THE Practice of Midwives.—The Central Mid- wives Board has laid down certain directions to midwives regarding their persons, their instru- ments, and their duties. The supervision of the midwives is carried out by the local supervising authority, which in some large towns (e.g. in Manchester) employs an Executive Officer (who may be a qualified medical woman, as in Man- chester) to see that the requirements of the Act are fulfilled, i.e. to visit the midwives systemati- cally and irregularly; to inspect their homes, dresses, and bag of appliances; to see that their records are properly kept; to take charge of notifications of still-births, of deaths in women or child before a medical practitioner is called in, of puerperal fevers, and of other infectious diseases; to inspect the mode of practice of midwives as occasion, offers; to record all breaches of the rules, etc. (a) Directions concerning the Person of the Midwife and her Appliances. — The midwife must be scrupulously clean in every way, because the smallest particle of decomposing material may set up puerperal fevers. She must wear a dress of washable material, and over it a clean washable apron; the sleeves of the dress should be so made that they can be tucked well up over the elbows. When she is engaged to attend a labour, she ought to pay a visit to the patient at her own house before the confinement and advise as to the personal and general arrangements prepara- tory to the lying-in. An important rule is the following:—A midwife who is attending any case which is septic or in which there are foul- smelling discharges, must not go to another case without first changing her dress and thoroughly cleansing and disinfecting her hands and fore- arms and such appliances as she may have had409 MIDWIVES occasion to use. In Manchester it is the custom to suspend midwives in all cases when puerperal fever has occurred in their practice ; but if the woman has understood and carried out the rules, the suspension is removed as soon as the neces- sary precautions have been taken. The midwife is directed to keep her nails cut short, and to preserve the skin of her hands from chaps and other injuries. When called to a confinement, the midwife must take with her in a bag or basket furnished with a washable lining : (1) an appliance for giving vaginal injections, a different appliance for giving enemata, a catheter, a pair of scissors, and a nail brush; (2) an efficient antiseptic for disinfecting the hands, etc.; (3) an antiseptic for douching in special cases. These requirements of the C.M.B. are hardly detailed enough ; the Manchester authority's recommendations are better. They are:—The bag should have a detachable wash- able lining which must be kept clean, and it should contain (1) a vaginal douche tin or a syphon douche in preference to the ordinary syringe : glass nozzles should be used; (2) an enema syringe carried in a separate box: on no account must the enema syringe be used for vaginal injections, or the vaginal appliance for giving enemas ; (3) a catheter, metal or glass ; (4) a pair of scissors, preferable with detachable blades ; (5) a clinical thermometer ; (6) a nail brush and soap ; (7) stout linen thread or tape for tying the cord: this should be boiled and carried in a bottle ready for use ; (8) an anti- septic for the hands, perchloride of mercury ; (9) an antiseptic for douching, lysol or kresol; (10) an antiseptic for the eyes, boracic acid ; and (11) as a lubricant, glycerine of perchloride of mercury (1 per 1000). The Manchester authority also instructs that the bag should be overhauled every night, that the lining should be changed once a week and at once if soiled, and the bag itself including the handle should be disinfected once a week by washing it with a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 per 1000). It seems almost a pity that a metal tin which can be sterilised is not recommended instead of a bag. The C.M.B. further instructs midwives that before touching the genital organs or their neighbourhood they must on each occasion dis- infect their hands and forearms, and that all instruments and other appliances must be dis- infected, preferably by boiling, before being brought into contact with the patient's generative organs. Special rules are laid down for disinfec- tion after attendance upon a case of puerperal fever or other infectious disease. (b) Directions concerning the Midivife's Duties to her Patie7it.—A midwife in charge of a case of labour must not leave the patient without giving an address by which she can be found without delay ; and after the commencement of the second stage, she must stay with the woman until the expulsion of the placenta, and as long after as may be necessary. In cases where a doctor has been sent for on account of the labour being abnormal, or of there being threatened danger, she must await his arrival and faithfully carry out his instructions. The midwife must wash the patient's external parts with soap and water, and then swab them with an antiseptic solution on the following occasions : {a) before making the first internal examination, (6) after the termination of labour, (c) during the lying-in period, when washing is required, and {d) before passing a catheter. For this purpose the midwife must on no account use ordinary sponges or flannels, but material which can be boiled before use, such as linen, or bui-nt afterwards, such as cotton-wool. No more internal examinations should be made than are absolutely necessary is the rule laid down by the C.M.B. ; but it is questionable whether some effort should not be made to define more accur- ately what'' absolutely necessary " means, for in the case of normal labours it seems hardly necessary to make more than two vaginal examinations in the first stage and one in the second. The Board does not describe how the midwife is to cleanse her hands, but some of the local super- vising authorities do. I quote from one : " The midwife must prepare her arms, hands, and nails in the following manner : First, they are to be washed with warm water and soap, the nails being scrubbed with a nail brush. This must be carried out very carefully : a nail scraper would be found useful. The arms, hands, and nails must then be disinfected by washing in a basin containing perchloride of mercury solution 1 per 1000, the nails being again scrubbed. The hands should be left in the solution not less than two minutes." The placenta and membranes should be examined before they are destroyed, in order to see that they have come away entire. The midwife must remove soiled linen, blood, fasces, urine, and the placenta from the neighbourhood of the patient and fi'om the lying-in room as soon as possible after the labour, and in every case before she leaves the patient's house. The midwife has also duties to perform for her second patient, the child. As soon as the child's head is born, and if possible before the eyes are opened, the eyelids should be carefully cleansed. Lint dipped in a warm solution of boracic acid is a good means of cleansing the eyes. The cord should be carefully tied in two places, and then cut with scissors which have previously been boiled. If the child be born apparently dead, the midwife is to carry out the methods of resuscitation which have been taught her. At birth the infant should be loosely wrapped in a warm blanket until the mother has been seen to and the third stage be over. It should then be examined for the detection of abnormalities. It should next be washed and dressed in front of a fire ; the cordMIDWIVES 410 should be wrapped up in absorbent wool or iodoform gauze, and the dress should be loose but warm. In the puerperium the midwife should visit the patient regularly, take her pulse and temperature, ascertain if she have passed water, cleanse her external parts, and take a note of the amount and odour of the lochial discharge. The first visit should be made within twenty-four hours after the labour, and should be repeated each day for ten days. The midwife should regulate the patient's diet, and order a simple aperient when it is required. She must see to it that the nursing of the child is properly carried out. She should keep a daily record of these various matters. In addition to special rules for the manage- ment of the mother and child, the Board lays down the following general ones:—No midwife shall follow any occupation that is in its nature liable to be a source of infection, or shall (except under the circumstances hereinafter mentioned) undertake the duty of laying out the dead. In no case must a midwife lay out the body of any patient on whom she has not been in attendance at the time of death, or a body upon which a post-mortem examination has been made. A midwife will not transgress this rule if, at the discretion of the local supervising authority she—(a) Prepares for burial the body of a lying-in woman, a still-born child, or an infant dying within ten days; (6) lays out a dead body in a case of non-infectious illness, provided that she is not attending a midwifery case at the time. After laying out a dead body for burial she must undergo adequate cleansing and disinfection. This rule has been revised in the present year (1907), and now reads : " A midwife may prepare for burial the body of a still-born child, provided it is not putrid, if she carries out the following precautions directly after so doing. Her hands and nails must be scrubbed for five minutes in soap and water, and then, after being rinsed in plain water, they must be disinfected in 1-1000 solution of per- chloride of mercury for at least three minutes. She must put on a clean apron before attending any other case. If she does not carry out these precautions she will be held to have committed a breach of the rules. Some local supervising authorities require that no body, except as above stated, can be prepared for burial. Another revised rule is that relating to the giving of drugs. This rule now (1907) reads: " No drug other than a simple aperient or ergot may be given without orders from a doctor in attendance on the case." Formerly, other drugs could be given if they were noted in the midwife's register of cases, with the dose and the time and cause of their administration. Regulations regarding the Calling in of A Medical Practitioner.—The midwife is re- quired to send for medical help in certain cases. This rule necessitates the defining of a " normal labour," but the difficulty is overcome by re- garding it as one in which none of certain morbid conditions (specified below) are present. This is a definition by exclusion, but under the circumstances it is permissible. The general rule is as follows : " In all cases of abortion, of illness of the patient or child, or of any abnor- mality occurring during pregnancy, labour, or lying-in, a midwife must explain that the case is one in which the attendance of a registered medical practitioner is required, and must hand to the husband or nearest relative or friend present the form for sending for medical help properly filled up and signed by her, in order that this may be immediately forwarded to the medical practitioner. If for any reason the services of a registered medical practitioner be not available the midwife must, if the case be one of emergency, remain with the patient and do her best for her until the registered medical practitioner arrives or until the emergency is over. After having complied with the rule as to the summoning of medical assistance, the midwife will not incur any legal liability by remaining on duty and doing her best for the patient." A 1907 addition to this rule is to the effect that the midwife should notify im- mediately to the local supervising authority those cases where the relatives refuse to obtain medical assistance. This rule about sending for medical help is to apply to five groups of cases: " (1) In all cases in which a woman during Pregnancy, Labour, or Lying-in appears to be dying or is dead; (2) in the case of a Pregnant woman, if she be a dwarf or deformed, when there is loss of blood, and when there is any abnormality or complication, such as ex- cessive sickness, pufEness of hands or face, or dangerous varicose veins; (3) in the case of a woman in Labour at or near term, when there is any abnormality or complication, such as a malpresentation, a presentation other than the uncomplicated head or breech, where no presen- tation can be made out, where there is excessive bleeding, where two hours after the birth of the child the placenta and membranes have not been completely expelled, and in serious cases of rupture of the perineum or of other injuries of the soft parts; (4) in the case of a Lying-in woman when there is any abnormality or com- plication such as abdominal swelling and tender- ness, offensive lochia if persistent, rigor with raised temperature, rise of temperature above 100'4° F., with quickening of the pulse for more than twenty-four hours, unusual swelling of the breasts with local tenderness or pain, secondary post-partum haemorrhage, or white leg; and (5) in the case of the child when there is any abnormality or complication such as injuries received during birth, any malforma- tion or deformity in a child which seems likely to live, dangerous feebleness, inflammation of411 MIDWIVES the eyes however slight, serious skin eruptions, and inflammation about the navel." A 1907 alteration of this rule has reference to perineal tears, and reads as follows : " You should regard any tear of the perineum as generally serious, and in all cases the perineum should be care- fully and thoroughly examined immediately after labour." The Central Midwives Board has given very precise directions as to the calling in of medical help, and has enumerated, as has been shown, a long list of conditions in which it is obligatory so to do; hwt no provision has been made for the fulfilment of the conditions so far as the medical profession is concerned, and no directions as to the remuneration of the medical prac- titioner are as much as named. The result has already been the development of a somewhat chaotic state of practice. An amendment to the Act is urgently needed dealing with the question of the payment of fees to medical practitioners called in to abnormal cases. Dr. Niven, Medical Officer of Health for Manchester, in a report on the working of the Act, states that so far only two local supervising authori- ties, those of Liverpool and of Cardiff, have adopted systems of payment, both purely temporary. In the meantime the following resolution has been adopted for Manchester: " That, for the present, medical practitioners in default of payment by the patient, should apply to the Corporation under the Public Health Act, 1875, and any other powers which the Corpora- tion may possess. The Corporation should then enquire into the circumstances of the family, and defray the fee in all cases in which the in- come of the family does not exceed a certain standard rate, depending on its numbers." Now, under the Public Health Act (Sect. 133) payment can only be made in respect of the poorer members of the community, and so the term "poorer persons" has required to be de- fined. This has been done, taking the weekly wage earned as the criterion, and a maximum fee not exceeding £1 : Is. has been fixed for cases of emergency. Of course the difficult cases will be those of puerperal fever, and the probable result all over the country will be to send more of these cases into fever hospitals for treatment; this will probably turn out to be advantageous for the midwives and their patients as well as for the medical practitioner called in, to whom such illnesses must necessarily prove embarrass- ing especially if he have many obstetric engage- ments. A practicable mod^is has been arrived at by the Council of the County Borough of St. Helens, in Lancashire, for dealing with the pay- ment of medical men summoned to assist mid- wives; it will be found fully stated in the British Medical Journal for June 23, 1907, pp. 1548, 1549. The medical man is required to take reasonable means to secure his fee before applying to the Health Committee. The fee for attendance in all cases of urgency and danger to either the mother or the child shall be on the scale of 5s. for a visit, or £1 : Is. when operative interference is required and has been carried out. The fees are not cumulative. Notifications by Midwives to the Local Supervising Authority.—The midwife must send notice to the local supervising avithority if there is any change in her name or address, and she must also fill in special prepared forms notifying any one of the three following occur- rences : (a) Whenever she has advised that a registered medical practitioner should be sent for (in this form she has to state whether the case is urgent or not, and she sends one copy of it to the medical practitioner, one to the local supervising authority within twenty-four hours at the latest, and one she keeps in her own possession) : (5) in all cases in which the death of the mother or of the child occurs before the attendance of a registered medical practitioner (of course this is not a death certificate, and no cause of death is stated upon it); and (c) in all cases of still-birth where a registered medical practitioner is not in attendance (a child is deemed to be still-born when, after being com- pletely born, it has not breathed or shown any sign of life, and in the notification form it has to be stated what its sex was, whether it was full term or premature, what its condition was (macerated or not), and what the presentation was). A new duty which may now fall on the midwife as well as on a medical practitioner is the notification of all bii'ths within thirty-six hours of their occurrence. This is rendered necessary by the passing of the Early Notifica- tion of Births Act (1907), if that Act be adopted by the local authority — the council of a borough or of an urban or rural district. In the first place, the duty falls on the father if he is actually residing in the house where the birth of the child takes place, at the time of its occurrence ; but, failing the father, the doctor or midwife who is present will have to carry it out, under a penalty not exceeding twenty shillings for neglecting to do so. No fee will be paid to the midwife or doctor for making the notification. In addition to making these various notifications, the midwife must keep a register of cases in the following form :— No Date of expected confinement Name and address of patient No. of previous labours and miscarriages Age Date and hour of Midwife's arrival Date and hour of Child's birth Presentation Duration of 1st, 2nd, 3rd stage of labour Complications (if any) during or after labourMIDWIVES 412 Sex of infant Born living or dead Full time or premature—No. of months If Doctor sent for Name of Doctor Date of Midwife's last visit Condition of Mother then. (See Rule 11, above.) Condition of Child then Remarks ^ ' If any drugs, other than a simple aperient, have been administered, state here their nature and duse, the reason for giving them, and the stage of labour when given. Penal Clauses of the Act. — The local supervising authorities have power to in- vestigate charges of malpractice, negligence, or misconduct on the part of any midwife practis- ing within their area, and should a primct, facie case be established, to report the same to the C.M.B. ; they have also power to suspend any midwife from practice, if such siispension ap- pears necessary in order to prevent the spread of infection; and they shall report at once to the Board the name of any midwife practising in their area convicted of an offence. There are full rules of procedure on the removal of a name from the roll, and on the restoration to the roll of a name removed; but it is un- necessary to state them here. There are three penalties differing in severity, viz., censure, caution, and removal; and already cases have occurred under each serving to show that the Act is no dead letter. For instance, at a meeting of the C.M.B. on June 27, 1907, one midwife was censured for not having advised that medical assistance should be sent for in a case of ophthalmia neonatorum, and another one for not having advised that medical assistance should be sent for in a case of breech presenta- tion in a primipara. At the same meeting a midwife was cautioned as to the strict observance of the rules of the Board, and in particular as to those requiring her to notify to the local supervising authority in cases of still-birth, and when medical assistance has been sent for. Results.—The Midwives Act of 1902 must be regarded as, on the whole, a beneficial piece of legislation. There are in it, as has been pointed out, matters requiring fuller definition, and there are others, such as the provision for the payment of medical practitioners whose services are required, which need amendment; but the result of its working cannot fail to be the saving of both maternal and infantile life and the diminution of the frequency of puer- peral fever. Further, the reports of still-births and abortions by trained midwives may give statistical results of no small importance in view of the falling birth-rate and in the absence of a Still-Births Registration Act. The rules of the Central Midwives Board may be obtained from Messrs. Spottiswoode and Co., Ltd., 54 Gracechurch Street, London, E.C. Price, paper, 6d. ; post free, 7d. Mig^raine, or Meg^rim {see also Eye, Clinical Examination of, Symptoms, Phos- phines; Gout, Irregular, Headache ; Headache, Migraine; Hypnotism, Uses; Indigestion, Hemicrania; Liver, Diseases op. Functional; Megrim ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of. Paralysis, Etiology; Puberty, Disturbances of Health, Migraine; Spasm, Ophthalmoplegic; Uraemia, Symptoms), is a paroxysmal form of headache allied to epilepsy and other nervous diseases (vol. iv. p. 61). In its most character- istic form it is unmistakable and readily recog- nised, but in its less developed forms it may be more difficult to differentiate from other forms of headache {q.v.) and neuralgia (q.v.). Alike in its minor and major forms it bears a close relationship to gout (q.v.), a disease in which the uric-acidsemia, so called, is only a symptom and not the cardinal factor that is often supposed. Gowers describes a type of case in which visual disturbance, like that preceding attacks of megrim, occurs frequently during many years as an isolated symptom. The writer has met at least one similar case in a young woman with a pronounced gouty family history, she herself having occasionally suffered from acute gout in its slighter degrees. In this case a cholagogue plus a saline cathartic gives early relief. There is no doubt that the megrim is a toxsemia, and a present desideratum in our knowledge is the state of the blood before, during, and after the paroxysms. Such an investigation would prob- ably throw not a little light on some points in the etiology of the disease. The diagnosis and treatment of the condition is fully considered in another section (see " Headache "). It is perhaps here advisable merely to draw particular attention to the important part probably played by the digestive tract and the liver in the development of this condition. If from any cause the power of the intestine to resist in- vasion by toxines formed by bacteria in the alimentary canal, but not under normal circum- stances absorbed, be lowered, an absorption of these toxic substances may occur, and this absorption may initiate a disturbance in that part of the patient's system that has naturally a low resisting power. A somewhat similar action may induce a state of hepatic inadequacy, which in turn will lead to an aggravation of the symptoms. Hence treatment directed primarily to the bowels and liver is of primary importance, and is more likely to be attended with success than treatment directed specially to nerve tonics and the like. Migrainin. — A preparation containing antipyrin (85 parts), citric acid (6 parts), and caffein (9 parts), used in the treatment of413 MIGRAININ migraine and other toxic headaches ; dose, 15 grains. Migration.—Wandering or passing from one part of the body to another, e.g. when the ovum, set free from the ovary, passes into and down the Fallopian tube, or when white blood corpuscles pass out of the vessels into the tissues in inflammation. By external migration is meant the passage of the ovum from one ovary into the tube of the opposite side, and by internal migration its passage through the tube of the same side into the uterus and thence into the tube of the opposite side. IVIigTOl.—-A proprietary preparation, said to consist of caiTein, sodium bicarbonate, and guaiacetin, used in migraine. iVIiiculiCZ'S Dictum. — The alleged danger of giving a general ansesthetic to a person in whose blood the haemoglobin percentage has fallen below 30. iVIikuliCZ'S Disease. — Enlargement of the salivary, lachrymal, and buccal glands of a chronic nature; it may be associated with enlargement of the spleen. iVIilciioi.—A disinfectant, regarded as a mixture of creasote and petroleum. Miiian's IVIetliod.—A method of measuring the rapidity of coagulation of blood by placing a drop on a glass slide and noting the shape of the coagulating drop when the slide is held vertically. The drop at first is tear-shaped, and when completely coagulated it forms a symmetrical projection; five minutes is the average time under normal circumstances. iViiliaria. See also Rickets {Clinical Features); Skin, Diseases of Sweat and Sebaceous Glands {Miliaria); Skin Diseases OF THE Tropics {Prickly Heat, Miliaria Papu- losa).—Definition.—The term "miliaria" is applied to those cutaneous disorders in which a fine papular, or vesicular, eruption accompanies a visible accumulation of sweat in any portion of the surface of the body. Mention is made in works on dermatology of miliaria crystallina, M. rubra, M. vesiculosa and M. papulosa, but, with the exception of crystallina, they are mere clinical expressions of uncertain pathology. Symptoms.—1. Miliaria Crystallina or Sttda- mina.—-In the course of scarlet fever, typhus, puerperal fever, acute articular rheumatism, and many other febrile and inflammatory dis- eases, we not uncommonly meet with an eruption of vesicles at the so-called critical stage, when an outburst of perspiration follows the tempo- rary arrest of the sudoriparous function. This vesicular eruption is miliaria crystallina or sudamina, and is due merely to the retention of sweat in the ducts immediately beneath the thin, horny cuticle. The vesicles resemble drops of dew inasmuch as they are pellucid and colourless, and are not unaccompanied by hypersemia or inflammation. They provoke no subjective symptoms, although they may develop in large numbers over the neck, chest, and abdomen. The vesicles have no infective power, and once developed, cease to enlarge. In a few days they dry up, the damaged fragments of cuticle fall off", leaving no trace of the eruption. Sudamina is not a special exanthema and has no diagnostic or prognostic importance. 2. Miliaria Rubra.—While it is not yet clear as to what precise morbid condition of the skin this term should be restricted, M. rubra iindoubtedly belongs to the group of eruptions which accompany profuse sweating. The lesions are bright red papules or minute vesicules, according to the amount of fluid in the skin, and they generally develop in crowds closely set together over the chest and abdomen, or any portion of the skin which may have been over- heated. The vesicles remain isolated even when crowded together, unlike the eczematous lesions which have a strong tendency to fvision, and after a few days disappear without leaving any marks of their existence. The eruption, as a whole, may be kept up for some weeks if the hyperidrosis and surface irritation are allowed to continue. Miliaria rubra is not uncommon in children as a resvilt of too warm clothing ; it is known in such instances as strophulus, or "red gum," or lichen infantum. 3. Miliaria Alba. — This is not a special disease. The name refers to the milky-white appearance which the miliary vesicles some- times assume. It is due to the macerating influence of the fluid on the epidermic layers, or to the conversion of the vesicle into a pustule. 4. Miliaria Papulosa or Prickly Heat.—The hyperidrosis underlying prickly heat is not in itself a morbid process, being merely the effect of a hot climate. It is mainly in the Tropics that this affection is found, although it is not unknown even in temperate climes during a hot summer. Europeans are prone to prickly heat, especially during their first year in a tropical country. Stout and well-nourished persons are more liable to it than the lean and spare. Nude natives of the Tropics are probably never affected with prickly heat, but this is true only so long as they remain nude or wear the thinnest of cotton garments. The eruption has been observed to develop under the belt in Sepoys who wear khaki uniform. The eruption consists of crowds of finely-pointed papules, of a bright red colour, which develop at or near the mouths of the sweat-ducts on any part of the body surface which is over- heated and irritated by clothes. The sensa- tions arising from the eruptions are made up of pricking, burning, tingling, and irritation, which is sometimes maddening. According toMILIARIA 414 Dr. Martin, formerly of Calcutta, prickly heat is not always accompanied by an eruption. The symptoms tend to subside when the individual is cool and sits quiet, but as soon as he takes exercise or drinks any stimulating fluid the eruption becomes elevated and the distressing sensations return. Pathology.—The morbid anatomy of Suda- mina, or M. crystallina, has been investigated by Haight, Robinson, and Torbk. There is a general agreement that the vesicles are essen- tially sweat vesicles directly connected with the sudoriferous duct, and developing ivithin the horny layer of the skin. PoUitzer does not distinguish between M. rubra and prickly heat, using the two names synonymously. But a close examination of his histological report on "Prickly Heat" furnishes reliable evidence of the incorrectness of this view. Pollitzer's report is based on the microscopic examination of pieces of skin taken from eight persons, all of whom presented eruptions associated with profuse sweating. But this author states that neither clinically nor histologically could he find any evidence of the existence of the in- flammatory papule. We may conclude from this that the sweat eruptions which form the groundwork of his histological examination were not examples of prickly heat, since it is universally recognised that the small pointed papule is the most characteristic lesion of this affection. Pollitzer's cases were probably ex- amples of miliaria rubra, and his report is valuable as affording some histological grounds for separating M. rubra from prickly heat. The essential changes in M. rubra were found by this observer to consist in cyst-like expan- sions of the sweat-ducts beginning in the horny layer, and situated one below the other through- out the whole thickness of the rete. This cystic formation was found unaccompanied by any signs of inflammation, but the horny layer was oedematous and nucleated. The character of the contents of these cysts varied with their ages, being wholly fluid in those of recent origin, while the older ones were packed with epithelia and round cells and nuclei. The most frequent situation of these cysts was just above the stratum granulosum. Their anatomical con- nection with the sweat-ducts was proved to the satisfaction of the author. The pathology of M. rubra is still further complicated by Torok's investigations. According to this author and Unna, the vesicles of M. rubra have no con- nection with sweat-ducts, but develop in the deep layer of the stratum corneum. Torok found evidence of circumscribed papillary inflammation, and therefore concluded that the vesicles were purely inflammatory and not sweat-cysts. The truth probably lies midway between these two opinions—namely, that while the vesicles of M. rubra may be retentive sweat- cysts, they are in some instances, where external irritation has supervened, of inflammatory origin and unconnected with the sweat-ducts. Etiology. — The cause of the retention of sweat in sudamina is probably a collapse of the horn structure at the orifices of the sweat- pores during the height of the fever. In M. rubra the hindrance to the dispersion of sweat is supposed by Pollitzer to be due to the imbibition of sweat by the horny layer, and the consequent swelling and blocking up of the mouths of the sweat-ducts. This, however, is a doubtful explanation, for, as Unna points out, sweat-cysts do not develop in cases of maximum swelling of the stratum corneum by water and alkalies as met with in washerwomen. The eruption in prickly heat is clearly attribut- able to the irritation of clothes, when the amount of sweat passing through the skin is greater than can be readily dispersed by evaporation. Treatment.—Sudamina calls for no treat- ment. In M. rubra it is necessary to keep the skin cool and to apply some astringent such as calamine or lead lotion. In prickly heat the most rational procedure is to reduce the excessive perspiration by keeping as cool as possible, avoiding active exertion during the hottest period of the day, and in clothing the body in cool raiment. Linen garments should be avoided, and especially when starched. Diet should be light and non-stimulating. Accord- ing to Dr. Martin, the cold bath only aggravates the complaint by increasing the cutaneous circulation. Warm alkaline baths are recom- mended by some, while cool saline drinks are useful on account of their diuretic action. Locally, a cool drying lotion or ointment will usually give relief. Miliciry. — Resembling a millet seed in appearance and size; e.g. a miliary aneurysm {see Alcoholism, Pathology; Brain, Affections OF Blood-Vessels, Cerebral Hcemorrha^e, Etio- logy), or miliary tuberculosis {see Lung, Tubercu- losis, Clinical Varieties; Peritoneum, Tuber- culous Peritonitis, Varieties; Tuberculosis, Lesions of Various Organs and Tissues). MiliUin.—A cutaneous affection in which there are small pearly elevations, seen mostly on the face; the elevations or milia are due to the presence of retained sebum in the sebaceous glands. See Eyelids, Affections of {Milium and Cysts); Tumours of the Skin {Benign, Colloid-Milium). Milk. I. Industrial— The Farm, The Dairy, Feeding, etc. 415 II. Physiological— Types of Milks, Humanising, etc. . 417 III. Dietetic— Fresh, Condensed, Sterilised, Pep- tonised . . . • .418MILK 415 IV. Therapeutic— Kumys . . . . .418 V. Pathological— Tuberculosis, Enteric Fever, Scarla- tina, etc. ..... 420 VI. Adulteration— Normal Limits and Variations, Dilution, Preservation . . 421 VII. Examination— Physical, Chemical, Bacteriological 421 VIII. Control— Elimination of Tuberculosis . See also Cholera, Epidemic (Etiology); Diabetes Mellitus (Treatment, Diet); Diet (Milk and its Products); Diphtheria (Modes of Disseminatioii); Food (Milk and Milk Prodmcts); Heart, Myocardium and Endocardium (Treat- ment, Diet); Immunity (Antitoxin in Milk); Infant Feeding (Human Milk, Artificial Feed- ing) ; Invalid Feeding (Milk and its Products, Peptonised Milk, Milk Puddings, Milk Arrow- root, etc.); Menstruation and its Disorders (Vicarious Menstruation); Nursery Hygiene (Milk Supply); Obesity (Treatment); Physio- logy, Food and Digestion (Food, Milk); Pan- creas, Physiology of (Ferment); Physiology, Excretion of Matter (Milk Secretion) ; Puer- perium. Physiology ('■^ Milk Fever," Lactation) ; PuERPERiUM, Pathology (Affections of Mamma and Conditions interfering with Suckling); Scarlet Fever (Etiology, Exciting Causes) ; Scurvy, Infantile (Treatment, Fresh Milk); Toxicology (Milk); Typhoid Fever (Etiology, Mode of Lnfection). Section I.—Industrial Milk Production.—The quantity and quality of the milk depend on, inter alia, breed and age, feeding and shelter, and are influenced by climate and weather. The British farmers prefer the Shorthorns and Ayrshires as being very hardy, giving much milk, though not rich in fat, and fattening well when done with. The Ayrshires will thrive on the poorest pasture, but well repay care; their pugnacity is, how- ever, against them. Devons give a richer milk and plenty of beef ; and the docile, hornless Red- polls are good milkers, but bad graziers. The best for butter-making are the little black Kerry cattle, very hardy and splendid milkers ; and the Guernseys and Jerseys, alike remarkable for the golden yellow colour of their butter. These two breeds are quite distinct, and their purity is maintained in their native islands by local legislation ; but in England they are often crossed with hardier breeds, for the delicacy of their constitution necessitates their being housed for more than half the year, and renders them peculiarly liable to contract tuberculosis. All cows should be dried for two months before calving; the quantity of the milk is greatest before the eighth week after, but its quality improves subsequently. In cold weather they should be sheltered at night and the more tender breeds by day, though open sheds suffice for the hardier. The Scotch practice of putting up movable shutters in front, leaving about three feet open above, answers well for most, and in such sheds the question of cubic space need not be considered. Some shelter should be provided against rain, for, apart from the suffering involved in exposure to cold and wet, it is economically unwise, since the food that would otherwise go to milk is employed in maintaining the body heat. The warmer they are kept the more milk they yield, but this must not be achieved at the cost of ventilation and cubic space. Cow-sheds—called "shippons" in the northern counties, and "byres" in Scotland—are, as a rule, most insanitary. Cleanliness and ventila- tion are even more necessary than warmth. At least 1000 cubic feet should be allowed to each cow, exclusive of gangways, and free ventilation secured by ample openings in the front wall, closed against snow or extreme cold only; louvred apertures in the opposite walls, well above the heads of the animals, and in the roof, over which there should never be a loft. The floor should be of hard pavior bricks or rough concrete—not of cobbles, which cannot be kept clean — and slanting to a well-laid gutter of glazed half pipes or moulded in concrete, with sufficient fall, leading to a tank, no trap being interposed. It should never discharge into a pond or ditch. The cost of the tank will be nothing compared with the value of the liquid manure produced by the urine and dung carried down with the washings. In tying up the cows their heads should not be close to the wall, for they are apt to bespatter it with their nasal mucus, and one tuberculous cow will thus infect others occupying the same stall after her. To avoid this a space of three feet should intervene between the feeding troughs and wall, which, besides its sanitary advantages, permits of the troughs being replenished without disturbing the cows, whence it is commonly known as a "feeding walk." When the cows are indoors for many hours drinking troughs should be provided, supplied by pipes from a cistern. The litter should be removed daily, the floors being washed down during the change. The straw-yard, as commonly met with, is sanitarily an abomination and economically a blunder. It should be kept as clean and dry as possible, well paved with concrete (not rough stones), and drained into the same tank as the cow houses and sheds. Drinking troughs, sup- plied from a cistern and frequently cleaned, should be mounted three or four feet from the ground, so that the cows shall not foul the water with their urine or dung. The practice of allowing cows to drink from ponds fouled with urine and sewage is detrimental to theirMILK 416 milk, if not to their own health; that they will do so, and especially when ill seem to prefer it, is probably dne to a craving for salt, which might well be provided with their food. No dung heaps or dung pits, or collections of filthy water, should be permitted in proximity to the milking-place or dairy. The process of milking is too often disgusting and disgraceful; the admixture of dung from the flanks and udders of the cows and the hands of the milkei'S being palpable, and, apart from its loathsomeness, inducing early souring of the milk. Cows when in sheds should, in fact, be groomed almost like horses ; and, before milking, their udders and the milkers' hands washed and wiped dry, warm water being provided in winter. The dairy should be spacious, cool, airy and light, sheltered from the mid-day and afternoon sun, and ceiled with an airy roof-loft above it. The floor should be smooth and impervious, of glazed tiles laid in concrete; for spilled milk on an uneven floor, breeding bacteria, tends to cause souring of that stored in the place. The drain should, for the same reason, be open and trapped outside, not within. All milk must, immediately after being drawn, be passed over a Lawrence's refrigerator worked by water drawn directly from a well or main at the lowest possible temperatiire. Milk thus chilled within five or ten minutes may be sent any distance by road or rail, and will remain sweet for twenty- four hours, when it would otherwise be spoiled or even poisonous. In the best German dairies it is not only strained through muslin to remove hairs, insects, etc., but with the pressure obtained by its descent from an overhead tank, it is filtered upwards through a cylinder divided by perforated diaphragms into four compartments —the upper three being filled with sand. Not only every particle of dirt, but 50 per cent to 70 per cent of the bacteria are thus removed, while the loss of fat is inappreciable. The sand must be cleaned daily with boiling water and frequently renewed. Influence of Food.—Milk containing a high percentage of each of the three food-stufFs, and fat being for the most part a product of the metabolism of albumin, the need for a diet rich in albumins is evident. Wolff" gave the best nitrogenous ratio as 1:5, but, excluding amides, we may put the ratio of albumin to the other solids as 1 : 6 to 8, according as a rich or an average milk is desired, e.g. as when butter or milk production is the object in view. This is approximately presented by pasture grass and clover hay, and by oats and maize, while in ordinary meadow hay and other cereals it is 1 : 9. Bean, oat, and wheat straw give respectively 1:12, 20, and 27, and roots about the same, varying with age and soil. When, as in winter, these enter largely into the fodder, they must be supplemented by other foods con- taining higher proportions of albumin, as pease and beans, 1 : 2'5-2-75 ; cotton cake, 1 : 3-5; linseed, 1 : 2'5; and decorticated cotton, 1 : 1-25. Though fat in the food, as Kiihne's experi- ments proved, has no influence on that in the milk, its value in nutrition is great. Calcu- lated on the total solids, roots contain but 2 per cent; hay, straw, pease, and beans, 2 per cent to 3 per cent; grass, 4 per cent; maize, oats, and cotton cake, 5 per cent to 6 per cent; de- corticated cotton, 15 per cent; and linseed cake, 12 per cent to 24 per cent. Turnips give an unpleasant flavour to the milk, as do grains, which, as well as silage, render it unwholesome, especially to infants, and are prohibited by the best dairy companies and condensed milk fac- tories. Hay should be cut as soon as the bloom is out, for the nutritive value rapidly deterio- rates. Lawes and Gilbert found that in succes- sive cuttings from the same meadow under equally favourable conditions, the woody fibre increased between 14th May and 26th June from 22'97 per cent to 38-15 per cent, while the nitrogenous substances fell from 17'5 per cent to 8'46 per cent, and the fat from 3'19 per cent to 2-71 per cent. Spoiling of Milk.—Bacteria mviltiply more rapidly the warmer the milk, but odours are more readily absorbed when it is cold ; for cold air coming in contact with warm milk expands, and rising may even serve to remove the " cowey " odour. The Creamery.—The old method of exposing the milk in shallow pans and skimming off" the cream as it rose is now well-nigh obsolete, for the separation is imperfect and so slow that some degree of souring takes place meanwhile. The well-known fact that the cream rises most rapidly when the temperature of the milk is falling, owing, as Professor Arnold explained, to the greater conductivity of the watery portion increasing the difference between its density and that of the fat, is taken advantage of in the " Jersey" creamer, a shallow tank of enamelled metal with hollow sides and bottom. The jacketing is filled with hot water, which when the milk has become warm is exchanged for cold ; the cream then rising rapidly, the subjacent milk is run off through a tap in the bottom, and the cream removed in like manner, or by tipping up the tank. But " separators " or centrifugalisers worked by steam or gas engines, and performing 3000 to 6000 revolutions per minute, have almost entirely superseded all other methods for effi- ciency and rapidity, from the facility which cream of the desired thickness can be secured, and the sweetness of the separated milk, since the cream can be obtained from perfectly fresh milk. The composition of cream varies greatly, the fat being from 20 per cent to 30 per cent, with extremes of 10 per cent and nearly 70 per cent, but the other solids are present in the same proportions as in milk. Its "viscosity"MILK 417 depends rather on the size of the fat globules than on the actual percentage of fat, though it is artificially thickened by a solution of cane- sugar in lime-water, known in the trade as " viscogen." "Devonshire" or clotted cream, raised spontaneously from milk kept for many hours at a temperature of 120° to 160° F., contains 60 per cent to 70 per cent of fat, and more than the normal amount of casein and coagulated albumins. All " spontaneous " changes occurring in milk are the work of bacteria, some converting the sugar into lactic acid, others coagulating the casein with, or, as in the preparation of the German sauermilch, almost withovit souring, and others again setting up putrefaction, or even developing poisons, as tyrotoxin, without other appreciable alteration. " Ropy " milk is due to the action of certain bacteria on the casein; and abnormal colours, as blue milk, green, red, and an unnatural yellowness, to the growth of bacteria introduced from without or present in purulent secretions in the udders themselves. Section II.—Physiological The milks of all mammalia consist of water holding in actual or virtual solution salts, sugar, casein, and other albumins, with minute glob- ules of fat uniformly suspended, though tend- ing to rise in consequence of their lower specific gravity. The proportions, absolute and relative, of the several constituents vary, those of the fat especially, but within narrow limits, so that the composition of the milk is fairly constant for the species, the race, and the individual. Casein is an albumin, but possesses characters distinguishing it from the others, as its coagula- tion when acted on by the gastric secretion, but not by heat, and the casein of one animal differs from that of another. Ignoring those of the carnivora, rodents, etc., with which we are not concerned, milks fall under two types : (1) the ruminant; (2) the human, the asinine, and the equine. Save as the source of the original kumys, mare's milk has no dietetic interest, being too laxative for ordinary use. The essential difference between the milks of the first and second types is not so much in the percentages of the sugar and fat, as in the character of the casein, and the actual and relative proportions of the caseins to the other albumins. Though the importance of fat in nutrition cannot be too strongly insisted on, that of the digestibility of the albuminoids is still greater in the first three or four months of life. And Klemm, von Ranke, and Parrot have proved conclusively the superiority of asses' milk over any preparation of that of the cow in rearing premature and feeble infants notwithstanding its deficiency in fat. The casein of cow's milk forms in the stomach a dense and hard curd, whereas the coagula of VOL. VI human and of asses' milk are soft and floccu- lent; and human casein, as Wrobelewski finds, does not, like that of the cow, give rise to the indigestible nucleins. The practice of reckoning all albuminoids as casein without distinction is a grave error in dietetics, and accounts for the failure of most attempts at accommodating cow's milk to the requirements of infancy. It is easy enough by diluting cow's milk, thus reducing the percentage of sugar, casein, and fat, and adding sugar of milk, to obtain a milk identical on paper with mother's milk, but the difficulty arising from the indi- gestibility of the casein remains. The only procedures meriting the description of " humanising" are those that aim at com- bining a maximum of the fat and of the albumin, which, explain it as we may, for the most part goes over with it, and a minimum of the casein. The most perfect process is that of Professor Gaertner, which consists in the slow centrifugal- ising of warm diluted milk, to the richer portion of which milk sugar is added, and the whole made up by further dilution to the proper volume.^ Some dairy companies achieve the same result by substituting for the centrifugal- isation a modification of the Jersey method of raising cream, and lastly, it may be imitated, though less perfectly, by adding cream and milk sugar to freely diluted milk. But the small table separators worked by hand are well suited for Gaertnerising at home, and no other process approaches it in the precision and con- stancy of the result. Save as regards the cow, the discrepancies in the published analyses of the milks of different animals are so great as to deprive them of much vahie; but this is not of such importance as it might appear, since though later on a growing infant requires a " rich" milk, in the first three months of life the casein question casts all others into the background. The following may be taken as averages from the best analyses :— ' Good fresh cow's milk, diluted with an equal volume of hot water, is centrifugalised at such a velocity that the richer and poorer portions pass over at the same rate ; milk sugar is then added to the richer half in the pro- portion of 35 grams to the litre, i.e. 310 grains or 5 drachms to the pint (and for infants under one month, one part of barley-water to two or three of the milk). Animal. Water. Casein. Albu- min. Fat. Sugar. Salts. Cow 87-0 3-3 0-4 3-8 4-8 0-7 Goat 86-0 3-5 0-9 4-6 4-3 0-7 Woman 88-0 1-0 0-7 3-3 6-8 0-2 Ass . 90-0 0-9 0-6 1-2 6-8 0-5 Mare— Konig 90-7 1-25 0-75 1-17 5-7 0-37 Vieth . 90-0 1-9 1-1 6 7 0-3 Fleischmann . 91-0 2-0 1-0 5-6 0-4 Seeland: taken \ 91-42 2-93 1-82 3-6 0-22 on the steppes J418 MILK The greatest doubt attaches to the differentia- tion between the casein and the albumin in human milk, and Hauser gives for woman's milk the inverse proportion of casein 0'77 and albumin 1'59. Section III.—Dietetic Milk is commonly described as a "perfect" food, and rightly so if it be meant that it is the only article of food capable alone of sustaining- life at all ages, and, with the sole exception perhajjs of cocoa, which, like it, contains all the three food-stuffs in sufficient proportions, at all ages subsequent to infancy. But they are not present in the relative proportions required by the adult under normal conditions ; the excessive amounts of water and albuminoids inducing too active metabolism ; individuals, as diabetics, have indeed been known to accommo- date themselves to an exclusively milk diet, but it is only when growth and flesh formation, which involve a corresponding activity of meta- bolism, are proceeding rapidly, as in infancy and in repair during convalescence from wasting diseases, that milk is, in the strictest meaning of the word, a perfect food. Several milk preparations have of late years acquired an important dietetic interest, the foremost place among these being taken by the condensed milks. Condensation is effected by evaporation of the water by gentle heat, accelerated by the reduction of atmospheric pressure in so-called " vacuum pans," and is carried so far that the volume of the milk is reduced to about one- fourth. One part, therefore, of an unsweetened condensed milk, with three of water, reproduces the original milk. But the great majority of con- densed milks are " sweetened " by the addition of a large quantity of cane-sugar, so as to preserve them unchanged for an indefinite period after the cans have been opened, though the un- sweetened will keep good for a week if opened by two punctures only in the tin. The com- position of condensed milk varies greatly. Pollens found the extremes among the un- sweetened to be : water, 26-53 per cent; casein and albumin, 15-26 per cent; fat, 13-20 per cent; milk sugar, 12-18 per cent; and salts, 2-3 per cent. Among the sweetened, water, 12-36 per cent; casein, etc., 8-20 per cent; fat, 8-18 per cent; milk sugar, 11-18 per cent; salts, l'5-3'8 per cent, and the added cane-sugar, 24-40 per cent, or 32 per cent as the average. A large number of brands are now made from skimmed or separated milk, and though the law requires the fact to be clearly stated on the labels, and although their use in making puddings be harmless, it is to be feared that their lower price leads to their employment among the poor for infant feeding, and they ought to be marked "Not Fit For Babies." It cannot be denied that the excess of sugar -detracts from their suitability as a food for infants, but many children brought up wholly on condensed milk thrive well, even better than on fresh cow's milk, while the fact of the milk being sterilised and always free from sourness is no small advantage ; and probably the alleged starvation of some infants thus fed is owing to an exaggerated estimate of the condensation leading to the use of quantities far too small. More often they appear to induce excessive fat formation with a tendency to constipation. It is needless to insist on the value of cream, a highly albuminous food, rich in a most digestible fat, for infants and invalids ; but the use of separated milk, which is free from the sourness of the old-fashioned skimmed milk, and is sold in many dairies at one penny for a half-pint glass, as a summer drink for older children and adults, deserves to be encouraged. The popular notion that the skimming deprives it of all its "good- ness " is a complete misapprehension, the casein and sugar being nutritious enough for those who can obtain their fat from other articles of food, and it is certainly more nutritious and cheaper than beer, to which it is on other grounds to be preferred. Sterilised Milk.—The simple boiling of milk, of course, effects its sterilisation, and so far from rendering it less digestible really has the opposite effect. Many an outbreak of enteric fever and case of tuberculosis, to say nothing of other diseases, would have been prevented by this simple precaution if the popvilar prejudice and apathy could be overcome. Domestic and portable sterilisers, as Aymard's, are simply saucepans with water-jackets to avoid burning; but those used in large dairies, of which the best is that of Flaack of Brunswick, are steam ovens with manometer, safety-valve, and other automatic mechanisms, in which several hundred bottles can be exposed to dry or damp vapour under pressure to two atmospheres and at temperatures up to 125° C. = 265° F., with no perceptible change in the taste or appearance of the milk. " Pasteurising," or continued exposure to lower temperatures, as 70° C. or 160° F., has been abandoned as ineffective. Feptonised milk is made by the action of peptic or pancreatic ferments on diluted milk at 37° C.= 98° F. for twenty minutes, when, if not immediately drunk, it should be surrounded by ice to suspend, or boiled to arrest, the process, though for rectal administration, in which the intensely bitter taste produced by prolonged digestion does not matter, it may be continued for an hour with great advantage. Section IV.—Therapeutic The value of milk as a diet in gastric, renal, and hepatic diseases, in glycosuria, in which lactose is the only sugar or carbohydrate that can be taken with impunity, in convalescence from wasting diseases, and in fevers, is too well known to call for detailed treatment. In enteric419 MILK fever, however, the coagula are often imperfectly digested, leading to flatus from decomposition in the bowel, and aggravating the general dis- tress and fever, in which cases peptonisation is to be recommended. Diabetic patients may be maintained on a diet of milk alone and be capable of active exertion. In gastric ulcer milk is better borne than any other food (except Leube's dissolved meat), but in severe cases it is well to peptonise it, or to administer pepsin at the same time. Asses' milk is often pre- ferable to that of the cow. of the sugar is destroyed, a small amount of lactic acid being produced at the same time. Mare's milk, rich in sugar and poor in casein and fat, is the best, but cow's milk can be made available by appropriate manipulation. Koumiss of the highest quality, and, owing to the scien- tific skill and cleanliness practised, of greater constancy of composition and stability, is now thus prepared in Russia, Germany, and in this country by the Aylesbury Dairy Company, whose late chemist, Dr. Vieth, devoted con- siderable attention to the subject. Dr. Stange. Koumiss as prepared on the Steppes. Dr. Vieth. Koumiss prepared in England from Imported ilares. Mare's milk. After 6 hours. After 13 hours. After 30 hours. After 6 days. After 1 day. After 8 days. After 22 days. Water . Alcohol . C02 Sugar Lactic acid Casein . '\ Albumin V Albumose ) Fat Salts 90-2 0-0 0-0 5-1 0-0 2-3 r9 0-5 90-90 1-85 0- 38 1- 88 0- 39 2- 25 1- 90 0-45 90-65 1-95 0- 60 1- 63 0- 56 2- 25 1- 90 0-48 91-36 3-00 0-70 0-00 0- 64 2-00 1- 90 0-45 91-36 3-00 1-10 0-00 0- 64 1- 60 1-90 0-40 91-43 2-67 res 0-77 ( 0-77 1 0-25 t 0-98 0-16 15.;; 9212 2-93 0- 50 1- 08 0-85 0-27 0- 76 1- 12 0-35 92-07 2-98 0- 23 1- 27 0-83 0-24 0- 77 1- 30 0-35 Kivmys or Koumiss.—The use of this prepara- Dr. Vieth gives the results of his analyses of tion is undoubtedly the most important develop- koumiss prepared by himself from cow's milk ment of the so-called " milk cures." Used by for the Aylesbury Dairy Company, as follows :— Full Koumiss. Medium Koumiss. " Diabetic" Koumiss. After 1 After 8 After 22 After 1 After 8 After 22 After 1 After 8 After 22 day. days. days. day. days. days. day. days. days. Water 88-90 90-35 90-57 87-55 88-39 88-62 92-24 92-38 92-55 Alcohol 0-15 0-94 1-04 0-29 0-97 1-05 0-28 0-35 0-57 Sugar 6-03 3-10 2-18 6-80 4-70 3-90 2-78 2-42 1-64 Lactic acid 0-34 0-96 1-40 0-68 1-20 1-67 0-75 0-86 1-22 Casein 2-31 1-96 1-88 1-46 1-40 1-30 2-19 2-13 2-05 Albumin . 0-30 0-23 0-20 0-43 0-25 0-14 0-30 0-25 0-13 Albumose . 0-34 0-53 0-77 0-48 0-76 0-97 0-36 0-48 0 65 Fat . 1-35 1-36 1-38 1-54 1-56 1-58 0-57 0-52 0-57 Ash, sol. . 0-17 0-28 0-23 0-28 0-32 0-33 0-22 0-24 0-26 Ash, insol. 0-41 0-34 0-35 0-49 0-45 0-44 0-37 0-37 0-37 the Bashkirs of the steppes of Orenburg and Ssamara from time immemorial as a restorative food and a mild alcoholic drink after the de- privations and hardships endured during the winter, it attracted the attention of the Russian physicians, to whom we owe most of the litera- ture on the subject, as long ago as 1830, and thirty years later of the German. At first it was the practice to send patients to live in the tents of the nomads, but the dirt and discomforts of such a life being intolerable, several medical men opened well-conducted establishments at Ssamara, and later at Moscow and elsewhere, with far better results. Koumiss is a white, foamy, slightly sweet, acid and alcoholic refresh- ing drink, the alcohol increasing until the whole The fullest account, historical and descriptive, of the manufacture and composition of Russian koitmiss, its physiological action, therapeutic uses, and the earlier literature, is the appendix by Dr. Stange to Bauer's Dietetics, being vol. i. of Ziemssen's General Therapeutics, translated by the writer of this article for Smith and Elder in 1885. Koumiss varies greatly in the percentages of its constituents according to its age, mode of preparation, and the milk from which it is made. The following typical analyses, selected from a large number, show that that prepared from mare's milk is more alcoholic, and that the fermentation as brought about by the Bashkirs is more rapid and complete, the sugar disappear-MILK 420 ing within thirty hours, whereas, when cow's milk is used more than half remains vmchanged at the end of three weeks. Kephir, a similar but less alcoholic prepara- tion, has, according to Kbnig, a mean composi- tion of Water . 91-21 Fat . 1-44 Albumin . 0-36 Alcohol , 075 Sugar . 2-41 Albumose . 0-30 Lactic acid. 1-02 Casein 2-83 Asli . . 0-68 But one sample examined by Hammarsten contained 3'088 of fat. The half-dozen bottles drunk daily in a " koumiss cure " constitute in themselves, as Dr. Stange observes, a scanty diet, but being highly digestible, slightly stimulating, and very refreshing, it assists the appetite for and digestion of other food, as the fat mutton which is a regular part of the course. It encourages the action of the heart, kidneys, and respiratory and digestive organs. It is especially beneficial in impaired nutrition, anfemia, chronic dyspepsia, mucous catarrhs, early phthisis, nervous ex- haustion, and convalescence from fevers and wasting diseases. It is contraindicated in organic disease of the heart and in acute inflammatory and congestive affections of the liver, kidney, uterus, etc., but useful in chronic nephritis, glycosuria, acute rheiimatism, etc. It is rarely given in acute fevers, but Sambrschitsky tried it in small but frequent doses in some apparently hopeless cases of enteric fever with conspicuous and unexpected success. Section V.—Pathological Milk, one of the best culture media for patho- genic bacteria, may, if drunk raw, be the means of spreading disease. It may be infected when secreted by a cow suffering from (a) a disease common to her and man ; (b) proper to her but communicable to man; or [f] (c) a human disease to which she is in some degree susceptible; or healthy milk may be infected by the hands of the milkers or others, or through admixture of specifically polluted water, enteric fever through water, and scarlatina and diphtheria by personal agency. No others have been proved to be thus propa- gated, though the presence of large numbers of intestinal, pyogenic, or simply saprophytic bacteria can scarcely fail to produce ill, albeit non-specific effects. The only communicable disease common to man and cattle is tuberculosis, but it surpasses in importance all others, the human and bovine forms being one and the same, and the alleged differences in the appear- ance of tubercular pleurisy and the grapes or pearl disease easily explaiiied by the peculiarities of the tissues. Tuberculosis in each is closely associated with overcrowding and defective ventilation, being practically unknown among the hardy cattle roaming without shelter throughout the year on prairie, steppe, or moor, but prevailing among dairy cows according to the length of time during which they are shut up in cow-houses, and most so among the tender Jerseys and cows of all breeds in virban dairies. An enormous proportion of milch cows are more or less affected, but there is no evidence of their milk being infective unless the mam- mary glands are involved. With the improved social and sanitary conditions of the masses in towns, the better ventilation of workshops, etc., there has been during the last thirty years a notable reduction in the mortality from every form of tuberculosis, except the mesenteric disease in infants, which has greatly increased, apparently pari passu with the increased em- ployment of cow's milk, to which one must ascribe a wholly preventable sacrifice of no fewer than 10,000 lives per annum in England and Wales, lives that might be saved by the simple expedient of boiling all milk for children. Of bovine diseases foot-and-mouth alone is indisputably communicable to man by the con- sumption of the unboiled milk of affected animals without change of character, the use of such milk being followed after an incubation of four or five days by febrile disturbance, and eczema of the hands, feet, and mouth, and in infants a severe and often fatal pneumonia. Garget, a specific mammitis, produces aphthoxis stomatitis in infants, and may cause eczema in the hands of the milkers. There is no evidence as to the effect of cattle plague, pleuro-pneu- monia, or anthrax in the milk, doubtless because the diseases themselves are so severe and deadly that the affected animals are never milked, but destroyed without delay. Whether human diseases can be imparted to the cow and retransferred to man through the milk is still suh judice, but from the history of the outbreak of a peculiar disease in Panter's dairy at Hendon in the year 1885, it appears that such is the case with scarlatina. Intro- duced by a cow bought in the market it at- tacked nearly every animal in three large sheds, a considerable interval elapsing between the invasions of the second and third. Epidemics of scarlatina beginning among the customers of the Hendon dairy, broke out in Marylebone, and, after an interval corresponding with the invasion of the last shed, in Hampstead, where the milk from that was separately sent. The symptoms in the cows were fever, difficult deglutition, and on erythematous and vesicular eruption, with desquamation and falling of the hair, while in a post-mortem examination of one Dr. Klein found nephritis, and in the urine streptococci resembling those of scarlatina. That the symptoms should differ in some respects from those seen in man is not more than one should expect; for instance, in the cat diphtheria always involves the lungs, whereas in the horse there a»e no lesions whatever, though the pro- duction of antitoxin proves the unchanged natureMILK 421 of the disease. The fact of milk being infected from external sources, and being thus a passive vehicle for the spread of scarlatina and enteric fever, is proved by the evidence of numerous well-established outbreaks. Legal Considerations.—Sec. 4 of the Infectious Diseases Prevention Act, and sec. 71 of the Public Health (Lond.) Act, empower the medical officer of health, when satisfied that " dangerous infectious disease has been caused by milk from a particular dairy, to obtain from a magistrate an order prohibiting the sale of the milk within the district" when there is nothing to hinder its sale elsewhere; and as a matter of fact the condemned, or rather the inculpated milk, is usually sent to London to be sold as " accom- modation milk" to retailers, when it may be the cause of many outbreaks, and scattered cases of disease that cannot be explained by local investigation. Section VI.—Adulteration Whatever may have been is the past, the only adulteration now practised is dilution with water or with separated milk. The former involves a reduction of the solids not fat as well as of the fat, and as they are far the less variable it is, imless very small, more easily detected than the latter, wliich if not carried to the extent of reducing the fat below the per- missible percentage, cannot be proved to the satisfaction of the Court. The so-called standard fixed by the Society of Public Analysts, fat 2"5 per cent, other solids 8*5 per cent, is inexcusably low, representing not a "standard," but an irreducible minimum, and certainly encouraging, indeed practically legalising the watering of all milks of average or superior quality "to the prejudice of the purchaser," who does not obtain an article " of the substance, natiire, or quality demanded." Limits and Variations in Normal Milks.— Richmond found the average of 200,000 sam- ples—water 87-10, fat 3-90, S.N.F. 8-80. The maximum and minimum F. 12'52 and 1-04, S.N.F. 10-6 and 4-9, but many of these may have been watered, since S.N.F. under 8 is strong presumptive evidence of dilution. Among 6462 normal milks from different breeds the fat was above 3 per cent in 6221, above 4 per cent in 4335, and above 5 in 1540. Bell found the fat to average over 5 per cent in Jerseys and Guernseys, and under 3 per cent in Sussex, Devon, Dutch, and shorthorns. The S.N.F. under 9 per cent in these and Kerrys, but the last-named had over 4 per cent of fat. From November to March all solids are highest, from May to August lowest; from February to April the fat falls rapidly, and in September and October the total solids are rising. The morning milk is richer than the evening, and Monday's milk is poorer, probably from neglect in feeding on Sunday. In 2293 the S.N.F. were under 8 per cent in 2 only. Boussangault found in six partial withdrawals of the milk of a single cow the fat to rise from 1'70 to 4'02, the other solids remaining practically constant; indeed the very last or "strippings" may yield 10 per cent of fat and be indistinguishable from cream, while the first or "foremilk" may have less than 1 per cent. Preservatives.—It is much to be desired that the retailing of milk were wholly in the hands of substantial firms or companies, to the ex- tinction of the petty dealer; for the former, whole daily send-out may be reckoned by thousands of gallons, can always keep their supplies considerably above the demand, putting the surpkis nightly through the separator for turning it into the more lucrative form of butter, whereas to the keeper of a small shop a few gallons left on hand would mean the loss of the day's profits. It is therefore treated with a preservative which will keep it apparently un- changed until the next day, when it is mixed with the morning's milk, or sold over the counter to the poor. Boric acid or formalin are most used. But such preservation is imperfect and transient. Milk cannot be sterilised by chemicals in the small quantities that can be used, and it is doubtful whether such milk is much less unwholesome than it would have been if sour. Section VII.—Examination Much ingenuity has been expended to little purpose on devices for the ready determination of the quality of milk. The " cremometer," a graduated cylinder showing the percentage of cream rising spon- taneously in a given number of hours, though exhibited in most dairies, is scientifically worth- less, since the rate of rising depends on many conditions, and even when complete is in no constant ratio to the amount of fat. The " lactoscope," on the principle of the photo- meter, aims at determining the fat in suspension by the thickness of the film required to produce the same degree of opacity as one of normal milk 2 mm. thick. It is fairly accurate, but is now seldom employed here. "Lactometers," or araiometers, purport to show the specific gravity, or rather the specific volume, which is the resultant of the opposing factors of the fat which tends to lower it below that of water, and of the other solids which raise it higher; the latter being always in excess, dilution with water lowers the specific gravity about 3° for each 10 per cent added at the temperature of 60° F.; but the original specific gravity of the given sample must be known; and since ab- straction of the fat raises it, poor milk having a higher, and skimmed milk the highest, specific gravity, it would be easy so to adjust the skimming and the watering that the specific gravity of the doubly impoverished milk should422 MILK be the same as it had when pure. Quevenne and others have endeavoured to improve the lactometer by the addition of lateral scales in- tended to indicate the degree of dilution of normal and of skimmed milk, but they are quite untrustworthy for practical purposes. Useless as is the information afforded by the lactometer alone, the specific gravity should always be noted, since, taken in conjunction with the estimation of the total solids and fat, the re- action, etc., it may render valuable assistance in determining the nature of the impoverish- ment or the causes of the anomalous composition. The specific gravity of normal milk of individual cows ranges between 1'028 and 1'0397 ; that of the mixed milk of a herd, 1"030 and 1"035, or, as it is often expressed, from 30° to 35°, the average being 1'032. That of skimmed milk is 1-034 to 1 038; and of the fat, 0-93. Fleisch- mann, Hehner, Richmond, and others, have devised formulse for determining the fat from the total solids and specific gravity. Taking T to represent the total solids, F the fat, D the specific gravity, and G the lactometer degrees (i.e. the excess of the specific gravity over 1000), the formulae assume with the aid of empirical constants various degrees of complexity; but Richmond has simplified them down to (t 6F T = — -I- —, and to save calculation he has 4 5 constructed a slide-rule, known as the milk scale. (See for a mathematical discussion of the whole subject Richmond's Dairy Chemistry.) Estimation of Total Solids. — Evaporate a small quantity of milk in a platinum dish over a water bath. When 5 grams were taken, three hours (Wanklyn) were found insufficient, and longer periods (fS'oc. Pub. Anal.) involve browning and decomposition. Vieth and Richmond substituting 1 gram spread over a large surface obtain by evaporation a perfectly white residue with higher and yet constant results. Richmond has designed a water oven that seems perfect. Estimation of Fat.—The methods employed are gravimetric, volumetric, and indirect. The last, already mentioned, were originally sug- gested by Fleischmann on account of the time and skill demanded by the gravimetric; but some of the volumetric are so rapid and accurate as to render the indirect methods superfluous, and the gravimetric necessary only when ex- treme exactness is required. Many of these, some of which had enjoyed official sanction, have been proved untrustworthy and been con- demned by all analysts (except those of Somer- set House). Adams' is undoubtedly the best of the gravimetric methods, and the Werner- Schmid of the volumetric; but Gerber's, which requires less technical skill, is sufficiently accurate for all routine examinations, and takes less time than even Schmid's. Adams' process has been exhaustively studied by chemists in England and in Germany, and Schleicher and Schiill have prepared a "fat-free" paper which, lanlike the blotting-paper originally used by Adams, yields only inappreciable amounts of extracts soluble in ether. Vieth fully con- firmed Adams' observation that in filtering milk the paper retains the whole of the fat, the other solids passing through in the filtrate, or if the milk be wholly absorbed by the paper the fat remains on the surface. For the details of the process, the weighing, etc., recourse must be had to technical works; suffice it here to say that samples (5 grams) of the milk are run from a pipette into strips of fat-free or exhausted papers large enough to absorb the whole, which are dried and weighed with strict precautions, rolled and transferred to a Soxhlet's apparatus, where the fat is extracted by ether. The results are extraordinarily accurate, but the process occupies an entire working day; and Schmid's method, with Stoke's improved pipette, gives in skilled hands identical results in less than half an hour:—10 (or 5) c.c. of the milk with the same of hydrochloric acid are mixed and boiled in the special tube, then cooled to 16° C. under the tap, 30 (or 15) c.c. of ether added, and the tubes, after shaking, set aside for the etherial solution of the fat to rise, when a third or other aliquot part is carefully pipetted off without disturbing the floccvdent layer of albumin between it and the watery portion, evaporated at 100° C, and the fat determined by weighing with the usual precautions. The special feature and merit of Schmid's process is the conversion of the casein into an acid albumin, and the consequent absence of any coagulation or drying which in other methods impedes the extraction of the fat. In the Leffmann-Beam and the Gerber methods the milk is mixed with prescribed quantities of amylic alcohol (and hydrochloric acid) and sulphuric acid in specially graduated tubes or flasks, which are rotated in a centrifugaliser worked by hand for a few minutes, when the fat, separating as a clear semi-fluid colunm, is read off on the scale, the marks on which represent parts and tenths of parts per cent in the 15 c.c. used, fractions of tenths being guessed by the eye. This method is not sufficiently accurate to be, like Adams' and Schmid's, relied on in prosecutions; but the results, approximating theirs within 0*1 per cent, are quite good enough for routine and preliminary examinations. The estimation of the sugar, casein, albumin, and salts is never required in dairy or legal practice, unless perhaps in corroboration of opinions formed as to anomalous findings. Bacteriological Examination. — Milk in the udder of a healthy animal is sterile, and when drawn with great care may have fewer than 100 bacteria in the c.c, but as sold the numbers range from 30,000 to 30,000,000, the average in423 MILK the London shops being 3,000,000 to 4,000,000. For the purpose of enumeration it must be diluted 1 : 0-1, 0-01, and 0-001 c.c. to 10 c.c. of water, so as to obtain a numerable dilution. For the quantitative examination a sample of the milk is centrifugalised in a stoppered tube, the cream and the sediment collected separately, and the " skimmed milk " thrown away. The sediment and the cream are spread on clean cover slips, dried, flamed, and immersed for at least five minutes in alcohol, in ether to remove the fat, and in alcohol again, and after washing in water stained by the Ziehl-Neelson method for the detection of tubercle bacilli. Milk always contains some leucocytes, but when twenty or thirty are visible in the field of a ^ objective it is suspicious, and the sediment of some samples actually consists of pus, even when tubercle bacilli may not be seen. In such and in other doubtful cases inoculations should be made on guinea-pigs. The Klebs-Lofiler bacillus may be found by taking advantage of its rapid growth on inspissated blood serum. That of enteric fever is so soon crowded out by others that it can rarely be demonstrated, but a large number of B. coli, especially in milk that has been fraudulently watered, is suspicious. B. coli is evidence of the presence of foecal matter, the cow's; or of that of man derived from polluted water. The bacteria of diphtheria, scarlatina, and enteric fever are also of extrinsic origin; but besides the B. tuberculosis numerous pus organisms and streptococci of mammitis and other diseases of the vidders are intrinsic, and may be pathogenic at any rate to infants, as are those of foot and mouth disease.^ Chemical Tests for Preservatives.—Boric and salicylic acids are detected by the usual labora- tory tests, those for the latter being really tests for phenol, but that as such is an impossible adulteration. For the qualitative determination of boric and salicylic acids reference should be made to Richmond's work. Formaldehyd is detected by the red colour following the addition of 1-2 c.c. of a O'l per cent watery solution of phloroglucin, with a few drops of liq. pot. or sod. to 8-10 c.c. of milk. It is not a quantitative test, since the deepest colouration is produced when the formaldehyd is present in the proportion of 0'00004, and a rose tint can be recognised in 0-00004 dilutions, but little, if any, in 10-30 per cent solutions. Since, however, the quantity of formaldehyd in milk is always very small, this anomaly does not detract from the value of the test. (For other tests, see Richmond, op. cit.) Section VIII.—Control It is much to be desired that the county councils should, as in Italy, appoint a veterinary 1 The best instructions for the bacteriological examina- tion of milk will be found in a paper by Mr. "Walter Pakes in Public Health for March 1900. surgeon, co-ordinate with the county medical officer of health, and exercise through these officers, assisted by those of the local authorities, the general control of dairy farms. A few of the great dairy companies do this to a certain extent with the farms with which they deal, but these form a small minority, and the rest are under no supervision whatever, except in some of the southern counties of Scotland. Such in- spection shoxild extend to the health of the cows, the conditions of the sheds, cow-houses, and yards, the water-supply, and the cleanliness and arrangements of the dairies as treated in sections I. and V. So vast an undertaking as the total elimina- tion of tuberculosis, Utopian as it might appear, would be practicable by means of legislative and organised action, as it has been successfully carried out by individual owners of herds in Denmark and in this country following the procedure laid down by Professor Bang of Copenhagen. Tuberculin, an extract from sterilised cultures of the bacillus, though not curative or preventive of the disease, provides an almost unerring means of diagnosing its presence long before any physical signs appear. Injected into a healthy animal it produces no eff'ect, but in all but the very earliest stages of tuberculosis it gives rise to a febrile disturbance extending over several days and with a character- istic curve, provided the operation be performed and the eff'ects observed by experts. Bang directs that the entire herd be tested simul- taneously, those that react removed to other sheds at a distance, and no communication per- mitted between the attendants on the healthy and the affected animals. The latter should be at once fattened for the butcher unless already in calf, when they may be allowed to calve once, since the instances of congenital transmission are infinitely rare; but the calves must, if not killed, be transferred immediately to the healthy herd. The stalls of the healthy cattle should have been thoroughly disinfected, and any newly purchased cows kept in quarantine while being tested. Since some incipient cases may have failed to react, the testing should be repeated at intervals of six months, until, on the second, or at the latest the third testing, none are found to respond. Under any circum- stances should tubercle bacilli be found in the mixed milk of a herd, the affected animal or animals should be traced by sampling each cow's milk in succession, after having restricted the field by the examination of that of groups. Milk Fever.—The slight rise of tempera- ture which occurs about the third day of the puerperium, and which is associated with the establishment of lactation; it is not to be confounded with the fever of septic infection which also shows itself about this time, but it is possible that in many cases the name milkMILK FEVER 424 fever is given to a mild form of septic poisoning. Bee PuBRPBRiUM, Physiology (Temperature). Milk Laboratories.—Milk labora- tories, which now exist in many of the large towns of the United States and Great Britain, are buildings in which, with the greatest pre- cautions as to cleanliness, cow's milk is modified for infant use. Physicians send into these laboratories their prescriptions for milk stating the percentage quantities of proteids, sugar, fat, etc., and the milk is made up according to these data and supplied to the patient; this percentage feeding has been found very bene- ficial in many of the disorders of infancy, such as diarrhoea. See Rotch, Pediatrics, 5th ed., pp. 208-228, 1906. Milk Leg^. See Veins, Diseases of {Phlebitis, PJileijmasia alba dolens). Millar's Asthma. See Thymus Gland {Enlargement). Millar's Disease.—Laryngismus stridulus. Millet.—A form of vegetable food not much used in this country ; it is a nutritious cereal. The millet seed has a characteristic appearance, and milium, miliaria, and miliary are medical terms derived from it {q.v.). Millon'S Reagent. — This reagent (mixed nitrates), used in the detection of true proteids, is made by dissolving 10 grams of mercury in 20 grams of nitric acid, diluting the solution with an equal volume of water, and allowing it to stand for twenty-four hours, when it is decanted ; with proteids and benzene and naphthalene derivatives it gives a white pre- cipitate, turning red on boiling. Pure glutin or gelatine does not give Millon's reaction. Mimetic Affections.—imitative maladies (Gr. /xt/xos, an imitator or actor); thus paralysis or spasm of the facial muscles may occur as a mimetic disease, and mimetic joint aff'ections are well known. See Joints, Diseases OF {Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Affections). Mimicry.—Imitation; the cause of the mimetic aff'ections referred to above; it may also enter into the causation of chorea. See Chorea {Etiology, Imitation); Malingering (Nervous Mimicry, Neuro-Mimesis); Mental Deficiency {Mongoloid Cases). Mind Blindness.—A form of aphasia. The patient can see things such as words, but they convey no intellectual impression to his mind; they are like the words of an unknown tongue to him. See Aphasia (Word-Blindness). Mind Cure.—The alleged cure of a dis- ease by mental influence alone; the healer's mind is supposed to act upon the patient's in such a way as to lead to cure. Mind Deafness. See Aphasia {Word- Deafness). Mind, Education of the. Necessity of Educating the Body as well as the Mind 424 Psychological and Physiological Views of Mind 424 Composition of the Nervous System . . 425 Blood ample in Quantity and good in Quality required . . . . .425 Early Education necessary . . .425 Development of Sensory and Motor Tracts, and of Association Fibres requi7-ed . 425 Development of Knowledge from the Con- crete to the Abstract .... 426 Education of the Special Senses . . 426 Necessity of recalling Images of Objects— Memory . . . . . .4:27 Attention ...... 427 Fatigue 427 Motor Training . . . . .427 Necessity of Development of Association Fibres 428 Moral Training . . . . .428 Education and Treatment of Children who are—(1) Weak-minded; (2) Nervous; (3) Hysterical; (4) Epileptic; (5) Mor- ally imbecile ; (6) Morally perverted; (7) Scrofulous and Consumptive . . 428 Mental Hygiene ..... 430 See also Blind, Training and Education of ; Deafmutism ; Epilepsy and Epileptic Colonies ; Memory in Health and Disease ; Mental Deficiency ; etc. Plato says truly that " the purpose of educa- tion is to give to the body and the soul all the beauty and all the perfection of which they are capable." If for "soul" we read "mind" we see that the old philosopher was aware that true education consists in training the body as well as the mind, so that we may have mens sana in cotpore sa7to. The body and brain are dependent on one another, and, as we shall shortly show, it is necessary that both be well nourished ; if they are not, mental activity will be lessened. According to the psychologist, states of action of mind can be analysed into three elements— viz., ideation, feeling, and volition, or knowing, feeling, and willing. Herbert Spencer goes further, and says that the various degrees of intelligence are known as instinct, memory, reason, emotion, and will. According to the physiologist, states of action of mind consist in some change—molecular, chemical, or vital— in the nerve cells of the brain. To those of us who are physicians the physiological definition appeals, and in what we have to say regarding the education of the mind, physiology rather than psychology will be appealed to.425 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE The nervous system, as Maudsley says, con- sists of primary or ideational centres, secondary or sensory centres, tertiary or reflex action centres, and, fourthly, organic nervous centres which belong to the sympathetic nervous sys- tem. The primary are constituted by the grey matter of the convohitions of the hemispheres; the secondary by the collections of grey matter which are situated between the decussation of the pyramids and the floors of the lateral ventricles; the tertiary by the grey matter of the spinal cord ; while the organic nervous centres consist of a set of ganglionic bodies which are distributed over the viscera, and are connected together and with the spinal centres by interganglionic cords. Each of these centres is subordinate to those above them and superordinate to those below. It is this nervous system which we have to educate. In order to do this efficiently it is necessary that the nerve centres should be well ;supplied with blood, and that the quality of it should be good. If the quantity of blood sup- plied is deficient, fainting or loss of cerebral action ensues, and consequently there is a de- creased nervous discharge. Chronic feebleness of the heart's action will produce the same result. Again, if the proper quantity of blood is sufficient, local anaemia, as the result of an embolism, produces paralysis. On the other hand, if the nerve centres have an unusual amount of arterial blood, rapid response to dis- turbance ensues, and extraordinary amounts of force shown in nervous changes or muscular .action, or both, are the result. As regards the peripheral nervous system the same law holds good. If there is a reduced quantity of blood, however produced, any part which is ■exposed to cold will have decreased sensibility, and the muscles will respond sluggishly to the motor impulses. This is frequently seen in ■cases of idiocy and imbecility. If, again, there is slowing or stoppage of the local current of blood, the nerves cannot perform their function .and become incapacitated, as is seen in the blindness which occurs when the central artery of the retina is blocked. Excess of blood, on the other hand, causes unusual excitability of the peripheral nerves, so that a slight touch produces a start of the whole body. It is equally necessary that the quality of the blood supplied should be good. We know that if a person imbibes alcohol, unusual amounts of nerve force take place; and we also know that the blood must contain a sufficient quantity of •oxygen in order that the normal degree of nervous activity may be produced. It is requi- site that certain substances, such as carbonic acid and urea, should be present. If the amount of carbonic acid e.Khaled is deficient, lethargy ensues, and peripheral excitations do not result in the usual responses. If exhala- tion is arrested completely insensibility is the result, and arrest of all functions of the body is complete. In the same way an accumulation in the blood of urea or nitrogenous products causes a decrease and final stoppage of nervous action. If the kidneys fail in their function, or if the waste nitrogenous material does not escape from the body, but is reabsorbed, coma, and finally death, ensues. It is necessary, therefore, that the blood which supplies the nervous centres should be sufficient in quantity and excellent in quality if they are to maintain the proper amount of nervous action. So much stress is laid on the influence of the neuron just now, that there is a danger that the circulation of the blood in the brain by which the neuron is nourished may be overlooked. Professor Donaldson says : " No amount of cultivation will give good results where the nerve cells are few and ill-nourished, but careful culture can do much where there are those with strong- inherent impulses towards development." In order that the nervous system may be properly educated it is important that this should commence when the child is young. Education should begin at the age of five, and be continued until the child is eighteen years old. As one writer puts it: "From birth to seventeen years of age is the period of growth and development; from seventeen to maturity at twenty-four is the period of development without growth." Hallech says that he has demonstrated to his own satisfaction that young cells are more amenable to training than any other matter of which he has knowledge. There is no doubt that the nerve cells can be developed in three ways: (1) the sensory parts of the brain undergo change by afferent currents from the different senses ; (2) the motor tracts are altered by being engaged in the initiation of new muscular acts, and the repetition of those which have been already learnt; (3) the association functions of the brain are enlarged by being brought into use. That the first proposition is true is shown by the fact that in persons who have had deficient special senses there is an imperfect development of the areas which have had to do with those senses. The case of Laura Bridgman is an illustration of this point. When three years old she had scarlet fever, and as a result became deaf, and a few years afterwards blind. Professor Donaldson examined her brain, and says: " It is interesting to notice that those parts of the cortex, which, according to the current view, were to be associated with the defective senses, were also particularly thin. The cause of this thinness was found to be due, at least in part, to the small size of the nerve cells there present. Not only were the large and medium-sized nerve cells smaller, but the impression made on the observer was that they were also less numerous than in the normal cortex." He goes on to say: " For the cells continually appearing in the developing cortexMIND, EDUCATION OF THE 426 no other source is known than the nuclei or granules found there in its earliest stages. Elements intermediate between these granules and the fully developed cells are always found, even in mature brains, and therefore it is inferred that the latter are derived from the former. The appearances there lead also to the con- clusions that many elements stop short of complete development, and that the number which might develop in any given case is far beyond the number that actually does so, and that the characteristic appearance of the cortex in the various localities depends on the expansion of dissimilar layers of the primitive granules." It is necessary to remember that the senses act on the brain in such a manner as to cause a change in it, and as a result the nerve cells become more developed. As regards the motor area, modifications of it change the correlated musciilar reaction in health in a normal way and in disease in an abnormal manner. With respect to the fibres of association, their develop- ment is accompanied by a marked change in the cortex, and it is known as the child grows older the number of these fibres becomes increased. In fact, without these fibres we could have no memory, association of ideas, and motor action. Dr. Flatau says (2): "The main function of the association fibres is probably psychical. They appear the most fitted to form the anatomical basis for the association processes of perception, thought, and will." From what has been observed, it appears necessary that the sensory tract of the brain must be well developed, because all thought and imagination, if rigidly analysed, will be found to rest on this sensorial area. There is no doubt that the education of the young should begin by the education of his special senses, and it seems probable that as the sensory cells develop by exercise, the association fibres leading from them to other parts of the brain will increase in number. All authorities who have studied the subject lay stress on the importance of training the senses. Comenius says: "First the senses should be exercised, then the memory, then the understanding, and lastly the judg- ment." Canon Daniel says : " Children are not sufficiently required to use their senses. They are allowed to observe by deputy. They look at nature through the spectacles of books, and through the eyes of the teacher, but do not observe for themselves." Dr. Seguin, to whom belongs the honoi;r of having created the true method of teaching idiots and imbeciles, in his books strongly impresses upon his readers that the education of the senses must precede the education of the mind, and defines his method as "the adaptation of the principles of physi- ology, through physiological means and instru- ments, to the development of the dynamic, perceptive, reflective, and spontaneous functions of youth." According to modern views the education of the senses does educate the mind, for it is impossible to educate any special sense without altering or developing the nerve cells of the brain which control that sense. The senses are educated by means of different concrete objects, for all development of know- ledge is from the concrete to the abstract. The system of kindergarten teaching depends upon developing knowledge from the child's playful activity, and making use of the common objects by which he is surrounded, objects and actions being arranged in a connected manner. The kindergarten gifts serve not only to satisfy the child's desire for play, but also as influences for knowledge as to form, colour, material, number, and names. By this system the faculty of observation is exercised to distinguish likeness from difference; and the powers of thought are exercised in arranging sticks or strips of paper, and in imitating the form of models, and making variations of these, opportunities being- made use of by the teacher to impart informa- tion as to the qualities and properties of objects in daily use. In this way is originated the foundations of the knowledge of arithmetic and mathematics, reading, grammar, literature, and the physical sciences. Later on the child imi- tates outlines and forms and written language, and so gradually learns drawing, painting, and history. The local surroundings give rise to experiences by means of which geography, natural history, and botany may be taught. Our mental ideas begin by being object-ideas,, and pass by stages into subject-ideas. Froebel's maxim was "Learn by doing." The child should handle the objects for himself, and describe what he sees; and when nothing further can be discovered, the teacher should make suggestions and give information, the child afterwards proving the truth of the sug- gestions and information which have been im- parted to him. Dr. Karl Lange says that anyone who has seen children properly taught "knows how far their energetic learning is from a simple, passive reception, and that not the teacher, but they themselves have the most to perform." The word education of itself shows that the child is not simply a vessel which has to be filled, but an organism which has to be supplied with digestible and easily assimilable food. In order to train the senses objects must be made use of to educate the sense of smell, taste, touch, hearing, and sight. To train the olfactory sense, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, caraway, as- safoetida, flowers and perfumes will be found useful, and the gustatory sense can be trained by fruits and food of various kinds. As regards the sense of touch, smooth substances such as silk, and rough substances such as wood, will be found of use, and so will the surfaces of various fruits. With respect to auditory train- ing, life in the country is desirable, as indeedMIND, EDUCATION OF THE 427 it is in cultivating the olfactory and visual senses. The songs of birds, the cawing of crows, the mooing of cows, etc. may be brought into play to develop the auditory tract of the brain. As to the visual sense, the objects that appeal to it are very numerous, for we must remember that most objects appeal to sight, and only a small number comparatively to hearing, taste, or smell. Wild flowers, garden flowers, the colour and shape of birds and fruits, animals, etc. will all help to educate the visual sense. For the training of all these senses, with the exception of that of sight, the child should be blindfolded, and then asked to name the objects that he touches, hears, tastes, or smells. It is not only necessary to educate the special sense centres by presenting to them various objects, but in order to make the modification of them more distinct and permanent, images of these objects must be recalled. Ribot (5) says: "If, with closed eyes, we keep for a length of time an image of very lively colours before the imagination, and then opening the eyes suddenly we fix them upon a white surface, we see thereon for an instant the image con- templated in imagination, but in the comple- mentary colour. This fact, as is observed by Wundt, from whom we borrow it, proves that the nerve action is the same in the two cases— in the sense perception and in the memory." It is by the recalling of images that the memory is trained. Of course when images are recalled there is some change in the brain cells, probably in their molecular arrangement, as when the senses were stimulated, but not so intense. In order then that the brain may obtain permanent, and so a lasting niemory, it will be necessary to recall the images as often as possible. The more often we think of a thing the more firmly is it retained in the memory. As Comenius says, ''^ Bepetitio memorioe pater et mater est." In connection with this fact it must be re- membered that from the tenth to the fourteenth year memory is stronger than at any other period of life. As regards attention, it is quite certain that if this faculty is not developed no improvement in the child's mind can take place. There are two kinds of it, the reflex or involuntary and the voluntary. When the activity is called forth by an external stimulus, such as the slamming of a door or a flash of lightning, it is termed reflex or involuntary; but when the activity is commenced by the mind itself it is called voluntary. In the latter case we are conscious of an effort, and more severe drafts are made upon the brain than in involuntary attention. If we are listening for an approaching footstep, the voluntary attention so centred makes the brain cells in the auditory centres more sensitive to sound, and the same may be said with reference to the other centres. This preparation of the mind to receive a certain form of experience is by psychologists called pre-adjustment of attention. Mental work, however, uses up the energy in nerve cells and causes fatigue. There is no doubt of this, as it has been proved to be true by the experiments of Hodge and others. Long hours in school or in mental work do not favour the development, at any rate, of memory. Ribot says: " Fatigue in every shape is fatal to memory. The impressions received under such conditions are not fixed, and the reproduction of them is very laborious and often impossible. Now, fatigue is regarded as a state wherein, owing to the over-activity of an organ, the nutrition suffers and halts. When the normal conditions are restored memory comes back again." It is therefore necessary that subjects should be frequently changed, for in the same way that change of position in a limb will enable it to do more work, so a change of subject, which involves a different direction being given to the attention, enables additional mental effort to be made. Not only, however, should the subjects be frequently changed, but more play and manual work, and less continuous mental work, would probably give better results. Mr. Edwin Chadwick, who has studied the subject, is of opinion that children from seven to eight years of age should not work more than from 2^ to 3 hours a day; those from eight to ten years old, from 3 to 3^ hours ; from ten to twelve, about 4 hours; from twelve to fifteen, between 5 and 6 hours; and from fifteen to eighteen never more than 8 hours, sufficient time being given for recreation out of these times. In elementary schools he says that children who only attend as half-timers progress quite as much as those who attend full time. As regards motor training, it must be re- membered that the products of sensations affect motor centres, and action is the result. When sensation is excited movement ensues; this fact alone shows that sensory training is the cause of motor development. If motor reactions do not follow sensations primarily or in the form of memory images, we know we have to deal with an imperfectly developed brain. A man seeing a lamp-post, for example, and avoiding it, is an instance of a sensation taking a motor action and influencing the muscles. This may be called a primary motor reaction, but reactions also occur when excited by memory images, as when, for instance, we imagine a very high mountain, movements in the muscles control- ling the eyes will occur. Kulpe says : " Move- ments are everywhere important. It is perhaps not too much to say that a voluntary recollec- tion never takes place without their assistance. When we think of intense cold our body is thrown into tremulous movement, as in shiver- ing ; when we imagine an extent of space our eyes move as they would in surveying it; when we recall a rhythm we mark its rise and fall428 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE with hand or foot." Now, as motion is the only thing which produces anything, it is very important that we should have motor ideas. The dreamers in life who are always going to do something and never accomplish it get by degi'ees motor paralysis. Motor action should be cultivated and be directed to definite ends. As boys and girls grow older ideal suggestions have more force, so that, as Wundt says, " the memory image of a movement is apt at once to arouse the movement itself." A study of motor reactions and their resulting habituations is evidence that education should chiefly consist in doing. To tell a child how to do a thing is of little use; the pupil must himself perform the necessary actions, for that is the only way to get the desired result. It should be re- membered by teachers and parents, as well as medical men, that children can control the muscles of the limbs sometime before those of the fingers, and it is of no use to expect a child to be able to write or draw until he can control the muscles which put the fingers into action. Motor tracts require as careful training as sensory tracts, and they should be developed as early as possible, while they are still in a plastic condition. Drill is especially important in de- veloping the muscles, and manual training in enabling the child to control the fine movements of the fingers. Modifications take place in the motor area of the brain, and correlated muscular reaction ensues. As regards the fibres of association, we have already mentioned that their development is of the utmost importance. Without them per- ception, memory, and thought could not exist. We cannot form a complete image of an orange, for example, until we have tasted it, smelt it, seen it, and touched it. The diff'erent stimuli which pass into the gustatory, visual, etc. centres of the brain must be connected together by means of the association fibres in order to make our knowledge of an object as complete as possible. If our sensations were incapable of being con- nected memory would be impossible, for in developing this faculty it is necessary to pro- ceed by association from one idea to another. So with reference to thought, it is necessary to have all our knowledge associated, so that clear ideas may result. In mind-blindness the patient sees, but cannot interpret the impressions, and the memory of visual images is lost. This eff'ect has been produced in dogs by extirpation of the occipital lobe, and by destruction of the first temporal convolution in the same animals mind- deafness is produced. In this last affection, although the auditory apparatus is unimpaired, the power of recognising words and terms is lost. It is inferred, therefore, than in man mind-blindness and mind-deafness are due to diseases of the occipital and first temporal convolutions. This then proves how necessary it is that all our senses should be in good order. so that the association of ideas shall be clear and well defined. These senses must be well associated too, or we could never recall the various sense aspects of anything. Vulpius, who made a careful study of the tangenital fibres, the fibres of association in the brain, found that they increased considerably between the ages of sixteen months and thirty-three years of age, and during this period the brain becomes increased in size and weight. It is therefore clear that every effort must be made to develop these fibres, for when new brain cells become associated a physical foundation is originated and a new idea is brought into existence. While pursuing the intellectual education of the child it is important that the moral training should not be neglected. To a great extent this is in the hands of the parents; and when the children are still young, truthfulness, honour, and uprightness should be strictly in- culcated. Character is then formed, and if it is not done then it will be difficult afterwards. Many parents leave their children too much in the hands of their nurses and servants, and if the moral character of these is deficient, the child is bound to suffer. He begins by doing wrong, and if not checked the evil develops; and when he goes to school grosser faults appear, and finally some glaring vice takes place and expulsion is the result. The older a boy is, and in like manner with the girl, the less chance he has, if his moral training has been neglected, of learning self-control and self-respect, and the result may be a dishonour- able existence. True happiness depends upon a well-ordered life, and only those whose moral training has been strictly attended to can expect the approbation of their fellow-men. Having treated of the way in which the education of the mind should be conducted, it only remains to show by what means certain classes of children should be instructed and treated. Weak-minded children, especially, require that their senses should be educated, and that all teaching should be on the concrete system, as they are not capable, at least at first, of com- prehending abstract ideas. It is unnecessary to say more of this class of children, as they have already been described under the heading of " Mental Deficiency." In many cases mental dulness is due to the presence of adenoids, and if the child is noticed to sleep with his mouth open, these growths should be looked for, and if found they should be removed. As regards ner-vous children, great care in their education is necessary. Such children sleep badly, grind their teeth, talk in their sleep, have night-terrors, are too tall for their age, and grow thin, though they have no actual disease. In the Report on the Scientific Study of the Mental and Physical Conditions of Child-429 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE hood no less than 3522, or 3'5 per cent of the 100,000 children seen were noted to be of low nutrition. These nervous children often become irritable and passionate, and suiT'er from head- ache. If they are not properly tavight, or if they have to undergo too much study, they easily become fatigued, exhausted, and suffer from irritability. If they stand upright with their hands stretched out on a level with the shoulder, the palms downwards and the fingers stretched out, they exhibit what Dr. Warner calls "the nervous hand"—that is, the wrist is slightly flexed, the knuckles are moderately extended back beyond the straight line, the finger-joints being slightly bent. The thumb is extended backwards and sometimes drawn away from the fingers. In addition to this, the fingers slightly twitch, and there is lordosis. It is essential that the signs of fatigue should be known, because if they are not recognised and attended to, fatigue passes on into exhaus- tion. Fatigue is accompanied by loss of force, both mental and physical, and action is less easily excited through the senses. Irregular movements may occur; the fingers may twitch when the boy holds the pen, and he is not only inclined to fidget, but is irritable and peevish. Loss of force is shown by fulness under the eyes and sometimes corrugation of the eyebrows. If the hands are held out in front of the body, as mentioned above, the thumb will be noticed to be drooped. A fatigued child is slow in his movements and in his mental action. The cure for fatigue is change of occupation. If the above signs are not noticed or attended to, fatigue passes on into exhaustion. In this con- dition the facial muscles are wanting in tone ; there is not only fulness under the eyes, but a lengthening of the face owing to the muscles becoming relaxed. The ordinary stimuli do not bring forth the ordinary expressions, and sighing and yawning commonly occur. The tone of the voice is different from the normal, and speech is slow in character. Instead of co- ordination on the mental and motor functions, there is incoordination and disorderly brain action, and if work is still persisted in chorea or epilepsy will be the result. When exhaustion occurs work must be interrupted, and abund- ance of fresh air, sunlight, and rest from work must be prescribed. Occasionally there is a breakdown at the time of the second dentition. When this happens there must be relief from study, substitution of amusement for books, exercise in the open air, and removal from town to country. Hysterical children, especially girls, must never be overworked. In many cases there is a hereditary predisposition to this affection, and then the power of the will being weakened, the emotions are unduly strengthened, and irrita- bility of the nervous system is the result. In fact, those children who are predisposed to this affection are frequently peevish and irritable (see " Hysteria in Children "); but convulsive attacks do not appear until puberty occurs. In many of these cases the special senses are unnaturally acute, while in others, especially after severe seizures, the senses of smell, taste, and sound are lost, and the field of vision is restricted. In the first class of cases sensorial training should be in abeyance; but in the second class every means of arousing these senses, such as have been previously described, should be exercised. Children of this kind should be trained to be unselfish ; but as this cannot be done at home as the mother is herself often irritable and capricious, at one time harsh, at another indulgent, while the father has no time to look after his children, removal from home is necessary, and the child should be placed under the care of a governess or nurse who is known to be fii'm and jvidicious. Self- control is difficult to teach, and can only be accomplished by the exercise of this faculty by the instructor. The education of the child must not be interrupted, but should be well directed, and amusement should be practised in moderation. If children of this class are over- worked, chorea will be the result. We have had many girls suffering from chorea under our care who at the same time were hysterical. Epileptic children, if of normal intellect and the epileptic attacks are not severe, should be ediicated in ordinary schools; but care must be taken not to overwork them. The signs of an approaching fit are irritability, twitching of the muscles, mental dulness, and a complaint of headache ; if these are noticed the lessons should be reduced. The slight form of epilepsy {petit mal) may cause the child to be inattentive to his lessons, so that when there is a likelihood that he suffers from this complaint punishment must on no account be inflicted. Children suffering from severe epilepsy, and who retain their normal intellect, require to be educated in epileptic homes in the country. Dr. Alexander, who has had considerable experience in their treatment, says " that at home the usual parental discipline that moulds the civilised child is wanting or fitful in its exercise, and the epileptic tends to become a yoimg savage, with all the delights of a savage in cruelty and oppression." The Elementary Education (De- fective and Epileptic Children) Act, 1899, allows school authorities to establish schools, certified by the Education Department, for epileptic children, and to contribute towards the main- tenance of certified schools; but the schools should be in the country. The schools have to provide for the board, lodging, and medical treatment of the children as well as their education. Two homes for epileptic children, one for boys and one for girls, have been built at the Chalfont Colony for epileptics, but the Act above mentioned has an imwise provision.430 MIND, EDUCATION OF THE allowing only fifteen epileptic children to be accommodated in one building, or sixty in four such buildings, and as provision was made for twenty-four in each of the Chalfont Homes, they cannot at present be used for the purpose for which they were built. As regards their education, a " Minute of the Committee of Council on Education," dated February 26, 1900, has been issued, and makes arrange- ments for instruction in reading, writing, and az'ithmetic, singing and recitation, object lessons, drawing, needlework for girls, physical exercises, and manual training. This is a good arrange- ment, as physical as well as mental instruction has been provided, and in the case of the younger children, the usual kindergarten train- ing, " learning by doing" has to be taught. Older boys are to be instructed in various trades and gardening and farm work, and older girls in cookery, laundry work, practical hovisewifery, besides the needlework already mentioned. For boys and girls in the higher classes of life, special provision should be made Csee also "Epilepsy" and "Epileptic Colonies," vol. iii.). Children morally imbecile are a very difficult -class with which to deal. Intellectually they are sharp and clever; but their moral character has never been developed, and they thieve, tell lies, are full of cunning, and sometimes are criminal in their tendencies. They promise to behave better if they are remonstrated with ; but these promises are, like pie-crusts, easily broken, and a slight cause produces another outbreak. Usually these cases possess good manual skill, but unfortunately use it for bad purposes. Dr. Jules Morel, who has given a good deal of attention to these cases, is of opinion that they should be confined in build- ings specially set apart for them, so that they cannot infect other children with their evil tendencies. There is no doubt that this is a good plan, for if they are not kept under control, they will end their lives in prison, which is certainly not the place for them. In these institutions they should be made to work at some trade in order to keep them as much as possible out of mischief. Children suffering from moral perversion, of not such severe character as the class just prescribed, should be sent to a special school. These children are often thieves and liars, but they can be reclaimed if properly treated. They require careful management and individual character training. For such boys I can recom- mend the Clayesmore School, Enfield, Middlesex. In this school the headmaster says: " The highest stress is placed vipon the personal insight and study of each boy, with a view to individual character, formation and strengthening, or, in other words, ' character' and hence ' power' is considered first and knowledge ' second.'" This school contains classical and modern sides, and the instruction is of the public school character, except that in this school every boy is properly taught; whereas in some of the public schools the clever boys are pushed on, while the duller ones have in great measure to shift for themselves. Great attention is paid in the Clayesmore school to manual work, which helps to stimulate the powers of resource and self- reliance. Scrofulous children and children of consumptive parents must on no account be pushed on with their school work. On the contrary, they should be kept back; if this course is not pursued the result will be meningitis. They require plenty of exercise in the open air, sun- light, good nourishing food, a large amount of sleep, and the administration of cod-liver oil and maltine. If healthy action of the brain is encouraged, there will be less liability to nervousness, head- ache, and epilepsy. For this purpose it is necessary that there should be plenty of fresh air in the schoolroom. It has been observed that where schoolrooms are insufficiently venti- lated the pupils soon become fatigued and rest- less. The diet should consist not only of meat and vegetables, but of a good supply of sugar and starch, as these substances are necessary for the formation of heat in the body. As boys and girls are both growing beings, plenty of sleep is essential. Boys who do not have sufficient sleep suffer from lowered vitality; and girls not only suffer from want of vigour, but the establishment of the new functions at puberty is interfered with. Dr. Dukes says the amount of sleep required by boys under ten years of age is eleven hours; for boys under thirteen years of age, ten and a half hours; and for boys above thirteen, eight and a half or nine hours ; and the same remarks apply to girls. The number of hours per day at which children of different ages should work has already been mentioned. Finally, the school should be situated, if possible, on gravel soil; on a clay soil there is likely to be a humid atmosphere, which will be wholly unsuitable for children of rheumatic, consumptive, gouty, and neuralgic constitutions. Mindererus, Spirit of. — Liquor ammonii acetatis or Minderer's spirit (R. M. Minderer of Augsburg, who died in 1621, first recommended its use in febrile conditions). See Ammonium and its Salts {Acetate). Miner's Anaemia..—Anchylostomiasis {q.v.) or uncinariasis. See Parasites [Stron- gylidcB). iVIiner's Dermatitis. See Derma- titis Traumatica et Venenata in Coal-Miners. IVIiner's Elbow. See Elbow-Joint, Region of, Injuries and Diseases of [Bursitis); BuRS^ (Bursitis).MINER'S NYSTAGMUS 431 Miner's Nystag^muS. — Tremor or incoordination of the eyes. 8ee Neuroses, Occupation {^Miner's Nystagmus) ; Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Nystagmus). Miner's Phtliisis. See Lungs, Pneu- MONOKONiosis {Anthracosis). Mineral Waters. See also Balneo- logy ; Hydropathy ; Therapeutics, Health Resorts ; etc.—This name is given to those natural waters which are used either internally or in the form of baths in the treatment of dis- ease, their action being due in some cases to contained salts or gases, in others to their temperature. In dealing with the action of mineral waters three factors have to be taken into account:— (1) The Pharmaco - dynamic.—-In drinking cures by the agency of solutions of salts or gases certain operations are accomplished in the system, and, in addition, gases are absorbed from baths containing such constituents. (2) The Hydro-therapeutic.—The actual water swallowed is of definite therapeutic value ; and the heat of the water bathed in, and the use of douches, frictions, and various other hydropathic processes, has to be taken into account. (3) The Climatic, Dietetic, and Psychical.— Rest, change of air and scene, relief from the usual occupations, and a carefully-regulated diet and regimen have no small influence in pro- ducing favourable results. Mineral baths act in various ways ;— (a) By thermal effects. (b) By pressure and mechanical effects. (c) By salts and gases contained in the waters. The hydro-therapeutic effects and methods are fully described in the articles on " Hydro- pathy " and " Balneology." The general action of baths is also dealt with in the article on "Balneology." It is proposed here to write more especially of the specific actions of the salts and gases con- tained in the various natural waters, to give a classified list of the chief waters, and also some guidance as to selection in disease. It is now generally admitted that the skin will not absorb water or its contained salts; therefore the various saline constituents of the mineral waters can only act when used in baths by influencing the nerves or blood-vessels of the skin. Gases, on the other hand, are readily absorbed and taken up by the skin, and so play an important part in the therapeutic action of mineral baths. Classification is difficult, and to all the various systems advocated there is some objection. On the whole, however, the chemical classification seems the most direct and simple, the difficulty, however, being that some of the waters might be placed in two or three of the classes on account of their several constituents :—• I. Simple thermal waters (often called indifferent thermal waters)— (a) Containing nitrogen. II. Muriated saline waters—■ (a) With carbonic acid gas. (b) Without carbonic acid gas. (c) With bromine and iodine. III. Alkaline waters— (a) Simple alkaline. {h) Muriated alkaline. IV. Sulphated saline waters— (a) Simple sulphated (bitter waters). (6) Alkaline sulphated. V. Chalybeate waters. VI. Sulphur waters— (a) Simple sulphur. {b) Muriated sulphur. VII. Calcareous and earthy waters. I. Simple Thermal Waters. — These waters are characterised by their elevated temperature, ranging from 80° to 150° F., by the small quantity of contained salts, and by their soft- ness and transparency. Action.—Has been thought to be due simply to the effects of warm or hot water taken in- ternally or in the form of baths, mainly as follows :— Drinking.—The stomach washed out; tissue changes augmented and effete matters removed ; secretion of bile, urine, etc., increased. Bathing.—Softening of skin, acceleration of its circulation, calming of nervous and circu- latory systems, absorption of exudations. {a) Nitrogen-charged Thermal Waters.—Many of the simple thermal waters contain nitrogen gas in large quantity, and it has been noted that such waters have a notable influence on gout and rheumatism—Buxton, Wildbad, and Gastein in particular. Armstrong of Buxton has recently published the results of over 10,000 observations. His conclusions are as follows :— (1) That the quantity of urine passed and the excretion of uric acid and urea are largely in- creased both by drinking and by bathing in the nitrogen water. (2) That it is more efficacious when bathed in than when taken internally as regards uric acid excretion. (3) That with drinking, the diuresis is greater than when used as a bath. (4) That any deviation from the normal temperature, either by heating or cooling, inter- feres with its efficacy. (5) That while alteration of temperature would not be likely to diminish the therapeutic properties of the salts, they would, on the other hand, greatly interfere with the contained gas. The result of this investigation may supply an explanation of the marked specific action of some of the so-called simple thermal waters.432 MINERAL WATERS Kionka increased the excretion of uric acid in birds 40 to 50 per cent by giving small doses of powdered egg-shells (calcinm bicarbonate), and Von Noorden has given this remedy with success in chronic gout. As many of the in- different thermal waters contain lime salts, Kionka's results may have some bearing upon their value as a di'inking cure. Certainly the very definite therapeutic effects of such waters as those of Bath, Buxton, Wildbad, Gastein, Schlangenbad, Ragatz, and other similar spas, in gout and rheumatism cannot be put down to the effects of simple hot water alone. Indications.—Gout, rheumatism, rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica, lumbago, diseases of nerv- ous system (early stages), neuritis, neuralgia, neurasthenia, after effects of injuries to and thickening of joints, intestinal troubles, gastric and uterine affections, pelvic exudations. Chief Thermal Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Bath . England . 100 104° to 120° Buxton England . 1000 82° Wildbad Germany . 1410 91° to 104° Schlangenbad Germany . 900 82° to 90° Badenweiler Germany . 1400 70° Gastein Austria 3310 78° to 121° Teplitz Austria . 730 83° to 114° Plombieres . France 1300 77° to 155° Bagneres de Bigorre France 1750 72° to 120° Regatz. Switzerland 1700 98° Loeche-les-Bains . Switzerland 4600 102° to 122° Borraio Italy 4300 90° to 104° II. Miiriated Saline Waters.—Common salt is the main ingredient in these waters. Taken internally it stimulates the secreting power of the stomach and intestines, hastens tissue change, and increases circulation, especially through the portal system. Combination with carbonic acid gas much increases its action both on the stomach and intestines. The saline baths undoubtedly stimulate the peripheral nerve - endings and the capillary vessels, and have a distinct effect upon various internal organs, especially the heart, through the central nervous system, which action is much enhanced by the presence of carbonic acid gas. Muriated Salines with Bromine and Iodine.—■ This combination, present in the waters of Wood- hall in England, and Kreuznach in Germany, is much used in uterine troubles, fibroids, and the various pelvic exudations. Baths and vaginal injections are used, and the water is also drank. Indications.—Chronic rheumatism, gout and arthritis, scroftilous complaints, anaemia, gastric and hepatic congestion, uterine troubles and pelvic exudations, uterine fibroids, obesity. Nauheim has a special reputation in cases of cardiac disease. The forms of heart affection in which this treatment is indicated are cardiac dilatation, mitral disease with failing compensa- tion, the alcoholic and post - influenzal heart,, some cardiac neuroses and other functional affections, and early cases of fatty heart. In conjunction with the baths resisted exer- cises are given. Llangammarch water contains barium in medicinal quantities, and is also useful in cardiac cases. III. All-aliiie Waters—• (a) Simple alkaline. (b) Muriated alkaline. The main constituents of these waters are carbonate of soda and carbonic acid gas in class (a)—with the addition of chloride of sodium in class {h). Oxidation and tissue change are greatly influenced; the secretion of bile and saliva is increased; and the waters act as diuretics, antacids, and general solvents. Chief Simple Alkaline Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Vichy . Mont Dore . Vals . Evian . Tarasp Neuenahr . France France France France Switzerland Germany . 736 3421 1240 3890 760 Hot and Cold 112° Cold Cold 72° to 104° Muriated Alkaline Waters. Ems . Royat. La Bourboule Germany . France France 300 1480 2780 80° to 120° 430° to 95° 140° Chief Muriated Saline Waters Name. Country. Elevation. Feet. Temperature of Spi lngs. Containing Carbonic Acid Gas. Homburg . . Germany . Kissingen . . Germany . Nauheim . Germany . Wiesbaden . . Germany . Baden-Baden . Germany . Without Carbonic Acid Gas. 600 Cold 600 Cold 400 82° to 95° 380 100° to 156° 650 124° to 150° Droitwich England . 200 Cold Nantwich England . 150 Cold Bridge of Allan Scotland . 40 Leamington . England . 200 Cold Ashby de la Zouche England . 400 62° F. Cheltenham . England . 150 Cold Llangammarch Wales 600 Cold Chatelguyon . France 1300 550° to 110° Ischl . Austria . 1500 Ischia . Italy 145° Panticosa Spain 5600 78° to 88° Containing Bromine and Iodine. Woodhall . England . 37 Cold Kreuznach Germany . 340 Cold Bourbonne-les-Bains France 900 119° to 180° Bex . . . Switzerland 1400MINERAL WATERS 433 Indications.—Dyspepsia with gastric acidity, hepatic congestion, sluggish portal circulation, gall-stones, diabetes (hepatic form). Uric acid diathesis—gout, chronic catarrhal affections of digestive and respiratory organs, obesity. The waters of Mont Dore, La Bourboule, and Neuenahr contain arsenic in medicinal quantities. IV. Sidphated Waters— (a) Simple sulphated (bitter waters). {b) Alkaline sulphated. The former contain the sulphates of soda and magnesia, the latter the sulphate and carbonate of soda and chloride of sodium. The bitter waters stimulate the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal ; their action is modified by the addition of the soda carbonate and sod. chloride. Indications.—Constipation with portal con- gestion, some forms of dyspepsia, gastric catarrh, gall-stones, gout, hepatic congestion, diabetes, and obesity. Chief Bitter Waters Name. Country. Pullna . . . Austria \ Hunyadi Janes . . Hungary y Used for Rubinat . . . Spain | bottling only. Friedrichshall . . Germany / Alkaline Sulphated Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Carlsbad Marienbad Tarasp . Franzensbad ^. Austria Austria Switzerland Austria 1214 1912 4500 1900 122° to 170° Cold Cold Cold V. Chalybeate Waters. — Action. — Improve general nutrition, increase oxidation and pro- duction of heat, and encourage formations of red blood corpuscles. The action of the baths is due most probably to the contained carbonic acid gas. Indications. — Anaemia, chlorosis, neuralgia, sterility, general debility. Chief Chalybeate Springs 1 Franzensbad is celebrated for its mud-baths. ^ The Levico water contains arsenic. VOL. VI VI. Sulphated Waters — (a) Simple sulphur. (b) Muriated sulphur. These waters rely for their effects either upon the sulphides of sodium, potassium, and calcium, or upon the presence of sulphuretted hydrogen, the muriated group containing sod. chloride in addition. Action.—Small as are the quantities of con- tained sulphur, there is undoubtedly a distinct action upon the stomach, intestines, and liver, which is enhanced by the addition of the sodium chloride. There is no doubt that the sul- phuretted hydrogen is absorbed by the skin when baths are taken. Indications.—Disorders of liver and stomach, skin diseases, rheumatism, gout, mercurial and lead poisoning, syphilis (in conjunction with mercurial inunction or injection). Aachan makes a speciality of the treatment of syphilis—mercurial unction and injection being excellently given there. VII. Earthy and Calcareous Waters.—Car- bonate and sulphate of lime and carbonate of magnesia are the most important constituents. These waters often contain much carbonic acid gas. Action.—Calc. carbonate has a soothing effect upon the lining of the digestive canal, and is a good antacid; the sulphate is slightly astringent, and the action of carbonic acid has been dealt with previously. The lime has been said to assist the bone-forming process. The researches of Kionka and Von Noorden, previously mentioned, as to the action of calc. bicarbonate on the excretion of uric acid, possibly have some bearing on the action of these waters. Indications.—Digestive troubles with tend- ency to acidity, irritation of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, diarrhoea, rickets, chronic 28 Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Tunbridge Wells . England . 420 Harrogate England . 200 to 600 Shanklin England . Flitwick England . Strathpeffer . Scotland . Trefriw Wales Schwalbach . Gennany 950 Spa Belgium . 1000 Pyrmont Germany St. Moritz . Switzerland 5800 Levico^ Austria . 1600 Chief Sulphur Waters {Simple) Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature o£ Springs. Moffat. Scotland . 400 Strathpeffer. Scotland . 200 Lisdoonvarna Iceland . 430 Askern England . Gilsland England . Baden. Switzerland 1230 118° Bagneres de Luchon France 2000 Aix-le-Bains France 850 112° to 114° Challes France 880 Cold Helouan Egypt . 200 90° to 110° Muriated Harrogate . England . 260 to 600 Cold Llandrindrod Wales 700 Cold Aachan Germany . 530 113° to 133° Acqui . Italy 450 102° to 158° Cauterets France 3200 55° to 145° Uriage France 1350 ColdWATERS 434 MINERAL catarrh of bladder, gravel—kidney and bladder calculi. Chief Calcareous Waters Name. Country. Elevation, Feet. Temperature of Springs. Contrexeville . France . 1150 Cold Vittel France . 1200 Cold Wildungen Germany 980 Cold Lippspringe Germany 450 70° Lucca Italy 390 70° to 125° Hamman R'Irha Algiers . 133° Contrexeville, in particular, has a considerable reputation in bladder troubles and in kidney and bladder calculi. The water is drank in exceedingly large doses, and gravel and calculi are frequently passed during the course. This is generally considered to be due to the mechanical action of the large quantities of fluid taken. The mineral waters of India, America, New Zealand, Japan, Russia, Turkey and Greece are mentioned in the article on "Balneology." Mines.—The hygiene of mines (especially coal-mines and those for shale, ironstone, and fireclay) is regulated by the Coal Mines Regula- tion Act of 1887 for Great Britain and Ireland. No woman is to be employed underground in any mine, and no boy under twelve years of age. Single shafts are prohibited; there must be at least two, and each must have a proper lowering and raising apparatus. Adequate ventilation is required; safety-lamps, without keys, are to be carried by the miners if there is the least risk, and no matches are to be in their possession. No explosives are to be stored in the mine. There must be regular inspection of the mine. Minim. — The sixtieth part of a fluid drachm. See Prescribing ; Metric System ; ETC. M i n i nri£li. —Literally minimal means least, and it is usually employed in medicine in refer- ence to doses, the smallest quantity of a drug which has been found to be effective being called the minimal dose. Minimetric Metiiod.—A method of estimating the amount of carbonic acid present in the air, devised by Angus Smith; it depends upon the determination of the amount of air which must pass through a given quantity of lime-water in order to produce cloudiness, the carbonic acid of the air combining with the lime to form carbonate of lime. Minimus.—The little finger or toe; the fifth or outermost digit. Minium. — Red lead, PbjO^, an oxide intermediate between lead oxide, PbO, and lead peroxide, PbOg; it used to be employed in making plasters. Mint. >S'ee Menthol ; Peppermint; etc. M i rac i d i U m. See Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes). Mirror.—Mirrors are used in medicine for the inspection of internal parts such as the larynx and the eye, nose and ear. See Eye, Clinical Examination of ; Ear, Examination OF ; ETC. Mirror-Maker's Paralysis. See Trades, Dangerous {Mercury); Mercury ; Toxicology {Mercury). Mirror-Writingf. — The term mirror- writing (Ger. Spiegelschrift) has been applied to that form of writing which is executed from right to left, with the letters so arranged that when reflected in a mirror they look like ordinary writing. True mirror-writing is written with the left hand. It has been found that some patients always write in the mirror fashion when asked to write with the left hand; and some cases (as, for instance, that recorded by Bernard) do not appear to be aware of the fact that the writing is peculiar. Bernard's patient wrote letters to her friends in mirror fashion and was surprised she did not receive answers from them. I have seen several cases who wrote in this way and did not appear to think the fact at all uncommon. They simply took it for granted that this was the proper way to write with the left hand. The condition has been looked upon by most clinical observers as an interesting and curious phenomenon, but one having little or no clinical or pathological significance. It had been noticed by various observers to have been exhibited by patients suffering from diseases of the nervous system, as, for instance, in hemiplegia (Poore and Elder), in hysteria (Savage), in locomotor ataxy (Bernard), in idiots and imbeciles (Ireland). From an investigation which I carried out a few years ago I found, however, that mirror- writing in a more or less perfect form was ex- hibited by a certain percentage of people in perfect health. In the table on next page I append the results of my investigation. These figures brought out very remarkable results. The total number tested was 451 and the percentage of mirror- writers was 5'1. There were 337 females and 114 males. The percentage of mirror-writers among the females was 5'63 and amongst the males 3'5. Of the 154 over fifteen years of age 10'39 were found to be mirror-writers, whilst of the 297 under fifteen years of age only 2-35 were mirror-writers. Of the 95 females over fifteen years of age 14"73 were mirror-writers, whilst ofMIRROR-WRITING 435 242 under fifteen years of age only 2*06 wrote in the mirror-fashion. Of 59 males over fifteen years of age 3'39 were mirror-writers, whilst of 55 under fifteen years of age 3'63 wrote in the mirror-fashion. the fact that he had paralysis of the right hand, and as he was unable to use his right hand it may be that he learned to write with his left and became a mirror-writer. How can mirror-writing be accounted for? Results of Tests of Writing with the Left Hand Ordinary Writers. Mirror-Writers. Percentage of Total Number. Female. Male. Total. Female. Male. Total. H g Male. Mirror- Writers. Female ditto. Male ditto. Over 15 years of age Under 15 years of age . 154 297 95 242 59 55 138 290 81 237 57 53 16 7 14 5 2 2 10-39 2 35 14-73 206 3-39 3-63 Total 451 337 114 428 318 110 23 19 4 5-1 5-63 3-5 These figures undoubtedly showed that mirror-writing with the left hand is not such a rare condition as had been supposed. I believe, however, that it is exhibited by even a greater proportion of patients suffering from some forms of cerebral disease than these figures relating to the healthy subject bring out. I have seen it frequently in hemiplegia, and Ireland records some interesting cases in im- beciles and children of weak minds. One was a paralytic imbecile girl between eleven and twelve years of age ; another, an imbecile girl of fourteen ; another, a congenital imbecile of twelve; and another, a boy of thirteen of moderate intelligence. These all wrote with their left hands and in the mirror fashion. Two left-handed idiot boys formed pot-hooks from right to left. Ireland also cites a case of Buchivald, where a patient, a man of forty-five years of age, suffering from hemiplegia and aphasia, learned to write with his left hand in the mirror-fashion. This patient, although shown how his writing was reversed, could not be induced to write in the proper way. Even after many attempts to copy he always reverted to the mirror method of writing. Some of my cases of hemiplegia persistently wrote in the mirror- fashion, even after having the fact of its being reversed pointed out to them, and they did so in a ready and fluent manner. Mills records "that the left-handed show a physiological tendency to mirror-writing." Of a class of 60 boys and girls who tried to write their names with their left hands, 2 boys and 3 girls wrote in mirror-writing, and all of these were found to be left-handed. Out of another set of 134 children 6 were left-handed, and 3 of these were mirror-writers. One of Leonardo du Vinci's manuscripts is an example of mirror- writing, and it has been supposed that this singular style was adopted to preserve the work from superficial readers. But another reason is suggested: a priest who visited Leonardo during the last years of his life has recorded Although statistics on the subject have not been collected, I believe it is much more common in certain cerebral diseases than is supposed. During the past few years I have been in the habit of testing the cases of paralysis under my care, and I have been much struck with the frequency with which I found the tendency to write in the mirror-fashion. Whilst I have found mirror-writing exhibited by patients suffering from hemiplegia due to lesion in the internal capsule, I have not come across a single case of mirror-writing in a patient with hemiplegia due to a lesion in the cortex involving the motor centres for the hand. Indeed, my experience has so far con- firmed the theoretical conclusion I arrived at a few years ago, viz., that where a patient is paralysed on the right side, and shows mirror- writing when he attempts to write with the left hand, one is justified in concluding that the lesion producing the hemiplegia is not in the cortex, but in the pyramidal fibres below the level of the cortex, as in the internal capsule. This may, therefore, be a diagnostic symptom of no small importance. The absence of mirror-writing, however, is of no importance from a diagnostic point of view, although its presence, I believe, is so important. The theory on which this conclusion is based I discussed a few years ago in my work on aphasia; but I may summarise it shortly here. The movements which produce mirror-writing with the left hand I believe to be primarily guided from the left cerebral cortex, and only secondarily from the right cerebral cortex. The motor impulses for mirror-writing start in the cells in the left cerebral cortex, which are usually used for the guiding of the movements of the right hand. These cells are probably connected with corresponding cells in the right cerebral cortex, which cells guide or co-ordinate the movements of the left hand. If we take it that the cells in the right cortex can and do act along with the corresponding cells in the left cortex, then the writing which would be pro-436 MIKROR-WRITING duced by the right cortex would not be like ordinary writing, but like mirror - writing; because, when one carefully studies mirror- writing, it is seen that not all the movements producing the writing are reversed. The move- ments producing lines from above downwards or antero-posteriorly are the same movements, and require the same muscles to perform them on the two sides, whether the writing is the usual writing or mirror-writing; but it is quite different in the lines from right to left. The movements which produce the lines from left to right, when the right hand is used, are similar movements to those which produce the lines from right to left when the left hand is used, and vice versd. The same muscles are called into action in each case, viz., the homo- logous muscles. Abduction or centrifugal motion of the right hand has its corresponding movement in abduction or centrifugal motion of the left hand. The corresponding set of muscles on the two sides is called into action, and we may conclude that the corresponding set of cells in the cortex of the two sides is called into action in the initiating of these movements. We know also that some muscles in the body, such as the vocal cords, are completely bilaterally represented in the cerebral cortex, so that either cortex can innervate both cords. Some muscles, as those of the face, tongue, lips, etc., are partially bilaterally represented in the cerebral cortex so that lesion of the fibres from one cortex produces paresis and not paralysis of one side of the face—the opposite cortex being able to innervate the muscles to some extent. What is to be supposed in connection with mirror- writing is a slight degree of this bilateral representation of the movements of the hands and fingers in the cerebral cortex. There is some evidence to show that in all probability this is the case. It is well known that it is easier to perform movements with both hands when homologous muscles in each hand are brought into action at the same time, than when heterologous muscles are brought into action. One sees this very distinctly in the familiar example of trying to twirl the thumbs in different directions. How much more difficult it is to do so than to twirl them in the same direction. Many more examples might be taken to illustrate this point that the two sides of the brain have greater facility in acting together than acting against each other. This fact, I believe, explains mirror-writing. The left hand of most of us has to be educated to write just as the right hand: it is awkward at holding the pen, at drawing lines, etc., but by degrees it is educated to copy the outlines of letters and words. Given, however, a person with a well- educated left cortex, an expert writer, probably also with a brain having the two hemispheres specially well associated through the corpus callosum, having also the speech centres more active and initiating in the left hemisphere than in the right, and the tendency will be for the left cortical cells, which are so expert, to guide or influence the corresponding right cortical cells, which are so awkward at the guiding of movements for writing correctly. Such guiding as I have shown will necessarily result in the production of mirror-writing, and this tendency will be even greater where the cells in the left cerebral cortex have been cut off from the cells in the anterior cornu of the spinal cord, such as occurs in internal capsular lesions involving the pyramidal fibres. Hence the relative frequency of mirror-writing which, I believe, is shown by hemiplegic patients. There is one other argument in favour of the movements which produce mirror-writing being guided from the same centres as those pro- ducing ordinary right-hand writing. As I have elsewhere shown, and as I have frequently observed, the mirror-writing when seen in the mirror exactly resembles the same person's ordinary writing. There is no mistaking it; it is the same handwriting, showing that the two are produced from movements guided in the same way. I can hardly believe that the right visual centres are the guiding centres, as some have supposed, because the natural tendency of the visual centres would be to trace the letters in the usual form. Indeed, in all probability the less the visual centres are actively used in writing the more chance there is of the person writing in the mirror-fashion. This is probably the explanation of the fact that there is a larger proportion of mirror - writers in those over fifteen years of age, and in expert writers, than in those who are not so expert, and only at the copying stage or learning to write. Miryachit or Myriachit. See Jumpers ; Latah. Misanthropi a.—A morbid mental state, allied to melancholia, in which there is a marked aversion to human companionship or society. MiSCarriag'e.—See Abortion; Molar Pregnancy ; Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta AND Cord ; etc. Miscegenation.— The mixture or blending of races of mankind (Lat. miscere, to mix, and gejius, a race), especially the sexual union of whites with negroes. MiSChiati. — A material, consisting of cubes of marble laid irregularly, used for the floors of bathrooms and lavatories, especially in hospitals. MiSO-. — In compound words 7)iiso- (Gr. fiia-elv, to hate) has the meaning of disliking or hating, and is opposed to philo-; e.g. miso-437 MISO- gamy (hatred of marriage), misogyny (hatred of women), misopoedia (dislike of children), and misozoia (hatred of life, or melancholia with a tendency to suicide). Missed Abortion.Abortion {Deferred). "Missing: Link."—A hypothetical ani- mal supposed to have existed as the intermediate type between man and the lower animals. See Anthropology ; Hirsuties ; Homo Caudatus ; Pithecanthropus. Mist. See Meteorology {Fog and Mist). Mist lira..—A pharmaceutical preparation containing one or more drugs dissolved in or diffused through a liquid (water or gum); the dose is always ^ to 1 oz. There are several 7nistur(B in the British Pharmacopoeia, such as mistura ferri composita, mistura cretce, mistura ammoniaci, mistura creosoti, etc. See Pre- scribing. Mitchell, Weir.—Weir Mitchell's treat- ment is the rest cure, or residence in a nursing home with deprivation of letters, telegrams, and the visits of friends, and with massage, abund- ant food (milk), and (sometimes) electricity. See Neurasthenia. Weir Mitchell's disease is erythromelalgia (q.v.). Mithridatism. — An artificially pro- duced condition in which there is supposed to be immunity to a poison, caused by the administration of gradually increasing doses ; a mithridate was the term formerly given to a mixture (an electuary) which was regarded as a universal antidote to poisons or diseases. The term is derived from Mithridates, King of Pontus, who was believed to have made himself proof against poisons by the constant taking of antidotes; he perished by the sword {circa B.C. 63). Mitome.—The denser part of the proto- plasm of a cell or nucleus, existing in the form of fibrils (Gr. /aitos, a thread). Mitosis. — Indirect cellular division or caryocinesis {q.v.), often written karyokinesis ; the nucleus of the cell enlarges, the centrosome becomes double and forms the spindle, the nucleus and spindle unite to form the monaster, and then the diaster stage is reached and the nucleus is divided into two. See Physiology, Cell {Reproduction of Cells, Mitosis). An atypical or asymmetric mitosis is found in the cells of malignant growths. Mitral Valve. See Heart, Myocardium AND Endocardium {Special Pathology, Valvular Affections, Symptomatology, Mitral Stenosis and Incompetence). See also Brain, Affections of IBlood-Vessels {Cerebral Emholism, Causes); Lungs, Vascular Disorders of {Pulmonary Emholism). "MittelSChmerz."—The midpain or intermenstrual dysmenorrhcea. See Menstrua- tion and its Disorders {Dysmenorrhcea); Colic {Diagnosis). Mixed Feeding.—This term is applied specially to that form of infant feeding in which maternal nursing is supplemented or assisted by artificial feeding ; a combination of breast feed- ing and bottle feeding. See Infant Feeding {B7'east Feeding). Mnemonica.—The art of remembering ; memoria technica. Mobilisation. — The undoing of an anchylosis or the loosening of adhesions, e.g. the mobilisation of the stapes in the treatment of middle-ear disease. See Ear, Middle : Chronic Non-suppurative Disease {Treatment). Mobility.—Freedom of movement, e.g. in cases of displacement of the uterus {see Uterus, Displacements) or of diseased joints {see Joints, Diseases of). Modum. See Balneology {Norway and Sweden, Mud-Baths). MoebiUS' Disease.—Periodic attacks of paralysis of the motor oculi or third cranial nerve. Moebius' Syndrome.—Acinesia algera {q.v.). Moeller's Disease.—infantile scurvy or Barlow's Disease. See Scurvy, Infantile {Synojiyms). Moeller's Glossitis. — A superficial affection of the epithelium of the tongue characterised by irregular reddish spots; it resembles "geographical tongue." See Tongue {Glossitis, Superficial). MofTat. See Balneology {Great Britain); Mineral Waters {Sulphur). Mogigraphia.— Writer's cramp (Gr. ^oyts, with difficulty, ypa^to, I write). See Neuroses, Occupation {Scrivener's Palsy). Mogilalia.—Difi&culty of speech; stam- mering or stuttering. See Stammering. MogOStOCia.—Dystocia {q.v.). M. O. H.—The contraction for Medical Officer of Health as applied to the official, a medical practitioner, who assists in carrying out the administration of the sanitary law of the country. See Sewage and Drainage ; Ventila- tion AND Warming ; Vital Statistics ; etc.438 MOIST GANGRENE Moist Gangrene. 'b'ee Gangrene (Varieties). IVIola,.—(1) A rounded mass, usually con- sisting of a degenerated gestation sac, forming in the uterus or Fallopian tube; or (2) a pig- mented spot or ntevus on the skin. See Con- junctiva, Diseases of {Moles); Eyelids, Affec- tions OF {Growths); Skin, Pigmentary Affec- tions OF. Mole: Molar Preg^nancy. See also Abortion (Varieties of Product); Ectopic Gestation (Varieties, Tubal, Tubal Mole); Ovaries, Diseases of {Papillomatous Ovarian Cysts, Rokitansky^s Tumoiir) ; Pregnancy, Pathology of {Affectio?is of Ovum and Decidua, Moles).—The term mole, as applied to a mass formed within the uterus, is of extreme antiquity, and prolonged discussions as to its derivation and true application may be read in the works of the more ancient authors. For a complete account of the early literature of the subject the reader is referred to the Historia Naturalis Molarum Uteri, written by Lamzweerde in 1686. This author gravely discusses the possibility of the conception of moles after intercourse with the devil or with one of the lower animals ; and as the result of various circumstances, such as taking a bath. The frontispiece to his work figures Justice seated above, scales in hand; below is a woman in bed, supported by her attendants, having brought forth several small rat-like animals, which are seen running about in the foreground. These are regarded by two physicians, one of whom maintains, as is indi- cated by the writing on a scroll in his hand, that the patient is virgo intacta; whilst the other, pointing to heaven, argues in the contrary sense. Little reference to the supernatural is found in later works, their avithors, as a rule, dividing moles into two classes—the true and the false. True moles are those which result form a pregnancy which has run an abnormal course; false moles are masses formed in the uterus entirely apart from conception. The descriptions of svibstances recorded as false moles show that these included an infinite variety of pathological products—namely, new growths, such as sarcomata and carcinomata, fibro-myo- mata, polypi of the mucous and fibroid varieties, blood-clots, and bodies composed partly of laminated blood-clot and exfoliated layers of uterine mucosa. The term mole is not now applied to any of the above contents of the uterus, the advance of knowledge having gradually relegated each of them to its proper category under a more descriptive name. In accordance with the tendency to drop vague terms as soon as a deepening analysis renders it possible to do so, many authors have urged that the word " mole" should be excluded altogether from medical literature. But the term mole as applied to altered products of conception has been retained, and is, clini- cally, not without value, as it implies a definite and sufficiently accurate conception of the nature of certain cases, and can be used cor- rectly long before a complete diagnosis can be arrived at. Let us suppose, for instance, that a woman is known to have conceived, but that indications are present which show that her pregnancy is abnormal. There may have been some uterine haemorrhage not followed by abortion. The breasts may have ceased to enlarge, and may have returned to their usual condition. Stirrage may be absent, though amenorrhoea and uterine enlargement may indicate that pregnancy has lasted five months or more. The size of the uterus may not correspond to the calculated duration of pregnancy. Under such circum- stances the term " molar pregnancy " may, as a rule, be employed, until observation renders it possible to determine the condition more exactly. (See " Pregnancy, Pathology of, Ovum and Decidua."). If repeated examination shows that the uterus is increasing in size more quickly than usvial, if repeated haemorrhage occurs, and especially if the uterine tumour feels soft and boggy, the presence of vesicvilar degeneration of the chorion or hydatidiform mole will be suspected. If, on the other hand, uterine enlargement continues very slowly, the other signs of preg- nancy meanwhile disappearing, we may conclude that the ovum is dead, and that the increase in the size of the uterus is due to the escape of blood into it time after time. The blood extra- vasated on each occasion coagulates and forms a series of laminae around the perished ovum, so that when the mass is at last expelled—it may be several months after the death of the foetus—it is foimd to consist mainly of blood in varied stages of degeneration. Such a mass is known as a bloody mole or 7nola cruenta. In other cases it may be observed that the enlarged uterus maintains its size almost exactly, neither growing nor lessening appreciably. Haemorrhage in such case is an uncommon symptom, though it is usually free when at last the uterus expels its contents. This is then found to consist of an ovum whose cavity is much reduced in size, and often contains no trace of a foetus. Its walls, however, are much thickened, and are firm and fleshy in consistency. Section shows that blood has been effused into the space between the chorion and the decidua, and has there coagulated and become more or less organised. The condition is, strictly speaking, one of subchorionic haematoma, and the mass formed is known as a fleshy mole or mola carnosa (q.v.). Hart has described a "fibrous mole," in which organisation had proceeded further than usual, the mass being consequently more tough and fibrous. In439 MOLE: MOLAR PREGNANCY cases of yet another class the uterus is found to decrease slowly in size for some time, although a dead ovum is retained within it. After weeks, or even months, a small shrunken ovum is expelled. In these cases haemorrhage has played no part in the destruction of the ovum, which, after its death, loses bulk by absorption of its fluid elements; and as this loss of bulk is not replaced or exceeded by the effusion of blood into the uterine cavity, the uterus itself lessens in size, since it follows the decrease of the shrinking ovum. Such ova are often termed "blighted." It is clear that the masses known as "bloody mole," "fleshy mole," "fibrous mole," and "blighted ovum" are all simply the uterine content as observed in diiferent varieties of " missed abortion" (q.v.). Their differences in structure depend mainly upon two factors—(1) the amount of blood effused into the cavity of the pregnant uterus ; and (2) the length of time during which the ovum is retained in utero after its death. (See " Preg- nancy, Pathology of. Ovum and Decidua.") Apart from the retention and alteration of complete ova, incomplete abortion may be followed by the formation within the uterus of a mass or mole composed of layers of blood-clot surrounding a more or less detached portion of placenta. Such a mass, if pediculated, is known as "placental polypus," and may so closely resemble a true polypus that its true nature cannot be discovered without microscopic examination. Questions of medico-legal importance may arise in connection with any mass expelled from the uterus. In the first place, it may be important to determine whether or not such a mass is a product of conception. For this purpose sections must be made and submitted to careful microscopic examination. The dis- covery of chorionic villi is the only positive evidence that pregnancy has occurred, since the work of Eden and others has thrown serious doubt vipon the belief that the presence of decidual cells affords proof that conception has taken place. Secondly, question may arise as to the date of the conception to which the formation of the mole is due. For example, the case of Kitson v. Playfair arose concerning an abortion which was completed on 23rd February 1894. The mass then removed from the uterus was stated to contain fresh placental tissue left in utero after a recent abortion. This state- ment was considered to be libellous, and the mass was explained by the plaintiff as the result of conception at least eighteen months pre- viously. The ovum was said to have perished in October 1892, when some haemorrhage occurred, but to have been retained in utero sixteen months thereafter. The defence pled privilege and lost the case, which could doubt- less have been won had justification been pled. For after placental tissue has been retained in utero for a few weeks, the chorionic villi and the blood in the intervillous spaces undergo changes which render them easily distinguish- able from those of fresh placenta. To say exactly how long an ovum has remained dead in utero is impossible, because several factors are concerned in determining the alterations which occur ; but the distinction between fairly fresh placenta and that which has been retained in utero for some weeks should present no difficulty. Tubal Mole.—In ectopic pregnancy the ovum may die, and more or less blood may be effused into it just as in uterine gestation. The result is the same in each if septic infection does not occur, and if the effusion of blood is not sufficient to cause rupture of the gestation sac, the blood within the sac becomes clotted, and forms a mole within the tube or other structure which contains the ovum. Many cases of this kind doubtless occur without being recognised. A considerable amount of absorp- tion follows, and in some very well authenticated instances the only trace left by the condition has been slight thickening of the broad ligament involved. (See " Ectopic Gestation.") Moll men. — The Latin word molimen (plural molimina) means a great undertaking or attempt, and the term has come to be employed especially in relation to such a phenomenon as the establishment of menstrua- tion in the sense of an unsuccessful endeavour towards the performance of the function ] by menstrual molimina we mean the symptoms (pain in the back, down-bearing efforts, head- ache, sickness, etc.) associated with the men- arche in young women and recurring monthly, or else the same symptoms occurring after the menopause (natural or artificially induced). Mollinuin.—An ointment the basis of which is mollin, a soft soap of caustic potash and cocoa-nut oil. Mollities Ossium. See Osteo- malacia. MollUSCUin.—A morbid state charac- terised by the presence of soft (Lat. mollis, soft) tumours of the skin and subcutaneous tissue; there are two chief varieties, molluscum fibrosum and molluscum contagiosum. See Tumours {Neurofibromatosis, Molluscum Fibro- sum) ; Tumours of the Skin {Benign, Molluscum Contagiosum); Eyelids, Affections of {Growths of the Lids, Molluscum Contagiosum). Molybdenum.—A metallic element (Mo), closely resembling lead (Gr. //oAu/3Sos, lead), found in nature as the sulphide (MoSj) and in commerce as ammonium molybdate ((NH^)2 M0O4). Various compound words are formed from it, such as molybdamblyopia (amblyopia due to lead poisoning), molybd-MOLYBDENUM 440 epilepsia (saturnine epilepsy), molybdocachexia (lead cachexia), molybdocolica (lead colic), molybdoparesis (paresis due to lead poisoning), molybdotromos (tremor due to lead poisoning), etc. MOMctCid.—In Chemistry, a base which is capable of replacing one hydrogen atom in an acid is called a monacid base. IVIona.Cl.—In Chemistry, the term monad (Gr. fx.6vo<;, alone) means a univalent radical or element; in Biology, it is the name given to a unicellular organism, e.g. an infusorian. Monakow's (Von) Bundle.— A tract of nerve fibres (i-ubro-spinal tract) passing from the red nucleus into the spinal cord. See Spinal Cord, Medical [Anatmnical Considera- tions). MonamidO Acid.—An acid in which one of the hydrogen atoms of the radical has been replaced by amidogen, e.g. amido-acetic H 0 Hx I II acid >N—C—C—0—H, or C2H5NO2. h/ I H Monannine.—An amine derived from a single molecule of ammonia, e.g. ethylamine C^H, I C^H, j H > N. or dietliylamine C2H5 > N ; a diamine . H ) H ) is derived from two molecules of ammonia, e.g. ethylene diamine C2H^(NH2)2. Monas.—One of the infusoria. Monaster. — A stage in mitotic cell division. See Mitosis ; Caryocinesis ; Physi- ology, Cell {Reproduction of Cells). Mond Gas.—A kind of fuel used to de- crease the amount of smoke produced in manu- factures, e.g. in the potteries; it contains some carbon monoxide. It is named after Ludwig Mond (6. 1839). Mong'Olian. — The term Mongolian is applied to clinical types of idiocy and imbecility in which the facial appearance is like that of the Mongolian race, i.e. the eyes are set close together and the head is short and spherical. See Cretinism {Diagnosis); Hand [Appearance in Mongolian Imbecility); Head (Shape in Mongolian Imbecility); Mental Deficiency (Congenital Cases, Mongoloid Idiots). Mong^Olism. — The sum total of the peculiarities which distinguish the infant with Mongolian idiocy from other babies and make him look like the young of a different species of man; these include the shape of the head, the characters of the hand and of the face, the largeness of the tongue, tongue-sucking, etc. See Mongolian. Monilethrix.—A morbid condition (Lat. monile, necklace, and Gr. Opl^, a hair) of the hairs in which they become beaded from the appearance of fusiform nodes upon their shafts; trichorrhexis nodosa. See Skin, Bacteriology OF (Trichorrhexis Nodosa). Moniliform. — Beaded or necklace-like, e.g. the beaded or moniliform ribs of rickets. Monkshood. See Aconite; Toxi- cology (Alkaloids, Monkshood). Monneret's Pulse.—The typical pulse of jaundice, slow, soft, and full. Mono-.—In compound words mono- (Gr. judvos, alone or single), as a prefix, has the meaning of single; e.g. monoanesthesia (anaes- thesia of a single part), monobasic acid or salt (one in which a single hydrogen atom is re- placeable by a base), monoblepsia (a condition of vision in which objects can be distinctly seen only when one eye is used, or that form of colour-blindness in which only one colour can be perceived), etc., etc. MonOCephalUS.—A type of double monster in which there are two bodies but only one head. Monochorea. — Chorea limited to one part, e.g. to one arm or one leg. See Chorea. Monochromatophilia. — The property of the normal red blood corpuscle, when fixed and stained by aniline dyes, by which it shows a marked affinity for a single acid stain; in diseased conditions the corpuscle loses this special affinity and may be stained by either the acid or the basic element or by both, and it is then said to be polychromatophilic. Monochromatopsia. — A form of colour-blindness in which the whole spectrum appears in shades of some one colour, e.g. green. See Colour Vision (Monochromatopsia). Monocular.—Belonging to one eye, e.g. monocular vision or monocular diplopia. MonOCUluS.—A teratological type in which there is only one eye. It is sometimes used as a synonym of cyclopia, but this is an incorrect use; the term, if employed at all, should be given only to foetuses in which there is one eye not in a central but in a lateral position. Monodactyly. — A teratological type in which the digits of the hand or foot are represented by a solitary finger or toe. MoncestrOUS. — A term applied to animals (mammals) in whom the reproductive life takes the form (apart from pregnancy) of a series of ancestrous cycles ; i.e. there is a cycle consisting of procestrum (" coming into season "), of oestrus (period of desire), of metoestrumVOL. VI. Plate V. To face page no. MONGOLISM. (Dr. J. Stewart Fowler's casi s.) "Mongolian " Imbecility.441 MONCESTROUS (subsidence of desire), and of anoestrum (resting period), and this cycle is repeated two or three times in the year. MonoideiSin. — Fixation of the mind upon a single idea, especially as a form of monomania, sometimes the result of hypnotic influence. MonOina,ni£l.—A variety of insanity in which the patient shows mental derangement only on one subject. See Insanity, Nature AND Symptoms (Types of Episodic Insanity, Monomania); Paranoia. Mononucleosis.—An increase in the number of lymphocytes in the blood; lympho- cytosis. Monoparaesthesia. — Parajsthesia limited to one part of the body or to one limb. Monoparesis.—Partial paralysis of one part of the body, e.g. of one limb. Monopiiasia.—A form of aphasia in which the power of speech is very small, being limited to one word or sentence. MonopllObia.—Morbid dread of being alone. See Neurasthenia {Symptomatology). Monophthalmus. — Unilateral absence of the eyeball; monopsia ; monoculus. Monopleg'ia.—Paralysis of one limb, of one set of muscles, or even of one muscle. See Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of {Brachial Monoplegia); Brain, Tumours of {Localising Symptoms, Paralysis); Brain, Surgery op {Compression of Brain, Diagnosis); Hypnotism {Therapeutic Uses); Paralysis {In- troduction, Seat of Lesion). Monopsia. See Monophthalmus ; Cyclopia. Monopus or Monopodia. — A teratological type in which one foot is congeni- tally absent; it differs from sympodia in which two feet are fused into one, but it is sometimes (erroneously) used as synonymous with it. Monorchism.—The abnormal state in which only one testicle is present or apparent. See Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Abnor- malities of the Testicles). MonOSOmuS.—A teratological type in which there are two heads and one (fused) body ; according to Taruffi, the Monosomatous terata are those monstrosities in which there is one individual, as distinguished from the poly- somatous or disomatous terata, double monsters, or fused twins. See Teratology. Monospasm.—Spasm localised to one group of muscles, as in contusion of the brain. See Brain, Surgery of {Compression, Diagnosis). Monostoma LentiS.—/See Parasites {Helminths, Trematodes). Monotal.—The ethyl glycolic acid ester of guaiacol, suggested as a substitute for guaiacol in chronic gout, sciatica, and neuralgia; it is applied externally to the affected part. Monro, Foramen of. See Embryo- logy, Human {Fourth Week, Development of Brain). Monsel'S Solution.— The Liquor Ferri Subsulphatis of the U.S. Pharmacopoeia, often used as a styptic ; the subsulphate of iron, Fe^0(S04)g, is sometimes called Alonsel's Salt. Monsters and Monstrosities.— See Teratology ; Labour, Precipitate and Pro- longed {Faults in the Passenger, Monstrosities ; Hermaphroditism. Monstriparity. — The tendency ob- served in some women to give birth to monsters. Monsummano. See Balneology {Italy, Thermal Waters). Mons Veneris. See Generation, Female Organs of {External Generative Oi'gans). Montana. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). Mont Boron. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Riviera). Mont Dore. See Mineral Waters {Alkaline). Montecatini. See Balneology {Italy, Miiriated Waters). Montegrgfia's Dislocation. —That form of hip-joint dislocation in which the head of the femur is found near the anterior superior iliac spine, and the limb is rotated outwards. Monteggia was born in 1762 and died in 1815. See Hip-Joint, Injuries of {Secondary Disloca- tions. Montemayor y Bejar. See Balneo- logy {Spain and Portugal). Montery. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {America, Southern California). Montgromery's Glands or Tu- bercles. — Distended sebaceous glands in the areola round the nipple of the breast, very evident in pregnancy as whitish spots. See Pregnancy, Physiology {Local Changes, Mam- mce); Mammary Gland, Diseases of {Anatomical Considerations, Glands of Montgomery) ; Puer- perium. Pathology {Affections of Areola of Breast, Anoinalies). Monthly Sickness. See Menstrua- tion and its Disorders,442 MONTPELLIER Montpellier. See Medicine, History OP {Sydenham). Mont re UX. See Thbbapbutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). " IVIOOnca.lf." — A monster or a false conception or a mole expelled from the uterus ; a " menstrual lump." Its etymology, which is doubtful, is considered in a note in the British Medical Journal, vol. i. for 1900, p. 780. Moon's Type.—A form of type for the use of the blind in reading. See Blindness {Editcation of the Blind). Moore's Test.—The liqvior potass* test for sugar. See Urine, Pathological Changes in {Sugars). Moral Insanity. ^S'ee Civil Incapacity {Moral Insanity); Insanity, its Nature and Symptoms {Mental Functions, Moral Sense) ; Paranoia {Moral Insanity of Prichard); Senile Insanity {Psychoses of Senility, Moral Insanity). Moral Training^. See Mind, Educa- tion OF THE {Moral Imbeciles and Perverts); Morphinomania {Moral Wreck). Morand'S Disease.— Paresis affecting the lower limbs. Morand'S Foot.—Polydactyly in which the digits number eight; a case was reported by Morand in 1770. Morax'S Diplobacillus. See Con- junctiva, Diseases of {Acute Ophthalmia). Morbidity.—The amount of sickness in a town or country or hospital; it is distinguished from mortality, which only concerns itself with the deaths. Morbific.—Disease-producing (Lat. mor- bus, disease, facio, I make). Morbilli. See Measles (p. 220). Morbus.-—Disease. The term is now used only in such expressions as Morbus Addisonii (Addison's Disease), Morbus Brightii (Bright's Disease), Morbus Cairuleus (Congenital Heart Disease), Morbus Coxce (Hip-Joint Disease), Morbus Innominatus (Beriberi), Mo7-bus Sacer (Epilepsy), and Cholera Morbus. See Adrenal Glands ; Addison's Disease ; Beriberi {Nomen- clature) ; F(ETUS AND Ovum, Development {Foetal Circulation); Heart, Congenital Malforma- tions OF {Cyanosis); Hip-Joint, Diseases of {Tuberculosis, Morbus Coxoe); Nephritis ; Pur- pura {Alorbus Maculosus of Werlhof); Syphilis {Historical, Morbus Gallicus). Morcellation or Morcellement. —The breaking up of a tumour {e.g. a uterine fibroid) or of the foetus, prior to its removal piecemeal. See Uterus, Non - malignant Tumours of {Treatment of Fibroids, Vaginal Hys terec tomy). Morel's Ear.—An abnormality of the external ear which is larger than normal, has a thin rim, and appears as if it had been ironed out; it is commoner in persons with an insane inheritance. Morell'S System.—A dry method for the disposal of sewage in which riddled ashes are used. Morg^agrni's Columns. —Longi- tudinal folds in the mucous membrane of the rectum. Morgag^ni'S Hydatid. See Genera- tion, Female Organs of {Fallopian Tubes). Morg^ag^ni's Valves or Sinuses. —Small pouches in the rectal mucosa just above the anus. Moria.—Dementia or idiocy. Moritz, St. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Switzerland). Morn i ng;^ Sickness. See Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Symptoms); Alcoholism {DrunTten- ness); Puerpbrium, Pathology {Puerperal In- sanities). MoroCOCCUS. See Eczema {Etiology, Mycosiform Eczema); Skin, Diseases of Sweat AND Sebaceous Glands {Seborrhoea). MorOSiS.—Idiocy or mental dulness. Morotrophium.—A lunatic asylum. Morphia. See Amblyopia {Toxic); Anesthesia, Chloroform {Lessening the Dis- advantages of); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Treatment, Morphia); Drug Eruptions {Mor- phin); Eclampsia {Treatment, Sedatives); Heart, Affections op Myocardium and Endo- cardium {Treatment of Dyspnoea) ; Insanity, Etiology op {Exotoxic Causes); Opium ; Peri- toneum, Acute Peritonitis {Treatment); Pharmacology ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Treatment of Gastric Neuroses and Cancer); Tetany {Toxic Conditions); Toxi- cology {Opium). Morphina or Morphine. See Alkaloids ; Analgesics and Anodynes {Morphina). Morphinism. See Morphinomania; Toxicology {Opium). Morphinomania and Allied Drug: Habits. Morphinomania ..... 443 cocainism 450MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS 443 Antipyrin ...... 452 Antifebrin ...... 452 Paraldehyde ...... 452 Chlorodynb ...... 453 Eau de Cologne, etc. .... 453 See Morphia (and cross-references); Hyp- notism (/« Insanity); Urine, Pathological Changes in (Pentose). The term morphinomania, as coined by Charcot, or morphinism as used by Levinstein, signifies an uncontrollable craving for morphia by means of subcutaneous injection, which takes hold of its victim with a grip of terrible power, ever increasing its hold and dominion, and demoral- ising the mind, the senses, and the system of those who own its sway. The first attempts at hypodermic medication were made by Mr. Rhynd of Dublin ^ in 1845, while to Mr. Wood in 1855 is due the popular- isation of the method. For a long time the vice of opium-eating, including smoking and drinking, has been known and recognised as one of the great social evils of Oriental countries. But even in England opium has had its victims, though not to such an extent as to obtrude themselves on society and be recognised as a great class of unfortunates. De Quincey maintains that in his time (1856) they were "a very numerous class indeed," and gives a long list of celebrities of the day known by him to indulge in the habit. Is morphia, then, going to take the place of opium, and bring to us Western peoples the horrors we have been accvistomed to associate with the smoking dens of the East 1 It would appear that the use of morphia has already become a steadily-increasing habit. Hospitals have been opened specially for the treatment of morphia habitues. There is one in Berlin ^ organised by Levinstein, and one at Gratz in Styria with three hundred patients. In Brooklyn ^ one has been opened for habitues of morphia, cocaine, and chloral. Dr. Norman Kerr in his work on " Inebriety " says: " The result of my observation is that the habit of morphia injection is undoubtedly on the increase." According to Jouet and Zam- baco the practice has become almost a matter of fashion amongst the ladies of Paris and Con- stantinople, and presents are made of pretty syringes, with silver and jewel-set cases, so that ladies can make reciprocal injections of morphine at any convenient opportunity. To show how little is thought of the habit abroad, a traveller relates how a lady in a railway carriage in the south of France " raised her skirt so as to expose the bare skin of her thigh immediately above the stocking, and in- ' Vide Dublin Medical Press, March 12, 1845, p. 167. 2 B. M. J., 1890, vol. ii. p. 812. 3 76. 1891, vol. i. p. 1393. jected a syringe full of morphia, giving her fellow-passengers, who listened with intense in- terest, a long account of the subjective symptoms that would follow."^ According to M. Foville's estimate, there were 40,000 morphinonianiacs in Paris in 1883. In 1893 there were, according to M. Dubut de Laforet, 100,000.- One of the popular preachers in Chicago lately stated to his audience that there were in that city 35,000 persons who habitually took morphia. He believes, however, that lately the number is diminishing rather than increasing since cycling became popular, for it has led many to seek, from fresh air and exercise, that relief from insomnia and worry which otherwise would have been looked for through the hypo- dermic syringe.^ Morphia injection was introduced into Shang- hai as a cure, forsooth, for opium-smoking. From this it was introduced into Hong-Kong, and six months after there were twenty houses carrying on a systematic trade, each house with an average of fifty clients, who called regularly morning and evening for their injec- tion. These injections were given by ignorant, unqualified persons at a charge of about one halfpenny, and the practice was growing with such fearful rapidity that happily the authori- ties had to take notice of it, and issued an ordinance making the practice illegal.* In 1895, we read that the consuls in China con- stantly draw attention to the continued habit of injecting morphia by unqualified persons at several ports. Those who sell morphia and give the injection make a profit of from 200 to 400 per cent. One victim said : " It is much cheaper than opium-smoking, and I get the same satisfaction out of it. I know of ten Chinese doctors, each of whom treats fifty to a hundred men daily with this medicine." ^ In 1896 it is reported that the practice of injecting morphia by unqualified persons having been checked at Hong-Kong, has spread to Singapore, and is becoming very prevalent on the mainland. I It is quite evident, therefore, even allowing ! for some exaggeration in these statements, I that morphinomania is increasing with terrible rapidity and spreading with fearful swiftness. There is equally little doubt that it is upon the members of the medical profession that the greatest havoc is being wrought, as compared i with any other class of the community. Ober- steiner, speaking of the prevalence of morphinism among the profession in Austria, hints broadly that, in his view, there is poetical justice in the fact that this fatal habit should work most 1 B. M. J., 1892, vol. i. p. 187. 2 16. 1893, vol. i. p. 1026. ^ lb. 1895, vol. ii. p. 1371. * lb. 1893, vol. ii. pp. 803 and 1135. ^ lb. 1895, vol. ii. p. 572. ^ lb. 1896, vol. i. p. 1531.MORPHINOMANIA AND 444 ALLIED DRUG HABITS havoc among the class of men who, by carelessly prescribing the drug, and instructing in the use of the hypodermic syringe, have been mainly instrumental in disseminating it. Of Levin- stein's 110 cases, 47 occurred in persons belong- ing to the medical profession or dependent on it: thus, 32 physicians, 8 wives of physicians, 1 son of a physician, 4 nurses, 1 midwife, and 1 student of medicine were among his patients. M. Lacassagne states that of 545 morphino- maniacs within his knowledge, 289 were doctors, or over 50 per cent. He says it is well known that several of the most distinguished men of the profession in Germany who have died in recent years were devotees to the fatal drug.^ Dr. Jules Rocard says that females and doctors are most addicted. Women delight in declaring how they indulge in the vice, and show with pride their ornamental syringes. Men take the greatest pains to hide their vice, so it is difficult to estimate the precise numbers, but he believes that doctors and those associated with them form half the total male victims.^ Dr. M'Naughton Jones agrees that medical men form the largest number of cases. The first introduction to the seductions of the drug can generally be traced to its adminis- tration by a medical man for the relief of pain, melancholia, or insomnia. This is where our responsibility arises, and where we should con- sider well before we grant that first introduction. It is questionable whether for melancholia and insomnia it should ever be given, especially by the hypodermic method, except as a last resort. Some cases undoubtedly originate in other ways, but they are quite in the minority. A patient of Dr. Richardson told him that he took it first simply to see what it was like, and finding it pleasant continued it till he found he could not live without it. In another case related by Obersteiner, a physician could not believe in the ease and pleasure it gave to a patient suff"ering from cancer ; he took one dose himself as an experiment, but it immediately awakened in him such a craving that he was never afterwards able to give it up. William Blair, author of The Oiyimn Habitwhen reading De Quincey's Confessions, shvit the book after having read " the Pleasures," and without reading " the Pains," he began deliberately to cultivate the habit, and soon learned the pains for himself with many a bitter regret! These may illustrate cases originating from experiment or curiosity, and doubtless many so arise. Some few may arise from imitation, as instanced by Dr. Foot, where "one could give no better reason for it than that a friend who lived in the house with him had recourse to it, and that he ' followed suit.'" At least one case has 1 B. M. J., 1893, vol. ii. p. 142. 2 Cf. Union MMicalc, 1894. ^ Harper and Bros., 1865. arisen in a downright criminal manner, viz. : where a husband induced his wife to take it, in order that he might get a divorce in the French courts.^ It is fortunate that every constitution does not bear morphia well, that on some it does not produce that intellectual excitement and psychical pleasure which creates the inappeas- able hunger; that on others even small doses produce great depression, sickness of stomach, hallucinations, and horrible dreams. Also, that as with alcohol, the strength of each individual's self-control largely determines whether, having once tasted the sweets, he is able to firmly lay them aside again. But it is not a drug to be trifled with; it has helplessly bound great intellects as surely and as easily as it has en- slaved the most frivolous pleasure seeker. So while still vaunting in the strength of our own self-control, we will yet wisely decline to put it to the test. Some few striking instances are on record, as if to cheer the fallen, but not to encourage the foolhardy, where victims have conquered through their own unaided strength. Dr. Blairmentions the case of a man who used morphine for several years, and gave it up after sixty-five days' struggle; it was ten months, however, before he began to get a little sleep. De Quincey continued the use, or abuse, of opium for fifty-two years. Four times he broke himself off it, but only for a few months at a time, and then continued it again. Finally he gave it up for ever. In his own words : " I triumphed, but infer not, reader, from this word 'triumphed ' a condition of joy and exulta- tion ; think of me as one, even when four months had passed, still agitated, writhing, throbbing, palpitating, shattered." The quantity of morphia or opium daily taken by a habitue varies greatly, partly according to the length of time they have taken the drug, partly owing to individual susceptibility. Christison mentions that " 450 drops of the best laudanum have been taken by a gentleman, unused to opium, without any other effect than some headache and constipation; and, what is even more singular, his son, aged six years, took 60 minims of muriate of morphia without any apparent ill effect." Another case is mentioned of a young man, who, reading of the visions produced by opium, and "yearning for the large excitement," took 60 grains at a dose, yet lived to tell the tale.^ In certain diseases attended with pain enormous doses are tolerated. Dr. Walter Smith ^ mentions that in a case of chronic rheumatism 45 grains of morphia have been given, and in another case of metritis with rectal fistula 24 grains of the acetate of moi'phia were given in one day. He also quotes Fleming as mentioning a case in which 20 grains of 1 B. M. J., 1891. vol. i. p. 484. ^ ^ioc. cit. ^ N. American Itevietv, vol. xcv. * Commentary on the B. P.ALLIED DRUG HABITS 445 MORPHINOMANIA AND morphia were taken at a dose, and another case in which the daily quantum rose to the almost incredible amount of 462"9 grains of morphia. This, however, at last proved fatal. Dr. Braith- waite 1 cites a case in which 40 grains of morphia were taken hypodermically in twenty-four hours. De Quincey confesses to 8000 minims of lauda- num = 320 grains of opium, as his daily portion at one time of his life. In a case reported by Dr. Stuart of New Zealand, the daily quantity injected for some months was 40 grains of the acetate of morphia.^ A case is reported of a chemist who took 60 grains of hypodermic injection per diem.^ Norman Kerr mentions the case of a female who drank one pint of laudanum daily, and swallowed 3 grains of solid opium at a single dose; also a case in which 20 grains of morphia were injected in a day in divided doses. In my own experience, one case took 12 grains of morphia hypodermically as his regular daily average ; in another the regular dose was 15 grains. This was an American sailor, who from holding a high position had sunk to the level of an ordinary seaman through this vice. He sailed from San Francisco for Liverpool having provided himself with 600 grains of morphia, 2| lbs. of "gum opium," and one poimd of " ymshi" to open if his supply of morphia became exhausted. He calculated that by using only 15 grains a day his stock would last out till he got to "Europe," leaving a little over in case of delay on the journey and until he got a fresh supply on this side. He explained that "ymshi" was the residue left in the pipe after smoking opium; this when rubbed up with water made a paste which he called "tinker"—by the addition of more water he was able to inject this hypodermically, but it was difficult to man- age properly and caused abscesses. "Ymshi" could be obtained plentifully in San Francisco, where there are many smoking dens, and was very cheap. Having mentioned this Yankee, I may say here that he added several new words to my vocabulary, e.y. he invariably spoke and wrote of the syringe as a "hypo- gun," and naturally then the injection Avas a "shot." These large doses are of course arrived at by degrees, tolerance being gradually cultivated. At the same time it is astonishing that the drug can be so quickly got rid of. It is well known that it is rapidly eliminated by the kidneys; it has also been well established by Hitzig* that morphia is secreted by the stomach after hypodermic injection; and it is quite possible that some may, as Diedreich has pointed out, be converted into some substances 1 Med. Temperance Journal, October 1887. 2 Foot, Duh. Journ. Med. Sci., 1889. £. M. J., 1890, vol. i. p. 1470. Berlin, klin. Woch., 1892. No. 49. which have the property of, to some extent, counteracting the toxic eif'ects of the drug. The next question to be considered is diagnosis. This only applies to cases in which the vice is concealed or unsuspected. In such cases it is, as Dr. Foot says, rather a question of detection than diagnosis. Not infrequently the cause of the patient's condition, in the early stages, is not for a moment suspected by his or her closest relatives or friends. It is most studiously concealed from the doctor, and guarded by the most vigorous falsehoods if the question is approached. A lady under Dr. Wilson's care exclaimed: " I call God to witness I neither now have, nor have had since I began the treatment, any preparation of opium or morphia whatever." Within ten minutes afterwards sixty quarter-grain pills of morphia were discovered secreted under her bolster. The points to be noted are :—The face becomes pallid and pasty; anxiety, melancholy, and distrust are depicted in it; patient wishes to be let alone, and so becomes unsociable and irritable; he is restless and shifty, and so loses the power of concentration and application to work. The appetite fails and actual gastric disturbance is freqvient. He sleeps little, and that little is disturbed by unpleasant dreams. The pvilse reveals nothing imless a tracing is taken ; it is said to be normal during the period of satisfaction, but when the patient begins to feel cravings for the drug the pulse curve shows a flat top. If such a train of symptoms arouses suspicion, an examination of the urine ^ may now give some light. If morphia be found in ^ Cf. Wynter Blyth, Poisons: their Effects and Detec- tion, 1884, p. 292, etc. "The method adopted by DragendorfF to extract morphine from . . . urine ... is to shake the liquid (aciditied with a mineral acid) several times with amyl alcohol, which, on removal, separates urea and any bile acids. The liquid thus purified is then alkalised, and shaken up with amyl alcohol, and this amyl alcohol should contain any morphia that was present. On evaporation it may be pure enough to admit of identification, but if not, it may be redissolved and purified on the usual principles." [That is, dissolve in acidulated absolute alcohol, filter, evaporate the filtrate to dryness, dissolve in water, make alkaline, and extract again with amylic alcohol.] Tests (p. 280).—1. Production of Morphine Hydro- chloride.—A solution of iodine dissolved in hydriodic acid gives even in extremely dilute solutions a pre- cipitate. The crystals are dark red in colour, very definite in form ; eitlier free or collected in little radial groups. 2. Iodic Acid Test.—Dissolve in the least possible quantity of water, with the assistance of one or two drops of hydrochloric acid ; mix with a very little starch paste, evaporate in porcelain dish, at a gentle heat to dryness. After cooling add to the dry residue a drop of a solution of 1 part of iodic acid in 15 parts of water : if -^Tj of a grain of morphine be present, a blue colour will be developed. No ptomaine has been obtained which both liberates iodine from iodic acid and gives with iodised hydriodic acid a precipitate of the definite and identical form of morphine hydrochloride. Therefore both reactions above (but not necessarily one above) are proof of the presence of morphia.446 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS it an excuse may be made to examine the patient stripped, then puncture-marks of the needle may be seen, especially if looked for on the extensor aspect of the left forearm or on the outer side of the right thigh and buttock. An abscess or small ulcer may be revealed, or even many such, with scars and stains of old ones. If one comes across a subcutaneous abscess on the limbs or trunk, and, seeing no immediate cause for it, find its contents foetid—suspect morphia injection. But failing all such definite proofs, if the suspected person can be isolated away from his own home and closely watched so as to prevent him getting morphia, the craving will in due course appear, if the suspicions are correct, and so unmask the case. Even then no reliance can be placed on the statements of the patient as to either the amount or the frequency of the dose. Where there has been concealment the physician must be very certain of his ground before making a diagnosis of morphinism, seeing that it may involve the patient in a charge of gross un- truthfulness. In many cases the diagnosis is not difficult. One patient I have seen, a gentle- man by birth and education, was in the habit of carrying a piece of dirty newspaper in his pocket, and after each injection tore off a small piece, moistened it on his tongue, and applied it over the puncture. His arms were, in con- sequence, one mass of festering sores, scabs, pus, and newspaper, associated in sickening com- bination. Another patient, the Yankee before mentioned, had hundreds of scabs, blotches, and sores scattered over his body. These were to be found on all parts of the arms from the wrists up, all over both legs from the ankles up, all over the trunk except a triangular area on the back, having the angles at the two shoulders and upper lumbar spine. In the groins the marks were particularly numerous, and he explained this by saying that he felt the effect more quickly there than anywhere else. The marks consisted of (1) bluish stains very simi- lar in size and appearance to tdches bleuatres — in some parts these were as close together as the pits of smallpox, but I am at a loss to explain them unless the pigmentation was due to " ymshi" ; besides these there were (2) an enormous number of pitted scars from small ulcers, together with (3) actual abscesses and ulcers in all stages, and (4) recent punctures also, appearing as small red dots. The effects of the abuse of morphia are fairly well known in the abstract, but it may serve some useful purpose to consider them some- what briefly in detail. At first, as a rule, the injections give genuine pleasure, but this soon becomes short lived, and after a regularly shortening interval is succeeded by a restlessness and craving which can only be appeased by another dose. Very soon, therefore, it is in order to allay this craving, " the terrible feeling," " the horrible sensation" as some victims express it, that they seek a fresh injection, and not for the pleasure that it imparts. To avoid a too rapid shortening of the interval, the strength of the dose has to be increased, and thus enormous doses are arrived at. The first effect of the dose is stimulating and exciting, brightening up the dormant faculties and awakening any energy the frame is capable of; but this stage is soon succeeded by a feeling of calmness, and then by dulness and stupor, soon to be arrested by a renewal of the restless craving. These latter stages being very much longer than the one of excitation, the general condition is one of fatuous listlessness; in fact, in the later stages of the habit, excitation may almost be said to be absent. Thus any of the business of life to be accomplished by the habitue must be attempted with the immediate aid of the needle—he is absolutely its slave. More and more the appetite becomes capricious until it is altogether lost, so that it is with difficulty he can get the stomach to take food or to retain it. Once the habit is fairly established there is no diminution of the secre- tions, and the bowels instead of being consti- pated, are regular or even relaxed. Sleep, however, is greatly interfered with ; it becomes broken and fitful, and is disturbed by horrible dreams, so that he actually dreads the approach of nightfall. All these conditions tend, less rapidly than might be expected, but none the less surely, to bring about impairment of the nutritive processes, nerve exhaustion, enfeebled mental capacity, general wasting and emacia- tion, terminating certainly in insanity or death. Besides these general ill-effects there is pro- duced in men impotence and sterility, and in women amenorrhoea, sterility, and gradual atrophy of the genital organs.^ As with almost all other inebriates, "love is transformed to hate, and he not unseldom loathes the sight of the devoted companion whom in his prenarcotic days he cherished with the tenderest devotion." "One man sold his wife for £\'2 and smoked the proceeds ! " ^ Albuminuria is frequent and urfemia not uncommon. Huchard reports ten cases of albuminuria in morphinomania, end- ing in uraemia, and Lowenstein reports six or seven similar cases.^ The wretchedness, misery, despair, and actual poverty induced by this absorbing vice not rarely leads the bond-servant to suicide, and this appears especially to be the case since cocaine came into use.* Many indeed seek to break their bondage by substituting another drug, such as cocaine or chloral, only to find themselves doubly bound by, if possible, a stronger and more deplorable vice. A minor evil which these unfortunates suffer is the 1 Passower, Ohst. Soc. St. Petersburg, 1893. ^ Norman Kerr, Inebriety. ^ British Medical Journal, 1890, vol. i. p. 1275. lb., vol. ii. p. 812.447 ALLIED DRUG HABITS MORPHINOMANIA AND formation of abscesses and ulcers at the site of puncture. This is almost invariable sooner or later, as the familiarity which breeds care- lessness leads to the use of dirty, uncleansed needles. This indeed, in the case of the gentle- man already mentioned, who used newspaper to cover the punctures, was the immediate cause of death, for though broken off his morphia he developed vague symptoms, with an erratic febrile temperature, ending in pulmonary com- plications, jaundice, and death. A post-mortem examination revealed a large foetid abscess in the region of the tail of the pancreas. This had burrowed into the spleen, and opened into the colon. There were scores of small abscesses, varying in size from a pin's head to a large pea, scattered throughout the sub- stance of the liver, and a similar condition in both lungs, together with large areas of consolidation. Another accident which frequently happens is the injection of the drug directly into a vein. The symptoms that follow this accident are striking and so alarming that it may not be out of place to give them here. In about thirty seconds an intense tingling sensation is ex- perienced in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, soon accompanied by profuse sweat- ing and intense throbbing, first over the forehead then over the whole head, with excruciating pain, as if the skull would burst asunder. The face becomes first deeply flushed, then cyanosed and swollen ; the eyes fixed, staring, and blood- shot ; the pupils are generally dilated as if over- stimulation had paralysed the ciliary nerve of the pupil sphincter. The action of the heart is then rapid, irregular, and feeble, and the breathing rapid and very shallow, as the least sigh seems to aggravate the intense cerebral pain. These symptoms last about fifteen to twenty minutes, varying with the amount of the dose, then gradually pass off. Though the patient may have experienced the symptoms several times, and be quite aware of what has happened, they cause the greatest alarm to him and to any one who may be witness of them. It is said by some that the morphinomaniac becomes not merely a bodily and mental wreck, but also a striking moral wreck. I believe that this statement is much too sweeping. It is granted that many, if not all, when the drug is withheld, will go almost any length to obtain it. Coleridge hired men to prevent him from getting opium, and dismissed them if they did their duty. He put himself under medical care to be cured of his vice, and pretended to be getting better, but all the time procured laudanum by stealth. There are plenty of instances of highly pious and honourable persons who, having become addicted to the drug, descended to lying, stealing, and cheating in order to obtain it; but if we look on that as part and parcel of their vice, we need not strip them of every shred of morality they ever had. It may not be said of all, but I believe it can be said of some: They were born gentlemen, they will die gentlemen, no matter to what depth of misfortune they have fallen. The next and most important consideration is the treatment. Can these unfortunates be saved 1 They can, but the chances are against them. Foot says: " Emancipation from morphin-slavery is unattainable by voluntary effort." " Jaeckel is unaware of any successful case of self-treatment in morphinism, and does not advocate its being attempted, even in the case of medical men." Besides the case mentioned by Blair, I have only found one other case attested, viz., that of a chemist, who had taken up to 60 grains of morphia a day; he gave it up in October 1880, and in October 1890 was still free, never having taken it in the meantime.^ It is obvious, therefore, we must assist them to do what they cannot do them- selves. We must never forget the fiery ordeal, the terrible battle they have to fight before they can gain deliverance. The wretchedness and enfeeblement of mind and body will need unfailing sympathy, firmness, gentleness, and tact on the part both of physician and attendants to enable them to bear up and fight a victorious battle. Of the methods there are two which may pass without consideration: the deceptive, which is puerile; the substitution, which is culpable. Cocaine is the drug which has been most used as a substitute for morphia. Erlenmeyer, who has had a very large experience, comes to the following conclusions : (1) that it does not stop the morphia craving; (2) that its effect is very transitory, lasting only from 12 to 25 minutes; (3) that cocaine is a real substitute for morphia, and not an antidote; (4) that it should not be given, as its effect is so temporary and its use dangerous, and very liable to develop a habit which is worse than morphinism. The other methods of demorphinisation, as Charcot calls it, consist in simply withholding the drug in one of three ways: (1) the abrupt or Levinstein's^ method ; (2) the rapid or Erlenmeyer"s method ; and (3) the gradual method. Whether the habit lias been of long or short duration, the withdrawal of the drug is followed by a train of symptoms classically known as abstinenz symptonie. In some cases they are much more severe, and appear with greater rapidity than in others. Some persons endure them quietly with silent fortitude, others with abject and apathetic despair; but most patients exhibit constant restlessness, tramping excitedly up and down the room, wringing their hands, shouting, moaning, bewailing, entreating for the drug which alone can allay their sufferings. 1 British Medical Journal, 1890, vol. i. p. H70. ^ Of the Schbmberg Insane Asylum, Berlin.MORPHINOMANIA AND 448 ALLIED DRUG HABITS These sufferings are of various kinds—a peculiar uneasy sensation in the muscles, a " horrible sensation" as one patient called it, and could give no further description, though he had no mean command of language ; also actual agonis- ing pain in the bones and the neighbourhood of the joints, " as if he had been beaten with sticks or the bones broken." Again, intense pain of a gnawing character in the stomach, "as if rats were gnawing at his stomach," the very ex- pression used by Mr. Addington and Dean Carlisle, as the patient pointed out to me after- wards when he read De Quincey. There is great irritability of the stomach, so that little or no food can be retained. Frequently there is polyuria, causing intense thirst, and com- monly there is profuse diarrhoea, which may indeed become so excessive and exhausting as to threaten or terminate life I have been forced to stop the treatment and give liberal doses of opium to check this dangerous symptom, but it was given in the form of pill, not by hypodermic injection. This stage of excitement is gradually replaced by a' condition of profound exhaus- tion through which the sufferings still con- tinue. Frequently hallucinations and delirium appear, with marked tremor, closely resembling the delirium tremens of alcoholism. Sleep is absolutely banished, and as food cannot be re- tained, the patient is in a few days reduced to extreme prostration, which may end fatally even if he has survived so long. Indeed, Dr. Levinstein, who advocated the abrupt with- drawal method, says "they most frequently become violent and suicidal, and out of a large number only 25 per cent recovered." ^ These symptoms are then so grave and alarming that the abrupt withdrawal method cannot be advocated except in rare instances, where the patient is strong and robust, where the habit has not become confirmed by long use, and the dose has not been excessive. Erlenmeyer recognising the gravity of these ahstinenz symptome advocated the rapid with- drawal method, cutting off the whole supply of morphia by largely diminishing doses in from six to twelve days. This method, however, though preferable to the abrupt method in that the danger is diminished, leaves much to be desired; the abstinenz &ymptome appear, and though temporarily a little allayed at each injection, do not disappear, and the patient's sufferings are really prolonged. Erlenmeyer himself recognises this, and in 1896 wrote that " for three years he had abandoned the method associated with his name."^ The gradual method is then the one which has found most favour with those in a position to form the best judgments. A case of Dr. Braithwaite's will best illustrate this method. The patient was in the habit of taking 40 grains of morphia a 1 Scribncr's Monthly, vol. xx. j). 416. Prog, inidicale, 1st August 1896. day.i The treatment began with 30 grains, and gradual reduction took place till the forty- second day, when none was given. The injections were given only three times daily; he got 30 grains of bromide of soda at night, 3j. Easton's syrup three times in twenty-four hours. One other plan of very gradual withdrawal may in some cases be efficacious. A solution is obtained of the strength used by the patient. Every syringeful withdrawn from the bottle is replaced by an equal quantity of distilled or boiled water. By this means the dose is dim- inished by infinitesimal degrees, till at last the patient is getting none of the drug at all. From what has been said it is obvious that it will be almost an absolute necessity for treat- ment that the patient is removed from his own home, and placed in a special asylum where he can be watched and nursed. It is very excep- tional to find any case of successful home treat- ment of morphinism. It is better that he should not associate with any other patient suffering in the same way, as they will constantly talk of themselves, their doses and pains, and will often plot to carry out some deception to obtain their drug. Besides this, the more the thoughts and conversation run on morphia the harder is it to recover the lost will-power that is so necessary for the strviggle. Their surroundings should be comfortable, bright, and cheerful. Their medical and nursing attendants should be attentive, kind, firm, and sympathetic. A good tactful female nurse is much superior to a male nurse. In a case in which the habit was not of long duration, where the daily dose was only 4 to 5 grains and I adopted the abrupt plan, the patient was controlled and tided over his period of misery, raving, violence, and despair by a young, physically weak, but firm, kindly, and sympathetic female nurse. He was in a private hospital and not under restraint. It is almost certain that with a male nurse, or with any physically strong but less sympathetic attendant, he would have thrown aside all control, left the house, and taken again to his "needle," if he had not done worse by using violence to himself and others. Besides these general considerations of the treatment, there are some particulars that should receive further attention. While dimin- ishing the dose of morphia valuable help may be obtained from atropine ; it arrests the profuse secretions, tending to prevent the occurrence of diarrhoea, and is said to materially allay the ' Treatment extending over forty-one days, usual dose 40 grains per diem :— lst-2nd day, 30 grs. 32nd-36th day, 1 grain. 3rd „ m„ 37th 41st ,, i 4th-6th „ 7i„ 42nd-!'i6th ,, 5 ,, 7th-8th 9th-Kith 4 , 1 injection thrice daily. 17th-23rd 3 30 gr, Xa. Br. each night. 24th-27th 2 3j. Kaston's syrup thrice 28th-31st daily.449 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS abstinenz symptome. It is recommended to begin with grain sulphate of atropine, and to gradually increase the dose, watching closely its effects.! Dr. Gerard Smith recommends sulphate of spartein to lessen the " abstinence storm," and when the pulse shows severe tension, nitro-glycerine or nitrite of amyl gives rapid relief. Dr. Fleming recommends that when insomnia is very protracted tr. of cannabis indica in 3SS. to 3]. doses should be given at bedtime. The bromides are of decided use in the treatment of a case, and may be given in large doses. Dr. Neil Macleod reported two cases in which a well-established habit was cured by bromide poisoning,^ and has since tried it in others and strongly advocates it. The best drug for the insomnia during demorphinisation is trional, given in 40-grain doses to adult males, 30 grains to females. Sleep follows in from three to four hours, lasts on an average seven to eight hours, and is sound, dreamless, and refreshing. Dr. J. B. Mattison of the Brooklyn Home for drug habitues says : ^ " We use it exclusively for the first six or eight nights, decreasing it gradually to half the initial dose. For the insomnia of morphia habitues it is the most valuable sopo- rific we possess." He advises that when pain is present, the trional should be combined with codeine, and thus it gives satisfactory results. Erlenmeyer has given a very important contribution to the treatment of demorphinisa- tion.* He has found, by means of the stomach tube, that where morphia has been taken there is a great excess of HCl in the stomach. This is due, he believes, to the previous narcotic effect of the morphia on the glands and the dulled sensibility of the nerves, as the morphia is excreted by the gastric glands. When, how- ever, the narcotic source is suddenly cut off, the reverse of this condition obtains, there is hypersecretion of the glands, and the nerves become hypersensitive, hence the extreme gastric and nervous symptoms. He therefore keeps the gastric contents neutralised with large draughts of 0'35 per cent solution of bicarbonate of soda, with the result that he has treated thirty cases in this way, with total absence of gastric and nervous symptoms, although the craving for the drug remains. Though it is rare to meet with pregnancy in a morphinomaniac, it does occur, and in such a case great care should be exercised, as any attempt to withdraw the drug is almost sure to be followed by abortion or miscarriage. It should also be remembered, as pointed out by Erlenmeyer, that infants born of mothers ad- dicted to morphia are affected with abstinenz symptome. They are, in fact, congenital mor- 1 B. M. J., 1894, vol. i. Epit. 97. 2 lb., 1897, vol, ii. p. 76. 2 Med. Record, 11th December 1893. * Prog, midicale, 1st August 1896. VOL. VI phine habitues, and as soon as they are sepa- rated at birth from their source of supply, are liable to serious troubles, such as complete insomnia, which in one case lasted for sixty hours. 1 This is quite borne out by the fact that morphia has been found in the blood of the umbilical vessels and foetal placenta of a new- born child whose mother was a morphinist.''^ Again, should a morphinomaniac be seized by any acute or subacute illness, his morphia must be continued, as, if stopped, symptoms may arise which may puzzle the physician and seriously endanger the patient's life. The case is related in the Lancet of a medical man, a morphia habitue, who got pneumonia. Most alarming symptoms of dyspnoea, cyanosis, weak and ir- regular heart-action, and excessive rapidity of pulse, caused the greatest anxiety for the result, and it appeared that a fatal issue was prevented only by a recognition that these were the absti- nenz symptome of a morphinist rather than due to the pneumonia, and by a prompt recourse to the stimulant for which the system was craving. For such an enslaving habit as morphino- mania there should be even a more earnest consideration of prophylactic than of curative measures. Most of the blessings that nature has placed within our reach may, by improper use, be turned into evils. Opium is one of these blessings. The immortal Sydenham is said to have stated that he would not practise his pro- fession if he covild not administer opium. Both its blessing and its evils are undoubtedly mostly exercised through the agency of the medical profession. The former cannot be given up because of the latter, so it becomes imperative to use every means to guard against the danger. Unless in the case of a fatal illness a hypodermic injection of morphia should not be given, if it can be done without, or if sufficient relief can be obtained by any other form of medication. A patient should never be allowed to inject himself. A prescription for morphia should never be given if it is possible to avoid doing so; if it is given, an attempt should be made to prevent its repetition without the prescriber's authority. Legislation might aid us in lessen- ing the evil by more rigorous laws regarding the sale of the drug, e.g. great good might be done if it were made illegal for pharmacists to repeat a prescription for morphia (cocaine or chloral) unless it bore the signature of a medical man with date, ordering it to be so repeated, and the renewal should be countersigned by the pharmacist. With the exception of mentioning that in 1897 a French civil law court established a will made by a morphinomaniac,^ we will not go into the medico-legal aspects of the case. ' Jouet, p. 41. 2 Bureau. Report Universal d'ohstet. et de gijncecoL, 25th August 1895. ^ B. M. J., 1897, vol. ii. p. 496. 29450 MORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS The Cocaine Habit is of more recent growth than that of morphia. The drug was only regularly introduced into medicine between twenty and thirty years ago, but already its victims are numerous, and to be found far and near. In even its legitimate employment it appears to be a more dangerous drug than morphia. The great frequency of very alarming symp- toms, and the large number of deaths recorded after its administration called forth an import- ant " leader " from the British Medical Journal in 1889, pointing out its dangers and how they were manifested, with numerous cases as ex- amples, and information regarding antagonistic drugs. As an enslaving drug it appears to be the most insidious, the most rapid in its conquest, the most demoralising in its elfects, and the most permanent in the marks it leaves upon the few emancipated ones. As to the way in which the habit is acquired, there are two principal methods :— The first and most important, as being the worst, is that in which it is used as a substitute for the morphia habit. The condition of affairs in such a case is, as Erlenmeyer aptly puts it, like the man out of whom a devil having been cast, went and took unto himself seven other devils worse than the first. The picture of the morphinomaniac, lurid and depressing though it is, is but a feeble, hazy outline beside that of the cocaine madman. A physician who had been an opium-eater for several years substituted hypodermic in- jections of cocaine ; he soon got delusions of persecutions, hallucinations of sight and hear- ing, loss of memory, muscular inco-ordination, and aphasia (Philadel. Med. News, January 7, 1894). Another physician substituted cocaine for morphia, and soon became a mental and physical wreck, having to give up his profession and retire to a home where he could be under control, and where he was unable to obtain the drug. Another method is by its abuse as a true medicinal agent, either where in a really painful affection it is repeatedly taken for relief of this condition and then cannot be given up, or where it is taken for some trivial complaint such as sore throat, coryza, etc., and insidiously constitutes itself a necessity. As an example of the former may be given the case of a woman, formerly a nurse, who injected herself with cocaine for sciatica, and continued its use till it became a " habit"; a dose of 16 grains brought about collapse and almost death. The medical man who was then called to see her discovered that she obtained the drug regularly "from an unqualified druggist" {B. M. J., 1889, ii. 750). With respect to the latter cause Dr. Lennox Browne writes a warning against cocaine lozenges, sprays for the nose, and such like; and says: " None but those specially occupied in laryngology and ophthalmology can have an idea of the extent to which excessive indulgence in cocaine is carried." Dr. Zangger of Ziirich relates the case of an English lady who was in the habit of taking about 30 grains of cocaine daily. Two years before she had been given a prescription containing 48 grains of cocaine in 2 ounces, as an application for her gums; she continued its use and swallowed it. As the bottle lasted only thirty-six hours, she took about 30 grains a day. In addition she took 20 to 30 grains of chloral hydrate every night to induce sleep. Her condition was one of extreme nervous prostration, morally and mentally affected, with periods of extreme depression followed by undue brightness and activity, and with now and then hysterical paralysis which lasted for one or two days. He gradually reduced the drug to 9 grains daily, but then she suddenly left his care, and resumed her habit {B. M. J., 1896, ii. 123). Again, a father kept and took a solution of cocaine which he had originally obtained (with- out prescription) for toothache. His daughter, having toothache, went and took a dose of this. She swallowed about 2 drams at 6.30 and died at 7.30. It was a 10 per cent solution; she had taken about 12 grains {B. M. J., 1895, ii. 1162). A druggist commenced his habit by using a 4 per cent solution as a nasal spray, and gradually increased its strength till he used 7 grains at a sitting, and presented all the symptoms of a regular habitu^ {Philadel. Med. News, January 7, 1894). A medical man first used a 4 per cent solution as a nasal spray. He continued it for its stimulating eff"ects, and soon became a victim to the habit {ibid.). The reasons for the danger of these methods of use of the drug are well pointed out by Dr. Lennox Browne. He shows that the drug after long use loses its analgesic effects; that though at first promoting salivary secretion it later causes abnormal dryness of the nose and throat; that though at first it relieves the engorgement of the mucous membrane of the turbinated bones, its prolonged use leads either to anaemia and atrophy, or to increase in the intensity and chronicity of the hypersemia. Perhaps the most insidious method of getting into the " habit" is by means of medicated drinks and sweets, such as wines, cocoas, voice lozenges, and the like. Dr. Milner Fothergill, in the Practitioner's Handbook of Treatment, says : " Coca wines, and other medicated wines, are largely consumed by people who consider themselves total abstainers." What wonder at this when in our leading medical journal the public read its testimonials of these abominations, e.g. : " TheMORPHINOMANIA AND 451 ALLIED DRUG HABITS makers adduce medical testimony as to the value of these coca wines in mental and bodily fatigue and in the treatment of nervous exhaus- tion, with sleeplessness and other affections." This in 1888 (B. M. J., 1888, ii. 1344). Or in 1893 on "Coca champagne," "presented in a form in which it may be used without any misgiving by all invalids, and by those who desire to avail themselves of its tonic and restorative powers. It constitutes a decided and laudable progress in what may be called dietetic therapeutics" {B. M. J., 1893, ii. 1219). They are further recommended as "containing a large proportion of the alkaloid," or " of unusual strength and concentration." This is the worst form of advertising. What wonder that Dr. Snow of Bournemouth feels called upon to write drawing attention to "the in- crease of intemperance amongst invalids from the enormous consumption of coca wines, some of these wines depending for their alkaloid from the leaves, but some with considerable quantities of the hydrochlorate of cocaine in them"; he says, " the patients not only be- come alcoholic, but it induces in them what Erlenmeyer calls ' the third scourge of liumanity,' the cocaine habit. They become nervous, tremulous, sleepless, with loss of appetite, and finally drift into pitiable neurasthenia" {B. M. J., 1897, ii. 1866). The effects of cocaine in varying doses, as very fully investigated by Dr. R. Stockman, is given in his " Report on Cocaine Alkaloids " {B. M. J., 1889, i. 1043). (1) Very small doses excite the sensibility and decrease motility; (2) larger doses cause a loss of muscular co- ordination—a loss in the power of movement from one place to another, while sensibility is entirely retained; (3) still larger doses cause diminution and ultimate disappearance of sensa- tion, the excito-motor power being never lost; (4) in fractional doses characteristic tetanus is caused. Mosso pointed out that it increased the body temperature (Mosso, Gbl. f. die med. Wiss., 1886, 372). Its continued use, as in the case of habit, where the tendency is to regularly increase the dose, brings about with comparative rapidity a state of profound mental and moral degradation. Amongst the first ill-effects are sleeplessness and anorexia, two conditions which in themselves are sufficient to undermine any constitution. To these are soon added headache, muscular inco-ordination, loss of memory, hebe- tude, eneuresis ; emaciation by this time is well marked, and constipation is always present. Soon delusions appear; they are usually those of persecution, and render the victim very un- happy. He shuts himself up in solitude, only to creep abroad in the depth of night or the stillness of the early dawn. Hallucinations are a constant symptom; these are both of sight, hearing, and common sensation, and Magnan first drew attention to a peculiarity of this latter as a pathognomonic symptom of chronic cocaine poisoning. Magnan's sign is an hallucination of feeling, as of foreign bodies—grains of sand, crystal, worms or microbes below the skin. The value of this sign is insisted on by Rybakoff, who has never found it in any other drug habit, nor in any other case of inebriety {3fun. med. Woch., 1896, 1175). Delusions and hallucina- tions are not far removed from downright in- sanity, and according to all observers with the largest experience, Ricord, Kerr, Mattison, these unfortunates, if not saved from themselves by having their liberty taken from them before it is too late, become insane, and when insane the great tendency is towards suicide. Insanity more frequently follows the cocaine habit than any other drug habit. Whatever little chance there is of the mor- phinomaniac breaking himself off his vice, there seems to be none for the victim of cocaine. His only chance is confinement in a home or asylum, and it is questionable if any one who has been addicted to cocaine, after recovery ever regains the mental condition which was his before his introduction to the drug. The treatment requires, more imperatively than for morphia, that the patient be absolutely under control in an institution from which he cannot escape nor get his drug, and where there are plenty of attendants to watch him and pre- vent him from doing himself injury. Decocain- isation should be by the gradual method. A steady reduction in the quantity of the drug taken should be made daily. Any attempt to suddenly withdraw it or very largely reduce the quantity is likely to be followed by alarming symptoms, mental and physical, mania and collapse. The greatest attention and care should be given to obtain sleep and nourishment. He must remain under care and treatment many months before he can be considered well enough to be trusted to take care of himself, and to voluntarily refrain from going back to his drug. Neil Macleod strongly advocated the treat- ment of both cocaine and morphia habits by enormous doses of sodium bromide up to gj. twice a day, producing thereby a profound bro- mide narcosis, from which the patient awakes, probably in violent delirium, but having lost the drug crave. He claims that (1) he can cure a case within three days by this treatment; (2) that there can be no possible deception practised by the patient; (3) the patient is sensible of no suffering; (4) it is not necessary to have any special home or institution for the treatment— the doctor with the aid of a nurse can carry it out at the patient's home; (5) there is no risk of substituting a second drug habit. That the habit is on the increase there is no doubt: this can only be determined by one's own observation, and close scrutiny of theMORPHINOMANIA AND ALLIED DRUG HABITS 452 various medical journals. In 1897 over forty victims of the cocaine habit appeared in the police courts of Chicago within a period of two or three months, and the report says the habit is chiefly induced by the using of popular remedies for colds, etc. This is a serious statement, and shows that legislation is much needed to control the sale of the drug, and particularly its distribution broad- cast in that form which entraps the unwary— namely, as in wines, cocoas, and sweetmeats. Several states in the U.S.A. have recognised this, and in 1899 passed a law prohibiting the sale or giving of cocaine to any person except a duly authorised physician or upon a physician's order. Even in Turkey the Sultan, as long ago as 1892, issued an irade forbidding its use, and that of sulphonal also, throughout his whole empire. Antipyrin is daily becoming more commonly used by the public in the self-treatment of their real or fancied disorders. This is very evident, not only from the observation of medical men in general, but by noting the large number of cases which appear in the journals, of the oc- currence of symptoms of poisoning and of curious rashes, which are reported as arising from this self-treatment. Antipyrin is most frequently taken by females, usually for headache, and its use has not un- frequently degenerated into a " habit," but to nothing like the same extent as morphia or cocaine. Antipyrinomania causes a gradual deteriora- tion of the general health, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, apathy — the patient losing all interest in domestic or other matters, and ap- pearing dazed or half asleep imtil headache and buzzing in the ears causes restlessness, calling for another dose. This, if delayed, brings about great excitement, followed by prostration, which would appear to threaten life if a supply of the drug is not available. Hence they must be treated exactly like a morphinomaniac, that is, placed under control, carefully nursed, and the drug withdrawn very gradually, the prostration, anorexia, insomnia being suitably provided for. Wechselman ^ records several cases of this habit, and notes the frequency of eruptions, chiefly vesicular, aff"ecting most usually the mouth, hands, genitals. Other eruptions have been frequently noticed —scarlatiniform over the whole body, heemor- rhagic on the extremities, dusky erythema, stomatitis. Some of these eruptions are painful. Cuppelletti records a case of the habit in a girl, set. 23, of hysterical temperament. She had been recommended to take the drug two years before for headache, and had continued it steadily, increasing the dose up to 8, grammes daily (about 3xx.). At this time she came under treatment, and was eventually completely cured. 1 Beut. med. IFoch., May 26, 1898. It is probable that the misuse of this drug will now be rarer than it was some years ago, as in 1892 a regulation came into effect pro- hibiting its sale without a medical prescription. Antifbbrin is also responsible for some victims of "habit." Here again women are the chief sufferers. They generally take the drug for headache or neuralgia, and finding perhaps temporary relief continue it, but require in- creasingly large doses, and then find they cannot give it up. Its prolonged use causes a peculiar appear- ance, which attracts attention and gives a clue to the patient's secret. The skin becomes moist and clammy, and a peculiar leaden-blue tint is noticed, especially of the conjunctivse, ears, lips, tongue, fingers, and toes, but it may be general. The blood appears darker than normal, but otherwise shows no important change. The patients complain of languor and general malaise, for which they seek medical advice. The most common source of the drug in these cases has been one of the proprietary medicines. In 1896 an inquest was held on a young woman who died from the effects of "daisy powders for headache." These were found to be composed mainly of antifebrin. Several other cases of chronic poisoning from the same source, and also from " kaputine " powders, which are mainly antifebrin, have been recorded. Paraldehyde habit is by no means unknown, though it is not common. The drug is usually taken at first for insomnia, and the habit is soon acquired. The patient becomes anaemic, weak, anxious, tremulous, and restless, with unsteady gait; the heart becomes feeble, irregular, and inter- mittent ; there is great emaciation, although there always appears to be an abnormally large appetite. The breath smells strongly of the drug. Mental symptoms may appear, including hallucinations of sight and hearing, also various delusions. The case may be mistaken for delirium tremens on account of the tremor, gait, ema- ciation, and condition of the heart; or for diabetes, from the emaciation and enormous appetite. As with the other " habits," the patient must be treated in a home or asylum by gradual withdrawal of the drug, sleep being obtained by sulphonal. Kraft-Ebing mentions the case of a woman who had for a year taken 4 grammes (3X. nearly) daily. Goodman instances a woman who took, in increasing doses, up to 16 or 18 ounces in twenty-four hours. She was a complete wreck, covered with a vesicular eruption, which smelt strongly of paraldehyde. Elkins ^ relates the case of a man, aet. 63, who had been taking paraldehyde for two and a half years for in- somnia; he took up to 16 ounces in a week, 1 M. iled. Journ., July 1893.453 ALLIED DRUG HABITS MORPHINOMANIA AND After three months' treatment in an asylum he was discharged cured. Chlorodyne habit is not uncommon, and it is remarkable how many of its victims become the subject of a coroner's inquest. Though a drug very much used by the public in their self-treatment, especially for the relief of ab- dominal pain, diarrhoea, toothache, and insomnia, it appears to be the last, viz., insomnia, which is responsible for most of the victims of the habit. The condition of these chlorodyne slaves becomes much the same as that of an opium or morphia habitue. At an inquest lately, the friends of the victim said that he would some- times lie senseless for hours after taking a table-spoonful of the drug. At another inquest it came out that the woman drank two or three 2-ounce bottles per week. Their treatment must be carried out on the same lines as that of a morphinomaniac. Eau db Cologne, Salvolatile, and Ether drinking may be called habits, but should be more properly considered with alcoholic intoxi- cants. The first two are not common, and are of necessity almost confined to the upper classes of society. Ether drinking is or was very com- mon in some districts, notably the north of Ireland—two or three rapid, evanescent ether intoxications on a market-day being considered better value than one long whisky debauch. Not long ago a man was arrested in Kensing- ton, and " it transpired that he was addicted to the self-administration of chloroform, an odd kind of mania." He was discharged pending arrangements to admit him to a home. This, however, must be a very rare habit indeed. Drug-habit victims rarely offend against any- body except themselves, and indirectly, their friends. They do not appear to swell the criminal class to any appreciable degree. I have not come across any account of criminal proceedings against such unfortunates. Dr. Revington of the Central Criminal (Lunatic) Asylum of Ireland informs me that he has no such case under his charge, nor does he know of any. To all who have fallen under the enslaving influence of drug-habit we should extend our pity and lend a helping hand, not passing them by "on the other side'' from either loathing, contempt, or self-interest. Morphoea.. See also ScLERODERMiA and Sclerema Neonatorum.—The term is applied to a circumscribed induration of the skin, usually in the form of areas of considerable size, in which the skin has a dead white appear- ance, and feels inelastic and brawny to the touch. The onset of the condition is frequently rapid and apparently causeless. When de- veloped the patches tend to persist, but occasionally disappear. Sometimes it is asso- ciated with slight sensory elevations in the affected areas, this lending support to the view that this is a nerve affection. In other cases sensory changes are slight or absent. The most common site is the upper part of the trunk. The etiology and the pathology of the condition are unknown, and in the absence of exact knowledge the condition is usually regarded as a trophic neurosis. The subject will be further considered under " Sclerodermia," of which Morphcea is really one of the varieties. MorpholOgfy.—In Biology, morphology is the science which deals with the form and structure of plants and animals. It is not customary to make it include microscopic characters {Histology) or the form of fossils {PaloBontology): these are separate studies. The ultimate aim of morphological characters is the construction of a more perfect classification of organised beings which shall more completely and correctly reveal their affinities with each other. Morrhuae Oleum. See Cod-Liver Oil. Morrhuol.—A crystalline substance con- taining phosphorus, iodine, and bromine, found in cod-liver oil. See Cod-Liver Oil. MorsuS DiabOli.— Devil's bite, a fanciful name given to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. See Generation, Female Organs op [Fallopian Tubes, Ostium Abdominale). Mortality.—The death-rate, or, more generally, the quality of proving fatal. See Vital Statistics (Deaths). Morton's Cough.—The name given sometimes to the cough of phthisis which is followed by vomiting. Morton's Fluid.—A fluid consisting of 1 oz. of glycerine, 10 grains of iodine, and 30 grains of potassium iodine; it has been used as an injection in spina bifida. See Brain, Surgery of (Cephalocele, Treatment); Spina Bifida {Treatment by Injection). Morton's Foot or Disease. — Metatarsalgia; a painful affection of the fourth metatarso-phalangeal joint. See Deformities {Metatarsalgia). Mortuaries. — Places in which dead bodies may be placed prior to burial; they are of value in poor parts of towns where, in their absence, the corpse may have to lie in the living rooms of the relatives or be hastily buried. The Public Health Acts of 1875 (for England and Wales) and of 1897 (for Scotland) give rules and regulations for the sanitation of mortuaries. Morula.—The mulberry-like mass (Lat. morum, a mulberry) of cells produced by the454 MORULA subdivision of the ovum following upon impreg- nation {see FcETus and Ovum, Development of, Segmentation of Ovum); also a disease allied to syphilis or button scurvy (see Venereal Disease, Morula). Morvan'S Disease. See also Joints, Diseases op {Associated -with Lesions of the Ner- vous System); Nails, Affections of the ( Whit- lows) ; Raynaud's Disease {Diagnosis); Syringo- myelia {Morvan's Disease).—This affection is really a type of syringomyelia associated with marked trophic disturbances in the form of painless destructive whitlows. There is much about the disease that is still obscure. Whether the condition of the fingers is entirely dependent on the cord lesions, or whether dependent on a coincident neuritis is still unknown. The clini- cal features, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment will be discussed under " Syringomyelia." MoSChuS.—Moschus or musk is the dried preputial secretion of the musk deer {Moschus moschiferus); it has a strong odour, and, given internally, in doses of 5 to 10 grains, it acts as a diffusible stimulant. It has been used in the form of a pill in hysteria and in the convales- cence from such prolonged illnesses as typhoid fever; it is a mixture of albuminoid and fatty matters, and contains a volatile substance giving it the characteristic odour. The synthetical com- pound known as " Artificial Musk " is trinitro- tertiary-butyl-toluene, C6HCH3(N02)3C(CH3)3. Mosquitoes. See Malaria {Parasito- logy) ; Myiasis {Mosquitoes)Stinging Insects ; Yellow Fever {Role of the Mosquito). IVIOSS. See Diet (Vegetable Foods, Lichens); Carrageen {Irish Moss); Iceland Moss; In- valid Feeding {Carrageen Jelly). IVIother-Cell. — The cell from which other cells (daughter cells) are produced. iVIother-Liquor. — The liquid remain- ing after the separation by crystallisation of the substances which had been in solution in it. Mottier's IVIark.—A nsevus. See Elec- trolysis {Angioma); Tumours of the Skin {Ncevi). Moths. See Myiasis {Definition). Motions. SeeFMC'Es; Gastro-intestinal Disorders of Infancy {Diarrhoea); MsLiENA; etc. Motor Aphasia. *S'ee Aphasia {Defini- tion). Motor Areas. See Brain, Physiology OF {Functions of the Cerebral Cortex). Motor Cars and Cycles.—Motor cars and cycles, generally using petrol as fuel, are being more and more used by medical practitioners who have long distances to cover in their daily work; they are especially useful for sudden calls and for obstetric work, and in the absence of many breakdowns requiring skilled repairs, are not excessive in cost. Motor Centres. See Brain, Physio- logy OF. Motor Paralysis. See Paiu^lysis. Motor Points. See Electricity {Uses in Medicine). Moulding'. See Labour, Diagnosis and Mechanism (Vertex Presentation, Moulding; Face Presentation, Moulding; Brow Cases, Moulding). Moulds. See Air, Examination of {Micro- organisms) ; Enzymes {Diastatic, Aspergillus); Micro-Organisms {Moulds). Moule'S System.—A dry method for the disposal of sewage; the use of earth closets. See Sewage and Drainage {Conservancy System). Mountain Ansemia. See Anemia, Pernicious {Introductory) ; Parasites (Unci- naria Duodenalis) ; Tropics, Unclassed Fevers OF {Kala-Azar). Mountain Fever.—A form of fever described by Osier as occurring in the Western States. The disease is unknown in this country. Recent investigations by Woodruff, Raymond, and others, prove that this condition is really typhoid fever, the blood giving the Widal re- action. For that reason it would be well for the use of the term mountain fever to be dis- continued (Osier). Mountain Sickness.—This is a term that has been applied to the series of pheno- mena that are familiar to, and have been re- corded by experienced mountaineers, especially those who climb to very high altitudes. Though termed mountain sickness, it might also be called balloon sickness, since it also presents itself when high elevations are attained during aerial navigation. The symptoms are qiiick pulse, rapid breathing, and a feeling of constric- tion and incapability for exertion. The increased respiration is accompanied by spasmodic gulps, resembling the gasping of fishes when taken out of water. Conway writes that on the summit of Pioneer Peak, 23,000 feet, "we ceased to pant for breath the moment the need for exertion was withdrawn, and a delicious lassitude and forgetfulness of past labour super- vened upon our overwrought frames." All felt weak—ill, like men just lifted from beds of sickness. Intense headache is a constant symp- tom ; so also is palpitation, which is familiar to all climbers, even at lower levels. At slightlyMOUNTAIN SICKNESS 455 higher levels the symptoms are intensified, the more prominent being giddiness, nausea, loss of strength in the limbs, and the escape of blood from the superficial capillaries, e.g. the nose. The last mentioned is indicative of the general engorgement of the venous system that is present in the later stages. Sensations of feverishness have also been described, but no observations with a clinical thermometer have been made to prove this point. Conway made accurate thermometrical observations, and says, " Bruce's temperature and mine were both nor- mal, notwithstanding that we felt plainly discom- fort from the reduced atmospheric pressure." Haemorrhage, such as epistaxis, gum-bleeding, and bloodshot eyes, occurs from rapid diminu- tion of atmospheric pressure, but does not seem to be present in mountaineers under ordinary circumstances. Nausea and vomiting are popularly supposed to form part of the group, but are probably due to other causes, such as fatigue or disordered digestion from unsuitable food. Mountain sickness is felt more in sun than under cloud, and more in a trough where the air feels stagnant than in a wind. The causation of these symptoms has been put down to diminished barometrical pressure, heart failure, indigestion, deprivation of oxygen, fatigue. These factors all seem to act more or less, but the immediate and sufficient cause is deprivation of oxygen. This brings about an involuntary increased frequency of respiration, and to compensate this, the respiration becomes more shallow. As a result the lungs become more contracted, and accommodate less blood, and venous stasis with deficient oxidation ensues. Alterations in tissue metabolism occur, leading to increased haemolysis in the liver, and an altered distribution of the corpuscular elements in the blood. Mou ntai neer's Nystag^m us. See Neuroses, Occupation {Etiology). Mouse. See Jensen's Tumour. Mouth—Diseases and Injuries of ttie Mouth and Jaws.—It is con- venient to describe these in the following sections —the first dealing with the diseases of the lips, cheeks, gums, and floor of mouth, the second treating of injuries and diseases of the jaws. The important subject of oral sepsis will be discussed in the section on teeth. Index op Part I. Diseases of the Lips .... 456 ,, ,, Cheeks . . . 457 „ „ Gums .... 457 „ ,, Floor of Mouth . 458 Index of Part II. Fracture op Upper Jaw . . . 460 Fracture of Lower Jaw . . .461 Treatment . . . . .462 Non-united Fracture .... 463 Inflammatory Diseases and Results— Periostitis, Abscess, and Necrosis . 463 A. Diffuse Periostitis, Phosphorus Poisoning, etc. . . . 464 B. Localised Periostitis . . .465 Dislocation op Lower Jaw . . . 466 Dislocation of Inter-Articular Carti- lage 467 Parasitic Diseases op the Jaw . . 467 Tuberculous Diseases of the Jaw . 468 Syphilitic Affections .... 468 Tumours— Odontomata . . . . .468 Other Simple Tumours . . . 469 Malignant Tumours. . . .469 Operations on the Jaws . . .470 See also Actinomycosis {Distribution of Lesions) ; Brain, Physiology op {Functions of Cerebral Cortex, Motor Centres for Spieech); Bronchi, Bronchitis {Etiology, Mouth Breath- ing) ; Bronchi, Bronchitis in Children {Etiology, Buccal Respiration); Children, Clinical Examination of {Mouth and Throat); Foot and Mouth Disease ; Nursery Hygiene {Care of Mouth and Teeth); Palate {Congenital Malfo7-mations of Mouth); Pharynx ; Physiog- nomy {Mouth); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Alimentary Canal, Mouth); Salivary Glands, Disorders op; ^ywe {Clinical Features, Mouth); Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases op {Digestion, General Etiology); Teeth {Oral Sepsis); Tongue, Tonsils, Diseases of. Diseases of the Mouth In this cavity the organs diff"er so in character and function that it is impossible to give a connected account of its surgical diseases, e.g. the treatment of the teeth requires such special methods that a distinct class of practitioner devote themselves exclusively to this subject, and the reader is referred to the article on " Teeth" for information concerning these organs. The tongue is the seat of numerous patho- logical conditions, both medical and surgical in their bearings, and consequently a special article is necessary for dealing with so extensive a subject. In the case of the palate, both hard and soft, the pathological conditions are not numerous or of very common occurrence ; but a special interest is attached to its congenital malforma- tions, and therefore it is very convenient to deal with the whole subject of palate under a separate article. In addition to these organs certain important glands discharge their contents directly into the mouth, and of these the most important are the salivary glands. These organs are liable to diseases both in the glandular substance and in their ducts, and the whole subject isMOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 456 better dealt with under a special article, where an account of parotid fistula and salivary calculus will be included. Excepting these organs there are remaining only the three boundaries of the mouth: anteriorly the lips, laterally the cheeks, and inferiorly the floor of the mouth and the gums. The botany of the mouth is a large subject comprising an enormous number of microbes and fungi, and it will be dealt with at some length in other places of this work. Microbes and other parasitic diseases of the mouth are especially common amongst children, hence in the article dealing with stomatitis the reader will find ample information of these interesting diseases which for the most part belong to the domain of the physician. In the article on " Teeth " the reader will find information concerning the active part taken by micro-organisms in diseases of these organs; and the curious parasitic disease actinomycosis is described, as far as its presence in the mouth is concerned, in the section dealing with diseases of the jaws (see page 467). Further, a reference to the important part played by micro-organ- isms in certain suppurative diseases of the jaws will be found elsewhere. In addition to microbes and fungi there are at least two very potent factors in producing pathological conditions of the mouth, viz., tobacco and alcohol: the former when inhaled, especially through a pipe; the latter when taken in concentrated form, as in various spirits. As these causes act especially on the tongue, the reader is referred to the article on that organ for full consideration of the effects of these poisons. In considering the special regions of the mouth to which this article is devoted, one is first of all struck with the resisting character of two of its constituents, namely, the lips and the cheeks, especially their mucous surfaces. This is well shown by the way in which lupus vulgaris of the face spreads. It is compara- tively rare to find this disease spreading into the mouth and affecting the buccal mucous membrane, whereas the disease very often spreads along the nose and down the throat, so that lupus of the pharynx is much more common than lupus of the mouth. Again, although the buccal mucous membrane is sub- jected to the irritation of decaying teeth, yet malignant disease commencing in this region is much less common than malignant disease of the tongue or floor of the mouth. Many of the diseases affecting the mucous membrane of the lips and cheeks are fully dealt with in the article on " Tongue," e.g. leuco- plakia, dental ulcers, etc., and the reader is referred to that article for full information on these diseases. It will be convenient, in considering our subject, to divide it into four parts—the lips. the cheeks, the gums, and the floor of the mouth. 1. Diseases op the Lips.—Among the in- flammatory diseases there are a few deserving mention owing to the manner in which they are modified by the peculiar relations of the lips; e.g. a boil may cause a very wide disturbance in the lip owing to the ease with which inflammatory exudation travels in the tissues in this part, producing marked swelling and oedema. In addition, the constant move- ment of the lips, together with a great liability to traumatism, produces secondary phenomena which may completely conceal the primary boil. The lip becomes markedly everted, and the primary lesion may be quite concealed unless a very careful examination be made. In the same way anthrax occurring at the muco- cutaneous margin may become concealed by the secondary inflammatory disturbance. In cancrum oris there may be extensive gangrene of the lips, and the reader is referred to the article on that subject (see " Stomatitis "). There is a certain condition of the lips, sometimes called hypertrophy of the lips, which seems to be due to a chronic inflamma- tion of its lymphatic system. It is said to occur especially in children of the tuberculous tendency. According to some authors, the glandular disease met with in these patients when occurring in the glands draining the lips causes a certain amount of lymphatic obstruc- tion and consequent overgrowth. The exact pathology of this condition, however, is not known. There is a well - recognised disease termed congenital hypertrophy of the lips. This is always present at birth to a slight extent, although it may not develop markedly until some years afterwards. This seems to be due to some chronic disturbance of the lymphatic system of the lips, but its exact pathology is even more obscure than the cases just described. The treatment of these conditions is purely operative. Plastic operations are necessary to reduce the marked hypertrophy. As regards tuberculous diseases, there is nothing of special importance when occurring in the lips. Lupus vulgaris may spread from the face, but is comparatively rare as a primary disease of the lips. Syphilis is met with in the lips in all its stages, but the primary chancre of the lips has a certain special interest from two points of view. One is the fact that it is the most common site for primary syphilis next to the congenital organs ; the other is the fact that the diagnosis is often overlooked until the disease has got a firm hold of the system. Owing to the constant moist- ure and the secondary septic inflammation, the swelling of the lips-becomes very marked, and there is often considerable inflammation in the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The course of treatment requires no special comment.457 MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH Tumours of the lips are not of very common occurrence if we except epithelium of the lower lip. They may be gi'ouped as follows :— (1) Vascular Tumours. — Nsevi of the lips occur rather commonly among young children. They may be simply capillary, limited quite to the surface of the mucous membrane, or they may be cavernous, affecting the lip quite deeply. The latter are of some interest because a con- siderable amount of the lip may require removal. (2) Connective Tissue Tumours.—These con- sist of lipomata, fibromata, myxomata, and sar- comata, and do not differ from similar growths elsewhere. (3) Glandular tumours consist of cysts origin- ating in some of the labial glands; adenomata originating in similar glands, forming solid masses of glandular tissue, and a mixed tumour similar to the well-known parotid tumour con- taining both glandular tissue, myxomatous tissue, and cartilaginous tissue. (4) Epithelioma of the Lips. — This disease nearly always occurs in the lower lip, and as a rule in men. It originates at the muco-cutaneous line, and may occur at any point along the lower lip. It has a special tendency to occur at a spot where the pipe is habitually held ; indeed, this agency is undoubtedly the chief cause. It does occur occasionally in non-smokers, and in women, although in one case described the woman was a smoker. The disease seems, as regards malig- nancy, to stand in an intermediate position be- tween epithelioma of the skin of the face and of the tongue. The disease commences as a small overgrowth of epithelium, and is generally con- sidered by the patient to be a wart, and conse- quently advice is often not sought for until the disease has advanced considerably. After a time the epithelium becomes abraided, and there is a raw surface which, being constantly moist and constantly soiled, shows considerable secondary inflammatory disturbance. As regards treat- ment, complete removal of the growth is indi- cated as soon as its nature is recognised. In the early stages it can be most completely removed by excising a V-shaped piece of lip, keeping well clear of the growth on each side. Quite a large piece of the lip can be removed in this way with scarcely any deformity. In advanced cases a plastic operation may be necessary. Deformities of the Lips.—These fall into two main groups :— (1) Stricture of the Mouth.—This, of course, is a narrowing of the oral orifice, and may be the result of ulceration at the angles of the mouth, and as the result of lupus, syphilis, etc. It may follow marked loss of substance of the lips, as after burns, surgical operations, cancrum oris, etc. Together with the loss of substance the lips may be adherent to the jaws, in which case the inconvenience and deformity are very great. (2) Ectropion of the Lips.—This may be caused by enlargement of the mucous portion of the lip as in congenital hypertrophy, or it may be due to cicatricial contraction of the skin in the neighbourhood of the lip. 2. Diseases op the Cheeks.—There are not many points of special interest in the surgery of the cheeks. All the inflammatory and special diseases met with in the lips may occur in the cheeks. As regards the tumours of the cheeks, there is a special interest attached to lipomata, inasmuch as they may develop in the lobule of fat at the anterior border of the masseter known as the pad of Bichat. A fact not usually known is the presence of small lymphatic glands in the tissues of the cheek generally below a horizontal line drawn through the mouth. One is often found close to the facial artery just over the buccinator muscle. In inflammatory lesions of the cheek the small glands become enlarged and are then quite evident. The author has on several occasions found such swellings, and has proved their lymphatic glandular nature. Epithelioma may occur, either originating in the skin of the cheek or in the mucous membrane. A rare growth met with in the cheek is one originating in the socia parotidis. 3. Diseases of the Gums.—There is a rather rare and curious affection known as hypertrophy of the gums. It occurs in children, generally appearing within the first year of life. The appearance is a very remarkable one. The gums are everywhere gradually hypertrophied, forming projecting masses which may almost completely hide the teeth; at first the masses being the natural colour of the gums, but later on ulceration occurs, and septic changes produce ulceration and gradual destruction of some of the masses. On careful examination it will be found that this condition is associated with an enlargement of the jaws, especially the alveolar processes, and as a rule the patients are mentally very defective. Occasionally there is a hyper- trophy of the gums produced by the mechanical irritation of badly-fitting artificial teeth. The treatment of hypertrophy of the gums consists in a free removal of the soft tissues, together with the portion of alveolus to which they are attached. Unless some of the bone is removed the hypertrophy nearly always reforms. In the case of the hypertrophy from mechanical irrita- tion the badly-fitting teeth must be rectified and the hypertrophied portion excised with a knife. Vascidar growths are sometimes met with in the gums, especially in the region of the incisor teeth. They seem to be composed of cavernous tissue, and are evidently a form of nfevi. They cause considerable trouble because they bleed freely when the tooth-brush is used, and if not removed they may grow to some considerable size, and may form a nasty ulcerating mass. Papilloma of the Gums.—Occasionally ratherMOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 458 fine papillomata are found growing from the gums, especially in the upper jaw. Some of these have afterwards become malignant and develop definitely into an epithelioma. It is important, therefore, to remove a papilloma of the gum as soon as it is recognised. Epulis.—This term requires some explanation. Originally it was applied to any tumour which appeared to grow from the gum; thus it in- cluded an ordinary epulis, a papilloma, a sarcoma of the alveolar process, or an epithelioma. It is obvious that if the term epulis be used in this wide sense considerable confusion must arise in discussing them. It is better, therefore, to restrict the term to the characteristic growth which commences at or near the neck of a tooth. As a matter of fact, the true epvilis is not primarily a growth of the gum, but of the periosteum beneath the gum. They really belong to the group of sarcomata although they need not necessarily have a malignant tendency. The tissue of the gum and its epithelium are simply stretched by the growth from the under- lying periosteum, and therefore the changes in the gum itself are really secondary. The tumour, therefore, is always composed of con- nective tissue. Sometimes the fibrous element predominates so much over the cellular element that they are sometimes looked upon as belong- ing to the fibromata. In many of them there is a development of bone to a greater or lesser extent, which can be found on careful microscopic examination in nearly all cases. Their origin from the periosteum is further shown by the fact that they have a great tendency to recur after removal unless the small portion of the alveolus to which they are attached is taken away as well. Some of these tumours present to the naked eye and microscope the appearances of myeloid sarcoma. In all probability both these forms occur, either originating in the periosteum, when we get the ordinary fibrous or the osteo-sarcomatous epulis, or in the bone itself producing the myeloid growth. While it is most important to recognise the essentially sarcomatous nature of the ordinary epulis, yet we must bear in mind that clinically they present considerable differences from ordinary sarcomata of bone. They undoubtedly possess a very slight degree of malignancy, so that when small they seldom recur after removal. Even when of considerable size they do not tend to recur if the portion of bone to which they are attached is removed at the same time. The typical place for an epulis to form is between two teeth, generally growing from the alveolo- dental periosteum at the neck of the tooth, so that when the tooth is extracted the epulis may come away attached to the neck of the tooth. As the growth increases in size the teeth on each side of it become separated, and later on it may become large enough to almost conceal one or both of the teeth. If one or both of the adjacent teeth have been much destroyed by decay the stumps may become completely con- cealed by the growth, and may even be found embedded in the mass. Later on, secondary changes take place due to mechanical irritation. The epithelium on the surface becomes abraided and an ulcer may form. Septic inflammation may progress and vascular granulation tissue may develop, producing a fungating foul smelling mass. In former years the ordinary fibrous epulis was allowed to reach an enprmous size, completely disfiguring the patient. The treatment is at the present day quite straightforward. Nothing short of a complete removal of the growth is of the slightest use. If the epulis is very small and can be recognised to have its attachment at the neck of the tooth, the growth will often come away in a complete state when the tooth is extracted. In all cases it is necessary to remove the portion of alveolus from which the epulis is actually growing. The best method, therefore, is first of all to extract any tooth touching the growth ; then to cut down to the periosteum around the growth and detach it altogether with the periosteum from the alveolar process; the exposed portion of alveolar process is finally chiselled away. Epithelioma of the Gum.—This nearly always originates in the neighbourhood of a decayed tooth. It does not present any special feature differing from epithelium elsewhere. It is possible to get a septic ulceration of the gums simulating epithelioma, but a few days' careful treatment with antiseptics will soon enable the diagnosis to be made certain. The treatment consists in a free removal of the soft tissues and of the bone to which it is attached. 4. Diseases of the Floor of the Mouth. —Certain inflammatory lesions may involve secondarily the floor of the mouth. There may be a localised inflammation in the supra-hyoid region beneath the deep cervical fascia, causing swelling and oedema in the floor of the mouth. This nearly always terminates in suppuration, and is best opened by an incision through the skin in the middle line between the chin and the hyoid bone. A much more extensive in- flammation resulting in gangrene may occur beneath the deep cervical fascia extending up- wards to the floor of the mouth. It was first described by Ludwig, and therefore is sometimes termed angina Ludovici. The gangrenous cellulitus chiefly destroys tissues in the neck, and is described when dealing with that region. Here it is simply necessary to point out that there may be considerable swelling and oedema in the floor of the mouth at quite an early stage, before extensive mischief in the neck renders the disease quite evident. Of considerable interest are swellings in the floor of the mouth of a cystic nature. These may be classified in three groups :— 1. Dermoid Cysts.—Although congenital in459 MOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH origin these seldom begin to show themselves before the period of adolescence, and may not become evident until old age. Their structure does not seem to diifer from that of dermoid cysts elsewhere. Some of them undoubtedly are formed by a fold of skin or sometimes of mucous membrane between Meckel's cartilage and the inferior maxilla. Some, however, form from a cleft posterior to the inferior maxilla, which is seen in the case of cysts adherent to the hyoid bone. They form a swelling in the supra-hyoid region externally, and in the anterior portion of the mouth internally. They are situated in the median line, and the swell- ing in the mouth may appear to be slightly bilobed owing to the attachments of the tongue to the genial tubercles. The most satisfactory treatment is to remove them by incising the skin in the middle line below the chin and dis- secting them carefully from their surroundings. If very much adherent it may be possible to remove only portion of them. The remainder of the interior must be scraped with a sharp spoon and the surface destroyed with a powerful caustic such as chromic acid. If any small part of the lining membrane is left intact the cyst may reform. 2. Hydatid cysts of the floor of the mouth are very rare and need not detain us. 3. Ranulas are very common swellings in the floor of the mouth. The name is a curious one and its origin is obscure. It has been suggested that the swelling causes a difficulty of speech somewhat resembling the croaking of a frog; another is that when the swelling in the floor of the mouth is large the characteristic appearance of a frog's mouth is simulated. Pathological Anatomy.—At one time the swelling was considered to be due to a dilatation of Wharton's duct owing to some obstruction at its orifice. In the great majority of cases, how- ever, this view can be easily disproved by passing a fine probe along the duct. In all probability no ranula has ever been formed in this way. Another view was that they were caused by a blockage and subsequent distension of certain glands in the floor of the mouth first described by Blandin and by Nuhn. These little glands are situated on each side of the frenum linguse, and from their position might conceivably cause such a swelling when enormously dilated. There are numerous small glands in the floor of the mouth, and no such swelling ever forms in connection with them. At the present day most pathologists admit that a ranula originates in some portion of the salivary glands, usually the sublingual, perhaps occasionally the submaxillary. The exact mode of their formation is, however, obscure. One suggestion is that they originate in abnormal outlying lobules of the sublingual glands, which undergo some curious form of degeneration. In support of the view that ranulas originate in connection with salivary granular tissue, is the fact that in microscopic sections of the wall of the cyst groups of lobules of the salivary type in various stages of degeneration are seen. As a rule the cyst is situated immediately under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, between it and the mylo-hyoid muscle. In some cases, however, the swelling is situated on the other surface of the muscle between it and the deep cervical fascia, hence two varieties of ranula are spoken of—the sublingual or ordinary form and the supra-hyoid ranula. According to some authors the supra-hyoid ranula originates in connection with some portion of the super- ficial part of the submaxillary gland. This, however, is denied by Morestin, who has found small lobules of the sublingual gland projecting through the fibres of the mylo-hyoid muscle. The most recent view, therefore, is that a ranula originates in some part of the sublingual salivary gland, either from the main mass of the gland when the ordinary sublingual ranula is formed, or by superficial prolongations of the gland through the mylo-hyoid muscle when the supra-hyoid or submaxillary ranula is formed. Microscopically, the cyst wall is formed of a thin cellular membrane lined by either a cubical or a stratified epithelium. The contents of the cyst consist of a substance which microscopically rather resembles saliva, although it is denser and less limpid, having rather a viscous con- sistence. Chemically it differs by having a much greater quantity of mucus, the absence of the diastatic ferment and of sulpho-cyanide of potassium. Symptoms.—It forms very gradually, and at first causes no trouble whatever. It usually commences on one side of the middle line, but as soon as it becomes large it spreads over to the opposite side and has a bilobed appearance, being crossed down the centre by the frenum linguae. As it gets larger and larger the swelling becomes more and more symmetrical, until finally it may be impossible to say upon which side it may have originated. The floor of the mouth is stretched over it and presents a greyish-pink or greyish-blue colour. The mucous membrane glides over the swelling. The cyst is not at all tense unless it is squeezed between the fingers. When its size is very great it may form a swelling between the chin and the hyoid bone externally, and in such cases there would be considerable difficulty of mastica- tion and sometimes of respiration. Treatment.—is by no means an easy matter, especially when the cyst is a large one. The best method is to cut away a fairly large piece of the wall of the cyst, taking care to avoid Wharton's duct. The contents are then evacuated and the cyst wall rubbed with some form of caustic. The writer has found that pure chromic acid rubbed over the whole interior of the cyst is generally successful. The cavityMOUTH—DISEASES OF THE MOUTH 460 is lightly plugged with a little strip of gauze or lint. This is changed once or twice daily, and the cavity washed out with a mild antiseptic lotion. Erectile tumours are sometimes met with in the floor of the mouth, and were formerly termed blood ranulas. They are really some form of cavernous ntevi. Occasionally a lipoma is met with in the floor of the mouth, and used to be termed fatty ranula. It would be im- possible to distinguish them from dermoid cysts. Epithelioma originating in the floor of the mouth is sometimes met with. It diff"ers scarcely at all from epithelioma of the tongue. Owing to its proximity to the lower jaw the growth tends to become adherent to the bone earlier than in epithelioma of the tongue. Beyond this fact there is nothing very special in epithelioma in this situation. Injuries and Diseases of the Jaw Fractures—Superior Maxilla Etiology ayid Pathology.—T\\q cause is nearly always a direct blow upon the face in the region of one or both superior maxillae, such as the kick of a horse, a blow with a truncheon, or wounds caused by artillery, especially segment shells. The disrupting force may be indirect, very rarely from above, the frontal bone being driven into the maxillBe; more often a blow on the chin may cause a fracture of the maxillae. A fracture of a portion of the maxilla is common enough; very often the force bears directly on the superior maxilla, as in the extraction of teeth, when the alveolar process may be more or less damaged in the region of the tooth. Fractures of the palatal process, or of the an- terior wall of the maxilla, may be caused by foreign bodies being pushed inwards, e.g. the end of an umbrella or stick, gunshot wounds, etc. A localised fracture may be caused in- directly by blows upon the zygomatic arch or malar bone. A systematic description of most of the frac- tures of the superior maxillae is impossible; no two accidents are exactly alike in their results. There are, however, two well-recognised exten- sive fractures aff'ecting both bones. (1) Transverse fracture, caused by a blow, especially the kick of a horse, striking the maxillae just below the nose and separating them into an upper and lower portion, the line of separation being about half an inch below the malar process laterally, and through the vertical plate of the palate mesially; the ptery- goid processes may be separated and remaining in lower fragment; the lower fragment may then be driven back against the posterior wall of the film. (2) Vertical fracture, in which the two superior maxillae and the two palate bones are separated to the extent of one-third of an inch. (3) Comminuted fractures, from the passage of vehicles over the face, the effect of gunshot wounds, etc., are not uncommon. Complications.—In cases where great violence has been at work the cranial bones may be fractured, and injuries to the brain and its membrane may be present. When the alveolar process is fractured the teeth may often become separated or loosened. Haemorrhage from some branch of the internal maxillary artery or from the main trunk may occur. Secondary haemor- rhage is by no means infrequent after extensive fractures of the upper jaw. Injury to the infra- orbital nerve, with resulting anaesthesia in its area of distribution, and sometimes neiiralgia may occvir. In all cases where the fracture involves parts of the bone covered by gum or mucous membrane of the mouth the danger of septic inflammation must be borne in mind. Symptoms and Diagnosis.—In the majority of cases the signs are very evident, like those of fracture in any other part of the body : crepitus with pain on movement, mobility of a part usually fixed, more or less deformity of the face, haemorrhage from the mouth or nose, and ecchy- moses in the soft tissues near the seat of frac- ture. In certain cases there may be no marked evidence of any fracture. The presence of a fracture may be elicited by careful manipulation and by examining for any tender region. In obscure cases stress should be laid upon haemor- rhage into the mouth and nose. More especially ecchymoses should be looked for in the mucous membrane of the palate, and, after some days, in the conjunctiva. Fractures involving the maxillary sinus may be accompanied by surgical emphysema of the eyelids and cheek. Loss of sensibility in the zone of distribution of the infra-orbital nerve and of the anterior and posterior dental branches should be looked for. The finger should reach well to the site of the pharynx for evidence of the mobility of the pterygoid processes. Later on, secondary symptoms are of importance. Among these are septic infection in cases where the soft parts over the seat of fracture are torn and are exposed to microbic invasion. Septic complications, however, are much rarer in fractures of the upper jaw than those of the mandible. Treatment. — It is most important to re- member that, however comminuted the fracture may be, all the fragments, even those only slightly adherent, should be preserved. It is well recognised that these comminuted fractures nearly always become united. If the fragments be in direct communication with the mouth, antiseptic washes and insufflations of iodoform powder are necessary. The divei-sity of fractures of the superior maxilla being so great, it is impossible to describe the various methods that may be necessary for maintaining the fragments in proper position. In many cases the frag-MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 461 ments are not loose and remain firm in their proper position, so that no apparatus is neces- sary. In fracture of the alveolar process the fragments can be kept in position by some form of inter-dental splint or by some method of wiring the teeth together, as will be described in treating of fractures of the lower jaw. In cases where the anterior wall of the maxilla is fractured and depressed it may be necessary to perforate the antrum through the canine fossa, and to introduce an instrument in order to force the wall outwards. In cases where there is suppuration of the two maxillfe it has been found necessary to vise a steel spring, passing round the back of the head and terminating in front in two pads, which press upon the cheeks and force the maxilla together. Mandible Etiology and Pathology. — As a rule, the fracture is produced by direct violence. Among the many causes are blows received on the jaw whilst fighting, the kick from a horse, or a fall from some height. Very serious fractures, especially comminuted ones, may be caused by gunshot wounds. Localised fractures of the alveolar process are often caused during the extraction of a tooth. Very rarely in a new- born child the lower jaw has been fractured during difficult labour. The fracture is very seldom caused by indirect violence. These are nearly always caused by muscvUar action, such as a severe fit of coughing, etc. The simplest fractures are fissures, commencing in the outer compact layer where the direct violence was applied, and nearly always involving the inner layer. Incomplete fissure fractures may exist but are of no practical importance, excepting perhaps in the region of the inferior dental nerve, which may be injured at the time or may undergo pressure during repair of the fracture. Complete fractures of the mandible occur in several regions of the bone ; about 90 per cent occur in the body, which is more exposed to injury and also less protected by muscles than the ramus. The most common seat of fracture is in the neighbourhood of the canine teeth and mental foramen, this being the weakest part of the bone. A fracture sometimes occurs in the middle line, either exactly at or very near to the symphysis menti. A fracture of the ramus of the lower jaw is unusual, and generally occurs either at the angle, the neck of the condyle, or the coronoid process. Symptoms.—Fractures of the body and of the jaw are easily recognised ; it is when the ramus is fractured that difficulty may be met with in recognising definitely its existence. Deformity.—This is nearly always present when the fracture is in front of the masseter and internal-pterygoid muscles. The larger anterior fragment is displaced downwards, and the smaller posterior fragment outwards, so that it overlaps the anterior fragment. Sometimes the converse exists—the anterior fragment over- laps the posterior. The fracture through the body is nearly always oblique, the anterior larger fragment being fractured at the expense of its internal surface ; and the smaller posterior fragment at the expense of its external surface ; but the converse is sometimes met with. The displacement of the anterior fragment in a downward direction is due to muscular action, chiefly the muscles passing from the lower jaw to the hyoid bone. The posterior fragment is pulled firmly upwards by the temporal masseter and internal pterygoid muscles, so that the teeth are pressed against those of the superior maxilla. The outward displacement of the posterior frag- ment may be in part caused by the action of the temporal and masseter muscles, but it is chiefly due to the direction of the violence causing the fracture. In fractvires of the neck and the condyle the displacement is considerable, as the external pterygoid pulls the condyle inwards and forward, thus causing the rest of the jaw to deviate to the same side, being pulled over by the un- opposed action of the other external pterygoid. When the coronoid process is fractured the dis- placement may be considerable, but as a rule it is only slight owing to the prolongation of the tendon of the temporal muscle on to the body of the lower jaw. Mobility.—The degree of movement that is present depends upon the seat of the fracture. In fractures of the body it is usual to find con- siderable movement, but when the ascending ramus is fractured there is usually but slight mobility. Very marked mobility occurs when there are two fractures of the body—by no means an uncommon accident. Crepitus.—This can nearly always be obtained, even if there is very little mobility. Pain.—This, as a rule, is severe. It is made much worse when the gums are much lacerated or when the inferior dental nerve is injvired. Haemorrhage.—There is generally a certain amount of blood in the mouth caused by the injury to the gums. It is seldom severe. Escape of Saliva.—This is very often present because the proper movements of the jaw, cheeks, etc., cannot be carried out, and so the saliva is not readily swallowed. Complications.—In fractures caused by very severe direct violence there may be wounds of the face which usually heal very well with ordinary treatment. Serious hfemorrhage is very rare, becaiise, as a rule, the inferior dental artery escapes injury. Secondary hsemorrhage is now very seldom met with. The most frequent complication is loosening and disloca- tion of the teeth. It is most important to ascertain that no tooth or part of a tooth lies between the fractured ends, as this is one of the most common causes of non-union ofMOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 462 fractured jaw. As nearly all fractures of the jaw are compound, there is usually present some degree of septic inflammation. Occasionally the septic process is confined to some space and may lead to the formation of an abscess. Where the inflammation is extensive, more or less necrosis of the lower jaw may result. It is very unusual for the inferior dental nerve to be injured; it may be torn, however, at the time of the accident, and occasionally neuralgia may develop some time after the accident owing to pressure exerted by the repairing bone upon the nerve. Where the violence has been very great there may be a dislocation of the lower jaw as well as the fracture. Treatment.—Innumerable methods for treat- ing fractures of the jaw have been described. In all cases, however, there are certain principles of treatment, whatever the accident and situa- tion of the fracture may be, and these principles must be most carefully adhered to. (1) Great care must be taken to reduce the displacement, and special attention must be directed towards restoring the normal position of the teeth. This restoration of the " bite" is most important, and every care should be taken to obtain it. (2) Every effort should be made to get the mouth and its contents as clean as possible. The teeth should be thoroughly cleaned and, if necessary, scaled, so that no trace of tartar should be left, for this is a favourite nidus for decomposition. The tongue should be kept clean by scraping. In order to keep the mouth clean, antiseptic mouth-washes should be fre- quently employed. In cases where there is marked decomposition, insufflation of iodoform powder is the best agent. (3) Absolute rest of the lower jaw is necessary for rapid and accurate union. Whatever method may have been employed to fix the broken ends, it is necessary to forbid the patient to speak or to use the jaw for masticating purposes. In order to feed the patient it is convenient to fix an india-rubber tube on to a feeding cup, and to put the tube into the mouth beyond the last molar tooth, unless there is a gap in the front part of the mouth, where a tooth has been lost, through which the tube can be very conveniently passed. The various methods that have been employed to maintain the broken fragments in their proper position can be classified under four principal methods, viz., bandaging, splints, ligature of teeth, and wiring of the fragments. (1) Bandages. — In simple uncomplicated fractures a four-tailed bandage is generally sufficient to keep the fragments at rest and in apposition. It is made by taking a piece of strong calico or other bandage, one yard in length and four inches in width, with a small slit in the centre for the chin to rest in. Each end of the bandage is cut up to within three inches of the centre of the slit. Having placed the slit over the chin, the two lower portions of the bandage are tied over the vertex, and the two vipper ones well above the occipital pro- tuberance. To prevent slipping they may be tied together. In fractures of the lower jaw union is rapid, and towards the end of the third week slight movement "^ay often be allowed; but no mastication shoii^d be permitted until the beginning of the sixth week. (2) Splints.—A large number of splints have been devised to keep the fragments in proper position. Of the external splints the gutta- percha trough is often employed. The objection to this splint is that it may serve as a reservoir for the decomposing discharges and saliva from the mouth. When employed it must be cleansed and readjusted frequently. It is made by taking a piece of gutta-percha, about three inches broad, and of sufficient length to extend from the angle of the jaw on one side to that on the opposite side, and by bisecting it to within three inches of the centre on each side. By immersion in hot water, so as to make it soft, it is bent into the shape and accurately fitted to the jaw. A hole is cut to receive the chin. It is then lined with boracic lint and kept in position by a four-tailed bandage. There are various forms of external splints which it is not necessary to describe. There are various forms of splints used within the mouth, and among the best of these is the inter-dental wire splint, or some modification of it, devised by Hammond. Although this method is so excel- lent, it is never likely to be largely used by surgeons unless the assistance of a dentist is obtained; because, in order to make a success- ful wire splint, a considerable practical acquaint- ance with mechanical dentistry is necessary. The method may be best described by dividing it into five stages :— Stage 1. The teeth must be thoroughly cleansed of all tartar; any decayed focus cleared out and the cavity temporarily filled. The mouth must be free from mucus and saliva as much as possible and washed out with a suitable lotion. Stage 2. A wax impression is then taken of the teeth with the fragments replaced in their normal position. Stage 3. A plaster-of-Paris cast is made from this wax impression. Stage 4. The piece of iron wire is placed around the row of teeth; at first in front of the row, then bending it round the last molar tooth on each side, and taking it round the back of the row of teeth, and then soldering the two ends of the wire together. Great attention must be paid to bending and hammer- ing the wire so that it fits correctly the line of teeth. Stage 5. The wire frame is now removed from the plaster cast and placed in the mouth.MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 463 It is necessary to make quite sure that the deformity is completely reduced and that the " bite " of the mouth is correct. Several pieces of thin, soft, iron wire are then passed between the teeth and made to surround them. Numerous inter-dental splints have been devised, but for the surgeon none of them are so satisfactory as the one described. Some splints have been devised partly internal and partly external; they do not merit our attention. (3) Ligature of Teeth.—The fragments are fixed together by tying either silk or wire round the teeth on each side of the fracture. This method has two grave objections : one, that the mobility of the fracture is by no means satisfactorily controlled; the other, that the teeth round which the ligature is passed may become loose and the adjacent gum may become inflamed. (4) Wiring of Fragments.—The best method is that described by Thomas of Liverpool. It consists in drilling the fragments below the tooth sockets, and then passing a piece of stout copper wire through the drilled holes and bringing the fragments together by coiling the copper wire upon a special "key" made for the purpose. During the treatment the wire can be tightened from time to time. Non-united Fbacture of the Lower Jaw This is a very unusual condition. Union is often delayed by unusual mobility or by the presence of a tooth between the fragments, but sooner or later union takes place as soon as these antagonistic agents are removed. Again, union by fibrous tissue and the formation of a false joint is a very rare occurrence. The treat- ment of this condition differs in no respect from that employed in the treatment of ununited fractures generally. Inflammatory Disease of the Jaws and ITS Results Periostitis, Abscess, and Necrosis.—One of the subjects that has led to as much difference of opinion in the past as any in the domain of surgery is the question whether suppurative inflammation of the lower jaw originates in the bone itself or in its periosteum, or whether the trouble always commences in a decayed tooth or its alveolar dental periosteum, and that the main structure of the jaw is infected from this local site. There seems no reason to doubt that acute infective osteo-myelitis or periostitis, which may occur in almost any bone during childhood or adolescence, may occur also in the lower jaw. This, however, is very rarely met. Many surgeons used to maintain that certain children were very prone to a form of suppura- tive osteo-myelitis and periostitis which often led to loss of the teeth and necrosis of the whole or part of the jaws, especially the man- dible. Inasmuch as the children specially affected with this disease presented tuberculous lesions of various kinds, it was termed scrofu- lous osteo-myelitis. Further, it was stated that in the acute specific diseases of childhood, and in typhoid and typhus fever, a suppurative osteo-myelitis could originate by a specific poison itself lodging in the structures of the jaws. This same theory was held regarding inflammation following the inhalation of phos- phorus fumes and following the taking of mercury as a drug. It is now practically established that in all these cases the general disease is only a pre- disposing cause which weakens the resistance of the gingival mucous membrane or of the teeth, so that ordinary suppurative organisms more readily gain access, and therefore the true cause of all these suppurative inflammations is a local infection by some pyogenic organism present in the mouth. A short consideration of the anatomical re- lations of the teeth and jaws shows us how intimate and important is the relationship between them. Between each tooth and the jaw, lining the tooth socket, is a layer of tissue, frequently termed alveolar or alveolo-dental periosteum. It is in this periosteum, situated between the teeth and the lower law, that the large majority of inflammatory affections of the jaw commence. According to Miller of Berlin, many facts favour the supposition that a con- siderable number of pathogenic micro-organisms may thrive in the juices of the mouth without showing any difference from the common parasites of the oral cavity so long as the mucous mem- brane remains intact. If, however, the soft tissues have been wounded, as in extraction, or if the resistance of the mucous membrane has become impaired, these organisms may gain a point of entrance, and thus become able to manifest their special actions. The severe injuries of the soft tissues of the bone caused by difficult extractions, as well as the open wound left by every extraction, furnish a convenient point of entrance for bacteria. Whoever has examined an unclean mouth, with its broken-down teeth, inflamed gums, thick smeary deposits with which some of the teeth are wholly covered, will not wonder that inflammation, suppuration, necrosis, or even pysemia may follow upon operations in the mouth, and where the typical pyogenic micro-organisms, such as the staphylo- coccus aureus, etc., are present, we must expect severe suppurative inflammation and formation of abscesses. It is well recognised that the mucous membrane of the mouth may, under certain conditions, become less resistent to the influence of germs, and this may be brought about by mechanical, chemical, or thermal conditions, local or general, so that the nature of the tissues is so changed that a suitable nidus for the development of certain microbes is formed. In some cases the alveolar464 DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND periosteum of all the teeth is affected simultane- ously, whereas in other cases the periosteum of only one or two teeth may be affected; hence we may divide the cases into two classes, the diffused and the localised. A. Diffused Inflammation of the Alveolar Periosteum.—Etiology and Pathology.—(1) One of the most common causes of this diffused periostitis was at one time very often met with in persons exposed to the fumes of phosphorus, the disease being popularly called " phossy jaw." From time to time outbreaks of this disease occur in some of the match manufactories. As this is perhaps the most typical kind of diffused periostitis of the jaw, it would be taken as a type in discussing the various aspects of the disease. A condition very similar to this may be brought about by the administration of mercury in doses large enough to produce a salivation, and other metallic poisons have produced similar efiects. (2) Chronic suppuration may occur at the necks of the teeth, leading to progressive necrosis of the alveolar margin. In this way the fang of the tooth is exposed, and finally the tooth falls out. This condition is termed "pyorrhoea alveolaris" or " Riggs' disease." For a full description of this condition the reader is referred to the article on "Teeth." (3) As we have mentioned above, we some- times see a diffused periostitis, generally of the lower jaw, often leading to extensive necrosis in children of weak vitality. This used to be called strumous periostitis. It is undoubtedly of septic origin. (4) The severe suppurative inflammation that is frequently associated with the eruption of an overcrowded or misplaced wisdom tooth is probably due to some pathogenic organism reaching the site of the tooth. Unless treated early, the inflammation may spread widely and lead to extensive necrosis of the bone. As a typical example of diffused suppurative peri- ostitis of the lower jaw, we will consider the subject of so-called phosphorus necrosis or phossy jaiv. The term necrosis is used because extensive death of the bone is a leading feature. It must be understood, however, that this is only a result of a diffused suppurative inflammation. Etiology and Pathology of "Phossy Jaw."— According to Stockman, in addition to the various stages of caries of the tooth, the con- dition of the alveolar margin is one of cario- necrosis, with chronic ostitis and periostitis, differing in no respect from the same lesion as seen in other bones from various causes. It has long been held that this cario-necrosis is due to aseptic action of phosphorus fumes on the bone, this being supposed to cause a peculiar and special kind of inflammation. If one con- siders, however, the whole circumstances and the clinical histories of individual cases, we must definitely conclude that the process is due to the activity of micro-organisms. Phosphorus fumes consist of phosphorus anhydride to a large extent, with some phosphoric anhydride together with some hydrogen peroxide in small traces. It is practically impossible for any of these bodies to produce the extensive mischief so characteristic of phossy jaw. Stockman, from cultivations of pus from several cases, found staphylococcus, albus, streptococcus, and numerous other organisms. He is of opinion that none of these could reasonably be regarded as the cause of cario-necrosis, and inasmuch as he found tubercle bacilli in every case he considers this as amounting to alnjost proof positive that the disease is of tuberctilous origin. He considered that the acid^^mes penetrated to the bone directly through the aperture left by a decayed or extracted tooth, that they erode the bone, weaken its nutrition and resist- ing power, and so make it a suitable nidus for the growth of tubercle bacilli. The bacilli having once started growing, gradually spread according to the ordinary rules of tuber- culous infection. The majority of observers, however, consider that the trouble is due to pyogenic organisms, and that the tubercle bacilli are only there by accident, being taken in with the food. In the very excellent report to the Secretary of State for the Home Department drawn up by Dr. George Cunningham, the opinions of Dr. Stewart upon the subject of phosphorus poisoning are mentioned, and the correctness of his views is confirmed by Cunningham's experience. Although Stewart admits the fact that a caries of the tooth is the commonest point of origin of phosphorus necrosis, yet he points out that the disease may commence in cases where there are no decayed teeth, but in which there are masses of tartar around the tooth at the junction with the gums. As the tartar swarms with organisms it is obvious that the subjacent disintegrating gum may become the point of entrance of the pyogenic germs. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is an un- easy sensation in the teeth, which gradually becomes worse until pressure upon them elicits marked pain, sometimes of an excruciating char- acter. This pain is often worse at night, as many other pains are liable to be. The inflam- matory trouble develops, and the gums, swollen and oedematous, and the adjacent tissue of the cheek become involved, so that there may be swelling of the face with more or less redness of the skin. On examining the teeth it is found that these are somewhat raised in their sockets and more or less loose. On examining this stage of the trouble there is very marked salivation, and owing to the pain preventing the patient moving the muscles of the tongue and mouth effectively, there may be dribbling of saliva. By very careful and thorough treat-DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND 465 ment at this stage the disease may subside. As a rule, however, matters are neglected; the in- flammation spreads to the general periosteum of a greater or less extent of the jaw. In this way the nutrition of the bone suffers, and finally more or less of it becomes necrosed. The pus may burrow towards the cheek or down into the neck; and if neglected, numerous sin- uses may form, and these persist until the dead bone is removed. Treatment.—Stockman states that as regards prophylaxis there is absolutely no risk of inflam- mation as long as the bone remains protected by gum, and even when carious teeth are present the entrance of the organisms can be prevented by careful stopping. Efficient ven- tilation of the workshops will prevent the acid fumes arising from the phosphorus and make them less active in injuring exposed bone. As- suming that the aff'ection is due to the tubercle bacillus, the matter is then quite apart from the factories and cannot be controlled at present either by State regulations or workshop rules. It is acquired, as other tuberculous affections are acquired, by certain persons and not by others ; and, owing to the wide distribu- tion of the organism, persons with exposed bone, eroded by acid fumes, are very apt to become infected. Every attention must be paid to the cleaning and scaling of the teeth, so that no tartar becomes deposited on them; all decayed teeth must be cleaned out and stopped, and great attention paid to the cleanliness of the mouth generally. In the early stages of the disease it is advisable to get the mouth as clean as possible by using antiseptic mouth- washes every half-hour or so. Local complica- tions round the neck of the tooth, such as tincture of aconite or of pyrethrum, seem to lessen the inflammatory reaction. The gums must be carefully watched for the formation of any collection of pus under them, and as soon as this is detected it must be incised and washed out. The effort of the surgeon must be directed especially to prevent the accumulation of pus in any part of the mouth. In this way any extensive necrosis can be readily prevented. When necrosis has once formed, the region must be kept as clean as possible, and as soon as the dead fragment is separated from the living it must be removed. B. Localised Suppurative Periostitis.—Under this heading we have the very common trouble known as alveolar abscess. Owing to the way in which the pus may burrow in neglected cases, the alveolar abscess has considerable interest, and therefore must be considered in this article as well as in the article on "Diseases of the Teeth." Etiology and Pathology/. — This probably always originates by the introduction of micro- organisms through some decayed focus in the tooth or some abrasion of the gum at the neck VOL. VI of the tooth. It is stated that in some cases an abscess appears to rise without any morbid condition of the teeth or gum; but this is probably a mistake, as a very careful search would probably lead to the discovery of the point of entrance. It must be remembered that slight abrasion of the gum at the neck of the tooth which may have allowed the organ- isms to enter may have healed up subsequently, and so concealed the point of entrance. Ac- cording to Tomes, as the disease progresses the periosteum becomes detached from the cemen- tum, and the point of suppuration usually commences at and extends from the foramen in the root of the tooth, and as the pus forms in greater and greater amount, the fang gradually loses its vitality and the pus gradually causes dilatation of the socket. As soon as the tension exercised by the presence of the pus reaches a certain degree the pus finds its way to the surface. One of the most common ways is for the pus to find its way up the side of the tooth, between it and the socket, reaching the surface at the edge of the gum either on the inner or outer side of the tooth, thus forming the ordi- nary gum-boil. As a rule, the pus pierces the gum within the mouth. In the case of the upper incisor teeth, however, the pus tends to burrow between the periosteum of the hard palate and the bone, thus forming a palatal abscess. When the upper incisor teeth are decayed the abscess may point within the nostrils. An abscess in connection with the molar teeth of the upper jaw may point on the surface of the face above the reflection of the buccal mucous membrane. In other cases the pus may burst into the antrum of High- more. In the case of the lower jaw the pus may find its way on to the face near the lower margin of the jaw ; and, in the case of the molar teeth, the pus may burrow down into the neck and have to be opened even below the cavicle. Symptoms.—At first there is a dull sensation familiar to most people scarcely worthy of the name of pain. At this early stage the uneasi- ness or pain may be removed by biting upon the teeth. As the trouble progresses there is a dull aching pain and the tooth is slightly raised from its socket. The pain soon becomes more and more acute and throbbing in character, and the constitutional symptoms become very severe, accompanied by a high temperature. In addi- tion to the swelling of the gum in the region of the tooth the oedema may spread to the soft tissues of the face and cause marked swelling there. There is very often sudden relief to the pain when the pus finds its way out of the tooth socket, because it is then collecting at consider- ably lower pressure. It is this sudden improve- ment in the pain that may lead the medical attendant to think that the abscess has subsided, whereas the pus may be forming in large466 MOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW quantities under the gum or in the tissues of the face. Complications.—Although alveolar abscess, even if untreated, may subside spontaneously as soon as the pus reaches the surface, yet occasion- ally very grave symptoms may follow, such as pygemia. A spreading cellulitis may develop, spreading rapidly in the tissues of the face and neck. In some cases the pus spreads widely under the gum and separates a large part of the lower jaw, causing considerable necrosis. In- flammation of the lymphatic glands under the jaw is practically always present, but only occasionally does suppuration occur in them. Treatment.—The early treatment belongs to the domain of the dentist. Before any large amount of inflammatory exudation has formed we may be able to evacuate it by removing the septic focus and reaching the inflamed area. For this treat- ment the reader is referred to the article on " Teeth." As soon as the pus leaves the tooth socket it can be recognised readily by the way in which the gum is raised up and stretched. As soon as this is recognised an incision should be made with a scalpel right through the swollen gum. As a rule, by careful treatment a tooth may be saved if it is worth saving. Many good teeth are sacrificed by the dentist or surgeon not having the requisite knowledge to know whether teeth can be saved or not. Necrosis.—It must be clearly understood that necrosis does not in itself constitute a dis- ease, but is the result of a previous suppurative inflammation of the bone or its periosteum. For certain reasons the lower jaw is more commonly the seat of necrosis than the upper jaw. It is common to speak of various forms of necrosis. The differences are really due to the cause of the suppuration rather than to any difference in the final result. They may be classed as follows :— (1) Necrosis of the alveolar process due to suppuration in the apex of the tooth and the alveolar dental periosteum. This may spread to the main structure of the lower jaw and cause more or less extensive necrosis. In other words, the necrosis is a result of alveolar abscess. (4) The suppuration that may result from an overcrowded or misplaced wisdom tooth may lead to extensive necrosis, as already men- tioned. (3) Necrosis following diffused suppurative periostitis, of which the chief example is, as we have seen, phosphorus necrosis. Under this heading should be placed the necrosis following the administration of mercury and other drugs. Under this heading should also be placed the diffused suppurative periostitis occurring in the course of certain septic fevers. (4) Necrosis may follow any extensive injury to the jaw, especially comminuted fractures. Necrosis may occur owing to some laceration of the tissues of the mouth spreading to the periosteum and bone, as in the case of cancrum oris or any malignant growths. (5) Necrosis may occur as the result of syphilis, as we shall see later. (6) Necrosis may also occur as a result of tubercle, apart from any action tubercle may have in the causation of phosphorus necrosis. The treatment of the various forms of necrosis differs in no way from that of necrosis of bone generally, and need not detain us here. Dislocation of the Lotver Jaw.—In the great majority of cases the immediate cause has been muscular action alone, such as yawning, vomit- ing, etc. It may be due to direct violence, such as a blow or a kick of a horsg^-'^ force acting from within the mouth may also produce dis- location, e.g. the introduction of an apple or billiard ball into the mouth, extraction of teeth has been known to cause dislocation of the jaw. Bilateral dislocation of the jaw is more common than unilateral. The exact mechanism of dislo- cation has been much discussed. As the jaw is depressed the condyle glides forwards on to the articular eminence, and as soon as it is in this position a comparatively small force is sufficient to drive the condyle forwards over the eminence and thus produces a dislocation. As a rule the ligaments of the joint are not torn, but appar- ently in severe cases both the synovial membrane and the external ligament may be torn. As soon as the condyles are dislocated, the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles contract and draw the jaw forwards and upwards. It is the action of these muscles, in all probability, that causes fixation of the coronoid process beneath the malar bone. It has been maintained, how- ever, that the coronoid process actually catches against the malar bone. It is quite possible that in certain cases where the malar bone is well developed and the coronoid process is large that this may occur. Symptoms.—In a recent dislocation the de- formity is, as a rule, very evident. The mouth is open and the jaw is fixed. Speech and swallowing are much interfered with because the lips cannot be properly approximated, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. On ex- amining the neighbourhood of the joint a de- pression will be seen and felt immediately in front of the ear, and in front of this the dis- placed condyle may be seen and felt. The coronoid process can also be felt just below the malar bone. In unilateral dislocation there is inclination of the chin away from the dislocated side. On comparing the joint on the two sides the dislocated one can be readily distinguished. Long-standing Dislocations. — At one time this seemed to have been a fairly common occur- rence. The patient has not consulted a doctor at the time, and gradually the jaw has obtained a certain degree of mobility so that the lips can be closed, and in this way both speech and swallowing may be little if at aU impaired.MOUTH—INJURIES AND 467 DISEASES OF THE JAW The alteration in the patient's appearance would not be noticeable to a doctor who had not seen the patient before. Recurring Dislocation.—Sometimes there is a great tendency for the dislocation to recur. It may be quite frequently an act of yawning, etc., which may produce it. Dislocation of Inter-Articular Fibro-Cartilage. —A case of this kind has been described where there is dribbling of saliva and enlargement of the left submaxillary gland. This latter may have been due to injury of the corda tympani nerve. Treatment. — The simplest method is for an assistant to grasp the head of the patient firmly against his chest, while the surgeon, with his thumbs projecting, presses them as far back as possible upon the lower molar teeth, at the same time grasping the body of the jaw with his fingers. Firm pressure is then exerted by the thumbs in a direction downwards and back- wards so as to free the condyles from the articular eminence, and as soon as this is done the chin is raised by the fingers. Various apparatus have been described for forcing the jaw downwards. Long - standing Dislocations. — These are usually fairly easily reduced within the first two months. The longest period that has elapsed, and in which successful reduction has been obtained, is about ten months. If mani- pulation fails to reduce the dislocation, the condyle should be cut down upon and replaced with as little cutting of ligaments or muscle as possible. Recurring Dislocation.—The patient should "be cautioned against opening the mouth at all widely. If yawning cannot be prevented the chin should be well supported during the act. If dislocation occurs very frequently and easily an elastic bandage might be fitted to support the chin. In other cases the jaw may be kept absolutely immobile for a long period of time. Operative treatment has been considered neces- sary ; the joint has been cut down upon and the fibro-cartilage stitched to the external liga- ment near its attachment to the bone. Parasitic Diseases op the Jaw The fungus mycosis aspergilla has been found in the antrum of Highmore, and a curious form of distoma (fasciola hepatica) has been found in the pus escaping from an extensive alveolar abscess. These are quite surgical curiosities. A very important parasitic disease is actinomy- cosis. This disease usually occurs primarily in the jaws—the mandible more frequently than the maxilla. It may, however, occur primarily in almost any part of the body. It is a disease very commonly met with among cattle. The active agent is a fungus termed actinomyces, sometimes called the ray-fungus, from its characteristic appearance under the microscope. The fungus is taken in with the food, and may lodge in any part of the alimentary or respira- tory tracts. The jaws, however, are the struc- tures which seem especially prone to this disease, and the explanation is owing to the intimate relation that exists between the teeth and the jaws. During mastication the fungus is driven into some decaying focus in a tooth. Here it remains undisturbed, and gradually penetrates into the bone. Symptoms.—The earliest symptom is very often tenderness, and sometimes severe pain localised to one or more of the teeth, and on examination the affected teeth are found to be carious. This pain is generally attributed to ordinary decay of teeth—indeed, it would be impossible at that stage to ascertain whether actinomyces is present or not. Within a few weeks a swelling forms: in the case of the lower jaw it is usually situated in the region of the angle ; when the upper jaw is affected the swelling is usually noticed at some part of the cheek. On manipulation it is found that the swelling is firmly fixed to the jaw, and it may be either soft or hard. As the tumour increases in size the skin over it becomes red, rather tense, and finally fluctuations can be detected. If neglected, this swelling will ulti- mately burst, and a turbid, serous liquid escapes which contains in suspension small yellow granules. These are very characteristic in appearance, and consist of masses of fungus. The septic process that accompanies the growth of this fungus tends to become widely diffused, and various fistulse form communicating one with the other, and opening on the surface by numerous apertures sometimes quite crateriform in appearance. On probing the sinuses bone can readily be felt. The submaxillary lym- phatic glands become enlarged, and may sup- purate so that sinuses of various extent may be present in the neck. If the inflammation pro- gresses towards the ramus of the jaw it may interfere with the movements, and a condition known as "closure of the jaw" is produced. In slow-forming cases there is little or no temperature, but if the associated septic process is marked a somewhat hectic temperature may be present. Owing to the chronic discharge of pus we may have the usual changes associated with this condition. As a rule the course of the disease is chronic, lasting one or two years; it may, however, be very rapid and terminate fatally within three months. Prognosis.—Early eradication of the disease is the only hope for the patient. If the disease has been allowed to progress extensively the patient becomes emaciated, and is very liable to fatal complications, especially of the respira- tory organs. Secondary foci of the disease may appear in various organs, especially the lungs. The prognosis appears to be very serious when the upper jaw is aff'ected. In rare cases the disease has been cured by merely incising andMOUTH—INJURIES AND 468 DISEASES OF THE JAW draining the tumour. Cases have been re- ported where surgical treatment has cured the trouble. If secondary foci have formed in the viscera the prognosis is probably hopeless. Diagnosis. — If the characteristic yellow granules can be found the diagnosis is at once made certain. Sometimes, however, these may not be found even after a most careful search. In such cases the diagnosis may be most difficult. Similar sinuses of a chronic nature may be caused by syphilis or tubercle, or some form of necrosis of the jaw, which may simulate very closely the appearance caused by actino- mycosis. It is important to ascertain the occu- pation because so many of the persons affected have been associated with cattle in their daily work. Treatment.—Complete removal of the fungus should be attempted. A very free opening of the sinuses and scraping away of all broken-down tissue is imperative. Diseased portions of skin should be freely removed with a knife; indeed, the more extensive and energetic the treatment with the knife the more favourable the prog- nosis. The injection of germicides, such as per- chloride of mercury, should only be undertaken when the patient refuses operative interference. Tuberculous Disease op the Jaw Tuberculous disease of the gums may occur. It is nearly always found when the patient has active pulmonary tubercle as well. There seems little doubt that the expectorated bacilli effected a lodgment in some abrasion of the gum. If the bone is affected it is due to a spread of the disease from-the gum, which is the primary seat of infection. Tuberculous disease occvirring primarily in the jaws is met with, but is, comparatively speaking, rare. It is found sometimes on the surface of the superior maxilla in the region of the malar process of the maxilla. In the case of the mandible it usually occurs along the lower border of the body and in the region of the chin. The symptoms and course of the disease differ in no way from tubercle in other parts of the body. Syphilitic Affections op the Jaw Primary chancres of the gums have been met with ; the most probable cause of infection is by the forceps iised by a dentist in extracting a tooth. As regards the tertiary manifestations of syphilis gummata, both localised and diffused may occur in both jaws. The disease may lead to various thickenings and exostosis especially in the lower jaw. The manifestations of syphilis here do not differ from those in other parts of the body. Tumours op the Jaw It is a difficult question to decide upon the best method of classifying tumours of the jaws. Quite a simple method, apparently, is to divide them into simple and malignant. Experience teaches, however, that no sharp line of demar- cation can be drawn between these two classes of tumour. A growth, apparently simple in nature, may suddenly and rapidly develop malignant properties. Of course it will be argued that this growth was from the first malignant, but that the infective tendency was held in check for a long time until certain conditions unknown to us became favourable for its growth. This argument, of course, shows how difficult such a classification becomes. There is one large group of tumours having one point in common, namely, that they appar- ently originate in some-part "of a tooth during its development. These tumours are termed odontomata. At first the term was restricted to certain hard tumours composed of enamel or dentine or cementum, or of a combination in varying proportions of any of these three elements. Subsequent researches, however, have shown that numerous other tumours, especially of a cystic nature, originate during the development of a tooth, and therefore a wider definition of odontoma is advisable. According to Bland Sutton, odontoma are neoplasms composed of dental tissue (namely dentine and cementum) in varying proportions and different degrees of development arising from tooth-germs or teeth still in the process of growth. In order to thoroughly appreciate the nature of this large group of odontomata the reader must bear in mind the chief points in the development of a tooth. About the seventh week of intra-uterine life the epithelium of the gum begins to grow rather rapidly along the alveolar border, and from the Malpighian layer masses of epithelium grow down into the sub- jacent tissue. This downgrowth of epithelium is termed the common enamel germ. As develop- ment proceeds, the changes in the common enamel germ become localised to certain spots where the teeth are eventually developed. At these spots the epithelium grows down in the form of flask-shaped bodies termed the special enamel germs, and these two are connected by a narrow band of epithelial cells forming the neck of the enamel germ or funicular band. Coincident with these changes in the epithelium we find that the imderlying connective tissue becomes divided into twenty papillte. Each papilla projects upwards and forms a dent in each enamel germ. From these papillse are developed the pulp, the dentine, and the cementum, and hence it is termed the dental papilla. The soft connective tissue round the papilla and the enamel germ forms a kind of capsule, and a whole structure, namely, the enamel organ, the dental papilla, and the fibrous capsule, is termed a dental follicle. While the development of the milk teeth is progressing we find that the first rudiments ofMOUTH—INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE JAW 469 some of the permanent teeth appear, namely, those of the permanent teeth which actually replace the milk teeth. About the sixteenth week a small downgrowth of epithelium grows from the funicular band above described, and develops into the enamel organ of the corre- sponding permanent teeth. From the funicvilar band of these permanent teeth another down- growth of epithelium may occur. In the human subject this rarely forms a tooth, but represents the rudimentary third dentition. It will be seen from this description that some of the epithelium cells that grow down do not persist, nor form any definite structure. It used to be assumed that these cells simply atrophied; it seems, however, that they persist, and may be found in the adult jaw in three groups. There are various tumours which seem to be formed from some portion or other of the dental follicle or from the apparently useless masses of epi- thelium cells above described. They may be classified as follows :— 1. Follicular Odontomes.—Under this heading three kinds of cysts may be described. (a) Dental cysts, which contain neither a tooth nor the rudiment of a tooth. They are met with more frequently in the upper than in the lower jaw, and generally in connection with the incisor or canine teeth. They may grow to a large size, and produce more or less absorption of the outer wall of the maxilla. (b) Dentigerous cysts, which contain one or more teeth in their interior or in their wall. The teeth may be well formed or may be quite rudi- mentary, consisting of irregular masses of bone and enamel. (c) Multilocular Cysts.—There is considerable difference of opinion upon the nature of these cysts, but in all probability they originate in connection with some part of the dental follicle. 2. Epithelial Odontomes. — These probably originate from some of the bands of epithelial cells above described. According to Bland Sutton they occur most frequently about the twentieth year. They are encapsuled at first; when the overlying mucous membrane ulcerates the capsule is destroyed, and they may then resemble epithelioma. If left, they erode and destroy the surrounding bone. 3. Radicular Odontomes.—This term is ap- plied by Bland Sutton to odontomes which arise after the crown of the tooth has been completed, and while the roots are in the process of forma- tion. As the crown of the tooth is completed in development the resulting odontome is devoid of any enamel, and consists either of dentine alone, or of cementum, or of a combination of both. 4. Composite Odontomes.—Bland Sutton de- fines these as consisting of hard tooth tumours which bear little or no resemblance in shape to teeth, but consist of a conglomeration of enamel, dentine, and cementum. Tumours of the Jaws.—Both the upper and lower jaws are the seats of tumours of the ordinary kinds such as are met with in other parts of the skeleton. They form naturally into two growths, the simple and the malignant. The description will apply equally well to whichever jaw is affected. There are three well-recognised non-malignant tumours in the jaws. 1. Fibroma.—This closely resembles fibromata occurring elsewhere. It nearly always occurs in the region of the alveolus. When arising from the alveolus adjacent to the antrum it may project into that cavity and appear to be grow- ing in it. These fibromata are considered by Bland Sutton to be of the same origin as the odontomes. Some people consider that they may result from chronic inflammation around the apex of a tooth. They are easily removed. 2. Fnchond?-oma of the upper jaw is rare. Cartilaginous tumours are much more common, originating in other bones of the face. If allowed to progress they may reach an enormous size. They easily shell out and do not recur. 3. Osteoma.—Various bony outgrowths of the jaws occur. It has already been mentioned that they may occur as a result of syphilis. It may be convenient here to mention the remarkable disease known as leontiasis ossea. This disease causes an extraordinary thickening of the bones of the skull and the jaws, to which it is generally confined. It is especially prone to aff'ect the superior maxillae, but it also affects the lower jaw. All parts of the bone are thick and dense, and outgrowths from the bone pro- ject into and obliterate all the air-spaces of the skull. The antrum is usually obliterated, the nasal fossae are blocked up, the orbits are en- croached upon, and the eyeballs displaced. The disease appears during childhood and pro- gresses very slowly; the first indication of deformity is usually in the protuberant masses from the maxillse forming a swelling in each cheek. It is suggested that it may be some form of rickets. No curative treatment is known. Any protuberance may be chiselled off if thought advisable. (See also " Leontiasis Ossea," vol. v. p. 381.) We may here mention the fact that acromegaly is a disease which specially affects the superior maxilla as well as other bones of the body. For a full description of the disease, see vol. i. Malignant Tumours.—-T!\vo malignant growths occur in the jaws, sarcoma and carcinoma, the former being much more common. Sarcoma.—This is the only malignant growth which commences in the substance of the jaw itself. It seems to originate in two ways—either in the bone itself, when it is termed central sarcoma, or in the periosteum, when it is termed peripheral or periosteal sarcoma. The central growths are often myeloid sarcoma. Carcinoma.—In the upper jaw carcinoma470 DISEASES OF THE JAW MOUTH—INJURIES AND appears in two forms, one which probably always begins in the gum or palate, and is composed of squamous epithelium. This was considered when dealing with diseases of the gums (see p. 458). The other variety is columnar epithelioma, which always begins in the antrum (see Diseases of Antrum, article "Nose"). Operations on the Jaws.—Operations upon the jaws are nearly always performed for the removal of growths, and therefore many of the operations can scarcely be of a formal character, but the surgeon must plan his incisions accord- ing to the exact relations of the growth. In this place, therefore, it will be necessary simply to describe the formal operation for excision of the jaws. Excision of the Upper Jmv. — The method usually practised is Ferguson's modification of Liston's method. An incision is made through the centre of the upper lip to the columella, then transversely at the posterior margin of the anterior nares, and round the alse of the nose vip to a point just below the inner can thus, then outwards along the lower margin of the orbit to just below the outer canthus. This flap is reflected outwards, all the soft tissues down to the bone being removed. With a suitable saw the malar bone is sawn through in a line with the spheno-maxillary fissure, then the nasal process of the superior maxilla is sawn through, and finally the saw is placed through the nostril and the hard palate and alveolus are divided. Just before this last saw-cut is made the central incisor of the maxilla to be removed is extracted, and the mucous membrane over the hard palate is divided with a knife along the line where the saw is to emerge. As soon as the saw-ciits have been made, the soft palate is separated from the hard palate by means of a scalpel, and this transverse incision is carried outwards around the tuberosity of the maxilla. The bone is then seized in a pair of lion forceps and forcibly pulled downwards and forwards, any soft tissue being divided that is necessary. When possible the orbital plate should be left, so that the eyeball does not suffer to any extent. When the orbital plate is removed there is great tendency for the eyeball to drop, and for the patient to get diplopia and other troubles. In order to prevent deformity many methods have of recent years been devised, and these will be considered after removal of the lower jaw has been described. Excision of Lower Jaw. — A skin incision is made from the point just to one side of the middle line running along the lower border of the jaw as far as its angle, and then upwards along the posterior border of the ramus to a point just below the lobule of the ear. The tissues are cut right down to the bone, and the soft tissues are separated, first on the outer side right up to the reflection of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and then on the inner side dividing the mylo-hyoid, internal pterygoid, etc. The central incisor of that side is then removed, and the mucous membrane of the moiith divided after all hsemorrhage has been stopped. The jaw is then held firmly in a pair of lion forceps, and is cut through between the central and lateral incisor teeth, so as to leave the attachments of the tongue. As soon as the jaw is divided it is pulled forcibly downwards, and the knife is carefully turned upwards to divide the attachment of the temporal muscle from the coronoid process^ -^e external lateral ligament is then divided and the jaw forcibly pulled downwards, so that the external ptery- goid muscle is torn through and not cut. Provided the jaw is pulled directly downwards and not twisted there is no danger of wounding the internal maxillary artery, but any attempt to cut the external pterygoid with a knife would involve wounding of that vessel. Further, by twisting the jaw at this stage the internal maxillary artery may slip over the condyle and be torn as the jaw is pulled away. Some surgeons prefer to divide the coronoid process with a saw and then to remove the small piece of bone afterwards. Immediate Prosthesis.—After removal of the jaws there is of necessity a considerable amount of deformity, especially in the case of the lower jaw. In the latter case also the remaining portion of jaw becomes pulled out of its proper position, and so mastication is rendered im- possible. Of recent years attempts have been made to do away with this great reproach against operations on the jaws. For the advance of our knowledge in this direction we are chiefly indebted to certain French dentists, especially MM. Preterre, Claud Martin, and Michaels. The principle of the method adopted by Preterre and Claud Martin is to insert a mechanical contriv- ance into the mouth directly after the jaw is removed, so that the scar tissue which forms as the wound heals is prevented from dragging the remaining portions of the jaw out of their proper position. When the wound has sufficiently healed this temporary structure is removed, and in its place a permanent apparatus bearing teeth is inserted. There are thus two stages in this method: the immediate or temporary prosthesis, and the secondary or permanent prosthesis. The temporary apparatus employed by Claud Martin is extremely ingenious and re- quires a high degree of mechanical dental ex- perience. In his hands it has given excellent results; but the method is too complicated and costly for general use, and in this coimtry but little if any work has been done in this direction. Michaels has attempted to attain the object with one apparatus which is designed to remain in position and to become surrounded by the healing tissues. Broadly speaking, it consists of a metal support which is fixed as much asMOUTH—INJURIES AND 471 DISEASES OF THE JAW possible to bone. It is usually made of gold, and becoming surrounded by granulation tissue, it remains buried in the deep part of the wound. In the case of the lower jaw various modifications of this method have been tried. For instance, in order to fill in a gap where a tumour had been removed from the body of the jaw, leaving an interval of about two and a half inches, Stanley Boyd fixed a piece of knitting-needle between the two fragments, and this became embedded and kept the two remaining portions of the jaw in their proper position. The writer has tried Michaels' method in the case of the upper jaw without success, but has been suc- cessful in the case of the lower jaw, although a part of the apparatus came away in each case. The position of the fragments remained perfect. Diseases of the Temporo-maxillary Joint.— Acute Arthritis.—These cases fall naturally into two groups :— 1. Non-suppurative arthritis caused by rheu- matism, injury, and gonorrhcBa. There is swell- ing and pain in the region of the joint, and usually an irritating pain in the temple or ear. There is difficulty or impossibility of opening the mouth. It may last from one to three weeks, and sometimes terminates in partial or complete ankylosis. 2. Suppurative Arthritis.—This nearly always occurs during the course of some specific febrile disease such as scarlet fever. Some cases, how- ever, are secondary to suppuration in the middle ear. As soon as the natiire of the disease is recognised an incision should be made on the outer side of the joint and the pus evacuated. It is very liable to be followed by ankylosis. Chronic Arthritis. — Like osteo-arthritis of other joints this is prone to occur in advanced life, although it is not one of the joints that is commonly affected. The inter-articular fibro- cartilage is gradually worn away. The ordinary changes take place in the bony parts of the joint, and finally there may be almost complete ankylosis. A not uncommon symptom of this disease is a partial dislocation which only occurs when the mouth is widely opened. It is termed " subluxation " and looked upon as a disease in itself. It seems, however, to be undoubtedly a symptom of a certain stage of osteo-arthritis. Tuberculous Z>isease.—This is very rare in the temporo-maxillary joint, and only a few cases are recorded. Its treatment differs in no respect from tubercle of other joints. Treatment.—The treatment of all forms of disease of the temporo-maxillary joint consists chiefly in obtaining complete rest during the acute and painful stage. In the non-suppurative diseases, massage of the muscles and manipula- tion of the joints should be practised as soon as convenient in order to prevent ankylosis. In the suppurative cases, after the pus has been evacuated, a similar line of treatment should be adopted. Closure of the Jaw.—By this term is meant a condition in which the mandible cannot be completely depressed, so that the mouth is only partially if at all opened. There is every degree between immobility and almost complete mo- bility. The classes fall into two groups :— 1. Spasmodic or Temporary Closure of the Jaiv.—The most common cause is some inflam- mation of the lower jaw, such as mumps, in- flammation of lymphatic glands, etc. The trouble may be in the jaw itself, especially in cases of impeded eruption of the wisdom teeth. It has also been met with as a symptom of some disease affecting the nervous system, such as tetanus. It is sometimes met with as a symptom of hysteria. As soon as the cause is removed the trouble disappears. 2. Permanent Closure of the Jaw.—This falls into two main groups: those resulting from diseases of the joint, and those caused by cica- tricial bands within the mouth. In the case of ankylosis of the joint various operations have been devised after all other attempts at obtain- ing movement have failed. The most successful operation is to remove the condyle, or both condyles if the disease is bilateral. In cases where cicatrices in the mouth are the cause of the trouble, division of the constricting bands should be tried, but this method of treatment often fails as it is impossible to prevent the formation of fresh scars. In such cases Esmarch's operation is sometimes performed: its principle is to form a false joint in front of the cicatrix. Successful operations of this nature have been performed. Movable Kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections op (^Movable and Floating Kidney). Movable Liver. See Liver, Diseases OF {Hepatoptosis). Movable Spleen. See Spleen, Surgery of {Movable Spleen). Movements. See Massage ; Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle, Nerve); Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Foetal Movements). Moxa.—Originally a cone or cylinder made from the down of the leaves of Artemisia moxa; one end of the cone is placed against the skin and the other end lighted, and so an eschar of the skin is produced. Artificial moxas are made of cotton, of the pith of some shrubs, etc. soaked in potassium nitrate solution, and these are placed against the skin in a porte-moxa and set fire to. Mozambique Ulcer. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Tropical Phagedmna). MuciC Acid.—An acid, isomeric with saccharic acid (CgHjoOg), obtained by the oxidation of gum or of lactose.MUCIGEN 472 Mucig'eila — A substance contained in mucus-producing epithelial cells. Mucila.g^ines.—Solutions of gum used in Pharmacy for suspending insoluble sub- stances. Two officinal mucilagines are found in the British Pharmacopoeia, viz., the Mucilago AcacioB and the Mucilago TragacantJue. There is a considerable quantity of mucilage or gum in the root of Althea officinalis, in lin- seed (Linum usitatissimum), in Bael Fruit, in Squill, etc. Mucin.—A glyco-proteid or proteid linked with a sugar-like substance, found in the epithelium of the mouth, intestine, etc. ; it is white and amorphous when free from water but swells up and forms a glairy mass when water is added, and in the presence of alkalies it forms a viscous solution ; it yields sugar when boiled with an acid. See Physiology, Tissues (Mucin-secreting Epithelium); Physiology, Food AND Digestion {^Modified Froteids); F^ces {Physical and Chemical Examination); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Myxcedema, Chemical Fatho- logy). Mucinobla.St.—The mast cell, so called because of the way in which it reacts towards selective stains for mucin. See Mast Cells. MucinOg'en.—The substance from which mucin is formed, and which precedes it in de- velopment. Mucinuria,.—The presence of mucin in the urine. Mucocele.—An accumulation of mucus and tears in the lachrymal sac. See Eye, Clinical Examination of {Eyelids, Obstruc- tion of Nasal Duct); Lacrimal Apparatus, Diseases of {Diseases of Lacrimal Sac, Mucocele or Hydrops). Mucoid Degreneration. — A de- generative process in connective and epithelial tissues whereby they are changed into gelatin- ous material; it is closely allied to colloid de- generation. The mucoid or gelatinous material produced may contain either mucin or pseudo- mucin. The degeneration is seen in catarrh of mucous membranes, in myxoedema, in connec- tive tissues, and in several neoplasms {e.g. colloid cancer and adeno-sarcoma). Mucoids.-—-Substances differing from mucin in solubility and in their precipitating property; they are known as colloid, pseudo- mucin, chondromucoid, etc. MuCOpuS.—A mixture of mucus and pus. Mucor. See Micro-Organisms {Hypho- mycetes or Moulds); Lungs, Parasitic Affec- tions {Aspergillosis and Allied Conditions). MuCOUSMem bran es. See also Gen- eration, Female Organs of {Tubes, Uterus, etc., Mucous Membrane of); Menstruation {Changes in Mucosa); Physiology, Food and Digestion {Structtire of Alimentary Canal) ; Skin Graft- ing AND Allied Procedures {Transplantation of Mucous Membrane); Syphilis.—When we consider the wide diversity in the positions and functions of the different mucous membranes in the body, it is not surprising to find that their diseases occupy a very prominent place in general medicine. The affections of the different mucous tracts are discussed under their appropriate headings. The present note is one bearing on the morbid conditions in general. There is probably no subject in medicine which illustrates so well the great advances and progress made in medical science within the last decade or more, this being de- pendent on the great development of the science of bacteriology. A few years ago we classified the affections of the mucous tracts in some such way as the following—injuries, hyper- semia and anaemia, inflammation, ulceration, gangrene, etc., and had a very inadequate idea of the close relationship these may have to each other and to their common causal agents. Our knowledge on these points has advanced much within recent years, but is still far from complete. A reference to such articles as the " Bronchi," "Intestine," "Nose," "Urethra," and "Vulva" in other parts of this work illustrate where we stand in this matter. It will be noticed that in each of these sections the writer first lays stress on the bacteria which are normally present, and then passes to the consideration of the conditions under which they, or other bacteria, exercise a pathogenic effect. But it is just on this point that our knowledge is yet extremely limited. Take the bacillus coil, for example. It is present in the alimentary tract under perfectly normal conditions. No harm, possibly some good, results from its presence. But see the tremendous importance of that microbe in one of its numerous forms in relation to many of the most serious and fatal suppura- tive affections in the abdomen and elsewhere. Many interesting and important problems are here raised. What, for instance, is the deter- mining factor in the absorption of that bacillus or its toxins from the digestive tract? Does it depend on the existence of a breach of continuity in the lining membrane of the bowel, or does it depend on some defect in the local secretion, as a result of which the bacillus finds itself in a more favourable nidus for active development ? In many instances both of these conditions are doubtless present, but a third important one calls for consideration. This has reference to the question of general relative immunity to the influence of the bacillus. In other words, has the long-continued presence of that microbe asMUCOUS MEMBRANES 473 a saprophyte been attended by alterations in the body fluids and tissues of a nature enabling them to withstand the toxic action of the bacillus 1 (See also " Immunity.") These points are men- tioned merely by way of example, and it is unnecessary to amplify them to any extent. These are the important questions that confront the practitioner in cases of bronchitis, cystitis, and the like, and their due appreciation directs to a more rational and successful treatment. It is hardly necessaiy to refer in detail to the various morbid appearances in these disorders. The important part to remember is that we are dealing with the local reaction to a special irritant, and the nature and severity of the changes in the mucous, submucous, and other coats will depend on the individual power of reaction. In some cases the resulting changes will be more of a hypertrophic, and in others of an atrophic nature. Not infrequently more than one etiological factor has to be considered. Mucous Patches. See Syphilis (Ac- quired, Secondary Sig7is, Mucous Membranes); Larynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis); Palate [Diseases, Syphilis, Secondary); Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases {Syphilis). Mucous R£lles. See Lungs, Diseases OF {Emphysema, etc.). MucrOa—A point; e.g. mucrocordis, the apex of the heart; mucrosterni, the ensiform cartilage. Mucus. See Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Symptoms); Mucous Membranes ; Urine, Pathological Changes in {Mucus-like Substances in Urine). Mucla,r. See Calotropis. Miillerian Ducts. See Embryology; Generation, Female Organs {Arrested Develop- ments) ; Uterus, Malformations of {Develop- ment of Genito-urinary Organs). Muller'S Fluid.—A hardening fluid for microscopical work; it contains bichromate of potash and sodium sulphate in water. Muller'S Method.— A method of testing whether the foetal head can pass through the brim of the pelvis before labour begins. Muller'S Muscle. See Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Anatomy). M ij 11 e r'S R i n g.—An annular prominence seen sometimes on the wall of the lower part of the body of the uterus in pregnancy and labour; it possibly indicates the os internum uteri. Mugfuet.—Thrush or parasitic stomatitis. See Stomatitis {Parasitic). Mulberry Calculus. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Calculus). Mulder's Test. — The indigo-carmine test for glucose, also the xanthoproteic reaction test for proteids. Mules' Operation. See Sympathetic Ophthalmitis {Etiology); also Eyeball, Injuries OF {Treatment). Multi-.—In compound words multi- has the meaning of many; e.g. multilobular (with many lobes), multinuclear (with many nuclei), multipolar (with several poles or processes, as in multipolar nerve cells), multifid (with many fasciculi, as the 7>iusculus multifidus spince). Multig'ravida.—A woman who has been more than once pregnant. MultilOCUlar. — Possessing several spaces, cavities, or loculi, e.g. a multilocular cystic ovarian tumour. See Ovaries, Diseases OF {Common Ovarian Cyst). Multipara.—A woman who has had more than one confinement, or, less often, a woman who has borne twins or triplets (the better word in this latter sense is pluripara); a woman pregnant for the second time may be called a secundipara, for the third time a tertipara, for the fourth time a quartipara, etc. See Preg- nancy, Diagnosis {Diagnosis of Primiparity and Multiparity). M U It i pie.—Many or manifold; e.g. multiple fractures {see Fractures, Classification), multi- ple gangrene {see Gangrene, Varieties), multiple pregnancy {see Labour in Multiple Pregnancy ; Pregnancy, Multiple), and multiple sclerosis {see Paralysis). Mum m ification. — The post-mortem change in which the tissues become dry and hard ; in the case of antenatal death mummi- fication of the foetus is an aseptic change result- ing often in the flattened foetus {foetus com- pressus). Mumps, or Epidemic Parotitis. Pathology ...... 474 Symptoms ...... 474 Complications— (1) Local 475 (2) etastatic Glandular Affections . 4:75 (3) Nervous Symptoms . . . 475 (4) Affections of the Ear and Eye . 476 (5) General 476 Diagnosis . . . .476 Prognosis ...... 476 Treatment ...... 476 See also Brain, Inflammations {Acute En- cephalitis, Etiology); Diphtheria {Diagnosis); Disinfection (Quarantine); Infection (Preven- tion) ; Scrotum and Tes?'icle, Diseases (Orchitis, Etiology).MUMPS, OR EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS Epidemic parotitis, or, to use the popular and better term. Mumps, is a specific infectious disease which must be distinguished from the " metastatic " parotitis occurring as a sequel to many abdominal affections. Mumps is endemic in most large towns ; at times it assumes an epidemic form, and local outbreaks in schools and similar institutions are very frequent. It seems to be more common in this hemisphere than in America. Emmet Holt refers to it as a not very common disease, and says that general epidemics are rare, while other American writers state that a locality may remain free from it for twenty or thirty years. The disease is most frequently met with between the ages of four and fourteen years, but adolescents and adults are also liable to it. The extremes of life, how- ever, are spared, and infants and the aged but seldom suffer. Mimips is extremely contagious, and there is no doubt that the infection may be conveyed, without personal contact with a case, through the intermediary of a third person or by fomites. Epidemics are most common in cold and damp weather, and in the spring and autumn, perhaps because the climatic conditions then prevalent tend to prevent due ventilation of dwelling-houses. Epidemics not infrequently follow o\itbreaks of measles. Boys are some- what more liable to be infected than girls, and it is said that mouth-breathers are peculiarly liable to the disease. The incubation period is very variable ; it may be as little as three days, but more commonly lies between fourteen and twenty-five days, the average being perhaps seventeen to twenty-one days. The medical officers to school associations recommend twenty- four days' quarantine, dating from the first ex- posure to infection. One attack of mumps con- fers a very complete immunity, second attacks being almost unknown; relapses are rare, but may occur. Mumps is a mild disorder, and the mortality is almost nil, though in some epidemics complications are more common than in others. The disease seems to be infectious during the latter part, if not the whole, of the incubation period, and the infectiousness is greatest just before the parotid swelling de- velops—that is, before a diagnosis can be made. It persists for about three or four weeks from the onset of the symptoms, or until ten or twelve days after all signs of parotid enlargement have disappeared. Pathology.—While it is, of course, certain that mumps is due to a specific germ, no organ- ism has yet been proved to be the cause of the disease. Pasteur found a bacterium in the blood of patients suffering from mimips, and Bordas and others have described a bacillus parotidis in the blood, saliva, and urine. With more recent and precise methods there is now a concensus of opinion that the disease is due to a diplococcus possessing definite cultural peculiarities, but since the organism has never been successfully inoculated into animals it cannot be regarded as more than the probable infective agent. Netter, Laveran, Cabrin, Mecray, and Walsh have all observed this dip- lococcus in the blood and in the secretion of the inflamed glands, while they have failed to obtain it in healthy individuals. It grows in pairs or in sets of four, or sometimes as a zooglea. Cabrin and Laveran obtained it in 67 out of 72 cases from the exudation drawn from the gland by a hypodermic needle. It stains with the ordinary aniline dyes, and is decolorised by Gram's method. It grows slowly on agar, more quickly on blood-serum, giving rise to circular whitish colonies; it liquefies gelatine in twelve to fourteen days, and turns litmus milk pink on the third day. The inflammation of the parotid is chiefly interstitial, spreading from the duct and in- volving the periglandular tissue as well as the gland itself. In the testicle the atrophy results from a parenchymatous rather than an inter- stitial inflammation; the tubules only are affected, the basement membrane becoming thickened, and the epithelium atrophied. Symptoms. — In the vast majority of cases occurring in childhood the disease is a very mild one, and gives rise to little discomfort; most of the severe cases occur in adults. Most commonly little is noticed before the parotid swelling appears, but prodromal symptoms may occur. The temperature rises a degree or two about twenty-four hours before the onset of parotitis, and with the initial fever the patient may complain of headache and discomfort. Oc- casionally there is considerable prostration and delirium ; convulsions, even, have been recorded. Attention is first directed to the true nature of the malady by pain and stiffness, with slight tender- ness, referred to the angle of the jaw below the ear, most commonly, I think, on the left side. Very soon a swelling can be detected, which goes on until the whole parotid is involved. The enlargement of the gland is considerable, and has a doughy, elastic feel, the skin over it being somewhat tense, but remaining pale, or at most showing a faint blush of red. The outline of the gland is not usually distinct, and one gets the impression that there is a good deal of exudation into the surrounding tissues. The gland on the opposite side becomes similarly affected about twenty-four or thirty-six hours later, and the disease is at its height by the third or fourth day. At this time the appear- ance of a patient suffering from mumps is quite characteristic: the face looks unduly broad, especially at its lower part, and the somewhat conical shape of the head and neck, when there is much swelling of the neighbouring parts— particularly when the submaxillary and sub- lingual glands are also affected—gives to the sufferer a slightly ridiculous aspect. When the parotitis is fully developed considerable dis-475 MUMPS, OR EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS comfort is experienced. There is usually a good deal of pain radiating towards the ear; the mouth cannot be opened more than half an inch or so, and chewing, and even swallow- ing and speaking, are rendered difficult. The head is held stiffly, on account of the pain caused by movements of the neck, and there is general tenderness over the parotid and other salivary glands. As a rule, however, we find that the gland first affected has begun to subside before its neighbour has reached its maximum, and the swelling gradually diminishes, and disappears in from a week to a fortnight of its onset. In most cases there is little constitutional disturbance, the temperature being 99° or 100°; at times it reaches 102° or 103°, but almost always falls rather abruptly to normal a day or two after the parotitis shows itself. There is sometimes slight desquamation of the skin over the affected glands after the swelling subsides. While the above is a general outline of the course of an ordinary case of mumps, there is such variability in its symptoms, and its possible complications are so numerous, that we must look at them in a little detail. In almost all cases both parotids are affected within a very short interval of time—indeed, this is the sign on which we rely when the diagnosis is doubt- ful—but sometimes the inflammation remains limited to one side, and sometimes the second parotid is not involved until several days or weeks have elapsed. Again, the submaxillary and sublingual glands do not always become inflamed, while, on the other hand, they alone may be the seats of infection, or they may be enlarged only after the parotid swelling has subsided. There is seldom any actual com- plaint of interference with the function of the glands, but in a good many cases the secretion of saliva is diminished, and sometimes dryness of the mouth is a distressing symptom. Occasionally the saliva remains normal in quantity and tends to collect in the mouth, while hypersecretion, with salivation to the extent of eight or ten ounces in a day, has been recorded. There is a certain amount of pharyn- gitis and tonsillitis, but it is rarely possible to get the mouth open sufficiently to see the swelling and oedema of the buccal mucous membrane. Stomatitis may also occur. There is not infrequently some swelling of the cervical lymphatic glands. The parotitis almost invari- ably subsides completely, bvit the enlargement may become chronic and remain for months; this, however, like suppuration, is very rare. Complications.—Severe and complicated cases of mumps occur almost exclusively in persons above twelve, and many of them have been recorded in adults. The following are some— the list does not claim to be exhaustive, since new names are constantly being added to it— of the sequelae of the disease. (1) Local Affections.—Suppuration is very rare, while it is common in secondary parotitis. Gangrene of the parotid has been observed in two fatal cases, and abscess of the cervical lymphatics may also occur. Cellulitis of the floor of the mouth and oedema glottidis have been reported. All these must be regarded as due to an accidental infection. In this category we ought, strictly speaking, to place otitis media and some cases of facial paralysis, but these will be more conveniently referred to later. (2) Metastatic Inflammations of other Glands, especially those connected with reproduction.— It is difficult to account for the comparative frequency with which inflammation of the parotid gland is associated with abdominal disease (and in this connection it must be remembered that the testicle is an abdominal organ). We see such an association not only in mumps where such conditions occur second- arily to parotitis, but also conversely when we have a secondary parotitis arising in the course of typhoid fever, gastric ulcer, gastric cancer, appendicitis, after laparotomy, etc. The most frequent and important complication of mumps is orchitis. This occurs most commonly in adolescents, and the body of the testicle, not the epididymis, is affected. Orchitis may develop about the third or fourth week from the onset of the disease ; it runs an acute course of about a week, and terminates in resolution or atrophy, suppuration being uncommon. Wasting, however, is not infrequently rapid, and the organ may diminish to the size of a bean in a few weeks. There is occasionally some effusion into the tunica vaginalis, urethritis, oedema of the scrotum, and enlarge- ment of the inguinal glands. The left testicle is said to be most frequently affected. When orchitis develops there is always a recriidescence of the constitutional disturbance, with fever, etc. In some cases these general symptoms are severe, and prostration, high fever, and delirium may precede or accompany the orchitis, while in other cases a slow pulse aud subnormal temperature have been observed. In addition, signs of intracranial mischief may develop, and some of the nervous sequelse to be described may mask the orchitis for a time. In rare cases the inflammation of the testicle may precede the parotitis. In the female, ovaritis and salpingitis, oedema of the vulva, mastitis, or enlargement of the inguinal glands may occur, and while orchitis is seen only in adolescents or young adults, these affections may be seen in quite young female children. Acute pancreatitis has recently been described. During his convalescence from mumps a lad of ten developed acute abdominal symptoms, and as these subsided a hard mass could be felt in the region of the pancreas. (3) Nervous Symptoms. — Apart from the delirium, etc., due to toxsemia, various complica-476 MUMPS, OK EPIDEMIC PAROTITIS tions affecting the nervous system may arise. Meningitis has been recorded in a fair number of instances, either with or apart from orchitis. Recovery is almost invariable, but may be slow, and is sometimes attended by aphasia or agraphia, hemiplegia or monoplegia, ataxia, etc. Acute mania and other forms of insanity have been reported, and so has general peripheral neuritis. Facial paralysis may develop during the course of the parotitis, when we may reason- ably conclude that it is due to a spread of the inflammation to the sheath of the seventh nerve ; but it has been seen to arise when the glandular affection was very slight, and also beginning a week or two after all inflammation had subsided. (4) Affections of the Ear and Eye.—Otitis media from direct spread of the inflammation, or by an accidental infection passing along the Eustachian tube, is a rarer and less important complication of mumps than nerve deafness. That total loss of hearing may follow mumps is well known to aurists, and considerable attention has been paid to it by them. Politzer states that sudden incurable nerve deafness following mumps is not uncommon, and that there is neither vertigo nor fever, the lesion being either in the nucleus of the eighth pair, or possibly in the labyrinth. He has seen it precede as well as follow the disease. Most authorities, how- ever, regard it as due to exudation or htemor- rhage into the labyrinth, and describe it as being ushered in by vertigo, vomiting, tinnitus, and sometimes a staggering gait; these disappear, but the deafness remains. Nerve deafness may arise as late as the fifteenth day; one or both ears may be affected, and all are agreed that it is quite incurable. Optic neuritis and neuro-retinitis followed by optic atrophy, and leading to total blindness, are among the more disastrous effects of mumps, but are fortunately rare. Paralysis of accom- modation has been seen, and a condition has been described by Hirschberg as " lachrymal mumps," in which first one and then the other lachrymal gland become swollen and painful, the inflammation subsiding in the course of a week or so. (5) Among the more general complications epistaxis, pneumonia, endo- and peri-carditis, arthritis, splenic enlargement, nephritis, gastro- intestinal catarrh, jaundice, and skin eruptions may be mentioned. The nephritis may be attended by hsematuria as well as albuminuria, and fatal urjemia has been observed on two occasions. Numerous though these complications are, none are very common; some epidemics are worse than others in this respect, and it has not infrequently been noticed that at one time one series of sequelte, at another, another group, was prevalent. Diagnosis.—This is rarely difficult. Symp- tomatic parotitis is excluded by the absence of any primary disease likely to give rise to it. In young infants enlargement of the preauricular gland is not uncommon ; mumps, however, is rare at this age ; in most cases of simple adenitis some source of irritation, often about the nostrils, can be found, the swelling is unilateral, and suppuration is common. In older children mumps may be simulated by enlargement of the upper cervical glands, when there is much surrounding oedema, and I have been misled by the occurrence of an enlarged cervical gland in a little boy suffering from unsuspected Bright's disease, with oedema /)f the cheek and neck. Periostitis of the lowpr jaw may also resemble mumps. When any difficulty does arise, how- ever, it is usually only temporary, and is solved in a day or two by the implication of the opposite side, and this is, after all, the principal guide at our disposal — the only one, indeed, in cases where the parotids are spared, and the submaxillary and sublingual glands alone involved. Prognosis.—This is almost always good, especially in children. No matter how severe the complications may appear there is always a fair prospect of recovery. Local septic processes and uraemia have been the most frequent causes of death. Deafness, unless due to otitis media, will be permanent, as is also the case in blind- ness following optic atrophy. Recovery from the nervous complications is the rule. Treatment.—Active measures are not re- quired. The patient should be kept in bed so long as the temperature is elevated, and confined to the house until the swelling is gone. In adult males it is probably wise to enjoin more prolonged rest, since orchitis may be caused by allowing the patient to go about too early. The diet should be fluid, on account of the diffi- culty of opening the jaws. In mild cases the only local application necessaiy is to cover the inflamed glands with spongiopiline or cotton- wool. Should much pain be complained of hot fomentations will be grateful; or the parts may be smeared with equal proportions of extract of belladonna and glycerine, or a little opium and belladonna liniment may be sprinkled on warm flannel, and renewed as required. An antiseptic gargle is useful: Eustace Smith re- commends half a tea-spoonful of the following formula in a tumbler of warm water as a mouth- wash :—R. Chloroform, ni_xv.. Sat. sol. of salol in sp. vini rect. ad 3j. Complications must be treated on general principles as they arise. An inflamed testicle should be packed with hot cotton-wool and covered with oiled silk ; leeches may be found useful in relieving the symptoms of meningitis. Mursena Punctata. See Snake- Bites AND Poisonous Fishes {Fish). M U rder. See Medicine, Forensic (Wounds, Accident, Suicide or Murder).MUREXIDE TEST 477 Murexide Test. — Murexide (Lat. murex, the purple-fish), the ammonium salt of purpuric acid, is used in testing for uric acid, because the latter heated with nitric acid is oxidised to alloxantin and this strikes a purple colour with ammonia yielding murexide. See Physiology, Excretion {Uric Acid); Uric Acid {Tests for Detection of). Muriate.—A salt of hydrochloric acid, a chloride; the term muriate is not now often used. Murmurs. See Anaemia {Symptoms, Bruit deDiahle); Aneurysm {Signs and Symptoms, Bruit); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm {Ausculta- tion) ; Bruit ; Chlorosis {Cardiac and Vascular Murmurs); Heart, Affections of Myocardium AND Endocardium {Physical Examination of the Heart, Murmurs); Lungs, Tuberculosis of {Physical Signs of Vomica Formation). Murodine. See Intestines, Diseases of {Enteritis, Exciting Causes, Decomposing Meat). Murphy's Button. — An apparatus consisting of two button-like parts (male and female), each of which has a hollow stem and one of which carries a spring flange ; it is used for bringing together the two halves of the bowel in cases of intestinal anastomosis, e.g. in the operation for intestinal obstruction. The one end of the bowel is passed over the one button and the other over the other, and the two stems are pressed together; the constant pres- sure in time causes necrosis of the tissues, and the closed button is set free and discharged by the rectum and anus. See Intestines, Sur- gical Affections of {Intestinal Obstruction, Treatment). Murr£lin.—Any serious disease of cattle and sheep, especially foot and mouth disease(g'.v.). Mii rren. See Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Stvitzerland). MuSCa Domestica.—The housefly; the swallowing of its larvse may produce gastro- intestinal myiasis. See Myiasis {Intestinal). MuSCaS Volitantes.—Floating specks seen when the gaze is directed to imiformly lighted surfaces, e.g. white clouds; they are due to opacities in the media of the eyes. See Choroid, Diseases of {Choroiditis, Symptoms); Eye, Clinical Examination of {Symptomatology, Spots before the Eyes). Muscarine. —An alkaloid, C5H15NO3, found in poisonous fungi, e.g. the Agaricus muscarius (often mistaken for the edible Agari- cus campestris); it causes vomiting, diarrhoea, cramps, and collapse, but, owing to its emetic action, it is not often fatal. See Toxicology {Fungi). MuSCidae.—Flies. See Nose, Foreign Bodies {Parasites). Muscles, Diseases of the. 1. Myalgia 478 2. Rupture of Muscle . . .479 3. Congenital Absence of Muscle . 479 4. Changes in Muscle due to Circu- latory Disturbances . . .479 5. Degeneration of Muscle . . 481 6. Inflammatory Diseases of Muscle— A. Primary Affection of Muscles— (1) Polymyositis, various forms . 481 (2) Nexiromyositis . . . 483 (3) Tuberculous Myositis . . 484 (4) Syphilitic Myositis . . 484 (5) Myositis due to Trichina . 484 B. Secondary Affection of Muscles fol- lowing Pycemia, Gonorrhcea, etc. 485 C. Myositis Ossificans . . . 486 7. New Growth in Muscle . . . 486 8. Myotonia Congenita — Thomsen's Disease 487 9. Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy .... 488 (1) Infantile Type .... 488 (2) Juvenile Type (Erb) . . .488 (3) Pseudo-hyp)ertrophic Typ)e . . 489 (4) Facio-Scajmlo-humeral Type (Lan- douzy-Dejerine) .... 490 10. Peroneal Type of Muscular Atro- phy (Charcot-Marie) . . .491 11. Progressive Muscular Atrophy in Infants (Hoff"mann) . . . 492 See also Abdomen, Clinical Investigation of {Inspection, Movements of Muscles); Ai^coholism {Chronic, Loss of Muscular Strength); Atrophy, Infantile {Symptoms, Muscular Twitchings); Axilla {Anatomy, Muscles); Beriberi {Symp- toms, Muscular Weakness); Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affections of {Surgical Anatomy); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Paralysis, Rigidity of Muscles); Brain, Physiology of {Muscular Sense); Brain, Cerebellum, Affec- tions of {Disturbance of Muscular Sense); Burns and Scalds {Burns of Fifth Degree, Charring of Muscles); Chest-Wali^, Affections op {Affections of Muscles of Chest); Children, Clinical Examination of {J^eck and Back); Cholera, Epidemic {Symptoms, Cramps); De- formities ; Electricity {Galvanism, Reaction of Degeneration); Eyelids, Affections of {Aluscles, Spasm of Orbicularis, etc.); Fcetus, Develop- ment OF; Generation, Female Organs of {Uterus, Structure of); Gout {Irregular, Muscular Tissues); Heart, Affections of Myo- cardium AND Endocardium {Affections of the Myocardium); Hydatid Disease ; Hypertrophy {Pseudo-hypertrophy); Hypnotism {Experimental, Phenomena, Changes in Muscular System); Hysteria {Muscular Atrophy); Hysteria, Surgical Aspects of {Affections of Muscles);MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 478 Labour, Physiology of {Factors of Labour, Fotoers); Labour, Accidental Complications (Injuries to Foetus); Leprosy {Clinical Features, Changes in Muscles); Meningitis, Epidemic Cerbbro-Spinal {Symptoms, Rigidity of Back, etc.); Mental Deficiency {Muscular Atrophy); Myasthenia Gravis ; Neck, Eegion of (Wounds of Sterno-Mastoid); Nerves, Multiple Peri- pheral Neuritis {Symptoms, Motor); Ocular Muscles, Affections of ; Paralysis ; Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle); Pigments of the Body {Pigments in Muscle); Pneumonia, Clinical {Clinical Features in Old Age); Pregnancy, Physiology' {Local Changes, Uterine Muscur lature); Puerperium, Physiology {Involution of the Uterus); Pulse {Frequency, Muscular Exercise); Rheumatism, Chronic {Muscular); Rickets {Clinical Features, Muscular Debility); Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Muscles); Spasm ; Spinal Cord, Medical {Symptomatology, Motor Symptoms); Syphilis (Visceral, Muscles and Tendons); Syringomyelia {Symptoms, Muscular Atrophy); Tabes Dorsalis {Symp- tomatology, Muscular Tonus, etc.); Tempera- ture (Elevation, Muscular Exertion); Tendon- Jerks ; Toxicology {Strychnine Poisoning); Trades, Dangerous {Lead-Poisoning, Symptoma- tology); Typhoid Fever {Complications, Rupture of Muscular Fibres); Visceral Pain {Muscular Hyperaisthesia); Wry-Neck or Torticollis. The diseases of the muscular system are possibly one of the most difficult subjects to arrange in a systematic manner: firstly, on account of the ill-defined nature and rarity of some of the affections; and, secondly, because many of the muscular affections are only mani- festations of some primary disease of the nervous system. It has been the endeavour of the writer to limit the scope of the present article to those diseases of the muscle which may be considered as primary muscular affections. It is, however, impossible to keep strictly to such a course, and certain affections have been dealt with which will probably in the future be shown not to be primary muscular affections. The subject is a large one, and in order to make the article as comprehensive as possible, and yet not unduly to increase its length, those diseases which are of more ordinary occurrence and of importance have been fully dealt with, while those of rarity and possessing little clinical interest have but short mention. 1. Myalgia, Muscular Rheumatism.—The advantage of making a separate group of the condition known as muscular rheumatism or myalgia may be doubted, for in many cases muscular pain is simply a symptom of some acute or chronic disease. On the other hand, there exists a well-recognised class of affection in which the leading and often only symptom is pain and stiffness in a muscle or group of muscles. Etiology.—In an affection having so indefinite a pathology the etiology is also likely to be indefinite. The majority of cases are attributed to cold, either local, as when a stiff neck results from sitting in a draught; or general, as when a person suffers from general muscular rheu- matism after sleeping in a damp bed or on damp ground. The rapid alteration of temperature which occurs when a person who is perspiring freely is exposed to a cold wind, and especially when this is associated with physical exhaustion, would also seem to pl^y a prominent part in the etiology of the affection. Certain persons are undoubtedly much more liable to the affection than others, and this would suggest that the rheumatic and gouty diathesis has also some influence in their production. There is no evidence that the disease has any connection with acute rheumatism, or that it is the result of any infective process. Symptoms.—Muscular rheumatism is charac- terised by pain situated in the muscle. This is increased by active or passive movement, and the muscle is also tender on direct pressure. The pain may be referred to a single muscle, or may affect a group of muscles or even the whole body. Owing to the pain caused by the contraction of the muscle, the body or limb is kept in a fixed position, so that the affected muscle or group of muscles is kept from active contraction, and hence it follows that it is not the affected muscles which are hard and con- tracted, bvit the muscles which are relaxed, the other muscles simply acting as a splint to the affected one. So long as the muscle is kept fairly at rest there is little pain, and this dis- tinguishes the pain from that of neuralgia. The condition is unattended by any consti- tutional symptoms, and there is no disturbance of temperature. On examination of the patient nothing objective can be found; the muscle is tender on pressure, but pressure does not give rise to the acute pain of active or passive movement. The muscle is not swollen, nor is it contracted. Muscular rheumatism tends to affect certain muscles of the body; some of those most commonly involved are those of the neck, giving rise to the condition known as " stiff neck." Not infrequently the pain is re- ferred to the lumbar region and to the muscles of the back (lumbago, q.v.), at other times to the shoulder, and sometimes to the abdominal muscles. A chronic form of muscular rheumatism has been described, in which acute attacks occurring at short intervals make the disease appear of a chronic nature. Pathology. — No pathological process has been found to account for this condition. Some authors refer the pain to the aponeurosis of the muscle, others to the connective tissue, others again to the tendons. Certain it is that there are end-organs of a sensory nature not only inMUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 479 the aponeurosis and tendon of the muscle, but also in the muscle itself, which are capable of giving rise to afferent impulses of a painful nature. Prognods.—The disease is usually of a short duration, and tends to pass off without treat- ment in a few days. Treatment.—Treatment consists in the ap- plication of dry or moist heat to the part affected. Counter-irritation by blisters, leeches, etc., are of some use; massage is also of service, and it is important to exercise the muscles either actively or passively. A Turkish bath will often give great relief, and when followed by massage and active or passive movements, will completely relieve the condition. Salicylates or quinine may be given internally, but local remedies are usually most efficacious. 2. Rupture of Muscle.—It is not proposed to deal here with the condition of muscular stiffness and pain which results after prolonged and unusual exertion, for it may be regarded as a physiological rather than a pathological con- dition. On the other hand, some of the severer forms of such an affection have been attributed to rupture of some muscle fibres. Rupture of muscle may be due to—firstly, direct injury; secondly, to the forcible con- traction of the muscle ; and, thirdly, to a spon- taneous rupture in the course of acute febrile conditions in which the muscle has undergone degeneration. The smallest exertion, such as a cough or the shifting of the position in bed, is able to cause rupture of the muscle in these cases. With regard to the first form it needs no special mention here. In the second form, where the rupture occurs after some forcible contraction in a healthy or, at any rate, not obviously unhealthy muscle, the patient has sudden severe pain in the position of the ruptured muscle, with loss of power of the movements of the affected muscle. In the re- laxed position of the muscle the pain is lessened, while it is intensified either by active contraction or passive extension of the muscles. Between the separate ends of the muscle a groove can be felt, though this not infrequently becomes filled up with extravasated blood. The process of repair takes place, and the muscle may be fully restored, though such a fortunate termination is not always obtained. Rupture which occurs in a muscle during the course of febrile conditions is always due to some pathological change in the muscle fibre. The rectus abdominis muscle is that which is most frequently affected, in other cases the psoas and abductors of the thigh may be af- fected. The rupture of these muscles may occur whilst coughing, during convulsions, delirium, and during the process of defsecation. The condition most commonly occurs during typhoid fever, and is not infrequently followed by a severe hsematoma, but it has also been noted in malaria, miliary tuberculosis, phthisis, and tetanus. Symptoms.—Sharp pain is complained of at the time of rupture which lasts one or two days, and is increased on muscular exertion. Usually a swelling occurs at the seat of rupture which is elastic and gives rise to fluctuation. The muscle may be tender on pressure, and may in such a case give rise to the diagnosis of peri- tonitis. In spite of the degenerate condition of the muscle recovery generally takes place. The process by which recovery of a muscle takes place is one over which there has been con- siderable controversy, but it is now generally believed that reconstruction of the muscle fibre takes place from the growing out of the end of the ruptured muscle. Hernia of Muscle.—This is a rare condition, in which owing to injury a portion of the muscle during contraction becomes extruded through its aponeurosis. 3. Congenital Absence of Muscle.—Scattered throughout medical literature are reports of cases in which certain muscles have been con- genitally absent. It would seem from the re- ported cases that the muscle most frequently absent is the pectoralis major on one side; not a few cases of this sort have been described, giving rise to the absence of the anterior fold of the axilla, and to flattening and depression of the chest-wall on the side of which the muscle is absent. This has been associated in some cases with abnormally small arteries on the affected side. The congenital absence of the latissimum dorsi has been noted in con- junction with the absence of the pectoralis major, and in some cases the pectoralis minor has also been absent. The clavicular portion of the pectoralis major generally remains normally developed while the two lower portions are absent. Absence of the abdominal muscle has been described, and also of the semi-membra- nosus muscle. The interest of these cases is, however, mostly anatomical, except in so far as any deformity produced may be attributed to disease. The absence of the muscle does not necessarily cause any loss of function, for that is generally performed by some other muscle. 4. Changes in Muscle due to Vascular Disturbance. — The changes which occur in muscles from which the blood-supply is cut off are commonly known under the name of " Ischsemic paralysis," and the most frequent cause of this condition is the too tight applica- tion of splints after fracture or other injury. It will be convenient, however, to deal with the subject under two heads : first, the muscular change produced by interruption of the arterial supply; and, secondly, by the obstruction to the venous return. Affection of Muscle due to Interruption of Arterial Supply.—This depends largely on twoMUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 480 factors: in the first place the interruption of the blood-supply must be nearly complete ; and, secondly, it must be of some hours' dura- tion, for it is well known that a temporary interruption of two to three hours is easily tolerated. Etiology.—The direct cause of such interrup- tion of circulation is either due to an embolus or thrombosis of the artery of the muscle when the collateral blood-supply is deficient. Embolus is due to some cardiac afl^ection, while throm- bosis is due either to some syphilitic endarteritis, or to thrombosis following one of the acute infective diseases. The changes in the vessels which accompany such diseases as Raynaud's, and which are primarily due to some defective nerve innervation, give rise to like ischsemic condition of the muscles. Direct injury to a vessel and cold may also be the cause of the affection, but the most frequent cause is un- doubtedly the too tight application of a bandage or splint. Symptoim.—The first symptom to manifest itself is numbness and tingling in the limb or portion of the limb affected, and this may be combined with some alteration of sensation. Then severe and often paroxysmal pain of a rheumatic character occurs, which is localised in the miiscle, and is followed by severe muscular cramp and spasmodic jerkings. The affected limb is pale, sometimes cyanosed and cold. The electrical irritability of the muscle is said to be lost after the ischsemic condition has lasted for five hours, and the muscles are quite flaccid and powerless. After seven hours, muscular rigidity and painful contractions begin; these increase in severity, and after two to three days dis- appear, leaving the muscles again flaccid. An oedematous condition of the muscles now occurs from a partially established collateral circula- tion, and at this time the muscle is tender on pressure. This swelling gradually disappears, and muscular atrophy becomes manifest, the muscles being hard and firm. Following this atrophy contraction begins to take place, and the hand becomes flexed at the wrist and the fingers at the phalangeal joints. The final con- traction of the muscle is due to the atrophy of the muscular fibres and to the formation of connective tissue. Atrophic changes in the skin are commonly present. The course which such condition runs depends to a very large extent on the duration of the primary ischfemic conditions; when once the muscular cramps and rigidity have set in it is probable that no immediate recovery of the muscle is to be looked for, but short of this the muscle may rapidly recover if the blood-supply is restored. In those cases in which the cramps have ap- peared it is probable that many of the muscular fibres die and have to be replaced by regenera- tion, a process which is of slow and long dura- tion. In those cases in which the ischsemic condition is of still longer duration, and the muscle has become flaccid, it is very improbable that any large amount of restitution can take place. Certain fibres may escape, and from these new fibres may be formed ; the amount of recovery, however, will be small. In such a case muscles rapidly atrophy, become tough, hard, and contracted. Pathological Anatomy.—Every stage of mus- cular degeneration and reparation may be met with according to tKe complete or incomplete interruption of the blood-supply. It will be sufficient to describe two conditions : the first, in which the blood-supply is completely inter- rupted ; and the second, in which the supply is deficient. In the first the muscle is of a greyish dirty yellow colour, dull in appearance, and friable. Under the microscope the trans- verse striation of the muscle is often more marked than normal, and the longitudinal striation also is very obvious. There is an almost complete absence of muscular nuclei. Fatty degeneration of the muscle does not usu- ally occur. In the second condition, when the vascular supply is only in part cut off, the muscle itself is firm and tough, and has more or less of a normal appearance. On micro- scopical examination it is seen that there is a great increase of the connective tissue between the bundles of fibres; and, further, it is seen that the individual muscle fibres are separated from one another by intervening connective tissue. Fibres thus separated usually have lost their polygonal form, and have become smaller and are rounded in shape. They, how- ever, retain their striation even when extremely atrophied. Many of the fibres appear to have spaces in them so that they are paler than the surrounding fibres, and on longitudinal section these spaces are seen as longitudinal splitting of the muscle. Affection of Muscle due to Interrupted Venous Return.—The change in muscle produced by venous thrombosis differs somewhat from that produced by interruption of the arterial supply. The acute symptoms are those of thrombosis of the vessel in the limb, viz., swelling, cyanosis, and oedema. The limb feels full, hard, and is tender on pressure. The acute symptoms may pass off, but the limb is left in a condition of passive congestion, and the result of this is that the muscles and limb become larger than the corresponding limb, and a condition of pseudo-hypertrophy is produced. Pathological Anatomy.—The condition found in the muscle during the early stage is one of increase of the intermuscular and connective tissue. In the later stages the connective tissue becomes more abundant, and there is some atrophy of muscles, fibres, and fatty degeneration. Ha;mo7-rhage into Muscle.—This occurs in the course of acute febrile disease, poisoning byMUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 481 phosphorus, severe jaundice, in haemophilia and scurvy, and in other forms of arterial degeneration. 5. Forms of Muscular Degeneration.—Short mention need only be made here with regard to the forms of muscular degeneration; they occur for the most part in the course of prolonged febrile diseases, or as the result of some acute toxic condition. Three forms are usually de- scribed— (1) fatty degeneration; (2) hyaline degeneration ; and (3) vacuolation of the muscle fibre. (1) Fatty Degeneration.—This may occur in the course of any of the acute specific fevers, in septicsemia, and in acute and chronic tubercu- losis. It occurs in the course of various nervous affections in which there is atrophy and wasting of muscle, and it has also been shown to occur as the result of status epilepticus. The muscle also shows fatty degeneration in extreme wasting condition, whether produced by want of food or disease, and in poisoning by phosphorus and arsenic. Pathology.—In slighter cases the naked-eye appearance of muscle is normal, while in the severer cases it is easily friable, yellowish in colour, and has not its normal glistening ap- pearance. On microscopical examination of a muscle treated with osmic acid, one sees in the slighter cases small black granules scattered throughout the muscle, the transverse striation being still preserved. In more advanced con- ditions these black dots become more numerous, and arranged in a longitudinal manner; and in a still later stage the transverse striation of the fibre disappears, and fat granules are thickly distributed throughout the muscle fibre, while in the last stage the muscle fibre breaks down, and large droplets of fat are seen lying between the fibres, and the perivascular lymphatics are blocked with fat. (2) Hyaline Degeneration. — This form of muscular degeneration has been most frequently found in the course of typhoid fever; it occurs also, however, in septic conditions, after pneu- monia, influenza, miliary tuberculosis, rheumatic and scarlet fever. When occurring during the course of typhoid fever, it is met with at the end of the second week, and affects most com- monly the abductor muscles of the thigh and the rectus abdominis muscle. The symptoms usually complained of are extreme feebleness and sometimes pain in the affected muscles, which are very flabby. After the fourth week repair of the muscle begins to take place, and it eventually becomes completely restored. The muscle is pale, flaccid, and slightly oedem- atous. Under the microscope portions of muscle fibres are seen to be swollen, so that when cut longitudinally the fibre has an ir- regular margin with transparent degenerate areas. The fibres are broader, two to three times greater than normal, and have either a VOL. VI homogeneous appearance or a fine longitudinal striation, the transverse striation being only just visible. Spaces and holes occur in the fibre. The number of nuclei in the sheath of the fibre is unaltered. (3) Vacuolation. — This condition is found under almost any condition which gives rise to muscular degeneration. It is present in muscles after typhoid fever, in myositis, in myopathy, and after nerve degeneration. Under the micro- scope the condition appears as a clear space in the muscle fibre; there may be only one of such spaces, or they may be grouped together so as to form a complete vacuolated area in the centre of a fibre. On transverse section of the muscle some of the muscle fibres seem com- pletely replaced by a single large vacuolation, while in others there are numerous small vacuoles. The nature of the material which fills up these spaces is said to be a fluid albuminous body. 6. Inflammatory Diseases op the Muscles The difficulty of dividing this subject into suitable groups is considerable, but the follow- ing classification seems open to the least objection :— A. Primary Affection of Muscles. ii. Acute polymyositis, ii. Hsemorrhagic myositis, iii. Myositis which accom- panies urticaria and erythema. (2) Neuromyositis. (3) Tuberculous myositis. ((a) Diffuse syphilitic (4) Syphilitic myositis. < myositis. ((b) Muscle gumma. (5) Myositis due to trichina. B. Secondary Affections of Muscle in the Course of some Acute or Chronic Disease.—-They may be either suppurative or non-suppurative, parenchymatous or interstitial. Infective myo- sitis occurs in pyaemia, puerperal fever, ulcer- ative endocarditis, glanders, infective wounds, actinomysitis, erysipelas, and gonorrhoea. C. Myositis ossificans. (1) Polymyositis. The form of this disease known under the title acute polymyositis or dermato-myositis has only recently been recognised as an entity. Etiology. — The cause of the disease is obscure Two hypotheses have been suggested : firstly, that the disease is due to a toxin; secondly, that it is due to an animal parasite of the group Gregarinee. Neither of these hypo- theses has been proved, and careful bacterio- logical examination of the muscle has given a negative result. The suggestion that the con- dition is due to a toxin derived from the ingesta would be that which would seem most probable, for cases have been reported in which the 31482 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE disease has followed on the eating of stale crabs, and also of fish in poor condition. The sug- gestion that the condition is due to a gregarine is based on the occurrence in the lower animals of myositis due to a protozoon, but such has not been proved to be present in man. The disease has occurred in the course of diabetes, phthisis, tuberculous disease of the intestine, and after injury to the tongue. The disease is not contagious. Age and Sex. — Of 11 cases collected by Pfeiffer, 4 were in women, 7 in men. The youngest case occurred in a patient aged seven- teen, and the oldest in a man aged seventy. Symptoms.—The disease is characterised by swelling of the extremities, due to an inflamma- tory oedema of the subcutaneous tissue and muscles, attended by acute pain and rigidity of the muscles, great tenderness on pressure, and an erythematous rash resembling erysipelas situated over the affected parts. The onset of the disease is gradual, with malaise, weakness, loss of appetite, headache, and sometimes vomiting. There is usually a moderate rise of temperature, and the local symptoms manifest themselves by acute pain of a cramp-like character and tenderness, beginning usually in the legs and arms. Shortly after the tempera- ture begins to rise swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissue appears. This swelling starts usually in the limbs, forming a very solid cedema which does not readily pit on pressure. At a later stage the oedema spreads to the face and eyelids. The muscular pain is intense, and is increased by the slightest movement. The spleen sometimes becomes enlarged, and the patient sweats excessively. At the commence- ment of the illness the pain is not generally so severe that the limbs cannot be moved; later, however, the least movement causes so much pain that the patient lies helpless in bed. Other muscles of the body may become affected, the diaphragm, the intercostals, and the muscles of deglutition, so that there is great difficulty in speaking and swallowing. The muscles of the eye and tongue are also sometimes affected. Sensation is perfectly normal, and the nerves are not tender on pressure. The joints are un- affected. The knee-jerks are generally present, though the swollen condition of the limb and the pain caused by percussion may give rise to some difficulty in obtaining them. The electrical reactions in the earlier stage of the disease have been found to be normal, while in the later stages alteration has been present. The urine is generally normal, but it may con- tain some albumin. The course of the disease tends in the slighter cases to recovery after a duration of some weeks, although occasionally recovery is much more rapid. In the severer forms convalescence is very protracted, atrophy of the muscles following the subsidence of inflammation, and pigment changes occurring in the skin. In the severest cases death takes place from affection of the respiratory muscles, or from secondary affection of the lungs, bronchitis, or pneumonia. Diagnosis.—The disease as above described has certain definite features—a gradual onset attended by inflammatory swelling of the muscles, together with redness and swelling of the skin and subcutaneous tissue situated over the involved muscles, extreme tenderness with- out loss of sensation, the joints being unaffected. Such symptoms' form a clinical picture which renders the diagnosis one of no great difficulty in typical cases. The symptoms resemble those produced by trichina in some points, and espe- cially the swelling of the face and eyelids. This symptom, however, in trichina comes on at an earlier period, and the swelling of the face and eyelids is an early symptom, while in polymyo- sitis it is a late manifestation. The discovery of the trichina in the motions or in an excised portion of the muscle confirms the diagnosis. From polyneuritis the disease is distinguished by the more marked paralysis, the ansesthesia, the early and more rapid atrophy, the loss ofi knee-jerk, and the absence of the characteristic skin-affection in that disease. Morbid Anatomy.—The subcutaneous tissue is infiltrated with a yellowish serous fluid form- ing the hard oedema. Almost any muscle of the body may be affected, but the masseter and ocular muscles usually escape. The muscle itself shows widespread alteration. It is usually of a dirty yellowish-white colour, in which brownish-red patches appear. Haemorrhages can be seen in the muscle, which is soft and friable. The microscopical examination shows both a parenchymatous and an interstitial in- flammatory condition which may be either focal or diffuse. The muscle fibres are swollen and granular, and for the most part have lost their striation ; hyaline degeneration and vacuolation is often present, but fatty degeneration does not occur. Increase of round cells between the fibres is always present, and haemorrhages can be seen in these situations. It is generally con- sidered that the disease is primarily an affection of the connective tissue, and that the muscle fibres become affected secondarily. Polymyositis Hcemorr-hagica.—Of this variety of polymyositis comparatively few cases have been described; the symptoms and the patho- logical conditions are so distinct from dermato- myositis that it deserves separate mention. Etiology.—As with dermato-myositis so with hsemorrhagic myositis, the cause is obscure. Some cases have followed on acute throat in- fection, but in other cases no such definite preceding condition has occurred. Symptom.s.—The onset of the disease may be attended with moderate rise of temperature and with localised pain in the muscles, generally the I calf or the thigh. The muscle is swollen, and483 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE the swelling generally has a purple appearance, the surrounding tissue being cedematous. The swelling thus formed may disappear, and then reappear in some other portion of the body; after a short time several such swellings appear. The pain is usually acute, and all movement is very much impaired. The affected extremity is swollen, hard, very painful on pressure, and feels hot to the touch. The skin is not usually so much affected as in dermato-myositis, but there is often a rash having somewhat the ap- pearance of measles, sometimes that of purpura, and at other times there is very marked vaso- motor disturbance, so that any pressure or rubbing of the skin produces a bright red spot. Actual subcutaneous hsemorrhages not infre- quently occur. After the subcutaneous oedema has disappeared hard and tender swellings can be felt in the affected muscles. Atrophy of the muscle now begins to take place. Shortly after the onset of the disease the rapidity of the heart's beat is greatly increased without there being any obvious cardiac lesion. On electrical examination the muscles generally show some quantitative change. The knee-jerks are ob- tainable, and sensation is natural. Nothing abnormal can be detected in the internal organs, although the spleen is sometimes enlarged. Some cases, however, have had haemorrhage from the intestines. Course.—The disease is usually fatal from failure of the cardiac action and hypostatic congestion of the lungs. In one case, however, recovery took place. Pathological Anatomy.—The muscles appear of a dirty brown colour, and hsemorrhagic foci can be seen between the muscular fasciculi. The heart muscle shows the same brown colovir with small haemorrhages. Microscopically, during the acute stage intermuscular haemorrhages are found; the muscular fibres are separated from one another by the extravasated blood. The muscle fibres have lost many of their nuclei; they may be vacuolated, and show hyaline de- generation. In the later stages there is extreme atrophy of the muscle fibres, the connective tissue is greatly increased, and the remains of blood pigment is often to be seen. Polymyositis which accompanies Urticarial and Erythematous Affections of the Skin.—Besides the varieties of the disease above described, a very interesting condition is seen in association with urticaria and erythema, which instead of producing the severe affection described in the last two varieties tends rapidly to improve, leaving the patient in a few days restored to his usual health. The etiology of the disease is obscure. Cultivations from the muscles are negative. In one case that was brought under my notice the condition was produced by eating shell-fish, and was accompanied by severe urticaria, and one cannot but regard the disease as similar in origin and cause to urti- caria, and probably due to a poison of intes- tinal origin. Symptoms. — In the slighter forms of the disease the symptoms come on suddenly, with severe urticaria of the skin and swelling of the muscles generally limited to the lower extremi- ties. In the muscles themselves spindle-shaped swellings can be felt about the size of a man's thumb; the skin eruption disappears in the course of twenty-four to forty-eight hours, and the muscular swelling also becomes absorbed in about the same time. In the severer forms the lower extremities are considerably swollen, and the skin is oedematous and presents the condi- tion seen in erythema nodosum. The limbs feel hot and are tender on pressure; the muscles are hard, and small areas of induration can be felt in them. The patient can only move the legs with difhculty, and passive movements give rise to severe pain. The dis- turbance in temperature is not as a rule great; occasionally the joints become involved. The electrical irritability of the muscles is much diminished. Course and Prognosis.—The disease tends to rapid recovery ; in the first form the duration is but a few days, while in the latter, although the acutest symptoms may pass off in a week, yet there frequently remains great tenderness of the bones and muscles which may persist for a considerable period. Again, there is a tendency for this form to recur. Muscular atrophy is said to occur after the disease. Morbid Anatomy.—So far as observation goes from the examination of excised portion of muscle, there is an exudation of small cells in the muscle without any change in the muscle fibres themselves. (2) Neuromyositis. — This name has been given to a form of myositis which is generally considered of rheumatic origin. The disease usually affects one limb which is tender, and pain is especially caused by muscular contrac- tion. The joints and the nerve-trunks may be affected, but are tender to a lesser degree than the muscle. The disease occurs in patients after the second half of life, and usually follows on rheumatism. The symptoms indicate an interstitial inflammation of the muscles affecting the tissues in which the afferent nerves begin. The arm while at rest gives rise to but little pain, but the sudden contraction of the muscle caused by passive movement gives rise to great pain in the muscles. If, however, the arm be moved slowly and steadily a wide range of movement is possible, and it is only the occur- rence of a more sudden movement that causes sudden spasmodic contraction of the muscles to take place, and then the pain in the muscles becomes great. The fear of this pain usually results in the arm being held in a fixed position. The muscles are tender to touch, and are some- what wasted and flabby. The disease is of loaMUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 484 duration, and it is only by prolonged and patient treatment that improvement slowly takes place. The disease here described is that recognised by Gowers imder the above title; there is, however, a disease described by Senator which is widespread and acute, and closely resembles acute myositis above described. (3) Tuberculous Myositis.—Two forms of this disease are described : (1) in which the disease spreads from the neighbouring joint or bone into the muscle ; and (2) in which the disease commences in the muscle itself. Of the first form nothing need here be said. With regard to the second, it occurs most frequently in young persons who are already the subject of tuberculous disease. Symptoms.—The disease is of gradual onset, giving rise to some pain and swelling in the muscle. The mass is usually situated in the middle of the muscle, and is neither directly connected with the neighbouring tissue nor with the skin. The swelling is only tender on firm pressure, and often is quite painless. The function of the muscle remains good. The disease always runs a chronic course, the local condition giving rise to but little trouble; an abscess, however, may form. Morbid Anatomy.—The tuberculous mass lies in the muscle surroimded by a thick connective- tissue wall, the surrounding muscle is often indurated, and there is considerable interstitial change. (4) Syphilitic Myositis.—This disease mani- fests itself in two forms : (1) Diffuse syphilitic myositis; and (2) Muscle .gumma. These two varieties will be described separately. (a) Diffuse Syphilitic Myositis.—The period at which this disease is liable to occur after the primary infection is very varied, one author stating that 50 per cent of the cases occur during the first twelve months after primary infection, while others state that it commonly occurs three to four years after the primary infection, and it may be eleven or twelve. Symptoms. — The disease is gradual in its onset, and attended with considerable pain in the affected muscle, which is usually worse at night; movement, whether active or passive, greatly increases the pain. There is greatly diminished power in the muscle. The muscle feels hard and brawny and is tender on pressure, the skin is reddened and feels hot to the touch, while in other cases the skin is quite natural. The limitation of moveinent in the muscle is due to its inflammatory infiltration. The muscle most commonly affected is the biceps, but almost any muscle of the extremities may be affected, and the condition has been described in the masseter and sphincter ani. The electrical examination of the muscle shows only a quanti- tative change with no reaction of degeneration. The recovery is slow, and often attended by a considerable atrophy in the muscle or muscles affected. Many cases, however, recover com- pletely. Pathological Anatomy. — The microscopical appearances described are dilatation of the vessels, thickening of their walls, exudation of small cells, and at the same time proliferation of the muscle nuclei, lying in part between the primitive bundles and in part within the bundles. In later stages of the disease there is an increase of the interstitial connective tissue, and the ind/vidual muscle fibres become separated from one / another; lastly, the muscle fibres themselves become opaque and their contents granular, and the striation of the fibre dis- appears. Some fibres, however, undergo simple atrophy, and then the striation is preserved even in the smallest fibres. (&) Muscle Gumma.—This condition is stated to occur at a later period than the foregoing affection, and may manifest itself as long a& thirty years after the primary infection. The affection is attended by very little pain, and the first thing that the patient notices is a hard swelling in the muscles, which is not tender on pressure, although some pain may be produced by putting the muscle into action. The muscle most commonly affected is said to be the sterno- mastoid, after that the quadriceps extensor, the calf muscle, the biceps muscle of the arm, the masseter, and the pectoral. The affection is. sometimes symmetrical. The central portion of the muscle is that which is most commonly affected. The presence of the tumour gives rise to very little disturbance in function. The course which the disease runs depends largely on the rapidity of the formation of the gumma; when this has been rapid, and is. treated in an antisyphilitic manner, recovery rapidly takes place; when, however, the tumour has slowly developed it also slowly disappears, and may leave a hard indurated mass in the muscle. The tvimour which is seen in the sterno-mastoid muscle of infants is by some- attributed to a gumma in the muscle, and this- is probably correct in a small proportion of the cases. In these cases the tumour is not noticed at birth, but seems to develop in the first few weeks of life. The swelling disappears under mercurial treatment, but it is always difficult to say whether such a condition may not have been due to some inflammatory swelling taking place around an injured muscle. Pathological Anatomy. — The muscle tissue- around the gumma is generally considerably altered, there is a small cell infiltration and increase of the interstitial tissue between the muscle fibres. The striation of the muscle is generally retained. The vessels are thicker than normal, and dense fibrous bands lie between the muscle fibres. (5) Trichiniasis. — A disease dependent on the invasion of muscle by the parasite *' trichina spiralis " derived from infected pork.485 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE Symptoms.—Three stages are described in this disease : first, a stage of intestinal irritation commencing soon after the taking of the in- fected meat; second, a stage of severe mus- cular pain with pyrexia; and, third, a stage of subsidence during which the trichina becomes encysted in the muscle. Cases, however, vary in severity according to the extent of the infection. During the first stage there is vomiting, diarrhoea, furred tongue, abdominal pain, and cold extremities. These symptoms may manifest themselves within a few hours after taking the diseased meat. The severity of these symptoms is no guide to the futiire severity of the case, for, as has been pointed out, the excessive diarrhoea and vomiting tend to the removal of the trichina before their young have had time to penetrate the walls of the intestine. The acute symptoms now pass off, but diarrhoea may continue, and about the eighth day of the illness pufl&ness of the face and eyelids occurs; this lasts a few days. About the ninth or tenth day after infection pains are complained of in the muscles; these gradually increase in severity. The tempera- ture is raised usually between 102° and 103° F. The muscles become swollen, hard, and brawny, are ver}^ tender on palpation, and active or passive movement gives rise to severe pain. Almost any muscle of the body is liable to be affected, but the implication of the diaphragm, intercostals, and laryngeal muscles impeding respiration, and the implication of the masseter, tongue, and pharyngeal muscles affecting deglu- tition, very seriously interfere with the per- formance of vital functions. The patient lies in bed with the legs flexed, ffidema of the trunk and limbs occurs about the fourth or fifth week, and attacks of profuse perspiration also take place. Wasting may now occur, and the patient passes into a typhoid state with great prostration, stupor, and delirium. Pul- monary complications are liable to occur. The duration of these severe symptoms is about five to six weeks, after which convalescence sets in, and in a few weeks the patient is well again. Some cases are, however, much more protracted. Death usually occurs during the fourth or fifth week, and is immediately due to the involve- ment of the respiratory muscles and secondary pneumonia. Diagnosis.—Trichiniasis is most likely to be mistaken for typhoid fever; the presence of muscular swelling and tenderness, the oedema of the face and limbs, the presence of trichina in the stools and the absence of enlargement of the spleen, and a negative Widal reaction, would, together with a consideration of the onset, be sufficient to arrive at a correct diag- nosis. The disease has also to be distinguished from beriberi by the more marked involvement of the nervous system in that disease, viz., the absent knee-jerk and the aneesthesia. From acute polymyositis the diagnosis is by no means so easy : the swelling of the muscles is an earlier manifestation in polymyositis, and there is more affection of the skin. The presence of trichina in the motions would make the diagnosis certain. Treatment.—When the trichina has invaded the muscle no drug has the power of destroy- ing it. The removal of the parasite from the intestines should be carried out by purga- tives, and the constitutional symptoms must be treated in the usual manner. B. Secondary Affection of the Muscles. — Muscles may become secondarily affected from structures in their immediate neighbourhood, either from a suppurative inflammation in the skin, in the subcutaneous tissue, in the joints, in bones, or glands, the infection spreading directly from the part involved to the muscle. On the other hand, a suppurative myositis may arise from infection through the blood-stream ; such a condition is liable to occur in pyaemia, in ulcerative endocarditis, puerperal fever, glanders, actinomycosis, and from an infected wound or boil. Suppuration also occurs sometimes after the acute specific fevers, but when this is the case it can be shown that the abscesses so formed contain streptococci, staphylococci, and other organisms, and thei'efore are true infective pro- cesses, and not directly due to the original fever. The symptoms which attend such infective myositis are those of the general diseases, the symptoms connected with muscular condition being little in evidence. Pathology.—-The appearance of the muscle varies with the intensity and duration of the disease. The muscle has usually a dirty red colour, and on pressure a greyish-red fluid exudes; small focci of suppuration are present in the muscle. On microscopical examination of the muscle the transverse striation is absent, and there are numerous small round cells and extravasated blood between the muscle fibres, and in suitably stained specimens streptococci can be seen. The occurrence of actual abscesses in the muscle would seem to depend on the length of time that the disease has existed, for in some cases in which the general infection has been very acute no abscesses have been found, whereas in long-standing cases numerous ab- scesses occur. Should recovery take place, the condition of the muscle would not differ from that of a fibrous myositis from any other cause. Gonorrhoeal Myositis.—Another form of myo- sitis secondary to infection must have separate and rather special mention, as it does not fall into the line with other forms of infective myositis. This disease generally accompanies gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and commonly affects muscles in the immediate neighbourhood of the affected joint. The affection is generally local and limited to one muscle, the gastrocnemius, deltoid, or biceps being most commonly affected. The muscle is hard and swollen, tender on486 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE pressure, and feels hot to the touch. The limb is held in a fixed position, and the skin may also be affected. The acute symptoms are not of a long duration, but the muscle remains hard and infiltrated for some time; the process gradually clears up, leaving the muscle some- what atrophied. Fibrous Myositis.—It may well be questioned whether such a disease as primary fibrous myo- sitis exists, such cases having usually been regarded as either secondary to some acute condition, or have been designated "rheu- matic." Foreign authors regard it, however, as an entity, and, therefore, it may be well to give a short account of the disease. Symptoms,—Fibrous myositis is a chronic disease of gradual onset, affecting either a single muscle or a group of muscles, or it may be general. The lower extremities are usually first affected, but the disease may begin in the sterno- mastoid muscle. The patient complains of a drawing pain in the affected part, there is stiffness of the limbs and contraction of the muscles. They become very hard, but are not especially painful on pressure. The course of the disease is very protracted, but it is said that under suitable treatment there is a tendency to recover. Morbid Anatomy.—There is an increase of the interstitial tissue, and some of the muscle fibres are granular and others are atrophic. The blood-vessels are normal. (c) Myositis Ossificans.—This disease is char- acterised by a progressive bony formation in the muscles, with the result that the patient comes to be in a fixed and immovable position. Etiology.—The disease commonly affects the young, and generally starts before the fifteenth year of life. Of 45 cases, in 11 it was noticed during the first year of life, in 16 from one to five years, in 11 from five to fifteen, and in 7 after fifteen years of age. Males are rather more liable to be attacked than females, the proportion being about two to one. The direct cause of the disease is luiknown; trauma seems to be the most frequent ascribed cause of the onset. Symptoms.—The earlier symptoms are usually ascribed to inflammation of the muscle, following on injury ; at other times the disease begins quite insidiously, there are attacks of pain which occur at intervals, and are usually ascribed to rheuma- tism. Small hard masses may now appear in the muscle, which slowly becomes larger, or, what is rather more frequent, remains stationary for some time, and then during an exacerbation of the disease rather rapidly grows, and then again during a quiescent period remains about the same size. The disease, however, steadily ad- vances ; small masses of bone can be felt in the muscle, and these gradually increase in size and become fused with one another. The muscles most commonly affected are those of the back of the neck, back, and thorax, and less frequently those of the arms, legs, and jaw. Owing to the affection of the muscles of the back, rigidity and fixidity of the spinal column is produced, so that the head becomes bent forward, the back curved, the position giving to the patient an appear- ance which is most characteristic of the disease. The shoulder-blades may become fixed to the thora:^, and as the pectoral muscles are often affectfed the arms become fixed to the sides, and the patient can no longer raise the arms to his mouth in order to feed himself. The disease progresses and the patient becomes less and less capable of any movement, and the rigidity is such that any attempted movement of the arm by another person only results in the movement of the patient "en bloc." The limbs become flexed owing to the shortening of the muscles. The thorax may now be simply a bony cage in which no respiratory movement is possible, the whole of respiration being carried on by the diaphragm ; the masseters may also be so affected that the jaws are tightly closed together, making the feeding of the patient a matter of some difficulty. Even at this late stage of the disease fragments of bone of a fantastic shape can be felt in the muscle free from any attach- ment to the skeleton. Certain muscles are said never to be affected ; these are the muscles of the face, the platysma, the eye muscles, the tongue, the muscles of the oesophagus and larynx, the diaphragm, heart, muscles of the perineum, the genital apparatus, and the sphincters. The great toes are often abnormally small owing to some defect in development of the phalanges, and a similar malformation has been described in the development of the thumb. The course of the disease is very prolonged, the patient remaining for long periods in a stationary condition, and at intervals suffering from the acute exacerbation of the disease above described. Pathology.—Two views are held with regard to the pathology of myositis ossificans. The first is that the condition is an inflammatory one, and the second is that it is a new growth similar to multiple exostoses. The examination of the new-formed bone would seem to show that it is true bone, having the normal chemical constituents and the anatomical characters of true bone. The growth originates either from the bones themselves, from the tendons, or from the fascia and connective tissue of the muscle. The atrophy of the muscle is second- ary to the affection of the intermuscular tissue. 7. New Growth in Muscle.—Primary new growth in muscle is rare, and needs but short mention here. Sarcomata, fibro - sarcomata, myxo-sarcomata are the most frequent neo- plasms of muscle. The growth develops from connective tissue, and secondarily causes atrophy and destruction of the muscle fibres. The following growths are of rarer occurrence:MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 487 fibromata, lipomata, angiomata, myxomata, and enchondromata. Carcinoma of the muscle occurs only as secondary to a primary process in some other situation. A few cases of rhabdomyomata have been described. Hydatids have also been found in muscle. 8. Myotonia Congenita — Thomsen's Dis- 'EASE.—Definition.—A disease characterised by a prolonged contraction of muscles on the attempt to perform any voluntary movement. Etiology. —■ Heredity plays the most im- portant part as an etiological factor. The disease exists in certain families, and passes from parent to child, affecting both brothers and sisters in the same family. Other members of the family have suffered from mental weakness. The age at which the onset of the disease occurs is doubtful, but it is probably congenital, although patients do not as a rule complain till some time during the second decade of life. Males are rather more frequently affected than females. In a few cases the disease appears to have been acquired, in one such case follow- ing on severe exertion, and in another after a sudden alarm. Symptoms.—The most striking symptom is that on attempting to perform any voluntary movement, the muscles associated with that movement and their antagonistics go into a state of prolonged contraction. Gradually the antagonistic muscles give way and the move- ment is performed; both the contraction and the relaxation of the muscles are very much prolonged. By repeating the movement fre- quently the action becomes more and more readily performed, so that after a short time the patient performs all the movements in a normal manner. The difficulty which the patient experiences on starting to walk is very marked, and this is especially noticeable in such actions as drilling, when the movement is expected to be briskly and sharply executed. When starting to walk, the first leg put forward becomes stiff, and remains so for a few seconds, the other leg becoming stiff when it is moved. The second time the first leg is moved the duration of the stiffness is less, so that after a few steps tbe patient walks in a normal manner, and will walk miles without trouble. Should he however stop, when starting again the same difficulty occurs. As with walking, so with other movements of the upper extremity or face. The opening and shutting of the mouth, the putting out of the tongue, the turning of the head, the grasping of an object with the hand, all show the same slow contrac- tion and relaxation of the muscles which is seen during walking. This has been graphically recorded by a myographic tracing, which shows the slow contraction and relaxation of the earlier muscular efforts. Mental excitement and alcohol seem to have no influence on the condition. Cold and fatigue, however, are said to make the symptoms more pronounced. There is no difficulty in swallowing, in micturition, or defsecation. Any of the voluntary muscles may be affected, but those least commonly so are the muscles of the eye and of the larynx. The muscular development is usually good; indeed, it often seems to be in excess of the voluntary powers. Sensation is natural. Elect7-ical Reactions.—The " mytonic reaction " of Erb is present in the muscles, and its characters are as follows:—(1) The nerves show no increase of irritability to mechanical stimu- lus. (2) To the faradic current the nerves are quantitatively normal; but if the current be strong, the contraction produced on closing the circuit lasts much longer than it does in health. (3) To the galvanic current the nerves are quantitatively normal, but here also, if the current is strong, the contraction lasts longer than in health. (4) Mechanical stimuli applied to the muscles, as by hitting them, induces contractions more easily than in health. These contractions often last from five to thirty seconds. (5) The faradic current applied directly to the muscle, if strong, sets up contractions which last from five to thirty seconds. (6) When the galvanic current is applied directly to the muscle, the K.C.C. and the A.C.C. are equally easy to obtain, while in health, as is well known, the K.C.C. is more readily elicited than the A.C.C. With weak currents the contraction lasts longer than in health ; with strong currents it lasts some seconds, and relaxes very slowly (Hale White). Pathological Anatomy.—This is based chiefly on the examination of excised portions of muscle, though an examination has been made on one case, post-mortem, and nothing abnormal could be found in the brain, spinal cord, or nerves. The marked alteration which is present in the muscle fibres is their increased breadth. The normal fibre measures about -04 to '06 mm. in diameter, while in Thomsen's disease they measure nearly double their normal width. The transverse striation is feebly marked, and the nuclei of the sarcolemma are increased in number. Vacuolation is present in some of the fibres. The disease is regarded by all observers as a congenital one, and as purely muscular. Hale White calls attention to the fact that the peculiar contractions are exactly the same as those which may be produced in animals which have been poisoned by veratria. Ringer and Sainsbury find that if phosphate of soda is given to an animal, and the sciatic nerve then stimu- lated, contractions like those of Thomsen's disease are produced, and this even if curare had been previously injected. From this it would appear that Thomsen-like contractions are due to the action of phosphate of soda on the muscle fibres themselves. Treatment.—No treatment has been found to influence the course of the disease. It isMUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE 488 probably well, however, that the patient should live a life of active muscular exercise. 9. Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy Introduction.—Under this title a group of cases is described which is often known under the heading " Myopathy." Several types of this disease exist, and for the purposes of description they will be divided into four groups: (1) the infantile type; (2) the juvenile type (Erb); (3) the pseudo-hyper- trophic type; and (4) the facio-scapulo-humeral type (Landouzy-Dejerine). But although for the purposes of description such a division is convenient and may with justice be adopted, it must be remembered that there are many cases which do not conform to any of the above types, but possess some of the characters of each type. In fact, it is possible to find cases which form connecting links between all the types. General Considerations. — The characters which the various types of this disease possess in common are: slow progressive loss of power in muscles or groups of muscles which do not correspond either to a spinal or nerve distribu- tion ; the absence of all fibrillary contractions of the muscle so frequently seen in cases where the disease is of myelopathic origin ; the marked tendency of the disease to affect families and to pass from parent to child; the absence of any qualitative electrical change ; the absence of any disturbance in sensation, or in the condition of the sphincters ; and the .absence of affection of the muscles of the larynx, pharynx, and diaphragm. (1) Infantile Type.—The special characters of this type are that the disease begins in infancy; the weakness is not necessarily noticed a,t the time of birth, but generally between the third and sixth month of life. The babe does not learn to sit up, or if it does it is only late in doing so. At a somewhat later age, when put into a sitting position, it may be able to maintain the erect position, especially with the aid of the side of the cot; but if anything upsets its balance, it rolls over, and is not again able to assume the sitting position. The child is generally perfectly contented to lie in the position in which it has fallen or is placed. As the child grows it learns to talk at the usual age, is bright and intelligent, but it makes no attempt to walk. Such a child, if seen about the age of three years, presents the following- conditions :—The child will sit up in bed, the back being held very straight and the head erect. The arms and legs are very thin, but no localised atrophy or hypertrophy of the muscles can be made out. The lower portion of the pectoralis major is fairly developed in relation to the condition of the other muscles. Some of the leg muscles may feel rather tough and hard, but there is no hypertrophy. All the movements of the face and also of the arms are well performed, although the latter are weak ; and the same may be said to be true with regard to the legs, all movements being capable of performance, though weakly. If such a child be placed on its back and asked to sit up,/not infrequently it will be quite unable to do $50, or it will rotate itself on its long axis, so that its face is turned to the floor. The legs are drawn up under the abdomen, and then by a process of pushing by the hands the trunk is raised to an erect position. Even this cannot always be done without the aid of some lateral support such as the side of the cot. The trunk now having been placed in an erect position, the legs are manipulated so as to bring them again in front of the trunk, but great care has to be exercised so as not to disturb the equili- brium. As a rule the legs are somewhat flexed at the hip and knee joints by the contraction of the flexors of these joints, and cannot be fully extended. If the child is placed on its legs it will support its weight and make some attempt at progressing, but it can neither walk nor stand without some support. The bones of these children are always very small and thin, and if an attempt be made to lift them by grasping the upper part of the humerus, the loose condition of their shoulder-joints, so characteristic of myopathic affections, is at once noticeable. The intellectual development of these children is often very good, from the fact that they have been imable to get about like other children, and have had to amuse themselves or to be amused in other ways. The superficial reflexes are usually present, the knee-jerks are generally diminished or absent, according to the degree to which the atrophy has progressed. The sensation is natural, and all the functions are well performed. The electrical reactions show a greatly diminished reaction both to faradism and galvanism without any qualitative change. It is interesting also to note that these children will bear, without the least appearance of pain, a faradic current so strong that it cannot be borne by the normal adult. The disease is very slowly progressive, and apart from inter- current disease does not tend to shorten life. This form of disease is markedly familial, brothers and sisters of a family being alike afflicted, but it does not seem to pass from parent to child. This may be accounted for by the extremely crippled condition in which the child is from a few years after birth on- wards. The disease is very slowly progressive, and though not fatal in itself, the hold on life which these patients possess is very small, and they rapidly succumb if attacked by ailments which to a normal child would be trivial. (2) Juvenile Type (Erb).—This form of muscular atrophy commonly makes its appear- ance, as its name implies, during the second i489 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE decade of life. Many authors describe it with that variety known as the facio-scapulo-humeral type. But although they are closely allied, it has seemed to me that this form does in its most typical form possess characters which warrant a separate description. These may be briefly stated as follows:—(i.) the absence of affection of the face, (ii.) the occurrence of hypertrophy, and (iii.) the age of incidence, i.e. during the second decade of life. The disease is a familial one and affects both sexes alike. Symptoms.—^The weakness commonly begins in the arms, the shoulder-blades may be noticed to stand out and the arms to become thin; the muscles which are the most markedly affected are the biceps, triceps, pectoralis major, latis- simus dorsi, trapezius, rhomboids, serratus magnus, and supinator longus, while the del- toids, supra- and infra-spinati often appear abnormally large. The muscles of the forearm and the hand are usually well developed, and the contrast between the upper and fore arm is very striking. The muscles of the neck and face are normally developed. The muscles of the thigh and pelvic girdle are generally affected somewhat later than those of the arm, but the atrophy of the quadriceps extensor, the biceps femoris, semitendinosus, semimem- branosus, adductors, and the glutei is very considerable, and the appearance of a patient affected with this disease is very striking, for the thighs and upper arm are very thin, while the legs below the knee and forearm are well developed. Sensation is unaffected. The elec- trical excitability of the muscle is diminished, but there is no reaction of degeneration. The progress of the disease is very slow. (3) The Pseudo-hypertrophic Type.—This form has certain well-marked characteristics. In the first place, the tendency of the disease is to affect males in a greater proportion than females, but the affection is usually transmitted through the mother, she being frequently a member of a myopathic family although not herself affected. Several members of one family may be affected, and in such an event the boys usually suffer while the girls escape. The disease commonly manifests itself between ages of five and six—not that some signs of the disease cannot be detected if looked for earlier, but the unusual weakness in the child is at this age first observed. Although the above is the age at which the onset of the disease is most common, cases occur not only in the second and third decade of life, but also during the fourth. Three-quarters of the cases, how- ever, occur before the age of ten years. The cause of the disease is unknown. Symptoms.—The first symptom usually noticed is that the child frequently falls, and is then unable to get up from the ground without help. On the other hand, the difficulty with which the child goes upstairs is that which often first attracts attention. It is rarely that the enlarge- ment of the calf muscles is the first point to attract notice, although on examination they are often found to be enlarged. In a typical case of the disease it is usual to find certain muscles hypertrophied, hard, and firm, while others are atrophied or absent. The muscles most commonly hypertrophied are the calf muscles, one of the muscles of the quadriceps group, sometimes the vastus internus, sometimes the rectus, the glutei, the infraspinatus, the deltoid, and the triceps. The muscles which are most commonly atrophied are the costal and sternal portions of the pectoralis major, the latissimus dorsi, the biceps, the serratus magnus, the flexor muscles of the thigh, and the ex- tensors of the leg. The atrophy of the two lower portions of the pectoralis major and the hypertrophy of the infraspinatus is especially characteristic of the disease. The muscles of the face are rarely affected; the masseters are sometimes enlarged, and the tongue is occasion- ally enlarged. The position assumed by the patient when standing and when sitting is very characteristic. When standing the trunk is held erect, and there is marked lordosis ; when, however, the patient assumes the sitting position the lordosis is converted into a marked kyphosis. The gait is also very striking; it is waddling in character, the weight of the trunk being swung vertically over the head of one femur, while the other leg is swung forward without being raised from the ground to any extent by the flexors of the thigh. If any obstacle comes in the way so that the patient has to raise the foot, great difficulty is experienced in so doing, and this weakness is specially obvious when the patient attempts to go upstairs. When a child affected with this disease attempts to mount the stair, support is first taken from the balusters: with this arm fixing the trunk, the one leg is swung laterally on to the step above, and then brought to a position in immediate front of the patient; the hand is now placed on the knee, and the weight of the trunk is partly thrown forward, and partly pulled forward by the arm which is holding on to the balusters, and by this means the leg becomes again ex- tended, and the step is accomplished. This performance is again repeated for the next step. Often the patient cannot even accomplish this, and various devices are adopted, such as going upstairs backwards, climbing up the balusters with the arms and dragging the legs after. The difficulty which these patients exhibit in rising from the floor is a most characteristic feature of the disease. If the patient be laid on his back on the floor he cannot sit up straight away by flexing the trunk on the thighs, but he rotates himself by means of his arms on to his face. He now flexes the legs and places himself in a kneeling position, the shoulders being supported by the arms and hands on the ground. The490 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE legs are now extended, and the feet are gradu- ally brought nearer the hands, the head being placed well down between the arms, so that a large part of the weight of the trunk is sup- ported by the arms. The position is now such that the patient is standing with the trunk bent forward and supported by the hands on the ground, and the iinal stage of the manoeuvre is to raise the body on the thighs. This is done by the process known as " climbing up the legs," the hands being placed first on the leg, then on the thigh, thus elevating the trunk into the erect position. Certain deformities are met with in these cases. There is often some spinal curvature due to the weakness of the muscles of the back. The feet, owing to the contraction of the calf muscles, tend to assume a position of equinus, and at the same time the foot becomes inverted. The electrical excita- bility of the muscles is greatly diminished both to the faradic and galvanic current; there is never any reaction of degeneration. There is no afi^ection of the bladder or rectum. The superficial reflexes are, as a rvile, preserved; the knee-jerks are generally lost early, but this depends on the condition of the quadriceps extensor, and especially on that of the vastus internus. The progress of the disease is slow ; when, however, the patient loses the power of walking, weakness tends to increase rather rapidly. The final stage of the disease is one of atrophy and contraction. It should, how- ever, be mentioned that the disease sometimes runs its whole course without any hypertrophy; the cases, however, still have distinctive features, viz., the atrophy of the lower portion of the pectoralis major and the comparatively large infraspinati. Death is generally due to some pulmonary affection. (3) Facio-Scajmlo-Humeral Type (Landouzy- Dejerine).—This disease tends to affect both sexes alike, and is transmitted either by male or female. The age of onset is subject to great variation, some cases occurring in earliest child- hood, while others have come on in middle life. The following description, taken from a mother and son who were affected, gives a fairly good idea of the type:—The first thing that was noticed wrong was that the child when nine months old slept with his eyes open at night. When about two years old, having learnt to walk, it was noticed that he could not blow a toy trumpet unless the corners of the mouth were held, and that whenever he was taken out in the wind the tears ran down his cheeks; for this latter affection he was treated by the slit- ting up of the canaliculi. The child learnt to walk at the ordinary age, but was always thin. The child first came under observation when five years old, and the appearance of the face was very striking; it was expressionless and almost motionless, the mouth was long and held slightly open. The frontalis could not be moved ; the eyes could be closed with exertion, but the slightest pressure of the finger was able to prevent this and to open them when closed. The teeth could not be shown, and a smile was only indicated by a slight downward movement of the corners of the mouth. The cheeks could not be blown out, and the child could make no attempt to whistle. The tongue could /be well protruded ; the palate acted well, the rriasseters acted powerfully, and the ocular mov^iments were good. The appearance of the shoulders, as seen in the mother in whom the disease was more advanced, was striking. They were sloping, and the upper angle of the scapula could be seen from the front projecting midway between the tip of the shoulder and the line of the neck. The patient could not raise the hand to the head except by swinging it round to the back of the neck, and then " climbing " on to the head. There was great weakness of the serratus magnus, as manifested by the marked "winging" of the scapula when the arms were put out in front. There was wasting of the whole of the trapezius, the rhomboids, and the latissimus dorsi; but the infra- and supra-spinati and the deltoids were well de- veloped, the biceps and triceps were weak, and the pectoralis major was also affected. The muscles of the forearm and hand were well developed and strong. The muscles of the trunk and neck are only involved late in the disease. The muscles of the leg most commonly affected are the glutei and the muscles of the thigh; the peronei muscles are sometimes affected. Like all the other forms of this group, the muscles show no reaction of the degeneration on electrical examination, but simply a relative decrease. There is no altera- tion in sensation, and no affection of the sphincters. The course of the disease is ex- tremely slow. A child in whom facial weakness is present may show no marked weakness in the limbs till nearly twenty years old, and even then the progress of the disease is so slow that by thirty-five he is still able to keep at work. Often the disease seems to come to an absolute standstill. The knee-jerks are present so long as the quadriceps remains good. Pathological Anatomy. — The pathological anatomy applies to all the types included under the heading Idiopathic muscular ati-ophy and hypertrophy. It may be stated that no lesion can be found either in the spinal cord, the anterior or posterior roots, the peripheral nerves, or in either the finer motor or sensory fibres passing to the muscles. The muscles alone show any pathological change, although it must be mentioned that Babes has shown that changes exist in the motor end plates. The muscles to the naked eye appear either pale and resemble a mass of fat, or have a brown, firm, and hard appearance. On section of a muscle it is seen that there is a great in-491 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE crease of the connective tissue, not only between muscular bundles, but also between the in- dividual muscular fibres, so that individual fibres become surrounded by a ring of connective tissue. Some of the fibres are atrophied, others are hypertrophied, often being twice the normal diameter, but all have an almost circular outline on section. In between these muscle fibres fat becomes deposited. The muscle fibres are in some instances extremely atrophied, but even when reduced to a very small diameter they still retain their transverse striation. A few of the fibres may show some fatty degeneration, and some may be vacuolated. The walls of the vessels are thickened. A very striking feature in some of the muscles is the number of muscle- spindles that can be seen in cross-section of a muscle in a given area. In the normal muscle these are not, as a rule, very obvious, but owing to the atrophy which has taken place in the muscle fibres (the muscle-spindles remaining unaffected) the relation between the two has become altered. Pathology.—The fact that no change has been found in the nervous system, and that the change is almost limited to the muscles, is strong presumptive evidence for regarding the disease as primarily of myopathic and not myelopathic origin. The condition of the muscle, however, viz., the hypertropliied fibres, is not in itself incompatible with a nervous origin, for an exactly similar condition is found after a purely spinal lesion, and the suggestion made by Erb that it is possibly a trophoneurosis is one which should not be too summarily dis- missed. That one has not to do with the spinal affection of the cells of the anterior horns is clearly shown by the distribution of the muscular atrophy, since this follows no segmental distri- bution, but one which according to some authors follows rather a developmental order. There is, however, one point about the examination of the muscles themselves which may throw some light on the origin of the disease. It has already been noticed that the muscle-spindles form a very striking feature in transverse sections of the muscle. Now it is known that these structures are connected with nerve fibres of a sensory nature which pass up in the posterior roots, and it is also known that in such condi- tions as infantile paralysis, progressive muscular atrophy, these muscle-spindles do not atrophy. Now if it could be shown conclusively that these muscle-spindles exist unaltered in muscle which otherwise had undergone complete atrophy, then it would seem probable that the disease must depend on some lesion situated at a point where the course of the motor and sensory fibres lay apart, i.e. somewhere above the posterior root ganglion. The question is not, however, easily answered, for it has been shown by Sherrington that the muscle-spindles only very slowly undergo atrophy after their nerve- supply is cut off, and again the number of cases of myopathy in which special attention has been directed to this point is very limited. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis in a typical case is not difficult. In the pseudo-hypertrophic type, the enlargement of the calves and infraspinati and the atrophy of the pectoralis major ; in the facio-scapulo-humeral type the affection of the face, and in the scapulo-humeral type the atrophy of the upper arm and thigh, are features which are sufficiently striking to render the distinction of the types easy. From other forms of progressive muscular atrophy of spinal origin they are usually distinguished by the slower and more gradual onset, by the absence of all fibrillary tremor, by the distribution of the muscles affected, and by the absence of the re- action of degeneration on electrical examination. Treatment.—The patient should be encouraged to keep at exercise as long as possible. When once the patient ceases to walk the disease seems to make more rapid progress. It is im- portant that the patient should perform regular muscular exercises, both active and passive (see " Physical Education and Therapeutics "). Warmth and massage improve the circulation, and probably do some good, and lessen the tendency to muscular contraction. No drug exercises any influence upon the disease. 10. Peroneal Type of Muscular Atrophy. —This form of muscular atrophy has certain points in common with the myopathic form of muscular atrophy just described. But although it is here described under the heading of a mus- cular affection, it is in all probability primarily a spinal rather than a muscular disease. For the present, however, it is most conveniently described in association with the myopathic rather than the myelopathic affections. Etiology.—The disease is an hereditary and familial affection, in some cases being traced through five generations, and affecting numerous brothers and sisters in the same family. Males suffer rather more frequently than females. The influence of the acute specifics on the incidence of the disease would seem to be marked, and this is especially so in the sporadic cases. The age at which the disease usually manifests itself is before ten years, but a good many cases also occur during the second decade of life. Symptoms.—The first symptom of the disease generally manifests itself in the legs. There is a tendency to drop the foot and also to turn it in. This weakness is due to the wasting of the extensor longus hallucis, the extensor com- munis digitorum, and the peronei miiscles. The disease may start in one leg first, but is usually symmetrical ; the small muscles of the legs being successively involved, and finally the muscles of the hand and foot are also affected. The atrophy passes gradually up the leg, so that the distal portion of the muscle atrophies before the proximal, and those muscles492 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE more distally situated before those more proxi- mal. When the disease has invaded the thighs this gives to them " the bottle-shaped appear- ance." As the disease advances the small muscles of the hand are next to be affected, giving rise to the typical " claw hand," the atrophy later extending to the flexors and ex- tensors of the wrist. Even when the legs below the knee are atrophied to an extreme degree, it is remarkable how well the patients get about, and are even able to ride a bicycle for miles. In addition to muscular atrophy, there is very marked vasomotor change in the condition of the limbs, the feet being always blue and cold. Alteration of sensation has also been described, and pain has been present in some cases. Muscular tremor is present in some muscles. The knee-jerks are long pre- served, and even when the atrophy below the knee has become extreme, they are still obtain- able. The disease is very slowly progressive, although in a child in whom the first symptoms began after measles it was only eighteen months before the hands began to show signs of atrophy, and by that time the atrophy below the knee was extreme. The electrical excitability of the muscle is greatly diminished, so that often no reaction can be obtained either to faradism or galvanism of ordinary strength. Reaction of degeneration may be present. Prognosis and Course.—The course of the dis- ease is extremely slow, and death only results from some pulmonary or other complications. Pathology.—The pathology of this disease is still uncertain. The changes,that have been de- scribed are an increase of the interstitial tissue in the peripheral nerves, and a similar condition in the postero-median columns of the spinal cord. All observers are agreed that, apart from the changes of the posterior columns, no change can be found in the spinal cord or in the cells of the anterior horn. The distribution of the disease, affecting as it does the periphery of the limbs, strongly suggests a nervous lesion, and the occurrence of fibrillation, the alteration of sensation, and the occasional presence of the reaction of degeneration all point to the same direction. The occurrence of the disease in families indicates that there is a congenital tendency to premature failure in the lower neurone, and those which are longest seem most prone to suffer. That severe affections of the nervous system sometimes follow measles is well recognised, and that it should produce this particular form of disease in certain families and individuals in whom there is already possibly some congenital tendency to its development, is easily understood. - 11. An Hereditary Form op Progressive Muscular Atrophy in Young Children.—The disease here described has only of late years obtained general recognition. The cause of the disease is unknown; but it often affects many members of a family, and those independ- ently of sex. The age at which the disease first makes its appearance is about the tenth month of life; other cases have developed some- what later. There is, however, reason to be- lieve that the disease sometimes makes its appearance shortly after birth, and runs a pro- gressive course in the first few months of life. Symptoms.—An apparently healthy and in- telligent child who has made normal progress till the tenth month of life begins without any sudden onset or known cause to lose power first in the muscles about the pelvis, and then in the muscles of the back, so that the child who has been able to sit up in its cot is no longer able to do so. The disease pursues a progressive course—the shoulders, the thighs, the upper arm, the forearm, and feet. No special group of muscles is affected, the wasting being general. Fibrillary twitchings of the muscles may be present in some cases. The limbs are wasted and lie absolutely flaccid. On electrical examination the reaction of degenera- tion is often present. The deep reflexes, and sometimes the superficial, are abolished. There is no disturbance of sensation, and the sphinc- ters act normally. The mental condition re- mains unimpaired throughout the whole course of the disease. Bulbar symptoms sometimes make their appearance, and from these the child may die ; but since the intercostal muscles are often affected some pulmonary complication generally causes death. The disease usually runs its course in from three to four years. Pathological Anatomy. —■ The brain, cere- bellum, cranial nerves and their nuclei are normal. In the medulla and spinal cord atrophy of the cells of the anterior horn is a marked feature. Changes are found in the anterior roots, and also in the peripheral nerves; changes are also present to a slighter degree in the lateral columns of the cord. The muscles are degenerate, some fibres having undergone simple atrophy, others waxy degeneration, and others again granular degeneration. Hyper- trophied muscle fibres exist at certain points, and there is an increased amount of connective tissue and fat. Diagnosis.—^Considering the child's age the disease is most likely to be mistaken for rickets ; the child becomes flabby, loses its power of sitting up, and lies more or less helpless in its cot. The absence of all signs of rickets, the diminished excitability of the muscles of the leg, the absence of the knee-jerks, and the absence of tenderness, all point to some nervous affection. From an early form of myopathy the disease will be distinguished by its more rapid course, the absence of all electrical change, and also by the fact that the atrophy is general. Prognosis.—The disease is steadily progres- sive, and usually runs its course in from three to four years.493 MUSCLES, DISEASES OF THE Treatment. — No treatment has been found of any avail. Massage and electricity may be tried, but much cannot be expected from them. Muscles, Traumatic Affec- tions of.—The muscles, though not easily injured, may suffer from contusions and strains. In consequence of such there is usually pain and temporary impairment of function of the muscle, but in the absence of other more serious injury, such as dislocation or fracture, recovery is usually rapid and complete. Rupture of muscle is not a common occur- rence. It is probably never due to voluntary muscular contraction, but is either occasioned by external violence or by a sudden violent unexpected muscular contraction, with the result, if the tendon be not separated from the muscular belly, or from its attachment to the bone, that the muscular fibres are themselves torn through. In rare instances muscles have been ruptured in the violent tonic spasms of tetanus. The extent of muscular substance involved in the laceration is very variable. In many instances of partial rupture, where only a few fibres are lacerated, the clinical condition is indistinguishable from a strain. Complete rupture, where the whole muscular belly is torn across, is a more serious condition. Such injury is most common in the rectus abdominis, rectus cruris, addvictors of the thigh, soleus, pectoralis majoi-, biceps, deltoid, and triceps; whilst in the gastrocnemius partial nipture is more common. Muscles are more liable to rupture when they are the seat of any pathological pro- cess which reduces their elasticity, as, for example, the degenerative change seen in the late stages of typhoid fever. Although striped muscle has some power of proliferation, the ruptured muscle is united almost solely by fibrous tissue, and yet the movements dependent upon the contraction of this muscle may be but little impaired. Symptomatology. —• The individual who by some sudden instinctive muscular effort or otherwise ruptures a muscle experiences a sudden sharp pain likened to the blow of a whip or a stone, whilst there is a sense of some- thing having given way. On examination of the injured region, the conditions found depend mainly upon whether the ruptured muscle be superficial or deep. If the former, one may find hsemorrhagic discoloration of the skin to- gether with a swelling indicating the effused blood. Or one may determine the presence of a depression between the two halves of the ruptured muscle. On attempting such a move- ment as is due to the contraction of the injured muscle, the movement cannot be performed, or is defective, and the two portions of the muscular belly become prominent on either side of the soleus which was already felt. In cases of deep-seated rupture all these local signs can- not be determined, and the diagnosis must be based chiefly on the character of the pain and loss of function. It is often difficult to diff'er- entiate between laceration of a few fibres of the erector spinse and lumbago. For a considerable time after repair is complete there is local stiffness, weakness, and often pain on contraction of the mi;scle. Treatment aims at approximating the torn muscular surfaces and retaining them at rest in that position for a period varying according to the severity of the injury, but lasting five or six weeks in the case of a complete rupture. For a considerable time afterwards the patient should employ hot fomentations, massage, and moderate exercise. If there be complete riipture of some important muscle, an early operation to unite the portions of torn muscle will probably be advisable. Wounds.—After union of the divided muscle by operation it is to be kept in a relaxed position till imion is complete, just as in the treatment of rupture. Hernia of Muscle.—In consequence of rupture of the sheath, part of the muscular belly, when it contracts, will pass through the aperture in the sheath and form a hernia. Continued re- laxation of the muscle, or the pressure of a firm bandage, will as a rule eff'ect a cure. Muscular.—Relating to the muscles; e.g. muscular asthenopia (see Asthenopia, Muscular), muscular atrophy {see Muscles, Muscular Atro- phy), muscular rheumatism {see Rheumatism, Chronic), etc. MuSCUlariS MuCOSad.—A layer of unstriped muscle V)etween the mucous membrane and the submucosa. Musculo-.—In compound words musculo- means relating or belonging to muscle ; e.g. the musculo-spiral nerve (a nerve supplying certain muscles and having a spiral course), musculo- cutaneous nerve (one supplying both muscles and skin), etc. Mushrooms. See Agaricin; HiEMO- GLOBiNURiA (Toxic from Mushrooms); Invalid Feeding (CooTtery in Diabetes, Mushrooms au gratin); Toxicology {Poisoning, Vegetable Foods, Fungi). Musical Murmurs. —Humming sounds heard sometimes over the heart in cases of cardiac valvular disease, especially in con- genital malformations. See Heart, Congenital Malformations of {Physical Signs). Musicians' Palsy. See Neuroses, Occupation {Etiology, Violin arid Pianoforte Playing, etc.). Musin.—A proprietary preparation having a purgative effect, and said to contain tamarinds.494 MUSK Musk. /See MoscHus. MuSSelSi See Snake-Bites and Poison- ous Fishes {Fish); Toxicology (Fish). MuSSita.tion>—Silent movements of the lips occurring as a sign of some diseases. Musta—Grape juice, freshly expressed and unfermented. Mustard. See also Dermatitis Trau- matica BT Venenateo (Vegetable Agents); Pharmacology ; etc.—Sinapis is a mixture of powdered black and white mustard seeds (from Brassica nigra and Brassica alba). The power- ful volatile oil is developed on the addition of water by the action of an enzyme, myrosin. From the oil is prepared Linimentum Sinapis. Charta Sinapis, mustard leaf, is prepared from the powdered seeds by extracting the fixed oil with benzol, mixing the residue with Liquor Caoutchouc, and spreading on cartridge paper. Externally, mustard is used as a counter- irritant in a large variety of conditions, either as a poultice (1 part of mustard to 16 of linseed meal), or in the form of the Charta or Liniment. A mustard bath is often employed in the treat- ment of chills or febrile conditions, especially in children (about 15 oz. to every 15 gallons of hot water). Internally, mustard is a good and easily obtained emetic. About one table-spoon- ful in half a pint of hot water should be given in cases of poisoning. Thiosinamin is prepared by warmimg oil of mustard with alcoholic solution of ammonia. It is soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and glycerine. Given by hypodermic injection in doses of 10-15 m. of a 10 per cent solution it is said to cause absorption of scar tissue, and has been reported to give good results in keloid, in cicatricial stenosis of pylorus, in hour-glass stomach, in simple stricture of OBsophagus, in parametritis, and in scleroderma. Mut£lCism.—A tendency, in speaking, to use the m sound (Gr. ft., mu) too often and also in place of other sounds. Mutase.—A proteid food-stuff, used in diseases of the stomach and intestine; it is made from leguminous plants. Mutilation.—The production of de- formity or inefficiency by the removal of parts, such as fingers, ears, limbs, and even internal organs. See Insanity, Nature and Symptoms (Insane Defects of Inhibition, Mutilation Im- pulses). Mutism.—Dumbness. See Deapmutism ; Aphasia ; etc. Mutualism. See Commensalism ; Symbiosis. Myalg'ia. — Muscular pain or muscular rheumatism. See Muscles, Diseases op {Myalgia); see also Chest-Wall, Afpections OP {Pain in the Chest, Myalgia); Gout {Ir- regular, Muscular Tissues); Hydropathy {In Subacute and Chronic Diseases); Massage ; Rheumatism. Myasthenia.—Muscular weakness. Myasthenia Gravis. Definition/ ...... 494 History J . . . . . .495 Etiology 495 Symptoms ...... 495 Pathological Anatomy .... 496 Pathology 497 Diagnosis and Prognosis . . . .498 Treatment ...... 499 Synonyms. — Asthenic bulbar palsy, Bulbar paralyse ohne anatomischen Befund, Myas- thenische paralyse. Myasthenia gravis pseudo- paralytica, Malattia di Erb, Erb-Goldflam symptom complex, Hoppe-Goldflamsche Krank- heit, AUgemeine schwere Myasthenic, Asthenic motrice bulbo-spinale.^ Definition.—A disease which is characterised by muscular weakness and by the facility and rapidity with which the muscles become ex- hausted, as the result both of voluntary and faradic stimulation. Some or all of the voluntary muscles may be affected. The muscular weakness varies in degree and is unassociated with atrophy. The onset of the disease is usually, though not always, insidious. Although, as a rule, the disease shows a tendency to pursue a progressive course, remarkable variations in the intensity of the symptoms are apt to occur from time to time. A large proportion of the recorded cases have ended fatally, a sudden attack of asphyxia having frequently been the cause of death. No changes have been discovered, post mortem, to account for the symptoms. No specific treat- ment is known for the disease, though palliative measures are valuable. In the most recent editions of English text- books no mention is made of myasthenia gravis, or at most a few lines are allotted to its descrip- tion. Although imdoubtedly a rare disease, it seems certain that myasthenia gravis occurs more frequently than is commonly supposed; its extreme rarity is probably more apparent than real, and due to the fact that many cases ' A nomenclature which classes this disease with the various forms of bulbar palsy is to be avoided, since it is apt to give a quite erroneous conception of the nature of the disease. Myasthenia gravis is not a bulbar affection, but a general disease of the voluntary motor apparatus ; although it is true that many of its most striking symptoms are undoubtedly bulbar, it is rare to meet with a case in which the muscles of the extremities and trunk escape. Further, in exceptional instances, in the early stages of the disease at least, the limbs alone may be affected.MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 495 are not diagnosed. Since myasthenia gravis is often fatal, since it is often mistaken for hysteria, and since its recognition may be the means of averting a fatal termination, the disease assumes an importance out of all pro- portion to the frequency of its occurrence. Historical.—In 1877, Wilks reported a fatal case of bulbar paralysis, in which, although a careful microscopical examination of the medulla was made, no pathological lesion was found. In 1878-79, Erb drew attention to several cases of what he called "a new symptom-complex, probably of bulbar origin," and remarked upon the course of the disease, the presence of ptosis and of weakness of the neck and jaw muscles as points distinguishing it from the ordinary form of progressive bulbar palsy. Oppenheim, who in 1887 described a case of chronic pro- gressive bulbar paralysis without post-mortem "findings," drew attention to the absence of muscular atrophy and of corresponding electrical changes. In this case the pons, medulla, cranial nerve roots, spinal cord, tongue and hypoglossal nerve, the right biceps muscle and the nerve branches entering it, were examined micro- scopically, but nothing abnormal was met with. Hoppe, in 1892, by analysing the symptoms which the cases of Wilks, Eisenlohr, and Oppenheim presented, materially contributed to the recognition of the disease as a distinct clinical entity, and he was the first writer to suggest a toxic origin for the disease. Goldflam, in 1893, pointed out the ease with which the muscles become exhausted by voluntary effort, a fact not hitherto insisted on ; he also showed that the disease was curable (temporarily'?). Jolly, in 1894, demonstrated the myasthenic reaction, which will be described later. Striim- pell, in 1895, reviewed the literature and col- lected twenty cases which had been reported up to that time. Some eighty cases have now been placed on record. Etiology.—-Males and females suffer almost equally. Although the disease may occur at any age, it is most common between twenty and forty, women being attacked at a somewhat earlier age than men. A neuropathic history, either in the patient himself or in his family, was present in about a quarter of the recorded cases. No instance has been reported in which two members of the same family have been affected with the disease. Four or five times, the presence of some congenital abnormality (unilateral ptosis, a bifurcated uvula, an extra digit) has been noted, a point on which Oppenheim lays considerable stress in reference to the pathology of the disease. No class of society is exempt, although the disease appears to be rather more frequent among manual workers. Five of the recorded cases occurred in teachers. Not infrequently the symptoms have followed upon an infective disease (in- fluenza, typhoid, scarlet fever, etc.). Ansemia was present in several cases. In five or six instances the patient was subject to megrim, while more than once Graves' disease has been noted as a complication. Muscular over- exertion is not uncommonly mentioned as a cause of the disease. The onset of menstrua- tion, a confinement, a chill, emotional excitement, an attack of diarrhoea, and acute intestinal obstruction have been blamed in individual cases. Symptomatology.—The most prominent feature of this disease is the facility with which the muscles become fatigued by voluntary effort. The term myasthenic state seems applicable to this phenomenon. A voluntary movement which is at first perfectly carried out, becomes rapidly feebler each time it is repeated; finally, if persisted in, all power of performing the movement may be lost; after a short rest the movement can be again performed with almost as much power as on the first attempt. A variable degree of persistent paresis is often present in the affected muscles. This paresis is usually slight, but sometimes amounts to a complete paralysis {e.g. complete ophthalmo- plegia externa), and probably represents a more advanced stage of the myasthenic state, in which the recuperative power of the neuro- motor apparatus is especially impaired. Although the disease sometimes develops suddenly, a gradual mode of onset is the rule. Usually the initial symptoms are referable to one or two groups of muscles. As the disease progresses, it shows a tendency to affect all the voluntary muscles to a greater or less extent. In many cases, the external ocular muscles are the first to suffer; hence the ptosis and diplopia which so commonly occur as early symptoms. In some cases the weakness first appears in the limbs; in others, difficulty in articulation, in mastication, or in deglutition, first attracts attention. In pronounced cases of myasthenia gravis, the facies is pathognomonic. The face is mask- like and expressionless. The immobility of the lips when the patient speaks is very striking. Bilateral ptosis is usually present, though often slight in degree. Not infrequently the move- ments of the external ocular muscles are defective; occasionally there is complete ophthal- moplegia externa. Very characteristic alterations in speech occur. As the patient continues speaking, his speech becomes nasal, his articulation in- distinct, and he requires to take a breath after every two or three words. Finally, speech may become quite unintelligible. Weakness of the jaw muscles renders masti- cation difficult or impossible. Difficulty in swallowing is a source, not only of incon- venience, but of grave danger to the patient, for in a considerable number of the reported cases death was due to an attack of choking.MYASTHENIA GRAVIS 496 Because of the palate weakness already referred to, nasal regurgitation is apt to occur when the patient drinks. Inability to support the head, a common symptom, is accounted for by paresis of the neck muscles. The muscles of the extremities nearest the trunk are usually most affected. The paresis is not always equal on opposite sides of the body. Patients often complain of weakness in the arms, especially at night when undressing, or when brushing the hair. Weakness in the legs necessitates frequent rests when walking. If he tries to hurry, the patient speedily becomes breathless. Apart from the dyspnoea which results on exertion, attacks of breathlessness and cyanosis are apt to occur without apparent cause, and may prove fatal. Strtimpell attri- butes these attacks to falling back of the tongue. Palpitation is not uncommon; in the cases which have come under my notice in which the symptom was complained of, it was always associated with dyspnoea or flatulence. The above description of the symptomatology of myasthenia gravis refers more particularly to those cases of the disease in which the symp- toms are pronounced. In slight cases, the patient, during the earlier part of the day, both feels and looks in his usual health, and the symptoms only appear towards evening. This increase of the myasthenic state as the day ad- vances forms one of the most striking features of the clinical picture. In very severe cases the patient may be bedridden, unable to walk more than a few steps, and unable to sit up for more than a few minutes at a time; in some cases the weakness is so great that he can only turn in bed with difficulty. Various conditions intensify or aggravate the symptoms of the disease, and of these, emo- tional excitement is one of the most important. Females are usually worse at the menstrual periods. Cold also increases the readiness with which the fatigue symptoms appear. But quite apart from any known or obvious cause, great variations in the intensity of the myasthenic state are apt to occur. So far no mention has been made of the way in which the myasthenic muscles respond to electricity. Just as varying degrees of motor weakness are met with, so, corresponding varia- tions in the faradic excitability of the muscles occur. It is, however, the rapidity with which the muscular contractions diminish in response to faradic stimulation which is especially char- acteristic of this disease ; the term myasthenic reaction has been given by Jolly to this condi- tion. When a tetanising current is applied to an affected muscle, at first an active contraction is obtained, but in the course of a short time the muscle ceases to respond. If the electrode is removed from the muscle and reapplied after a short interval, a good contraction is again ob- tained. The myasthenic reaction is not con- stantly present; at one time a muscle can be exhausted in half a minute, at another time it may be impossible to exhaust it. The myas- thenic reaction, although not absolutely patho- gnomic of the malady, is a diagnostic sign of great value. The muscles react normally to galvanism. Little or no diiference is produced in the mus- cular contraction as the result of constant and repeated! stimulation by the galvanic current. After the faradic excitability of the muscle has been exhausted, a good contraction may still be obtained by galvanism. An analysis of the few reported cases of myasthenia gravis in which muscular atrophy was present, raises doubts as to whether true muscular atrophy ever occurs as a symptom of this disease. In some of these cases the dia- gnosis is doubtful quite apart from the presence of muscular atrophy. Indeed, with the excep- tion of a case reported by Laquer, in which extensive muscular atrophy followed upon the symptoms of myasthenia gravis, there does not appear to be a single undoubted case on record in which there was any marked degree of atrophy. It is quite possible that in this very exceptional case, the muscular atrophy was a complication due to some additional etiological factor, while it seems probable that the slight degree of atrophy met with in other cases may have been the result of muscular disuse. In none of the ten cases which one has personally examined was atrophy present. The deep reflexes are usually rather brisk. In three cases the activity of the knee-jerk was seem to dimininish after repeated tapping of the patella tendon. There is nothing abnormal as regards the skin reflexes. The plantar reflex is of the flexor type. Although a feeling of fatigue and aching in the muscles is sometimes complained of, objec- tive disturbances of sensation are not met with in myasthenia gravis. The mental state is un- impaired. The special senses are unaffected. There is no derangement of the bladder or rectum. Pathological Anatomy.—Nineteen cases have been examined post-mortem; in the majority of these cases no pathological lesion was found in the nervous system or other organs of the body. In several cases, small haemorrhages have been described around the vessels in the medulla and central grey matter. That these hajmorrhages were not responsible for the symp- toms, but due rather to the asphyxia which was the cause of death, seems probable for the following reasons :— Firstly: Although haemorrhages were noticed in the neighbourhood of the nerve nuclei, the nuclei themselves were not involved to any great extent. Secondly: The distribution of the haemor-497 MYASTHENIA GRAVIS rhages was not in accordance with the symptoms present during Hfe. Thirdly: The haemorrhages were of quite recent origin. Pathological changes in the medullary nuclei and anterior horn-cells have been described in two cases. In the case described by Murri, the changes were so slight as scarcely to warrant the term pathological, more especially since the post-mortem was delayed until six days after death; while the chromatolytic changes described by Widal and Marinesco in their case may be readily accounted for by the febrile condition present for some days before death. Changes suggesting a congenital defect of the nervous system were present in three cases. Thus Eisenlohr found a number of small fibres in the hypoglossal and some of the other motor nerve-roots, while in two other cases there was a double central canal. The upper motor neurons, peripheral nerves and muscles, when examined, have shown no pathological changes. I^.B.—Since this article was written a fatal case of myasthenia gravis has been described by D^jerine and Thomas {Revue neurologique, January 15, 1901, p. 3), in which the following conditions were met with on histological ex- amination :—A diminution of the nerve-cells in parts of the cerebral cortex {e.g. the left ascend- ing frontal convolution). The cell-bodies which persisted were reduced to rounded masses or to nuclei clothed with a thin layer of protoplasm. The neuroglia in this area was markedly in- creased. Scattered degenerations were found among the pyramidal nerve-fibres in their course through the bulb. The muscles of the tongue and larynx showed fatty degeneration, and the nerves supplying them were similarly affected. The nerve - fibres of the tangenital and projection systems appeared normal. No lesions could be found in the internal capsiiles, cerebral peduncles, basal ganglia, bulbar or spinal nuclei. Further observations are required to confirm the constancy of these changes. The following associated lesions have been met with in the other organs in individual instances, viz. :—Enlargement of the spleen; chronic interstitial nephritis; parenchymatous nephritis; miliary tubercle of the kidney; pulmonary tubercle ; a caseous bronchial gland ; a sarcoma of the anterior mediastinum ; myeloid sarcomata of the ribs associated with allaumo- suria, and, in a few cases, some enlargement of the thyroid gland. It is true, as Oppenheim remarks, in referring to these lesions, that they are morbid processes capable of introducing a toxic substance into the blood. But the total number of cases is so small and most of the above-mentioned changes so common, that it seems scarcely justifiable to lay much stress on their existence as playing a part in causing the disease. Pathology.—In the absence of a visible lesion VOL. VI to account for the symptoms, the seat of the lesion must of necessity remain a matter for speculation. Since the disease manifests itself exclusively by motor symptoms, the morbid process is in all probability confined to the motor neurons or to the muscles themselves. The suggestion that the lesion affects primarily the sympathetic system (Collins) seems to have little to support it. To regard the purely motor character of the symptoms as favouring an affection of the muscles as opposed to the nerves is clearly inadmissible, since certain diseases of the nervous system are known in which the symptoms are purely motor, and in which the lesion is confined to the motor neurons. The manner in which the myasthenic muscles respond to faradic and galvanic stimulation suggests an affection of the nerves rather than of the muscles. It has been shown in at least one case of myasthenia gravis that, if the muscular contractility is exhausted by faradism, a good muscular contraction can still be ob- tained by the direct application of the galvanic current to the muscles—the inference being, that it is the nerve - endings and not the muscular fibres which are actually functionless. The effect of emotional excitement in aggravat- ing the myasthenic state, and the occurrence of sudden attacks of dyspnoea, give support to the nervous origin of the disease. Further, it must be remembered that no disease of muscles is yet known which is un- associated with structural changes in the muscles themselves, while functional diseases of the nervous system are frequent. Although it is not possible, absolutely, to exclude the muscles, the bulk of the evidence is in favour of the nervous system being the seat of the lesion. It may be that both the upper and lower neurons are affected in varying degree. The flaccid nature of the paresis, the diminished faradic excitability which is some- times present, the myasthenic reaction, the attacks of dyspnoea and choking, all point to an affection of the lower as opposed to the upper neurons. As to the nature of the morbid process :— In many respects the myasthenic state re- sembles an exaggeration of normal physiological fatigiie. It seems to me that the phenomena of the diseases are best explained on the assumption that there exists an unstable con- dition of the motor neurons, as a result of which their capability of functional activity is reduced, so that they become exhausted more readily than in health, while their recuperative power may be at the same time diminished. Possibly this "condition" of the motor neurons is dependent i;pon a congenital "de- fect " in the neurons themselves. A more probable view would appear to be that a toxine, produced in the body consequent upon some 32498 MYASTHENIA GRAVIS defect of metabolism, induces this condition in the motor neurons. It is quite possible that, in the future, accurate observations on meta- bolism may throw some light on the pathology of myasthenia gravis. Impossible as it is, with the facts which we possess, to dogmatise upon the nature of this hypothetical poison, the view that it is of endo- genous origin, and that it acts by operating continuously upon the neuromotor apparatus, producing a relapse only when the vitality of these parts is sufficiently low for it to get the upper hand, appears in the present state of our knowledge to be the most reasonable. As has been already mentioned, in about a fourth of the recorded cases the first symptoms have appeared after an infective illness. When one considers the frequency of the infective diseases, the rarity of myasthenia gravis, and the comparatively small proportion of cases of this disease, in which the symptoms have followed upon an infective illness, it seems probable that the preceding malady acts in these cases by lowering the vitality of the organism rather than by producing a toxine which is the actual cause of the disease. Diagnosis. — When the symptoms are well marked, the diagnosis is easy, but the recog- nition of slight cases may be a matter of con- siderable difficulty. The following are the chief points upon which the diagnosis is to be based :— Firstly : The presence of muscular weakness, which is often slight in degree, and is unasso- ciated with atrophy or spasticity ; the muscular weakness varies in intensity from time to time and tends to affect in varying degree all the voluntary muscles — the muscles of the ex- tremities and trunk as well as those innervated by the cranial nerves Secondly: The facility with which muscles become exhausted both by voluntary effort (myasthenic state) and by faradism (myasthenic reaction). Thirdly: The absence of sensory symptoms apart from the fatigue of exhaustion, of sphincter trouble, of disturbance of the special senses, and of a neurotic temperament. Early cases of myasthenia gravis, in which the symptoms are only slight, are usually taken for hysteria, a mistake which is largely accounted for by the varying intensity of the symptoms—a feature common to the two diseases. Points of especial importance in the differential diagnosis between myasthenia gravis and hysteria, are the absence of an hysterical temperament and of sensory symptoms in the former disease ; while ophthalmoplegia externa, facial paresis, weakness of the neck muscles, and the myasthenic reaction are symptoms which, when present, help to confirm the diagnosis, since they are rarely if ever present in hysteria. More advanced cases of myasthenia gravis are to be distinguished from the different forms of bulbar palsy for which they are commonly mistaken. The more important features which distinguish myasthenia gravis from chronic progressive hiilbar paralysis are, the age of the patient (chronic progressive bulbar paralysis almost always occurs in people over forty years of age), the absence of muscular atrophy and fibrillary tremors, the frequent involvement of the eye muscles, and the intermittent character of the symptoms in the former disease. From those rare diseases chronic superior bulbar palsy and p)olioencep)halomyelitis the differential points already alluded to, viz., the absence of atrophy, the intermittent character of the symptoms, etc. are usually sufficient to allow of a diagnosis being made. Kalischer, Koschewnikoff", and others, however, have de- scribed cases in which the differential diagnosis between myasthenia gravis and polioencephalo- myelitis was very difficult. Since muscular atrophy was present \p. these cases, Oppenheim believes either thM they were not cases of myasthenia gTavis, or that the muscular atrophy was a complication and not a direct result of the disease. No post-mortem has as yet been made on an undoubted case of myas- thenia gravis in which muscular atrophy was present, and in the meantime one is disposed to accept the view which Oppenheim takes. In apoplectic or acute b^dbar palsy, the result of a vascular lesion, the onset is more sudden, and the tendency is for gradual improvement to occur. The lesion usually involves some of the sensory nerves, producing sensory symptoms, while paralysis of the limbs if present is most frequently unilateral and of the spastic type, i.e. associated with increased deep reiiexes on the affected side, the Babinskitve phenomenon, etc. Ultimately, atrophy follows in the muscles supplied from the affected nuclei. In a similar manner other bulbar lesions, such as tumour, softening, abscess, etc. are usually attended with symptoms indicating the implica- tion of sensory structures; the symptoms are rarely symmetrical, and if paresis of the limbs is present it is of the spastic type. The absence of muscular atrophy suggests possible difficulty in differentiating myasthenia gravis from pseudo-bulbar paralysis, and the absence of a nuclear lesion post-mortem sup- ports this supposition. As a matter of fact, the diagnosis between the two diseases is not a difficult one. The onset in pseudo-bulbar paralysis is usually sudden, and the tendency is for gradual improvement to take place; while if there be paralysis of the limbs, it is generally hemiplegic in distribution and of the spastic type. Mention has been made of the resemblance in physiognomy between the myojmthies and myasthenia gravis, but this resemblance is onlyMYASTHENIA GRAVIS 499 superficial. The involvement of the ocular muscles, the absence of similar cases in the family, the presence of the myasthenic state and myasthenic reaction, and the temporary improvements in myasthenia gravis place the diagnosis beyond doubt. Prognosis.—Of 60 cases collected and analysed by Harry Campbell and myself, 23 ended fatally. The average duration of life in the fatal cases was about a year and a half after the development of the first symptoms. It is inadmissible to lay too much stress, however, on deductions drawn from the recorded cases; without doubt these figures give an exaggerated impression as to the fatality of the disease, as will be seen from the following considerations. In the first place, the number of cases is not great; secondly, the nature of several of the cases was not recognised imtil the post-mortem, when the absence of a discoverable lesion to account for the symptoms drew the observers' attention to the unusual nature of the condition; and, thirdly, it is certain that many non-fatal cases have passed unnoticed, the majority having been in all probability diagnosed as hysteria. Although a year and a half has been the average duration of life in the fatal cases, in some instances the symptoms have been present for a very much longer period. Dreschfeld's patient, for instance, suffered from the disease for fifteen years. Death has been known to occur in fourteen •days in one case, while in several the total duration of life after the disease first appeared was under six months. Sometimes remarkable improvement takes place, and the symptoms may entirely or almost entirely disappear for months or even years. It is probable that complete and permanent recovery sometimes takes place, but since the majority of reported cases have only been recently observed, time must elapse before it is possible to speak dogmatically upon this point. In fatal cases, the end is usually sudden and often quite unexpected—a fact which should be borne in mind when giving a prognosis. It is particu- larly in those cases in which attacks of dyspnoea occur that a fatal result is most to be feared. Treatment.—Although no specific treatment is known, much can be done by palliative measures. Since the severity of the symptoms is greatly influenced by the psychic state of the patient, it follows that mental excitement of every kind is to be avoided. The beneficial effect to the patient of a favourable prognosis ■cannot be too strongly emphasised. Although his friends should be informed, the patient must not know of the gravity of his condition. The patient must forego muscular fatigue in any form ; more particularly is this important as regards the parts chiefly affected by the myas- thenic state. If there is much weakness, absolute rest in bed should be insisted on. It is important that the patient be warmly clad, since cold increases the severity of the symptoms. If there is much weakness in the muscles of mastication and deglutition, the greater part of the daily nourishment should be taken early in the day, as the myasthenic state becomes more pronounced towards evening. Solid food should be thoroughly minced, in order to spare the muscles of mastication, and to obviate the risk of choking. If the patient is unable to swallow the requisite amount of nourishment, he should be fed per rectum rather than by the oesophageal tube, for in one recorded case the passage of the stomach tube brought on a fatal attack of asphyxia. As regards electrical treatment: Faradism should not be used, as it actually does harm by fatiguing the muscles. Galvanism has been extensively employed, but it cannot be said that any certain beneficial resvilts have followed its use, although Goldflam attributes the im- provement in his cases largely to this mode of treatment. It is very doubtful whether massage has any beneficial effect. Hitherto drugs have been found of little value in the treatment of this disease. Strych- nine has been used in a number of cases both by the mouth and hypodermically, but no definite improvement has followed its use. Negative results have followed the use of glucose, potassium iodide, mercury, veratrin, physostig- min, and suprarenal extract. Thyroid extract, employed by Buzzard in one case, was followed by great improvement from the day the drug was first given; but later a relapse occurred, and although this patient stated that he im- proved whenever he was taking the thyroid, it is open to question to what extent the effect was a physical one. In another case in which thyroid was given, there was no improvement. Arsenic and iron appear to do good, probably by their general tonic action. It seems possible from theoretical considera- tions that inhalations of oxygen and infusion of saline fluid may be of use in the attacks of dyspnoea and cyanosis which are accompanied by general increase of the myasthenic state. Striimpell states that the attacks of dyspnoea may be relieved by pulling forward the tongue. Mycelium.—The threads or hyphse of a fungus which constitute its vegetative, as dis- thiguished from its reproductive, portion (Gr. iu,uKT79, fungus, Tjko';, a nail). See Lungs, Para- sitic Affections {Aspergillosis); Micro-Organ- isMs {Hyphomycetes); Nails, Affections of (Intoxications, D iagnosis). Mycetoma. Symptoms 500 Pathology . . . ■ .501 Diagnosis ...... 502 Treatment . . . ■ • .502500 MYCETOMA Mycetoma, a fungus foot (Carter), is common enough in parts of India, and particularly in Madura, in the Madras Presidency; in other districts occasional cases also occur. A few instances, five in number, have also been met with in America, two of the patients coming from Texas ; it seems probable that cases have hitherto been overlooked, and mistaken for tubercular caries or elephantiasis. Only one case has occurred in Europe (Bassiiii). As the poorer classes in India are nearly always bare- footed, the fungus probably finds its way into the part by some wound or fissure, especially as thorns are excessively common in the fields, and even the thick skin of the sole is frequently penetrated. In by far the larger number the foot is affected, but the disease also occurs in the fingers and palm of the hand, occasionally spreading upwards to the forearm. All the patients I have seen have been natives of the country, and so far as I am aware, the disease has not been met with in an European ; the latter wear boots, and are not likely to be in the fields except for shooting or soldiering purposes. The big toe is very frequently the earliest seat of the disease, and, unfortunately, the sole may also be primarily attacked ; very rarely does the disease extend above the leg, but I have met with it in the knee and thigh as high as the apex of Scarpa's triangle. There is, of course, no reason why any part of the body should not be affected provided the fungus be introduced. The researches of Drs. Kanthack, Boyce, and Surveyor show that the fungus is allied to that of actinomycosis. There are three varieties met with, named from the appearance of the peculiar bodies found either in the discharge or in the tissues. 1. Black Variety.—The bodies are black like grains of coarse gunpowder. 2. Yellow Variety. — The bodies resemble seeds, grains of smokeless powder, or fish roe. 3. Red variety, in which tlie colour of the particles is orange or red like grains of Cayenne pepper. This variety is less frequently met I with than either of the others, while the black I variety is most common of all. Symptoms.—The attention of the patient is usually at- tracted by swelling of the part, which, if it be the big toe, appears thickened, and has probably on the under surface one or more small -swellings-which burst, and from which a purulent dis- charge issues, and on careful examination some of the characteristic bodies can generally be detected in it. As the disease advances the whole foot becomes gradu- ally enlarged and misshapen, the dorsal and plantar sur- faces become more and more convex, the toes are gradually shortened and buried in the deformed foot {see Figure); numerous fistulous openings now form, but sometimes there are a few only; also rounded elevations about the size of a sixpenny piece are met with—these are usually darker than the surrounding surface, or may be yellow in colour. If very numerous they give almost the appearance of a tubercular eruption, having the shape and sometimes the size of a limpet; in the centre of these the fistulous opening is frequently found, but many are unbroken. If the swellings be opened the black or yellow bodies may be found in them. There is, as a rule, little or no pain present, but the patient complains of the increasing weight and the wealaiess of the foot when placed on the ground; at a later stage, how- ever, when the bones are involved, a good deal of pain may be complained of, and if the sole is markedly convex, as it soon becomes when early affected, the difficulty of walking is very much increased. On palpation the tissues feel firm, brawny, and inelastic; in parts, however, there may be areas rather softer than the rest, and occasionally fluctuating. The fistulous openings are small, and surrounded by dis-MYCETOMA 501 coloured areas frequently black or yellow in colour, and occasionally small granulations pro- trude. If the probe be introduced it can be made to pass through the diseased tissues until the bone is reached; through this it can be pushed with the greatest care, and a sensation of grating is imparted. If the bones have be- come much softened the arch of the foot is destroyed, and very little weight can be placed upon it. Some time usually elapses before this stage is reached. There is seldom any fever, nor does the general health suffer except in cases of great severity. When, however, abscesses form in the soft parts, as in the muscles of the calf, the patient becomes feverish, emaciated, and has the usual appearances of septicaemia. The glands become secondarily affected and more or less enlarged; they are found on microscopic examination to be infil- trated by the fungus, the femoral glands, and occasionally those around the external iliac artery have been found diseased. When the disease commences in the sole of the foot a small indurated area is first notice- able, which gradually extends, while openings subsequently appear upon the surface. In the early stage it is frequently extremely difficult to diagnose between inflammatory changes likely to be produced by the introduction of a foreign body into the sole, for which, in fact, it is usually mistaken by the patient. The plantar surface becomes gradually bulging, and so unfortunately interferes at an early period with locomotion, preventing the patient from carry- ing on his work, hence he is likely to seek advice before the disease has markedly advanced. Under these circumstances, except from below, the appearance of the foot, as a whole, is not appreciably affected for a con- siderable time, and the dorsal surface may, in fact, appear perfectly normal and the toes un- altered. Owing to disease of the extremity the calf muscles waste, and thus the size of the foot becomes still more marked. Little or no move- ment of the digits can be made by the patient when the disease is advanced. Similar changes take place in the hand : the bulging of the palm is most conspicuous, and the openings on both surfaces are usually numerous; the roots of the fingers are much enlarged, while the fingers themselves appear shortened. As no weight is placed on this part, as in the case of the foot, pain is only slight or practically absent. Pathology.—The changes in the tissues are so marked and peculiar that it is not surpris- ing that several different views were put forward to explain their causation, that is before the fungus was discovered. These changes are undoubtedly due to chronic inflammation and degenerative changes set up by the presence of the fungus. The skin is thickened and tough on section, the underlying tissues are replaced by granula- tion tissue, fibrous and fatty structures, the muscular fibres having more or less entirely disappeared, and even the plantar and palmar fascise and tendons gradually metamorphosed and destroyed; but portions of the muscular strata can generally be detected. The thickness of the parts is much, and in some cases enor- mously increased. In the substance of these tissues are numerous nodules, varying in size from a pin's head to that of a pea or larger, and in tliese the characteristic particles, black, yellow, or red, can readily be discovered. Some nodules may be broken down, soft and caseous in character, or small abscesses are formed between the layers of tissue. The bones, when much diseased, are extremely light and porous. Similar nodules are found scattered thi-oughout their substance ; if these are removed, round cavities are left connected together by fine channels; the whole bone itself is friable, red in colour, and easily perforated by the probe. The shape of the individual bones is very slightly altered. Their articular surfaces are seldom ulcerated as in caries, nor is there usually effusion between them. On section, masses of fungus are frequently found immediately be- neath the cartilage. When the muscles are large like those of the calf, abscesses containing purulent fluid and a quantity of roe-like bodies are frequently met with in the intermuscular spaces. In leprosy the bones are also light and porous, but the round shot-like cavities are absent, and the bones, particularly those of the phalanges, much attenuated. As long ago as 1874, Dr. Vandyke Carter gave a close and accurate description of this disease, which he rightly attributed to a vegetable fungus, but did not succeed in de- tecting the real organism. Later, Bassini, Kanthack, Boyce, and Surveyor made careful observations microscopically, and established the fact that the disease is due to a Ray fungus ; they differ, however, in some particulars, and Boyce and Surveyor are of opinion that there is more than one variety of fungus present. The fungus appears to be allied to that of actinomycosis; so far as I am aware, no in- stances of mycetoma have been described occurring in cattle, whereas in actinomycosis this is common enough. The particles of the yellow variety exhibit under the microscope a central mass readily stained by aniline dyes, while peripherally there is a zone of radiating filaments, also club-like processes, which too stain deeply with aniline dyes; and fatty crystals are also present, and sometimes cal- careous and phosphatic crystals and black particles containing iron. The central mass is described by Kanthack and others as con- sisting of a network of mycelial filaments. In order to cut sections, the best method (Surveyor)502 MYCETOMA is to embed in paraffin, and before dissolving out the paraffin to fix the section on a slide with Mayer's albumin ; this prevents the roe- like bodies from falling out. From the roe-like bodies a streptothrix has been cultivated by both Boyce and Vincent; it is aerobic, and grows well on potato saturated with alkaline nutrient broth, also on glycerine, agar. They did not, however, siicceed in communicating the disease by inoculation. Dr. Carter considered the black variety to be a degenerate form; Kanthack also was unable to convince himself that this variety was of a vegetable nature. The pigment is difficult to remove, but the application of eau de Javelle and hypobromite of soda will enable the fungus to be satisfactorily demonstrated ; this fungus is described as a "septeto asper- gillus," and cannot be found in the pale vai-ieties. So far no spores have been discovered, nor has cultivation been successful. The red variety has not yet been thoroughly examined; the colour can be removed by spirit, but no fungus has as yet been made out. Diagnosis. — When the disease is advanced there is little difficulty to anyone who has met with cases before, and the discovery of the roe bodies in the discharge will confirm the diagnosis absolutely. It is not, however, always possible to find them ; and particularly in the early stage when the disease is confined to a toe or portion of the sole or palm, it is by no means easy to arrive at a conclusion. Under these circumstances it is justifiable to incise the tissues and search for the diagnostic particles. The diagnosis lies between mycetoma and local inflammation, especially that due to a foreign body, tuberculous disease, and ele- phantiasis. If a foreign body is suspected it may be possible to feel it with a probe, or on examination after incision an X-rays may be made use of; this will expose either the foreign body or the characteristic seed-like particles of mycetoma. In one patient under my care a piece of a bradawl near the wrist-joint gave rise to appearances similar both to tuberculous caries and mycetoma. In tubercular disease the openings are few, granulations are usually present at the surface, the digits are mobile, and there are no seed-like bodies or tubercles on the surface; grating, too, is often present. In elephantiasis there are no fistulous openings, the skin is thrown into folds near the joints, the muscles act freely, and except on the scrotum, tubercles are seldom met with; if present, they have a solid feel. A section of the tissue has a very different appearance ; this is hypertrophy of the cellular tissue, which has a white gelatinous appearance, and fluid escapes freely. Treatment.—So far I have not met with suc- cess by any other than operative measures, and these are very successful except in the case of the sole. Amputation will as a rule cure the disease completely, and if only a toe or finger is implicated, with little detriment to the patient. Unfortunately, however, it is seldom that the disease is caught in this stage, and hence the removal of the hand or foot is usually necessary. In the case of the sole the diseased area must be freely cut away, and carbolic acid may be applied; it is difficult or impossible to assure one's self that the disease has been radically removed, and the excision of a large portion of the plantar surface will cripple the limb very considerably. It is impossible to bring the edges of the wound together, and if, as is extremely likely, the tissues are more deeply affected than was supposed, the surgeon may have to consider the desirability of pro- ceeding to amputation. I have found it, how- ever, most difficult to get the patient to see the necessity of this, unless the bulging is so excessive as to make the foot both useless and painful. When, however, the sole is not espe- cially affected, the patient is generally desirous of keeping the part until he can use it no longer ; provided that the general health is not affected, and the disease not extended above the ankle, there is no harm in adopting this plan, but the glands must be watched. Recur- rence in the stump has occurred after amputa- tion, to my own knowledge, in two instances. When the lymphatic glands are enlarged it is safe to remove them, although the enlargement may be due to irritation only. Dr. Childe was able to demonstrate the fungus in the glands of the groin as well as enlargement of the abdo- minal glands. Occasionally the general condition of the patient may preclude the advisability of any operative interference whatever. MyCO-.—In compound words myco- (Gr. IJ.vK7j<s, a fungus) signifies relating to a fungus or fungoid. Mycoangrioneurosis. — A neurosis characterised by the excessive secretion of mucus, as in mucous colitis. See Colon, Dis- eases OF. MyCOderma Cerevisiae. AS'ee Micro- organisms {Blastomycetes, Yeast). MyCOprotein. — An albuminoid sub- stance (C^.H^jNijOc,) produced by micro-organ- isms {e.g. of putrefaction). See Suppuration [Acute Abscess, Pus, Buchne7-'s Mycoprotein). Mycosis.—A disease due to the presence of micro-organisms or of fungi in or upon the body. Mycosis Fung^Oides. »S'ee Skin, Bac- teriology OF (Bacteria in Mycosis Fungoides) ; Tumours of the Skin {Mycosis Fungoides); X- Rays {Therapeutic Uses). See also Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lympho- derma Perniciosa, A Variety of Mycosis).503 MYCOSIS INTESTINALIS Mycosis Intestinal is. Anthrax {In Man, Intestinal Anthrax). Mycosis Leptothricia. See Pharynx, Examination of {Pharyngomycosis). Mycotic.—Related to or caused by micro- organisms or fungi, e.g. mycotic gastritis. See Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {Infective Gastritis). Mycterophonia.—Talking with anasal twang (Gr. ixvkttjp, the nose, <f>u>vri, a sound or tone). MycterOXerOSiS.—Dryness of the nose or nostrils. Mydalein.—-An alkaloid or ptomaine, produced during putrefaction, and acting in some respects like atropine (Gr. fjLvSaXio^, mouldy or putrid). MydatOXine. — A ptomaine produced during the decomposition of flesh, having an action like that of curara, and the chemical formula Cj-HjgNOg. Mydine.—A non-poisonous ptomaine pro- duced during putrefaction. Mydriasis.—Dilatation of the pupil, due either to paralysis of the oculo-motor nerve or to spasm of the sympathetic. See Brain, Tumours of {Diagnosis, Tumoiirs of Crura Cerebri); Iris and Ciliary Bodies {Injuries, Traumatic Mydriasis); Pharmacology {Atro- pine) ; Retinoscopy {Mydriatics). Mydriatics.—Drugs dilating the pupil, either by paralysing the oculo-motor or third nerve (Atropine, Homatropine, Daturine, Mus- carine, Aconite, etc.), or by stimulating the sympathetic {e.g. Cocaine), or by a central action {e.g. angesthetics). See under the drugs named, and under Eye, Clinical Examination ; Retinoscopy ; etc. Mydrin.—A proprietary preparation act- ing as a mydriatic, said to consist of one part of homatropine and one hundred parts of ephedrin, and used in 10 per cent solution. Mydrol.—A mydriatic powder, used in 5 or 10 per cent solution; chemically it is iodomethylphenylparazolin. Myectopy.—Displacement of a muscle (Gr. /xJs, a mouse or a muscle, and c/ctottos, distant). See Muscles, Diseases of {Congenital Absence, etc.). Myelsemia. — Myelogenic leuksemia or leucocythajmia. See Leucocyth^emia. Myelalg'ia.—Pain in the spinal cord (Gr. ixvfXos, medulla or marrow, and aA.yos, pain). M ye I ast h e n i a.—Spinal ne urasthenia. Myelatelia.—Imperfect formation of the spinal cord. Myelencephalon.—The part of the embryonic brain from which the medulla oblongata is developed. Myelin. — The apparently structureless sheath of a medullated nerve-fibre or the neurilemma or sheath of Schwann; also a sub- stance obtained from nerve-tissue, egg-yolk, etc. Myelinisation or Myelination. —The medullation of nerve-fibres which begins about the fifth month of antenatal life and is not completed till after birth; the functional activity of the nerve-fibres dates from the appearance of the medullary sheath. Myelitis. — Inflammation of the spinal cord. Several varieties are enumerated, such as ascending, bulbar, central, cornual, descending, diffuse, hwmorrhagic, and traumatic. When the grey matter is specially aff'ected, it is called poliomyelitis; when the white matter, leuco- myelitis. See Spinal Cord, Medical {Traumatic and Vascular Lesions); also Alcoholism {Patho- logy) ; Herpes {Herpes Zoster, Symptomatic); Measles {Complications); Nails, Affections OF {Diseases of the Nervous System); Paralysis {Landry's Paralysis, Diagnosis) ; Spbrma- TORRHCEA; SYRINGOMYELIA {Diagnosis); Ten- don Jerks {In Myelitis); Tetany {Morbid Ana.tomy). MyelO-.—In compound words myelo- (Gr. fivek6<;, marrow) means related to or referring to the spinal cord or to marrow. Myeloblast.—A cell from which a myelocyte is believed to be formed. Myelocele.—A variety of spina bifida in which there is defective closure of the spinal canal and of the central canal of the spinal cord as well. See Spina Bifida ( Varieties, Myelocele). MyelOCene.—A preparation of bone- marrow, which has been used in catarrhal deafness, in psoriasis, etc. Myelocystocele.—A form of spina bifida in which the sac is constituted by an expansion of the central canal of the spinal cord ; syringo-myelocele. Myelocyte.—A marrow cell or leucocyte derived from the bone-marrow. It has a single nucleus, its protoplasm contains neutrophile granules, and it is larger than most lympho- cytes ; it may contain (in some diseases) eosinophilic instead of neutrophilic granules, and it is then called an eosinophilic myelocyte. The myelocyte is normally found in the red bone-marrow, but in some pathological states it504 MYELOCYTE is present in the blood (niyelcemia). See Blood {Corpuscular Elements, White) ; Gout (Blood, Cellular Constituents) ; Lbucocytosis (Presence of Myelocytes^ MyelOCythaemia.—The presence of myelocytes in the blood. See Myelocyte ; Leucocyth^mia (Changes in Blood, Myelmmia); Leucocytosis (Presence of Myeloctyes). Mye log's nous. — Produced by bone- marrow, e.g. myelogenous leucocythtemia or myelogenic leuksemia. See Leucocyth^mia (Changes in the Blood, Myelaemia). IVIyeloid. — Resembling marrow, e.g. a myeloid sarcoma. Myeloma..—An encephaloid tumour or a giant-celled sarcoma. See Bone, Diseases of (Multiple Myeloma); Shoulder, Diseases and Injuries of (Tumours, Myelomata); Tumours (Connective Tissue Type, Myelomata) ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Clinical Significance of Albumosuria). Myelomeningocele. — A form of spina bifida in which the hernial protrusion contains in its wall the flattened-out spinal cord itself as well as the membranes. Myelopathia Tropica. See Beri- beri. Myeloplax. — A large multinucleated cell whose function is the absorption of bone; an osteoclast. Myelorrhaphy.—A reparative opera- tion upon the spinal cord. MyelOtherapy. — The use of bone- marrow extracts as medicinal agencies. MyelotOXin. — A substance having a toxic influence upon the spinal cord or upon bone-marrow. Myiasis. Myiasis Intestinalis .... 504 External Myiasis— Cutaneous ..... 506 Myiasis Vuhierum .... 506 Myiasis Narium, etc. . . . 507 Insect Stings and Bites, etc. . . 507 See also Nose, Foreign Bodies (Parasites). Myiasis (/xma, a fly).—The term " myasis " was invented by Hope in 1837 to indicate those disorders which originate from the accidental parasitism of dipterous larvae. The form myiasis has since been adopted as more nearly etymologically correct. The larvse of coleop- terous and lepidopterous insects (beetles and moths) have occasionally been found as temporary inhabitants of the alimentary tract of man, but it is doubtful if they have ever caused serious symptoms. It is far otherwise in the case of maggots of flies, and the acci- dental parasitism of dipterous larvce takes rank as an important section of parasitic disorders. Distinction is made between intestinal and external myiasis. Myiasis Intestinalis. — This condition is caused by larvae present in the alimentary tract, and introduced into the stomach (sometimes as eggs) with food. These larvae, in the great majority of instances, belong to the order Diptera, family Muscidae. In a series of a hundred cases the principal genera identified were— 1. Blow-flies and flesh-flies (blue-, grey-, and green-bottles) — e.g. Calliphora, Sarcophaga, Lucilia. 2. House-flies—Musca, etc. 3. Flower-flies—Anthomyia, etc. The bluebottle flies and similar genera lay eggs (the largest only 1"' in length) or larvae, on meat, and these are ingested along with cold beef, high game, etc. The house-fly also (though usually laying its eggs on stable dung) often finds a nidus in meat which has begun to decompose. The eggs and larvae of the Antho- myiidae are found in vegetables and salads. The larva of Eristalis, the drone-fly, is some- times found in drinking-water; Drosophila larvae have been swallowed in sour milk or meat; and the common cheese maggot Piophila casei is too ordinary an article of diet to excite remark. The symptoms of intestinal myiasis are not sufficiently defined to enable a diagnosis to be made before the larvae have actually appeared. Sometimes there are no symptoms complained of, and the extrusion of the larvae is brought about by a sudden act of vomiting. Or larvae may be noticed in the faeces, the host having been unaware of their lodgment within him. But ordinarily " the presence of these insect larvae is by no means harmless, and in propor- tion to their number and size they give rise to more irritation than the ordinary forms of intestinal worms properly so called " (Cobbold). This statement is fully borne out by clinical experience, and is readily understood when we consider their very active movements, the sharp appendages with which they are usually armed, and the great numbers which are often present. They may be evacuated in quantities too large for enumeration, and in individual cases have been estimated by the quart or litre. As a rule, grave symptoms are due to larvae present in hundreds or at least in scores. But even very few may give rise to pain, profuse diarrhoea, or other distressing symptoms. The history of a case of acute myiasis goes back to the particular occasion on which suspicious food was eaten. In general there is an interval of days, or even weeks, between this and the occurrence of symptoms. TheseMYIASIS 505 at first are, as a rule, vague. There is loss of appetite, discomfort, headache, fainting, vertigo —perhaps a feeling of anxiety or oppression, or other nervous manifestation, e.g. reflex cough. After this " incubation " stage the complaint is aggravated. There is colic, nausea, and curious "suckings," "pinchings," or "throbbing" in the abdomen, with constipation or diarrhoea. Pain may become very violent, occurring in crises, situated often in the left side or epigas- trium. Epilepsy may occur, or hjematemesis. The onset of severe symptoms may be very rapid—" like a blow"—accompanied occasionally by rigors and fever. Relief comes suddenly and is effected by vomiting or by evacuation at stool, and the patient is rid of the parasites at the moment or in the course of a few days. The presumption is that this crisis is precipitated by the arrival of the larvse at the full stage of their growth and development, and by the irritation they cause hy their active movements and bristly appendages. But though for the time the relief is immediate —and in acute cases permanent—in rare in- stances the symptoms may recur and the disease appear to take on a chronic character, although «very possibility of reinfection has been ex- cluded ; the larvae continue to be voided at regular or irregular intervals from stomach or intestine, each time with an interval of quiescence, a development of similar symptoms and a conclusion by violent ejection. It cannot be said that death has occurred in consequence of myiasis intestinalis. Of two instances re- ported as resulting fatally, the first is given with too scanty detail to enable us to judge the relation of the myiasis to the fatal result, and the second has been misquoted owing to an error in Hope's tables, which located the larvae in the " stomach" instead of in the "skin." Death in this case was due to cutaneous, not to intestinal myiasis. That " chronic " myiasis may cause death in a weakly subject is, however, by no means improbable. Myiasis is not frequently met with in the British Isles, but is not uncommon on the Continent and in America. This may be due to our less frequent use of uncooked foods, our greater freedom from swarms of flies, and our more temperate summers. But cases un- doubtedly occur unrecognised or unrecorded, and the publication of any one of these is usually followed by a small series of reports by observers whose attention has thus been directed to the subject. Little consideration is required to convince one that the eggs, if not the larvae, of insects {notably those of flies) find their way into the human stomach in thousands of cases. For apart from eating uncooked or tainted foods, the ordinary precaution of covering cold meat with wire netting may be defeated by the blue- bottle fly, which will drop its eggs through the meshes. Further, many races eat insects and their larvae as delicacies, and even in this country, school children have been found who habitually eat cockroaches. ^ It is equally certain that in most cases these eggs and larvae, though exceedingly tenacious of life,^ are destroyed in the digestive juices, and the dead eggs of the bluebottle are often found in the faeces. But we are unable to solve the question why in some cases, and not in all, do these eggs and larvae continue to live and develop after finding their way into the stomach. Experiments go to show that mere immersion in water for days will not always kill dipterous larvae, and when introduced into the stomach of frogs and guinea- pigs they will live in a small percentage of cases for twelve to seventy-two hours—a period sufliciently prolonged to carry them into a less hurtful environment in the large intestine. On the other hand, I have found that larvae of Calliphora (the blow-fly or bluebottle) do not survive artificial peptic and pancreatic digestion for more than six or seven hours, and that a dozen full-grown living maggots of the same species can be repeatedly swallowed without any symptoms resulting. Further, we have a number of recorded cases where larvae, to the number of hundreds, have been, at one time, vomited from the stomach days after their first possible ingestion. In these cases they must not only have lived but also developed in ventre, since they could not have been swallowed when full grown on account of their size. It is not sufficient to suppose that the presence of gastric catarrh, or of other parasites, is the condition which determines the viability of larvte inhabit- ing the intestinal canal, for about 25 per cent of cases furnish no history of such ailments. We can only say that some departure from normal conditions is necessary for their con- tinued life in the gastro - intestinal tract of man. Treatment.—In intestinal cases free purgation is generally sufficient to bring about evacuation of the larvae and to cure the patient. Experi- ments with anthelmintic agents tend to show that attempts to kill the parasites in situ would generally be unsuccessful; and indeed in nearly all cases the larvae have been evacuated alive. Large enemata, 3 to 5 pints, containing aq. chloroformi or turpentine, may be found use- ful, the eff"ort being made rather to clear the colon than to kill the larvae. Washing out ^ Anything is possible to a child. Buckland states that he met some boys who would swallow living frogs at a charge of a halfpenny apiece. Larvse of Teichomyza fusca have survived about 40 hours' immersion in concentrated solution of alum ; Eristalis tenax lavvse lived 40 minutes in alcohol at 90° C. ; maggots of the blow-fly or flesh-fly will live 34 hours in tinct. iod. and 3 to 5 hours in aqueous solution of the hydrg. perchlor. 1-1000.—Lancet, vol. ii., 1890, p. 690. Pruvot, Lallier, I.e. infra.MYIASIS 506 the stomach has been successfully employed in recent years. Causes of Error in Diag7Losis.—Many of the older accounts of myiasis intestinalis are open to doubt on account of the credulity of the naturalists of the time. Even most cautious physicians have been deceived by the ingenuity of hysterical patients who have continued to swallow larvfe or insects in order to produce an apparent illness. When the observation is made by the patient error is very liable to occur. Larvae supposed to have been voided are fre- quently discovered to have been deposited on the faeces after evacuation, or to have been already present in the chamber used. Many substances have been mistaken for new species of endoparasites, and have even received specific names. These have turned out to be portions of vegetable fibre or elastic tissue when subjected to a microscopical examination. External Myiasis. — It is convenient to consider three groups of cases: (1) Cutaneous myiasis; (2) myiasis vulnerum; (3) myiasis narium, conjunctivae, etc. 1. Cutaneous Myiasis.—The eggs of already- hatched larvae are laid on the skin, or in exposed wounds, ulcers, and sinuses, and in the dis- charges which may accompany diseases of the nose, ear, or eye. The larvae live and develop in these situations. If the eggs have been laid on the skin the larva when hatched penetrates the integument, and, living subcutaneously, produces at first more or less irritation, then a suppurating tumour or boil in which the still living larva may be found, or from which it escapes by movements of its body, further development taking place outside its host. In Europe the larva of the ox bot-fly or " warble- fly " {Ilypoderma bovis) is occasionally found under the skin of those engaged in tending cattle; cutaneous myiasis has also been traced to the bot-fly of the roe-deer and red-deer {H. diana). But such cases occur more frequently in America and in tropical climates, where, besides the above-named, larvae of several species of the genvis Dermatobia have in numerous instances been taken from suppurating swellings under the skin. In some localities the maggot of Dermatobia is known as Ver Macaque. In South and East Africa the larvae of Ochromyia (Ver de Cayor) cause at times crops of boils nearly covering the body. Natives are probably immune. A species of the ffistridae ((Estrus hominis) is said to have been differenti- ated peculiar to man, as CEstrus bovis is peculiar to the ox; but this is extremely doubtful. Treatment of these conditions consists in squeezing out the larvae, or by their removal with forceps, and healing follows rapidly with ordinary antiseptic measures. 2. Myiasis Vulnerum.—When eggs or larvae have been deposited in wounds or ulcers, or in any of the external openings of the body, the case may become much more grave and difficult to deal with. In all probability some diseased, or at least foul-smelling condition of the part, is necessary to attract the female fly. These cases occur in the breeding-time of the flies in question, i.e. in summer and autumn, and it is generally found that the patient has been in- fected while sleeping out of doors. A wound becomes "living," as it is termed, provided that the female of some species of blow-fly (blue- bottle), or flesh-fly, has gained access to it for the very short space of time required to deposit her brood. The appearance of such a wound has been described by Summa:— " To the naked eye such wounds appear as if beset with headless nails, which rise and fall with the extension and contraction of the animals while sucking. When the position of the larvae is superficial we distinctly see their white bodies; the head sits with its booklets in the bottom of the wound, which usually secretes no pus, but only a bloody-watery fluid, and has a bluish-pale and, after the removal of the animals, a spongy appearance. The black hinder parts and the respiratory orifices are directed outwards." Where wounds thus infected are neglected death may take place, but not before a horrible condition has been reached. Even in this country death has occurred from an invasion of maggots,^ and a similar case was recorded in Paris in the year 1826. The end of the Emperor Galerius ^ and of Herod the Great and others, 1 "On Thursday, 25th June, died at Asbornby, Lines., John fage, a pauper, under circumstances truly singular. This man used to prefer to tramp the country rather than to stay in the parish workhouse, and subsisted on the pittance he obtained from door to door. He usually received bread and meat, and it was bis custom to deposit what he had not eaten between his shirt and skin. One day when he had a considerable portion of this provision in store he laid himself down in a field, and the day being very hot, the meat speedily became putrid, and was of course struck by the Hies. These not only pro- ceeded to devour the inanimate pieces of tlesh, but also literally to prey upon the living substance, and when the wretched man was accidentally found he was so eaten by the maggots that his death seemed inevitable, and, in fact, the man survived the operation of dressing his- wounds but a few hours." The date of this remarkable occurrence is not given, but Kirby adds: " In passing through this parish, in the spring of 1814, I inquired of the mail coachman whether he had heard of this story, and he said the fact was well known " (Kirby and Spence, Introduction to Entomology). A similar story is told by M. Aristide Roger of the death of the Parisian chiffonnier who having got drunk was found in a ditch outside the parish, still living, but with his features completely destroyed by the multitudes of blow-fly grubs feeding on him. In both these cases there were, no doubt, a number of sores, large or small, to permit entrance of the maggots, which could not otherwise penetrate the integument. ^ " His <leath was occasioned by a very painful and lingering disease. His body, swelled, by an intemperate course of life, to an unwieldy corpulence, was covered with ulcers and devoured by innumerable swarms of I those insects, which have given their name to a most I loathsome disease " (Gibbon, Roman Empire).MYIASIS 507 who according to old chronicles were " eaten by worms," was in all probability due to this cause. 3. Myiasis Narium, Conjunctivoe, Vaginae, etc. —Here also some diseased or dirty condition is necessary to allure the fly. The chief species found depositing their young in these situations are again for the most part blue-, grey-, and green-bottle flies. Of this latter genus the maggots of the species Lucilia hominovorax are the best known, and by far the most de- structive. In all cases where the nostrils, the ears, or the conjunctivae have been the seat of oviposition, great swelling, pain, and fever occur. The maggots may wander to the frontal sinuses, or may gain entrance to the middle ear, or cause perforation of the cornea. The larvse of Lucilia hominovorax (screw-worm) have the power of actually piercing through cartilages by means of their strong hooklets and the screwing movement of their body, and in the island of Cayenne, where the fly is best known to us, cases are very frequent and death far from uncommon. Severe mental symptoms may be caused by the disgusting nature of the malady when the maggots are found in the mouth or nose. The diagnosis of the condition is not difficult when an open wound is exposed to view, and where the possibility of the occurrence is known. But when the larvte are hidden in cavities of the body the inflammatory condition may be ascribed to other causes until the maggots themselves are seen. Thus Summa relates a case diagnosed as erysipelas of the face until a closer examination, which had been delayed on account of the horrible foetor, revealed a per- foration at the junction of the soft and hard palate in which numbers of maggots were lying. Injections of carbolic acid were ordered every half hour, the maggots were almost continuously removed all day by the patient's wife, yet the physician was able at one visit to take away fifty. The patient was convalescent in a few days. Treatment.—Mechanical removal is of course indicated, and should be performed diligently. The most efficient agent for dislodgment or killing the larvse, which are, as we have seen, extremely resistant to chemical agents, is chloro- form ; aq. chloroform of the B.P. being very eff'ective. Turpentine is valuable where it can be applied, and naphthalin, thymol, and infusion of tobacco have been found useful. Insect Stings and Bites. — Among insects which attack man from revenge or fear we find many members of the Hymenoptera, and of these the species most commonly met with in our country are bees and wasps. As a rule the sting of one of these insects causes no more serious eflPects than local pain and itching, accompanied by more or less swelling; but the effects are very variable, and it is not unusual to find general and much more serious symptoms resulting. Deaths from this cause are also frequently recorded. The patient is usually an adult in good health, often a particularly healthy man. The sting is implanted on the exposed hands or face. Toxic manifestations occur within ten minutes' time or less, and the sufferer is brought to the point of death, or actually dies, in about twenty-five minutes from the time when stung. The following symptoms occur in typical cases :—Congestion of head and neck, accom- panied by running from eyes and nose, in- creasing to cyanosis or deep lividity; swelling of throat and tongue (even though sting he on hand); slowing of pulse; embarrassment of heart and respiration ; great itching of skin or pain all over body, especially perhaps in abdo- men ; vomiting; purging; erythema, or other rash; syncope. Recovery is usually rapid if the patient survive these symptoms for an hour or two. In twenty-four or forty-eight hours he is well ; occasionally ill-health has resulted for some weeks or months. Septic or specific in- fection of the wound may occur in the process of stinging, and septic cellulitis or tetanus may result. Dr. Julius Athans records glycosuria and epilepsy occurring after an interval of re- spectively "a few weeks" and "nine months" from date of injury, due in both cases, he believes, to the poison of the insect. We do not yet know, in the case of a bee or wasp sting, what conditions determine on diff'erent occasions its greater or lesser toxicity. This does not depend on the patient's age, sex, previous health, nor on fear, though it may be aggravated by ill-health, or panic, or perhaps by idiosyncrasy. There is no evidence to show that the season or weather, or the food of the bee in question, has any modifying influence. It has been alleged that lethal results are due to the entrance of the poison immediately into a vein, but this will not account for the majority of cases. The immunity enjoyed by old bee-keepers is to some extent only apparent, and is in part due to their skill in handling, for every now and again one of the fraternity is brought to the verge of death by a single sting, although on a previous occasion the stings of fifty or a hundred bees may have caused him little trouble. This points clearly to the fact that the nature of the poison causing lethal and fatal results differs from the normal secretion of the bee. The symptoms above related are not produced by the natural secretion; it is more likely that the powerful irritant poisoning of the nervous system (very comparable to the effect of snake- bites) is caused by some substance of the nature of an animal alkaloid, and that this substance is present, either as the result of an admixture from without, or as a consequence of some dis-508 MYIASIS ordered action of the physiological processes of the bee.i Treatment in a mild case consists in carefully pushing out the sting so as not to squeeze the poison bag, and the immediate application of a weak solution of alkali, such as ammonia, soda, or lime. The application of some antiseptic, such as carbolic lotion, or formic aldehyde, or perman- ganate of potash, is desirable, both as a means of breaking up the poison and as a preventive of septic sequelae. In more severe cases very free stimulation is indicated, strychnine in large doses, and ether, hypodermically ; alcohol by the mouth freely; hypodermic injections of carbolic acid and permanganate of potash and cocaine locally. Tracheotomy may be necessary for oedema glottidis, especially if the sting be in the tongue or throat. Cases of poisoning by wild honey have been reported in i^merica and India. In one instance the lives of many persons were endangered, and two deaths actually occurred. The honey was subsequently found to be strongly impregnated with gelsemium. Jlosquitoes, Gnats, Gadflies, Household Insects, etc.—These insects have recently acquired a new importance in consequence of their relation to malaria. Mosquitoes are sometimes imported into this country in ships' cargoes and personal bag- gage, and may be met with in London hotels frequented by American travellers. Dr. Thin (Laricet, 2/81/398) reports two severe cases of mosquito bite in London. In one instance the appearance of the face in consequence of the bites was like confluent smallpox. In our own country and on the Continent, mosquitoes, gnats, gadflies, and many other species are sufficiently annoying, both by reason of their bites and stings and by their irritation when present in great numbers. In tropical countries and in the Arctic, travellers are subjected to great misery from the attacks of a thousand species of Diptera. Septic poisoning with more or less severe sequelfE has resulted from the bite of flies, as well as from the stings above mentioned. Very recently {Lancet, February 9, 1901) a probably unique case was published, where a swelling developed on the forearm at the site of the bite or sting of a "green fly." Five months later the indurated swelling was removed, and was shown by microscopical examination to be a typical epithelioma of the skin. When gnats or flies become numerous and troublesome in our houses, we can sometimes mitigate the nuisance by attacking their breed- ing-places—in the case of gnats, by cleaning ^ Calmette found that the poison of an individual snake varies in its activity, and is more virulent when the creature fasts. neglected cisterns or water-barrels, by intro- ducing fish into ponds, or pouring kerosene on the surface of collections of stagnant water; in the case of flies, by covering up or removing heaps of stable dung. Toads also may be found useful in this connection. In the open air, nets form the most useful protection against mosquitoes, and complete immunity from bites can be ensured by their use. Faiite de mieux, nets with a mesh of one centimetre, will be found useful; and open doors and windows may to a large extent be safeguarded with a mesh of even larger size, provided the light enters from this side of the room only. Various substances applied to the exposed parts of the skin will ward off' insects, even in Canadian, Norwegian, Arctic, etc. waters, where insect pests are innumerable and maddening, and these, though unpleasant, are gladly employed. The most trustworthy are:—Carbolic acid (best in solution in oil, 1-10 or 15, as it is of use only while some parts of the acid remains unevaporated by the heat of the skin, necessi- tating renewal at frequent intervals); paraffin, 3j. to Oij. (this is irritating to some skins when much used); clove oil or cinnamon oil, 5SS. to spermaceti ointment, gj.; cocoa-nut oil. These are all disagreeable prophylactics, but have been found preferable to the alternative plague of flies. A. weak infusion of Quassia chips (made in the cold) is said to be equally efficient, and would certainly be less unpleasant. Treatment.—Eau de Cologne, carbolic lotion, and formic aldehyde (formalin and formal, etc.) applied to the bite or sting are the best-known remedies, but common soap well rubbed in for a few minutes, followed by a stream of cold water, is a handy resource which will generally give great relief. Septic cellulitis may follow wounds caused by any insect. The bite of Cantharis (the Spanish fly) may be followed by blistering. Conjunctivitis and great irritation of respiratory passages may occur in the presence of a number of the living insects. Spiders in this country are not known to be hurtful to man by reason of the poison they secrete. The poisonous effects of tarantula bites have been enormously exaggerated. We have the authority of Gautier {Les Toxines), however, for stating that the malignant spidei'S of Elba, Corsica, Cura9oa, Madagascar, Venezuela, Russia, etc. can kill large animals and man. New Zealand possesses a poisonous spider which causes marked toxic effects, but a fatal result seldom if ever occurs. The symptoms and treatment are much the same as in the case of wasp and bee stings. Cases of septic infection and tetanus throughMYIASIS 509 the use of cobweb as a styptic are occasionally recorded. Within recent years an extract of spiders has been used as a remedy in malaria. Myriapoda, Scorpions, etc. — The sting of European varieties is comparatively harmless. In hot countries the sting may cause alarm- ing or fatal results, very similar to those de- scribed under bees and wasps. The poison seems to vary considerably in power. Severe symptoms, however, occur in a large proportion of cases. Treatment.—Ipecacuanha powder applied to the wound in form of a paste is the most widely known antidote. Chloroform stupes in addition will relieve the pain. The most eificient appli- cations for the relief of both pain and swelling are chloral, 3 parts; camphor, 1 part; menthol- camphor and similar combinations—the skin to be punctured with a needle and the remedies rubbed in. Hypodermic injection of cocaine, gr. \-\, is said to give instant relief to the pain and to prevent subsequent ill-effects. It is interesting to note that the ancient Persian treatment of scorpion stings consisted in "anointing the wound with the oil of these animals—extracted by frying." Ants.—Indigenous species may be regarded as inoffensive except when occasionally they overrun our houses. It is often difficult in these cases to localise and destroy the ant-hills. Abroad they often constitute a plague both by the frequency of their bites and stings, and by their power of penetration through any substance except metal. " Willesden patent paper " is said to be impervious to them. The " ants of visitation " {Atta cephalotes) are said by Kirby and Spence to be " so alarming and tremendous in their attacks, that if they enter the house in the night, the inhabitants are obliged to rise with all speed and run off in their shirts." Travellers in tropical countries protect them- selves when sleeping out of doors by a hair rope surrounding their sleeping - place. The ants, finding no secure hold on the long and loose hairs, slide or fall down, and try all night to find a less difficult place of entrance. The rope must be shaken each morning to dislodge any insects remaining in it, and replaced before dark. In this connection a curious case may be noted where post-mortem injuries, eventually found to be due to ants (staining and apparent bruising of skin), were attributed to ante- mortem violence. Hairy caterpillars and other cetaceous larvse are well known as causing skin irritation (urti- caria, etc.) by contact with the skin. The irri- tation, swelling, and itching may be extremely severe, and may spread far beyond the parts actually pierced or poisoned by the sharp hairs and acrid secretions of the caterpillar's cuticle. The occurrence of a number of cases of this kind in a boys' school has given rise to diffi- culty, on account of the resemblance to an infectious epidemic. Similar, though, as a rule, less severe effects are produced by certain hairy plants, such as the nettle. Primula obconica, arnica, mezereon, various species of rhus. In the glandular structures connected with the hairs, irritant substances have been isolated, " toxicodendric acid," etc. Treatment is to be applied by alkalies and local sedatives, and removal of the offending cause when discovered. In Indian forests, where the caterpillar Cnetho-campia processionea is abundant, cloths require to be tied over the mouth and nostrils, for if hairs are inhaled, oedema of the throat may ensue. Flies may act as Carriers of Infection.—This has been experimentally proved in the case of cholera. Observations have shown the presence of tubercle bacilli in the bodies and excreta of flies which have visited phthisical sputum ; anthrax has been traced to the bites of flies from diseased carcases, and the purulent oph- thalmia of Egypt is obviously transferred from eye to eye by the same agency. The list might be prolonged ; and it is clearly evident that the insanitary conditions of hot countries, together with the swarming insect life, must provide many illustrative instances. Syphilis is less likely to be propagated, since the parts affected are in general covered up. Father Damien attributed his leprosy to the inoculation by a fly of an abrasion of the scalp. Infected flies may be chopped up with sausage meat, and thus disseminate disease. It is stated that yellow fever can be trans- mitted by mosquitoes which have bitten a patient on the third to sixth day (inclusive) of the disease, and that in the case of one or two bites, only a benign form is transmitted. Preventive inoculation by this method has been suggested. MylabriS.—The dried beetle Mylabris phalerata; it has the same action and uses as Cantharides (q.v.), and it contains cantharidin. It is one of the drugs of the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia, and there are five official preparations (all for external use) : (1) Acetum Mylabridis; (2) Emplastrum Calefaciens Mylabridis ; (3) Ernplastrum Myla- bridis ; (4) Liquor Epispasticus Mylabridis; and (5) Unguentum Mylabridis. It is some- times known as Chinese blistering fly. MylO-. — In compound words mylo- (Gr. /xvAt?, a mill or nether grindstone) means re- lating to the molar (or grinding) teeth ; e.g. myloglossus (a muscle attached to the angle of the lower jaw), mylohyoid (a mviscle attached to the hyoid bone and lower jaw), mylopharyn- geus, etc.MYO- 510 Myo-a—In compound words myo- (Gr. /x5s, a muscle) means relating to a muscle. Myobla,St.—An immature muscle fibre. MyOCa,rclitiS.—Inflammation of the mus- cular substance {myocardium) of the heart. See Heart, Affections of Myocardium and Endo- cardium ; Kheumatism, Acute {Symptoms and Course, Myocarditis); Typhoid Fever {Compli- cations and SequelcE, Myocardium). Myocele.—The protrusion of a muscle through its sheath which has been ruptured. Myochroine. See Myoh^matin. Myoclonus.—Clonic spasm or convulsive contractions of a muscle or group of muscles. See Spasm {Paramyoclonus Multiplex) ; Chorea {Diagnosis). Myoclonia,.—A disease characterised by clonic muscular spasm or myoclonus. MyOCtonine.—A poisonous alkaloid, C27H3qN20c^, resembling curara, obtained from Aconit'um lycoctonum. Myocyte.—A muscle cell. See Physio- logy', Tissues {Muscle). Myodia.Sta,SiS.—Separation of the ends or of parallel strands of a muscle. Myodynia,. — Pain in the muscles. See Muscles, Diseases of. Myofibroma.—A tumour composed of muscular and fibrous tissue, e.g. a " fibroid" tumour of the uterus. See Tumours {Connec- tive Tissue Type, Myomata); Uterus, Non- malignant Tumours {Fibroids). Myofibrosis.—An increase in the con- nective tissue lying between the muscular bundles, e.g. in the wall of the heart. MyOg'enesiS.—The production of mus- cular tissue. Myog^enous or Myog'enic. — Re lating to muscle or developed from muscle, e.g. the myogenic movements of the intestine. See Physiology, Food and Digestion {Intestinal Digestion). Myoglobulin. — A globulin found in muscle ; there are three in all—Myoglohulin, Myosinogen, and Paramyosinogen. See Physio- logy, Tissues {Muscle). MyOg^raph.—An instrument for showing graphically the phases of muscular contraction and relaxation; the tracing produced is called a myogram. Myohsematin. — Muscle pigment or myochrome; a histohgematin allied to hsemo- globin. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Colour of); Pigments of the Body and Ex- creta {Hcemoglohin and its Derivatives). M yO i d.—Resembling muscular tissue. See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle). Myoidema.—The production of a wheal or ridge in a muscle when it is sharply tapped; myotatic irritability ; it is seen in conditions of considerable exhaustion. See Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, KennarCs Sign). Myokymia.—Fibrillary quivering or twitching of muscle, persistent but without loss of power. Myolemma. —The sheath of a striated muscle fibre; sarcolemma. Myolipoma.—A myomatous tumour containing fat. MyolOg'y. — The science which treats of muscles, their anatomy, physiology, and pathology. Myoma. — A tumour composed of un- striped muscular tissue (leiomyoma), or, less often, of striped muscle {rhabdomyoma). See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Tumours); Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Fibroids); Ovaries, Dis- eases OF {Myomata); Peritoneum, Tumours of ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis {Differential Dia- gnosis) ; Pregnancy, Hemorrhage {From Tu- mours, Myomata); Tumours {Connective Tissue, Myomata); Tumours of the Skin {Myoma Multi- plex Cutis) ; Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours of {Fibroids). Myomalacia.—A degenerative process characterised by softening of muscle, e.g. of the heart {myomalacia cordis). Myomectomy.—The operation of ex- cision of a myoma, e.g. of the uterus. See Uterus, Non-malignant Tumours {Treatment of Fibroids, Abdominal Myomectomy). Myometrium.—The uterine muscu- lature, inflammation of which constitutes myometritis. See Uterus, Inflammations of. Myooedema. See Myoidema. MyopalmuS.—Muscular twitching. Myopathy.—Any morbid condition of the muscles, or, more particularly, a disease characterised by atrophy (or hypertrophy) of the muscles with slow but progressive loss of power, without fibrillary twitchings and without qualitative electrical change, and by a peculiar physiognomy or facies {myopathic fades). See Muscles, Diseases op {Idiopathic Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy). Myopia.—Short sight, usually produced511 MYOPIA by the antero-posterior axis of the eye-ball being too long for the focal length of the eye; individuals suffering from this visual defect have a habit of partially closing the eyelids to improve their sight (Gr. /j.v<d, I shut, and wij/, the eye). See Asthenopia (^Refractive); Choroid, Diseases of {Myopic choroiditis); Ocular Muscles, Affections of {Paralysis, Etiology); Refraction {Myopia); Rbtinoscopy {Myopia); Vision, Field of. MyopiesiS.—Massage of the muscles. MyOpIeglSLm—Muscular paralysis. MyoporthosiS. — The correction of myopia (Gr. jjLvwij/, short-sighted, and 6p66s, straight). Myorrhaphy.—The union (by suturing) of separated muscular strands {e.g. of the recti abdominis in ventral hernia). Myorrhexis.—Tearing of muscle. Myosin.—A proteid substance (globulin) formed by the clotting of myosinogen (another globulin) in the muscle substance after death, and leading to the production of rigor mortis See Physiology, Tissues {Muscle, Chemistry of). Myosinogen. See Myosin. MyOSiS.—Contraction, e.g. of the pupil. See Pupil {Reflex). Myositis.—Inflammation of muscle. See Chest-Wall, Affections of {Affections of Muscles of Chest); Hemoglobinuria {In Acute Myositis); Muscles, Diseases op {Inflammatory Diseases, Polymyositis, Neuromyositis, etc.); New-born Infant {Hcsmatoma of Sterno-Mastoid); Rheu- matism, Chronic {Chronic Myositis); Rheuma- tism, Chronic {Muscular Rheumatism); Syphilis ( Visceral Syphilis, Muscles and Tendons). Myositis Ossificans.—A variety of myositis characterised by the formation of os- seous deposits in the muscles; it may follow an injury {myositis ossificans traumatica) and it may involve one muscle after another {myositis ossificans progressiva). Myospasm. See Cramp. MyOStromin.—An insoluble proteid of muscle. See Physiology, Tissues {Chemistry of Muscle). MyOSUruS.—A genus of the Ranun- culaceae, of which the mousetail {Myosurus Minimus) was once in the Pharmacopoeia (as an astringent). Myotatic irritability.—A state of tension of the muscle showing itself in the phenomena known as tendon reflexes. See Paralysis {Spastic, Myotatic Irritability); Pneumonia, Clinical {Physical Signs, Myotatic Irritability of Pectoral Muscles); Lung, Tuber- culosis of {Symptoms). Myotenotomy.—The surgical division of muscles and tendons. See Deformities. Myotics.—Drugs which cause myosis or contraction of the pupil, e.g. pilocarpine, opium, physostigmine, and anaesthetics. See Glaucoma {Treatment, Myotics). Myotome.—A tenotomy knife ; also (in Embryology, q.v.) the muscular part of a mesoblastic segment (which consists of myotome, sclerotome, and dermatome). Myotomy.—Section of a muscle. Myotonia or Myotonus.—Muscu- lar tone, tension, or spasm, e.g. in myotonia congenita (Thomsen's disease) or in myotonia acquista. See Muscles, Diseases of {Myotonia Congenita). Myriachit.—Saltatory spasm, Latah, or "Jumpers." ,S'ee Latah. Myriapoda. See Myiasis {Insect Stings and Bites, Myriapioda). Myrici n.—A constituent of wax, consisting mostly of palmitate of myricyl (CjQHgj.Cj^HgjOg). Myricyl Alcohol.—An alcohol ob tained from beeswax (melissyl palmitate), having the formula C3QHgjOH ; melissyl alcohol. Myringitis.—Inflammation of the tym- panic membrane. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane {Inflammation). Myringodectomy or Myringec- tomy.—Excision of the tympanic membrane (in whole or in part). MyringOmyCOSiS.—Mycotic disease of the tympanic membrane; it is due to a fungus {Aspeij^illus). Myringoplasty.—A plastic or repara- tive operation on the membrana tympani. See Ear, Affections of Tympanic Membrane. Myringotomy.—Incision of the mem- brana tympani, the instrument used being termed a myringotome. Myristica. See Nutmeg. MyristiC Acid. — A monobasic acid (CjgHjy.CO.OH) found in oil of nutmeg, cocoa- nut oil, etc. Myristicene.—A hydrocarbon (Ci(,Hjg) found in oil of nutmeg. MyristiCOl.—An oily substance (CjgHigO) found in oil of nutmeg.MYEISTIN 512 Myristin. — A fat' contained in oil of nutmeg ; glyceryl myristate {C^R^iCi^U^^O^)^). Myrobalanum. —The dried fruits of Terminalia Chebulia or chebulic myrobalans, a driig contained in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; it contains tannin and is used for the same pur- poses as tannin, in doses of J to 1 drachm of the powder. There are two preparations for ex- ternal use, the Unguentum Myrobalani and the Unguentum Myrobalani cum Opio. My rosin.—An enzyme found in mustard seeds ; when moistened it converts the glucoside sinalbin into acrinyl isothiocyanate, glucose, and sinapin sulphate. See Mustard. Myrrh.—A gum-resin obtained from the stem of Commiphora myrrha, a tree of Arabia. It occurs in irregularly formed reddish-brown tears, and contains a resin, myrrhin, and myrrhol, a volatile oil. Dose—10-30 grs. Preparations —1. Tinctura Myrrhte. Dose—^-13. 2. Pilula aloes et Myrrhse, 1 in 4|. Dose—4-8 grs. Myrrh is also contained in Pilula Galbani Com- posita, Pilula Rhei Composita, Mistura Ferri Composita, and Decoctum Aloes Compositum. Myrrh is used occasionally for its antiseptic properties as an application to tender gums and to sore throats. In the later stages of bronchitis it is sometimes prescribed as an ingredient of cough mixtures. Its presence in aperient pills and mixtures depends on its carminative eiTects. It may be of service in the treatment of leucor- rhoea and cystitis, and has been recommended as an emmenagogue. MyrtiformiS.—Having the shape of the myrtle leaf or myrtle berry, e.g. the carunculse myrtiformes or hymeneal remains. Myrtle.—The leaves of the common myrtle {Myi'tus communis) contain an oil (myrtol) which has been used as an antiseptic in bronchitis, as have also the leaves of Myrtus cheJcen. MySOphobia.—Abnormal fear of dirt and of coming in contact with it (Gr. ftva-o^, defilement). See Neurasthenia (Symptomato- logy). Mythomania. —• Inveracity occurring as a form of insanity. MytiiOtOXism.—The morbid entity due to poisoning with shell-fish (Gr./xurtAos, a mussel), the active agent being the ptomaine mytilotoxin (CgHj::,N0.2). See Snake-Bites and Poisonous Fishes (Fish, Mussels). Myxasthenia.—Deficient secretion of mucus or inability to secrete mucus. MyXO-.—In compound words myxo- (Gr. ^u'la, mucus or phlegm) means mucoid or refen-ing to mucus; e.g. a myxochondroma (tumour containing mucous and cartilaginous tissue), a myxoneuroma, and a myxocystoma, etc. Myxococcidium Steg-omyise.— The so-called protozoan parasite found in the bodies of Stegomyia fasciata, the insect which is believed to transmit the poison of yellow fever. See Yellow Fever (Virus of). Myxoedema. See Thyroid Gland, Medical [iMyxoedema). See also Acromegaly [Definition and History); Alopecia {Prema- ture); Cretinism {Congenital Myxoedema); Hand {Appearances in Certain Diseases, Myxoedema); Insanity, Etiology of {Autotoxic); Pharynx, Chronic Pharyngitis {A Complication of Myx- oedema) ; Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence); Unconsciousness {Autointoxica- tions). Myxofibroma.—A fibroid or fibroma which shows myxomatous or mucoid degenera- tion. See Bladder, Injuries and Diseases {Tumours); Bone, Diseases of {Tumours, Myxoma); Orbit, Diseases of (Myxoma); Pregnancy, Ovum and Decidua (Myxoma Fibrosum); Pregnancy, Diseases of Placenta (Tumours, Myxofibroma); Uterus, Non-malig- nant Tumours op (Fibroids, Degenerations of). Myxoma.—A neoplasm consisting of mucoid tissue, resembling the jelly of Wharton ; it may occur in the spinal cord. See Myxo- fibroma and cross-references. Myxoneurosis.—A functional malady or neurosis in which there is excessive secretion of mucus, e.g. myxoneurosis intestinalis (mucous or membranous colitis). MyXOpodS.—The endocorpuscular para- sites or amoebulcB of malaria. See Malaria (Parasitology). Myxosarcoma. See Tumours (Sar- comata). MyxOSporidia. See Parasites (Pro- tozoa). N-Rays. See Blondlot Rays. Nabothian Cysts or Follicles.— Retention cysts of the cervix uteri; the race- mose mucous glands of the cervix become dis- tended with secretion and are sometimes pedun- culated ; ovula Nabothi. Martinus Naboth published his work De Sterilitate in 1707. " NaCkengrube." — The slight con- cavity on the back of the embryo in the region of the future neck. See Embryology (Embryo in Fifth and Sixth Weeks).513 NAEGELE'S OBLIQUITY Naeg-el6's Obliquity.—The lateral obliquity of the foetal head when it enters the true pelvis of the mother in labour, which is shown in the fact that the parietal bone which is to the front is at a lower level than the parietal bone which lies posteriorly; it is well marked in labour in the flat pelvis. See Labour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Pelvic Deformities, Contracted Pelvis). Naegele'S Pelvis.—The unilaterally or oblii|uely contracted pelvis : it is generally due to premature anchylosis of the sacro-iliac syn- chondrosis of one side. See Labour, Precipi- tate and Prolonged [Pelvic Deformities, Rarer Forms). NsevO-.—In compound words naivo- (Lat. ncevus, a mole) means relating to or originating in a nsevus, mother's mark, or mole, e.g. nmvo- carcinoma, noevo-lipoTna, etc. NsevUS. See Tumours {Dermoids, Moles). See also Brain, Surgery of [Meningocele, Dia- gnosis) ; Capillaries, Diseases of {Congenital Angioma); Conjunctiva, Diseases of {Con- genital Anomalies, NcBvi); Electricity ; Elec- trolysis {In Angioma); Mammary Gland, Dis- eases of {Fatty Tumours, Nmvo-lipomata); Mouth, Diseases op {Vascular Tumours of Lips); Neck, Region of {Tumours, Nmvi); Palate {Tumours); Peritoneum, Tumours of {Noivi); Pregnancy, Intra-uterine Diseases {Pigmentary Anomalies of Skin); Scrotum and Testicle, Diseases of {Tumours of Scrotum); Skin, Pigmentary Affections of {Neoplastic); Tongue {Innocent Tumours, Angiomata); Tu- mours of the Skin {Beiiign, Ncevi). Na.fta,la.n. — A substance composed of Russian naphtha and hard soap; it is used as an antiseptic and disinfecting application in skin diseases, etc. Na.g'a.na,.—Tsetse fly disease ; a malady occurring in animals in Central, East, and South Africa, and transmitted by the tsetse fly. See Parasites {Protozoa, Trypanosoma Brucei). Na.g'COnda.. See Balneology {India). Na.il-Bitingf. See Nails, Affections of {Injuries). Nails, Affections of the. Atrophy ...... 513 Hypertrophy. . . . . .513 Alterations in Curvature . .513 White Spots, etc. . . . . .514 Congenital Defects . . . .514 Hereditary Defects . . . .514 Injuries— Occupation Results . . . .515 In General Diseases . . . .515 In Skin Diseases . . . . .515 In Nervous Diseases . . . .517 vol. VI In Syphilis 517 Parasitic Affections . . . .518 Ingrowing Toe-Nail . . . .518 Anomalous and Obscure Affections . 519 Treatment . . . . . .520 See also Skin, Anatomy and Physiology {Nails); Skin, Parasites {Examination for Parasites, Nails) ; Syphilis {Affections of Nails, Onychia, etc.); Thyroid Gland, Medical {Exophthalmic Goitre, Nails in). As the scope of this article is mainly clinical and practical, a knowledge of the anatomy, physiology, and development of the nails on the part of the reader will be assumed. The point to be borne in mind is that the nails are specialised portions of the general integument or skin, and are liable to the same pathological processes. The alterations met with affect the nails in their texture, shape, and colour. Usually all these modifications are present at the same time in varying degrees. In rare cases the nails may be much thinner and softer than usual {atrophy), being sometimes reduced to a mere film (Wilson). Or, again, they may be very brittle, splitting and crumbling as the result of slight injuries or when trimmed {onychorrliexis). Transverse furrows are of frequent occurrence, and the atrophic changes often give rise to a pitted worm-eaten appear- ance. On the other hand, there may be hypertrophy of the hard nail substance {onychauxis). It is necessary here to distinguish true hypertrophy from the claw- and horn-like formations {onycho- gryphosis—more correctly onchogryposis), which are really keratomata of the nail-bed, and in no sense a primary change of the nail proper. The subject of onychogryposis was first fully investi- gated hy Virchow. In this condition the over- growth is very marked, the nail becoming more or less discoloured, yellowish brown, or dirty looking; and assuming various shapes, some- times looking like a great claw, at others being twisted like a ram's horn. The surface of the nails is ridged and irregular, and beneath them there are soft, dirty, evil-smelling masses. Onychogryposis has been observed in a variety of conditions, which will be touched upon further on. Excessive overgrowth frequently occurs in old and bedridden people, especially affecting the big toes. A true hypertrophy of the nail takes place in acromegaly. The curvature of the nails over the ends of the fingers may be exaggerated, without hyper- trophy or other change in the nail substance, and quite apart from clubbing. As far as shape is concerned the nails may be flattened, or depressed and concave on the surface {spoon- nails—koilonychia). The nails may also vary greatly in length breadth, aiid so forth.NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 514 Or, again, the normal longitudinal ribbing, corresponding to the lidges of the nail-bed, may be accentuated or abnormally developed. In some instances there is a markedly raised median longitudinal ridge, the nail sloping away laterally on either side, like the roof of a house or a keel. This median ridge may divide towards the distal end, giving rise to a Y-shaped appearance. This has been observed in all the finger-nails of a patient otherwise well. When the skin at the root of the nail coalesces with the latter and advances with its growth, a condition which goes by the name of pterygium unguis is attained. The opposite change to this is very rare, viz., recession with exposure of the nail root {jicus unguium). In cases where the nail has been badly injured it is gradually shed, a new nail mean- while slowly forming beneath. White spots (leuconychia vel leucopathia 2yunctata—-flores unguium, etc.) are often met with, especially in children or individuals with delicate nails, as a result of slight injuries. In rare cases transverse white bands have been met with (leu-conychia striata), or the leuco- nychia may be complete, the whole of the nail being affected {leuconychia totalis). In the latter the colour varies from an opaque, dead chalky white to a bluish-white. In some of the patients the etiology was obscure; in others the change was associated with various morbid conditions. In the case under Krieg and AVeber some of the nails also exhibited the spoon-like deformity referred to above. As to the cause of the whiteness, it has been found to be due to air-bubbles finding their way into the interstices between the nail-layers, but Unna points out that this must be looked upon as a secondary phenomenon. In his opinion the main pathological feature is an abnormal soft- ness, with swelling, of the nail-cells. This softness was very obvious in a case under his observation. In this patient the toe-nails were normal, but some of the hairs were white (leucotrichia). The finger-nails are more usually aff"ected ; hut in Krieg and Weber's case the toe- nails were also involved, but to a less degree. Unna also describes another condition {scleronychia), in which the nails, from behind forwards are thickened, inelastic, hard, rough, and opaque, and of a yellowish-grey tint. This appears to be a pure nail disease, as the skin surrounding the nails and elsewhere about the body is quite healthy. Moreover, no consti- tutional cause can be discovered to account for the nail-changes (see further on, section xii.. Anomalous and Obscure Affections of the Nails). Nails may also appear in the wrong place, at times at the ends of amputation stumps. In some cases of fracture of the long bones, the nails have been arrested in their growth. The aff"ections of the nails as they occur in practice will now be reviewed, together with rare conditions which may at any time come under observation. Various classifications have been suggested from time to come. In this place, however, the subject will be dealt with under general headings, a scheme which it is hoped will be foiind more practically useful for reference, although not strictly scientific. The ideal classification founded on Etiology is yet to seek. I. Congenital.—Absence of the nails {ano- nychia congenita) is rarely met with, bvit cases have been recorded in which there was no trace of finger- and toe-nails at birth (see under section v. for an interesting case of the kind). At other times the nails may be extremely rudimentary, and more than one child in the same family may exhibit this anomaly. Various congenital malformations, such as supernumerary fingers and so forth, need not detain us. But brief reference to the following case may be made here, viz., an enlarged terminal phalanx, with an enlarged nail present- ing a marked median longitudinal ridge, has been observed, indicating apparently a digital bifurcation (or C?) syndactylia). Brittle nails have also been recorded {onychorrhexis). For a complete account of congenital malformations the reader is referred to Heller's Monograph. Congenital pemphigus {epidermolysis bullosa) is dealt with in section v., and congenital syphilis in section ix. II. Heredity.—Various nail conditions have been found to occur in several members and generations of one family. White, opaque, longitudinally striated nails of the fingers and toes (? onychia totalis); the grandfather was said to have had white spots only. Family leucopathia of nails has also been observed by Lawrence. D. W. Montgomery has seen hereditary shedding of the nails. NicoUe and Halipre found nail-changes running through six generations, no less than thirty-six members of the family being affected. The nails were more or less longitudinally ribbed, yellowish, flaky, and brittle; lateral ulcerations also occurred leading to the shed- ding of the affected nail. Mental diseases (the original patient was an idiot), hysteria, and so forth also ran in the family. An interesting point was that the hair was concurrently affected; it was thin, whitish, and easily pulled out. Correlation of growth, though liable to exceptions, is well known, and in a general way good, sound nails will be found going with sound teeth and strong hair. I have observed brittle nails associated with absence of the uterus in a young woman of eighteen. Her skin was dry {xeroderma), and there was little hair about the pubes ; but the teeth were very good, and the hair of the scalp plentiful (see also515 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE Radcliffe-Crockei-'s Congenital Atrophy of Skin Case, section v.). Spooning of the nails {koilonychia) has also been found in several members of one family. The finger-nails, and toe-nails too but to a less extent, were concave from before backwards in a woman aged forty, and the deformity was stated to exist in her brothers and sisters; her father, his brothers and sisters; and also her paternal grandfather. As to the nails in psoriasis and epidermolysis bullosa, see section v. III. Injuries. —■ In this connection it is necessary to consider not only the nail proper, but also the matrix and nail-bed, with blood- vessels and nerves, in short the nail-organ, as it has been called. This remark applies to diseases of the nail generally. Crushes and blows leading to sub-ungual hsemorrhages may result in the shedding of the nail, followed by a slow regeneration. Cuts with sharp instruments through the nail may give rise to permanent ridges. When the root of the nail has been involved, the skin has been observed to coalesce with the nail, with a permanent irregular pterygium unguis- like condition. The habit of biting the root of the nail, met with in neurotic individuals, results in exag- gerated longitudinal ribbing, brittleness, trans- verse depressions and irregular protuberances, or loss of nail with regeneration. The thumb- nails are those usually involved, but several or all the finger-nails may be more or less affected. In such cases, too, the nails are discoloured, yellowish, or dirty-looking. HcBviorrhage into the nail itself has been •observed as a result of injuries. Runtgen Rays — The effects of the X-rays may be included under Injuries. Individuals habitually using and demonstrating the rays frequently present changes in the finger-nails. In a case which came under my notice all the nails, except those of the thumbs, were irregu- lar, rough, and transversely furrowed. The condition is the result of the dermatitis induced by the rays, and when the latter is marked and recurrent the changes in the nails may be per- manent. In mild cases the nails are stated to have slowly become normal again. Occupation.—Various trades are inimical to the nails. Characteristic discolorations are seen in French-polishers, with other nutritional changes, as a sequence of the irritant dermatitis from which such workers suffer. In laundresses, housewives, barmaids, and others having their hands much in water or soda solutions, the nails become thin, irregular, brittle, and so forth. Lithographers, who use nitric acid, have rough, .discoloured, and painful nails. Rayer has ob- served a recession of the skin at the root of the nails in curriers (iicus nnguiuni). (See also section v. under Eczema.) Manicurists use a varnish which I have seen lead to redness and inflammation of the skin about the root of the nails, the latter becoming soft and brittle. Among injuries, damage to the nails arising from heat and cold must also be mentioned. Splinters under the nails may sometimes lead to permanent deformities. I have also seen the nails greatly altered, and some of them practically destroyed from the in- discriminate therapeutic application of caustics in childhood. IV. General Diseases.—The nails may be variously modified in a number of diseases. The curvature associated with clubbing of the finger-ends in phthisis is well known. A similar condition, with cyanosis, occurs in congenital malformation of the heart (patent " undefended space "). In diabetes mellitus shedding of the nails has been observed, and this quite apart from diabetic gangrene. Subungual hemorrhages occur in scurvy. In ancemia (chlorosis), the pallor of the nails is sometimes very marked. There is no dividing line to show a lunula. This is a blood condition, analogous to the pale conjunctivae, skin, and mucous membranes. It must not be confused with leuconychia totalis, which it very much looks like at first sight. Atrophy and brittleness of the nails have been seen in association with osteo-arthritis. The nails have been shed in enteric fever. It has been stated that reedy nails {i.e. marked longitudinal ridges) are significant of gout. I have certainly seen this condition where there was no gout; and, where gout was present, I found the patient had been in the habit for years of biting the skin at the root of the nails, sometimes to the quick. The fact is, this longitudinal striation increases with age. In young children the nails are normally smooth, but in old people ribbing is the rule. Changes in the nails may be found associated with a number of other complaints, such as rheumatic fever and so forth, but these cannot be dealt with at further length in this place. One interesting fact in connection with all prostrating illnesses is the transverse depression left as a memorial in the thumb-nails, for they show it best. This furrow slowly grows out in time, but its presence is an indication. By measurements, added to the knowledge of the average growth of nail, an approximate estimate of the time that has elapsed since an illness can be arrived at. A succession of alternate wavy ridges and furrows would point to recurrences and relapses.. V. Diseases of the Skin, including the Acute Exanthemata. —The latter diseases have been included in this group, as the nails in them become involved by continuity or proximity of the morbid changes occurring in the skin. TheyNAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 516 will be dealt with first and cleared out of the way. They are practically limited to two, viz., smallpox and scarlatina. As to the former, when pustules form about the nails, various changes may result. They may become rough, uneven, discoloured, or they may be shed and not regenerate. Locke, who was a medical man as well as a philosopher, refers to a condition of onychogryphosis as a sequence of variola. Papules may develop under the nail. In scarlatina, shedding of the nails and trans- verse furrows have also been observed. Villaret, who records his own case, lost his finger- and toe-nails after an attack of scarlet fever, new nails gradually replacing the old ones in from three to six months. Among diseases of the skin eczema of the hands and feet is one of the most common causes of alterations of the nails, especially when repeated attacks occur. In this group the so- called trade eczemas and itches find their place (barmaid's, bricklayer's itch, and so forth); they are now more usually alluded to under the heading of irritant dermatitis. Among such irritant causes arsenic must be mentioned. When this agent was used to preserve bodies for dissecting purposes, inflammation of the fingers and nail - matrices was of frequent occurrence among medical students. In eczema the nail-changes observed vary greatly — thickening, thinning, pitting, dirty yellowish-brown discolorations, furrows, brittle- ness with splitting, and so forth. In severe, long-standing cases, associated with depression or mental stress, onycJiogryphosis may occur and prove very troublesome. Or, again, the nails may be reduced to mere horny, shapeless excrescences. In some patients more or less spooning may result, or the nail proper may be raised by subungual hyperkeratosis. Hyperidrosis of the hands and feet is fre- quently found in eczematous conditions of the extremities. When the former has been of long standing, I have seen the nails thickened, with longitudinal ridges and transverse furrows and protuberances. The association of hyperidrosis and keratosis is also well known : here again nail-changes occur. It is not uncommon to find the nails involved in psoriasis, either alone, which is rare, or with evidence of the disease in other parts of the body, which is usual. The changes in the nails vary in character, sometimes slight pitting only being present. In other cases the nails are thickened and discoloured, or onychogryphosis may occur. A common appearance is the loosening of the nail at the sides of its free border; it may be limited to the corners, but frequently it extends towards the root, down the sides of the nail, or the whole or the free border may be affected, more or less of the distal part of the nail being separated from its bed. One or more nails may be involved. Hutchinson considers the changes just referred to are characteristic of psoriasis ; but Radcliffe-Crocker does not agree with him on that point. The latter observer has seen detachment of the nail down the sides where there was no evidence of psoriasis. I have examined the nails in a nvimber of psoriasis cases, and I have met with a variety of changes. The gradual detach- ment of the nail from its bed, from the free edge towards the lunula, I have seen become more marked as the generalised skin eruption improved. Papules may develop under the nails. In pityriasis rubra, one of the few universal diseases of the skin, which sometimes supervenes on a generalised psoriasis or eczema, nail-changes are constant—varying, of course, in degree according to the duration and acuteness of the inflammatory condition. Thickening, transverse furrows and ridges, shedding, and so forth, are observed. Similar changes occur in pemphigus foliaceus, which also involves the whole of the body. The nails are sometimes affected in recurrent desquamative scarlatiniform dermatitis, and in the earliest recorded case the nails were all thrown off, new ones taking their place in about six months. When scrofuloderma occurs on the fingers roinid the nails, the latter may be elongated, with increased curvature, over the finger-ends, transversely ridged, uneven, dirty, and dis- coloured, with a tendency to onychogryposis. In leprosy various alterations of the nails are observed. They are brittle, furrowed, reduced to amorphous horny masses, or they may come away entirely on some of the toes and fingers. The shedding of the big toe-nail may result apparently from the formation of a bulla about its root. I have also noted symmetrical longitudinal ridging of the two ring finger-nails. The nails are always affected in epidermolysis bidlosa (hereditaria), sometimes called congenital pemphigus. They may be completely destroyed or reduced to small liorny pegs. In other cases the nail may become separated from its bed, with thickening and also accumulation of dirty epithelial masses beneath, and this quite apart, apparently, from the occurrence of bullae about the nail-roots. Radcliffe-Crocker has recorded an unusual case of congenital atrophy of the skin, several features of which are of interest. The patient was a girl, aged five, born at full term with neither hair nor nails, but the latter began to grow a week after birth. The teeth, which appeared at the usual time, were sound and good. All the finger-nails and the big toe-nails were discoloured and almost black for about two-thirds of their length. In a case of acanthosis nigricans the patient developed white transverse bands in nearly all517 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE the finger-nails, as a result, apparently, of an intercurrent illness. The nails may be shed or altered in their nutrition in acute generalised alopecia (alopecia totalis vel universalis neurotica). Stone has described annual shedding of the skin and nails in a man of fifty. This had occurred regularly for several years. Nail-changes have been noted in a number of other skin diseases, such as ptemphigus, dermatitis herpetiformis, sclerodactylia (sclero- derma), pityriasis rubra pilaris, and so forth. For further particulars the reader is referred to these conditions in other parts of the E71- cyclopedia. One point to remember is that different causes may lead to tlie same kind of nail-change, and various appearances in the nails may depend on one and the same disease. The continuity of the tissues should be borne in mind : the nails are part and parcel of the general integument. {Pellagra. See section xv.) VI. Diseases of the Nervous System.— Nerves. — As a result of injuries (gun-shot wounds, division, etc.) and disease (neuritis) of the peripheral nerves, nail-changes have been noted in association with glossy skin and muscular atrophy, such as increased curving, brittleness, furrows, atrophy, hypertrophy, onychogryposis, and even shedding. The nails may also be altered in the condition known as erythromelalgia (Weir Mitchell), which is included here, although there is still disagree- ment as to its exact etiology and pathology. Spinal Cord.—Various changes in the nails have been noted in tabes dorsalis, myelitis, syringomyelia (see also section viii., Morvan's disease), and so forth. Subungual hcemorrhages, followed by repeated shedding of the big toe-nails, have been seen to occur in disseminated sclerosis and especially in tabes. In these cases the big toe-nails were symmetrically affected, but not simultaneously ; they were rapidly replaced. Brain, including Insanity. — Many observers have called attention to alterations in the nails in general paralysis, epilepsy, and so forth. Mental Shocks.—Cases are on record where shock, great fright, and so forth have been followed by the shedding of the nails. VII. Onychia Maligna (Wardrop — onyxis des scrofuleux). — Under this name Wardrop described a condition which commenced with marked swelling of a deep red colour of the soft parts at the root of the nail. Ulceration of the soft parts, with a thin ichorous discharge, occurs, leading to tumefaction about the end of the affected toe or finger. The nail loses its natural colour, its growth is interrupted, and in some places appears to have little connection with the soft parts. The pain is sometimes very great, but it may be absent. The big toes and thumb are most frequently affected, the patients being usually young. This con- dition is scrofulous in nature. It is uncommon, and there is no doubt that it has been confused with syphilitic perionychia (see section ix.). VIII. AVhitlows are a common cause of mal- formation and destruction of the nail. They may occur under the nail, or at its root or sides. Severe, neglected whitlows of the pulp of the finger, leading to destruction of the terminal phalanx, will naturally affect the nail in its shape and texture. Among the changes I have noted as a result of a whitlow at the root of a nail, are ir- regular growth, with transverse wavy ridges and furrows, brittleness, and splitting when trimmed. Or a thickened median longitudinal ridge may form, with an indentation at the free end. Or, again, the nail may be slowly cast off, a new nail gradually taking its place. In some cases recurrent superficial pustula- tion (irritation of thimble, etc.) may eventu- ally give rise to longitudinal striations, pro- tuberances, and so forth. In a case of this kind, going on for a year, about the root of some of the finger-nails, the latter had either been shed or had shelled off in flakes. The affected nails were brownish-yellow, thickened, with transverse furrows. The patient also suffered from Raynaud's disease (local syncope and asphyxia of several fingers), and the nails, which were not liable to the recurrent gather- ings, were pitted, furrowed, and ribbed, with white spots; one nail presented a crescentic white band near the free end, with concavity forwards (leuconychia). Recurrent punctate suppuration in the nail- bed, usually affecting one finger, occurs in children—frequently, according to Hutchinson. Morvan's disease (syringomyelia) may be in- cluded in this group. In this condition whit- lows, painless in the great majority of cases, occur for years about the finger-ends. The nails may be shed or altered in various ways. IX. Syphilis (psoriasis unguium is a term sometimes improperly used for syphilis of the nail). When the primary chancre occurs about the nail, the latter may be destroyed to a greater or less extent, or become permanently deformed, with irregular ridges and furrows, discoloured, and brittle, the more so as the syphilitic nature of the sore is often at first and for some time quite overlooked. The pain is described as being very severe, and this frequently leads to the erroneous diagnosis of whitlow. In the course of syphilis, papules may appear under the nails. Various changes have been observed, such as thinning and splitting ; or the surface may become furrowed and discoloured, with superficial pitting and erosins {onychia syphilitica). A more important condition is syphiliticNAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 518 perionychia. The rash may affect the neigh- bourhood of the nails, thus leading to disturb- ances in their nutrition; or they may become affected by the extension of a tertiary palmar syphilide. When ulceration with secretion of pus occurs it is more serious, as the nail may be destroyed, or at any rate shed, being slowly replaced by one of poor quality. In such case there is usually swelling of the end of the affected toe or finger. Congenital Syphilis.—Onychiaand perionychia occurring in infants and children is suspicious of syphilis. One or more nails may be involved or shed, and the condition arise apart from any skin rash. In the congenital bullous syphilide both finger- and toe-nails may become uneven, discoloured, with crusts about the roots, and a red areola beyond. X. Parasitic Diseases (exclusive of the Schizomycetes).— 1. Fungi. a. Onychomycosis (0. trichophytina-Tinea unguis vel unguium).— Ringworm of the nail may be associated with the disease in other parts of the body, or the nails only be involved. One or more of these, either of the fingers or toes, may be affected. The condition is essentially a chronic one, and may date back several or many years, twenty or more. The nails themselves are brittle, dis- coloured, of a dirty, brownish hue, rough, furrowed, and striated, with flaky surface. I have found it requires much patience in some cases to find the fungus in the scrapings. The back of the suspected nail should be scraped to a good depth with the sharp edge of a slide or with a knife, and the debris examined (with a high power) after prolonged soaking in liq. potassse B.P. (about 5 per cent), or, better still, in a 40 per cent solution, which more rapidly clarifies the preparation. If no fungus be found at first, more liq. potassfe should be added, and the slide examined several times at intervals, when patience will be rewarded by the discovery of dichotomously branching and shortly seg- mented mycelial filaments, or chain formations may occur here and there or predominate. In my experience the fungus is large spored, but whether of the ecto- or endothrix variety cannot be definitely stated from the microscopical ex- amination alone. A ctdtivation would be neces- sary to settle the point, but this has failed in two or three of the several cases I have examined. In one case, which was associated with tinea circinata of the back of the hand and phalanges, I found the megalosporon chain-like mycelium in a stump removed from among the hairs from one of the affected fingers. At the proximal end of the stump the fungus was outside (ecfo- thrix), but higher up it was distinctly inside (endothrix). The latter appears to be the usual fungus of tinea unguium. According to Ehlers of Copenhagen, who first called attention to its fungus origin, an affection of the nails is common in Iceland {Jcartnogl; from ^ar< = card for combing out wool, and ndgl = nail). It is really a tinea unguium contracted from sheep. One or two out of every ten peasants suffer from the complaint. All the finger-nails may be affected. Tinea unguium may also be found associated with tinea cruris (Eczema marginatum) of eastern (Dhobie itch) and tropical or sub-tropical origin. It is stated that in tinea imbricata the nails and hair are always spared. y8. Favus (Onychomycosis favosa).—The favus fungus may also attack the nails as well as the scalp and glabrous skin. It is usually con- tracted by auto-inoculation from other parts of the body ; this is not to be wondered at when one considers that favus of the scalp may last for years. I have never seen the nails affected in London, where favus itself is rare, but it may become more common by importation through Jewish immigrants from Poland and elsewhere. The nails are thickened, the surface irregular, and in some cases a yellowish lint is seen; or the surface may be fairly smooth or somewhat scaly. The nail itself is separated from its bed by a thick layer of friable substance ; or there may be a heaped-up appearance. One or more nails may be affected. Microscopically the following are found : mycelial filaments varying in size, more or less ramified and segmented, with spores arranged in chains and in clumps. In a word, there is polymorphism of the fungous elements;, a point of importance in the differ- ential diagnosis between onychomycosis trichophy- tina and 0. favosa, and in favour of the latter. (For further pathological details see Unna and Heller). 2. Animal.—The only condition which need detain us under this head is the itch (scabies), and, indeed, that severe form of it known as the Nonvegian itch. (See also article " Scabies.") The nail-changes in this rare condition are due to its chronicity, and results from the pustular lesions occurring about the nails, leading to an accumulation of crusts under the free edge, etc. XI. Ingrowing Toe-Nail (Unguis incarnatus —Onyxis laterale).—This affection might per- haps be more correctly called an overgrowth of the soft parts surroimding the nail. It is a well-known condition, occurring with various degrees of severity, and usually attributed to the pressure of badly-fitting foot-gear. If this were the sole cause, however, it ought to be much more common, seeing how fashionable are the pointed-toe boots and shoes. Dionis has observed the condition in bare-footed friars, so that other factors play a part. One factor is certainly cutting off the angles of the nail too square, the sharp end left leading to irritation and, no doubt, to secondary microbial infection also.519 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE The disease is practically limited to the big toes, usually the outer side. It is a very pain- ful and troublesome affection, the ulcer which forms secreting a fetid sanious discharge, fol- lowed by exuberant granulations. XII. Anomalous and Obscure Affections of THE Nails.—Now and then morbid changes in the nails are met with, which are not connected with either a general or a skin disease. At any rate the nails are, as far as can be made out, the only parts affected, and as no cause can be discovered, the conditions are referred to as idiopathic, which does not help us very much. I have thought it well to place such affections in a group by themselves. A case of this kind came under my own care, and as the details may be of interest, I will here record them. The patient was sent to me by Dr. Percy Edmunds of London. She was a young German woman, aged thirty-one. Three months before I saw her the njiils of the right- hand began to get pink half-way up, and gradually became longitudinally striated. The left finger-nails then went through the same process, until all the finger-nails became longitudinally ridged, brittle, and uneven (wavy) on the surface. The two big toe-nails were also affected (six weeks). In them the lunula areas were flaky, rough, and discoloured, the nails beyond being normal. Both little toe- nails were absent—they had never been of much account; and some of the other toe-nails were more ridged longitudinally than usual. Associated with the nail-changes, I noticed some canities: many white hairs mixed with the black ones on the right eyebrow ; the eyelashes on the outer side of the right upper eyelid were white ; there were also three tufts of white hairs on the right side of the scalp, viz., near the fore- head, just in front of the right ear, and near the neck behind the ear. There was nothing definite in the general health or history to account for the nail-changes. The marked symmetry and the short duration in such a case might be taken as indicating some central nerve origin, a so-called trophoneurosis, but this is quite hypothetical ("? spinal metamerism). Other cases of symmetrical affections of the nails are on record, in which other changes about the extremities were also present (numb- ness of finger-tips, thickening of terminal phalangeal joints, etc.), but in which no cause could be made out, and the nervous origin assumed as the only explanation. Dystrophy and increased curvature of the finger-nails, without clubbing, I have seen associated with premature baldness and grey- ness, but without any tangible cause to account for the nutritional changes. Another type is the loosening of the finger- nails from their bed {decollement neuropathique des angles). The detachment commences at the free edge and may travel down as far as the lunula. The nails themselves are moderately thickened, yellowish, and dirty - looking from the accumulation of dirt beneath them. All the finger-nails may be affected, but similar changes have also been observed in the toe- nails. Both sexes suffer. The separation takes place rapidly, all the nails being affected in the course of a few months. It may go on for long periods, varying in intensity. Here, again, a nerve origin has been invoked. Acland records a case of this kind. The detachment may be partial and affect certain fingers only of both hands symmetrically. Suhiongual hoemorrhages may occur apparently spontaneously. The haemorrhages take place quite apart from scurvy, tabes, injuries, or any other discoverable cause. Heller gives the details and drawing of such a case. Seven of the finger-nails were affected. Haemorrhages into the nail substance itself have also been seen. In the case of a female patient of feeble intellect, the subject of hemi- plegia, haemorrhages occurred at the root of all the nails into the nail. The ecchymotio patches eventually grew out with the nails, and the latter grew quite well again. In this instance the haemorrhages coincided with an attack of hemiplegia. XIII. Malignant Disease of the Nail.— This is very rarely met with. Jonathan Hutchinson, junior, has recorded a case of epithelioma of the nail. The patient was a man of seventy, and the disease had existed for several months, but for nearly twenty years there had been occasional inflammation with formation of pus under the nail. Part of the nail was apparently healthy, but it was found to be really undermined by the cancerous growth, which also involved the subjacent bone. XIV. Subungual Exostosis. — This may lead to changes in the toe-nail, but as the con- dition is a little beyond the scope of this article, it will not be insisted on in this place. XV. Intoxications.—Arsenic.—This drug is eliminated through the hair and nails, and in poisoning by it the latter may be variously affected and even shed. Bruce Clarke observed suppuration occur about all the finger- and toe- nails, leading to their detachment from their bed, in a case of arsenical poisoning. In a case of generalised arsenical pigmenta- tion, Mansurow noted that the nails had a brownish tint, which appeared to be due to the lemon-yellow hue of the borders of the nail-cells. I have seen exaggerated longitudinal ribbing in most of the finger-nails in arsenic keratosis. In the recent Manchester epidemic of arsenical beer poisoning, the great majority of the patients presented no visible alteration of the nails. Ab- normally rapid growth occurred in some cases; when this took place spasmodically wavy trans- verse ridges were formed. In others, longitudinal striae and subungual hyperkeratosis occurred.NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 520 Argyria.—In this condition the nail-bed may be affected, but the nail itself is never involved. Pellagra, which is due to toxic bodies formed in damaged maize, the nails are sometimes thickened and brittle, the skin of the forearms and hands also suffering. Gonorrhoea.—Shedding of the nails has been observed in this disease, associated with corni- fication of the skin, probably of toxic origin. Etiology.—This has already been incidentally touched upon in the course of the foregoing descriptive survey, as to need little additional detail. In diseases of the nails, it is often very difficult to trace effects to their cause or causes, for the reasons given; in some the factor at work can only be guessed at. Pathology.—I have referred to some of the pathological changes, but for fuller details the works of Heller and Unna may be profitably consulted. Diagnosis.—This subject also has been dealt with in a general way under the various head- ings, but in this connection the fact again must be insisted upon that the same nail-changes occur in different diseases, and one and the same disease may lead to a variety of nail- changes. In the diagnosis, therefore, all the facts should be taken together—the duration, the mode of development, the distribution (symmetrical or otherwise), the state of the nails and the number affected—that is to say, the case should be investigated on general principles. The patient should be thoroughly examined — skin, hair, and so forth. The history of previous illnesses, including skin affections, the general condition, including age, occupation, nationality, race, etc. Previous treatment should be inquired for, and it is as well to examine the urine. In the case of skin eruptions, syphilis, leprosy, and so forth, the diagnosis may be easy ; at any rate the inference that the nail condition is connected with morbid processes present in the skin or a constitutional taint, is justifiable. The possibility of accidental association, however, must not be lost sight of. An examination of the nail-scrapings in old- standing disease of one or more nails should always be made, where the nails are alone affected. The modus operandi has been de- scribed in section x. A negative result, except after prolonged soaking and repeated examina- tion, would not positively exclude a fungus origin. I have found mycelium in cases where negative results had led to the exclusion of ringworm, but it requires some patience. In some obscure and anomalous cases a diagnosis cannot be made at all qud cause. The results of treatment, such as the effects of mercury in suspected congenital syphilis, would be a help in cleai'ing up doubts. The numerous details which it would be necessary to enter into to thoroughly treat the matter of differential diagnosis would occupy too much space to be dealt with in the present article. Suffice it to say that if the descriptive portions, together with the above remarks, are carefully read, errors in diagnosis will be reduced to a minimum. Prognosis. — This is an important matter, from the patient's point of view. Nail diseases generally are obstinate. In some cases, nothing can be done {epidermolysis bullosa, some injuries, etc.). In the most favourable cases prognosis as to time and eventual recovery must be guarded. Perseverance in the treatment is a great factor. As a rule, where recovery is possible, it is very gradual. Treatment.—This may be divided into general and local. As to the former, the patient must be treated as a whole on general principles — cod-liver oil in scrofula, iron and tonics in anaemia, mercury and iodide of potassium in syphilis, and so on. The beneficial effects of appropriate feeding, sunlight, air, change of scene, exercise, etc., need scarcely be insisted upon in the case of individuals suffering from lowered nutrition, depression, and so forth. The nails and extremities may require pro- tection from cold and heat, or the patient may have to give up an unfavourable occupation, for a time, at least, as in irritant dermatitis. The matter of foot-gear must not be over- looked : ill-fitting boots and shoes must be put aside, and replaced by articles made on common- sense principles. Sandals, with uncovered feet, would in some cases be useful where circum- stances permit. In congenital and hereditary affections, treat- ment is reduced practically to protection of the nails and fingers from injuries (including irritating fluids, etc.). Cuts, Crushes, Splinters, Hcemorrhages.— Whitlows must be treated on the usual surgical principles. When pus forms under the nail the tension must be relieved by cutting or scraping away the nail substance and liberating the pus, followed by the application of iodoform (or of one of its odourless substitutes, europhen, loretin, etc.). As to general diseases, they have already been referred to. In diseases of the skin, treatment of the general condition is essential. This cannot be gone into here, but the reader will find all details under the diseases themselves in this Encyclopedia. My remarks must be limited to the local measures to be adopted for the nails. In onychogryposis the nail must be softened in hot water, to which soda, potash, or soap can be added, and its superfluous portions removed. For this purpose a saw or bone forceps will be found useful. What remains can then be filed down smooth. When the nail is very loose, it can be removed bodily,521 NAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE and the nail-bed protected by means of an ointment, sucii as ung. zinci. oxidi, spread on linen. For leuconychia of the nails an oxide of tin polishing powder, coloured with 1 per cent of carmine can be used, or the nails stained with an alcoholic solution of eosin or carmine to mask the unnatural whiteness Other deformities, such as marked reeding, transverse ridges, protuberances, discolorations, are often permanent; but some improvement can be obtained by rubbing down and polishing as recommended above. In hyperlceratosis of the nail-bed, or separation of the nail, as in psoriasis, a salicylic acid ointment, grs. xv.-3j. to the 3j. of lard (or to 5vj. of lanoline and 5ij. of olive oil, or to sj. of oleate of zinc ointment) pushed under the nail with a bevelled bit of wood, is useful. Where there is hyperidrosis of the hands and feet, it should be treated. Sulph. praecip 3j., •ex lacte nocte maneque, is useful, to which pulv. cinnamomi co. 5ij., and pulv. cretse co. 3vj. ad can be added if there is purging. As for tonic treatment, arsenic is the only one exerting a specific action on the nails. It has long been known that it is eliminated through the hair and nails ; in chronic poisoning it can be detected in the nail parings. Arsenic acts apparently by stimulating nutrition. It is useful in psoriasis, and when the nails alone are affected, and psoriasis suspected, it should be tried with the usual precautions, either alone or combined with iron (ferri et amnion, cit.). Its effects should be watched, as, taken over long periods in a routine way, it may lead to pigmentation, keratosis, and even cancer of the skin. In diseases of the nervous system, when the damage to the nerve elements is irreparable, little or nothing can be done, except to protect the nails. Improvement of the circulation in the extremities by careful rubbing might be of service. When in the case of a divided nerve the ends «an be brought together, with regeneration, the nails would probably improve with the other tissues. In mental strain, shocks, and so forth, quiet, tonics, sea and mountain air, and so forth are indicated. Simple forms of infiammatio7i should be treated by hot fomentations, and removal of any part of the nail, which becomes loose; and iodoform, or its substitutes (europhen, loretin), applied. A lotion of liq. plumbi subacetatis gss., sp. vini rect. §j. aq. ad Oj. applied on lint under oiled skin is sometimes very efficacious. In onychia maligna the general supporting treatment of the patient is important. Locally the nail, if mucli affected, should be removed under an anaesthetic, and exuberant granulations scraped or cut away, followed by dusting on iodoform (europhen, etc.) and dressing with wet boracic-acid lint, or packing the parts with iodoform gauze. In syphilitic onychia, and perionychia, the treatment varies with the condition. When dry [onychia sicca), mercury should be ordered by the mouth in the usual way. When inflamed or idcerated, local soothing applications should also be used in addition to the constitutional treatment. Mercury sometimes aggravates ulcerative and suppurative conditions, just as it does pustular, ulcerating, rupial syphilides. Jarisch rightly insists on care in this particular. Instead of mercury, tonics, such as perchloride of iron, bark, etc., combined with sea-air and generous diet, should be the line of treatment. As to stimulants, I cannot say I have ever seen any benefit from them in syphilis; the post hoc propter hoc fallacy may account for the glowing accounts of the benefits of port wine, etc. In those cases of tertiary syphilide of the palm (improperly still called palmar psoriasis by some) or sole where the nails are involved by continuity, iodide of potassium is indicated, together with a mild ung. hydrargyri (oij. to Jiv. or more ad rubbed into the affected skin area. In congenital syphilitic onychia of infants and children I have in several cases observed the immediate good effects of specific treatment (hyd. c. creta, gr. j. bis vel ter in die), without local applications, but a weak boracic acid or oleate of zinc ointment can be ordered at the same time. As to the p)arasitic diseases, ringworm and favus need alone detain us. The condition being an obstinate one, a number of remedies have been recommended. The following will be found useful:—Scraping the nail thoroughly with the sharp edge of a slide, followed by soaking it with sulphurous acid or hyposulphite of soda, 3ij. to the ounce of water, applied on lint under oiled silk. Radcliffe-Crocker has found the treatment advocated by Harrison of Bristol for Tinea tonsurans answer well in Tinea unguium. The nail is first scraped, and the following solution, liq. potassse, aq. dest. aa 3SS., pot. iodidi 3ss. applied on lint luider oiled silk for a quarter of an hour. A second solution, hyd. perchlor. gr. iv., sp. vini rect., aq. dest. aa 3SS., is then immediately applied in the same manner for twenty-four hours, when the nail is again scraped and the process repeated. (For the scalp the treatment requires much care and medical supervision.) Sabouraud recommends the following solution, applied on absorbent wool: potassium iodide 2 grams, metallic iodine 1 gram, water 1 litre. The wool is covered in by means of a rubber finger-stall. Dubreuilh has not found it succeed in his practice. According to Ehlers, the kartmigl of Iceland can be cured by the daily use of a 1 per centNAILS, AFFECTIONS OF THE 522 solution of perchloride of mercury in alcohol applied with a brush. In some cases avulsion of the affected nails has been resorted to with complete success in some cases, but in others the disease has re- curred. Ingrowing Toe-Nail.—-Various measures have been advocated for this condition. The un- healthy granulations should be destroyed by scraping, or with acid nitrate of mercury, applied with a match end (latter is painful), the sharp angle of the nail removed, and the parts packed with wet boracic acid lint under oiled silk, pressure being applied over the nail. Avulsion of the nail is recommended as the only procedure of permanent benefit, but Scott- Battam has found the following useful: rubbing the granulations with silver nitrate (under cocaine), and pressing small pieces of fine Turkey sponge between the nail and the granu- lations, a small piece being introduced under the free edge of the nail. The whole is fixed by means of a long narrow strip of plaster, and a soft, easy shoe worn. This is repeated later, and the crust formed by the nitrate of silver removed. On the fourth or fifth day a small piece of sponge must be inserted beneath the edge of the nail, or a portion of it removed with scissors. A mixture of iodoform and alum is then dusted on, and a sponge compress applied. The process may be repeated in a week or ten days if the ulcer has not healed. The dressing should be worn for two or three weeks longer. Anomaloiis and obscure diseases of the sym- metrical type should be treated locally with salicylic acid ointment {vide supra), or oleate of tin, gr. XX.-sj. to the ounce of lard as recom- mended by Shoemaker. Liquor arsenicalis should be ordered by the mouth with the precautions already insisted on. At the same time, the patient's surroundings, food, etc., should be attended to, and any derangement corrected (constipation and so forth). Where subungual hcemorrhages occur without apparent cause, inquiry should be made as to hasmiojjhilia. The general condition of the patient may call for iron. In nail-changes caused by intoxications the use of the drug or agent must be suspended, and treatment carried out on the lines above suggested. Epithelioma of the nail necessitates amputa- tion, and the infected glands, if any, should be excised. Medical Jurisprudence.—Deformities, trade discolorations, and diseases of the nails may be a means of identification in the living and the dead. In suspected arsenical poisoning the nails should be chemically examined, as the drug is eliminated through them. Malingering.—The possibility of simulation must never be overlooked in unusual cases, which do not fit in to any of the foregoing groups. Here the unilaterality corresponding to right- or left-handedness, the bearing of the patient, and the circumstances and surroundings, would make one suspicious. It must be re- membered, however, that suspicions should not be communicated to either patients or friends. Nothing should be said unless proof positive be forthcoming. Even then the medical man gets more abuse than thanks. Personally I have never seen a case of nail malingering. Conclusion.—In the foregoing an attempt has been made to give as full and practical an account of diseases of the nails as possible, but many interesting details and minute points have necessarily had to be omitted. The reader desirous of going more deeply into the subject will iind much to interest him in various pub- lications and collections, a list of which is appended at the end of the bibliography [which accompanies this article as it appeared in the Encyclopcedia Medica, vol. viii. pp. 234, 235]. Nairn. See Balneology (Marine Baths, Seaiveed); Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Scotch). Naja,. See Snake-Bites {Elapidce, Naja or Cobra). Nakra or Nasha. — A malady re- sembling influenza, affecting the natives of India (males more than females) during the summer months. See Tropics, Unclassed Fevers of {Continued Fevers of Short Duration). Naming^ Centre.—It has been sup- posed that there is a special region of the brain where the various sensory elements which are required to make a concept are united together, as it were, by a name; this, however, is doubt- ful, and even the long accepted views regarding Broca's convolution have been undermined of late. Nancy. See Hypnotism {Inducing Hyp- nosis). Nanism.—Dwarfism (Gr. vavos, a dwarf) or microsomia. See Dwarfism and cross-ref- erences. Nano-.—In compound words nano- (Gr. vavos, a dwarf) means relating to a dwarf, or dwarfed; e.g. nanocephalus (an animal with a small head), nanomelus (an individual with stunted limbs), and nanosomus (a person with a dwarfed body). Nantwich. See Balneology {Great Britain, Mm-iated Waters) ; Mineral Waters {Muriated Saline Waters). Napeiline. — An alkaloid (C2fiH35N07 (OH)^) obtained from Aconitum Naj)ellus and having an action resen)bling that of aconitine; isaconitine. See Aconite.523 NAPHTHA Na.phtha,.—An inflammable oil distilled from petroleum (when it consists chiefly of paraffins and naphthenes), from coal-tar (when it contains benzene and toluene), or from shale oil (when it contains olefines and paraffins). Wood naphtha is methyl alcohol {q-v.). Naphthaline or Naphthalene. —A hydrocarbon (Cj^Hg), existing in coal-tar, yielding by oxidation phthalic acid (CgHgO^), and forming with certain other phenols coloured compounds (phthaleins) such as fluorescein and eosin. Naphthaline increases the luminosity of coal-gas; it also acts as an antiseptic and is given internally (dose, 5 to 10 grains) for this purpose {e.g. in typhoid fever), as well as ex- ternally {e.g. in scabies). Naphthol. — A coal - tar substance (CjqHjOH), beta - naphthol or beta - mono - hy- droxy-naphthalene; it has the same pharmaco- logical action as naphthaline and is used in the same morbid states {e.g. internally in typhoid fever in doses of 3 to 10 grains, and externally, as an ointment, in scabies, psoriasis, and ring- worm). Naphthol-Eucalyptol. — A com- pound of beta-naphthol (or alpha-naphthol) with eucalyptol; it is an antiseptic. Naphthol ism.—The morbid state pro- duced by the long use of naphthol as an external application; the kidneys are specially aff'ected (hsematuria, convulsions). Nap h thy I.— The radicle (Ci„H-) of naphthaline; naphthylamine, which turns red when exposed to air, has the formula CJ0H7.NH2. Narceine. — One of the alkaloids of opium; it has the formula C23H29NO9, and has been used as a substitute for morphine. There is a hydrochloride and a meconate. See Opium. NarCO-.—In compound words narco- (Gr. vdpKr], numbness or stiff"ness) signifies relating to numbness, stiff'ness, or sleep; e.g. narcoform (ahypnotic), narcohypnia ("waking numbness "), and narcopepsis (torpid digestion). Narcolepsy.—A malady characterised by an irresistible desire to sleep ; sleeping sick- ness. See Sleep, Normal and Morbid {Morbid Somnolence); Hysteria {Varieties of Attach). Narcomania.—A morbid craving for hypnotics, or the insanity which results from their use. See Morphinomania. Narcosis.—A state of unconsciousness or insensibility due to the action of narcotic drugs or poisons (arising within the system or intro- duced from without). See Anesthesia ; Alco- holism {Acute Symptoms); Opium ; etc. Narcotics. — Drugs or poisons which when swallowed, inhaled, or injected produce soporific or narcotic eff'ects. See Anaesthesia ; Chorea {Treatment); Eclampsia {Curative Treatment, Arresting the Fits, Morphia); In- sanity, General Treatment of {Drugs); La- bour, Precipitate and Prolonged {Faults in the Soft Passages, Opium for Cervical Rigidity); Pharmacology ; and under the various narcotic drugs (Belladonna, Chloral Hydrate, Canna- bis Indica, Hyoscyamus, Opium, Stramonium, etc). Narcotine or Narcotina. See Alkaloids (Vegetable); Opium. Narcotism.—The condition of insensi- bility or stupor produced by the taking of narcotics : narcotisation. Narcyl.—Chlorhydrate of ethylnarceine. Nares.—The nasal passages or nostrils ; the term 7iare (singular) is now hardly ever used. See Epistaxis {Treatment, Local, Plugging the Nares). Narg'Ol.—Nucleate of silver; a compound of nucleic acid and oxide of silver, used in gonorrhoea, conjunctivitis, ulcers, etc. Nasa or Nasha Fever. See Tropics, Unclassbd Fevers of {Nasha or Nahra). Nasal.—Kelating to the nose. See Nose. Nasion.—One of the "fixed points" in craniology; the middle of the naso-frontal suture, a little below the glabella. Nasmyth's Mem brane. — The enamel cuticle of a tooth. NaSO-.—In compound words naso- means relating to the nose; e.g. naso-antral (relating to the nose and to the antrum of Highmore), naso- huccal (relating to the nose and cheek), iiaso- frontal (relating to the nasal and frontal bones), naso-lachrymal (relating to the nose and tear apparatus), naso-palatine (relating to the nose and palate), etc. See Nose. Naso-Pharynx.—^e Ear, Middle, ChronicNon-suppurativeDisease; Meningitis, Tuberculous {Etiology, Middle Ear); Nose, Examination of ; Nose, Diseases of Nasal Orifices and Septum ; Nose, Acute Inflamma- tion ; Nose, Chronic Inflammation ; Nose, Chronic Infective Diseases ; Nose, Post-nasal Adenoid Growths ; Pharynx, Examination of ; Pharynx, Acute and Chronic Pharyngitis ; Pharynx, Chronic Infective Diseases; Ton- sils, Diseases of ; Voice {Resonating Cavities). Natal. See Therapeutics, Health Re- sorts {South Africa). Natality.—The ratio of births to the524 NATALITY population, or the probability of births occur- ring under given conditions of age, etc. Nataloin. — The aloin obtained from Natal aloes. See Aloes and Aloin. Na,ta.l Sore. See Skin Diseases of the Tropics {Veldt or Natal Sores). Ncltes.—The buttocks, also the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina of the brain. Natiform.—Shaped like the buttock, e.g. the natiform skull of rickets and perhaps also of syphilis See Rickets {Head, Natiform Shill); Syphilis {In Children, Bones of Skull). Native. — Indigenous, not strange or foreign, original. The proteids which are found already formed in the tissues are called native ; " native notes " are birth-marks or luevi. IMatrium.—Sodium {q.v.). Natural.—A popular term for an idiot or half-witted person; one naturally deficient mentally^—"the vacant grin of a natural." Nauheim Treatment.— The Nau- heim or Schott method is the treatment of heart disease, chronic rheumatism, etc. by gymnastic exercises, and baths containing Nauheim salts. See Balneology {Germany, Muriated Waters); Heart, Neuroses of {Tachycardia, Treatment); Mineral Waters {Mnriated) : Therapeutics, Health Resorts {Germany). Naunyn's Theory.— The view that the cholesterine of the bile is formed by the breaking down of the epithelium lining the bile ducts. See Physiology, Food and Digestion (Bile Composition). Nausea. See Alcoholism {Intoxication); Brain, Affections of Blood-Vessels {Anmmia of Brain, Symptoms); Myiasis {Symptoms of Intestinal Myiasis) ; Pregnancy, Diagnosis ; Stomach and Duodenum, Diseases of {General Symptomatology); Uraemia {Symptoms, Diges- tive). Nautomania.—Morbid fear of a ship; also a peculiar form of insanity occurring speci- ally in sailors, and characterised by dangerous mania and a morbid dread of water. Navel.—The umbilicus. See Umbilicus, Diseases of. Navicular.—Boat-shaped, e.g. the navi- cular or scaphoid bone of the tarsus and carpus ; the fossa naviculai-is is the boat - shaped de- pression between the fourchette and the peri- neum in the female. See Generation, Female Organs of {Uxternal Organs). Neapolitan Disease. See Syphilis {Synonyms). Neapolitan Fever. See Undulant Fever. Near-Point. See Physiology, Senses ( Vision, Acco?nmodation); Refraction. Near-Sigfht. See Myopia. Neaves' Food. See Infant Feeding {Proprietary Foods). Nebula.—A slight opacity of the cornea. See Cornea {Ulcerative Inflammation, Results). Nebulae. — Solutions, given in the form of spray, for the throat and naso-pharynx, by means of a nebuliser or atomiser. See Atomisation. Neck, Reg^ion of. Anatomical Points .... 524 Injuries ...... 526 Cut Throat, etc. . . . . 526 Inflammatory Affections . . . 527 Abscess ..... . 527 Cysts and Cystic Tumours . . . 528 Solid Tumours ..... 528 See also Aneuryism {Of the Neck); Aorta, Thoracic, Aneurysm of {Arterial Pulsation of the Neck) ; Brachial Plexus, Surgical Affec- tions OF ; Children, Clinical Examination of {The Neck, Stiffness); Eczema {Neck); Glandu- lar Fever {Clinical Features, Pain in the Neck); Lymphatic System, Physiology and Pathology {Lymphatic Glands of the Neck); Mediastinum {Emphysema of Neck); Medicine, Forensic {Death from Asphyxia, Hanging); Meningitis, Tuberculous and Posterior Basic {Symptoms, Neck Stiffness); Meningitis, Epi- demic Cerebro-Spinal {Symptoms, Stiffness of Neck): (Esophagus (Wounds of Neck); Parotid Gland, Disorders of. Anatomical Points.—For precision in anatomi- cal description the region of the neck has been divided into triangles. Thus, the space bounded by the middle line of the neck in front, by the sterno-mastoid behind, and above by the lower border of the jaw, and an imaginary line con- necting it with the mastoid, is termed the anterior triangle. This is further divided by the anterior belly of the omohyoid muscle and by the two bellies of the digastric into the inferior carotid, superior carotid, and digastric triangles in order from below upwards. In the same way the triangular space between the sterno-mastoid muscle in front and the trapezius behind, of which the base is formed by the middle third of the clavicle, is named the posterior triangle. It, in turn, is divided into two smaller triangles by the posterior belly of the omohyoid, the upper the occipital, and the525. NECK, REGION OF lower the subclavian. The extent of these spaces varies much with the muscularity of the individual. The Deep Fascive.—The arrangement of the deep fascia has an important bearing on the direction taken by fluid connections in the neck. It is also not without an influence on the direc- tion of growth of solid tumours. Although other smaller septa are given off, chiefly in the posterior part of the neck, three main layers of deep fascia exist: (1) An outer layer which forms a continuous collar round the entire neck. This is attached posteriorly to the ligamentum nuchfe, and, as it sweeps round the neck, it slips twice, to enclose first the trapezius, and then the sterno-mastoid. Over these muscles it is less strongly marked than elsewhere. Above it is attached to the lower jaw, the mastoid process, and the occiput; below, to the sternum, clavicle, and the spine of the scapula. As it passes over the hyoid it is attached to that bone also. (2) A middle layer (the pretracheal fascia), the least well marked of the three. This springs from the outer layer beneath the sterno-mastoid, helps to form the carotid sheath, and then passes forward in front of the thyroid gland and trachea, to both of which it gives a fibrous investment. It also furnishes sheaths for the omohyoid, sternohyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles. It is attached above to the hyoid bone and below to the sternum, but is prolonged down to blend with the pericardium. On each side it is attached to the clavicle, and it finally becomes continuous with the sheath of the axillary vessels. (3) An inner layer (the pre- vertebral fascia), which lies immediately in front of the prevertebral muscles. It, like the middle layer, is derived from the outer layer, and takes part in the formation of the carotid sheath. Above it is fixed to the base of the skull, while below it is carried down over the longus colli muscles into the thorax. It is attached at the sides to the transverse process of the vertebra?. From the above description it will be seen that a knife introduced from before backwards would traverse three separate planes of deep fascia before reaching the spinal column. Further, by the above arrangement three fascial compart- ments are found. In the most anterior of these the descent of fluid is obviously limited by the sternum. In the middle and posterior spaces, however, pus may easily extend into the thorax. Pus, moreover, occasionally follows the extension of the middle layer into the axilla. Superficial to the deep fascia the platysma and the ex- ternal jugular vein are the only structures of importance. The Vessels and Nerves.—In the removal of tumours these are often in danger, and in ex- tensive operations some may have to be divided. Here only brief notes on the position of the more important can be given. The direction of the common and external carotids is the same, namely, that of a line drawn from the sterno- clavicular joint to a point half-way between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The external carotid portion of this line begins at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the point at which the common carotid ends. The internal carotid may be indicated by a similar line, but it lies at a deeper level, and is also a little external to the external carotid. The internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve are included in the same sheath as the common carotid. The internal jugular lies to the outer side; it is large, is very thin, and in most cases overlaps the artery to a certain extent, particularly on the left side. If the tissues happen to be on the stretch it may look more like a band of fascia than a vein. Should the breathing become at all forcible during an operation, it may be seen to swell out during expiration and collapse during inspiration. Owing to the adhesion of the fascia to the deep veins of the neck, the danger of air entering them during the removal of tumours, etc. must not be forgotten. To avoid this in operations all doubtful bands should be clamped before division, and when divided should be cut com- pletely across. The vagus nerve lies behind and between the vessels. The formation of the carotid sheath has been referred to above ; in front of it lies the small descendens noni nerve, and behind it the cord of the sympathetic. The lateral mobility of the sheath and the structures it contains is considerable, and the surgeon must therefore not be surprised to occasionally find its position in the neck considerably altered by tumour growth. The line of the subclavian artery in the neck may be roughly indicated by a curved line extending from the sterno-clavi- cular joint to a point nearly opposite the centre of the clavicle. The summit of this curve is usually about half an inch above the clavicle, but it varies considerably. The vein is at a lower level than the artery, and is also anterior to it. In operations on the third part of the artery it is in much less danger than the lowest of the nerve cords which pass down above the artery on their way to the axilla to form the brachial plexus. The external jugular vein, after it has pierced the deep fascia, crosses this part of the artery with several of its tributaries on its way to the subclavian vein. The scalenus anticus lies over the second part. From the first part of the artery come off the thoracic axis, the vertebral and internal mammary arteries; it is crossed by the internal jugular vein and the vagus and phrenic nerves. Behind and below, the pleura and the recurrent laryngeal nerve (on the right side) are in close connection. It is therefore evident that operations in this neighbourhood can only be carried out with great care. The greater cornu of the hyoid bone is a useful guide to the position of theNECK, REGION OF 526 anterior branches of the external carotid, the lingual being given off opposite to it, the superior thyroid below it, and the facial a short distance above it. It should be remembered that the veins corresponding to these vessels m\ist cross the carotid in order to reach the internal jugular vein. The occipital artery generally arises at the same level as the facial. The hypoglossal nerve winds round it close to its origin on its way to the floor of the mouth. Lower down, the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus must be avoided on its way to pierce the thyrohyoid membrane (internal branch) to supply the raucous membrane of the larynx. The spinal accessory nerve is in considerable danger in extensive removal of glands. It enters the sterno-mastoid about two inches below the tip of the mastoid, and emerges from it about the centre of its posterior border. Lymphatics.—These have already been dealt with in the description given of the lymphatics of the whole body (p. 98). The frequency of glandular enlargements in the neck, however, makes it necessary to refer to the matter again. A superficial chain of glands follows the course of the external jugular vein. The lymph it receives comes from the outer ear, the skin of the front and back of the neck, the occipital and mastoid glands, and (partly) from the parotid and submaxillary glands. A deep cervical chain of glands follows and often ad- heres to the internal jugular vein. The upper set, extending from the bifurcation of the carotid to the base of the skull, are called the deep superior cervical, the lower the deep inferior cervical. In addition, a set of glands upon the submaxillary salivary gland, and a set in the supraclavicular region, are known respectively by these names. The deep superior cervical are fed from the cranial cavity, the posterior part of the tongue^ the lower pharynx, the larynx, the thyroid gland, the deep muscles of the neck, and partly from the submaxillary glands. The deep inferior cervical ultimately gets the lymph from all the other glands of the neck. The area drained by the submaxillary set is large, consisting of the face, lips, floor of the mouth, gums, and teeth of lower jaw, anterior part of the tongue, and the parotid lymphatic glands. The supraclavicular are a continuation of the deep inferior cervical; they communicate with the lymphatics of the breast, axilla, and mediastinum. To the occipital glands, placed on the origin of the trapezius, run the lymphatic vessels of the back of the head. The Middle Line of the Neck.—The anatomy of this region is important, both on account of the variety of operations which are performed there, and also from the greater importance of wounds in this region as compared with other -wounds of the neck. Beginning at the sym- physis menti, the following are the structures met with from above downwards in order:— (1) The mylohyoid raphe. Just under the chin, however, the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles meet, and the platysma muscles decussate across the middle line ; (2) The hyoid bone; (3) The thyrohyoid membrane; (4) The pomum Adami and thyroid cartilage; (5) The crico-thyroid membrane; (6) The cricoid cartilage (opposite the sixth cervical vertebra); (7) The upper rings of the trachea ; (8) The isthmus of the thyroid gland; (9) The trachea with the inferior thyroid plexus of veins. The presence of these veins and the greater depth of the trachea make the "low operation" of tracheotomy (below the isthmus) more difficult than the " high opera- tion " (above the isthmus). The occasional presence of the thyroidea ima artery and, in children under two years, the thymus gland are further mesial structures which may be met with. It must not be forgotten, too, that the structures normally forming the middle line of the neck may be displaced to one side by an inflammatory swelling or by a tumour. The surgeon, therefore, should always be most care- ful to identify the landmarks of the neck before operating, particularly in obese subjects. Injuries.—Burns.—The neck has long been recognised as a most serious site for burns, chiefly on accoimt of the terrible deformity which may follow cicatrisation; owing to the laxity of the tissues the chin may be drawn down in extreme cases so as to touch the shoulder, or the mouth may similarly be pulled into the region of the neck. In the treatment of deep burns, therefore, this tendency to con- traction should be met by the liberal application of skin drafts, using Thiersch's method, the neck at the same time being kept extended by some form of splint. Contusions, etc.—Contusions or fractures of the larynx or fractures of the hyoid bone occa- sionally occur as the result of kicks or manual compression, as in garrotting. Contusions else- where are usually not followed by serious results. Wounds.—Wounds of the sides and nape of the neck call for no special reference, haemorrhage being treated in the same way as elsewhere. Wounds, however, of the anterior aspect acquire a special importance owing to the'frequent in- volvement of the food and air passages. Cut Throat.—The wound producing this in- jury is generally incised, is more or less trans- verse, and, though it may be met with at any level in the middle line, it perhaps most often involves the thyrohyoid membrane. Here the pharynx is opened into. The wound is almost invariably homicidal or suicidal. If the latter, it is (if the operator is right-handed) directed obliquely from left to right, and is deepest at the commencement. The wound may be quite527 NECK, REGION OF shallow, or so deep as to reach the spine. The great vessels of the neck usually escape. This is explained by the depth at which they lie, and by the protection afforded to them by the larynx and sterno-mastoid muscles. The signs depend on the depth and site of the wound. In certain situations, as over the larynx, the bleeding may be insignificant. On the other hand, when the cut is above the hyoid bone, the lingual or facial arteries may be severed and, when below the cricoid cartilage, the inferior thyroid arteries and thyroid veins. If the great vessels are involved the patient generally dies within a few seconds. As regards damage to other structures, when the wound is above the hyoid bone the tongue and hypoglossal nerve may be divided, when it involves the thyrohyoid membrane the superior laryngeal nerve and the epiglottis may be cut. Food or saliva escaping from the wound indi- cates that the pharynx or oesophagus have been injured. When the air-passages have been opened into, more or less loss of voice occurs. This is complete if the vocal cords are involved. In many cases much embarrassment of breath- ing is present. This may be caused by the tongue falling back, by partial separation of the upper and lower portions of the windpipe, by displacement of the cut epiglottis, or by blood getting into the air-passages. Besides the immediate dangers due to shock, bleeding, and asphyxia, secondary complications exist: such are oedema, glottidis, bronchitis, and broncho - pneumonia, cellulitis extending into the mediastinum, and surgical emphysema. (Edema glottidis is naturally more liable to occur when the wound is above the cords. If haemorrhage or alarming dyspnoea is present these conditions must be first attended to. If severe hsemorrhage has taken place, transfusion of saline fluid is indicated in all cases. As re- gards the wound, much depends on the case. The surgeon will be influenced by its site, its character, and, above all, by whether he thinks it will become septic or not. If possible it should be closed—the wounded trachea, carti- lages, etc. being sutured at the same time. Drainage is generally required. In very many cases it is safer, and in some instances absolutely necessary, to insert a tracheotomy tube in the windpipe for several days. In such cases, if the wound is below the thyroid cartilage, it may be made use of. In other cases a high tracheotomy should be performed and the origi- nal wound sutured. If the oesophagus is injured it should be sewn up, but a drainage tube should always be left in the wound. In the after-treat- ment of cut throat care must be taken that apposition of the parts be assisted by maintain- ing the neck as far as possible in the position of flexion. Needless to say, no suicidal case should ever be left alone. Inflammatory Affections.—Cellulitis.—This is met with in varying degrees, most commonly as the result of a septic wound and after scarlet fever or diphtheria. The symptoms and treat- ment are the same as those of cellulitis in other parts. Angina Ludovici.—This is a peculiar and very severe form of cellulitis, beginning gener- ally below the jaw in the submaxillary region, and extending rapidly downwards and to the middle line of the neck. By some it has been termed submaxillary cellulitis. It occurs under- neath the deep fascia and is attended by marked constitutional disturbance. Great swelling is nearly always present, and the tongue is very often pushed upwards and backwards so as to cause difficulty in swallowing and in breathing. This is one of the most characteristic features of the disease. Much brawny induration exists, the skin becomes oedematous and discoloured, and considerable sloughing usually takes place. The cellular tissue soon becomes infiltrated with extremely foul pus which may burrow widely. The patient frequently succumbs within a few days from septic intoxication or from oedema of the glottis. The source of infection is some- what obscure, but in many cases it is most probably of buccal origin. The treatment con- sists in early and free incisions, usually in the middle line of the neck, followed by warm fomentations. Tracheotomy in many cases may be required. Boils occur in the neck as elsewhere, and a very favourite seat for car- buncle is the nape of the neck. Abscess.—Both acute and chronic abscess occur. The former is usually the result of acute in- flammation of lymphatic glands that have ab- sorbed septic material from the mouth, throat, or elsewhere. Acute inflammation of the lower jaw is also responsible for a certain number of cases. As has been pointed out in describing the fascia, pus in the deeper parts of the neck may extend into the mediastinum or into the axilla. For this reason, both in acute and chronic abscesses pus should be evacuated as soon as possible. Chronic abscesses are usually the result of the breaking down of tubercular glands or of tubercular disease of the cervi- cal vertebrae (chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess). Retro-pharyngeal abscesses are deeply seated in the neck, although as a rule easily palpable from the mouth. They are best opened through the neck by Hilton's method, as first pointed out by Chiene. By so doing the risk of sepsis is considerably diminished. The opening is made just posterior to the sterno-mastoid. An empyema may rarely point in the neck. BuBSvE are occasionally met with. They occur only in the front of the neck and in two situations, viz., in front of the larynx or above it between the back of the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. They are generally, but not always, of small size, move with the larynx in swallowing, and are lined with endothelium.NECK, REGION OF 528 Incision and drainage is usually sufficient to cure them. If this fails, they should be excised. Cysts and Cystic Tumours.—The neck is a favourite site for these swellings, which may be either congenital or acquired. The congenital will be referred to first. Hygroma or Multilocular Cystic Tumour of the Neck.-—This is often of large size, and consists of a series of lymphatic spaces embedded in connective tissue. These spaces are lined by endothelium, and contain a thin serous fluid and some cholesterin crystals. The outline of the tumour, which is soft and elastic to the touch, is most irregular. It possesses no capsule, and as it enlarges it usually sends processes deeply into the neck, which have been known to follow the deep fascia into the thorax or axilla. Besides causing great deformity, the tvimour may seriously press on the trachea and other structures. Complete excision should be per- formed if possible ; failing that, a partial excision has occasionally been successful in bringing about an arrest of growth. Dermoid cysts, lined by squamous epithelium, and containing sebaceous material and some- times hair, are found in two places. The most common site is under the chin in the middle line between the genio-hyoglossus and mylo- hyoid muscles. Their removal, unless they are very small, is best done through a median incision in the neck, and not through the mouth. Less frequently dermoids are found at the side of the neck at a position corresponding to one of the branchial clefts of the embryo. They are here more or less adherent to the great vessels. This must be borne in mind in excising them. Brajichial cysts and thyroglossal cysts are two other rare cysts which require mention. Branchial cysts result from incomplete closure of the branchial clefts, most commonly of the third (near the hyoid bone). They are lined generally with squamous epithelium, and contain either a glairy or sebaceous fluid. Thyroglossal cysts occur in the middle line and develop in connection with the remnants of the thyroglossal duct or tract of His. This tract extends from the foramen caecum in the tongue to the isthmus of the thyroid, descending behind the hyoid bone and in front of the larynx. The cyst in question represents the lower portion, and is to be found, therefore, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid gland. It resembles the latter organ both in structure and contents, and it moves with deglutition. In these and in branchial cysts the treatment is the same, namely, excision. Of acquired cysts, perhaps the most important is the unilocular serous cyst or hydrocele of the neck. This is a large, smooth, thin - walled, tense, and sometimes translucent cyst. A point of diagnostic importance is that it is almost invariably posterior to the sterno-mastoid. Its exact origin has not been definitely settled. It should be dissected out. Blood cysts ocasionally occur, and are due either to the dilatation of a vein or to extravasa- tion of blood into a pre-existing cyst. In aneurysms, in addition to the ordinary signs (see vol. i. pp. 167 and 181), the special symptoms which may arise from pressure upon structures in the neck may be looked for. Thus, in corotid aneurysm, stridor from pressure on the trachea or recurrent laryngeal nerve, dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus, dilatation or contraction of one pupil from stimulation or over-stimulation respectively of the sympathetic nerve, may occur. In sub- clavian aneurysm, symptoms indicative of pres- sure on the brachial plexus or phrenic nerve may be present. Sebaceous cysts of the skin are common, and resemble those found in other parts. Hydatid cysts in the neck are extremely rare. Aeroceles, or pouch-line protrusions from the trachea or larynx, pharyngoceles, or similar diverticula from the pharynx, occur, but are rare. The same may be said of pneumatocele, in which the apex of the lung protrudes through the pleura and forms a tumour in the posterior triangle of the neck. The term malignant cyst of the neck is applied to a form of carcinoma, which seems occasionally to arise primarily in the epithelium in the remains of the branchial clefts. Solid Tumours of the Neck.—It may be said at once that enlargements of the lymphatic glands form by far the commonest class of solid tumours met with in the neck. The subjectNECK, REGION OF 529 has already been dealt with in " Diseases of the Lymphatic Glands " (pp. 101-109). The follow- ing are the main points referring to glands in this region. Acute lymphadenitis from absorp- tion of irritating material occurs here as else- where. The source may be a septic cut or the inflamed pharynx of scarlatina, etc. Chronic lympthadenitis is the result either of long-continued peripheral irritation, or of the presence of the tubercle bacillus, or of the "poison" of syphilis. In enlargement, due to peripheral irritation, the cause should be sought for and removed. The list is a long one—diseased conditions of the tonsils, the pharynx, the teeth, the nose, the ear, the scalp, the naso-pharynx, are all at times responsible for glandular inflammation. In tubercular lymphadenitis the glands enlarge slowly, are at first discrete and movable, but later become matted together and adherent to the surrounding parts from periadenitis. They also tend to caseate, break down, and form tubercular abscesses in a characteristic manner. In many cases the patient possesses the physiognomy which is suggestive, though not diagnostic of tuberculosis. The treatment short of operation has already been described elsewhere. The surgeon operating on a case of tubercular glands must always be prepared for an extensive operation. As often as not the removal of one gland reveals the presence of another, and when this is taken away still another, and so on. If operation is to be done it should be radical: all the glands should be taken away. The deep glands are found lying along the internal jugular vein. When they are very adherent the safest plan is to remove a portion of the vein along with them. Further, in order to get free access it is often advisable to divide the sterno-mastoid and unite it again when the glands have been removed. The in- cisions in these operations should, where possible, follow the normal creases in the skin. In this way the scar is made less conspicuous. Broken- down glands must be removed with the sharp spoon. The cavity is then touched with pure phenol and stuffed with iodoform gauze. The purplish, sodden, undermined skin round the edges should also be excised. Syphilitic enlargement frequently occurs dur- ing the secondary stage of the disease. The glands are hard, not of large size, not tender, and freely movable. The occipital ones are very commonly aff'ected. The history and other evidences of the disease will help in the diagnosis. In lymphadenoma, which is usually met with in young males, the cervical glands are almost invariably the first in the body to become affected. The glands are not tender, and are generally fairly soft. They enlarge slowly, show no tendency to caseate, and as a rule are discrete, and freely movable. One or two VOL. VI glands only may be implicated, or a consider- able number may enlarge and form a large mass round the neck. As the disease progresses, the glands of the axilla, and later of nearly every other part of the body, enlarge. Sometimes they become adherent to one another, in which case the difliculty of the diagnosis between lymphadenoma and tubercle, often troublesome enough already, is increased. When the glands of the neck occasionally enlarge in the lym- phaemic variety of leucocythtjemia, the presence of an abnormal number of leucocytes in the blood in the latter is the only means of diff'er- entiating the two conditions, anaemia being present in both. In the treatment of lymph- adenoma, when arsenic has been used without eff"ect, excision of the glands, if there is no evidence of infrathoracic growth, should be tried. Lymphosarcoma, or primary sarcoma of the lymphatic glands, resembles lympho-adenoraa very closely, except in the very much greater rapidity of its growth. Its early and complete removal aff'ords the only chance for the patient. Secondary enlargement follotoing malignant disease is common, and may be found following epithelioma of the lips, tongue, larynx, carci- noma of the mamma, etc., in the related glands. These, when they are definitely infiltrated, are extremely hard, irregular, and generally painful. They quickly become adherent to neighbour- ing parts and to each other, and grow rapidly. They are also prone to break down in the centre, and so to form spurious cysts. Second- ary sarcomatous enlargements also occur, but less frequently, as after sarcoma of the tonsil or of the salivary glands. The question of removal will naturally depend on the amount of the infiltration, and the site, extent, and duration of the primary lesion. Enlargements of the Thyroid Gland.—These are simple hypertrophy, fibrous or cystic en- largement, pulsating goitre, exophthalmic goitre, and more rarely malignant disease, acute in- flammation, and the condition known as acute goitre. {See "Thyroid Gland, Medical.") Lipomata. — These are by no means un- common. They are found over the nape of the neck and also in the submaxillary region. The neck is also the seat of the large difftise variety of lipoma. The latter form of fatty tumour is best left alone. Nmvi also occur. Fibromata, chondromata, osteomata are all extremely rare. Sterno-mastoid Tumour {sterno-mastoid haema- toma). — This is a localised induration of the sterno-mastoid not infrequently noticed shortly after birth. It is most probably the result of a partial rupture of the muscle during delivery, and not a manifestation of congenital syphilis as has been thought by some. The condition may be followed by torticollis. Ordinary gummata also are sometimes met with in the sterno-mastoid. 34530 NECK, REGION OF Diagnosis.—The main diagnostic points re- garding tumours of the neck have already, in most cases, been touched on. It should be remembered that the principal sign of a thyroid tumour, solid or cystic, is that it moves with deglutition. This sign, however, may occasion- ally be absent in thyroid tumours of great size, and, as has been pointed out above, it may be present in certain other rare swellings. In pulsating swellings of the neck, solid or fluid, the surgeon must be careful to satisfy himself (see " Aneurysm ") that the pulsation felt is not the communicated pulsation of an adjacent artery. Again, in tumours wrider the sterno- mastoid the muscle can generally be displaced to one side; in tumours of the sterno-mastoid they move with the muscle. In many cases the diagnosis of swellings in the neck has to be made by the process of exclusion, and after the removal of all sources of peripheral irritation. In some cases an absolute diagnosis previous to operation cannot be made at all. The greatest difficulties in this respect are presented by the glandular swellings of the neck. Necro-.—in compoimd words necro- (Gr. ve/cpos, a dead body) means relating to death or to a dead body; e.g. necrogenous (growing on dead substances), necropolis (a cemetery), and necroscopy (examination of the body after death). Necrobiosis. — Degeneration and ulti- mate death of the histological elements of the tissues, due to imperfect nutrition; a slower form of death than necrosis. NecromimeslS. — A morbid mental state in which the patient is under the delusion that he is dead. Necrophilism.—The morbid desire for contact with dead bodies, or even for eating the flesh of a corpse. Necrophobia.—Morbid fear of death or of a dead body. Necropsy.—A post-mortem examination or autopsy. See Post-mortem Methods. Necrosis.—Death of a localised part or piece of tissue, e.g. of a bone; mortification. See Bone, Diseases of {Pyogenic Diseases, Necrosis without Suppuration); Coagulation- Necrosis ; Ear, Middle, Chronic Suppuration {Endomastoiditis, Results); Mouth, Injuries and Diseases op Jaw {Inflammatory Diseases and Necrosis); Typhoid Fever {Complications and Sequelce, Necrosis). Necrosis, Colliquative.—Death of the tissues with softening and liquefaction, but without decomposition. Necrosis, Fat.—A form of necrosis may which succeed the fatty degeneration of a part; Balser's necrosis. Necrosis, Maragliano's.—A pro- cess of decoloration which occurs in erythrocytes and changes them into " shadow" corpuscles, described by Maragliano and Castellino as endoglobular necrosis. Necrosis, Phosphorus. See Toxi- cology {Non-metallic Elements, Phosphorus), Needling'.—An operative method of deal- ing with cataract; also an operation recom- mended by Macewen in aneurysm. See Aneurysm {Treatment, Needling). Neem Bark.—The bark of Melia aza- dirachta ; also called Margosa bark. It contains bitter principles and is used as a bitter. It is official in the Indian and Colonial Addendum to the British Pharmacopoeia; and there are two preparations, the Infusum Azadirachtce Indices (dose, ^ to 1 fl. oz.) and the Tinctura Azadirachtce Indicce (dose, to 1 fl. dr.). Ne'ftel'S Disease.—A morbid state in which, while movements can be performed when the patient is recumbent, they cannot be done or only with difficulty when erect. (W. B. Neftel was born in Russia in 1830; died in America, 1906.) Negro Cachexia.—A form of pica or depraved appetite met with in negroes in associa- tion with certain diseases. Negro Lethargy.—Sleeping sickness (g.v.), African lethargy, or Nelavan. Neisser's Coccus.—The gonococcus. Ndlaton's Dislocation. — Disloca- tion upwards at the ankle-joint. See Ankle- JoiNT, Region of. Injuries {Dislocations). N6laton'S Line.—See Hip-Joint, Dis- eases OF {Tuberculosis, Third Stage). It is an imaginary line drawn from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity, and it crosses the hip at the upper border of the great trochanter when no displacement of the latter exists. Nelavan.—See Sleeping Sickness. Nematoda.—The round worms (Gr. vriixa, a thread). See Parasites {Nematodes). Nenndorf.—See Balneology {Germany, Sulphur Waters). NeO-.—In compound words neo- (Gr. veos, young or new) means new, e.g. neoarthrosis (a false joint), neogenesis (regeneration), etc. NecfoetUS. — The transition organism standing between the embryo and foetus as theNEOF(ETUS 531 new-born infant (neonatus) stands between the foetus and the infant; the neofoetal period coincides with the second half of the second month of antenatal life {Ballantyne). Neon.—A chemical element recently dis- covered by Ramsay and Travers in atmospheric air. Neona.tUS.—The new-born infant, or the infant during the first month of life. Diseases peculiar to this neonatal period of life are called morbi neonatorum; e.g. icterus neonatorum (jaun- dice of the new-born), ophthalmia neonatorum (conjunctivitis of the new-born), etc. See New-born Infant (Diseases). Neopallium.—One of the three parts into which the cerebral hemisphere is some- times divided, the other two being the corpus striatum and the rhinencephalon (olfactory bulb and tract, septum lucidum, fornix, hippocampus, etc.); the neopallium, therefore, comprises al- most the whole of the convoluted cortex and the ■white matter associated with it, and its great ■development is peculiar to the human subject. Neopla.SITI.—A new growth or tumour. jSee Tumours. N eOS por i d i a.. —See Parasites (Protozoa). Nepenthe. — A preparation of opium, given in doses similar to those of laudanum. See Opium. Nephalism. — Entire abstinence from alcohol and intoxicants; teetotalism. It is derived from the Greek words vrjcjidXios, drink- ing no wine, and vj;<^a), to be sober. Nephralgia,.—Pain in the kidneys (Gr. ve<f>p6<;, kidney, and aXyos, pain). See Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Stone, etc.). Nephrectomy.—Excision of the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of (Tuber- culosis, Operative Procedures). Nephridium. — The excretory organ of some invertebrates; also, the suprarenal capsule. Nephritis. Introduction 531 Renal Inadequacy . . . .532 Morbid Anatomy op Nephritis . . 532 Acute Nephritis . . . .532 Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever . 533 Chronic Nephritis .... 533 Renal Cirrhosis . . . .534 Etiology 535 Clinical Features of Different Types— Acute Nephritis . . . .538 Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever . 540 Clinical Features of Different Types (contd.) Chronic Nephritis . . . .541 Abnormal Types .... 543 Renal Cirrhosis .... 544 General Diagnosis in Nephritis . . 547 General Prognosis ... 550 Treatment ...... 552 Of Acute Nephritis .... 552 Of Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever 553 Chronic ...... 554 Renal Cirrhosis .... 554 See also Auditory Nerve and Labyrinth (Labyrinthine Deafness from Chronic Nephritis); Burns and Scalds (Pathology, Nephritis); Chlorosis (Diagnosis); Conjunctiva, Diseases of (Various Conditions, Chemosis in Chronic Bright's Disease); Diabetes Mellitus (Termina- tion, Association with Nephritis); Eclampsia (Pathological Anatomy); Gastro-intestinal liDisoRDERS OP Infancy (Chronic Diarrhea, Complications); H^ematuria ; Heart, Affec- tions OF Myocardium and Endocardium (Effects of Cardiac Disease); Kidney, Physiology of ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of ; Lardaceous Degeneration (Amyloid Kidney); Leprosy {Clinical Features in Tubercular Leprosy); Liver, Diseases of (Weil's Disease); Liver, Tropical Affections of (Perihepatitis, Diag- nosis) ; Lungs, Gangrene of (Predisposing Causes); Meninges of the Cerebrum (Acute Meningitis, Etiology); Milk (Koumiss Cure in Nephritis); Mumps (Complications); Pemphigus (Complications); PuLSE; Purpura (Symptomatic, Toxic); Respiration (Cheyne-Stoites Breathing in Urcemia) ; Retina and Optic Nerve (Changes in Retinal Blood- Vessels, in Kidney Disease); Rheumatism, Acute (Symptoms and Course, Renal Affections); Toxicology (Chronic Lead Poisoning); Trades, Dangerous (Lead Poison- ing) ; Typhoid Fever (Complications and Sequelae); Typhus Fever (Complications); Uraemia ; Urine, Pathological Changes in (Phosphates, Albuminuria, Nanthin Bases); Urine, Bacteria in (Nephritis). Nephritis includes several forms of acute and chronic structural disease of the kidney, com- monly associated with albuminuria and dropsy, with urgemic symptoms, and other results of the interference with the normal work of the kidney. Albuminuria may occur in other con- ditions, as in congestion, the result of heart or lung disease, or in obstruction due to emboli; it is also common in numerous febrile conditions, while perhaps it is most frequent in the various functional forms of albuminuria to which the names physiological, dietetic, cyclical, etc. have been applied. In these functional forms albu- minuria may be a prelude to chronic kidney disease, but, as a rule, no serious trouble ensues. In these conditions there is seldom any inter- ference with eliminative woi-k; more definite structural changes, which produce such inter-NEPHRITIS 532 ference, are included under the comprehensive term of nephritis. To express imperfect elimination the term "renal inadequacy" has been employed. It is somewhat unfortunate that this term has been used in two different senses. Sir Andrew Clark [Brit. Med. Joiirn., 1884) described a class of cases in which, although the kidney pre- sented no alteration of structure, it was unable to produce a perfectly healthy urine. In these the urine is low in density and deficient in solids; he considered that with this renal inadequacy there is a curious inability to repair damage by accident or disease, and that there is great uncertainty as to the result of the per- formance of an ordinary surgical operation. This form of inadequacy is often regarded as an early pre-albuminuric stage of renal cirrhosis. In another variety the same term has been used to denote an imperfect elimination of fluid, with resulting concentration ; in these, cardiac hyper- trophy is absent, but there is marked myo- cardial weakness and disturbance of the digestive system, symptoms which correspond with hysteri- cal anuria, though it may perhaps have to be regarded as due to nephritis following lithiasis. Morbid Anatomy of Nephritis The morbid anatomy of nephritis may be the more conveniently studied if we remember that the different structures of the kidney may frequently be affected independently, and that when different structures are concurrently affected, the extent to which each part is involved is liable to great variations. Thvis the tubules and their epithelium, which together constitute the parenchyma of the kidney, some- times show the most marked alterations, and this is especially seen in most of the acute forms of kidney disease. In chronic conditions the interstitial tissue, which in the healthy kidney is only present in small quantity, may increase considerably as the result of inflammatory processes; and, thirdly, the blood-vessels and the glomeruli appear liable to separate attection, and, indeed, the epithelial cells, which coat the capillaries of the glomerulus, have been de- scribed as undergoing an inflammatory process, which, for some authors, constitutes the primary and perhaps the most important change. Acute Nephritis Syn.—Acute desquamative nephritis, acute tubal nephritis, acute parenchymatous nephritis, acute Bright's disease. In acute nephritis the primary changes are undoubtedly connected with the tubules and glomeruli, and these changes are found to be fairly constant when the kidney is examined microscopically, although the size, shape, and general appearance of the kidney are largely dependent upon the stage the disease has reached when death occurs. Sometimes the kidney is very little larger than the normal, the cortex is of a dark colour, and the glomeruli stand out as minute pale spots. Sometimes the kidney is increased considerably in size ; it may indeed be swollen to almost twice its normal bulk. It then has a more rounded appearance than usual; the capsule can be separated easily, and the surface is pale. On section, the increase in size is found to be due mainly to an increase in the thickness of the cortex, which is of a greyish-red colour, while the central portions, the pyramids, are of a deeper red, owing to the congestion of their vessels. Frequently, both on the surface and on section, bright red spots are found. Sometimes these are due to minute haemorrhages, sometimes to engorgement of the glomeruli. In the third variety of acute nephritis the degree of congestion is very much greater, so that the colour is dark red or brown, and on section the kidneys have been described as "dripping with blood." On examination microscopically changes are found in the tubes, in the interstitial tissue, and in the glomeruli. The change within the tubes mostly consists in a peculiar opaque appearance of the epithelial cells; these may be swollen or granular, or they may be filled with fat granules, and they frequently tend to separate readily from the wall of the tubule. The lumen is often obliterated by debris of altered epithelial cells, leucocytes, and coagu- lated albuminous fluid; and sometimes the tubules appear to be blocked with a compact mass of blood corpuscles. Hyaline, epithelial, and blood casts are often seen, both in the cortex and in the looped tubules of the pyramids. When the kidneys are large it is frequently found that leucocytes have exuded, and have been accompanied by an inflammatory fluid; these exudations are most marked near the Malpighian capsules. The glomerular changes, upon which some authors lay great stress, have been described as a form of capsulitis. The capsule is distended by a finely granular mass, enclosing numerous small nuclei, and sometimes haemorrhages occur within the capsule. Klebs, Klein, and Greenfield consider that the nuclei of the capillary tufts in the glomerulus pro- liferate, and that this proliferation is accom- panied by an excessive growth of nuclei within the capsule, which leads to adhesion between it and the glomerulus, and ultimately to com- pression and atrophy of the latter. These lesions are sometimes limited to a few of the glomeruli, but they have been also described as affecting a very large proportion of them. This condition has been termed glomerular nephritis, and it appears to be most common in the form of acute nephritis consecutive to scarlet fever. In such cases the lesions within the tubules have been considered to be secondary to the- abolition of the work of the glomerulus.NEPHRITIS 533 The transition from the morbid anatomy of acute nephritis to that of chronic nephritis is extremely ill-defined, and this doubtless is the explanation of the great variation in the appear- ances which have been described. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.—When death occurs in the course of scarlet fever, or during convalescence from this disease, the kidneys are almost invariably found to be greatly altered in appearance. Friedlander describes three distinct changes in the kidney associated with scarlet fever: (1) Initial catar- rhal, the usual form; (2) the large, limp, hsemorrhagic kidney, interstitial septic form; and (3) nephritis, post-scarlatinosa, the glo- merular form. Friedlander's initial catarrhal form probably coincides with the appeara,nces of febrile albumi- nuria or abortive nephritis, and is found when there may have been no special renal symptoms, and when death has resulted from some other complication. The septic form may also have attracted very little attention during life; hsematuria and much albuminuria are rare with this condition. The third form constitutes scarlatinal nephritis, and for descriptive purposes it will be convenient to separate three broadly differentiated types. When death has occurred during the first or second week the kidneys are very little altered in size ; they are engorged, and the capsule can be readily separated. The surface may show radiating red lines of injection or small extra- vasations. On section the whole parenchyma may be of a chocolate hue from intense en- gorgement. From the second to the sixth week the kidneys are enlarged and firm, and the surface is pale and mottled with yellowish spots. These appear- ances extend through the cortical layer, but the medullary substance is hypersemic, from its junction with the cortex almost to the ends of the papillae. The hypereemia is often associated with strige of a deep colour passing along the pyramids. At a later stage contraction occurs, so that the kidneys may be of normal size, or even somewhat smaller. They may still be pale, but they are more firm, and may even be rather difficult to cut. The microscopic changes in scarlatinal neph- ritis mainly affect the glomeruli and the tissues in their neighbourhood. In the early stages the vessels in these parts are found to be crowded with masses of corpuscles, which are most numerous between the vessels of the tuft of capillaries, while they are also frequently found in considerable numbers outside the tuft, but within Bowman's capsule. The vessels of the tuft sometimes rupture, and Bowman's cap- sule becomes filled with blood corpuscles, which are often seen extending down the tubules; compact masses of corpuscles due to haemorrhage may also be found in lines between the tubules. The epithelial cells in the convoluted tubes are enlarged and cloudy, and they may almost obli- terate the lumen, which is further obstructed by granular debris and casts. Similar changes affect the epithelial cells lining Bowman's capsule. At a later stage the round cells in the neighbour- hood of the vessels and round the capsules of the glomeruli proliferate, and the epithelial cells lining Bowman's capsule undergo rapid desqua- mation ; hence the space between the tuft and the capsule is filled with collections of exfoliated epithelium. The capillary tufts may be engorged so that they occupy the whole of the space with- in the capsule, or they may be compressed and relatively empty, owing to the pressure exerted upon them by the desquamated epithelium and the hsemorrhagic effusions. During contraction in the third stage Bow- man's capsule is much thickened, and the whole Malpighian body is larger than usual, owing to the increase of nucleated cells surrounding and com- pressing the capillary tuft. Similar increase of connective-tissue corpuscles is found round the outside of Bowman's capsule, and between the convoluted tubes, which may be compressed and distorted by the new growth. The epithelial cells of the convoluted tubes are generally flat- tened at this stage, and the lumen, which may be larger than in the normal condition, is often filled with debris and casts. In all stages the interlobular arteries are thickened and prominent, the extent of change increasing with the duration of the disease. Chronic Nephritis Syn, — Chronic parenchymatous nephritis, chronic tubal nephritis, chronic catarrhal ne- phritis. The macroscopic appearances of the kidney in chronic nephritis are subject to great variations. Thus, cases which are practically indistinguish- able, so far as symptoms are concerned, may be associated with either large white kidney, or with the smaller granular kidney, or with the speckled kidney. The microscopic examination will, however, generally indicate fundamental points of resemblance. If the disease terminates within a year of the first development of symp- toms, the kidney is, as a rule, found to be larger than usual. Sometimes this enlargement is extreme, and the kidneys may be from twice to three times the normal size. The capsule is usually readily detached, and the surface is smooth and somewhat pale; sometimes after removal of the capsule the surface is finely granvi- lar, and perhaps somewhat torn. There are usually stellate haemorrhages or engorgements of the stellate veins. On section, whitish or yellowish streaks and spots may be found in the cortex, as though the kidneys had been strewn with fine sand. The cortex is considerably thickened, and may nearly equal the thickness534 NEPHRITIS of the cones. The cones are of a darker red colour, and contrast with the pale cortex. Microscopic examination shows that the changes are not uniformly distributed, but affect certain areas, while intervening tracts of tissue appear to be normal. All the structures of the kidney may, however, be involved ; in the con- voluted tubes the epithelium is generally swollen, cloudy, and less transparent than usual; the degree of swelling may be sufficient almost to occlude the tubule, and also to interfere with the freedom of circulation. The combined result of distension of the tubes and of the compression of the blood-vessels is seen in the white or grey colour of the cortex. Sometimes, however, the tubules are found with the epithelium desqua- mated or proliferating ; or they may be entirely denuded of epithelium. Occasionally the renal epithelium is replaced by thin, flattened cells, the lumen of the tube being much increased in diameter. The extent to which the interstitial tissue is affected will also vary considerably. It is generally considered that there is cellular infiltration between the tubiiles, which leads to the formation of fibrous connective tissue and subsequent contraction. This development of interstitial tissue may ultimately produce irregu- larities of the surface and partial adhesion of the capsule. The changes affecting the Malpighian tufts are similar to those of acute nephritis. As the result of subsequent changes, however, the glomeruli appear more or less atrophied, while the capsule of Bowman is thickened, and its epithelial lining has undergone degeneration. Frequently the Malpighian tuft is infiltrated with leucocytes, and the surrounding tissue also presents an excess of nuclei. Greenfield has described three changes connected with the capsule : (1) Pericapsulitis, or cellular infiltra- tion, and tissue formation occurring chiefly out- side ; (2) hyaline thickening of the capsule itself; (3) endo-capsulitis, or the formation of concentric laminae of cells and tissue inside the capsule, between it and the glomerular tiift. In chronic cases these concentric laminae are due to a new formation between the capsule and the tuft, and the capillaries meanwhile undergo hyaline thickening. The capsule, in advanced cases, is striated and concentrically thickened, and blends with the sclerosed glomerular tuft. These changes are not invariably present; they are most common in chronic nephritis originating in scarlatinal nephritis. The branches of small arteries within the kidney are invariably found to be considerably thickened, the hypertrophy affecting the muscular coat. Some thickening, however, of the fibrous wall of the vessel must also be recognised. The vessels may be engorged, and some of the tubes may often be filled with blood, while in other parts they may contain casts. The increase in the size of the kidney is due to inflammatory deposits in the parenchyma and interstitial tissues. If, however, the over- growth of interstitial elements is associated with marked atrophy of the parenchyma, the kidney may not appear to have undergone much altera- tion in size. On the other hand, if the new connective tissue undergoes contraction, the size, weight, and appearance of the kidney will differ greatly from the appearances above described. The kidney, however, remains more pale and mottled than in the normal condition, and, though the surface may become uneven and granular, the colour alone indicates that the case is one of contracted white kidney, instead of being one of small red granular or cirrhosed kidney. When the kidney is thus diminished in size the chief change affects the cortex, which becomes narrower, and on microscopic examination wide tracts of fibrous tissue, almost homogeneous in appearance, may be found lying either immedi- ately below the capsule or in the course of the interlobular arteries. In this tissue, atrophied tubes, Malpighian bodies, and blood-vessels may be found, and small cysts often result from blocking of the tubes. From the above it will be seen that although the macroscopic appearances of the kidney are so dissimilar, yet the microscopic changes are those which might be anticipated as the result of a chronic process; in fact, the difference in appearance depends largely upon the length of time that has elapsed between the commence- ment of the disease and its termination. The parenchymatous changes may be more apparent in the earlier stages of the large white kidney, while the interstitial changes predominate in the later conditions, but all the tissues are simultaneously affected, and the size of the kidney seems to depend upon the degree of contraction and atrophy that has succeeded the inflammatory process. The tendency of chronic nephritis is towards atrophy and contraction, and most observers consider that when the kidney is small, pale, with a narrow cortex and granular surface, there has been an earlier stage in which it was enlarged, white, and with a thickened cortex. Renal Cirrhosis Syn. — Chronic interstitial nephritis, red granular kidney, chronic gouty nephritis. In advanced forms of renal cirrhosis the kid- neys are very much diminished in size, but both are rarely affected to the same extent. The combined weight may be even less than that of a single normal kidney. Corresponding with the diminution in size an increase in the amount of perirenal fat is usually to be noticed. In the early stages of the disease, however, there may be very little alteration in the size or colour of the kidneys, and the most prominent character- istic may be increase in the thickness of the capsule and the greater difficulty of its detach-NEPHRITIS 535 ment. Even when this last condition is met with, the cortex may be very much diminished, as seen on section. Generally the surface of the kidney is roughened and granular, and of a deep reddish-brown colour. Sometimes the roughened granular surface is covered with little yellow spots, and frequently small cysts may be found near the surface of the kidney. Though the cysts are, as a rule, extremely minute, they may be from a quarter to half an inch in diameter. Occasionally small white nodules may be found similarly dotted about near the surface. The kidney as a whole is firm and resistant, being at times rather difficult to cut, owing to the increased amount of fibrous tissue. Frequently the degree of contraction of the kidney is somewhat masked by the dilata- tion of the pelvis, which is filled or even dis- tended with an excessive amount of adipose tissue. On section the diminution in the size is seen to be mainly due to the diminution in the thick- ness of the cortex, the proportion of cortex to medulla bearing the relation of a fifth to a sixth, instead of from a third to a fourth, as in the healthy kidney. The cysts and white nodules above mentioned are more evident in the cut surface, and, in addition, cicatricial tissue may often be observed spreading inwards from the cortex. The Malpighian bodies are sometimes reduced in size as well as in number, and microscopically they are found to be irregular in shape, and situated nearer to the trunk of the artery than usual. They are frequently found immediately below the capsule of the kidney, instead of being separated from it by a short interval. The pyramidal portions of the kidney are generally of a dark colour, and white lines sometimes occupy the position of the straight tubes of the medulla, and indicate the presence of crystalline deposits of urates. Microscopic examination brings out the changes of the kidney in a more marked manner, since triangular wedges of fibrous tissue, apparently devoid of true gland struc- ture, are rendered more evident in stained specimens. The development of fibrous tissue is extremely irregular; portions of gland struc- ture, apparently in a healthy condition, may intervene; sometimes in the triangular patches numerous nuclei are seen ; at other times the nuclei are more rare, and the tissue appears more distinctly fibrillated and organised. Com- pressed and atrophic tubules are occasionally found scattered amongst the new tissue, and if these contain epithelium the cells usually are in a state of fatty degeneration. The connective tissue round the convoluted tubes is very often increased in amount, and the capsules are greatly thickened by proliferation, which tends to en- croach upon the space normally occupied by the glomerular tuft, and may ultimately lead to obliteration of the glomerulus. These atrophic changes in connection with the Malpighian tufts are often regarded as the earliest features of cirrhosis of the kidney, while the atrophy of the tubules and the development of the inter- stitial changes are regarded as secondary results. The tubes appear, in some cases, to be de- nuded of their epithelium; in others to be some- what distended. Occasionally in the atrophic tissue they may be plugged with colloid material, and distinct casts of considerable diameter may be found. The white nodules mentioned above are seen on microscopic exa- mination to consist of small accumulations of epithelial cells. In the straight tubes of the pyramids the epithelium, as a rule, is normal, but they are sometimes filled with crystals of urate of sodium. The blood-vessels of the kidney are often markedly altered ; considerable discussion has arisen as to whether these changes affecting the smallest arteries are secondary to the alterations in the kidney above described, or whether they are primary changes which precede the altera- tions in the gland structure. The main change in the small arteries is an increase in the thickness of the walls together with diminution in their calibre. This may be due to an overgrowth of the intima, occurring without material proliferation of nuclei, and may almost entirely occlude the blood-vessel. This alteration corresponds closely with the endarteritis obliterans described by Cornil and Ranvier. Another change in the small arteries consists in the hyaline fibroid degeneration, which was originally described as arterio-capillary fibrosis. Muscular hypertrophy undoubtedly occurs at a very early stage of renal cirrhosis, and according to Dr. Dickinson, it is to be ascribed to some assumed change in the structure of the capil- laries, rather than to cardiac hypertrophy, as originally believed by Sir George Johnson. It is certain that increase in the thickness of the wall of the left ventricle is invariably associated with renal contraction. Sometimes this hyper- trophy occurs with some dilatation of the cavity, but in the early stages it is far more frequent for the dilatation to be comparatively slight, although the hypertrophy may be sufficient to cause alteration in the position of the apex beat. As the disease advances, and especially towards the termination, dilatation of the heart becomes more frequent; hence, to a certain extent, the position of the apex beat and the area of cardiac dulness may be taken as indications of the stage of the disease. Etiology Amte Nephritis. — Acute nephritis occurs mostly in young adults, and it is more frequent amongst males, probably owing to exposure. It is also more common amongst the middle and labouring classes, on account of their occupation, clothing, and habits.NEPHRITIS 536 Cold is one of the most common causes of acute nephritis, especially during exhaustion from work or exercise, or when the skin is actively perspiring. Among the labouring classes the danger is greatest when the work is irregular, leading to great muscular activity and subsequent chill. It has also been frequently produced by cold and wet, affecting those who are heated by hunting or by cycling, while ex- posure after dissipation has also resulted in this disease. Amongst children it is relatively rare to find acute nephritis attributable to cold, imless the individual has previously suffered from one of the exanthemata, notably scarlet fever. Next in importance, as far as etiology is con- cerned, stand various febrile diseases, such as smallpox, measles, erysipelas, typhoid, and pneu- monia. The nephritis caused by these maladies is sometimes slight and abortive, and is limited chiefly to the time of the pyrexia. Such mild cases constitute " Febrile Albuminuria." Occa- sionally, however, acute nephritis associated with these diseases may be accompanied by the more prominent symptoms of the serious malady, such as dropsy and hsematuria. Henoch has recorded four cases of nephritis which were apparently the result of chicken-pox. The frequent connection of these diseases with renal changes has led to the employment of the term "acute infective nephritis." Micro- organisms are, however, absent in most cases of nephritis, and it is generally held that the renal changes are due to the action of toxic materials which result from the growth of specific organ- isms within the body. Numerous drugs may cause acute nephritis, especially those which are eliminated by the kidney, such as cantharides, turpentine, copaiba, phosphorus, and alcohol. Mostly, however, the influence of toxic agents is limited to the pro- duction of temporary congestion, rather than of true nephritis. Extensive injury to the skin by disease, by burns, or by a lightning stroke, may sometimes excite acute nephritis, either by direct inter- ference with the functions of the skin, or by general depression of the temperature of the body. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.—^ome maintain that albuminuria in the course of scarlet fever indicates structural disease of the kidney, which under adverse circumstances may pass on to the formation of acute and chronic disease. Although the frequency both of albu- minuria and of nephritis must be admitted, there is very little certain knowledge as to the exact causation of nephritis in an individual case, and in some epidemics renal changes are more frequent than in others. Nephritis is said to be especially likely to occur when the cervical glands become secondarily enlarged after once subsiding; the influence of a high fever has also been suggested. The actual severity of the original attack of fever appears to have no causal relation to the production of nephritis ; in fact, my own experience would lead me rather to consider that nephritis is unusually common amongst children in whom the original febrile attack has been slight. Nephritis, as a complication of scarlet fever, is uncommon during the first year of life, and the frequency increases rapidly up to the fifth year, after which time it gradually decreases. It is somewhat more frequent in males (3 to 2), and it is also more fatal to males, while the mortality is greater the younger the patient. The disease usually occurs after the twelfth or fourteenth day, or during the early part of the third week. Occasionally nephritis is not discovered until the fourth, fifth, or sixth week, but in such cases it has probably existed for a greater length of time. The immediate exciting cause of scarlatinal nephritis is generally held to be exposure to cold during desquamation, but recent observations indicate that cold weather per se has very little influence in producing albuminuria. There is, however, an apparent connection with the degree of humidity of the atmosphere. Damp, cold, or muggy days favour the development of fresh cases, while the return of bright weather is frequently accompanied by rapid improvement. The view generally held at the present time is that the renal changes are due to irritation by some toxic material resulting from the growth of micro-organisms in the system. These changes may be almost quiescent until they receive a sudden impulse from the con- gestion brought about in a reflex manner through exposure to cold, or through climatic conditions. Chronic Nephritis Chronic nephritis is usually the result of acute nephritis, and occurs somewhat later in life. Frequently there is a distinct interval between the attack of acute nephritis and the first symptoms of chronic nephritis, though if the urine is tested daily small quantities of albumin may be found, either persistently or occasionally. The symptoms of chronic nephritis are mostly observed between the ages of twenty- five and forty, and in this respect the condition differs essentially from cirrhosis of the kidney (chronic interstitial nephritis), which occurs more commonly between the ages of forty and fifty, or fifty and sixty. Scarlet Fever.—Many cases of chronic nephritis result from acute scarlatinal nephritis, and there is reason to believe that chronic nephritis may even follow this disease without the recog- nition of the acute stage. If the symptoms of scarlatinal nephritis are slight, and if dropsy is not present, the disease may be overlooked, and, in the absence of treatment, may become chronic.NEPHRITIS 537 Cold.—The influence of cold in the production of acute nephritis has already been mentioned, and there is common agreement that frequent exposure to wet, and residence in damp and cold climates, also favour the onset of the chronic form. It is somewhat doubtful, how- ever, whether the cold acts as a direct cause of nephritis, or whether it merely increases predisposition to the disease. It has been suggested that congestion due to cold might develop an old-standing nephritis — that, for instance, after various exanthemata, more particularly scarlet fever, some permanent damage is done to the kidney, which causes no symptoms until engorgement, the result of exposure, once more starts the morbid processes. Fregnancy.—Pregnancy has been sometimes assigned as a cause of chronic nephritis. As a rule the albuminuria of puerperal nephritis subsides soon after delivery, and when the albuminuria is persistent, there appears to be little doubt that the nephritis originated previously and independently of pregnancy. Chronic Suppuration.—Chronic suppuration from phthisis, necrosed bone, or other cause, may produce chronic affection of the kidneys. The change that results is usually a form of lardaceous disease, but this alteration is very frequently accompanied by chronic nephritis. The lardaceous changes are as a rule more advanced in children, while the nephritic changes are more marked in adults. Malaria.—The influence of malaria as an etiological factor for chronic nephritis is open to considerable doubt. Some authors have associated chronic nephritis with malarial dis- tricts, but there is very little to show that a pure form of nephritis may result from malarial influences. Observations made in Algiers and Bombay show, however, that in these places the association of chronic Bright's disease with malaria is as marked as it is in colder climates ; hence the supposition that malarial nephritis is essentially due to exposure to cold scarcely seems tenable. Syphilis.—The connection with syphilis is fairly close, and chronic changes within the kidney may occur independently of the growth of renal gummata. Toxic Agents,~ln some cases chronic nephritis has been attributed to the use of mercury, while lead is also said to cause a form of chronic inflammation of the kidneys of the same nature. The connection between chronic nephritis and lead poisoning is not so strong as between gout and lead poisoning, which are so often associated with cirrhosis of the kidney. Alcohol.—The relation of chronic alcoholism to chronic nephritis is less open to dispute, though it is more likely to lead to renal cirrhosis than to chronic nephritis. Secondary to other Conditions. — Chronic nephritis occurs fairly commonly as the result of chronic diseases of the urinary passages. Chronic stricture of the urethra, purulent cystitis and prostatitis, and calculous pyelitis may give rise to chronic nephritis associated with lardaceous changes. Renal Cirrhosis In a disease which is so chronic in its nature, the etiology necessarily becomes somewhat un- certain. It is often impossible, in any particular case, to ascribe the origin conclusively to any definite exciting cause. Age.—\t is very rare to find this form of kidney disease amongst children, or even amongst young adults. Towards middle life, however, the tendency to cirrhosis is greatly increased; the majority of cases occur between the ages of forty and sixty, while from thirty to forty the proportion is about equal to that which occurs between sixty and seventy. It must be remembered that this form of kidney trouble is likely to escape observation ; and it may have existed for years previous to the actual recognition. Most of the cases of albu- minuria met with in assurance work fall into two classes, both marked by the presence of traces of albumin, and by the slight character or the total absence of symptoms. The age of the proposer is of importance in diff"erentiating these two classes. While slight albuminuria during early life is often to be regarded as functional or intermittent, the slight trace of albumin in later middle age is generally the result of contracted kidney. Sex.—Males are more frequently aff'ected than females. According to Fagge the pro- portion is almost exactly in the ratio of two to one. Others have placed the proportion more highly. Heredity.—Although the hereditary character of renal cirrhosis has attracted the attention of numerous observers, the hereditary tendency is not so marked as in the case of phthisis or cancer. It is frequently interesting to note the occurrence of cirrhosis or other forms of kidney trouble in various members of a family, and although it is customary to regard this associa- tion as pointing to the hereditary character of cirrhosis of the kidney, it may be questioned whether it does not point rather to the heredi- tary character of the conditions likely to produce the disease. This contention is largely sup- ported by the frequent association of cirrhosis of the kidney with gouty tendencies. Gout.—The intimate connection of renal cirrhosis with gout has long been recognised. It is generally held that gout predisposes to the development of renal cirrhosis, and I have often seen the gradual development of albuminuria with repeated attacks of gout. It has been held, however, that gout may be the consequence rather than the cause of the renal affection, and that it results from the failure of the kidney to538 NEPHRITIS perform its normal eliminative function. It is far more probable that renal cirrhosis follows from the constant irritation of uric acid in the solid form within the substance of the kidney. Although allowing that gout may occasionally be consecutive to cirrhosis of the kidney, I hold that it is far more frequently to be regarded as the cause. It is mainly in recognition of the association of these conditions that most assurance offices are in the habit of charging an extra premium in cases of repeated gout. Dyspepsia. — Like the preceding condition, dyspepsia has been regarded both as the cause and as the result of renal cirrhosis. While admitting that disorders of digestion may frequently be responsible for transient forms of albuminuria, there is some doubt whether chronic renal affection is to be started in this way, or whether when prolonged dyspepsia is found to be accompanied by permanent slight albuminuria, dyspepsia is not to be looked upon as a symptom of the disease rather than as an etiological factor. Habits.—Renal cirrhosis frequently arises in patients who have been accustomed to eat and drink to excess. Large quantities of nitrogenous foods lead to an undue amount of work being thrown upon the kidney. If at the same time these patients take a relatively small proportion of liquid the urine becomes concentrated, and the tendency to the formation of uric acid and of oxalates is increased. Neuroses. — The depression resulting from emotional causes, prolonged anxiety, worry, or grief, seems to have some direct influence, although it is extremely difficult to explain how disease of the kidney is thus produced. It is possible that the nervous influence may disturb the digestive system, or may lead to intemperate habits. Sometimes mental depression may merely favour the rapid development of pre- existing disease; sometimes it may contribute to gouty attacks; but whether nervous depres- sion by itself can produce cirrhosis remains somewhat doubtful. In spite of the frequency with which mental anxiety appears to be distinctly associated with this disease, there may be no true etiological connection, inasmuch as cirrhosis, a disease of middle age, occurs at a time when mental disturbances, from financial difficvilties or other causes of anxiety, are likely to arise. Lead Poisoning. — Similar uncertainty sur- rounds the supposed connection between lead poisoning and cirrhosis of the kidney. There is no doubt about the frequent association of lead poisoning and gout, and many observers have attempted to explain the influence of lead poisoning as contributing to the occurrence of gout, which in turn leads on to renal cirrhosis. Climatic Conditions.—Cirrhosis of the kidney appears to be more frequent in temperate climates; hence it has frequently been held that it is favoured by damp and by rapid alterations of temperature. Chronic irritation of the bladder or of the urethra by stricture, or of the pelvis of the kidney by means of a renal calculus, may occasionally induce cirrhosis of the kidney, but far more commonly these causes lead to con- secutive nephritis. Clinical Features op the Different Types Acute Nephritis. — The commencement of acute nephritis is indicated by chills or slight rigors, which are followed by a varying period of a typical pyrexia. The temperature may be only slightly raised, or it may reach 103° or 104:° Fahr. The pulse-rate is proportionately raised and its volume may be increased. The tongue is furred and the bowels are constipated. When the nephritis originates in one of the infectious diseases (with the exception of scarlet fever) the onset is rarely marked by such defi- nite symptoms, and unless the urine is tested the commencement may escape observation. The Urine.—From the first there is notable diminution in the quantity of urine passed, and occasionally the execretion of urine is almost totally arrested. When the disease is fully established the amount generally varies from 6 to 16 ounces in the twenty-four hours, and there is frequent desire to micturate, only a few drops being passed at a time with much strain- ing. The specific gravity of the water may be as high as 1030 or 1040. When improvement commences and the quantity is augmented, the specific gravity falls more nearly to the normal. Generally, during the acute stage the reaction of the urine is acid, and quantities of albumin are present. The colour is dark reddish brown, turbid and smoky, and the sediment, which is abundant, is composed largely of blood casts, blood corpuscles, renal epithelium and granular urates, or crystals of uric acid and calcium oxalate. Blood corpuscles and epithelial cells generally predominate, but casts are always present, though their prevailing type changes as the disease progresses. At first blood casts and epithelial casts are especially numerous, but when the case is becoming more chronic they are replaced by granular casts and fatty casts, which accordingly afford valuable indications of the stage of the disease. In spite of the high specific gravity of the urine the daily elimination of solids is generally diminished. The urea is decreased in quantity from 25 per cent to 50 per cent, and the chlorides similarly undergo great diminution. Pain.—Complaint may be made of uneasiness or discomfort in the region of the kidneys. This may amount to actual pain, extending along the ureters to the bladder ; but pain, when present, is mostly connected with the act of micturition, rather than with the degree of539 NEPHRITIS inflammation of the kidney. As a rule, renal affections of prolonged course are not associated with lumbar pain, and to a certain extent this fact is to be explained by the comparative absence of nerves of common sensation in con- nection with the kidney. There is, it is true, a free supply of sensory nerves to the capsule and the pelvis of the kidney, but these are only likely to be influenced by affections causing sudden distension of the kidney; with inflam- matory diseases of the kidney, pain or discomfort, if present, is generally reflected to some other site. Dropsy.—When acute nephritis is due to cold, dropsy is one of the commonest and earliest indications, and it is frequently the first which attracts attention. In mild cases it may com- mence about the legs and the cheeks; the latter may be found puffy on first rising. The oedema usually commences in the lower eyelids, and the conjunctivae are affected at the same time, hence the eyes appear brighter than usual. The oedema may spread rapidly to the trunk and the extremities; even in mild cases the feet may be swollen towards evening when the oedema has, to a great extent, disappeared from the face. When the dropsy is only slight the general appearance is much like that of chlorosis. It is more common, however, to find the whole trunk oedematous, the oedema generally being most marked in dependent parts. Considerable swelling is often found at the lower part of the back, constituting the well-known lumbar pad. The genitals, especially the prepuce, may be affected, and the oedema may be so excessive as to interfere with micturition. As the subcutaneous tissue becomes infil- trated the serous sacs may be involved. The abdominal cavity may contain fluid, and occa- sionally an increase of serum may be detected in the pleura and in the pericardium. Still more dangerous, but fortunately more rare, is oedema of the glottis, which develops with extreme rapidity, and may lead to asphyxia. Digestive System.—Interference with digestion is frequent. The appetite is bad, especially during the pyrexia; the tongue is furred, and there is usually constipation, though later this may be replaced by diarrhoea independently of treatment. This diarrhoea has been attributed to a natural effort to eliminate excretory matters. During the early stages nausea and vomiting are also frequent; they may possibly be reflex symptoms, but at a later stage, in all probability, the vomiting is of ursemic origin, and when un- controllable it presents a serious complication. Circulatory System.—It has generally been held that the circulatory system is not materi- ally affected in the early stages of acute nephritis, and the changes connected with the heart and smaller arteries are commonly con- sidered to occur with chronic renal affections, or to develop with the transition from the acute to the chronic stage. Dr. Dickinson, however, has suggested that from the beginning of acute kidney trouble there is some alteration of the wall of the capillaries, and he considers that this alteration, if permanent, contributes largely to the subsequent hypertrophy of the arterioles and of the left ventricle. Sometimes acute enlargement of the left ventricle may occur, but this is usually a transient feature. Anaemia is an early and characteristic symp- tom ; it may result from the loss of albumin or from great hajmaturia. When the pallor is very rapidly developed in connection with dropsy, it is in all probability due rather to the infiltration of the tissues with serum than to blood changes. In advanced cases of acute nephritis the red corpuscles of the blood are always reduced in number; the albumin is diminished, and the serum contains a large proportion of water; in addition, it is common to find in the blood either urea, uric acid, or both, and perhaps other urinary derivatives. Pericarditis may occur, and when the effusion is purulent in character the disease nearly always terminates fatally. In acute nephritis it is very rare to meet with epistaxis or to find haemorrhages in the retina. Respiratory System.—Alterations in the re- spiratory system only occur as complications. Pleurisy, bronchitis, and pneumonia may de- velop in severe cases, and may hasten a fatal termination; the pleurisy is especially danger- ous since it is frequently purulent. It is not vmcommon, however, for mild cases of acute nephritis to be associated with slight pulmonary engorgement; the degree of engorgement mostly varies inversely with the amount of fluid in the pleural cavity. Slight congestion of the lungs is not necessarily a serious complication. Nervous System.—The effects upon the nervous system may develop with considerable rapidity. In the early stages headache is commonly present; it may merely be a dull sense of weight, or it may be very intense. When the urine is very much reduced ursemic convulsions may suddenly appear, and in some cases they are of a hemiplegic type. During the convul- sions the temperature may rise, but afterwards it is mostly subnormal. The convulsion is often succeeded by coma. Sometimes several convul- sions occur at short intervals, the patient re- maining comatose in the intervals; and the depth of the coma may increase after each attack of convulsions. Occasionally after con- vulsions there may be partial or complete blindness. Uraemic amaurosis is mostly a transient symptom, and in its short duration differs from the amaurosis of chronic forms of kidney disease. The uraemic convulsions are the expression of the retention of toxic materials, and unless the case terminates early in a con- vulsion the nervous symptoms usually speedily pass away.NEPHRITIS 540 Course and Duration.—The initial rise of temperature may continue for four or five days, or at most for a week, but very often the patients are first seen when the temperature is normal or only slightly raised. The early symptoms which are then noted are those of dropsy and of alteration in the urine. The dropsy varies with the amount of urine, hence in the first few days the dropsical condition is generally more marked than later; sometimes, however, when the suppression of urine is pro- gressive instead of sudden, the dropsy may reach its highest stage towards the end of the second week. In most attacks the dropsy develops with great rapidity, and undergoes consider- able improvement with the re-establishraent of the work of the kidney. Under favourable conditions there is speedy diminution in the amount of albumin, blood corpuscles, and casts, and the urine, from being a deep red or smoky tint, regains its normal appearance in a few days. If, on the other hand, the quantity of urine progressively diminishes, secondary affec- tions of the nervous system are likely to arise, and the patient may die from acute uraemia. Occasionally the onset is more gradual, and the symptoms are less marked. There may be progressive diminution in the quantity of urine, gradual increase in the extent of the dropsical effusions, and indications of secondary affections of the lungs or of the various serous membranes. The favourable progress of cases of acute neph- ritis is sometimes interfered with by distinct relapses, in which the symptoms resemble those of the primary attack. Such relapses are mostly attributed to alterations of temperature, ex- posure to cold, or to the premature use of ordinary forms of diet. In all probability these relapses indicate an extension of inflammation to some portion of the kidney previously un- affected, and hence they constitute not only an immediate danger, but they further imperil the patient's chances of ultimate recovery. With cases that are doing well it is generally found that the amount of urine exceeds the normal quantity, since the kidneys have to remove a large quantity of dropsical material. Hence the colour of the urine is diminished, the specific gravity is reduced, and the amount of albumin decreases rapidly, the decrease affecting the total quantity of albumin passed in the day, as well as the percentage in any particular specimen. As the patient progresses towards recovery the nature of the sediment alters, epithelial cells and free blood corpuscles become less numerous, and the epithelial and blood casts are gradually replaced by hyaline and granular casts, which in turn decrease in number, and may ultimately disappear. Although the above is true of a large number of cases of acute nephritis, it unfortunately fre- quently happens that after a certain degree of rapid progress the improvement appears to come to a standstill, and although the amount of urine passed differs little from the normal quantity, yet it contains traces of albumin which may vary slightly from day to day. The casts also become more granular, and fatty casts may be found. These indications of lack of progress are sometimes accompanied by per- sistence of slight dropsy. These symptoms always cause anxiety about the ultimate re- covery of the patient, as they indicate a tend- ency to a gradual transition from the acute to the chronic form. From the above account it will be seen that it is impossible to predict the course or the duration of any case of acute nephritis. To- wards the end of the first week the improvement may be rapid, and the patient may seem to be convalescing; yet it is not safe to build too much upon such rapid improvement, and the patient must be kept in bed, and the diet must be regulated, even though the albumin has disappeared, and convalescence appears to be established. Usually the duration of an acute attack varies from two to six weeks, but when relapses occur recovery may be delayed for eight weeks or more. If after this time albumin is still found, while the hsematuria has dis- appeared, and if casts, especially granular and fatty casts, are still present, the case must be regarded as having passed into the chronic stage. When a fatal termination occurs it may be due to the extent of the dropsy or to the severity of other complications. Great accumulations of fluid in the pleura or peri- cardium, or, in rare cases, oedema of the larynx, may be the immediate cause of death. Fre- quently death may occur in the course of acute nephritis as the result of oedema of the lungs, or from a combination of oedema and pneumonia. Sometimes acute inflammation of the pleura or of the pericardium may appear to give rise to more urgent symptoms than the chronic effusion of dropsical fluid ; at any rate they cause more distress and pain, and they add to the risks by interfering with the patient's rest. Many cases terminate with acute uraemia, sometimes during the first attack of convulsions, sometimes from a succession of attacks, and in rare cases death may be due to gradual failure of the heart's action, owing to dilatation of the left ventricle. The immediate cause of death appears to depend to some extent upon the age of the patient; in children death mostly results from inflammation of the respiratory organs, while in adults it may be due to ursemic poisoning, or to one of the direct consequences of dropsy. Dangerous erysipelatous inflammation or ab- scesses in the cellular tissue may follow acu- puncture or incisions ; obstinate vomiting, also, the result of uraemia, may hasten the end. Acute Nephritis after Scarlet Fever.— Some of the clinical features of acute nephritis after scarlet fever differ slightly from thoseNEPHRITIS 541 already described, and call for brief considera- tion. The onset of scarlatinal nephritis is generally marked by definite symptoms, although it occasionally appears to commence insidiously. As a rule there is some rise of temperature. This may be very slight, and occurs most com- monly towards the end of the second or during the third week. The initial pyrexia may be preceded by headache, loss of appetite, and pallor, which may be associated with constipa- tion. These symptoms are frequently followed closely by rapid diminution in the quantity of urine passed, by alteration of its specific gravity, and by the appearance of albumin and blood in the water. In exceptional epidemics there appears to be little reason to doubt that scarla- tinal nephritis may occur without albuminuria ; at all events, numerous observations have been made of cases of dropsy without albuminuria. Dropsy. — General oedema may be the first symptom to attract notice, and it is more com- mon in cases marked by total or relative sup- pression of urine. The oedema is usually first noted around the eyes, and it may rapidly extend so that after a few hours the child is almost unrecognisable. In severe cases, when the dropsy is general and extreme, fissures may form and lead to extensive excoriations. Al- though the cedematous condition is not generally associated with discomfort other than that due to the limitation of movement, yet tenderness may be complained of when the tension is great. Both Caiger and Turner, speaking from experi- ence of cases treated within fever hospitals, find that dropsy is not a prominent symptom when scarlatinal nephritis develops while the patient is continually under observation in the wards. The abdominal cavity may become affected by dropsical eff"usion, and occasionally similar collections of fluid may be found in the pleui'a and pericardium. These may cause great anxiety, since there is a marked tendency for inflammatory effusions to become purulent, a tendency which is greater than that in acute nephritis. Circulatory System.—The alterations of the pulse with the initial rise of temperature have been already mentioned. As the disease pro- gresses the pulse generally becomes more slow and perhaps irregular, while the tension is in- creased. Henoch regards irregularity of the pulse as an indication of danger from ursemia. With cases which tend to the establishment of chronic nephritis the pulse undergoes but little improvement; in fact, a continued high tension may frequently be taken as an indication of permanent renal changes. Cardiac hypertrophy is one of the most common forms of circulatoi-y change in connection with scarlatinal nephritis. In a large majority of cases the apex beat of the heart is in quite an early stage displaced out- wards and downwards. When cases of scarla- tinal nephritis are undergoing improvement the apex beat quickly returns to its original site. The rapidity with which this occurs favours the idea that the displacement of the apex beat may, to a large extent, be due to dilatation rather than hypertrophy. Cardiac dilatation adds to the danger, as it favours pulmonary changes; it is frequently followed by oedema of the lung and by urgent dyspnoea. The onset of acute cardiac dilatation may sometimes be recognised by the alteration in the character of the pulse, which becomes rapid, thready, and weak. Respiratory System.—CEdema of the lung con- stitutes one of the greatest dangers of scarlatinal nephritis. Pneumonia and pleurisy are frequent, and, as already noted, the tendency of pleuritic effusion to become purulent is very marked. UrcBmia. — The indications of ursemia are particularly prone to occur in connection with scarlatinal nephritis, and they are extremely difficult to differentiate from many of the symp- toms referred to above. In all probability the apathy, sickness, headache, restlessness, and dyspnoea are the expression of ursemic poisoning, and these symptoms are most common when there is marked diminution in the amount of urine eliminated. Severe symptoms of urtemia, however, may occur independently of reduction in the quantity of water passed, and may even arise in dropsical cases when, after temporary suppression, the excretion appears to have been fairly re-established. This has been explained by the reabsorption of nitrogenous material from the subcutaneous tissues. Although ursemia necessarily adds largely to the risk of scarlatinal nephritis, it does not appear to be so frequently fatal as in other forms of nephritis. Course and Duration. — Under appropriate treatment improvement speedily follows in a large majority of cases, the improvement being most marked towards the end of the first week from the commencement of the symptoms. Albumm, however, is usually found in the water long after other symptoms have passed away. Indeed, albuminuria sometimes continues from four to six weeks ; if the albumin lasts longer, chronic nephritis has probably become estab- lished. The steady improvement is occasionally interrupted by relapses; the water becomes again very small in amount, high-coloured and albuminous, and more rarely the dropsy under- goes similar marked increase. Only a small proportion of cases pass directly into chronic nephritis. The majority recover completely in from two to three weeks. On the other hand, when scarlatinal nephritis has once occurred, the liability to subsequent attacks of nephritis is more marked. Chronic Nephritis.—It is only in exceptional cases that the transition from acute nephritis to chronic nephritis can be watched, so that the clinical picture is complete in all its details;542 NEPHRITIS more commonly the patients come under ob- servation when the disease has already been of long standing. Some of the earliest indications are to be found in the urine, in dropsy, and in anaemia, which is frequently profound. The Urine.—The quantity of urine passed is to a certain extent dependent upon the degree of dropsy, and, although the daily quantity is subject to great variations, it is on the average less than the normal amount. The decrease, however, in the early stages is not very con- siderable, and it is by no means comparable with that which occurs in acute nephritis. Although the amount may be reduced to half the normal quantity or even less, cases of com- plete suppression are comparatively rare, and, as a rule, anuria only occurs shortly before the fatal termination. Usually, as the dropsy increases the amount of urine progressively decreases. In the early stages the specific gravity is slightly lower. If followed from its commencement in an acute attack, as the signs of hsemorrhage decrease the urine presents a cloudy deposit; this is generally considered to be of serious import. This deposit consists largely of casts, which, in the early stages, are mostly of the hyaline variety, though with any subacute inflammatory complication epithelial casts and blood casts may be superadded. At other times the casts present oil globules and evidence of granular degeneration. In chronic nephritis casts are generally present in very large quantity, and are readily detected. In addition, however, numerous leucocytes and, more rarely, red blood corpuscles may be found. Renal epithelium is sometimes present, and it is frequently somewhat opaque or cloudy, in- dicating the existence of degenerative changes. Occasionally, also, there is much granular debris —sometimes floating freely in the urine, more often collected around the casts. In the early stages of chronic nephritis albumin is always present in considerable quantity. It has been stated that in cases of large white kidney there are on an average larger quantities of albumin than with the spotted or contracted kidney; this, however, is certainly not always the case. As the disease progresses the quantity of urine may increase to the normal, or may even be slightly above the normal amount; at the same time the urine becomes pale, the specific gravity falls, and the amount of albumin is diminished. Throughout the disease the quantity of urea is reduced. Within certain limits it is possible to estimate the degree of renal change by the alterations in the urine. As the contraction proceeds the amount of urine becomes greater, while the specific gravity is diminished and the quantity of albumin is also decreased. These changes, therefore, tend to render the urine somewhat similar to that which is passed by patients with a contracted or cirrhotic kidney. A curious result of chronic nephritis is that the kidney loses its normal power of eliminating various drugs—for example, iodide of potassium, salicylic acid, and quinine. The power of trans- forming benzoic acid into hippuric acid is also stated to be impaired. Dropsy.—The dropsy of chronic nephritis usually develops slowly, and in the early stages is not excessive. At the commencement the puffiness of the face, which attracts the patient's attention on first rising, gradually subsides during the day, while the ankles increase in size towards the evening. When the disease is IfuUy established the dropsy may aiTect not only the lower extremities, but the whole of the subcutaneous tissue, and it may also involve the serous cavities. When patients are kept in bed, swelling of the scrotum or of the back may develop. When the oedema has once claimed attention it is generally one of the most difficult symptoms to deal with, since it rarely disappears entirely, and sometimes, with little warning, it increases rapidly; not un- commonly the distension may result in cracking of the skin, which allows the escape of the dropsical eifusion. Sometimes the distension interferes with nutrition and sloughs may form. The effusion within the abdominal cavity is occasionally so considerable as to impede re- spiration and circulation. ffidema of the glottis may develop with great rapidity and may cause death. In milder cases the swelling of the legs or scrotum may show but little variation until the supervention of subacute renal inflammation, owing possibly to exposure or to some irregu- larity of diet. Anceviia.—The aneemia of chronic nephritis is always very noticeable, and it appears probable that some of the most troublesome symptoms are indirectly the result of anaemia—for example, the dyspepsia, the severe headache, and the frequent shortness of breath. Circulatory System.—There is generally dila- tation and hypertrophy of the left ventricle, and some hypertrophic and degenerative change affecting the smaller arteries. The extent of these changes increases as the kidney diminishes in size. Sometimes acute dilatation of the ventricle occurs and is accompanied by dyspnoea and cyanosis. Far more commonly the dilata- tion is accompanied by hypertrophy, which is to a large extent compensatory. The rapidity of the pulse is usually increased, and the tracings are marked by dicrotism. That the blood pressure is not markedly increased in chronic nephritis, as compared with cirrhosis of the kidney, is shown by the rarity of retinal hsemorrhages and cerebral haemorrhages in the former. When these supervene they indicate that the kidney has already undergone con- traction. Muscular System.—As the dropsical effusionNEPHRITIS 543 increases there is marked loss of strength, which may at first be attributed to the weight of the limbs. The degree of wasting may not be apparent until the dropsical effusion in the lower extremities is diminished, but frequently there is striking contrast between the thin, flabby upper arms and the enormous size of the hands and wrists. Digestive System.—The digestive system ap- pears to be early implicated. Patients have little appetite and are apt to be fanciful about their diet. They may have a distaste for meat, and frequently they attribute their dislike to certain food to impaired digestion. This dis- taste for food may proceed to actual nausea and vomiting. The material vomited may consist largely of water, and it has been suggested that it may result from oedema of the mucous mem- brane of the stomach. In all probability, how- ever, the vomiting of chronic nephritis is to be regarded as one of the indications of uraemia. In the later stages of the disease diarrhoea is occasionally excessive, the motions not only being more frequent, but containing large quantities of liquid. These symptoms are usually very exhausting, and they are extremely difficult to treat. They may defy all thera- peutic measures and contribute largely to the weakness from which the patient ultimately sinks. Occasionally ulceration of the intestine occurs, and the diarrhoea then alters in character —pus, blood, and mucus being present. Nervous System.—Notwithstanding the dimin- ution in the excretory work of the kidney, symptoms of acute uraemia are comparatively rare with chronic nephritis, and it has been suggested that this is due to the retention of nitrogenous waste in the dropsical fluid. Acute ureemic symptoms have been observed when, under the influence of vapour baths, the reab- sorption of the dropsical effusion has commenced, and this occurrence favours the idea that this reabsorption throws into the circulation a large quantity of toxic material. Nevertheless, the rarity of acute ureemic symptoms with cases of excessive dropsical effusion is noteworthy, and suggests that the excessive effusion serves to protect the system from the results of the impaired excretory work of the kidney. Symp- toms of chronic uraemia are, on the contrary, relatively frequent, the chief of these being severe headache, impaired mental activity, fre- quent vomiting, dyspepsia and diarrhoea, and occasional attacks of an asthmatic nature. Reference has already been made to the oc- casional occurrence of retinal changes, but, in addition, amaurosis may sometimes be developed independently of any retinal change. It is somewhat doubtful whether the follow- ing symptoms are to be regarded as uraemic or as the result of disturbances of the nervous system ; but it is fairly frequent to find that patients suffer from numbness in the fingers. itching, pins and needles, or even burning pains in the hands and arms. These symptoms are frequently seen in connection with advanced chronic nephritis, where contraction of the kidney has probably occurred. Secondary Inflammations.—Secondary inflam- mations are mostly the cause of death in cases of chronic nephritis, and they may affect either the external or internal organs. There is marked tendency to erysipelas and to gangrene, and this tendency must be borne in mind whenever the skin has been broken. Notwithstanding the utmost antiseptic care, erysipelas and gangrene frequently supervene. In connection with the digestive system, towards the termination of the case, severe haemorrhages may occur, either from the stomach or from the bowel. Of the pulmonary complications secondary pneumonia is the most important, while the tendency to pleurisy and to the development of pus within the pleural cavity is relatively frequent. The degree of engorgement of lung varies greatly, usually indeed in inverse pro- portion to the degree of effusion within the chest. It is not uncommon to find pericarditis develop with considerable rapidity, and fre- quently a pericardial rub may be heard even when the patient is not complaining of pain. The pericarditis of chronic nephritis is not usually associated with much effusion; occa- sionally, however, the whole pericardium may be distended with muco-purulent fluid. Abortion is said to be frequent, and has been attributed to premature detachment of the placenta, or to the development of white nodules, probably degenerative, within this organ. Abnormal Types. — Sundry abnormal types of nephritis may occasionally be met with. One of these constitutes the chronic haemor- rhagic Bright's disease without oedema which has been described by Wagner; this type is marked by the frequent recurrence of periodic haemorrhages. These attacks only last a few days at a time, though they may return at intervals of a week or a month. Between the attacks the urine is in every respect similar to that which is characteristic of contracted kidney, and the general health suffers very little. In some cases tertiary syphilis may also be present, but cases of this type are so uncommon that it is impossible to state whether or not they have any dependence upon syphilis. Another variety, which is not so rare, presents symptoms of acute haemorrhagic nephritis of sudden development in the course of the chronic disease, and this type is especially prone to be mistaken for acute nephritis. Cases marked by these intercurrent symptoms frequently run a short course. There is some reason to believe that in many cases this form of acute htemor- rhagic nephritis is a true inflammatory process constituting an extension of the original disease,NEPHRITIS 544 and, when it is remembered that in cases of chronic nephritis certain areas only of the kidney are affected, it will be readily understood that the healthy intervening spaces may simul- taneously become the subject of an acute attack. Anomalous cases of chronic nephritis some- times occur which exhibit only some of the prominent symptoms, such as ansemia, dropsy, and dyspepsia; but though the patient may be free from more obvious symptoms, yet the microscopic examination of the urine indicates the presence of granular casts, renal epithelium, and granular debris characteristic of this disease. In these cases, in all probability, the area affected is small and circumscribed, but the changes are those of chronic nephritis. Course and Duration.—From what has already been said of the varying types of chronic nephritis, it is obvious that the duration and prognosis of this disease will differ considerably. When the disease can be traced onwards from an antecedent acute nephritis the duration may be almost indefinitely prolonged. The albumin may diminish after some weeks or months, and may even disappear entirely. In such cases, however, there is very little doubt that a certain portion of the kidney has been permanently damaged, and that the disease may recur at a later period. With patients where dropsy is a marked feature from the commencement, and where the initial inflammatory stage cannot be determined, the duration is exceedingly variable. The majority of cases terminate within a year or two, owing either to the enfeeblement pro- duced by impaired nutrition, or to the drain upon the system from the extreme dropsical effusion; as has been already indicated, the termination may also be preceded by one or other of the secondary inflammations. Oc- casionally the duration may be considerably longer, and in rare instances, although without a doubt the patients are suffering from chronic nephritis, a fair amount of general health may be maintained during a period of five to ten years. Dropsy is the symptom which is the most persistent in connection with chronic nephi'itis, but although this may be extreme, and may even threaten life, yet under excep- tional circumstances it may entirely pass away, and the patient may resume a condition of apparent health, marred only by the presence of albuminuria and ansemia. This condition of apparent health may be prolonged until exposure or some irregularity of life may once more start active inflammatory changes, when the clinical picture again assumes the urgent characteristics. Renal Cirrhosis.—The most valuable symp- toms, from the diagnostic point of view, connected with renal cirrhosis may be briefly summarised. There is generally an increase in the quantity of urine passed, and very little tendency to dropsical effusions. The loss of albuminuria is variable; sometimes albumin may be absent for days together, but the amount is always small. As a rule casts are difficult to find. Dyspeptic and nervous symp- toms occur early. The leading symptoms of advanced cases are those indicative of uraemia. The symptoms may be conveniently con- sidered under three classes :— I. The early or albuminuric stage, in which few indications can be detected apart from the occasional appearance of albumin and the increase in the daily amount of urine. II. The fully matured stage, when the renal trouble becomes more marked, the arteries thickened, and the left ventricle hypertrophied. In this there may be dyspeptic and neuralgic troubles, yet as a whole the health is not very markedly impaired. III. The last stage, tending towards the fatal termination, when the eliminative work of the kidney fails, the ventricle loses its force, and the various physiological systems in turn show evidence of impaired work. I. The onset is insidious and the symptoms may be misunderstood, if they do not entirely escape observation. Frequently the disease has reached an advanced stage before there is the slightest suspicion of the gravity of the malady ; it may indeed remain unrecognised until an attack of uraemic convulsions supervenes, and several cases have been recorded in which the nature of the disease was wholly unsuspected until post-mortem examination revealed the con- tracted kidneys. The indication that is most likely to attract attention is the increase in the quantity of urine. Consideration of the habits and of the family history may then throw some light upon the nature of the case. A gouty family history is often associated with small traces of albumin indicative of cirrhosis of the kidney. Sometimes the family history may point more distinctly to the probability of renal cirrhosis, since this form of kidney affection is somewhat more likely to occur in those with hereditary tendencies. The other early symp- toms are generally fonnd to be connected with the digestive system and the nervous system. The appetite is frequently diminished, and the patient complains of impaired digestion and flatulent distension. The early dyspeptic symp- toms are rarely severe ; the vomiting and diar- rhoea which are so often associated with cirrhosis of the kidney belong to a later stage. Of the symptoms connected with the nervous system headache and neuralgic pains are common. The neuralgic pains usually affect the occipital region, though neuralgia at the vertex or the frontal region may sometimes be met with. The pain, although not very severe, is more persistent than in the commoner forms of neuralgia. In a later stage sleep may be interfered with byNEPHRITIS 545 these neuralgic pains, but as a rule the pain is most intense early in the day, and tends to diminish at night. Neuralgic pains resembling sciatica may supervene, but by far the most common type is that which imitates simple trigeminal neuralgia. In the early stages giddiness may occur quite suddenly. It may be only momentary, and it may not cause more than a very transient vertigo with slight staggering gait. Occasion- ally it is more severe, and may cause the patient to fall to the ground. When these attacks have once occurred they are liable to return at fairly frequent intervals. When any of the above symptoms have led to further inquiries, it is common to find that patients will admit having to get up at night once or twice to micturate, and they may pro- bably realise that they are more frequently disturbed even during the day. It is by no means uncommon for this increased frequency of micturition to cause dread of diabetes. The actual amount of urine that is passed is generally considerably increased, though with the earliest stage of the disease the quantity may be very little more than normal. In extreme cases, how- ever, twice or even three times the normal quan- tity may be passed in the twenty-four hours. The urine is light in colour, transparent, and generally, even on standing, gives only a very scanty, light, cloudy deposit. The specific grav- ity is lower than normal, from 1005 to 1010 or 1012; it will vary with the amount of water passed. Throughout the history of a case of cirrhosis of the kidney the amount of albumin is small, and in the early stages it may be entirely absent for several days at a time. The albuminuria may possibly follow a cyclical course, being found after exercise or after meals, while it is absent in specimens that are passed in the early morning. Occasionally the midday specimen may be free from albumin, while the morning specimen contains a trace. In the scanty cloudy deposit octahedral crystals of oxalates may frequently be met with, and they may be associated with uric acid. The urea passed is often reduced, though relatively large quantities may be eliminated. Renal casts are not numerous, they are mostly small and hyaline, bvit larger casts may sometimes be found, occasionally containing granular debris, or even atrophied renal epithelial cells. Acute inflam- matory exacerbations may occur, but they are less frequent than with chronic diffused nephritis. Changes in the circulatory system are found early. The pulse of cirrhosis of the kidney is fairly resistant, the degree of compression being roughly estimated by the amount of pressure required to arrest pulsations. The sphygmo- graphic tracings are extremely characteristic, although high tension may be met with in connection with some other conditions, as with diabetes, with hysteria, or with atheroma. VOL. VI The apex beat of the heart is displaced out- wards and downwards. In addition there is accentuation of the cardiac sounds. The second sound heard over the aortic valves is especially affected, and reduplication is frequent. Late in the disease some dilatation of the right ventricle may cause further increase in the area of cardiac dulness. Epistaxis may occasionally be an early symptom, but in my experience it is more commonly met with in the later stages. II. when the renal alterations are more fully established, many of the symptoms above enu- merated will be more pronounced, and others may be superadded. Thus the dyspeptic symp- toms are more likely to be associated with nausea and vomiting, and the vomiting may be more frequent in the early morning. Occasionally diarrhoea ensues, and, like the vomiting, it appears to occur spontaneously. As the disease progresses the amount of urine increases, while the specific gravity becomes more persistently low. The pale yellow colour of the urine is extremely characteristic of marked advance of the disease, and it is associated with further diminution in the elimination of urea and phosphates. Before the onset of ursemic con- vulsions the amount of urine may be consider- ably reduced; hence it is important to note any alteration in the daily excretion of urine. Diminution in quantity and the supervention of headache must always give rise to anxiety. Respiratory System.—In advanced cases of renal cirrhosis difficulty of respiration forms a prominent symptom, and it is very frequently attributable to changes affecting the lungs and pleura. These changes can often be indirectly traced to alterations in the circulation, which will account for rapid oedema or for accumula- tions of fluid within the pleural cavity. In addition to these symptoms, however, in renal cirrhosis, and more rarely in chronic nephritis, "urgemic dyspnoea" may occur more suddenly and with greater urgency. Although the symptoms resemble those of spasmodic asthma, both in the suddenness of their onset and in the completeness with which the attack may pass off, yet they do not give way before the same forms of treatment. The variety of ursemic dyspnoea which has most prominently come under my observation is that in which there has been oedema of the lung or fluid in the pleural cavity. The difficulty of breathing commences usually at night, and the patient sits up in bed strug- gling for breath. Sometimes the respirations are accompanied by sibilant rales, which are apparently the result of bronchial spasm. At other times, although the breathing is equally hurried and laborious, it is accompanied by loud puerile respiration. When dyspnoea is asso- ciated with oedema of the lungs, although the attack may commence suddenly and may to a large extent pass off after a few hours of intenseNEPHRITIS 546 distress, yet the respirations continue to be more rapid than in the normal condition, indicating that there is some permanent interference with the work of respiration. Cardio-vascular System.—With the advance of the disease there is increased dyspnoea on exertion, which, in many cases, is due rather to weakness of the circulation than to obstruction from pulmonary changes. Frequently, how- ever, the two conditions coexist, and the cardiac failure leads to engorgement of lung, which in turn gives rise to dilatation of the right side of the heart. Apart from dyspnoea the main symptoms likely to arise from cardiac hyper- trophy are those of headache, ringing in the ears, giddiness, palpitation, and perhaps angina pectoris. These symptoms as a rule occur during the night or follow extreme exertion or other form of excess. During the early morn- ing hours they gradually pass off, so that the patient dozes, and wakes feeling fairly comfort- able. Towards the end the palpitation and dyspnoea may form the most prominent symp- toms, the rhythm of the heart becoming very markedly altered, and the gallop-rhythm rela- tively frequent. At this time the pulse may frequently lose somewhat in tension, and the sounds of the heart become less accentuated. When the heart's action is fairly regular the sounds of the heart may, however, become louder than usual, and both the first and the second sounds are frequently reduplicated. One consequence of the hypertrophy of the left ventricle requires special mention, namely, the tendency to the rupture of blood-vessels which have imdergone degenerative changes. This may give rise to severe epistaxis, to apo- plexy, and sometimes, but more rarely, to gastric or intestinal haemorrhages. Less commonly rupture of vessels may cause hematuria, but far more frequently this symptom is the result of a subacute inflammatory attack. The tendency to rupture of minute arteries is also responsible for the large flame-shaped haemorrhages in the retina, which may occur independently of ura3mic convulsions, although they are more commonly found after convulsions. Haemorrhage into the tympanic cavities and membrana tympani has been described. Nervous System. — Reference has already been made to the frequency of unilateral head- ache and of vertigo. It remains, however, to mention the irritability and weakness exhibited by patients in advanced stages of this disease; they often become low-spirited, and may even attempt suicide. Sometimes, also, after attacks of convulsions, the sense of hearing may be interfered with, and a temporary deafness has been described comparable to the temporary blindness which is far more common. These patients suffer from insomnia which often re- sists the ordinary hypnotics. Uraemic convul- sions may be anticipated when patients with insomnia suff"er from persistent headache, and when the amount of urine undergoes much diminution. {See also " Uraemia.") In renal cirrhosis impairment of muscular strength is relatively frequent, although this is a somewhat late symptom. The skin loses its healthy colour and becomes yellowish, and sometimes slightly jaundiced. This alteration is, however, often due to cirrhosis of the liver. Various forms of skin eruptions have been described in connection with cirrhosis of the kidney; acne rosacea is fairly frequent, and uraemic rashes are met with ; there is often a great deal of itching of the skin, and the irrita- tion may give rise to an erythematous rash. III. The end may be due to insidious inflam- mation of internal organs. Many patients with contracted kidney, if they do not die from apoplexy or uraemic convulsions, suff'er from pneumonia without the usual typical rise of temperature. Pleurisy and simple hydrothorax are frequent, and dry pleurisy is not uncommon. Renal pericarditis often occurs with very little complaint of pain and with little, if any, alteration of cardiac dulness. Sometimes there is tenderness over the pericardial region, and per- cussion or the pressure of the stethoscope may be sufficient to cause pain. The physical signs of renal pericarditis change very quickly; sovmds heard in the morning may be completely altered in rhythm and character towards the evening. The transition to the late symptoms of cir- rhosis of the kidney is sometimes very abruptly marked, and is usually accompanied by failure in the compensatory work of the heart, failure in the eliminating power of the kidney, and in- creasing weakness. The pulse freqiiently loses its high tension, and becomes small, rapid, and irregular. Dropsy may supervene, resembling that of cardiac failure. It is less permanent than that of chronic nephritis, and any improvement of the circulatory powers is almost necessarily attended by diminution of dropsical eff'usion. Slight jaundice may supervene, and patients may complain of haemorrhoids. Diarrhoea is apt to become more prominent and more trouble- some, and may be complicated by the appear- ance of blood from ruptured haemorrhoids, or from ulceration in the intestine. It is always necessary to watch carefully for spontaneous diarrhoea, since, owing to the frequent use of hydragogue purgatives, this symptom may be overlooked. As the disease progresses uraemic symptoms become more marked; the headache is more persistent, the dyspnoea more extreme. The end may be hastened by some complication, such as secondary inflammation of the heart or lungs, or it may be reached through uraemic symptoms; on the other hand, a very large proportion die from cerebral haemorrhage, which is more frequent amongst those who have not suffered from general oedema.547 NEPHRITIS Course and Duration. — For the foregoing account it is obvious that this disease follows an insidious course from the commencement, and it does not appear to add very greatly to the immediate risks of life so long as the circu- latory system shows no signs of impairment. I have met with several cases of long duration, more particularly in connection with assurance work, and it appears to me that, so long as the patient can live reasonably and take exercise, the danger may be warded off. With this disease, as with so many others, one is apt to form an exaggerated idea of the seriousness from a consideration of hospital patients. Those in comfortable circumstances undoubtedly live longer than those whose circumstances render care and dietary precautions impossible. The early phases may produce so little discomfort that the patient is unaware of his condition until the urine is examined, as in connection with life assurance. Increased frequency of nocturnal micturition or dyspeptic symptoms may first bring the patient under observation. In other cases the first note of warning may be aflforded by impairment of vision, or the disease may remain unrecognised until the breathing power is affected, when it may be difficult to decide whether the albuminuria is the cause or the result of the interference with the circulation. In the large majority of cases the hypertrophied ventricle fails sooner or later, and the patient complains of increased dyspnoea ; the amount of urine passed falls below the normal quantity, and dropsy, bronchitis, or pneumonia may supervene. The end may be heralded by attacks of diarrhoea, by vomiting, and by ursemic seizures, or it may occur from cerebral haemorrhage. It is impossible to fore- cast the duration of a case of cirrhosis unless the whole of the patient's circumstances are intimately known, but the greatest value at- taches to the condition of the cardio-vascular system, the sounds of the apex of the heart affording valuable indications. General Diagnosis in Nephritis In some acute cases of Bright's disease, and sometimes in some of the chronic forms, there is but little difficulty with the diagnosis, but cases frequently arise, both in private practice and in connection with assurance work, in which the correct estimation of the significance of albumin may cause considerable trouble and anxiety. Sometimes the circumstances of the case make the appearance of albumin a surprise to the patient and to the medical man, while at others the albuminuria may serve to explain symptoms of an otherwise indefinite type. When the albuminuria has been detected in the course of an examination for life assurance, the proposer may have had no idea that there was anything the matter with him, and it is occasionally extremely difiicult to persuade him that there is anything amiss, and that he should take further advice. When it has been found with symptoms of ill-health, the task of the physician is not so difficult, since, as the patient is already troubled about his condition, it is to a certain extent a satisfaction, if even a gloomy one, to have the cause definitely decided. In dealing with the first class of cases, those presenting themselves for life assurance, the diagnosis is often obscure. The physician is practically wholly in the dark as to the pro- poser's habits, his occupation, and his previous history. It is true that questions upon all these points are asked, and that information is sought from many different sources, but it is almost too much to expect such questions to be answered with the same degree of fulness and accuracy that attends the account given by a patient to a physician from whom he wishes for advice on a question of health. Still, mucli may be gained by examining the urine at varying intervals, and, if possible, at different hours of the day. My experience with assurance work indicates that there are a great number of cases in which the presence of small traces of albumin has been determined by chemical tests in the total absence of any history pointing specially to kidney disease, and also in the relative absence of symptoms indicative of chronic renal affection. "This, I take it, is an important fact, since the tendency of those who consider albuminuria mainly from the point of view of the consulting room is to lay, perhaps, too much stress upon its importance, and to take too gloomy a view of the diagnosis and prognosis. There are numerous physical signs which are ordinarily described as being associated with chronic albuminuria, such as alterations affect- ing the pulse and the position of the apex beat of the heart; but these physical signs are wanting in a large majority of cases of albu- minuria, such as those met with among young men from eighteen to twenty-five years of age. Perhaps some slight increase of tension may be noted after the albuminuria has been discovered where, in the absence of albuminuria, the pulse might probably have been regarded as normal. Whenever possible, I make it a rule, in cases of slight albuminuria occurring in young men^ to get into communication with the medical attendant, and to endeavour to enlist his sym- pathetic co-operation in clearing up the causation of the albuminuria. The medical attendant can frequently ascertain the relation which the albu- minuria bears to varying conditions of diet, of rest, and of work, and he may thus afford very material assistance in proving whether the albuminuria is persistent or intermittent. The questions that naturally arise in any case are whether this drain from the system is constant or occasional, whether it occurs at all hours of the day or only at certain times, or whether it is dependent in any way upon the habits orNEPHRITIS 548 mode of life of the proposer. Whenever any conflict of opinion arises, it is best to state in detail the tests employed with the results that have been obtained, and to endeavour to get the medical attendant to examine under precisely similar conditions. If it is possible, with the aid of the medical attendant, to form a diagnosis, cases of slight albuminuria occurring amongst young men may be dealt with, a small extra premium being charged on account of this abnormality, even though the case must be attributed to one or other of the functional forms of albuminuria. When dealing with individuals of greater age, it is necessary to be very much more cautious before expressing an opinion that the case is one of functional or intermittent albuminuria, and as the precautions which have to be adopted are practically the same whether the case is one which is being examined for life assurance or whether it is a patient who requires advice, it will be advisable to discuss the diagnostic indications more fully, although it is convenient to discuss the importance of each of the diag- nostic features separately; but it must be understood that in practice all these diagnostic features must be considered collectively, and due weight assigned to the indications derived from each. With regard to the persistency of the albu- minuria, it is necessary to test the water from day to day, and at different hours of the day, and if albumin is always found to be present, there is a strong presumption in favour of the existence of some form of Bright's disease amongst patients of middle age, though the possibility of a functional albuminuria must be kept in mind when dealing with younger patients. In most cases of functional albu- minuria the specific gravity is relatively high. Those which are commonly met with amongst young men, candidates for appointments, or for life assurance, usually have a specific gravity of 1025 or upwards; while on the other hand, where the amount of albumin is the same, there is fair presumptive evidence of chronic renal affection if the specific gravity is low, unless the low specific gravity is found to be an exceptional occurrence. Small traces of albumin may some- times be due to congestion of the kidney from heart disease, or from some other cause lead- ing to venous engorgement, such as advanced chronic bronchitis or emphysema; sometimes a faint cloud may be found in connection with febrile conditions, such as pneumonia. The albuminuria of heart disease, or of other forms of engorgement, generally varies considerably from day to day, and the urine is mostly scanty, of high colour, and high specific gravity. It is always necessary not only to ascertain that the albumin is permanent, but also that the amount is fairly constant; it must be remembered, how- ever, that in many cases of renal cirrhosis the amount of albumin varies from day to day, and, indeed, that the urine may sometimes be entirely free from albumin. In such patients, however, the pale straw colour is characteristic, while the specific gravity will also furnish material assist- ance. In broad terms it may be stated that in most cases of transient, temporary, or functional albuminuria the quantity of albumin is relatively small, while the colour and the specific gravity may be normal or above normal. If the albumin is found to be intermittent instead of persistent, no certainty of diagnosis can be founded upon this fact alone, since in some cases of chronic interstitial nephritis the urine that is passed on first rising, before food has been taken, may be found wholly free from albumin. In the same way, as indications of diagnosis, little reliance can be placed upon variations in the appearance of albumin with alterations of external tempera- ture. In many cases of functional albuminuria, it is true that this symptom occurs only with sudden changes of temperature, either with a sudden access of warm weather or with sudden exposure to cold, yet in the early stages of some cases of mild nephritis the same holds good. The influence of cold and damp in increasing the amount of albumin in cases of scarlatinal nephritis has already been referred to. It is occasionally necessary to ascertain whether re- cumbency in bed has any influence on the presence of albumin in the water. This question has been repeatedly dealt with by Dr. Clement Dukes of Rugby, and he seems to have satis- factorily proved that there is good reason for believing that mere alterations of posture may, by altering the strain upon the capillaries of the Malpighian tufts, cause albuminuria in other- wise healthy individuals. Grainger Stewart held that when albuminuria is found to occur only after meals, or with changes of attitude, or with more or less severe muscular exertion, under mental excitement, or after cold bathing, it may be concluded with certainty that the process is functional. Although this generalisa- tion may hold good for a large number of cases, it must be admitted that numerous other factors require to be considered before adopting such a sanguine view. In any case of doubt it is always advisable to determine accurately the total quantity of water passed in the twenty-four hours. In cases of functional albuminuria there is mostly no alteration in the quantity, while in those chronic forms of kidney disease which are most likely to cause hesitation in forming a diagnosis, the quantity is usually somewhat greater, or even considerably in excess of the normal amount, and the patient is disturbed by nocturnal micturition. Patients with lardaceous disease mostly pass a large quantity of pale urine; and the amount and the appearance vary according to the stage of the complaint. In the early stages of renal cirrhosis the amount may be butNEPHRITIS 549 little in excess of the normal quantity, while the colour is almost invariably lighter than usual; in the later stages, when attacks of acute engorgement may occur, the alterations in quantity and in appearance usually leave no doubt about the nature of the case. It is very rare for febrile albuminuria to cause any difficulty of diagnosis. The existence of high temperature, and the coexistence of scanty, high-coloured water depositing urates, usually afford fair presumptive evidence for considering that the albuminuria is merely symptomatic of the febrile state. This pre- sumption is further strengthened if the amount of albumin appears to bear any relation to the height of fever. Sometimes it increases as the temperature rises, and diminishes with defer- vescence of the temperature. If after complete defervescence albumin is still found to be present, it may cause further anxiety, unless the case is one of diphtheria, when small traces seem to result from diphtheritic poison, rather than from organic renal changes, or from the febrile state. The microscopic examination of the sediment sometimes affords valuable assist- ance to the diagnosis; the detection of crystals of oxalates, or of knife-rest crystals of phos- phates will often favour a diagnosis of accidental or functional albuminuria; while, on the other hand, the presence of casts requires very careful consideration, since they may be found in cases of functional albuminuria, while they are fre- quently absent in cases of chronic cirrhosis. Hyaline casts of small size are those which are of least diagnostic importance, while granular and oily casts, especially if fairly numerous and of large size, may indicate chronic nephi-itis or cirrhosis. In every case it is necessary to consider associated symptoms and physical signs affect- ing the circulatory, the respiratory, the diges- tive, and the nervous systems. Chronic forms of nephritis and of cirrhosis are, as a rule, attended by changes in the sounds of the heart and in the position of the apex beat. The area of cardiac dulness is generally in- creased, the apex beat displaced outwards, the extent of displacement frequently bearing dis- tinct relation to the duration of the albuminuria. Both sounds of the heart are modified; the first sound, though it may be somevvhat faint and indistinct, is mostly booming, exaggerated, and somewhat prolonged in character. The second sound at the base is accentuated and somewhat reduplicated, but both the sounds and the hypertrophy are essentially indicative of chronic nephritis and of cirrhosis. When met with in connection with lardaceous disease of the kidney, these changes in the position of the apex beat and in the sounds of the heart are indicative of an associated nephritis. The pulse of chronic nephritis and of renal cirrhosis shows an increase of arterial tension, being wiry or resisting, while the pulse tracing is generally characterised by the breadth of the tidal wave and the distance of the dicrotic notch from the upstroke. Information of any diagnostic importance is rarely to be obtained from consideration of changes in the respiratory system. If the patient is the subject of chronic broncliitis or of chronic emphysema, very little value may attach to small traces of albumin in the water, especially if these are found to vary with the condition of the lung; but it is sometimes difficult in asthmatic conditions to determine whether the albuminuria exists as a consequence or as a cause. When it occurs as the cause, the urine is mostly of low specific gravity and of a pale colour, and the quantity of albumin is generally small. On the other hand, if the albuminuria is the result of lung engorgement, the urine is more commonly reduced in quantity and its colour is deepened. In every case of albuminuria, the condition of the alimentary system deserves attention. This naturally follows from what has been said of the dietetic forms of albuminuria, and the inability of some patients to take certain articles of diet without the production of albumin in the water. On the other hand, digestive dis- turbances may arise in connection with chronic kidney disease, either as a sequel to the disease, or as a determining cause of chronic nephritis. The chronic dyspepsia of advanced cirrhosis is well recognised, and is marked by its intract- able character, by the occasional tendency to vomiting, and sometimes by sudden and severe diarrhoea. Valuable assistance may sometimes be gathered from the nature of the skin either in respect of colour or of structure. The ansemia of chronic nephritis contrasts markedly with the reddish-brown tinge which is often seen in renal cirrhosis. The ansemia is often associ- ated with dropsical effusions, and it is by no means unusual to find slight conditions of oedema about the eyelids, and to notice that the features appear larger than usual. The frequency of a watery appearance of the con- junctiva in cases of chronic nephritis must be familiar to every practitioner. On the other hand, the reddish discoloration of renal cirrhosis may depend upon the causation, and will fre- quently furnish ground for further inquiries. Subcutaneous haemorrhages may sometimes be found over the lower extremities, but these are comparatively rare except in advanced stages of the disease, in which there is no question of the diagnosis. Thus, also, with the conditions of extreme oedema affecting the lower extremities ; these are more frequently to be met with in connection with chronic nephritis than with renal cirrhosis. In some cases of doubt, the appearance of syphilitic eruption or cicatrices, or of syphilitic diseolorations of the skin, may indicate the probability of lardaceous disease;550 NEPHRITIS the diagnosis of lardaceous disease is, however, more frequently to be founded upon other and more certain signs. With renal cirrhosis the skin is sometimes abnormally dry, and it may be difficult to pro- voke diaphoresis. This difficulty, which may arise in the treatment of urtemic symptoms, frequently serves to render the diagnosis of cirrhotic changes more certain. A similar con- dition is occasionally met with in the slight albuminuria which is so frequently associated with advanced diabetes. The dryness of the skin is then dependent, however, upon the diabetic changes and upon the drain of water from the system. From the changes in the nervous system many indications may be obtained. Reference has already been made to the persistent head- ache of chronic nephritis and renal cirrhosis. These headaches are not always very severe, though usually they are of a violent neuralgic type. The headaches of chronic uraemia must be carefully differentiated from those which occur with functional albuminuria, as, for ex- ample, with the albuminuria of adolescence. In the latter condition the headache is of a dull nature and associated with intense lassitude and disinclination to work. With functional albuminuria, also, it may be noted that the headache is not so persistent, that it is more marked in the early part of the day, and that it often passes off with exercise or with food. Sometimes in paroxysmal hsematuria or hjemo- globinuria complaint of lassitude is made, and this occasionally precedes as well as follows the paroxysmal attack. Renal disease may frequently be first inferred from affections of vision. A gradual develop- ment of dimness of vision may lead to an ophthalmoscopic examination and to the recog- nition of albuminuric retinitis, or of distinct haemorrhages. Sometimes, however, dimness of vision may occur suddenly after a fit, which may be called by the patient a " fainting fit," or a " convulsive seizure," and in such cases it is uncommon to find much evidence of retinal change. When " fainting fits " occur, the possi- bility of ursemic origin should be considered and the water should be examined. These fits are more prone to ensue in connection with renal cirrhosis than with any other form of renal change, with the exception, perhaps, of acute nephritis, especially when a sequel to scarlet fever. In the latter case, however, the diagnosis has probably been made long before the ursemic seizures have occurred. Although it is fairly easy, by a consideration of all the surrounding circumstances and by careful and repeated examination of the water, to determine the probable cause of the albu- minuria and the probable nature of the renal change, if any, it must be admitted that it is frequently difficult to determine accurately the stage of the disease, more particularly in connection with chronic nephritis. Sometimes intercurrent attacks of haematuria may cause an unguarded diagnosis of acute nephritis to be made, and this has necessarily to be altered when the blood disappears, and the urine is found to remain albuminous and pale. It is still more difficult, in cases of chronic nephritis, to decide whether the kidney is in the enlarged condition or whether it has undergone secondary contraction. These refinements, however, are of relatively little importance, compared with the question of determining the extent to which the kidney is still capable of performing eliminative work. General Prognosis in Nephritis So long as the kidney retains the power of removing sufficient nitrogenous waste from the system, and so long as it is able to remove sufiicient water, the immediate prognosis is fairly good, since whatever the pathological condition, it is evident that some parts of the kidney retain the power of doing good work. It is necessary, however, to consider the amount of the loss of albumin. The amount, in many cases of Brighb's disease, notably in cases of renal cirrhosis, is so small that it is almost a negligible quantity — in fact, the drain of albumin is so readily repaired by the consump- tion of food that the patient appears to suffer very little from this cause. In all probability this is the explanation of the prolonged course of some well-recognised cases of chronic nephritis. The prognosis becomes more grave as the loss of albumin increases. When a large drain of albumin occurs with chronic nephritis, it is always associated with great reduction of weight and loss of strength. Careful attention must be paid to the daily variations in the amount of albumin; it is unwise to form an opinion on the examination of a single specimen, but when the water is repeatedly examined and the percentage of albumin is always found to be very great, the prognosis becomes gloomy. In the prognosis of Bright's disease it is important to recognise two classes, according to the early or late termination. Thus many patients with acute Bright's disease may have a favourable early prognosis, and a doubtful late prognosis ; that is, the immediate prognosis so far as danger is concerned may be favourable, while there may be great danger of the establish- ment of chronic nephritis, in which case the remote prognosis would necessarily be more hopeless. A very large number of patients with simple acute nephritis recover, provided that the disease is uncomplicated—in fact, the prognosis of acute nephritis depends very largely upon the complications and sequelae. It is rarely possible, however, to speak very definitely about the prognosis in any particvilar case, since, in spite of severe symptoms which may551 NEPHRITIS occur, the patient may recover. Notwith- standing the dangers of ursemia, of convulsive seizures, of diminution or even suppression of urine, there may be complete recovery; on the other hand, some cases which have apparently been doing well may occasionally take a bad turn and prove rapidly fatal, either from ursemia, or from some secondary inflammatory change affecting the pericardium, pleura, or lung. On the whole, however, apart from accidents of this nature, the prognosis of acute nephritis, although full of anxiety, is comparatively hopeful; but it must be remembered that very many cases starting in an acute attack pass on gradually to chronic nephritis, hence the daily loss of albumin must be watched with anxiety, particu- larly when the improvement appears to have become stationary. Puerperal nephritis stands somewhat by itself so far as prognosis is concerned. The prognosis as a rule is generally favourable, and the estima- tion of danger is to be formed from the severity and the frequency of the eclamptic seizures. There is often marked improvement after delivery, but there is danger from the severity of repeated convulsions. Should the patient recover from the albuminuria of pregnancy there is very little risk of ultimate nephritis, and there is fair ground for believing that when the albu- minuria persists after delivery the patient has been previously the subject of chronic nephritis. Independently of puerperal nephritis, the prognosis, in cases of chronic nephritis, is largely dependent upon the extent to which the drain of albumin interferes with the general health, and also upon the extent to which dropsical changes have progressed. So long as the nutrition of the patient can be kept up, so that the albuminous loss from the kidney is less than the daily gain of albumin from food, these patients may continue in a fair state of vitality for many years. They are, however, subject to dangers from exposure and from secondary complications affecting either the heart or the lung. Frequently, after exposure, the prognosis may suddenly be rendered more grave by a subacute attack of nephritis, which may lead to considerable dropsical effusion of a relatively intractable nature. These patients sometimes incur greater risks through the failure of the circulatory system, which consequently induces a rapid increase of dropsical effusion and of fluid in the pleura or peritoneum. When these effusions have occurred the prognosis necessarily becomes extremely grave, and the time limit is to be estimated by the nature of the pulse, by the quantity and specific gravity of the urine, and by the extent to which breathing is inter- fered with. There appears to be fair reason, however, for believing that many cases of chronic nephritis may undergo gradual improve- ment under favourable conditions, and some authors even consider that a cure is possible. Similar uncertainty attends the prognosis of chronic cirrhosis, of which the danger is to be estimated by the extent to which the different physiological systems are involved. Very frequently cases of cirrhosis, if recog- nised at an early stage, may be put under favourable conditions with regard to climate, food, and work, and the termination may be almost indefinitely postponed. In forming a prognosis it therefore becomes important to consider the extent to which the circumstances of the individual permit of needful alterations of work or of climate. The prognosis is, however, not so favourable as with chronic nephritis, inasmuch as although it is possible to diminish the risks, it is not possible to cure the disease. In spite of all that can be done, patients with cirrhosis of the kidney pursue a downward course, and, sooner or later, suffer from cardiac failure or from ureemic symptoms. As in chronic nephritis subacute attacks are relatively frequent, and the danger is increased during each attack, since for the time there is great diminution in the eliminative work. The prognosis of lardaceous disease naturally depends upon the extent to which it is possible to deal with the cause. Many cases have been reported in which, after satisfactory surgical treatment, the loss of albumin became ulti- mately arrested. It must be remembered, however, that the prognosis depends more upon the primary disease than upon the kidney affection, and that the albumin indicates that lardaceous changes are probably occurring in other organs as well as in the kidney. In these cases there is relatively little danger from interference with the eliminative work of the kidney. In the same way febrile albuminuria is, in itself, of little importance; it is not likely to produce symptoms due to interference with the work of the kidney, but it is an important indication of the extent to which the febrile condition has modified the nutrition and cir- culation. With some febrile conditions, as, for example, with diphtheria, copious albu- minuria occurs more commonly in severe cases, and the prognosis will be rendered more grave as the albuminuria increases; on the other hand, in many cases of diphtheria small traces of albumin will be found without any additional risk. The prognosis in any particular case is largely influenced by the nature of the pulse and of the heart's action. It is less serious when the pulse is of good quality and regular than when the pulse is feeble and irregular or intermittent. It is interesting in this connection to note that Sir William Broadbent, a few years ago, drew attention to the prognostic significance of a low blood pressure in acute kidney disease. In acute renal dropsy Sir William Broadbent looks upon the supervention of a certain degree552 NEPHEITIS of high tension as an indication of favourable prognosis. He considers that the imperfect development of blood pressure is not to be regarded as the cause of slow recovery or of the complications observed in the course of the disease, but that it reveals the constitu- tional weakness to which these complications are attributed, and it probably shows that the patient is made of poor stuff. It is further of interest, in connection with these remarks, to recall the frequency with which irregularity of the heart's action and weakness of the pulse form indications of danger in chronic nephritis and renal cirrhosis. The slighter forms of febrile albuminuria which are met with so commonly in connection with pneumonia, or with typhoid fever, appear in themselves to furnish little or no indication of prognostic value. When albuminuria occurs with advanced forms of heart disease it is indicative of failure of compensation, and the prognosis necessarily depends very little upon the interference with the circulation of the kidney. Frequently the extent to which the treatment has succeeded may be gauged by improvement in the urine; under appropriate measures the albuminuria diminishes in many cases concurrently with the diminution of oedema, and with the reabsorption of effusions from the various serous cavities. When in spite of treat- ment the albumin continues in fairly large proportion, the aspect becomes extremely grave, since it is evident that the various organs are unable to cope with the calls made upon them. With regard to the various forms of functional paroxysmal" or " dietetic " albuminuria, the prognosis is almost invariably good, though some forms of dietetic albuminuria may, if neglected, lead to prolonged irritation of the kidney, and there is little doubt that in some cases renal cirrhosis has been set up by repeated attacks of indigestion. The prognosis is good also in the albuminuria of adolescence. Treatment Acute Nephritis. — The leading indications during early days are to secure physiological rest for the kidney, to diminish the risks of extension, and to counteract dangers from in- terference with the eliminative work of the kidney. As soon as a diagnosis of acute nephritis has been made, the patient should be kept in bed, and the action of the skin promoted by the use of woollen garments, while chill should be avoided by the removal of the sheets. The dietary should, at the commencement, be as non-nitrogenous as possible, and should be limited to the smallest amount consistent with the maintenance of strength. As a general rule patients should be kept to a strict milk diet, and the milk may be given either cold or slightly warmed, in quantities of half a pint at a time. It is advisable to continue the use of milk far into convalescence, since the early use of solid nourishment often entails a return of hsematuria. If milk produces dyspeptic symp- toms skimmed milk may be substituted, but it favours constipation. Thirst may be allayed by barley-water or thin arrowroot, and when the patient is unable to continue milk diet these may be given with beef-tea. Milk, if given in too great bulk, sometimes disagrees. It is advisable to use only small quantities during the first few days, and to increase the amount gradually as tolera- tion is established. Later, the patient may take " imperial drink " made as follows :—Two drachms of acid potassium tartrate are placed in a large jug, the juice of one lemon and some sugar or syrup are added, and two pints of boiling water poured in, the ingredients being well mixed. When cool the drink may be placed by the bedside, and taken when desired. Three dangers must be kept in mind : first, the danger of suppression of urine; second, that of interference with respiration and with circulation; and third, the more remote danger of the establishment of chronic renal nephritis. The first of these dangers, that of suppression, may be averted by hydragogue purgatives, or by diuretics. Since, however, most diuretics cause an increase in the calibre of the renal vessels, and thus tend to promote engorgement, it is essential to place full reliance upon dia- phoretic measures and drugs and upon hydra- gogue purgatives. Salines and mild hydragogues are preferable to mercurials, which often favour diuresis. When dropsy is extreme, headache severe, and when convulsions occur, the use of purgatives becomes imperative. In the milder cases full doses of magnesium sulphate may be employed; but when dealing with cases of greater severity, compound jalap powder is generally followed by good results, although some practitioners prefer to substitute scammony resin, with acid potassium tartrate, in the proportions present in the compound jalap powder. Should con- vulsions be followed by coma, it will be advisable to use croton oil in doses of one-third of a minim and upwards. When the urine has lost its smoky character, mercurials, such as calomel, may be given occa- sionally ; but when given at night, a saline purge should be administered in the morning to remove the mercury quickly, and to prevent any prolonged irritation of the renal vessels. Pending the action of purgatives, diaphoresis should be promoted by the wet pack or by the vapour bath. The latter is usually the more prompt in action; but it is necessary to be extremely careful to avoid burns or scalds, since the cutaneous sensibility is so far reduced that severe blistering may occur before there is any complaint of pain.553 NEPHRITIS The wet pack may be used either hot or cold ; the latter is generally preferred. In applying the pack, the patient should be completely undressed, or should only wear a thin cotton covering, and wet sheets should be wrapped round him and then quickly covered with suc- cessive layers of dry blankets. Care should be taken to leave no portion of the damp sheet projecting beyond the blankets. Copious per- spiration usually ensues after twenty minutes or half an hour, and this diaphoresis will often continue after the removal of the pack, if the patient is quickly dried with warm towels and again enveloped in warm blankets. Perspira- tion may be further favoured during the wet pack by giving draughts of water from time to time. The first application of the wet pack some- times fails, and may indeed produce increased headache; while a second application repeated twelve or twenty-four hours later, is often suc- cessful. When diaphoresis is slow, it may be favoured or initiated by small doses of pilo- carpine nitrate. This drug is, however, rarely required in acute nephritis. As the dropsy diminishes and the urine in- creases in quantity and becomes less smoky, alkaline diuretics may be employed, such as potassium or sodium acetate, or citrate. The late Sir William Roberts recommended that these drugs should be given from the com- mencement of the attack, and he maintained that, by rendering the urine alkaline it was possible to prevent the coagulation of blood or albumin within the tubules, which, under ordinary conditions, is favoured by the highly acid character of the urine. Alkaline diuretics may be employed with small doses of digitalis, especially if the heart's action is unduly rapid. Caffeine has been recommended instead of digitalis, and has the advantage of being an efficient diuretic and of causing less digestive disturbance. Headache, restlessness, and sleeplessness may be relieved by purgatives, diuretics, and dia- phoretics, but occasionally the administration of bromides, chloral, or other sedatives is required. Bromides and chloral are extremely serviceable when the pulse is of good quality. Morphine and opium are contraindicated, since they favour dangerous suppression and uraemic symptoms. Hyoscine hydrobromide and hyoscyamine sul- phate are free from these dangers, and can be given subcutaneously in doses of grain to grain. The sleep they induce may occasion- ally be interrupted by dreams, but it is refresh- ing, and it diminishes the restlessness of the ensuing day. Persistent vomiting, if it occurs early, may be treated with diluted hydrocyanic acid and preparations of bismuth; but these are com- paratively useless when the symptom is due to uraemia, and reliance must then be placed upon diaphoretics and hydragogue purgatives. During convalescence persistent albuminuria may call for special attention. Persalts of iron have been given with digitalis and strophanthus to diminish the loss of albumin; but iron salts must be used with discretion, since the daily loss is sometimes increased while they are taken. Various astringents have been employed, such as tannic acid and gallic acid, and occasionally I have found some benefit from ergot. Per- sistent albuminuria is, however, much more amenable to hygienic than to medicinal treat- ment, and it may often be reduced by a rever- sion to milk diet, by the avoidance of cold and of muscular and mental strain. During con- valescence the greatest watchfulness and care are required, since an early resumption of solid diet may be followed by an increase of albumi- nuria, and possibly by a return of hsematuria and dropsy. Many complications, such as pleurisy, em- pyema, pneumonia, bronchitis, and congestion of the lungs, are to be treated on general principles, but acute enlargement of the ventricle is an indication for digitalis or strophanthus. Peri- carditis necessitates leeches and poultices, but the renal changes contraindicate the internal administration of opium. During convalescence anaemia calls for the use of mild preparations of iron. The astringent preparations should in general be avoided, since they increase the albumin and may also favour constipation. (Edema of the larynx may re- quire intubation or tracheotomy. It is, how- ever, often associated with oedema of the bronchi and of the lungs, which can only be relieved by measures employed for dropsical affections in other parts. Scarlatiiial Nephritis. — The treatment of scarlatinal nephritis differs but little from that of the foregoing disease. There is reason to believe that the onset is favoured by constipa- tion, and it is therefore desirable, during con- valescence from scarlet fever, to administer some mild laxative. The character of the diet, too, has some influence, and with children from three to six years old it is advisable to confine the diet mainly to milk during the time of desquamation, and to keep the patient in bed. The rise of temperature to 101° or 102°, which forms the immediate prelude to scarlatinal neph- ritis, has been treated beneficially with repeated small doses of tincture of aconite. Very often, however, this initial rise of temperature may escape observation, and the disease, for practical purposes, assumes the form of acute nephritis, in which there is a great tendency to the develop- ment of symptoms of uraemia. The treatment of dropsy and of uraemic symptoms does not differ from that already described. When the immediate urgency of the symptoms has passed away, benefit will often result from the use of perchloride of iron. This must be employed tentatively, and its administrationNEPHRITIS 554 checked if the albuminuria is found to be in- creased. Quinine is also beneficial during con- valescence, and small doses of tincture of digi- talis, or of strophanthus, are usually of service when there is much weakness of the pulse. Chronic Nephritis. — Although it is always desirable to deal with the cause of any diseased process, this is difficult, and often impossible, with chronic nephritis. It is only when it appears dependent upon malaria, syphilis, or continued suppuration that it is possible to attack the cause with any hopefulness. Dietetic precautions are necessary when cases of acute nephritis are tending to a chronic course. Although many forms of routine medicinal treatment have been advocated for chronic nephritis, there is little evidence that they pro- duce beneficial results, and apart from tonic and hygienic measures treatment must be mainly symptomatic. Diminished urinary secretion, without dropsi- cal eifusion, may be treated by giving large quantities of liquid. If milk causes dyspeptic symptoms, imperial drink or home-made lemon- ade may be given ; both are taken more readily if made mildly effervescent. Strophanthus, digitalis, caffeine, or theobromine may do good by increasing the circulation through the kidney. Potassium iodide may be of service, but it is more beneficial when there is dropsical effusion. Efforts are sometimes made to reduce the amount of albumin eliminated by limiting the albuminous matter given in the diet. It is generally a mistake to interfere thus with the dietary, if the strength and the general health improve during the administration of nitrogenous food. Should hfematuria occur, the case is to be treated as acute nephritis. The amount of albumin may sometimes be reduced by keeping the patient in bed for a few days. With the same object, astringents, such as lead acetate, iron, ergot, tannic acid, and gallic acid, have been employed, but they may disturb digestion. Dropsy during the early stages may be in- fluenced by medicinal remedies, similar to those employed in acute nephritis, but later the fluid may require removal by acupuncture, incision, or by Southey's tubes, great care being taken to avoid sepsis. Ursemic symptoms may develop when there has been long-continued diminution in the daily excretion of urine. Of the two forms, acute and chronic, the latter is most commonly met with in connection with chronic nephritis, and it is, happily, readily affected by diaphoretic and diuretic measures. For persistent headache or sleeplessness nitrites may be used, either by inhalation or by the mouth. Nitroglycerin is perhaps preferable to amyl nitrite, as the effect, though produced more slowly, is more lasting; recently erythrol tetranitrate has been recom- mended to produce more prolonged reduction of blood-pressure. Sleeplessness may be treated, like that of acute nephritis, with bromides, chloral, or with hyoscine. Morphine has been recommended as a palliative in ursemic symp- toms, but the use of morphine or opium in chronic nephritis is usually regarded with anxiety. Vomiting may cause considerable weakness, and has often to be met by nutrient enemata. Urgent diarrhoea is occasionally con- trolled by enemata containing opium, but astrin- gents are rarely attended by success. When dyspnoea is associated with heart weakness it may be treated with cardiac stimulants, while, when associated with much lung engorgement, expectorant measures give better results. When the dyspnoea appears to be of ursemic origin, purgatives, diaphoretics, and diuretics should be employed. In the early stages, before the illness is sufficient to interfere wholly with the ordinary occupation, benefit may result from rearrange- ment of habits and work. While it is distinctly undesirable to continue any occupation involving physical strain, worry, or mental excitement, it is inexpedient to insist upon complete separation from work. Subacute attacks with hsematuria may be averted by the use of woollen garments and of a broad flannel belt over the loins. When circvimstances permit, patients with chronic nephritis should be sent to a warm climate during the winter months. Torquay, Ventnor, or Bournemouth may be recommended, but greater advantages may be derived from a winter spent in Egypt or Algeria. Renal Cirrhosis.—The treatment of renal cirrhosis to some extent resembles that of chronic nephritis, but this resemblance is mainly characteristic of the later stages of the disease, the earlier conditions frequently necessi- tating special forms of treatment. It is very rarely possible to deal directly with the cause of the disease, though when due to gout, to lead-poisoning, or to syphilis, these various conditions should be treated on general prin- ciples. Usually, however, the recognition of cirrhosis of the kidney is only made when the disease has probably been in existence for a lengthened period, and the treatment must accordingly be mainly symptomatic. Since the risks of cirrhosis of the kidney are undoubtedly influenced by external conditions, it has been recommended that ordinary occupa- tions should be entirely given up. If, however, the daily routine is fairly free from anxiety and worry, and the symptoms are not severe, it is better for the occupation to be continued. Residence during the winter months in warm or temperate climates is advisable, and warm clothing, especially flannel or woollen garments, should be worn. To control the cirrhotic changes within the kidney, potassium iodide is often advocated,NEPHRITIS 555 and the double chloride of gold and sodium has been used in the United States in doses of from grain to yp- grain once or twice a day. Although complaint may be made of the in- crease in the amount of urine, it is not advisable to attempt to diminish the polyuria, though belladonna may be used to control the frequency of nocturnal micturition. The diet requires careful regulation, since the appetite is com- monly poor and capricious, and dyspeptic symp- toms are frequent. When severe dyspepsia and vomiting occur late, they are to be regarded as of ursemic origin and dealt with accordingly. (See treatment of Chronic Nephritis.) In the earlier stages vomiting may be treated with tincture of iodine, silver nitrate, creosote, or carbolic acid. Severe diarrhoea, when it occurs late, may necessitate the employment of enemata of starch and opium and the use of milk diet, but unless very exhausting, it is better not to attempt to check diarrhoea too suddenly. Persistent headache and insomnia, which are more frequent in renal cirrhosis than in chronic nephritis, are similarly to be dealt with by vasodilators. Occasionally, however, the sleep- lessness requires a hypnotic; bromides, chloral, sulphonal, paraldehyde, and hyoscine are better than opium or morphine. Circulatory failure and low tension of the pulse may be improved by the use of alcohol, but digitalis, strophanthus, or caffeine citrate is often required. Spasmodic dyspnoea is usually benefited by cardiac tonics, though sometimes nitrites may also be of service. Appropriate measures must be adopted when the dyspnoea depends upon oedema of the hmg, or upon an accumulation of fluid within the pleural cavity. If during ursemic dyspnoea the urine is much below the normal standard, relief may follow the use of diuretin. Indications of pulmonary engorgement, bron- chitis, and pericarditis with renal cirrhosis are to be treated on general principles. In view of the comparative frequency of cere- bral haemorrhage during renal cirrhosis, re- current migraine or neuralgic headache is often regarded as an indication of danger. For the relief of this symptom nitrites or nitroglycerin may occasionally be beneficial, but antipyrin and antifebrin are often used in moderate doses. Should cerebral haemorrhage occur, the case must be dealt with on ordinary principles, but the prognosis is rendered much more serious by the coexistence of renal changes. Epistaxis may be checked by rest, by ice, by tannic or gallic acid, or by plugging the nares. Impairment of muscular strength may call for tonic remedies, and for modifications of occupations which involve much muscular strain. The loss of power is most marked towards the end of the disease: during the earlier stages it may be counteracted by moderate exercise and by gentle gymnastics. During ursemic convulsions very little can be done; nitrites and amyl nitrite have been recommended, but are not of much service, and do not shorten the subsequent coma. When convulsive attacks succeed each other with great rapidity, chloroform may be administered ; the hypodermic injection of morphine has also been recommended. It is perhaps better to use hydragogue purgatives; and croton oil, on account of the smallness of the dose, is usually selected. The dropsy, which usually complicates the closing scenes of renal cirrhosis, must often be regarded as of cardiac origin, and it necessitates cardiac stimulants and diuretics rather than hydragogue purgatives. NephrO-.—In compound words nephro- (Gr. v€<Ji)pos, the kidneys) means relating to or belonging to the kidneys; e.g. nephrocele (renal hernia), nephrorrhagia (renal haemorrhage), nephro-ureterectomy (excision of the kidney and ureter), etc. See Kidney, Surgical Affec- tions OF. Nephrolithiasis.—The formation of calculi in the kidney, or the tendency to the formation of such. Nephrolithotomy.—The removal by surgical operation (incision) of renal calculi. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures, Nephrolithotomy). Nephropexy.—The fixation, by surgical operation, of a floating or wandering kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Treatment) ; Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures). Nephroptosis.—Prolapse of the kidney. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Operative Procedures, Nei:)hropexy). NephropyeiitiS.—Inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney, or pyelonephritis. See Nephritis. Nephrorrhaphy.—The operation of fixation of the kidney by suturing it to the posterior abdominal wall in the lumbar region. See Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Movable and Floating Kidney, Treatment). Nephrostomy.—The formation of a fistula communicating with the pelvis of the kidney in cases of calculous anuria, etc. See Kidney, Surgical Affections {Stone, Treat- ment). Nephrotomy.—Incision of the kidney, as in nephritis, eclampsia, renal tuberculosis and renal fistula. See Eclampsia {Recent Views and Methods of Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections of {Renal Fistula, Renal Tubercu- losis, Treatment); Kidney, Surgical Affections OF {Operative Procedures, Nephrotomy).INDEX Lumbar Region PAGE 1 Lumbricales Muscles 3 Lumbricoid Worms 3 Lunacy .... 3 Lunar Caustic 19 Lungs, Diseases oi . 19 iubercuiosis . 19 rulmonary b ibrosis . 64 rneumonokoniosis . 6/ Gangrene 71 Lmphysema 73 Vascular Disorders . 77 Syphilis . 84 Abscess . 85 Parasitic Affections . 86 Lunula . . . . 88 Lupanine 88 Luperine 88 Lupinidine 88 Lupinine 88 Lupinosis 88 Lupinus. . . . 88 T 'J Lupoid . . . . 88 Lupulmum 88 Lupulus. . . . 88 Lupus . . . . 88 Lupus Erythematosus 88 Lupus Vulgaris 91 Luschka's Bursa 91 Luschka's Foramina 91 Luschka's Fossa 91 Luschka's Gland 91 Luschka's Muscle Ql y 1 Lusk's Method 91 Lusus Naturae 91 Lutaud's Lotion 91 Lutein . . . . 91 Luteolin 92 Luxation 92 Lycanthropy . 92 Lycetol . . . . 92 Lycopodium . 92 Lye . . . . 92 Lying-in 92 Lymph . . . . 92 Lymphadenectasis . 92 Lymphadenia . 92 Lymphadenitis 92 Lymphadenoma 92 Lymphadenosis 92 Lymphagogues . . 92 Lymphangiectasis . . 92 Lymphangio-Endothelioma 92 Lymphangioma . . 92 Lymphangioma Tubero- sum Multiplex . . 92 Lymphangio-Phlebitis . 92 Lymphangio-Sarcoma . 92 Lymphangitis . . 92 Lymphatic Glands . 92 Lymphatic System . . 93 Lymph ... 93 Lymphatic Vessels . 96 Lymphatic Glands . 96 Thoracic Duct . 100 Diseases of Lym- phatic Vessels . 101 Diseases of Lym- phatic Glands . 101 Lymphatic Circula- tion of Nervous System . .107 Lymphatic Vessels . .109 Lymphatism . . .109 Lymphocyte . . .109 Lymphocythsemia . . 109 Lymphocytosis . . 109 Lymphodermia . .109 Lymphodermia Perniciosa 109 Lymphoma . . .109 Lymphomatosis . .109 Lymphorrhagia . .109 Lymphosarcoma . .109 Lymph-Scrotum . .109 Lypemania . . .109 Lypothymia . . .109 Lysidine . .109 Lysin . . . .109 Lysis . . . .109 Lysoform . . .109 Lysol . . . .109 Lyssa .... 109 Lyssophobia . . .109 Lyterian . .109 Lythiasis . . .109 Lytta . . . .109 Mabey's Malady . .110 Macaco Worm . 110 I Macaroni . . .110 556 M^Burney's Point . PAGE 110 M^'Oiintock s Kule . 1 iU MacCormac's Osteotomy . 110 Macellaria 110 Maceration 110 Macewen s Osteotomy 110 Macewen's Symptom T 1 A 1 10 Machlotes 1 1 A ill) Macies . . . . 1 1 A 1 iO Maclvor Process 110 Mackenrodt's Operation . 110 Mackenzie's Operation 110 Mackenzie's Polygraph . 110 Mackerel 1 1 A i iO Mackinnel s V entiiator . 110 Macleyine 1 1 A 110 TV T Macro- . . . . 1 1 A i 10 Macro-.!iiiSthesia 110 Macrocephalia 110 Macrocheilia . 1 1 A 110 Macrocheiria . 110 Macrocornea . 111 Macrocyte 111 Macrodactyly. 111 Macrogamete . 111 Macrogametocyte . 111 Macroglossia . 111 Macrognathism 111 Macromastia . 111 Macromelia 111 Macronychia . 111 Macrophages . 111 Macropodia 111 Macroprosopus 111 Macropsia 111 Macroscelia 111 Macroscopic . 111 Macrosomia . 111 Macrostoma . 111 Macrotia 111 Macula . . • . 111 Macula Lutea. 111 Macula Materna 111 Maculse Cferulese 111 MaculfB Cornese 112 Maculje Hepaticse . 112 Maculse Lividse 112 Macular. 112 Maculo-papular 112 Madarosis 112657 INDEX PAQE PAGE PA.QE Maddox Eod Test . 112 Malpractice or Malpraxis 165 Marginate 213 Madeira . 112 Malpresentation 165 Margo .... 213 Madelung's Malady 112 Malt . . . . 165 Margosa Bark Marie's Disease 214 Madness 112 Malta Fever . 166 214 Madura Foot . 112 Malthusianism 166 Marienbad 214 Magendie's Foramen Magendie's Spaces . 112 Maltine . . . . 166 Mariotte's Experiment . 214 112 Maltose . . . . 166 Marjolin's Ulcer 214 Maggots 112 Maltosuria 166 Marjoram 214 Magistral 112 Malum . . . . 166 Marlioz .... 214 Magnan's Sign 112 Malvern. . . . 166 Marmorek's Serum . 214 Magnesium . 112 Mammary Gland, Diseases of 166 Marriage 214 Magnesium-Perhyd rol . 113 Mammillaplasty 211 Marrol .... 214 Magnetism . 113 Management . 211 Marrow .... 214 Magnetism, Animal . 113 Mandelic Acid 211 Marrubium 214 Magnolia . 113 Mandel's Test. 211 Marsh's Apparatus . 214 Mahatica . 113 Mandible 211 Marsh's Disease 214 Mahler's Sign. . 113 Mandragora . 211 Marsh Fever . 214 Maialine . 113 Manducation . 211 Marsh Gas 214 Maiche Steriliser . . 113 Manganesium. 211 Marsh's Test . 214 Maidismus . 113 Mange . 212 Marshall Hall's Disease . 214 Maieusomania . 113 Man-Hole 212 Marshall Hall's Method . 214 Maieusophobia . 113 Mania 212 Marsupialisation 214 Maieutics . 113 Mania, Alcoholic 212 Martigny-les-Bains . 214 Maignen's Filter . 113 Mania a Potu . 212 Martin's Bandage . 214 Maignen's Process . . 113 Mania, Bell's . 212 Maschale 214 Main-en-grifFe . 113 Mania Crapulosa 212 Masked Disease 214 Maison de Sante . 113 Mania Ebriosa 212 Mask-like Face 214 Maisonneuve's Method . 113 Mania, Feigned 212 Mason's Trap . 214 Maize . 113 Mania Lactea . 212 Masque des femmes en- Mai . . . . 113 Mania, Puerperal . 212 9eintes . 215 Malacca. . 113 Mania Sine Delirio . 212 Massa .... 215 Malacia . . 113 Manicocomium . 212 Massage .... 215 Malacosteon . . 113 Manicure . 212 Massai Disease 215 Malady . . 113 Manifest Hypermetropia . 212 Masseter 215 Malaga . . 113 Manikin . . 212 Masseur.... 215 Malaise . . 113 Manioc . . 212 Masseuse 215 Malar . . 113 Manipulation . . 212 Massotherapy. 215 Malaria . . 113 Manitou . 212 Mastalgia 215 Malarin . . 150 Mann's Method . 212 Mast Cells 215 Malassez' Disease . . 150 Manna . 212 Masthelcosis . 215 Malassimilation . 150 Manol 213 Mastic .... 215 Male . 150 Manometer Test . 213 Mastication 215 Male Fern . 150 Mansergh Trap 213 Mastigophorous 215 Malformation . . 150 Mantle Layer. 213 Mastitis .... 215 Malgaigne's Hernia . 150 Manubrium . 213 Masto- .... 215 Malgaigne's Hooks . . 150 Manus . . 213 Mastodynia 216 Malic Acid . 150 Manustupratio . 213 Mastoid .... 216 Malignancy . 150 Manyplies . 213 Mastoiditis 216 Malignant Disease . . 150 Mara . 213 Mastopexy 216 Malignant Pustule . . 151 Maragliano's Necrosis . 213 Masturbation . 216 Malingering . . 152 Marantic . 213 Match-Making 217 Malleation . 165 Marasmus . 213 Mate .... 217 Mallei Bacillus . 165 Marc . 213 Materia Medica 217 Mallein . . 165 Marchi's Method . 213 Materies Morbi 217 Malleolus . 165 Marcor . . 213 Maternal Impressions 217 Mallet Finger . 165 Marechal Test . 213 Maternity Hospital. 219 Malleus . . 165 Maremma . 213 Maticse Folia . 219 Mallow . . 165 Mare's Milk . . 213 Matlock Bath . 219 Mallow-Tea . . 165 Maretin . . 213 Matrix . . . . 219 Malnutrition . . 165 Marey's Law . . 213 Mattoid .... 219 Malpighian . 165 Margarine . 213 Maturation 219 Malposition . . 165 Marginal . 213 Maturity 219INDEX 558 PAOB PAGE PAQB Matzol .... 219 Medicine—contd. Melicera or Meliceris 294 Matzoon.... 219 Examination of Blood Melilot .... 294 Maunoir's Hydrocele 220 Stains . 269 Melioform 294 Mauthner's Test 220 Medicine, History of 270 Melitose or Melitriose 294 Maw-worms 220 Medicine, Medical Practi- Mella .... 295 Maxilla .... 220 tioner, Law as to 286 Mellin's Food . 295 Maydl's Operation . 220 Medico- .... 291 Mellitic Acid . 295 Mayhem 220 Medicus .... 291 Mellituria 295 Mayol .... 220 Medio- .... 291 Melomelus 295 Mayonaise 220 Mediterranean Fever 291 Melon Seeds . 295 Mazalysis 220 Mediterranean Sea . 291 Melon-Seed Bodies . 295 Mazzoni's Corpuscles 220 Medium .... 291 Meloplasty 295 Mead .... 220 Medius ... 291 Meltzer's Sign 295 Meals . . . 220 Medulla .... 291 Membrana 295 Means .... 220 Medulla Oblongata. 291 Membrane 295 Measles 220 Medulla Ossium Rubra . 291 Memory in Health and Measly Beef or Pork 229 Medullary 291 Disease 295 Measurements 229 Medulla Spinalis 291 Menarch(5 304 Measures 229 MeduUated 291 Mendel's Law or Mendel- Meat .... 229 Mega- or Megalo- . 291 ism .... 304 Meatotomy 229 Megaloblasts . 291 Menidrosis 304 Meatus .... 229 Megalocardia . 291 Meniere's Disease . 304 Mechanism 229 Megalocephaly 291 Meninges 304 Mechanotherapy 229 Megalocolon or Megacolon 291 Meninges of the Cerebrum 305 Meckel's Cartilage . 229 Megalocornea . 291 Anatomy and Physi- Meckel's Diverticulum 229 Megalocyte 291 ology . 305 Meckel's Ganglion . 229 Megalodactyly 291 Vascular Disturb- Meckelectomy 229 Megalogastria 291 ances . 307 Meconalgia 229 Megaloglossia . 291 Inflammations . 309 Meconic Acid . 229 Megalomania . 291 Tumours, etc. . 315 Meconine 229 Megalomelia . 291 Meningitis, Tuberculous . 316 Meconium 230 Megalophthalmos . 291 Posterior Basic 321 Medewi .... 230 Megalopsia 291 Meningitis, Epidemic Cere- Mediad .... 230 Megastria 291 bro-Spinal . 324 Median .... 230 Megrim .... 291 Meningism 331 Mediastinitis . 230 Meibomian Cyst 292 Meningitis 332 Mediastino-Pericarditis . 230 Meibomian Glands . 292 Meningocele . 332 Mediastinum . 230 Meinberg 292 Meningococcus 332 Medical Ethics 240 Meissner's Corpuscles 292 Meningo-encephalitis 332 Medical Jurisprudence . 240 Meissner's Plexus . 292 Meningo-encephalocele 332 Medical Practitioner 240 Mel Depuratum 292 Meningomyelitis 332 Medication 240 Melsena .... 292 Meningomyelocele . 332 Medicine, Forensic . 240 Melagra .... 294 Meniscus 332 Certification 241 Melaleuca Leucadendron . 294 Menispermum 332 Identity . 244 Melalgia 294 Meno- .... 332 Signs of Death 245 Melam .... 294 Menopause 332 Wounds and Injuries 248 Melanaemia 294 Menorrhagia . 335 Wounds from Fire- Melanagogue . 294 Menostasis 335 Arms . 255 Melancholia . 294 Menses .... 335 Burns 257 Melanin .... 294 Menstrual 335 Death from Lightning 258 Melanism 294 Menstruation and its Dis- Death from Electric Melano- .... 294 orders . . . 335 Currents 258 Melanochroi . 294 Menstruation . 336 Death from Starvation 258 Melanoderma . 294 Amenorrhoea . 341 Death from Cold and Melanogen 294 Menorrhagia and Me- Exposure 258 Melanoma 294 trorrhagia . 345 Death from Asphyxia 259 Melanoplakia . 294 Dysmenorrhoea 347 Rape 263 Melanosis 294 Retention of Menses 352 Pregnancy 265 Melanothanatos 294 Menstruum 354 Delivery . 265 Melanuria 294 Mensuration . 354 Abortion . 266 Melasma 294 Mentagra 354 Infanticide 267 Melezitose 294 Mentagrophyton 354INDEX 559 Mental Deficiency . PAGE 354 Mental Diseases 362 Mentha .... o n 362 Mentliiodol 362 Menthoform . 362 Menthol. 362 Mentholin 362 Menthone 362 Menthophenol 362 Mento- .... 362 Mentone 362 Mephitis 362 Meralgia 362 Melalgia Paraesthetica 362 Meran .... 362 Meransesthesia 362 Mercaptan 362 Mercauro 362 Mercier's Bar . 363 Mercurial 363 Mercurialism . 363 Merciiriol 363 Mercurol 363 Mercury . . 363 Mergal .... 365 Merino .... 365 Meristiform 365 Merkel's Corpuscles 365 Mermaid Foetus 365 Mero- .... 365 Meroacrania . 365 Merocele 365 Meromicrosomia 365 Mero-Rhachischisis . 365 Merotomy Mery's Glands 365 365 Merycism 365 Mesad or Mesiad 365 Mesaortitis 365 Mesaraic 365 Mesarteritis . 365 Mesaticephalus 365 Mesatipellic . 365 Mesencephalon 366 Mesenchyme . 366 Mesenteritis . 366 Mesentery: Mesenteric Glands 366 Mesial .... 367 Mesio- .... 367 Mesitylene 367 Mesmerism 367 Meso- .... 367 Mesoblast 367 Mesocsecum . 367 Mesocephalic . 367 Mesocheilorhinoschisis 367 Mesocolon 367 Mesoderm 367 Mesoglia 367 Mesognathion 367 Mesognathism 367 PAGE Mesogonimus . . 367 Mesometritis . . 367 Mesometrium. . 367 Meson ephros . . 367 Mesoneuritis . . 368 Mesophilic . 368 Mesophlebitis. . 368 Mesoropter . 368 Mesorrhine . 368 Mesosalpinx . J; . 368 Mesoscapula . . 368 Mesoscelos . 368 Mesosternum . . 368 Mesotan . 368 Mesothelium . . 368 Meta- . . 368 Metabolism . 368 Metacarpus . . 368 Metacresol . 368 Metacyesis . 368 Metakalin . 368 Metallic Cachexia . . 368 Metallic Echo . 368 Metallic Tinkling . . 368 Metallophagia . 368 Metalloscopy . . 368 Metallotherapy . 368 Metamerism . . 368 Metamorphopsia . 368 Metamorphosis . 368 Metanephros . 368 Metaplasia . 369 Metargon . 369 Metastasis . 369 Metasternum . . 369 Metasyncrisis . . 369 Metasyphilis . . 369 Metatarsalgia. . 369 Metatarsus . 369 MetchnikofF's Theory . 369 Metencephalon . 369 Meteorism . 369 Meteorology . . 369 Meter . 383 Methsemoglobin . 383 Methaemoglobinsemia . 383 Methsemoglobinuria . 383 Methane . 383 Methenyl Chloride . . 383 Methethyl . 383 Method . . 383 Methodism . 383 Methomania . . 383 Methonal . 383 Methoxycatechol . 383 Methyl . . 383 Methylacetanilide . . 383 Methylal . 383 Methyl Alcohol . 383 Methylamine . . 383 Methylated Spirit . . 383 Methyl Carbinol . 383 Methyl Chloride PAGE 383 Methylene Blue 383 Methyl Green 384 Methylrhodin . 384 Methyl Salicylate . 384 Metoestrum 384 Metol .... 384 Metopagus 384 Metopantritis . 384 Metopantralgia 384 Metopic Suture 384 Metopism 384 Metra- .... 384 Metreurysis . 384 Metric System 384 Metritis .... 385 Metro- .... 385 Metrocyte 386 Metrodynia 386 Metromania . 386 Metrophlebitis 386 Metroptosis . 386 Metrorrhagia . 386 Metrosalpingitis 386 Metrotome 386 Metry- .... 386 Metschnikoff's Theory 386 Meunier's Sign 386 Meyer's Disease 386 Mezerei Cortex 386 Miasm or Miasma . 386 Mica .... 386 Michaelis' Obliquity 386 Micranotomy . 386 Micrangium or Mi- crangion 386 Micrencephalon 386 Micrencephalus 386 Micro- .... 386 Microbacillus of Sabour- aud .... 386 Microbenner . 386 Microbism 386 Microblast 386 Microblepharon 386 Microcephalus 387 Microchelia or Micro- cheilus 387 Microchemistry 387 Micrococcus . 387 Microcoria 387 Microcornea , 387 Microcyte 387 Microdactyly . 387 Microgametocyte 387 Microglossia . 387 Micrognathus . 387 Microgyry 387 Micromania . 387 Micromastia or Micro- mazia.... 387 Micromegaly . 387560 Micromelus PAOE PAOE PAGE OCT Minimetric Method 434 Monochorea . 440 Micrometer 387 Minimus 434 Monochromatophilia 440 Micromyeha . 387 Minium .... 434 Monochromatopsia . 440 Micron .... OO / Mint .... 434 Monocular 440 Micro-Organisms o o o 388 Miracidium 434 Monoculus 440 Micro-Pathology 397 Mirror .... 434 Monodactyly . 440 Microphage on'? Mirror-Maker s Paralysis 434 Monoestrous . 440 Microphakia . 03 / Mirror-Writing 434 Monoideism . 441 Microphone oy / Miryachit or Myriachit . 436 Monomania 441 Microphthalmos oy / Misanthropia . 436 Mononucleosis 441 Micropsia oy I Miscarriage 436 Monopargesthesia . 441 Micropyle 397 Miscegenation 436 Monoparesis . 441 Microscope oy / Mischiati 436 Monophasia . 441 Microsomia 4:UU Miso- .... 436 Monophobia . 441 MicrosporiQia . 400 Missed Abortion 437 Monophthalmus 441 Microsporon . A AA 400 " Missing Links " . 437 Monoplegia 441 Microstomia or Micro- Mist .... 437 Monopsia 441 stomus 400 Mistura .... 437 Monopus or Monopodia . 441 Microtia 400 Mitchell, Weir 437 Monorchism . 441 Microtome 401 Mithridatism . 437 Monosomus 441 Microtrichia . 401 Mitome .... 437 Monospasm 441 Micturition 401 Mitosis .... 437 Monostoma Lentis . 441 Mid- .... 402 Mitral Valve . 437 Monotal.... 441 Middle Ear 402 " Mittelschmerz " . 437 Monro, Foramen of 441 "A/I • J T> ■ Mia-Pam 4U2 Mixed Feeding 437 Monsei s Solution and Salt 441 TV /I ' J * 1? ~ Midwitery /i AQ 40o Mnemonica A of? 437 Monsters and Monstrosities A A T 441 TV if • 1 Midwives 403 Mobilisation . 437 Monstriparity 441 Migraine 412 Mobility 437 Monsummano 441 Migrainm 412 Modum .... 437 Mons Veneris. 441 Migration 413 Moebius' Disease 437 Montana 441 Migrol .... 413 Mcebius' Syndrome 437 Mont Boron . 441 Mikulicz s Disease . 413 Moeller's Disease . 437 Mont Dore 441 Mikulicz s Dictum . 413 Tl if" 11 5 1 ■ I " Moeller s Glossitis . 437 Montecatini . A A "A Mildiol .... A t Q 41o Moffat .... 437 Monteggias Dislocation . A A 1 441 Mihan s Method 413 Mogigraphia . 437 Montemayor y Bejar 441 Miliaria .... 413 Mogilalia 437 Montery 441 AT"! • Miliary .... 414 Mogostocia 437 Montgomery s Glands or A/f "1 • Milium .... ATA 414 M. 0. H. 437 Tubercles . Ail 441 TVT ■ 11 Milk .... 414 Moist Gangrene 438 Monthly Sickness . 441 Milk Fever . 423 Mola .... 438 Montpellier . . 442 Milk Laboratories . 424 Mole, Molar Pregnancy . 438 Montreux 442 Milk Leg 424 Molimen 439 " Mooncalf " . 442 Millar's Asthma 424 MoUinum 439 Moon's Type . 442 Millar's Disease 424 Mollities Ossium 439 Moore's Test . 442 Millet .... 424 Molluscum 439 Moral Insanity 442 Tl if • 1 1 J Tt J. MiUon s Reagent 424 Molybdenum . 439 Moral Training A A 442 Mimetic Aiiectioiis . 424 Monacid 440 Morand's Disease . A A ^ 44.i Mimicry 424 Monad .... 440 Morand's Foot A M> 44J Mind Blindness 424 Monakow's (Von) Bundle 440 Morax's Diplobacillus 442 Mind Cure 424 Monamido Acid 440 Morbidity 442 Mind Deafness 424 Monamine 440 Morbific.... A A 442 Mind, Education oi the . 424 Monas .... 440 Morbilli .... A A C» 442 Mindererus, Spirit of 430 Monaster 440 Morbus .... 442 Miner's Ansemia 430 Mond Gas 440 ■»•' 111* nfl" n Morcellation or Morcelle- Miner's Dermatitis . 430 Mongolian 440 ment .... A A O Miner's Elbow 430 Mongolism 440 Morel's Ear 442 Miner s Nystagmus 431 Monilethrix 440 Morell's System Morgagni's Columns A A ^ Miner's Phthisis 431 Moniliform 440 A A i> 44i Mineral Waters 431 Monkshood 440 Morgagni's Hydatid A 4 ^ 44.i Mines .... ^o^ Monneret's Pulse A/T rwfva frni^Q Va 1 VP-i^l OV iVL yj L hL <XiL Lll o Y dl V CO W J. Minim .... 434 Mono- .... 440 Sinuses 442 Minimal 434 Monocephalus 440 Moria .... 442561 INDEX iVlOllTjZ, ot. PAQB Morning Sickness Morococciis 4.4.9 Morosis .... 4.4.9 Moroti'ophiuni 44.9 Morphia.... 449 Morphina or Morphine . /I A O HZ Morphinism . A A O Morphinomania A A ^ Morphoea Morphology . A P^Q Morrhuse Oleum A Morrhuol it)0 Morsus Diaboli A K'2 4:00 Mortality 4:00 Morton's Cough A FiQ Morton's Fluid A KQ Morton's J oot or Disease 4-aS Mortuaries Morula .... 400 Morvan's Disease A KA 404: Moschus A KA 404 Mosquitoes A 404 Moss .... A K A 404 Motner-l^ell A r^A 404 Mother-Liquor A K A 454 iViotner s iviarK A P,A 404 Motns .... A K A 404 Motions .... 404 Motor Aphasia A KA 4o4 Motor Areas . A KA 404 Motor Cars and Cycles A P^A 404 Motor Centres A KA 404 Motor Paralysis A KA 404 Motor Points . A K. A 4o4 Moulding A K A 454 iVioulas .... A KA 404 Moule's System A K A 4o4 Mountain Anaemia . A KA 454 Mountain Fever A K A 454 Mountain Sickness . A K A 454 Mountaineer's Nystagmus AK,K 400 Mouse .... AK,K 400 Mouth, Diseases of . /I PC K 455 Mouth, Injuries of Jaw . A i^A 4bU Diseases of Jaw AO 4bo Operations on Jaw . 47U Movable Kidney 4/ i Movable Liver 471 Movable Spleen 471 Movements 4 1 i Moxa .... 471 Mozambique Ulcer . 4/ i iVlUClC ilClU. 4(1 Mucigen Mucilagines 472 472 A/In m 71 Mucinoblast . 472 Mucinogen 472 Mucinuria 472 Mucocele 472 Mucoid Degeneration 472 VOL. VI Mucoids. . . . PAGE 4:72 Muco-pus 472 Mucor . . . . 472 Mucous Membranes 472 Mucous Patches A 47o Mucous Rales. A ^ O 47o Mucro .... A 47o Mucus .... A ^ O 47o Mudar .... A '7 O 4:1 O Mlillerian Ducts A '7 O 47o Muuer s r uivx A'7'i 4 ( O Mullers Method 47o iviuuer s iviuscie Al'i 4 ( O Mullers Kmg . A ^ O 47o Muguet .... A ^7 O 47o Mulberry Calculus . A ^ O 47o iviuiaer s i esc . 4 ( O Mules' Operation 47^ 4 ( 0 Multi- .... A '7 O 47o Multigravida . 11 o Multilocular . A ^ O 47o Multipara A ^ O Multiple A*7 O 416 Mummification A f7 O 416 Mumps .... 47 o Muraena Punctata . 7/? 47 b Murder .... 4 ( D Murexide Test /I 77 477 Muriate .... ,i 7 7 477 Murmuis /( 77 477 Murodine 77 477 Murphy's Button . /( 7 7 477 Murrain.... ATI 477 Miirren .... /) 7 7 477 Musca Domestica 77 477 Muscse Volitantes . A'7'7 477 Muscarine A hf7 Muscidse 477 Muscles, Diseases oi 477 Muscles, iraumatic Aiiec- tions .... 493 Muscular 4yo Muscularis Mucosae 493 Musculo- 49o Mushrooms 49o Musical Murmurs . 49o Musicians' Palsy 493 AT Musm .... A no 49o AT ,^1 Musk .... A C\ A 494 Mussels .... A C\ A 494 Mussitation A f\ A 494 Must .... A f\ A 494 Mustard.... A C\ A 494 Mutacism AQ4 4y 4 iviuuase .... 4Q4 iviutuation 4.Q4 A/Tl 1 f,1 STTt LJ.U10LiJL .... 494 Mutualism 494 Myalgia 494 Myasthenia 494 Myasthenia Gravis . 494 Mycelium 499 Mycetoma PAGE . 499 Myco- . 502 Mycoangioneurosis . . 502 Mycoderma Cerevisiae . 502 Mycoprotein . . 502 AT .., ■ Mycosis . . 502 Mycosis riungoides . . 502 Mycosis Intestinalis . 503 Mycosis Leptothricia . 503 TV T J.' Mycotic . . 503 Mycterophonia . 503 Mycteroxerosis . 503 AT ^ .. 1 ■ Mydalem . 503 Mydatoxine . 503 Mydine . 503 Mydriasis . 503 Mydriatics . 50o Mydrm . . 503 Mydrol . K AO Myectopy K A O . 50o TV T „ 1 Myelsemia . 503 Myelalgia K A O 50o Myelasthenia . 503 Myelatelia K A O 503 Myelencephalon K A O 503 Myelin . K AO 503 Myelinisation . C A O 503 Myelitis . KAO 503 Myelo- . . . 503 Myeloblast KAQ 5U3 Myelocele K AO 503 Myelocene KAO 503 Myelocystocele K AO o03 TV fl" 1 i. Myelocyte er A o 503 My elocy th Eemia KCi A 504 Myelogenous . 504 TV jT 1 ^ ' J Myeloid . 504 Myeloma K A /I 504 Myelomeningocele . 504 Myelopathia iropica 504 TV fl" 1 1 Myeloplax 504 Myelorrhaphy Kr\A 5U4 TVT 1 J.1 1 Myelotheraphy cr A A 504 TVJ" 1 J. Myelotoxm 504 TV T • Myiasis . 504 TVT 11 • Myelabris C AA . 509 AT 1 Mylo- K A A 509 TV T Myo- 510 TVT 1 1 „J- Myoblast K 1 A 510 Myocarditis 510 AT 1 ^ Myocele . K 1 A 510 TV T 1 Myocnrome K 1 A 510 Myoclonia K 1 A 510 Myoclonine K 1 A 510 TV T 1 Myoclonus K 1 A 510 Myocyte K 1 A 510 Myodiastasis . Myodynia . 510 Myofibroma . . 510 Myofibrosis . 510 Myogenesis . 510 Myogenous . 510 36562 INDEX PAGE I'AGB PAGE Myogiobulin oiU Myxococcidium Stegomyite 512 JN atrium OZi MyogTfipK 0 lU Myxoedema 512 i> aLUi ai • . DM Myoh<3ciii;itin . Myxofibroma . 512 Nauheim Treatment 024 iviyoiQ Oiu Myxoma 512 Naunyn's Theory Myoidema OIU Myxoneurosis. , 512 Nausea . . 024 Myokymia OIU Myxopods 512 Nautomania . 024 Myolemma 0 LU Myxosarcoma 512 i> avei • F^O /I 024 Myolipoma oiU Myxosporidia . 512 Navicular A 024 0 iU Neapolitan Disease 024 Myoma . Oil) N-Rays . . . . 512 Neapolitan Fever 524 Myomalacia 1 A OiU Nabothian Cysts 512 Near-Point F^ O /< 024 Myomectomy . Kl A OlU " Nackengrube " 512 iN ear-oigni 024 Myometrium . K1 A Oil) Naegele's Obliquity 513 Neaves' Food . 524 Myooedema f: 1 A 51U Naegele's Pelvis 513 Nebula . PC o ^ 524 Myopalmus 1 A 5iU Nsevo- . . . . 513 Nebulse . PC O 024 Myopathy Kl A OiU Nsevus . 513 Neckj Region of. K^A 024 Myopia . f;1 A Oiu Naftalan 513 Necro- oou Myopiesis . . 01 i Nagana . 513 Necrobiosis oou Myopleg'ia Oi i Nagconda 513 Necromimesis OoU Myoporthosis . Oi i Nail-Biting . 513 Necrophilism . PiQA OoU Myorraphy Oi i Nails, Afifections of the 513 Necrophobia . PiQA OoU Myorrhexis Oi i Nairn 622 i>eciup&y . OOU Myosin . Oil Naja 522 Necrosis OOU Myosinogen Oi i Nakra or Nasha 522 Necrosis Colliquative OOU Myosis . PCI 1 511 Naming Centre 522 Necrosis, Fat. . PCQA OoU Myositis . . 0 1 i Nancy . 522 drtvf^c< 1 CI \/l o v'Q r*" lion /~\ a OOU Myositis Ossificans . oi i Nanism . 522 tiOl Ubltej JrilUoUliUl Lib OOU Myospasm Oi i Nano- 522 1x1 0£i/H 11 T» fv AM tJcU-llIli^ • OOU Myostromin Oi i Nantwich 522 OOU Myosurus 01 i Napelline 522 OOU Myotatic Irritability 0 i i Naphtha 523 OOU Myotenotomy. 0 i i Naphthaline . 523 OOU Myotics . KIT oil Naphthol 523 Neisser's Coccus PiQA OOU Myotome Oi i Naphthol-Eucalyptol 523 Nclaton's Dislocation OOU Myotomy 01 i Naphtholism . 523 iM ciduUll fa JUlllo . OOU Myotonia 511 Naphthyl 523 Nelavan PCQA OoU Myriachit 511 Narceine 523 Nematode . • Pi QA OoU Myriapoda oil Narco- . 523 xy cIlIlClUl 1 . . OOU Myricin , oil Narcolepsy 523 XN tJU- , . . • OOU Myricyl Alcohol oil Narcomania . 523 Nsofcotus OOU Myringitis 0 i i Narcosis 523 Neon , . , • OOi Myringodectomy oii Narcotics 523 Nconatiis . . oo i Myringomycosis KIT 511 Narcotine 523 Neopallium 001 Myringoplasty f; 1 1 oil Narcotism 523 Neoplasm f;^i oo 1 Myringotomy. Oil Narcyl . 523 Neosporidia p;^i 001 Myristica KIT Oil Nares . 523 Nepenthe oo i Myristic Acid . F^ 1 1 Oi 1 Nargol . 523 i> epnaiioiii ■ . OOi Myristicene . 511 Nasa or Nasha Fever . 523 Nephralgia Ooi Myristicol f; 1 1 oil Nasal . 523 i> epnicotoiii y . 001 Myristin oiz Nasion . . 523 ii epnriu-iuin . . oo 1 Myrobalanum F^l O oiz Nasmyth's Membrane . 523 IN epiiri Lib . OOi Myrosin . F^ 1 o 512 Naso- . 523 Nephro-. p;f;f> ooo Myrrh FC 1 O 512 Naso-Pharynx 523 Nephrohthiasis 000 Myrtiformis 012 Natal . 523 Xi epiiioiiLiioLoiiiy . ooo Myrtle . olz Natality . 523 Nephropexy ooo Mysophobia . . 512 Nataloin . 524 Nephroptosis . . 555 Mythomania . . 512 Natal Sore . 524 Nephropyelitis . 555 Mytilotoxism . . 512 Nates . 524 Nephrorrhaphy . 555 Myxasthenia . . 512 Natiform . 524 Nephrostomy. . 555 Myxo- . . 512 Native . . 524 Nephrotomy . . 555 END OP VOL. VI. PBINTED BY NEILL AND CO., LTD., EDINBUKGH. |; GL/iSGO vv i(GLASGOW T TTT^RARY \