LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: f\U StAxnu 3 k-C) l 30106 009829218Presented to the University Library, Leeds, by the Warden and Fellows of All Souls College, Oxford. 1926. *Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 1 https ://archive.org/details/b21521220_0002SYSTEM • ^ * v OF - ANATOMY, I N I PHYSIOLOGY, &c.V % ft c A ^ • w>%CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME. PART VI. Defcription of the Vifcera and Organs, ■Chap. I. Of the Head — _ — — Pericranium" — — — — Se£t. I. Of the Brain and its Appendages - — — § I. Dura Mater — — — § 2. Pia Mater — — — § 3. Cerebrum — — — — § 4. Cerebellum — — — § 5. Medulla Oblongata — — § 6. Medulla Spinalis — — § 7 • Phe Nerves of the Brain and Spinal Marrow, from their origin to their going out of the Cerebrum and Spine, — , -— § 8. Blood vejfels of the Brain and Medulla Spi- ^tiant ity of Blood determined to the Head Its Lymphatic Vejfels — — ib. 10 11 21 22 33 35 40 43 5l 56 61 — 6 7 II.CONTENTS. Ciiap. II. IS ib. 77 78 83 Se£t. II. The Eye — — — § 1. The Eye in general — — § 2. The Globe or Ball of the Eye — § 3. The Coats of the Eye in particular — § 4. The Humours of the Eye, and their Capfulae § 5. The Tunica Albuginea, and Mufcles of the Globe of the Eye — — — 87 § 6. The Supercilia, and Mufouli Frontales, Occipi- tales, and Superciliares — § 7. The Palpebrae and Membrana GonjunEliva § 8. The Mufcles of the Palpebrae — § 9. The Veffels of the Eye and its Appendages § 10. The Nerves of the Eye and its Appendages § II, Sight — — — Seft. III. The Nofe — — Its Phyfiology — — § 1. Of Smelling — — — Seft. IV. The Ear — — — Its Phyfiology — — Hearing — — — Sea. V. The Mouth — — — 5 1. The Cheeks, Lips, and Gums — <> 2. The Palate, Uvula, &c. — — § 3. The Tongue — — — Tafe § 4- The Larynx — — Voice and Speech — § 5. The Pharynx — — § 6. The Salival Glands, hate. — § 7. Majination, Saliva} and Deglutition 9® 92 97 98 100 102 116 , 125 ib. 128 150 ib. JS6 157 159 162 167 170 178 182 184 189CONTENTS. f Chav. II. Of the Thorax — — *97 § I. Mammae — — *99 § 2. Pleura and Mediaffmum — — 203 § 3. Thymus — — 206 § 4. Pericardium — — — 207 § 5. Of the Heart — — 209 Heart's Phffiologyt Motion, cnid Ufe — 219 § 6. Of the Nature of the Blood and Juices of the Human Body — — 233 Temperaments — —“ — 240 § 7. Circulation of the Blood — — 249 § 8. *Lungs — — — 256 § 9. Refpiration — — — 267 Its Effects on the Blood — — 280 § 10. Oefophagus —- *— — 289 Chap. III. Of the Abdomen — — 292 § I. Peritonaeum — — — 293 § 2. Ventriculus — — 299 § 3. The Intefines in general — — 308 § 4. The Duodenum in particular — 31c* § 5. Intejlinum Jejunum -— — 3 13 § 6. Intejlinum Ileum — — — 316 § 7. The Intejlina Craffa in general — 317 The Intejlinum Caecum in particular — ib. § 8. The Intejlinum Colon — ' — 319 § 9. Intel}inum Rectum and Anus — 323 § 10. Mefenterium and Mefocolon — 323 § 11. The Blood Veffels and Nerves of the Intejlines 329 §. 12. Digefion — — — .333 § 13. Hepar and Veftcula Fellis — — 353 § 14-CONTENTS. § 14. Pancreas — •— *— 368 § 15. Lien — — — 371 Phyftology of the Spleen — — 373 § 16. Omentum and Appendices Fpiploicae — 377 § 17. Secretion of the Bile — — 382 § 18. Renes and Ureteres — — 393 § 19. Glandulae Renales, vulgo Capfulae Atrabilia- riae — — — '401 Chip. IV. Of the Pelvis — —* § I. Veftca Urinaria — § 2. Secretion of Urine — § 3. The Parts of Generation in Males § 4. Secretion of the Semen — § 5. The Parts of Generation in Females /> Explanation of Tab. XI. — — ' XII. — — XIII. — — XIV. — — 403 ib. 409 412 436 443 458 459 4<5o 462 A SYSTEMA SYSTEM . y O F ANATOMY. WITH THE PHYSIOLOGY. PART VI. « * * ' CONTAINING A DESCRIPTION OF THE DIFFERENT VISCERA. CHAP. I. Of the H E A D. / BESIDES the brain, which is contained within the cra- nium, the head prefents to us the organs of light, of lound, of finell, of talle, and the greater part of thofe which ferve for deglutition. THE PERICRANIUM. Besides the external integuments of the head, viz. the hair, fkin, and cellular fubftance, there are two other expan- Vol. II. B. fions10 OF THE HEAD. Part VI. fions on the head; the firft is the tendon of the occipito- frontalis mufcle, the fecond is the pericranium, which covers • the external furface of all the bones of the cranium. The external part of this membrane may be laid to fepa- rate from the other at the femicircular plane upon the fide of the cranium, mentioned in the delcription of the bones, and becomes a very ftrong aponeurofis, which covers the temporal mufcle', and is afterwards fixed to the external pro. cefs of the os frontis, and to the upper edge ot all the zygo- ma. The reft of the pericranium is connected to the other parts of the head. The head is generally confidered as one of the three prin- cipal cavities of the human body. On its outfide are fituat- ed the feats and bafes of feveral very complex particular or- gans ; whereas on the infide it contains only one, namely the brain, which is indeed the primum mobile of the whole animal oeconomy. The rnechanifm of this organ is very little known ; and the ftrufture of its different parts, even of thofe with which we are fuppofed to be moft acquainted, is very difficult to be demonftrated. Sect. I. Of the Brain and its Appendages. Ti-ie name of brain is given to all that mafs which fills the cavity of the cranium, and which is ■ immediately fur- rounded by two membranes, called meninges by the Greeks, and matres by other antients, becaufe they were commonly of opinion, that thefe membranes were the origin,, and, as it were, the mother of all the other membranes of the body. This general mafs is divided into three particular portions; the cerebrum or brain properly fo called, the cerebellum, and medulla oblongata. To thefe three parts contained within the cranium, a fourth is added, which fills the great canal of theii THE PERICRANIUM. Chap. I. the fpina dorfi, and is known by the name of medulla fpina- lis, being a continuation of the medulla oblongata. The meninges, or membranes, are two in number; one of which is very ftrong, and lies contiguous to the cranium ; the other is very thin, and immediately touches the brain. The firft is named dura mater, the lecond pia mater. This laft is again divided into two ; the external lamina being termed arachnoides, the internal retaining the common name of pia mater. We begin with thefe meninges. § I. Dura Mater. Situation in general. The dura mater inclofes the bra'n and all its appendages. It lines the infide of the cranium, and fupplies the place of an internal periofteum, being lpread in holes and deprefiions, and covering all the eminences in fuch a manner, as to prevent their being hurtful to the brain. Divifton. In deferibing the dura mater, we mull take no- tice, i. Of its compofition. 2. Its adhefions to the cra- nium. 3. Its folds or fepta. 4. Its productions, vefielsj and nerves. Compofition. The dura mater is compofed of one lamina ; although it may, by maceration, be divided into two or more. Its texture is very clofe and ftrong, appearing to be partly li- gamentous and partly tendinous. Adhefion. The dura mater flicks clofely to the cranium by a great number of filaments of the external furface, which enter the pores of the bones, almoft every where, but more particularly at the futures both above and below ; and by penetrating thtfe joints, they communicate with the ex- ternal periofteum. Thefe filaments are, for the moft part, fmall vcflels, which being broken in feparating the dura ma- terPart VI. THE BRAIN. 12 ter from the fkull, caufe a great number of red points to ap- pear on the external furface of that membrane. It adheres much more to the whole inner furface of the cranium in children, and young perfons, than in thofe of an advanced age, when the filaments become very fmall, being compreffed by the contraction of the bony pores; and confe- quently they are more eafily ruptured, by any force applied to them. Thefe adhefions are formed entirely by the outer furface of this membrane, the inner part of it being very fmooth and poliflied, and continually moiflened, much in the fame man- ner as the peritonaeum and pleura are, by a fine fluid dif- charged through its pores. Folds and fepta. The dura mater fends off feveral procef- fes; three of which form particular fepta, that divide the brain into certain parts. One of them is fuperior, reprefent- ing a kind of mediaftinum between the two great lobes of the brain : The fecond is in a middle fituation like a diaphragm, between the cerebrum and cerebellum : The third is inferior, between the lobes of the cerebellum. The fuperior feptum is longitudinal, in form of a fcythe, whence it is termed the falx of the dura mater ; and it may likewife be called fep- tum fagittale, verticale, or mediafimim cerebri. The middle feptum is tranfverfe, and might be called the foor of the cere- brutiiy the diaphragm of the brainy tentorium cerebelii. The in- ferior feptum is very fmall, and runs down between the lobes of the cerebellum *, on which account it may be termed ei- ther limply feptum cerebelii, or feptum occipitale minus, the mid- dle partition being looked upon as the feptum occipitale ma- jus. The fuperior or vertical feptum, called the falx of the dura water, is a long and broad fold or duplicature of the internal part, reaching from the edge of the crifla galli, along the fagittal future, to the middle of the tranfverfe feptum j whichAND ITS APPENDAGES. 7 3 Chap. I. which it joins in fucli a manner, as that the lateral laminae of the falx are continuous on each fide with the neighbour- ing portions of the fuperior lamina of the middle feptum. It is broader where it joins the middle feptum than at the os ethmoides; and it is thicker at that edge which adheres to the cranium than at the other, which lies loofe, and is very (harp ; and from this refemblance to a fcythe, it had the name of falx. The tranfverfe or middle feptum, called tentorium cerelelli, is fixed to the os occipitis, along the grooves of the lateral finufes, and thofe of the great angles of the apophyfes petro- fae, all the way to the pofterior clinoid apophyfes of the os fphenoidale. By this fituation it forms a fort of floor, tent, or {hallow vault, on the fore part of which is a large notch almofi of an oval figure. This feptum divides the cranium into two cavities, one large, or fuperior, and the other fmall, or inferior, which communicate together by the great oval notch. It is formed by a particular fold, and a very broad membrane of the in- ternal part of the dura mater; and, in the natural ftate, it is very tenfe, becaufe of its union, or rather continuity with the falx. This union or continuity of thefe two fepta keeps them both very tenfe, fo that the middle feptum is capable of fuf^ taining a confiderable weight without finking downward ; and the falx is able to refift lateral prefiures, without giving Way to the right or left fide. We may be convinced of this reciprocal tenfion, by firfi: touching thefe two fepta in their natural ftate; and again, after they have been cut one after the other, according to their breadth ; or rather after having cut in this manner the falx in one fubjcft, and the tranfverfe feptum in another ; For, as foon as the falx is cut, the other will be perceived immediatelyH THE BRAIN. Part VI. 1 4 immediately to lofe its tenfion and ftrmnefs; and the fame thing will be obferved in the falx, if we cut the tentorium. The fmall occipital feptum is both very {hort and narrow. It runs down from the middle of the tranfverfe feptum to the edge of the great occipital hole, being fixed to the inter- nal fpine of the os occipitis. It is formed by a fold and du- plicature of the internal part of the dura mater, in the fame manner as the other two, and it diftinguifhes the lower part of the occipital cavity of the cranium into two lateral parts. In fome fubje&s this feptum is double, anfwering to the double ipine of the os occipitis. Sphenoidal folds. Befides thefe large folds, there are two fmall lateral ones on each fide of the cella turcica, each run- ning from the pofterior to the anterior clinoid apophylis on the fame fide. Thefe two folds, together with the anterior or pofterior parts of the cella turcica, form a fmall foflula, in which the pituitary gland is lodged. There are likewife two anterior folds at the edges of the fphenoidal or fuperior orbi- tary fiflures, which augment the depth of the middle foftulae of the bafts cranii. Thus we have feven folds of this mem- brane, three large and four fmall, which may be termed in- ternal produEiions or proceffes of the dura mater. Elongations. The elongations of the dura mater go beyond the general circumference, and pafs out of the cranium, through the openings deferibed in the treatife of the fkeleton, and may be named external produEiions of the dura mater. The moft confiderable of thefe elongations pafles through the great occipital foramen, and runs down the common ca- nal of the vertebrae, in form of a tube, lining the infide of that canal, and inclofing the medulla fpinalis. by the name of the dura mater of that medulla. The other elongations ac- company the nerves out of the cranium in form of vaginae, which are more numerous than the nervous trunks reckoned in pairs. For the olfa&ory nerves, there is the fame number . ofChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. of diftinft vaginae as there are holes in the lamina ethmoi- dalis; and fome nerves, as the nin^h pair, are accompanied by feveral vaginae through one hole. There are two particular elongations which form the peri- ofteum of the orbits, together with the vaginae of the optic nerves. Thefe orbitary elongations go out by the luperior orbitary fifiures, or foramina lacera of the fphenoid bone; and, increafing in breadth in their pafTage, line the whole cavity of the orbits, at the edges of which they communicate with the pericranium and periofteum of the face. They communicate likewife, through the fpheno-maxillary or infe- rior orbitary fifiures, with the pericranium of the temporal and zygomatic fofiae ; and by thefe communications vve may explain the accidents which happen to thefe parts in wounds of the head. The elongations of the dura mater, which accompany the blood-veflels through the foramina of the cranium, unite with the pericranium immediately afterwards. Such, for in- ftance, are the elongations which line the foflulae of the fo- ramina lacera or jugularia, and the bony or carotid canals of the apophyfis petrofa, &.c. Arteries. The veffcls of the dura mater are arteries, veins, and finufes. The arteries, in general, are diftinguifhed into anterior, middle, and pofterior, and come from the carotids and vertebrales on each fide. The external carotid lends a branch through the fpinal hole of the os fphenoidale, which is the middle artery of the dura mater; and is called, by way of eminence, arteria clurae matris. It is divided into a great number of branches, which are plentifully difperfed through the fubfiance of the external lamina as high as the falx, where thefe ramifications communicate with their fellows from the other fide. The impreflions of this artery are feen on the infide of the parietal bones; the anterior and lower ' tingle of which, inftcad Qf a Ample impreffion, contains a canal16 THE BRAIN, Part VI. canal for the paffage of a trunk or branch of this artery ; on which account feveral accidents happen in fractures of the fkull. The external carotid fends another fmall ramus through the corner or fmall end of the fphenoidal or fuperior orbitary fillure, where there is lometimes a little notch on purpofe, as was mentioned in the defcription of the lkeleton. This branch is the anterior artery of the dura mater; and it gives off ramifications in the fame manner as the former, with which it communicates, but its ramifications are not fo numerous. The internal carotid, as it enters the cranium, gives off a fmall branch to the fubftance of the dura mater. The two vertebral arteries enter by the great occipital fo- ramen, and unite in one trunk on the anterior or fphenoidal apophyfis of the os occipitis. Immediately after they pafs through the dura mater on both fides, each of them fends one or two branches to that membrane. Thefe are the po- fierior arteries of the dura mater ; and they communicate by fome ramifications with the middle or fpinal artery above mentioned. Veins and ftnufes. The dura mater contains in its duplica- ture feveral particular canals, into which the venous blood, not only of that membrane, but of the whole brain, is car- ried. Thefe canals are termed finujes; and fome of them are difpofed in pairs, others in uneven numbers; that is, fome of them are placed alone in a middle fituation; others are difpofed laterally on each fide of the brain. The moft ancient anatomifts reckoned only four, to which we can now add feveral others. Thefe finufes are in the duplicature of the dura mater; and their cavities are lined on the infide by particular very fine membranes. They may be enumerated in this manner: The great finus of the falx, or fuperior longitudinal finus, which was reckoned the firft by the antients. Two great lateral>7 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. C Vol. II. lateral finufes, the fecond and third of the antients.- The finus called torcular Hercphilt, the fourth of the antients; The fmall finus of the falx, or inferior longitudinal finus. The pofterior occipital finus, which is fometimes double. Four finus petrofi; two on each fide, one fuperior, and one inferior. Two tranfverfe occipital finufes. The circular finus of the fella fphenoidalis. Two finus cavernofi, one on each fide. Two orbitary finufes, one on each fide. All thefe finufes communicate with each other, and with the great lateral finufes, by which they difeharge themfelves into the internal jugular veins, which are only continuations of thefe lateral finufes. They likewife unload themfelves, partly into the vertebral, veins, which communicate with the fmali lateral or inferior occipital finufes; and partly into the external jugular veins, by the orbitary finufes, which com- municate with the venae angulares, frontales, nafales, maxil- lares, &c. as the lateral finufes likewife communicate with the venae occipitales, &cc. Thus the blood, which is carried to the dura mater, See. by the external and internal carotid, and by the vertebral arteries, is returned to the heart by the external and inter- nal jugular and vertebral veins ; fo that the blood, if ob- ftrufted in one place,_ finds, in confc-quence of thefe com- munications, a paffage.at another, though perhaps not with the fame eafe. This obfervation is of confequence, in rela- tion'not only to obftruftions, but to the different fituations of the head. The great finus of the falx reaches from the connection of the ethmoidal crifta with the os frontis, along the upper edge of the falx, all the way to the pofterior edge of the tranfverfe feptum, where it ends by a bifurcation in the great lateral finufes. It is very narrow at its anterior extremity, and from thence becomes gradually wider all the way to its pofterior extremity. ThePart VI. THE BRAIN, 18 The cavity of this finus is not cylindrical, but triangular, having three fides ; one fuperior, parallel to the cranium; and two lateral, inclined to the plane of ‘the faix. The up- per fide is formed by the external furface of the dura ni3ter; and, through the middle of its breadth, a kind of fine raphe or future runs from one end to the other. « The two lower or lateral fides 3re productions of the inner furface of the dura mater; which having parted from the external, are inclined towards each other, and then unite; forming firfl the finus, and afterwards the duplicature of the falx. This finus is lined interiorly by a fine proper mem- brane, which forms likewife a kind of raphe or fut' re along the bottom of the finus, that is, along the union of the two lateral fides. In this finus we obferve feveral openings and ligamentary fraena. The openings are orifices of veins ; the fmalleft of which belong to the dura mater, the largelt to the brain. The veins of the brain enter the finus, for the mod part, obliquely from behind forward, after they have run about a finger’s breadth in the duplicature of the dura mater. It has been thought, that the arteries of the dura mater difcharged themfelves immediately into the finufes ; becaufe injeClions made by the arteries, or a hog’s briftle thrull into them/have been found to pafs into thefe finufes; But, on a more elefe examination, it has been difeovered, that the in- jections palled from the arteries into the veins, 2nd from thence into the finufes, through the fmall orifices already mentioned ; and that the hog’s briftle pierced the fides of the artery, which are very thin near the finufes. This mlftake gave rife to another, namely, that the dura mater had no veins; and what confirmed it was, that the arteries of the dura mater cover the veins fo entirely, that the edges of the veins are hardly perceivable on either fide of the arteries. There arc, however, fome places where tl;e yeinsChap. I. *9 AND ITS APPENDAGES. veins being broader than the arteries, their two edges are feen on each fide of the arteries like capillary veflels. Thefe veins are, for the molt part, branches of the finufes, and the fmall trunks of fome of them open into the head of the vena jugularis interna. We may eafily be fatisfied that the arteries on both fides of the dura mater communicate with each other above the falx, either by inje&ing or blowing into them. The internal fraena of this great finus appear to be tendi- nous, and to be defigned to prevent the too great dilatation of the finus by the blood. They vary, however, in different fubjefls, and do not always reach from one fide to the other. It has been pretended, that glands have been found there ; but we ought to take care that fome fmall corpufcles, which feem to poffefs little or no glandular nature, are not miflaken. for glands. The inferior finus of the falx is fituated in the lower edge of its duplicature, being very narrow, and, as it were, flatted on both fides. It communicates immediately with the fourth finus of the ancients, and in fome fubjefts feems even to be a continuation of it. It likewife communicates with the great or fuperior finus by fmall veins, which go from one to the other, and with the veins of the cerebrum by the fame means. The lateral finuies reprefent two large branches of the fu- perior longitudinal finus, one going to the right hand, the other to the left, along the great circumference of the tranf- verfe feptum, ail the way to the bafis of the apophyfis petro- fa of the ofla temporum. From thence they run down, having firft taken a large turn, and then a fmall one *, and being ftrongly fixed in the lateral grooves of the bafis cranii, they follow its courfe all the way to the foramina lacera and foffulae of the jugular veins. They do not always rife by an equal bifurcation of the fu- perior longitudinal finus; for, in fome fubjefts, one of the lateral2o THE BRAIN, Fart VL lateral finufes appears to be a continuation of the longitudi- nal, and the other to be a branch from it. This variety may happen on either fide; and we fometimes find one of thefe finufes higher or lower, larger or fmaller, than the other. The cavity of thefe lateral finufes is likewife triangular, and furnifhed with a proper membrane and with fraena: And it has alfo the fmall venal openings, which indeed are common to it, the longitudinal, and mod other finufes. The pofterior, or outer fide of this cavity, is formed by the external part of the dura mater, and the other two fides by the internal part. As thefe two finufes go out by the pofterior portions of the openings of the balls cranii, called foramina lacera, they are dilated into a kind of bag, proportioned to the foflulae of the venae jugulares, where they terminate in thefe veins. Near the concourfe of the fuperior longitudinal and late- ral finufes, we obferve an opening (fometimes double) which is the orifice of a finus fituated along the union of the falx and tranfverfe feptum. It does not always end direfUy at the lower part of the fuperior finus, but fometimes opens at the beginning of one of the lateral finufes, efpecially when the bifurcation is not equal ; and, in this cafe, it often termi- nates in that lateral finus, which appears like a branch from the common trunk of the fuperior and other lateral finus. This finus has been named torcular Heropholi, from an an- cient author, who imagined that the blood was as it were in a prefs, at the union of thefe four finufes. Its diameter is but fmall, and it forms a kind of bifurcation with the infe- rior longitudinal finus, and with a vein of the cerebrum, which is fometimes double, called vena magna Galeni. The cavernous or lateral finufes of the os fphenoides, are refervatories of a very particular kind, containing not only blood, but confiderable vefiels and nerves, as we fliall fee hereafter; and likewife a fpongy or cavernous fubftanee, full ofChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. Si of blood, much like that of the corpus cavernofum of the urethra. Nerves and glands. We obferve fome nervous filaments, which appear to go to the dura mater from the trunk of the fifth pair, at the entry of the cavernous finus; and from the common trunk of the eighth pair and nervus accefforius or fpinalis, as they pafs through the foramen lacerum. Inflam- mation, as well as furgical phenomena, fhew that the dura mater is not void of fenfibility, though, in the found ftate, this is not very obvious. The fmall tubercles, found on the lateral fides of the longitudinal finus of the falx and conti- guous parts of the brain, deferve ftill to be examined before we can determine any thing about them : They have been called glands by Pacchioni, and feem to belong rather to the conglomerate than to the conglobate kind. The whole ^n- fide of the dura mater is moiflened in the .fame manner as the peritonaeum and pleura. The prominent fibres which appear interfering each other in different manners on the infide of the dura mater, efpO- cially near the faix and tranfverfe feptum, and which have been taken for a kind of flefliy fibres, feem to be only liga- mentary and elaflic. The univerfal adhefion of this mem- brane to the craninm, proves that it can have no particular motion, and confequently, that fuch flefliy or mufcular fibres would be altogether ufelefs. This adhefion was plainly de- monftrated by Vefalius, Riolan, &c. long before Roonhuy- fen. § 2. Pla Mater. Situation in general. This membrane is a much fofter and. finer fubftance than the former, being exceedingly delicate, tranfparent, and vafcular ; and is connected to the dura ma- ter only by the veins which open into the finufes, as has been already faid. StruBure,Part VI* "it THE BRAIN. Structure. It is compofed of two laminae, of which the external one is named, tunica arachnoidea, from its refemblance to a cobweb. They adhere clofely to each other at the up- per part of the brain j but are eafily feparable at the bafis, and through the whole length of the fpinal marrow. The tunica arachnoidea is a remarkable thin and tranfpa- rent membrane, having no veffels, that can be injected, enter- ing into its compofition. It is fpread uniformly over the fur- face of the brain, inclofing all the circumvolutions, but with- out entering in between any of them ; while the pia mater forms a great number of plicae, duplicatures, and fepta, which not enly cover the brain in general, but infinuate themfelves into all the folds and circumvolutions, and between the different ftrata of the cerebrum and cerebellum, and are lilgewife continued into the different cavities. The two laminae of the pia mater are connected by a cel- lular fubftance, which accompanies them through their whole extent, except at fotne places of the bafis of the cerebrum, &x. where, the internal lamina continuing its infections, the external remains uniformly ftretched over the prominent parts, the interftices of which are entirely feparated from the other lamina, without any cellular fubftance between them. Thefe feparate portions of the external lamina have made it be looked upon as a third membrane of the brain, diftinfl from the pia mater. J 3. Cerebrum. Situation and figure. The cerebrum, properly fo called, is a kind of medullary mafs, of a moderate confidence, and of a greyifh colour on the outer furface, filling all the fuperior portion of the cavity of the cranium, or that portion which lies above the tranfverfe feptuin. The upper part of the ce- rebrum is of an oval figure, like half an egg cut lengthwife. or23 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. or rather like two quarters of an egg cut lengthwife, and part- ed a little from each other. It is flatter on the lower part, each lateral half of which is divided into three eminences, which correfpond with the cavities at the bafe of the cra- nium. Divifton and lobes. The cerebrum is divided into two late- ral portions, feparated by the falx, or great longitudinal fep- tum of the dura mater. They are generally termed hemi- fpheres, but they are more like quarters of an oblong fpheroid. Each of thefe portions is divided into two extremities, one anterior, and one pofterior, which are termed the lobes of the cerebrum, between which tf&re is a large inferior protube- rance which goes by the fame name ; fo that in each hemi- fphere there are three lobes, one anterior, one middle, and one pofterior. The anterior lobes lie upon thofc parts of the os frontis which contribute to the formation of the orbits and of the frontal iinufes, commonly called the anterior fojjfae of the bafts cranii. The middle lobes lie in the middle or latteral foflae of the bafis cranii; and the pofterior lobes cn the tranfverfe fepturn of the dura mater. The anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, on each fide, are parted by a deep narrow ful- cus, which afcends obliquely backward, from the temporal ala of the os fphenoides to near the middle of the os parie- tale; and the two fides of this divifion have each their parti- cular ridges and convolutions, which gives a very great ex- tent to the cortical fubftance. This fulcus is termed fjfura inagna Sylvii, or Amply fjfura cerebri. Sides and inequalities. Each lateral portion of the cerebrum has three fides; one fuperior, which is convex; one inferior, which is uneven ; and one lateral, which is flat, and turned to the falx. Through the whole furface of thefe three fides we fee inequalities or windings, like the circumvolutions of mteftines, formed by weaving ftreaks or furrows, very deep itndPart VT, 24 THE BRAIN. and narrow, into which the fepta or duplicatures of the pia mater mfinuate themfelves, and thereby feparate thefe cir- cumvolutions from each other. Near the furface of the cerebrum, thefe circumvolutions are at fome diftance from each other, representing Serpentine ridges and, in the interfaces between them, the Superficial veins of the cerebrum are lodged, between the two laminae of the pia mater, from whence they pals into the duplicature of the dura mater, and fo open into the finufes. Thefe circumvolutions are fixed through their whole depth to the fepta or duplicatures of the pia mater, by an infinite number of very fine vafcylar filaments, as may be leen by pulling the circumvolutions a little afunder with the fingers. When we cut tranfverfely, we obferve that the fubflantia alba lies not only in the inner part of the brain in general, but alfo within each circumvolution, fo that there is the fame number of internal medullary circumvolutions as of external cortical ones; the firft reprefenting white laminae inverted by others of an afh colour ; but the cortical fubftance is in many places thicker than the medullary. Suljlatice. The fubftance of the cerebrum is of two kinds, diftinguifhed by two different colours; one part of it being of a greyifh or afh colour; the other, which is Somewhat firmer than the former, is remarkably white, but redder in the foetus. The afh-coloured fubftance lies chiefly on the outer part of the cerebrum like a kind of cortex, from whence it has been named fubjlantia corticalis, or cinerea. The white iubftance occupies the inner part, and is named fubjlantia me- du/laris, or Amply fubjlantia alba. This abounds in greater quantity than the other, and in many places is perforated with red arteries. Corpus callofur.u Having cut oft' the falx from the crifta galli, and turned it backward, if we feparate gently the two lateral parts or hemispheres of the cerebrum, we fee a longi- tudinalus Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. tudinal portion of a white convex body, which is named cor- pus callojum. It is a middle portion of the medullary fub- ftance, which, under the inferior finm of the falx, and all'o a little towards each fide, is parted from the mafs of the cere- bium, to which it is limply contiguous, from one end of that finus to the other; lo that, at tins place, the edge of the' m- fide of each hemiiphefe only lies on the corpus calmfum, much in the lame manner as the anterior and pofterioi lobes lie on the dura mater Both extremities of this medullary body terminate by a linall edge bent tranlveriely downward. The iurface of the corpus callofum is covered by the pia mater, which runs in between the lateral portions of this body and the lower edge of each hemifphere. Along the middle of its furface, from one end to the other, a kind of raphe is formed, by a particular intertexture of fibres crofting each other. This raphe is made more perceivable by two linall medullary cords, which accompany it on each fide, and ad- here clofeiy to the tranlverle fibres The fame liriated ap- pearance is to be obierved in the inner parts of this lublltlnce. Medullary ai\h, and centrum ovale. The corpus callofum becomes afterwards continuous on each fide with the medul- lary fubftance; which, through all the remaining parts of its extent, is entirely united with the cortical lubltance, and, to- gether with the corpus callofum, forms a medullary arch or vault of an oblong or oval figure. To perceive this, the whole cortical fubfiance, together with the medullary lami- nae mixed with it, n ull be cautioufly and dextreoully cut in the lame direction with the convexity of the cerebrum , after which we oblerve a medullary convexity, much fmaller than that which is common to the whole cerebrum, but of the fame form ; fo that it appears like a medullary nucleus of the cerelrum, tipeciady when We confider it together with the medullary fubftance of the interior part or Dalis of the cere- brum ; for the deeper we go, the medullary part becomes Vol. II. D thei6- Part VI. THE BRAIN, the broader. From thence M. Vieufiens took occafion to name this nucleus the centrum ovale. Ventrkuli laterales. Under this arch are two lateral cavi- ties, much longer than they are broad, and very thallow, fc- parated by a tran(parent medullary feptum ; of which here- after. Thefe cavities are generally named the anterior fupe- rior ventricles of the cerebrum, to diftinguifh them from two other fmaller cavities which are fituated more backward, as we fhall fee prefently ; but the name of lateral or great ven- tricles, given them by Steno, is more proper than cither of the other two. The lateral ventricles are broad, and rounded at thofe ex- tremities which lie next the tranfparent feptum. They go -from before backward, contrafling in breadth, and gradually feparating from each other in their progrefs. Afterwards they bend downward, and return obliquely from behind fore- ward, in a colirfe like the turning of a ram’s horn, and ter- minate almoft under their fuperior extremities, only a little more backward and outward. At the pofterior part where they begin to bend downward, a particular elongation runs backward on each fide, and ter- minates in a triangular pointed cavity, turned a little inward, the two points refembling horns. Thefe ventricles are every where lined with a continuation of the pia mater. Septum lucidurh. The tranfparent partition, or feptum luci- dum, as it is commonly called, lies direflly under the raphe or future of the corpus calTofum, of which it is a continuation and a kind'of duplicature. It is made up of two medullary laminae, more or lefs feparated from each other by a narrow medullary cavity, fometimes filled with a ferous fubftance. This cavity, in fome fubjefb, reaches a great way backward, and feems to communicate with the third ventricle ; and, as Well as the other cavities of the brain, has been found full of water, in cafes of internal hydrocephalus. Fornix,27 Cliap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. Fornix. The feptum luciduin is united, by its lower part, to the anterior portion of that particular medullary body, cal- led improperly the jornix with three pillars, becaufe of lome refemblance it is thought to bear to the arches of ancient vaults. It is, in reality, nothing but the corpus callolum ; the lower fid£ of which is like a hollow ceiling with three angles, one anterior, and two pofterior ; and three edges, two lateral, and one pofterior. The lateral edges are each ter- minated by a large femicylindrical border, like two arches, which uniting at the anterior angle, form by their union what is called the anterior pillar of the fornix; and, as they run backward feparately toward the two pofterior angles, they have then the name of the pferior pillars. The anterior pillar being double, is larger than either of the pofterior; and the marks of this duplicity always remain. Immediately below the bafts of this pillar, we obferve a large, white, fhort, medullary rope, ftretched tranfverfely between the two hemifpheres, and commonly called the anterior com- miffiire of the cerebrum. It is to this pillar that the feptum lucidum adheres. The pofterior pillars are bent downward, and continued through the lower portions of the ventricles all the way to their extremities, refembling a ram’s horn, which is a name that has been given to them. They gra- dually diminifh in thicknefs during this courfe; and at their outfides they have each a fmall, thin, flat, collateral border, to which the name of corpora fimbriata is applied. The pofterior pillars of the crura of the fornix unite with two medullary protuberances, called pedes hippocampi. The inferior furface of the triangular ceiling, which lies between thefe arches, is full of tranfverfe, prominent medullary lines ; fov which reafon the antients called it pfallpides and lyra, com- paring it to a ftringed inftrument, fomething like what is now called a dulcimer. Under\ \ \ ' UN ‘V, V V %;] ^jlChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. the ventricles; and it is at the lower part of the interface, between the largeft portions of them, that we obferve the great eft tranfverle cord, named the anterior comtniffure of the cerebrunjy which we mentioned already in deferibing the an- terior pillar of the fornix callolus. This cord communicates more particularly with the bottom of the corpora ftriata, by a turn toward each tide. 2 halann net vorum opticorum. The thalami nervorum op- ticorum are lb named, becaule thefe nerves arile chiefly from them. i hey are two large eminences placed by the fide of each oilier, between the pofterior portions or extremities of the corpora ftriata. Their figure is liemilpheroidal and a lit- tle oval, and they are of a whitifli colour on the lurface ; but the^r inner fubftancc is partly grcyiih and partly white, lo that, in cutting them, we lee ftreaks of different colours like thole pi the corpora ftriata. Thele two eminences are clofely joined together; and at their convex part they are lo far united, as really to become one body, the whitifli outer fubitance being continued uni- formly ovtr them both. At ti.e bottom thele two eminences are elongated down- ward toward both fides, into two thick, round, whitifli cords, which leparate from each other like horns, by a large curva- ture ; and afterwards, by a fmall curvature turned forward in an oppofire direction to the former, .and reprelenting the tip of an horn, they approach each other again. The fize of thefe nerves diminifhes gradually from their origin to their interior re-union. We fliall have occafion to mention them more particularly in fpeaking of the optic nerves, Third ventricle. Immediately under the union or begin- ning of the thalami nervorum opticorum, lies a particular ca- vity called the third ventricle of the cerebrum. This cavity communicates at its upper and fore-part with the paffage be- tween the two lateral ventricles, and fends down from its un- derTHE BRAIN, 3° Part VI, der and fore part a paflage through the infundibulum. It opens backwards into the paflage called iter ad quartum ven- triculum. Infundibulum. Between the bafis of the anterior pillar of the fornix, and the anterior part of the union of the optic thalami, lies a fmall medullary canal, named infundibulum. It runs cown towards the bafis of the cerebrum, gradually con- tracting, and terminates by a fmall membranous and ftraight Ganal, in a foftifh body fltuated in the fella turcica, named glandula pituitaria. Plexus choroides. The plexus choroides is a very fine vaf- cular texture, confifiing of a great number of arterial and venal ramifications, partly collected in two loofe fafciculi, which lie on each lateral ventricle, and partly expanded over the neighbouring parts, and covering in a particular manner the thalami nervorum opticorum, glandula pinealis, tubercu- la quadrigemina, and the other adjacent parts both of the cerebrum and cerebellum, to all which it adheres. In each lateral portion of this plexus, we obferve a venal trunk, the ramifications of which are fpread through the whole extent of the two portions. Near the glandula pinea- lis thefe two trunks approach each other, and, uniting behind that gland, they open into the torcular or fourth finus of the dura mater. When we blow into one of thefe trunks to- wards the plexus, the air pa&es into all its ramifications ; and, in fome fubjeds, thefe two veins form one trunk, which opens into the finus. The ventricular or loofe portions of the plexus often ap- pear to contain a great number of tubercles like glands, which, in the natural ftate, are extremely fmall, but grow bigger in dileafes. To be able to examine them as we ought, the loofe portions muft be made to fwim in clear water, and be there carefully expanded. By the help of a microfcope we then feeChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES- fee thefe tubercles in the natural flate, like fmall folliculi, or little bags, more or lefs flatted. Befides this vafcular web, or plexus of the feptum lucidum, the tides of the fornix, of the eminences, ventricles, canals, and infundibulum, are all covered by a very fine membrane, in which, by injections or inflammations, we difeover a great number of very fine veflels. This membrane is in a manner a continuation of the plexus, and that feems to be a detach- ment from the pia mater. By the fame means we likewife difeover an extremely thin membrane on the infides of the duplicature of the feptum, though, in fome fubje&s, thefe fides touch each other. Glatidula pit uit aria. The pituitary gland is a fmall fpongy body lodged in the Telia turcica, between the fphenoidal folds of the dura mater. It is a Angular kind of fubftance, and feems to be neither medullary nor glandular. On the out- fide it is partly greyifh and partly reddifh, but white within. It is tranfverfely oval or oblong ; and on the lower part, in fome fubjeijts, it is divided by a fmall notch into two lobes, like a kidney bean. It is covered by the pia mater as by a bag, the opening of which is the extremity of the infundibu- lum ; and it is furrounded by the fmall circular finufes which communicate with the finus cavernofi. Tubercula. The tubercles are four, in number, two ante- rior and two pofterior, adhering together as if they made but one body fituated behind the union of the thalami nervorum opticorum. They are tranfverfely oblong, the anterior "being a iittle more rounded, and broader or larger from before backward, than the pofterior. Their furface is white, and their inner fubftance greyifh. The names of nates and trftes, given by the antients to thefe tubercles, are not very proper, there being little refemblance between them and the things from which the names are taken. Some of the moderns, with perhaps ftill lefs propriety, have called them tubercula qttadrigemina,32 THE BRAIKf, Part VI. quadrigemina. We fhall ufe the names, however, as we find them. Dire&ly under the place where the tubercles of one fide are united to thole of the other fide, lies the iter ad quartum vetitriculltm, which communicates, by its anterior opening, ■with the third ventricle, under the thalarr.i nervorum opti- corum, and, by its pofterior opening, with the fourth ventri- cle, which belongs to the cerebellum. Foramen commune pojlenus. Where the convex parts of the two anterior tubercles join thele polfermr convex parts of the thalami nervorum opticorum, an interlace or opening is left between thefe four convexities ; but it does not com- municate with the third ventricle, for the bottom of it is fhut up by the pia mater. The name of anus is applied to it. Glandula pinealis. The glandula pinealis is a fmall foft greyifh body, about the fize of an ordinary pea, irregularly round, and fometimes of the figure of a pine apple, fituated behind the thalami nervorum opticorum above the tubercula quadrigemina. It is fixed like a l'mall button to the lower part of the thalami, by two very white medullary pedunculi, which, at the gland, are very near each other, but feparate almoft tranfverfely toward the thalami. It feems to be moftly of a cortical fubftance, except near the footfhilks, where it is fomewhat medullary. The foot- flalks are fometimes double, as if they belonged to the two anterior tubercles. This body adheres very clofe to the plexus choroides, by which it is covered, as we fhall fee here- after ; and it therefore requires fome dexterity to ieparate it from the glandula. without altering its fituation, or breaking the pedunculi. Th.s glaDd has been often found to contain gravel. Eelow the glandula pinealis tlure is a medullary tranfverfe cord, called the pojlaior cdtnmijfure of the hennjphercs tf the cerebrum. § 4-33 AND ITS APPENDAGES. chp. r. § 4. Cettbellum. Situation and figure. The cerebellum is contained under the tranfverle feptum of the dura mater, in the under and back part of the cranium. It is broader laterally than on the fore or back tides, flatted on the upper tide, and gently in- clined both ways, anl’weraole to the ieptum, which lervcs it as a kind of tent or ceiling. On the lower tide it is rounder ; and on the back fide it is divided into two lobes, ieparated by the occipital feptum of the dura mater. StruBure. It coniifts, like the cerebrum, of two fubftances. It has no circumvolutions on its fin-face ; but, inilead of them numerous lulci, which a^e deep, and ddpofed m fuch a man- ner as to form thin flat firata, more or Ids horizontal, be- tween which the internal lamina of the pia mater mlihuutes itlelf by a number of lepta equm to that of the ltr.ita. Under the tranfverfe ieptum, it is coveted by a vafcular texture, which communitaus with the picxus choroidts. It has two middle eminences, called appendices vetmiformes; one anterior and fuperior, which is turned torward ; the other pofterior and inferior, which goes backward. 1 here are like- wife two lateral appendices, both turned outward. They are termed vermiformes, from their reiemblancc to a large poition of an earth-worm. Befides the divifion of the cerebellum into lateral portions, or into two lobes, each of thefe lobes ieerns to be hkewife fubdivided into three protuberances ; one anterior, one mid- dle or lateral, and one polterior : 1 hey are not, in ail fub- jeds, equally dillinguifhed either by their convexity or in, its; but they may always be diftinguifhed by the direction of their ftrata, thole of the middleftmd anterior protuberance being; lefs tranfverfe than the polterior. VoL. II. £ FourthTHE BR AIN, Part VI. J 34 Fourth ventricle. When we feparate the two lateral por- tions or lobes, having firft: made a deep incifion, we difcover, hrft of all, the pofterior portion of the medulla oblongata, of which hereafter ; and, in the pofterior furface of this por- tion, from the tubercula fjuadrigemina, all the way to the pofterior notch in the body of the cerebellum, and a little be- low that notch, we obferve an oblong cavity, which is called the fourth ventricle ; this terminates backward, like the point of a writing pen. Hence the under end of it is called calamus fcriptorius. At the beginning of this cavity we meet with a thin me- dullary lamina, which is looked upon as a valve between that canal and the fourth ventricle. A little behind this lamina, the cavity grows wider towards both fidcs, and then contracts again to its firft fize. It is lined by a thin membrane, and feems often to be diftinguifhed into two lateral parts, by a kind of finall groove, from the valvular lamina to the point of the calamus fcriptorius. This membrane is a continuation of that part of the pia mater which lines the finall canal, the third ventricle, infun- dibulum, and the two great ventricles. To be able to fee the fourth ventricle in its natural ftate, in which it is narroweft, it muft be laid open while the cerebellum remains in the cra- nium i and, in order to that, the os occipitis muft be fawen very low down. On each fide of this ventricle, the medullary fubftance forms a trunk which expands itfelf in form of laminae through the cortical ftrata. But here we find the medullary bearing a lefs proportion to the cortical than.it does in the cerebrum. We difcover thefe medullary laminae according to their breadth, by cutting the cerebellum in dices almoft parallel to the balls of the cerebrum ; but, if we cut one lobe of the cerebellum vertically, the medullary fubftance will ap- pear to be difperfed in ramifications through the cortical fub- ftance,Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 3S fiance. Tliefe ramifications have been named arbor vitae'; and the two trunks, from whence thefe different laminae arife, are called pedunculi cerehelli. We cannot go on with the description of the other middle parts of the bafis of the cerebellum, before that of the middle parts of the balls of the cerebrum ■, becaufe thefe two parts are united, and jointly form the medulla oblongata. We fhall only add here, that the flrata of both fubftances of the cerebellum are not always of the fame extent in the fame por- tions or protuberances of each lobe. This appears merely by viewing the convex or outer fin face of the cerebellum ; for there we fee, at different dillances, fome cortical flrata fliorter than others, and likewile that the extremities of the fhcrfc flrata gradually diminilh in thicknefs, till they are quite loft between two long ones. If we make a fmall hole in the external lamina of the pia mater, over one of the lobes of the cerebellum, without touch- ing the inner lamina, and then blow into the cellular fub- ftance, connedling thefe two laminae, through a fmall pipe introduced into the hole ; the air will gradually fwell that fubflance, and feparate the flrata more or Iefs equally from each other through their whole extent ; and we fhall fee at the fame time the difpolition of all the membranous fepta or duplicatures of the internal lamina of the pia mater, with the numerous diftribution of the fine blood veffels which run up- on it, efpecially after a lucky injection, or in an inflammatory flate of thefe membranes. § 5. Medulla oblongata„ The medulla oblongata is a medullary fubflance, fltuated from before backward, in the middle part of the bafes of the cerebrum and cerebellum, without any difcontinuation, be- tween the lateral parts of both thefe bales j and therefore it mayTHE BRAIN, 35 Part VF. may be looked upon as one middle medullary bnfis, common to both cerebrum and cerebellum, by the reciprocal continu- ity of their medullary fuhllances, through the great notch in the tranfverfe feptum of the dura mater; which common bafi' lies immediately on that portion of the dura mater lining the bafis of the cranium. The medulla oblongata is there- fore juftly efteemed to be a third general part of the whole mafs of the brain, or as the common production, or united elonguion, of the whole medullary fubftahee of the cerebrum and cerebellum. It is extremely difficult, if not altogether impoffible, to ex- amine or demonftrate it as we ought, in its natural fituation ; bu; we are obliged to do both on a brain inverted. The lower tide of the medulla oblongata, in an inverted fituation preterits to out view levers] parts, which are in ge- neral e th. r meduilary productions, trunks of nei ves, or trunks of blood vcfl'els. The chief medullary productions are thefe ; the large or anterior branches of the medulla oblongata, which have like— wile been named crura anteriora, femora, and brachia medullae oblongat ae, and ptduncuii cerebri: The tranfverfe protuberance, called hkewife procejfus annularis or pons Varolii: The fmall or poflerior branches, called pedumuli ctrebelli, or crura pojlerio ra medullae oblongatae : The extremity or cauda of the medul- la oblongata, with two pairs of tubercles; one of which is named corpora olivaria, the other corpora pyramidaha ; and to all thefe productions we mull add a production of the infun- dibulum and two medullary papillae. 'J he great branches of the medulla oblongata are two very confiderable medullary fafciculi; the anterior extremities of which are feparated, and the poftenor united, fo that, taken together, they fomewhat reprefent a'Roman V. 1 hefe fas- ciculi are flat, much broader before than behind ; the* tur- t T faces being compoied of leveral longitudinal and diftinCtly prominent-Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 37 * prominent medullary fibres. Their anterior extremities feem to be loll at the lower part of the corpora ftriata •, and, it is for that realon that they are efteemed the pedunculi of the cerebrum. The tranlverfe annular, or rather femi-annular protube- rance, is a medullary production, which feems at firft fight to furround the pofterior extremities of the great branches ; but the mtdullary fubftance of the protuberance is in reality intimately mixed with that of the two former. Varolius, an ancient Italian author, viewing thefe parts in an inverted fi- xation, compared the two branches to two rivers, and the protuberance to a bridge over them both ; and from thence it has the name of pons Varolii. Its furface"'is tranfverfely flreaked, and is divided into two lateral parts by a very nar- row longirudinal deprefiion, which does not penetrate into its fubftance. When we cut into the fubftance of the pons, we find much cortical fubftance within it, and this formed into ftriae, which run in various directions. And the fame thing will be found with refpcCt to the medullary part of the brain •, for there is icarcely any part of it but what has cor« tical ftriae running through it.—See Monro’s Obfervations on the Nervous Syftem, Tab. VII. The fmall branches cf the medulla oblongata are lateral productions of the tranfverfe protuberance, which by their roots feem to encompafs that medullary portion in which the fourth ventricle or calamus fcriptorius is formed. They form in the lobes of the cerebellum, on each fide, thofe medul- lary expanfions, a vertical feCtion cf which fhews the white ramifications commonly called atbor vitae i and they may be juftly enough ftyled pedunculi eerebtlli. The extremity is no more than the medulla oblongata con- tracted in its paffi’.ge backward to the anterior edge of the foramen magnum of the os occipitis, vvhere it terminates in the medulla ipirialis j and, in this part of it, leveral things arc toTHE BRAIN, 3* Part Vh to be taken notice of. We fee, firR of all, four eminences, two named corpora olivaria, and the other two corpora pyrami- dalia. Immediately afterwards, it is divided into two lateral portions by two narrow grooves, one on the upper fide, the other on the lower. They both run into the fubftance of the medulla, as between two cylinders, flatted on that fide by which they are joined together. When we feparate thefe ridges with the fingen, we ob- ferve a crucial intertexture of feveral fmall medullary cords, which go obliquely from the fubflance of one lateral portion into the fubftance of the other. M. Petit, member of the Royal Academy of Sciences, and doctor of phyfic, is the author of this difcovery, by which we are enabled to explain feveral phenomena, both in phyfiology and pathology ; of which in another place. The corpora olivaria and pyramidalia are whitifh eminen- ces, fituated longitudinally near each other, on the lower fide of the extremity or cauda, immediately behind the tranf- verfe or annular protuberances. The corpora pyramidalia are in the middle ; fo that the interftice between them, which is only a kind of fuperficial groove, anfwers to the inferior groove of the following portion. The corpora olivaria are two lateral eminences fituated at the outfide of the former, and are thus termed by Willis, Duvtrney, Haller, &c. but Winflow reverfes the names. Thefe four eminences are fituated on the lower half of the medulla; which obfervation we here repeat, to make it be remembered, that, in all the figures and demonftrations, thefe parts are reprefented as fuperior, which, in their natu- ral fituation, are inferior. Thus thefe eminences are under the fourth ventricle, and under the pedqnculi cerebelli. The tubercula mnmmillaria, which are fituated very near the production of the infundibulum, have been taken for glands j probably becaufe of their greyifh inner fybftance, which,Chap. T. 39 AND ITS APPENDAGES.' which, however, does not feem to be different from that of feveral other eminences of the medulla oblongata. And, for that reafon, we choofe rather to call them, from their figure, iubercula mammillaria, than papillae medulla res. Thefe tubercles feem to have fome immediate relation to the roots or bales of the anterior pillar of the fornix ; fo that we might call them, as M. Santorini has done, the bulbs of thefe roots, though they appear to be likewife part of a conti- nuation of other portions of the cortical and medullary fub- ftance, of a particular texture. The beak or tube of the infundibulum is a very thin pro- duction from the fides of that cavity, and it is ftrengthened by a particular coat given to it by the pia mater. It is bent a little from behind forward, toward the glandula pituitaria, and afterwards expands again round this gland. The membrana arachnoides, or external lamina of the pia mater, appears to be very diftin&ly feparated from the inter- nal lamina, in the interftices between all thefe eminences on the lower fide of the medulla oblongata, without any vifible cellular fubffance between them. The internal lamina ad- heres much more to the furface of thefe interftices than to that of the eminences. The external lamina is as it were buoyed up by the eminences, and equally ftretched between . their moft prominent parts, to which it flicks very clofe j "and in this refpeft the roots or great cornua of the optic nerves may be joined to thefe eminences. We muft obferve in general concerning the eminences of the medulla oblongata, that thofe which are medullary on their outfides or furfaces, are interiorly either entirely corti- cal, or partly cortical and partly medullary, or formed by a fingular mixture of thefe two fubftances, which ftill remains to be unfolded, as well a3 many other peculiarities obfervable in examining the internal ftruefure of the brain.Part VL 40 THE BRAIN, From this common portion of the cerebrum and cerebel- lum, arife almoft all the nerves which go out of the cranium, through the different foramina perforating its bale. It hke- wife produces the medulla fpinalis, which is no more than a common elongation of the cerebrum and cerebellum, and of their different lubftances ; and therefore the medulla oblon- gata may juftly be laid to be the firlt origin or primitive | fource of all the nerves which go out through the lpina dor- , and confequently of all the nerves of the human body. § 6» Medulla Spinalis. The medulla fpinalis is only an elongation of the extre- mity of the medulla oblongata ; and it has its name from its being contained in the bony canal of the fpina dorfi. It is confequently a continuation or common appendix of the ce- j rebrum and cerebellum, as well becaufe of the two lubltances of which it is compofed, as becaufe of the membranes by which it i6 inverted. In the defeription of the frefh bones, mention was made of a ligamentary fubrtance which lines the inner furface of this bony canal, from the great occipital foramen to the os facrum. Befides this, the dura mater, after it lias lined the whole internal furface of the cranium, goes out by the fora- men magnum occipitis, and forms a kind of funnel, in its progrefs downward, through the bony canal of the ver- tebrae. As it goes out at the occipital hole, it joins the be- ginning of the ligamentary funnel already mentioned, and adheres very ftrongly to it. That portion of the pericra- nium which terminates exteriorly at the edge of the great foramen, joins the funnel likewife, which, by all thefe accef- fions becomes very ftrong, and capable of refilling the great- eft violences. This4i AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. This adheiion of the dura mater to the ligamentary funnel Is gradually difcontinued below the firft vertebra ; and from thence the dura mater forms a feparate tube, which runs down the bony canal all the way to the os facrnm, the capa- city of it anfwering to that of the canal; but it does not ad- here clofely to the Tides, as it does to thofe of the cranium. It is furrounded by a {limy fubftance, which, near the lower end of the canal, refembles Tat. The fpinal marrow confifts of a cortical and medullary fubftance, as the cerebrum and cerebellum j but with this difference, that the afh-coloured fubftance lies within the other ; and, in a tranfverfe fedtion of this medulla, the inner fubftance appears to be of the form of a horfe fkoe, t;he con- vex fide being turned forward and the extremities backward. The body of the medulla fpinalis runs down to the bottom, of the firft vertebra of the loins, where it terminates in a point. The fize of it is proportionable to that of the bony canal, fo that it is larger in the vertebrae of the neck than thofe of the back. It is a little flatted on the-fore and back parts, fo that we may diftinguifh in it two fides, one anterior, the other pofterior, and two edges. It is likewife feemingly divided into two lateral halves or cords by a groove, which runs along the middle of its anterior and pofterior furfaces, being a continuation of thofe in the extremity of the medulla oblongata. The cords are applied clofely together, but may be eafily feparated before as well as behind, till we come to their middle or deepeft part, where they are joined together by a thin layer of cineritious fubftance palling from the one cord into the other. Each lateral portion fends off from both the fore and back fides, between the grooves and the edges, at different diftan- ces, flat fafciculi of nervous filaments turned toward the neareft edge. The anterior and pofterior fafciculi are fepa- rated from each other by the ligamentum denticulatum ; then II. F pallingTHE BRAIN, Part VI, 4? palling outwards, they go through the dura mater by two diftinft opening!; very near each other. Having penetrated the dura mater, the pofterior bundle forms a ganglion,' from the oppofite end of which the trunk comes out again, and is there joined by the anterior bundle. The dura mater which inverts the medulla, fends out on each fide the fame number of vaginae, as there are ganglious and nervous trunks. Thefe vaginae are produ&ions of the external lamina ; the internal lamina, which is very fmooth and polifhed on the infide, being perforated by two finall holes very near each other, where each vagina goes off-, through which holes the anterior and polterior fafciculi are tranfmitted, and, immediately after their paflage through the internal part, they unite. The triangular fpaces left between the anterior and pofte- rior fafciculi and the edge of the medulla, are filled from one extremity to the other by an indented ligament very thin and fhining, having the fame number of indentations as there arc pairs of fafciculi. It is clofely connected by numerous threads to the pia mater at each fide of the medulla, while the oppofite fide fends out indentations, the greater number of which run tranfverfely, though others go obliquely up- wards or downwards; and all of them, after being fplit into threads, are fixed to the inner fide of the dura mater. The under end of the ligamentum denticulatum, runs as far as the os coccygis, and is what authors have confidered as the fortieth pair of nerves *; from whence it fends filaments to the internal part of the dura mater, by which the anterior fafciculi are diftinguifhed from the pofterior. The membrana arachnokles is here very diftirtCl from the internal lamina of the pia mater : So that, by blpwing through a hole made in the arachnoides, it will fwell from one * For this and the three preceding paragraphs, fee Monro pn the Nervous Syftem, Tab. J^. X. XVII, ,43 Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. one end to the other, like a tranfparent gut. The internal lamina, called in this place (Imply the pid water, adheres very clofely to the medulla fpinalis, and fends many productions and fepta through its fubftance. If, by a hole made in the pia mater, we inflate the fubftance/ of one lateral portion of the medulla, the air penetrates through the whole of it, and the pia mater, which covers the other lateral portion, is fe- parated from it. The membrana arachnoides adheres more clofely to the pia mater at the lower, than at the upper part, being, as it were, fufpended by the indented ligament which runs along both edges of the medulla, and is fixed, as was mentioned above, by a filament, to the internal lamina of the dura mater in each interftice between the nervous fafciculi. It al(o gives ofF elongations, in the fame manner as the dura mater, to each nervous trunk or rope, as we fhall fee hereafter. § 7. The Nerves of the Brain and. Spinal Alarroiu, from their origin to their going out of the Cranium and Spine. The nerves arife either from the brain, medulla oblongata, or fpinalis; and they go out in fafciculi difpofed in pairs* They may be divided into three dalles, viz. nerves which pafs through the cranium, nerves immediately from the fpU nal marrow, and nerves from the brain and fpinal marrow conjointly; to which lafi: clafs the great fympathetic nerve belongs. Ten pairs belong to the brain and medulla oblon- gata, of which nine go out through the foramina of the cra- nium, and the tenth arifes from the extremity of this medul- la as it pafies through the great occipital hole; and la/llj, 29 pairs belong to the medulla fpinalis, of which (even pafs through the lateral notches of the vertebrae cervicis, twelve through thofe of the back, five through thofe of the loins, and five through the anterior holes of the os facrum. WeTHE BRAIN*, 44 Part VL We fhall, at prefent, only make fome particular obfervations on the nerves while they remain within the bones, and re- ferve the defcription of their courfe through the whole body to its proper place. Nerves cj the brain. The fir ft pair of nerves that arifc from the brain are the olfa&ory, anciently called procejfus mommillares. Thefe are two very flat and foft medullary ropes, each arifing firft by medullary fibres from the outfide of the lower part of the corpora ftriata, between the anterior and middle lobe, on each fide of the cerebrum, and afterwards by another filament more internally; and laftly, by a third, which is more pofterior and very long. They run under the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, being lodged in two fuperfi- cial grooves in the bafis of thefe lobes, and lying immediately on the dura mater, from the clinoid apophyfis to the os eth- moides. They are firft of all confiderably incurvated from without inward or toward each other, and, having reached near the back-Gde of the os ethmoides, they run for a fcnall fpace pa- rallel to, and at fome diftance from, each other. Backward they are very thin; but their bulk gradually increafes in their courfe forward toward each fide of the crifta galli, where they terminate in elongated papillae, the fubftance of which appears to be fofter and lefs white than that of the nerves, as Dr Soemmering hath beft defCribed in his book, De Baf. Enceph. tt Orig. Nervor. to which the reader is referred. Thefe papillae lie on the two fides of the lamina cribrofa, and fend down a nervous filament through each hole of that lamina. At the fame place, the dura mater fends off the fame number of vaginae, which inveft and accompany the nervous filaments and their ramifications on the internal parts of the nofe. We have already related the origin of the fecond pair, or optic nerves, from the eminences called thalami nervorum op~ ticorumAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 4$ ticorum; and we have defcribed their great curvature, and traced them all the way to their re-union, which happens immediately before the fuperior part of the glandula pituita- ria, and confequently before the beak or production of the infundibulum. The internal carotids run upon the outfides of thefe nerves, immediately after their union, and before they pafs through the foramina optica. Befides their origin from the optic thalami, thefe nerves have likewife a kind of communication with the tubercula quadrigemina anteriora, by very fine filaments; one extremity of which is loft in the tubercles, the other in the roots of the great arches or bodies of the optic nerves. They are al- fo connected with the crura cerebri. The internal ftru&ure of thefe nerves feems to change at their entrance into the optic holes, as we fhall fee in another place. The union of thefe nerves, by the fmall curvatures of their cornua, is very difficult to be unfolded in human bodies. This union is commonly found to be very clofe j but, in fome fubje&s, it feems to be no more than a ftrong adhefion ; in others, to be partly made by an interfe&ion or crofting of fibres. They have indeed been found quite feparate ; and in other fubjeCts, one of them has been obferved to be very much altered, both in fize and colour, through its whole paflage, the other remaining in its natural ftate. The third pair, called nervi motor es, oculi communes, oculures communes, and oculo-mufculares, arife from the crura cerebri4 between the corpora albicantia and a fulcus that feparates the crura from the tuber annulare, by numerous threads collected into two bundles, the one a little longer than the other. Thefe foon unite into their refpedtive trunks, which pierce the dura mater behind the lateral parts of the pofterior apo- phylis of the lella turcica, and pafs afterwards along the finus cavernofi, by the fide of the carotid artery, and all the way toPart VL THE BRAIN, 46 to the bro&d portion of the fuperior orbitary fiflure, where they are divided in the manner to be afterward defcribed. The fourth pair, called tiervi trochlearesy mufculares obliqui fuperiores, and moft commonly pathetici, are very fmall and tender, and, in proportion, very long. They arife each be- hind the teftes by one, and fometimes by two, fmall threads. From thence they take their courfe forward all the way to the edge of the anterior extremities of the tentorium, a little to the outer fide of the pofterior clinoid procefs, where on each fide they enter the duplicature of the dura mater, and advancing by the fide of the finus cavernofi, they accompany the third pair to the fuperior orbitary fiflure. The fifth pair, called nervi innominati, or trigemini, are at firft large trunks arifing by two fafciculi from the outer and fore part of the crura cerebelli, where they join the tuber annulare a little before the feventh pair. They run down obliquely forward on the extremity of the upper or anterior fide of the apophyfis petrofa, very near the fide of the fella fphenoidalis, where they enter the duplicature of the dura mater and finus cavernofi. At their entry into the finus, they form a kind of flat irre- gular ganglion, from which fome filaments are fent off to the dura mater ; and, immediately afterward, each of them is di- vided into three great branches, one fuperior or anterior, one middle, and one inferior or pofterior. The firft branch, which may be termed ocularis or ophthalmicus, accompanies the nerves of the third and fourth pairs through the foramen lacerum of the fphenoid bone. The fecond, called maxi/laris fuperior, goes out by the foramen rotundum; and the third, named tnaxi/laris inferior, by the foramen ovale of the fame bone. As the great trunk of this nerve runs down, it per- forates the membrana arachnoides, which at this place forms a kind of ceiling. TheAND ITS APPENDAGES. (Chap. I. 47 The fixth pair, named motores oculorum extern!, oculares or ophthalmic! externi, and oculo mufculares externi, are fmall nerves, but Hill not fo fmall as the fourth pair; and they have fome- times been found double. They arife from a fulcus between the back part of the tuber annulare and beginning of the me. dulla oblongata, and palling immediately under the tuber, they pierce the dura mater behind the occipital fymphylis of the fphenoidal bone. They run on each fide in the duplicature of the dura mater to the cavernous linus; and having entered that finus, each of them crofies the outlide of the internal carotid artery in their way to the foramen lacerum. In this courfe, they com- municate with the firft branch of the fifth pair, and by a fila-« ment’ or two, which arife from the great fympathetic nerve, and run up with the carotid artery. The feventh pair, named a'uditorii, are each divided into two portions; one, from its hardnefs, when compared with the other parts, is called portio dura, or nervus fympatheticus minor. This arifes from the fpace where the crus cerebellj joins the tuber annulare. The other part is larger and fofter than the former, and is called portio mollis, or the true audi- tory nerve. It arifes from the inner furface of the fourth ven- tricle, and is afterwards joined by an intermediate portion deferibed by Dr Wrifberg. The portio mollis is hollowed out to receive the portio dura, which accompanies it to the fora- men auditorium internum. The eighth pair arife from the poflerior extremities of the large branches or crura of the medulla oblongata, a little to the outer fide of the corpora olivaria, by numerous filaments, which are collected into two bundles, one called glaffopharyn- geum, the other par vagum, or nervus fympatheticus medius. This runs toward the foramen lacerum, where it pierces the dura mater, and goes out through the anterior part of that |tqle, having been firft' joined by a nervous portion that runs m'4* THE BRAIN, Part VI, ap from the medulla fpinalis through the great occipital fora- men, by the name of nervus aceejfortus oElavi parts, or nervus fpinalis. This additional nerve goes out with that of the eighth pair through the foramen lacerum, lying behind it, but diftinguifhed from it by a membranous feptum. The ninth pair, called nervi byppoglojft externi, hyppoglojft tnajcres, and commonly gufatorii, arile each from the furrow that feparates the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia. Thefe branches foon unite into a trunk which pafles through the anterior condyloid hole; fometimes the branches form two trunks, which, after piercing the dura mater, unite and go through the hole above mentioned. The tenth pair, called nervi fub-occipitales, arife under the ninth pair, chiefly from the anterior, and a little from the la- teral part of the extremity of the medulla oblongata, oppo- lite to the pofterior part of the condyloid apophyfis of the occipital bone, by a Angle plane or fafciculus of fmall fila- ments which pierce the dura mater diredlly from within out- ward, at the fame place where the vertebral arteries perforate it from without inwards. One or two threads frequently come from the back part of the medulla, and are at firfi: fe- parated from the anterior bundle by the nervus acceflorius and ligamentum denticulatum j but afterwards unite with it into one trunk. Nerves of the medulla fpinalis. The nerves formed by the j lateral union of the anterior and poflerior filaments of the medulla fpinalis, go out of the bony canal of the fpina dorfi, j Coward each fide, through the intervertebral holes, through the anterior holes of the os facrum, and the lateral notches of the os coccygis ; and from thence they have the general name of nervi vertebrales. They are divided, in the fame manner as the vertebrae, into feven pair of cervical nerves, twelve pair of dorfal, five pair of lumbar, and five pair of peryi facri. , As !Chap. I. A9 AND ITS APPENDAGES. As the fpinal marrow which furniflies all thefe nerves, fel- dom goes lower than the firit or fecond vertebra of the loins, the fituation of the fafciculi of nervous filaments muft be dif- ferent from that of the holes through which they pafs; and feveral of thefe fafciculi, both anterior and pofierior, muft be longer than the reft. This we find from experience to be the cafe, in the following manner. The fafciculi of nervous filaments of the medulla fpinalis, which produce the cervical nerves, run more or lefs tranf- verfely toward each fide from their origin to their paflage through the intervertebral holes. The fafciculi which form the dorfal nerves run a little obliquely downward from their origin to the intervertebral holes; and thofe which form the lumbar nerves run down more and more longitudinally from the medulla to the holes by which they go out. The cervical fafciculi therefore are very fhort in the fpinal canal; the dorfal fafciculi are longer, and the fafciculi from the loins and os facrum very long. It muft likewife be ob- ferved, that the fafciculi of the four loweft pairs of the cer- vical nerves, and firft pair of the dorfal nerves, are broader and more compounded than the following, becaufe the bra- chial nerves are a continuation of thefe. The filaments be- longing to the lumbar nerves, and thofe of the os facrum, are likewife very broad, and made up of numerous filaments, as being the roots of the large nerve? which go to the lower extremities. The dorfal filaments are very fmall. The cervical and lumbar fafciculi are not only broader, and confift of more filaments than the dorfal, but alfo fitu- ated much clofer to each other, the lumbar fafciculi being ftill more fo than the cervical; whereas in the dorfal a con- fiderable interftice is left between the fafciculi. Thefe lumbar fafciculi, from their origin to the extremity of the os facrum, form, through the whole canal of the lum- bar vertebrae and of the os facrum, a large bundle of nervous Vol. II. G ropes, I50 THE BRAIN, Part VI. ropes, called by anatomifts cauda equina, beenufe of fome re- femblance which it bears to a horfe’s tail, efpecially when ta- ken out of the canal, and extended in clear water. Though the medulla fpinalis ends at the firft vertebra of the loins, the vagina of the dura mater, by which it is invert- ed, is continued through the reft of the bony canal all the way to the extremity of the os facruin, and involves the great bundle or cauda equina, the cords of which pierce it on each fide nearly oppofite to the places where they pafs through the intervertebral holes, and the anterior holes of the os fa- crum, almoft in the fame manner as was faid above in deferib- ing the general formation of the vertebral nerves. After this vagina of the dura mater is detached from the fpinal canal, by cutting the tranfverfe branches which go out of the intervertebral holes, it appears to have evident marks of elafticity, for it immediately fhrinks up, as an artery or other elaftic firing would do, when cut acrofs. Therefore its true length muft be taken while it is in fitu, and likewife the true fituation of the lateral elongations. From all this, a conclufion may be drawn, of great impor- tance, not only in anatomical and philofophical inquiries, but alfo for underftanding local difeafes, wounds, &c. which is, that, when we have occafion to confider any particular nerves near the vertebrae of the back or loins, or near the os facrum, we muft remember that, in the fpina dorfi, the origin of thefe nerves is not even with their paflage out of the fpine, but proportionably higher. If, for inftance, we enquire a- bout any of' the lowed nervi facri near the os coccygis, we muft not flop at the extremity of the os facrum, but trace its origin as high as the laft vertebra of the back, or firft of the loins. The membrana arachnoides accompanies the original fas- ciculi feparately, to their pafiage through the lateral elonga- tions of the dura mater, forming a kind of duplicature, breaks.5* Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. the breaks, or difcontinuations, between the cords which run in the vagina of the dura mater. The pia mater adheres very clofely both to the fafciculi and filaments of which they are compofed. Among the original productions of the nerves of the me- dulla fpinalis, we ought ftill to reckon the formation of the nervi acceflorii of the eighth pair. They arife from the la- teral parts of this medulla by feveral filaments, about the third or fourth vertebrae of the neck, and fometimes lower. They run up on each fide between the anterior and poiterior ranks of the nervous fafciculi, gradually increafing in fize by the acctffion of new filaments from the pofferior fafciculi. Having reached above the firft vert-ebra of the neck, they have a kind of adlufion or communication with the neigh- bouring ganglions of the nervi fub-occipitales, or thofe of the tenth pair. Above this adhefion they receive two filaments each, from the back fide of the medullaj and afterwards con- tinue their courfe towards the great occipital foramen. As they enter the cranium, they communicate with the nerves cf the ninth and tenth pairs} and alterwards they join thofe of the eighth pair, with which they return out of the cranium. § S. Elocd V?J)cls of the Braiti and Medulla Spinalis. Arteries. The arteries which fupply the cerebrum, cerebel- lum, and medulla oblongata, come partly from the carotids which enter the cranium through the canals in the apophy- fes petrof'ae of the ofla temporum, and partly from the ver- tebrales which enter by the great occipital foramen, and fend off the arteriae fpinales into the canal of the fpine for the medulla lodged there. All thefe arteries are divided into feveral branches, which fend out a great number of ramifications diflributed through both fubftances of the brain, and through the whole extent of52 THE BRAIN, Part VF. the pia mater. The dura mater, both of the cerebrum and cerebellum, has arteries peculiar to itfelf, which have been already deferibed. The internal carotid on each fide enters the cranium by the great canalis petrofus, in an angular or winding courfc, as was obferved in the defeription of the fkelcton. The in-, ner furface of this canal is lined by a production common to the dura mater and inferior pericranium, to which the artery adheres only by a loofe filamentary fubftance, wherein the plexiform filaments, belonging to the great fympathetic nerve, run. Having pafi'ed through the bony canal, it immediately bends upward towards a notch in the fphenoidal bone, and through that notch it enters the cranium. Ia'imediately af- ter this it penetrates the cavernous finus on the fide of the fella turcica ; where having formed a third curvature, it goes out from it, from below upwards, and is bent a fourth time round the anterior clinoid apophyfis, from before back- ward. By this courfe, it is in a manner bathed in the blood of the cavernous finus, together with the fixth pair of nerves. After this fourth curvature, the internal carotid having now reached the fide of the infundibulum, and confequently being very near its fellow, thefe two arteries communicate femetimes by a very fhort tranfverfe arterial produ&ion. At this place, each of them, after fending a branch through the foramen opticum to the eye, divides into two principal branches, one anterior, the other pofterior ; and fometimes into three ; in which cafe there is a middle branch between the two former. The anterior branch runs, firfi: of all, forward under the bafis of the cerebrum, feparating a little from the fame branch of the other carotid. They approach each other again under M the interface between the two olfa&ory nerves, communica- ) ting : iChap. I. 53 AND ITS APPENDAGES. ting by a very fliort anaftomofis, and fending fmall twigs to that pair of nerves. They afterwards feparate, being each divided into two or three rami. The firft ramus of the anterior branch goes to the ante- rior lobe of the cerebrum. The fecond, which is fometimes double, is inverted on the corpus callofum, to which it gives ramifications, as alfo to the falx of the dura mater and middle lobe of the cerebrum. The third, which is fometimes a di- ftindt branch, fometimes only an additional ramus to the fe- cond, goes to the pofterior lobe of the cerebrum. This third ' ramus is often fo confiderable, as to deferve to be reckoned the middle branch of the three principal ones. The pofterior branch communicates firft of all with the vertebral artery of the fame fide, and is then divided into fe- veral rami on the fuperficial circumvolutions of the cere- brum, and between thefe circumvolutions all the way to their bottom. The anterior and middle branches, when there are three, diflribute the fame kind of ramifications to the cir- cumvolutions, and to their interfaces. All thefe different ramifications run on the duplicature of the pia mater, from which they receive a kind of additional coats j and the capillaries being diftributed upon it in a reti- cular manner, afterwards penetrate the cortical and medul- lary fubftance ; in which laft they terminate infenfibly. The vertebral arteries enter through the great occipital foramen, having firft pierced on each fide the elongations of ’ the dura mater at the fame place where the fub-occipital nerves, or thofe of the tenth pair, pierce it as they go out; the arteries in this place lying above the nerves. At their entry into the cranium, they each fend feveral rami- fications to the cauda of the medulla oblongata, and to the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia: Which ramifications are diftributed on the fides of the fourth ventricle; produce the plexus choroides j are fpread on the whole furface of the ce- rebellum ;THE BRAIN, Part VL 54 The rebellum; infinuafe themfelves between the ftrata, always in- verted by the duplicature of the pia mater; and arc at length loft in both fubftances of the cerebellum. The two vertebral arteries afterwards turn toward each Other, for the moft part immediately under the pofterior edge of the great tranlverfe or femi-annular protuberance of the medulla oblongata, where they unite and form one com- mon trunk. This trunk paffes directly from behind forward, under the middle of the great protuberance, and partly in the middle groove of the convex furface of that protuberance, at the anterior edge of which it terminates. In its paflage through the groove, this trunk fends off fe- veral fmall branches on each fide, which furround tranfverfe- ly the lateral portions of the protuberance, and are partly lodged in the fmall lateral grooves of thefe portions. Thefe lateral branches are afterwards diftributed to the neighbour- ing parts of the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblon- gata. This common or middle trunk of the vertebral arteries having reached the edge of the great protuberance, is again divided into fmall branches; each of which foon communi- cates with the trunk of the internal carotid on the fame fide. Inftead of this bifurcation, each of the two laft, or more an- terior lateral branches, fometimes fend a fmall branch for- ward, which form anaftomofes with the internal carotids. The principal arteries of the medulla fpinalis, called com- monly arteriaefpinales> are two in number, one anterior, and one pofterior, lodged in the grooves by which the medulla is divided into lateral portions on both fides. They arife from the vertebral arteries, a little above the great occipital foramen, where thefe arteries each fend a fmall ramus down- ward, as foon as they enter the cranium ; and having got under the extremity of the medulla oblongata, they fend off' two other branches backward.AND ITS APPENDAGES. 55 Chap. I. The firft two branches uniting foon after their origin, form the arteria fpinalis anterior, which runs down within the ca- nal ot the vertebrae, along the anterior groove of the me- dulla. The other two f'mall branches are inverted on the fides of the medulla oblongata, and from thence running backward, they unite much in the fame manner with the firft two, and form the arteria fpinalis potferior, which runs down along the pofterior groove or the medulla fpinalis. The two fpinal arteries, in their cou fe downward along the medulla, fend off on each fide lateral ramifications, by which they frequently communicate with each other, and with the vertebral, intercoftal, lumbar, and facral arteries j fometimes they feem to be fplit for a little way, and then unite again. The veins of the cerebrum and cerebellum, &x. may, in general, be confidered as not only forming the longitudinal finus of the dura mater, and the two great lateral finufes, but alfo all the inferior finules of that membrane ; in all which finufes the veins terminate by different trunks, in the manner already faid in the defcription of the great fuperior finus. Their principal ramifications accompany all the cor- tical circumvolutions of the cerebrum, and directions of the ftrata of the cerebellum, running always in the duplicature of the pia mater. The veins of the plexus choroides, in ge- neral, are of the number of thofe already mentioned. The veins of the medulla fpinalis terminate partly in the fuperior extremities of the two vertebral veins, partly in the two venal ropes termed firms veiiof, which run down lateral- ly on the convex fide of the production of the dura mater, and form, at different diltances, reciprocal communications, by femiannular arches, as by fo many fubordinate finufes. The two longitudinal finufes communicate likewife in their paffige with the vertebral veins, in the fame manner as the neighbouring arteries. FromPart VI. 56 - THE BRAIN, From the foregoing hiftory of the arteries belonging to the brain, it appears that a very great quantity of blood, de- rived from trunks that are near the heart, is, at every pulfa- tion, fent to this organ : Dr Haller fays a fixth part, Dr. Monro a tenth part of the whole circulating mafs. Hence it is probable, that the ftrongeft parts of the blood, and fuch as are mod retentive of motion, go to the head. Is not this evident from the effects of mercurials exerting themfelves al- raoft in the head only ? from the fudden force and a&ion of inebriating fpirits upon the head ? from the fhort ftupor which camphor excites ? from the heat, rednefs, and fweat, which happen oftener in the face than other parts of the body ? to which add, the more eafy eruption of volatile and contagious puftules in the face ? Dr. Wrifberg, however, obferves, that all thefe arguments are not of the fame force ; for mercury, applied in different ways to the body, produces its effedts not in the head alone; fince it occafions in fome patients a diaphorefis, in others a diarrhoea, and in others it adts as a diuretic. The well guarded paflage of the great and important veflels in their afeent to the head, defends them from any material injury. The frequent modulations of the one trunk, with the other going to the head, as well, as the frequent communication of their branches among . themfelves, leflen any danger that might enfue from obftruc- tion. Hence, when the carotids are tied, the animal neither dies nor feems to be very uneafy. The confiderable flexures of the vertebral and carotid artery ferve to moderate the im- pulfe of the blood coming to the brain, fince a great part of the velocity which the blood receives from the heart, is fpent by the various infledlions. To which we may add, that the arteries in their afeent, grow larger and wider. With refpedl to the brain, we obferve it providently fur- rounded on all fides, firft by a fphere of bones, confiding of many diftindt portions, which fuffer it to extend, and at the fameAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 5? fame time effedhlally guard it againfl: external preffure. The dura inater lines the internal lurface of this bony fphere, and is fo tirmly attached to it by a vaft number of fmall vef- feis, as to be no where ealily feparable in a healthy perfon , this membrane being very thin and fmooth, adheres lels firm- ly to the bones, and more ftrongly to the futures. In young- er fubje&s, the adhefion of the dura mater to the fkull is fo great, that the feparation of it pulls of the fibres of the bones, to which it is connected. In adults, many of the vel- fels being effaced, it becomes more eafily feparable ; yet it is not without fome force that the dura mater can, even in old men, be feparated from the fkull. The bloody drops which appear on the furface of the dura mater, after removing the cranium, are occafioned by the rupture of the veffels going from the membrane into the fubftance of the brain. Hence appears the vanity of all that has been advanced concerning the motion of the dura mater. As to the motion which is remarked by the writers of obfervations upon wounds in this part, it feems to be in conference of the beating of the arteries, or of the brain fwelhng during expiration. That part, fays Dr Haller, which is properly the dura mater, viz. the inner portion, has neither nerves nor fenfation, nor irritability, while the outer part is fupplied with fmall nerves and blood veffels coming through all the holes of the fkull. Later phyfiologifts, however, obferve in general, that the dura mater has few nerves, and only little fenfibility in the found flate *, but furgical phenomena ihew that it is not to- tally deftitute of fenfibility. The internal part of the dura mater, leaving the external part adhering firmly to the bones of the fkull, runs inwards to form the proceffes, which ferve to prevent the parts from preffing one another in all fituatmns and poftures of the bo- dy. Thefe procefks liktwife hinder one part of the brain from bruifing the other by any fhock or concuffion. Hence Vol. II. H itPart V?, THE BRAIN, it is, that in active quadrupeds, where a concufiion is more likely to happen, the brain and cerebellum are divided by a bony partition. With rcfpedt to the glands of Pacchioni placed near the falx, their ufe is not yet fufilciently known. The vapour, which exhales from the furface of the pia mater, is not fepa- rated by thefe glands, for it is every where exhaled, even in- to the ventricles, where there are no glands; but it plenti- fully tranfpires every where from the mouths of the leaf! ar- teries; as we fee by experience, when water or glue are in- jected, which fweat out through every point in the furface of the pia mater. The next covering of the brain is the araehnoides, which furrounds the whole furface of the brain, as the former does the internal cavity of the cranium. This very thin or tender member, being pellucid like water, every way furrounds the brain, whofe inequalities it climbs over; and although it be fo extremely thin, yet it is tolerably ftrong, and furrounds the larger veflels, fo as to make them feem to run between the pia mater and araehnoides. The third or innermoft covering of the brain, which :s foft and cellular, is properly tht pia mater. This immediate- ly invefts the whole furface of the brain and fpinal marrow- on all Tides, is tender, and confifts of a vaft number of fmall vefTels which are joined together by cellular matter, and con- veyed into the fubltance of the brain.- The veins of the brain are not dilpofed in the fame man- ner with thofe in other parts of the body. For they have no valves, nor do they run together in company with the ar- teries, nor have their trunks the ftruClure which is common- ly oblerved in the other veins. The veins from the different parts of the brain run into Cnufes already deferibed. The great quantity of blood which goes to the brain, the greater impulfe with which it is fern into the carotid arteries, theChap. r. $9 AND ITS APPENDAGES. the fecurity of this part from every kind of prefiure by a ftrong bony fence, tjie flower motion of the blood through the abdominal vil'cera and lower extremities, and the perpe- tual exercife of the brain and fenfes, all determine a copious flux of blood to thefe parts; fome other caufes alfo ferve to fill the head largely with blood. Hence it is that a rednefs of the face, a turgefcence, a l'parkling of the eyes, with a pain of the head, a pulfation or throbbing of the arteries, and a bleeding at the nofe, are produced by violent exerciies or motions of the body. Hence, therefore, it is evident, that if the veins were of a thin ftrudlure, and round fliape in the brain, they would unavoidably be in greater danger of rup- turing, (to which, even in their prefent ftate, they are of- ten liable), and confequently apoplexies would be much more frequent. To avoid this inconvenience, therefore, nature has given a different figure to the veins carrying the blood from the brain, by which they are more eafily and largely dilatable, becaufe they make an unequal refiftance: Their texture is likewife very firm, and more difficultly ruptured, efpe- cially in the larger finufes, which perform the office of trunks j but as to the finufes of the leffer fort, they are either round, half cylindrical, or of an irregular figure. Befides this, na-. ture has guarded the finufes by crofs beams, or fraena, inter- nally, made of ftrong membranes, and detached from the right to the left fide at the bottom of the finus^ which, in greater diftenfions, they draw towards a more acute angle, ftrengthening and guarding it from a rupture. She has like- wife furniflied thele veins with numerous inofculations, by which they communicate with one another, with the external veins of the head, and with thofe of the fpinal marrow; and by this contrivance, they are capable of evacuating themfelves more eafily whenever they are overcharged with blood. Some writers have doubted, Whether a part of the arte- rial blood is not poured into the finufes of the brain ; and whether6a Part VI. THE BRAIN, whether the finufes have not a pulfation excited from that! blood ? That they have no puliation, Dr Haller fays, is paft doubt ; becaufethe dura mater every where adheres firmly to the fkull, but much more firmly in thole parls which are the feats of the finufes. But Dr Monro oblcrves, that whilft the heart is performing its fyHole, the arteries here, as eife- where, may be dilating; and, in the meantime, a qu.’n'ity of blood, equal to that which is dilating them, is palling out of the head by the veins. See Obi. on the Nervous Syftein. Indeed the finufes receive liquors injected by the arteries ; but whether they tranfude through the fmall exhaling arte, rial vtflels, or whether they firft make a complete circle through the veins, as indeed is much more probable, we are not yet furnithed with experiments enough to determine. All the blood of the brain is finally conveyed into the jugular veins, which are very dilatable, and are for that realon guarded with valves to prevent a return of the venous blood from the right auricle, being at the lame time furrounded with much cellular lubltance. As to the blood which goes from the head to the vertebral veins, it is a very inconfide- rable quantity; but the jugulars anfwer in fuch a manner to the great upper vena cava, that they afford the beft and eafieft paffige ter the blood to return to the heart in a di- re£f courfe. The branches of thefe, t. e. jugular veins, are nearly the fame with the branches of the arteries, namely, one going to the brain, and another to the face. 1 be veins form innumerable anaftomofes with one another, that the blood may return with the greateft cafe from the head, the repletion of which is very dangerous. The brain is a Ho more eafily evacuated in the time of infpiration, for it then fubfides, as we fee when the fkull is opened, but fvvells i during the time of expiration. Hence, blowing the nofe, freezing, and coughing, are dangerous to thofe whofe brain is 1 welled by retained blood, IjV'hetherI Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES: %r Whether lymphatic veflels are to be feen in the brain, is queflioned by fome writers Dr Haller thought it probable that no lymphatic veflels are in the brain, becaufe no conglo- bate gla' ds are found there; and that the fuperfluous moifture is ablorbed by the red veins. But, according to mod of the prefent phyfiologilts, lymphatic veflels take up the fuper- fluous fluids of the brain, as well as of the other parts of the body, although they cannot be diftin&ly fhewn. f< Scarcely in any vifcus,” fays Dr Wrifberg, •** has the exiftence of lymphatic veflels been oftener aflerted, and again denied, than in the brain. Although, indeed, I am fully crrfain, that a group of lymphatic glands is nowhere found without lymphatic veflels, I could not, however, aflert that, where glands di not appear, lymphatic veflels are wanting. By analogy drawn from the whole body, and all the vifcera, I am led to think that the brain is not deflitute of its aque- ous veflels, and that they run in particular upon the furface, not in the middle of its fubflance, although I niyfelf have never feen any other than thofe going on the choroid plexus towards the tentorium, and on the inner furface of the dura mater, in the courle of the fuperior longitudinal finus. The induftrious and celebrated Sommering confirms the obferva- tions of King, Collins, and Pacchioni, wlio faw lymphatics upon the pia mater. I would afk, May they be joined with the glands of Pacchioni ? May thefe corpufcks fupply the place of lymphatic glands ?? It now remains for us to fpeak of the encephalon itfelf. Upon the furface of the brain lies the cortex, the fabric of which has been a long time controverted; but it is now fufliciently evident, from anatomical injections, that the greater part of it confifts of mere veflels, which are every way inferted from the fmall branches of the pia mater, de- tached like little roots into the cortical fubftarce Thefe yeflelSj in their natural ftate, convey a juice much thinnerI ' THE BRAIN, part Vf, than blood ; although, in fome difeafes, and by ftrangling, they often, efpecially in brutes and birds, receive even the red parts of the blood. The remaining part of the cortex, which is not filled by any injedlion, is probably cither an af- femblage of veins, or of yet more tender veffels •, for no dif- fimilar parts are apparent in the cortex, whilft it is in an en- tire or natural ftatei'and hence we are not permitted to con- clude that part of it is tubular, and part folid. As to glan- dules making the fabric of the brain, that notion has been difcarded by univerfal confent, as not being founded on the Zeaft probability. In order to gain a knowledge of the nature of the medulla, which lies under the cortex, we are to confider the anatomi- cal ftruclure of this part of the human brain, compared with the brains of brute animals and filh, This part of the brain, therefore, which lies immediately under the outer gyri or convolutions of the cortex, is of a white colour, and becomes gradually broader, and more abundant; fo that, at length, it makes up the whole oval feclion of the brain, except only the gyri in the circumference. The nerves of the brain, as well as of the fpinal marrow, divide into branches like the blood-veffels, but in acute an- gles, and often in a courfe manifeftly retrograde, they gene- rally, but not always, gradually become fofter, and lefs bulky, as they recede from the brain, till at length their ultimate extremities, which are feldom vifible, feem to terminate in a pulp, by depofiting the firm integuments with which they were covered, as we obferve in the optic nerve. The re&i- iineal courfe of the fibres, continued from the brain itfelf, is never broken off by the divifion or fplitting of a nerve in- to fmaller threads ; but the fibres themfelves recede from each other by an opening of the cellular fubftance that tied them together. This appears from the diforders which are determined not to all, but only to fome fingle parts of the . body*Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 6j body, by injuries of the brain ; as a lofs of the voice, deaf- nefs, dumbnefs, and palfies of particular mufcles. The nerves are connected in their courfe by the cellular fubftance to the adjacent parts, but have hardly any elafticity ; whence they do not fly back after being cut, but only expel, by the con- traction of their integuments, the foft medulla which they include. Though they be ever fo much irritated, they are neither contracted, nor rendered fliorter during the muf- ciriar motion which they produce. A great many nerves, fays Haller, are fent into the mufcles ; many of them go to the fkin ; fewer to the vifeera, and very few to the lungs. Wrifberg, however, obferves, that more nerves raanifeftly enter the organs of fenfe tfian the mufcles ; and that the lungs are fupplied with more nerves than the fpleen, uterus, and other vifeera. Haller alfo afferts, that no nerves go to the dura and pia pater, arachnoides, tendons, capfules, and ligaments. That thefe parts have few nerves is certain ; but that nerves can be traced into fome of them, efpecially into ligaments, cannot now be denied.—See Monro and Walter's Tables. They make frequent inofculations with each other; or one trunk gives off many branches, and from the con- junction of thefe branches, the nervous ganglia are princi- pally formed ; i. e. hard nervous tumours, for the moft part repleniflied with blood-veffels, and included in a firm mem- brane. Thefe Dr Monro confiders as fources of nervous matter and energy; for they are full of nervous fibrillae, in- termixed with a yellowilh or reddifh brown fubftance, fome- thing fimilar to the cortical fubftance of the brain.—Sec Qb- fervations on the Nervous Syftera. Thus much we are taught by anatomy concerning the brain and nerves ; it now remains that we explain the plxyfi- ological ufes of thefe parts. Every nerve that is irritated by any caufe produces a fharp fenfe of pain. To feel or per- ceive is to have the mind changed or affeCled by a change or ,, . affeCtion 1€4 the brain, Fart VI. affedlion of the body. It is the medullary part of the nerve which feels. If the nerve was endowed with any peculiar fenfe, that fenfe periffies when the nerve is compreffed or cut through; the fenfes of the whole body are loft by a cotn- preffion of the brain, and a preffure of the fpinal marrow deprives only thofe parts which are below it of fenfation. If a preffure be made on the brain where particular nerves arife, then only thofe fenfes depending on thefe nerves are loft. Thofe parts of the body that are furnilhed with nerves, are the only parts endued with fenfation, which is greater in proportion to the quantity of nerves fent to the parts, of which we have examples in the eye and the penis; thofe have lefs fenfibility which receive few nerves, as the vifeera ; and thofe which have feweft nerves, as the dura mater, ten- dons, ligaments, fecundines, bones, and cartilages, have little or no fenfation in the found ftate. It is therefore evident, that all fenfation arifes from the impreffion of an attive fubftance on fome nerve of the hu- man body ; and that the fame is then reprefented to the mind by means of that nerve’s* connection with the brain. It feems to be falfe, that the mind perceives immediately by means of the fenforia and branches of the nerves. For this opinion is refuted by the pains felt after amputation, by the ceffation of all pain when the nerve is compreffed, and by defeats or faults of the fenfes in confequence of difeafes of the brain. And that the effedt of the fenfes is preferved in the brain, is evident from the lofs of memory which follows an injury or compreffion of the brain ; and alfo from the de- lirium which happens in fome difeafes, and the ftupor and fleepinefs which happen in others. Another office of the nerves is to excite motions, even the moft violent, in the mufcles. When a nerve is irritated, eve- ry mufcle to which it goes is immediately convulfed ; or, if it fends branches to leveral niulcles, they are all convulfed at the 1Chap. E AND ITS APPENDAGES. 65 Vol. II. I follow the fame time. This happens both during the life of the animal, and a little after its death, while all the parts remain moift. By a great irritation other niukles, befides thole to which it fends branches, are thrown itito convuifions, and af- terwards the whole body. Nor is it neceffary that the nerve fhould be whole; for even when it is cut, an irritation of it will excite fimilar motions in the mufcles. On the other hand, when a nerve is comprtfTed or tied, a pally follows ; that is, the mufcles which have their nerves from it lie un- moved, when they are commanded by the will to ad; but they recover their motion when the comprefiion is removed, provided the nerve has received no hurt. But the medulla of the brain being vellicated, or irritated deeply in its crura, dreadful convuifions enfue throughout the whole body ; and this effect is univerfally produced, what part of the brain foever be irritated; whether it be the brain itfelf, the cerebellum, or the corpus callofum. The fame confequences alfo follow, if the ipinal marrow be irritated. But if the encephalon itfelf be comprefled in any part what- ever, there follows thence a lofs of lenfe and motion in that part of the body whofe nerves come from the affeded or comprtficd quarter of the brain. This fad is proved by ex- periments made in difeales of the brain, where the origin of particular nerves have been comprelfcd ■, thus the voice, the power of deglutition, the motion of an arm or a leg are loft, if the origin of the nerves, on which 'thefe faculties and mo- tions depend, be compreffed This is itill more evident in irritations or compreflions of the fpinal marrow, which produce rdpedivdy convuifions or palfies of thole parts that receive nerves from or below the place injured. If any large portion of the brain be compr-fled by rn extravafation of blood, by a colledion of water, by a feirrhus, or by an im- paded bone, or by any mechanical caule w hatever, then, in proportion to the violence of the cotrq reflion, there will66 THE BRAIN, Part VT. follow either a partial or a total lofs of the power of motion, thofe organs obedient to the will being affedted in confe- quence of a flighter compreffion ; but all the organs, if the preffure be great. The effedts above recited ceafe when the caufe is removed. It may be proper to add, that if the fpi- nal marrow be hurt in the neck, death immediately follows, probably becaufe the nerves of the heart chiefly arife from that part. From thefe confutations, we cannot doubt that the caufe of all motion in the human body arifes from the brain, and its annexed cerebellum and fpinal marrow; and that it thence proceeds through the nerves to all the mufcular parts of the body. Befides, the caufe of this motion cannot refide in the parts themfelves, becaufe otherwifc the moving caufe ivould continue to adt after being feparated from the brain ; • nor would it be increafed by irritating the brain, or weaken- ed by a comprefilire of it. Is there in the brain any principal part, in which the origin of all motion, and the end of all the fenfations refide, and where the foul has its feat? Is this opinion proved by the fre- quent obfervation, that the fenfes are fometimes entire, and that motion likevvife remains, though the. brain be materially in- jured ? Is the feat of the foul in the corpus callofum ? Is this opinion fliewn by the greater fatality of wounds or dif- eafes in the corpus callofum ! Is this body fufficiently con- nedted with the nerves ? Are there any experiments which prove that from thence the fifth, feventh, and other nerves arife ? Doth not the fame, or even greater mortality of wounds in the medulla fpinalis prove the fame thing ? Yet this is not the feat of the foul, fince though it is comprefled, or even deftroyed, the perfon will furvive a long time with the perfedt ufe of all his mental faculties. Lafily, this opi- nion is oppofed by numerous fadts : Birds have no corpus callofum, and wounds in that body are not more mortal thanChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 67 than thofe in other parts of the brain, as appears from un- doubted experiments. The prerogative of exciting vital motions, is not more peculiar to the cerebellum than to the other parts of the ence- phalon ; nor does it fufficiently appear, that the vital and animal functions are didinbc: For the cerebellum does not produce the' nerves of the heart and of the other vital or- gans, and the brain thofe which go to the organs of fenle and voluntary motion. From the cerebellum the fifth nerve is mod evidently produced ; but that goes to the tongue, pterygoid, buccinator, temporal and frontal mufcles, to the ear, the eye, the noftrils; parts which are either moved by the will, or deffined for fenfe. Again, the fame nerve, like the eighth, fends vital branches to the heart and lungs, ani- mal and voluntary ones to the larynx, and fenfitive ones to the llomach. Again, it is not even true that diforders of the cerebellum bring on fb certain and fpeedy death as is ge- nerally imagined for fome experiments, even of our own making, fhevv that it has born wounds and fcirrhi, without taking away life. Laftly, it is not much different from the brain, only that it is fofter and more tender; and we have often known wounds of the cerebellum cured. The power, however, of this part, in exciting convulfions, is fomewhat greater than that of the brain. We mud inquire experimentally concerning the feat of the foul. In the fird place it mud be in the head, and not in the fpinal marrow : For though this is obftruded, the con- ftancy of the mind remains the fame. Again, from the ex- periment of convulfions arifing, when the inmod parts of the brain are irritated, it appears to be feated, not in the cortex, but in the medulla ; and, by a probable conjecture, in the crura of the medulla, the corpora driata, thalami, pons, me- dulla oblongata, and cerebellum. And again, by another pot abfurd conjedture, it is perhaps feated at the origin of every63 THE BRAIN, Part VI. every nerve, as the fir ft origin of all the nerves taken toge- ther make up the cenforium commune. Act the ienlations of the mind reprefented there, or do the voluntary and ne- cefiary motions arile in that place? Thii kerns very proba- ble for it is fcavcely poflible, that the origin of motion can lie below that of the nerve, fince the nerve is fimilar through- out its whole length. The origin of mqtiou cannot be in the arteries, which have neither the faculty of jenfation nor that of voluntary motion. It therefore follows, that the feat of the foul muff be where the nerve tirft begins its formation or origin. We come now to explain the manner in which thq nerves become the organs of lenfe or motion, which, lying hid in the ultimate elementary fabric of the me- dullary fibres, feem to be placed above the reach both of fenfe and reafou. We fhatl neverthelefs endeavour to make this as plain as experiments will enable us. And rirft, it is demonflrated, that the lenlation does.not come through the membranes from the kntient organ to the brain, nor that motion is lent through the coverings from the brain into the mufcle; for the brain ltfcif lies deeper than thefe mem- branes, and receives the imprtfiions of lenfe, and, when hurt, throws the mufcles into convulfions. Moreover it is certain, that the nerves arife from the medulla of the brain *, for by ocular infpection we lee that to be the cafe in all the nerves of the brain, more efpecially in the olfadtory, optic, fourth, and feventh pair of nerves, which continue their medullary fabric a long way before they put on the covering of the pia inater. We muff therefore next inquire what this medulla is. It is a very foft fubftance ; its compofition is fibrous, as appears from innumerable arguments : Its fibres are vifible in the cor- pus callofum, in the firiatum, in the thalami of the optic nerves, and fpinal marrow ; and ftill more evidently in the brainsQhap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. brains of fifli, and efpecially in their thalami optici; but in no part of the human brain does the fibrous nature of the medul- la more evidently appear than in the fornix, efpecially when immerfed in fome of the acids. Again, that the fibres of the brain are continuous with thofe of the nerves, lo as to form one extended and open continuation, appears very evidently in the ieventh, fourth, and fifth pair of nerves. There is a great deal of oil in the medulla, upwards of a tenth part of its whole weight. But here a controverfy begins concerning the nature of thefe fibres, a congeries of which compol’es the fubftance of the medulla and of the nerves. That this is a mere iolid thread, and only watered by a vapour exhaling into the cellular fa- bric which lurrounds the nervous fibres, li3S been aflerted by many of rhe moderns ; but that, when it is ftruck by a fenlible body, a vibration is excited, which is then conveyed to the brain. But the phenomena of wounded nerves will not allow us to imagine the nervous fibres to be folid •, for, if irritation caules a nerve to fliake, (in a manner fomewhat fimilar to an elafiic cord, which trembles when it is taken hold of), the nerve ought to be made of hard fibres, and tied by their extremities to hard bodies : They ought alio to be tenfe ; for neither foft cords, nor fuch as are not tenfe, or fuch. as are not well fattened, are ever obferved to tremulate. But all the nerves at their origin, are medullary, and very foft, and exceedingly far from any kind of tenfion. Where they pafs through channels, and are well guarded, they retain the fame foft texture, and are not covered with membranes ; as the intercoftal nerves, and the fecond nerves of the fifth pair. Borne alfo are foft throughout their whole length, what- ever their fize be. For example, the foft olfaflory and acouftic nerves, from which latt we would moll readily ex- •peft a tremor produced ' “ ^ ’ A in, though the nerves arePart VL THE BRAIN, 7° are hard, they are foftened in the vifcera, mufcles, and fen- foria, before they exert their operations. The nervous fibres, being neither firmly fixed at each end, nor tenfe, can- not therefore tremulate like a tight ftretched cord. Another argument againft their tremulation is, that, through their whole length, the nerves are firmly attached to the folid parts by the cellular fabric. An example of this fadt is feen in thofe very material nerves, the nerves of the heart, which are tied to the great arteries and pericardium. Finally, that the nerves are deftitute of all elafticity, is demonftrated by experiments, in which the nerves cut acrofs neither Ihorten, nor draw back their divided ends to the folid parts; but are rather more elongated by their laxity, and expel their me- dulla in form of a protuberance. Again, the extreme foft- nefs of the medulla in the brain, with all the phenomena of pain and convulfion, leave no room to fufpedt any fort of tendon concerned in the effe&s or operations produced by the nerves. Add to this, that the force of an irritated nerve is never propagated upward, fo as to convulfe the mufcles that are feated above the place of irritation. This is a confequence altogether difagreeing with elafticity; for an elaftic cord pro- pagates its tremors every way, from the point of percuflion to both extremities. But, if neither phenomena or fenfe nor motion can be explained from the nature of elafticity, the only probable fuppofition that remains is, that there is a liquor fent from the brain, which, defending through the nerves, flows out at their extremities ;* the motion of which liquor, quickened by irritation, operates only according to the direction in which it flows through the nerve; fo that convulfions cannot thereby afeend upwards, becaufe of the refiftance made by the frefli afflux of the fluid from the brain. But the fame liquid being put in motion in an organ of fenfe, can carry that fenfation upwards to the brain; fince ‘ V ' ' itChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 71 it is refitted by no fenfitive torrent coining from the brain in a contrary direction. It is therefore probable, that the nervous fibres, and thofe of the medulla of the brain, which are of the fame nature, are hollow. The objections againft this doCtrine are fo few, and at the fame time fo frivolous, that they need not be men- tioned. If they are tubes, it is very probable that they have their humours from the arteries of the brain. There are many doubts concerning the nature of this ner- vous liquid. Several of the moderns will have it to be ex- tremely elaftiC, of an etherial or of an eledrical nature ; the ancients fuppofed it to be incompreflible and watery, but of a lymphatic or albuminous nature. Indeed, it is not to be denied that we have many arguments againft admitting either of thefe opinions. An ele&rical matter is doubtlefs very powerful, and fit for motion; but then it is not confineable within the nerves, fince it penetrates throughout the whole animal to which it is communicated, exerting its force upon the flefti and fat, as well as upon the nerves. In a living animal, the nerves only, or fuch parts as have nerves running through them, are affected by irritation ; and therefore this liquid mutt be of a nature that will make it flow through, and'be contained within, the narrow tubes of the nerves. And a ligature on the nerve takes away fenfe and motion, but cannot flop the motion of a torrent of ele&ricai mat- ter. A watery and albuminous matter is common to mod of the juices in the human body, and may therefore be readily granted to the juice of the nerves. The nervous fluid may probably be fimilar to the water exhaled into the ventricles of the brain ; and this opinion is ftrengthened by the flux of a gelatinous or lymphatic juice from the brain of fillies, and nerves of large animals, when cut. But, are thefe properties fufRcient to explain the wonderful force of convulfed nerves, obfervableTHE BRAIN, Fart VI. 72 obfervable in the diffic&ions of living animals, even of the fmalleft infedts ? or to account for the great ftrength of mad and hyfterical people ? Is not this difficulty fomewhat lef- fened from the hydroflalical experiments of attraction in fmall tubes ; which, although it may explain the ftrength and motion, is neverthelefs inconfiftent with the celerity ? The nervous liquor, then, which is the inftrument of fenfe and motion, mud be exceedingly moveable, in order to carry the impreffions of fenfe, or the commands of the will, to the places of their deftination, without any remarkable delay ; nor can it receive its motions only from the heart. Moreover, it is very thin and invifible, and deftitute of all tafte and fmell ; yet reparable from the aliments. It is careful- ly to be diftinguillied from that vifible, vifcid liquor, exhaling from the veffiels in the intervals between the nervous cords. That this liquor moves through tubes rather than through a fpongy folid, we are perfuaded, from its celerity, and from the analogy of all the fluids of the body, fat only excepted, running through their proper veffiels. ' On the whole, therefore, it certainly appears, that, by the ▼effiels of the cortexj fome kind of fluid is inftilled into the tubes of the medulla; which fluid is continued through the extremely fmall tubes of the nerves to their extremities, and is the caufe both of fenfe and motion. But there will be a twofold motion in that humour; the one flow and conftant, from the heart ; the other not continual, but exceedingly fwift, which is excited either by fenfe, or any other caufe of motion arifing in the brain. The fame nerves moll evidently preflde over both fenfe and motion ; as we cannot admit a diftindtion between the two fyftems of motory and fenfitive nerves. If fenfe fomc- times remain after motion is deftroyed, this feems to be be- caufe much more flrength is required for the latter. Dying people hear and fee when they are incapable of motion. IfChap. I. 73 AND ITS APPENDAGES. If it be alked, What becomes of this nervous juice, which , * cannot but be feparated in great-abundance, from fo large a quantity of blood palling through the brain very fwiftly, iince we fee very large fecrerions in parts remote from the heart, and through which the blood circulates more flowly, as in the fmall renal and mefenteric arteries ? We anfwer, that it probably exhales through the cutaneous nerves, ihe lalli- tude, both with refpect to fenfe and motion, which may be overcome by fpiritous medicines, fhews that this liquid may be both loft and repaired. Many anatomifts have thought that it alfo exhales into the various cavities of the body, as that of the llomach and inteftines. We may expect fome part of it to be reforbed, that the nobleft humour of the bo- dy may not be too quickly diffipated. That it nourilhes the body is incredible ; for it is too moveable to adhere; and, be- fides, this property of adhering belongs only to flow moving and vilcid humours. What is the defign of fo many protuberances in the brain ? What are the particular ufes of the ventricles, nates, and tef- tes; the diftindtion of the brain from the cerebellum; and the communication betwixt one fide of the brain, cerebel- lum, and fpinal medulla, with their oppofite fides, by fo many tranfverfe bundles of fibres ? Future experience alone can de- termine thefe circumftances, when the brains of feveral ani- mals fhall have been compared with their functions. The ventricles leem to be ulelul in preferving a neceflary diftindtion of the parts, and in leparating them from each o- ther. 1 hat the corpora ftriata or thalami might keep their medullary parts from cohering one to another, it was necefi* fary for a vapour to be poured between them j and the fame is true with regard to the parts of the brain and cerebel- lum. Befides the conjedtures propofed by authors. Dr Mon- ro adds, That the ventricles ferve to increafe the furface of Vol. II. K the74 Part VI. THE BRAIN, the pia mater; and that, whatever purpofes are ferved by that membrane, and its veffels, on the furface of the brain, we muft fuppofe the fame performed by it within the ven- tricles. Perhaps, likewife, the neceffity of adminiltering a degree of warmth to the clofe medulla of the brain may be one of the ules of thefe cavities ; efpecially as the arteries, by their means, are diitributed in greater numbers. Perhaps, alfo, it was proper, that, in the inmoit part of the brain, fmall veffels only, without any large ones, fhould enter. We may likevvife fufpedt, that the ioftnefs of the fibres of the brain requires fhortnefs in order to iutiain their own weight. The ufes of moll of the protuberances are as yet unknown, and m'uit be learned from anatomical experiments made on animals the likeft to man. Experiments on parts fo fmall, and io deeply ieated as to be inacccffible in living animals, feem to afford little hopes of fuccefs. Are thefe parts the diftinft provinces which our different ideas inhabit ? Do the thalami ieem to be an inftance of this fuppofition ? In con- lidering this fubjecf, it will be neceffary to remember that inofi: of thefe protuberances lend out no nerves at all. The ftriae or internal du&s feem to afford fome kind of communication between the motions, and perhaps between the fenfes. Some of thefe dudls join the brain with the'ce- rebellum j others join the fpinal marrow with the nerves of the brain itfelf, as the acceffory nerve; and mod of them join the right and left parts together, as the anterior and the two pofterior commiffures of the corpus callofum, and the flriae between the proceffes of the cerebellum and teftes; to which add the medullary crofs-bars in the medulla oblongata and fpinaiis. This ftru&ure explains, in a very fatisfa&ory manner, the obfervation, that, when the right fide of the brain is injured, all the nerves which, on the contrary, be- long to the left fide, of the body, become difeafed or paraly- tic, and the reverfe. Moreover, by this contrivance, nature feems75 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. feems to have provided, that, in whatever part of the brain any injury may happen, the nerve thence arifing is not always deprived of its ule. For, if the nerve receives its fibres by communicating bundles, as well from the oppofite as from its own hemifphere of the brain, its office may in fome mea- fure be continued entire by the fibres which it receives from the oppofite fide, even after thofe of its own fide are dellroy- ed. Accordingly, we have numerous inftances of wounds, and with a confiderable lofs of fubftance from the brain, which have not been followed with injury to any nerve, or to any of the mental faculties. Many other lefs inequalities, ftripes, protuberances* and nerve like impreffions, appear in the brain from mechanical neqeffity, the pulfation of the vef- fels, and the prefiure or figure of the continuous incumbent parts, . ' • \ • Sect. II. The Eye. , ' ' \ § r. The Eye in General. Situation and compofition. The eyes are commonly two in number, fituated at the lower part of the forehead, one at each fide of the root of the nofe ; arid they confilt of hard and (oft parts. The hard parts are the bones of the cranium and face, which form two pyramidal or conical cavities, like funnels, to which we give the name of orbits. The foft parts are of feveral kinds. The principal and moft eflential foft part in each organ is the globe or'ball of the eye ; the others are partly exter- nal and partly internal. The external parts are the fuperci- lia or eye-brows, the palpebrae or eye-lids, the caruncula lachrvmalis, and the puncta lachrymalia; and the internal parts » .THE EYE, Part VL' 75 parts are the mufdes, fat, lachrymal gland, nerves, and blood- veflels. Tie orbits. Seven bones are concerned In the compofition of each orbit, viz. the os frontis, os fphenoidale, os etlvmoi- des, os maxillare, os rmdae, os unguis, and os- palati. In each orbit we are to confider the edge, fides, and bottom. The edge is formed by the os frontis, os maxillare, and os maiae ; the bottom by the os fphenoides and os palati ; and all thefe bones, except the os palati, contribute to form the fides. The bottom is perforated by the foramen opticum of the os fphenoides j and the external fide neap this foramen by two orbitary fi fibres ; one fuperior, called fphenoidalis, the ether inferior, calltd fphevc-maxillaris, already mentioned in the defeription of the ficeleton. All the cavity of the orbit is lined by a membrane, which 5s an elongation or production of the dura mater ; and it comes partly through tjie foramen opticum of the os fphe. xtoides, *»nd partly through the fphenoidal or fuperior orbi- •iary fiflure. This membrane, which may be looked upon as the periofteum of the orbit, communicates with the peri- ofteum of the bafiscranii, by the inferior orbitary fifiure, and with the periofteum of the face at the edge of the orbit. At the upper part of the edge of the orbits, the two perioftea form a kind of broad ligament, and a narrow one at the lower part of this edge, which may be called ligaments of the palpebrae. The particular fituation of the orbits reprefents nearly two funnels, placed laterally at a fmall difiance from each other, 5n fuch a manner as that their apices are alrnofl: joined, their neareft fides being almoft parallel, and the other fides turned obliquely backward; and, for this reafon, the middle of the great circumference, or edge of each orbit, is at a much greater diftance from the feptuin narium than the bottom or apex j and the edge or great circumference is very oblique, theChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 77 The the temporal or external angle of the orbit lying more back- ward than the nafal or internal angle. § 1. The Globe or Ball of the Eye. Compoftion. The globe of the eye, being the moll: effential of all the foft parts belonging to the organ of fight, and being likewife a part which we are obliged to mention as of- ten as we fpeak of the other foft parts, mud be firft defcri- bed. It confifts of feveral proper parts ; fome of which, being more or lefs folid, reprefent a kind of fhell formed by the union of feveral membranous ftrata, called the coats of the globe of the eye ; and the other parts being more or lels fluid, and contained in particular membranous capfulae, or in the interfiices between the coats, are termed the humours of the globe of the eye. Thefe capfules are likewife termed coats. The coats of the globe of the eye are of three kinds. Some of them form chiefly the {hell of the globe; others are ad- ditional, bemg fixed only to a part of the globe; and others are capfular, which contain the humours. The coats which form the globe of the eye are, the fclerctica or cornea, the choroides, and the retina. The additional coats are two ; one called tendinofa or albuginea, which forms the white of the eye; and the other, tcnjunBiva. The capfular tunicae are likewife two, the vitrea and the crvftallina. The globe of the eye, thus formed, receives from behind a large pedicle, which is the continuation of the optic nerve. It is fituated about the middle of the orbit, in the manner which we fiiall afterwards fee ; and is tied to it by the optic nerve, by fix mufcles, by the tunica conjundliva, and by the palpebrae. The back part of the globe, the optic nerve, and mufcles, are furrounded by a foft fatty fubftance, which fills the reft of the bottom of the orbit.THE EYE, ,8 Tart VI. The humours are three; the aqueous, vitreous, and crys- talline. 1 he firft may properly enough be called an humour, and is contained in a Space formed in the interftices of the anterior portion of the coats. The fecond or vitreous hu- mour is contained in a particular membranous capfula, and fills above three-fourths of the (hell or cavity of the globe of the eye. It has been named vitreous, from its fuppoled re- femblance to melted grafs; but it is really more like the white of a new-laid egg. The cryftaUine humour-is fo called from its refemblance to cryftal, and is often named {imply the cryfatline. It is ra- ther, a gummy mafs than an humour, of a lenticular form, more convex on the back than on the forefide, and contained in a fine membrane called membrana or capfula cryjlallina. What has been here faid is fufficient to give a general idea of the three humours of the globe of the eye. \ ' ■. ‘ * # * § 3. The Coats of the Eye in particular. The mofl: external, the thickcft, and ftrongeft' coat of the eye, is the Sclerotica or cornea, and it inverts all the other parts of which the globe is compofed. It is divided into two portions, one called cornea opaca, or fclerotica, the other cornea lucida, which is only a Small legment of the Sphere Situated anteriorly. The fclerotica is of a white colour, and confifts of many fibres clofely conne&ed ; and is of a firm texture, refembling. parchment. About the middle of its pofterior convex por- tion, where it fuftains the optic nerve, it is perforated, and thicker than any where elfe ; its thicknefs diminishing gra- dually toward the oppofite fide ; and its fubftance is pene- trated obliquely in Several places by Small blood-vefiels and nerves. The courfe of the nervous filaments through this coat is very Angular 5 they enter the convex fide at Some diftance79 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. diflance from the optic nerve ; and running thence obliquely through its fubflance, they pierce the concave fide near the cornea lucida. The cornea lucida, called alio (imply the cornea, confifts of feveral lfrata or laminae clolely united by cellular iubftance, and of a different texture from the former ; befides, it receives no blood-velfels in the natural ftate. When macerated in cold water it Iwells, and then its ftrata may be feparated from each other. If it be. macerated till it begin to become putrid, and is then plunged into boiling water, it readily leparates from the fclerotic, being joined only by cellular fublfance. (See Traire Complet. d’Anatomiej. It is hkewile thicker than the fclerotic, elpecially in new.born children, where its pofterior furface almoll touches the iris. This portion is foinething more convex than the fclerotica, fo that it reprefents the fegment of a fmall fphere added to the fegment of a greater; but this difference is not equally great in all perfons. The circumference of the convex fide * is not circular as that of the concave fide, but tranfverfely oval: For the fuperior and inferior portions of the circum- ference terminate obliquely ; but this obliquity is more appa- rent in oxen and (heep than in man. The cornea is perforated by a great number of impercep- tible pores, through which a-very fihe fluid is continually dif. changed, which foon afterwards evaporates; but we difco- ver it evidently by prcffing the eye foon after death, having firft wiped it very clean ; for we then fee a gradual collec- tion of a very fubtle liquor, which forms itfelf into.little drops ; and this experiment may be feveral times repeated on the fame fubjeff. It is this dew that forms a kind of pellicle on the eyes of dying perfons, which fometimes cracks foon after, as is obferved in the Memoires of the Academy for 1721. 1 !Tunica*o THE EYE, Part VI. Tunica choroides. The next coat of the globe of the eye is the choroides, which is of a blackifh colour, more or lei's inclined to red, and adheres, by means of a great number of fmall veffels to the fclerotica, from the infertion of the optic nerve all the way to the cornea, where it leaves the cir- cumference of the globe, and turns inward, to form a num- ber of little proceffes termed ciliary, which are fituated at the edge of the cryftalline lens. The external lamina of the choroides is ftronger than the internal, and is of a brownilh colour. At a very fmall dis- tance from the cornea this lamina is mod clofely united to the fclerotica, by means of a whitiCh ring called ciliary liga- ment or ciliary circle; and near the edge of the fclerotica this ring is ftronger, and of a different texture from what it is any where elfe. The choroides adheres fo clofely to the fclerotica, that if we blow through a fmall hole made in it, without touching the ohoroides, the air will penetrate every where between the two coats, but cannot deftroy this adhe- fion, or pafs to the cornea. On the inner lurface of this lamina we difeover a great number of flat lines in a vortical difpofition, which are the veffels named by Steno vafa vorti- cefa, or vortices vafculofi ; of which hereafter. The internal lamina of the choroides is thinner, and of a darker colour than the external; it is formed of a black varnifli, which is.thicker before than behind, and is wanting at the entrance of the optic nerve. At the fore-part of the eye it lies only between the ciliary proceffes, leaving them white, and adheres to the vitreous humour, forming there a radiated ring. The origin of this fubftance has not as yet been obferved •, but, after a nice ahatomical injection. Win- flow ha,s obferved a great number of valcular ftars on its in- ner furface. In Ruyfch’s works it is termed Membrana Rttyf- chiana. AtChap. r. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 8i Vol. II. L The At the anterior edge of the choroides we find the iris com- pofed of two laminae ; the poflerior of which, being of the colour of a grape, was called uvea by the antients. In the middle of the iris there is a hole termed pupil: This, in a foetus, is covered with a membrane called pupillaris, which generally difappears about the feventh month ; or between the feventh and ninth month, according to Wrifberg. Be- tween the two laminae of the iris, we find two very thin planes of fibres, which have been fiippofed to be muicular; but this matter is not yet fujly afcertained. The fibres of one plane are orbicular, and lie round the circumference of the pupil; and thofe of the other are radiated, one extre- mity of which is fixed to the orbicular plane, the other to the great edge of the iris. The iris has motions of fuch a nature, that the pupil is contrafled at the approach of a ffrong light, and is dilated/upon being expofed to a weak one. The different colours which appear in the iris, feem to be owing to an intermixture of veflels and nerves. That the iris poflefles red veflels is evident from injection, and from obfervations on the eye during life. [See Monro on the Struc- ture and Phyfiology of Fiflies). The plicae or procefius ciliares are fmall radiated and pro- minent duplicatures of the anterjor edge of the choroid coat; and their circumference anfwers partly to that of the ciliary circle. They are oblong thin plates ; their external extre- mities, or thofe next the choroides, being very fine and poin- ted ; the internal are broad, prominent, bifurcated, and alter- nately long and fhort, making flight depreflions on the fore part of the vitreous humour. In the duplicature of each ciliary fold we find a fine reticular texture of veflels; and fome anatomifls pretend to have feen flefliy fibres in the fame plate, lying in fmall grooves of the membrana vitrea, as we fhall fee hereafter. 1 ■Part VI, Si THE EYE, „ • / \ n The fpaee between the cornea and iris contains the great- eft part of the aqueous humour, and communicates by the pupilla with a very narrow fpaee behind the iris, or between that and the cryftalhne. Thefe two (paces have been term- ed '4he two chalmers of the aqueous humour. one anterior, the other pofterior, as we fliall oblerve in deferibing this humour In particular. Retina. The laft coat proper to the eve is of a very dif- ferent texture from that of'the other two coats. It is white, foft, and tender, and, in a manner, medullary, or like a kind of pafte fpread upon a fine reticular web; it lines the bot- tom of the eye, ant! is a continuation of the optic nerve. Some authors, as Zinu, affirm, that it terminates, at the cili- ary circle ; others, as D' Haller, reorelent the whole or a .part of it as extended to the iens, and even as giving a co- vering to that humour; but Ur monro observes, that it ends fome way behind the ciliary circle (See Oufiervations on the Nervous Syftem.) At the pHce which anlwers to the infer- tion of the optic nerve, *e oblerve a (mall deprtilion, in which lies a fort ot medullary button, terminating in a point; and from this depreffion blood vtfTels go out, which are ra- mified on all fides through the fubftance of the retina. It is commonly faid, that the retina is a production or ex- panfion of the medullary lubftance of the optic nerve, the fclerotica of the dura mater, and the choroides of the pia mater, which accompany this nerve; but this opinion is not altogether sgreeabie to what we obferve in examining the optic nerve, and its intertioq in the globe of the eye. If we take a very ffiarp inftrument, and divide this nerve through its whole length, between where it enters the orbit and where It enters the globe, into two equal lateral parts, and then con- tinue this feftion through the middle or center of its infec- tion. the following phenomena will appear; ' • ThstfChap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 83 That the nerve contr. 61s a little at its u.fert'on into the globe ; that its outer covering is a true continuation of the dura mater; that 1 his vagina is very different from the fcler rorica, both in thicknels and tcxuire, the fclerotica being thicker than the vagina, and of another ltru6ture ; that the vagina from the pia mater forms, through the whole ire dul- lary lubftance of the nerve, feveral veiy fine cellular lepra; and that, where it enters the globe of the eye, the pia mater dees not directly anlwer to the choroides, and is divided into many fmall threads, which go through the bottom of the eye to form the retina- The infertion of the optic nerve in the globe of the eye is not dire£lly oppolite to the pupilla ; fo that the diifance be- tween thefe two parts is not the lame when inealured on all the parts of the globe. The greateft diftance is on the fide next the temples, and the fmallefi next the nofe. Window obierves an inequality of the fame kind in the breadth of the uvea, which, in many fubje6fs, is lefs near the nole than near the temples ; l'o that the center of the pupilla is not the fame with that of the great circumference of the iris ; and he has feen the fame difference in the breadth of the corona ciliaris* § 4. The Humours of the Eye, and their Capfulae. The vitreous humour. The vitreous humour is a clear and Very liquid gelatinous fluid, contained in a fine tranfparent capfula, called tuni.a viUea, together with which it forms a ftiafs nearly of tire confidence of the white of an egg. It filis the greatel! pa*t of the globe of the eye, that is, almoft all that Ipace winch anf«ers to the extent of the retina, ex- cept a fmall portion behind the uvea, where it forms a foflu- la, in which the cryftalline lens is lodged. This humour being dexteroufly taken out of the globe, preferves its con- lift e.nceTHE EYE, Part Vl. S4 fiftence for iome time in the capfula, and then runs off by little and little, till it quite difappears. The tunica vitrea is defcribed by Winflow as being com- pofed of two laminae very clofely united, which quite fur- round the mafs of humour ; but later authors, as Sabatier, &c. find only one, which, after covering the vitreous hu- mour, runs to the edge of the lens, and whether It goes far- ther is uncertain. The anterior part of this membrane, which extends between the vitreous humour and edge of the lens, is covered with black ftreaks from the'pigmentuin ni- grum, and by different authors has been called membranula coronae ciliaris ; by Zinn, -zonula ci/iaris. When a putufture is made through this, and air is blown in, it forms a paffage which runs round the lens ; and has been termed Canalis Pe- titianus, after the difcoverer Petit, who defcribes it in the Me- moirs of the Royal Academy, 1728. The internal furface of the tunica vitrea gives off', through the whole fubflance of this humour, a great number of cel. lular elongations or fepta difcovered by Riolin, fo extreme- ly fine, as to be invifible in the natural ftate, the whole mafs appearing then to be uniform, and equally tranfparent, through its whole fubflance ; but they are difcovered by put- ting the whole humour, foon after it is taken out of the bo- dy, into fome acefcent and gently coagulating liquor. Thefe cells muff communicate with each other ; for, by puncturing the membrane, and hanging up the eye for a lhort time, a confiderable part of the humour runs out, fo that the eye becomes lighter. The radiated fulci of the tunica vitrea, which may be termed fhlci ciliares, are perfectly black when the coat is ta- ken out of the body. This proceeds from the black fub- ilance with which the laminae or procefi'us ciliares, as well as all the refl of the choroides, are naturally covered, and which remains in the bottom of the fulci after the laminae have beenChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 8f been taken out. We obferve very fine vefiels in this hu- mour, which fhall be defcribed afterwards. The cryftalline humour. The cryftalline is a fmall len- ticular body, of a firm confidence, and tranfparent like cryfial. It is contained in a tranfparent membranous capfula, and lodged in the anterior foflula of the vitreous humour, as has been already faid. It is very improperly called an hu- mour, becaufe it may be handled and moulded into different fhapes by the fingers, and fometimes almoft diffolved by dif- ferent reiterated compreffions, efpecially when taken out of the capfula. The figure of the cryftalline is lenticular; but its pofte- rior fide is more convex than the anterior, the convexity of both fides being very rarely equal. Steno obferved, that the lens was compofed of concentric lamellae; and this has been confirmed by later authors : And Zinn has difcovered radia- ted ftreaks of a pearl colour, dividing the lens into little tri- angles.—See Zinn de Oculi, tab. vii. fig. vii. The colour and confidence of the cryftalline varies in dif- ferent ages, as was difcovered by M. Petit the phyfician. (See Memoirs for 1726). Till the age of 30 it is very tran- fparent, and almoft without any colour. It afterwards be- comes yellcwifti, and that yellowilhnefs gradually incrcafes. The confidence varies almoft in the fame manner, being of an uniform foftnefs till the age of 20, and afterwards grow- ing gradually more folid in the middle of the mafs ; but in this there are varieties, explained in the Memoirs for 1727. Haller takes notice of a watery liquor fituated betwixt the cryftalline lamellae, which in old age turns, of its own ac- cord, to a yellow colour ; and Steno and Morgagni deferibe a little water effufed betwixt the lens and its capfule. The cryftalline capfula or coat is formed by a duplicator^ of the tunica vitrea, or of a proper capfula to which the tu- nica vitrea is connected. The anterior portion of the cryftal- linePart VL 8(5 THE EYE, line capfula is thicker than the pofterior, and in a manner elaftic; and both its thicknefs and elalticity may be difcover- ed in difll'ffion, without any other artifice. The anterior portion fwells when macerated in water, and then appears to be made up of two pelliculae, united by a fine fpongy fublfance. “ I demonftrated this duplicature (fays Window) very plainly in the eye of an horfe by the knife alone ; and I even carried the reparation of the two laminae as far as the vitreous coat. Having made a fmall hole in the middle of the capfula of an ox's eye, and blown into it through a pipe, fome part of the air remained be- tween the edge of the cryftalline mafs and that of the cap- fula, in form of a tranfparent circle.” The aqueous humour is a very limpid fluid, refembling a kind of lympha or ferum, with a very fmall degree of viici- dity ; but, in the foetus and a fhort time after birih, it is of a reddifh colour '’See Petit, Memoirs for 1727). It ap- pears to come from the arteries of the iris. Window and others were of opinion, that it has no particular capfula like the cryftalline and vitreous humour ; but, from obfervations lately made in a memoir prefented to the Royal Academy of Sciences in 1 760, it appears that the inner fide of the cornea and anterior furface of the iris are covered with an exceed- ingly fine membrane, fuppofed to come from the choroid : Whether it goes into the pofterior chamber is doubtful The aqueous humour fills the fpace between the cornea and iris, that between the iris and the cryftalline, and the hole of the pupilla Thefe two fpaces are called the chambers of the aqueous humour, and they are diftinguilhed into the anterior and pofterior. The two chambers are not of the fame extent. The an- terior, which is vifible between the cornea and iris, is the largeft ; the other between the iris and crvfblline is very narrow, efpecially near the pupilla, where the iris almoft touchesAND ITS APPENDAGES. *7 Chap. T. touches the cryftalline. This proportion between the two chambers has been (ufficiently proved, contrary to the opi- nion of many ancient writers, by M. Iieilfer, Morgagni, and feveral members of the Royal Academy ; bur none has treat- ed thefe matters at lo great iengih as M. Petit the phylician, as appears by the printed memoirs of that Society. § 5. The Tunica Albuginea, and Mufdes of the Globe of the Eye. _ The tunica albuginea, called commonly the ‘white of the eye, and which appears on all the anterior convex fide of the globe, from the cornea to the beginning of the poflerior fide, is formed chiefly by the tendinous expanfion of the four redi mufdes. This expanfion adheres very clofe to the fcle- rotiea, and makes it appear very white and fhining; whereas the reft: of it is of a dull whitifh colour. It is very thin near the edge of the cornea; in which it I'eems to be loft, termi- nating very uniformly. There are commonly fix mufcles inferted in the globe of the human eye ; and they are divided, on account of their diredion, into four redi and two obliqui. The redi are again divided, from their fituation, into fuperior, inferior, internal, and external ; and, from their fundions, into a le- vator, depreflor, addudor, and abdudor. The two oblique mufcles are denominated from their fituation and fize, one being named obliquus fuperior or major, the other obliquus infe- rior or minor. The obliquus major is likevvife called troch• learis, becaufe it paftes through a finall cartilaginous ring, as over a trochlea or pulley. The mufeuli redi do not altogether anfvver to that 'name; for, in their natural fituation, they do not at all lie in a ftraight diredion, as they are commonly reprefented in an eye taken out of the body. To underftand this, we ought to have aS3 Part Vf. THE EYE, the juft idea of the fituation of the globe in the orbit, and at the fame time to remember the obliquity of the orbits, as already explained. The globe is naturally placed in fuch a man- ner, as that, during the inaftion or equilibrium of all the mufcles, the pupilla is turned direftly forward; the inner edge of the orbit is oppofite to the middle of the infide of the globe ; the outer edge of the orbit, becaufe of its obli- quity, is behind the middle of the outfide of the globe ; and laftly, the great circumference of the convexity of the globe, between the pupilla.and the optic nerve, runs direflly inwards and outwards, upwards and downwards. In this fituation, the adductor alone is in a ftraight direc- tion, the other three being oblique ; and the abcludtor is the longeft, the adduftor the fhorteft, and the levator and depref- for of the fame middle length between the two former. The abduflor is likewife bent round the outer convex fide of the globe j the levator and dep:eflor are alfo incurvated, but in a lefs degree ; whereas the adduftor is almoft ftraight. The fuperior oblique are fituated fo as to ferve as antagonifts to the former. (See Defcription of the Mufcles, vol. I.) TJfes of thefe mufcles. The levator moves the anterior por- tion of the globe upward, when we lift up the eyes; the de- preflor carries this portion downwards; the adductor towards the nofe, and the abductor towards the temples. "When two neighbouring recti aft at the fame time, they carry the anterior portion of the globe obliquely towards that fide which anfwers to the diftance between thefe two mufcles : And when all the four mufcles act fuccefiively, they turn the globe of the eye round, which is what is called rol- ling the eyes. It is to be obferved, that all thefe motions of the globe of the eye are made round its centre, fo that in moving the an- terior portion, all the other parts are likewife in motion. Thus, when the pupilla is turned toward the nofe or upward,Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 89 the infertion of the optic nerve is at the fame time turned toward the temple, or downward. The ule of the oblique mufcles is chiefly to counterbalance the action of the redi, and to fupport the globe in all the motions already mentioned. This is evident Irom their infer- tions, which are 111 a con rary direction to thole of the redi, their fixed points with relation to the motions of the globe being placed forward, and thole of the redi backward, at the bottom of the orbit. The foft fat which lies behind the globe is altogether inlufikient to fupport it: Neither is the optic nerve more fit for this purpole ; for 1 have fhewn that this nerve follows all the motions of the globe, \Hiich would be impofiiblfe, were not the fat very pliable, ahd without re- fiftance. And to this we muff add, that the optic nerve, at its inlertiqn in the globe, has a particular curvature, which al- lows it to be elongated, and coniequently prevents it from ffif- fering any violence in the different motions of the eyes. The obliquity of thele two muffles does not hinder them from doing the office of a fulcrum ; becaule this is not a ful- crum diifind from the part moved, or on which the globe of the eye Aides like the head of one bone in the articular cavity of another $ but, being fixed to the part, it eafily ac- commodates ltleif to all the degrees of motion thereof. Had theff mufcles lain in a ltraight diredion, they would have in- commoded the redi ; but their obliquity may be faid to be in fome mealure rectified by the inner furface of the orbit, and • the abdudor. The luner furface of the orbit ferves for a kind of colla- teral fulcrum, which hinders the globe from falling too far inward ; as the joint adion of the two obliqui prevents it, in part, from falling too far outward. The abdudor, by being bent on the globe, not only hinders it from being carried outward, but alfo prevents the indired motions of the obli- qui from thrufting it out of the orbit toward the temples. Vol. II. M TheTHE EYE, Part VI. The ihe other ufes attributed to thefe mufcles feem to be with- out foundation, from the confideration of their infertions, and of the ftrudture of the parts with which, they are con- cerned ; both which reafons are explained in the Memoirs of the Academy for 1721. § 6. 2 he Super cilia, and Mufculi Frontalest Occipitaleiy and Superciliares. Supercilia. The fupercilia, or eye-brows, peculiar to the human fpecies, are the two hairy arches fituated at the lower part of the forehead, between the top of the nofe and tem- ples, in the fame dire&ion with the bony arches which form the fuperior edges of the orbits. The fkin in which they are fixed does not feem to be much thicker than that of the X \ reft of the forehead ; but the membrana adipofa is thicker than on the neighbouring parts. The colour of the eye- brows is different in different perfons, and often, in the fame perfon, different from that of the hair on the head ; neither is the lize of them always alike. The hairs of which they confift are ltrong and rather ftiff, and they lie obliquely, their roots being turned to the nofe, and their points to the tem- ples. The fupercilia have motions common to them with thofe of the fkin of the forehead, and of the hairy fealp. By thefe motions the eye-brows are lifted up ; the fkin of the fore- head is wrinkled more or lefs regularly and tranfverfely ; and the hair and almoft the whole fealp is moved, but not in the fame degree in all perfons; for fome people by this mo- tion alone can move their hat, and even throw it off their head. The eve-brows have likewife particular motions which contract the fkin above the nofe; and all thefe different mo- tions are performed by the occipital, frontal, and fuperciliary mufcles. (See Vol. I.)Chap. r. AND ITS APPENDAGES. The occipital and frontal mufcles appear to be true digaP- trici, both in regard to their infertions and action. The fix- ed infertions of the occipitales at the lower part of the occi- put, and the moveable infertions of the frontales in the Ikin of the forehead and of the fupercilia, being well confidered, together with their reciprocal infertions in the fame aponeu- rofis, feem to be very convincing proofs that they are digaflric mufcles. Thefe four mufcles feem always to a£l in concert, the oc- cipitales being only auxiliaries or affiftants to the frontales, the office of which is to raile the fupercilia by wrinkling the Ikin of the forehead ; thele wrinkles following the direction of the eye-brows regularly in fome fubjefls, and very irregu- larly in others. To be convinced of the co-operation of thefe four mufcles, we need only hold the hand on the occipitales, while we raife the eye-brows and wrinkle the forehead feveral times, and we ffiall perceive the occipitales to move each time, though not in the fame degree in all fubjedts. In fome perfons the occipitales feem to be relaxed, while the frontales being in contradlion move the whole fcalp and pericranium forward, and then contradt to bring them back to their natural fitu- ation. The adlion of the mufculi fuperciliares is to deprefs the eye-brows, to bring them clofe together, and to contradt the Ikin of the forehead immediately above the nofe into longi- tudinal and oblique wrinkles, and the Ikin which covers the root of the nofe into irregular tranfverfe wrinkles. This aflicn, as well as that of the frontales, and of the mufcles of the nofe and lips, is not always arbitrary, but fometimes me- chanical and involuntary. Thefe mufcles may perhaps like- wife ferve to keep the mufculi frontales in equilibrio during their inadhon, they being moveable by both extremities.Part VI. THE EYE, 91 § 7* Palpebrae and Membrana ConjunEliya. t Palpebrae. The palpebrae are a kind of veils or curtains placed tranfverfely above and below the anterior portion of the globe of the eye, and accordingly theie are two eye-lids to each eye, the one fuperior and the other interior. The fuperior is the largeft arid molt moveable in man. They both unite at each fide of the globe, and the places of their union are termed angles, one large and internal, which is next the nofe, the other fmail or extern.il, which is next the temples. Stn/dure of the palpebrae lhe palpebrae are made up of common and proper parts. ihe common parts are the ikin, epidermis, and membrana adipofa lhe proper parts are the jnufcles, the tarfi, the puncta or foramina lacrymalis, the membrana conjunctiva, the giandula lacrymalis, and the particular ligaments which iuttain the tarfi. The tarfi and their ligaments are in tome meulure the bafis of all thefe parts. Tarft. The tarfi are thin cartilages, forming the principal part of the edge ot eich pal pc bra, and tlaey are broader at the middle than at the extrcmi.ies. 'l'hote of the fuperior palpebrae are a little more than a quarter of an inch in breadth ; but in the lower paipemrae they are not above the fixth part of an inch, and their extremities next the temples are more {lender than thofe next the note. Thefe cartilages arc tuited to the borders and curvature of the eye-lids. The lower edge of the fuperior cartilage, and the upper edge of the inferior, terminate equally, and both may be termed the ciliary edges. The oppofite edge of the upper tarlus is fomething femicircular between its two extre- mities ; but that of the inferior tarfus is more uniform, and both are thinner than the ciliary edges. Their inner fides, or thofe next the globe, are grooved by leverai fmail tranfverfe channels.Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 93 channels, of which hereafier ; and the extremities of both cartilages are connected by a kind of fmall ligaments. Ligamenta tat forum lata. The broad ligaments of the tarfi. are membranous elongations, formed by the union of the periofteum of the orbits and pericranium along both edges of each orbit, The luperior ligament is broader than the in- ferior, and fixed to the fuperior edge of the upper cartilage, as the inferior is to the lower edge of the lower cartilage; fo that thefe ligaments and the tarfi, taken alone, or without the other parts, reprefent palpebrae. Membrana cotjunBiva. The membrana conjunctiva is a thin membrane, one portion of which lines the inner furface of the palpebrae, that is, of the tarfi and their bread liga- ments. At the edge of the orbit it has a fold, and is conti- nued from thence on the anterior half of the globe of the eye. adheing to the tunica albuginea; fo that the palpebrae and the fore-part of the globe of the eye arc covered by one and the lame membrane, which does not appear to be a con- tinuation of the pericranium, but has fome connexion with the broad ligaments of the tarfi. The name of conjunBiva is commonly given only to that part which covers the globe, the other being called fimply the internal membrane of the palpebrae ; but we may very well name the one membra ocitli conjunBiva, and the other mem- brana palpebrarum cotijunBiva. That of the palpebrae is a very fine membrane, adheres clofe to the palpebrae, and is full of fmall capillary biood-veflels. It is perforated by nu- merous imperceptible pores, through which a kind of ferum is continually difeharged ; and it has feveral very evident folds, which fhali be fpoken to hereafter. The conjunCtiva of the eye adheres by the intervention of a cellular fubftance ; and is confequently loofe, and as it were moveable; and it may be taken hold of, and feparnted in feveral places from the tendinous coat. It is of a whitifh colour jTHE EYE, Part VI. 54 The colour; and being tranfparent, the alubginea makes it appear perfectly white : Thefe two coats together forming what is called the -white of the eye. The greateft part of the numerous veflels which run upon it contain naturally only the ferous part of the blood, and confequently are not difcoverable, except by anatomical inje&ions, inflammations, obftruttions, &c. With the point of a good knife we continue the repa- ration of this membrane over the cornea. Glaiidula lacrymalis. The lacrymal gland, the ufe of which, till of late years, was not known, is yellowifh, and of the number of thofe called conglomerate glands. It lies under that depreflion obfervable in the arch of the orbit near the temples mentioned in the defcription of the fkeleton, and laterally above the globe of the eye. It is a little flatted, and divided, as it were, into two lobes; one of which lies to- ward the infertion of the mufculus levator, the other toward - the abductor. It adheres very clofely to the fat which fur- rounds the mufcles and pofterior convexity of the eye, and it was formerly named glaiidula innominata. From this gland feveral fmall duffs go out, which run down almofl: parallel to each other, through the fubftance of the tunica interna or conjun&iva of the fuperior palpebra, and afterwards pierce it inwardly near the fuperior edge of the tarfus. Steno difcovered the excretory duffs of this gland upon the eye of an ox ; and they are painted by Bidloo 1661. In man, however, they are feen with more difficulty ; for, although defcribed by Winflow and Lieu- taud, they were unknown to later authors, as Morgagni, Zinn, and Haller, till Dr Monro, the prefent profefl'or, dif- covered and injeffed them before the year 1753. They are fix or feven in number, have no communication with each other, and open upon the inner flde of the upper eye-lid near the outer angle.Chap. I. 95 AND ITS APPENDAGES. The borders of each palpebra, taken together, are formed by the edge of the tarfus, and by the union of the internal membrane with the Ikin and epidermis. This border is flat, and of fome fenfible breadth, from within about a quarter of an inch of the internal angle, all the way to the external angle, near which the breadth diminifhes. This breadth is owing only to the thicknefs of the palpebrae, which at this place have their edges oblique or flanting, in fuch a manner as when the two palpebrae touch each other flightly, a trian- gular fpace or canal is formed between them and the globe of the eye. Cilia. The flat edge of each palpebra is adorned with a row of hairs called cilia, or the eye-lopes. Thofe belonging to the fuperior palpebra are bent upward, and are longer than thofe of the lower palpebra which are bent downward. Thefe rows are placed next the fkin, and are not Angle, but irregularly double or triple. The hairs arc longer near the middle of the palpebrae than toward the extremities ; and, for about a quarter of an inch from the inner angle, they arc quite wanting. Glandalae ciliares. Along the fame border of the palpe- brae, near the internal membrane, or toward the eye, we fee a row of Anall holes, which may be named foramina or punBa ciliaria. They are the orifices of the fame number of fmali oblong glands which lie in the fulci, channels, or grooves, on the inner furface of the tarfus. Thefe little glands arc O of a whitilh colour; and, when examined through a fingle microfcope, they appear like bunches of grapes, thofe of each bunch communicating together ; and, when they are fqueezed between two nails, a febaceous matter, like foft wax, is dif- charged through the puntfla ciliaria. They are more nume- rous in the upper than in the under eye-lids, and were firft, painted by Caflerius, but afterwards defcribed by Meibomi'us, by whofe name they are frequently called. Pane?aTHE EYE, 9^ Part VI. PunEla lacrymalia. Near the great or internal angle of the palpebrae, the flat portions of their edges terminate in another, which is rounder and thinner. By the union of thefe two edges an angle is formed ; which is not perfectly pointed like a true angle, but rounded $ and may be called the internal or tiafal angle. At this place, the extremity of the flat portion is diftin- guiflied from the round portion by a fmall protuberance or papilla, which is obliquely perforated by a fmall hole in the edge of each palpebra. Thefe two fmall holes are very vi- fible, and often more fo in living than in dead bodies ; and they are commonly named punEla lacrymalia, being the orifi- ces of two (mall duffs, called lacrymal. which unite beyond the angle of the eye, and open a little below the upper end of a particular refervoir, termed facculus lacrymalis, which lhall be defcribed with the No/e. The punfta lacrymalia are oppofite to each other, fo that they meet when the eye is fhut. Round the orifice of each of thefe points, we obferve a whitifli circle, which fcems to be a cartilaginous appendix of the tarfus, and which keeps the orifice always open. Thefe two oblique circles are fo difpofecl, that, when the eye is but {lightly fliut, they touch each other only toward the Ikin, and not toward the globe of the eye. The fine membrane which covers thefe circles, and paflcs through the punfla into the duffs, feems fo'me- times to wrinkle when it is touched with a ftilet. This ob- fervation was firft made by M. Saint Yves, a Parifian ocu- lift. Caruncula lacrymalis. The caruncula lacrymalis is a fmall reddifh granulated, oblong body, fituated precifely between the internal angle of the palpebrae and globe of the eye, but it is not flefliy, as its name would infinuate. The fubftance of it feems to be wholly glandular ; and it appears through a fingle microfcopc in the fame manner as the other conglome- rateAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. r. 91 rate glands. We difcover upon it a great number of fine hairs, covered by an oily yellowifh matter, furnifhed by this gland ; and, on the globe of the eye, near this glandular body, we fee a femilunar fold formed by the conjundliva, the concave fide of which is turned to the uvea, and the convex fide to the nofe. This fold, which has the name of membrana Jemilunaris, appears raoft when the eye is turned toward the nofe ; it is fhaped like a crefcent, the two points of which anfwer to the pundta lacrymalia, and condudl the tears into the pundla. § 8. The Mufcles of the Palpebrae. The mufcles of the palpebrae are commonly reckoned to be two ; one peculiar to the upper eye-lid, named levator palpebrae fuperioris; the other common to both, called muf- cuius orbicularis palpebrarum, which has been fubdivided by different authors in different manners. See Delcription of Mufcles, Vol. I. The fkin of the fuperior palpebra is folded arch-wife, al- moft in a parallel direction to that of the femioval fibres j. the plicae interfering the levator, whereas the other folds only interfeft the orbicularis. The radiated and oblique plicae feldom appear in young perfons, except when the firft and fecond portions of the orbicularis are in aflion; but in. aged perfons its marks are vifible at all times. In man, the fuperior palpebra has much more motion than the inferior. The fmall fimple motions, called twinklings which frequently happen, though not equally often in all fub- jecls, are performed by the alternate contraction of the leva- tor palpebrae and orbicularis. Thefe flight motions, efpecially thofe of the upper palpe- bra, are not very eafy to be explained according to the true fhutture of the part. The motions which wrinkle the N palpebrae.98 THE EYE, Part VI. palpebrae, and which are commonly performed to keep one eye very dole (hut, while we look ftedtaftly with the other, are explicable by the fimpie contraction of ail the portions of the orbicularis. iliele motions likcwifc deprcls the iuperr cilia, which confecpien'ly may be moved in three different manners, upwards by the mufculi frontales, downward by th<^ orbiculares, and forward Dy the fuperciliares. § 9. The VtJJels of the Lye and its Appendages. The external carotid artery, by means of the arteria max- lllaris externa, and the temporal and frontal arteries, give fc- veral ramifications to the integuments which lurround the eye, and to all the portions of the mufculus orbicularis; and thele ramifications.communicate nynh thole which aie ddlri- buted to the metnbrana conjueUva palpebrarum, and to the caruncula. home lmall branches alio corne in through the fpheno-niaxillary luture, to be diltributeu chiefly on the pe- riofleum of the orbit, and to the fat of the eye. The inter- nal carotid artery having entered the cranium, fends off a con- fiaerable branch called the ocular, which accompanies the op- tic nerve, to he diltributed to the mufdes and globe of the eye, to the levator palpebrae, to the fat, glandula lacrymaiis, membrana conjundtiva, caruncula lacrymaiis, &c. It likewife communicates with the external carotid, and fends one or two very fmall branches to the nofe. The branches which fupply the globe of the eye have the name of ciliares; they perforate the back part of the tunica fclerotica in five or fix places, after which they run a little way through its fubflance, where each branch forms a plexus, which fends numerous branches to the choroides. Dr Wrifberg obferves, they next perforate the external lamina of the choroides, and form, between that and the internal lamina, the vafcular ffellae mentioned in the dtferip- 1 . '■ i • 1 l • • s • ■ * • tionfchap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 99 tion of this internal lamina. Some fmall vafcular filaments from theie ramifications, are likevvife obferved to adhere very cloicly to the tunica vitrea; and they tend, in a direfl courfe to the circumference of the iris, home fmall arteries, which there form a vaicuiar circle that gives capillaries o the mem* brana cryftailina. Thefe vcfiels may be eafily injected in new born chilJren. The potlerior part of the caplule of the lens is fupplied from another fource : Albinas', and after him many others, have injedled, in a foetus, a branch from the arteria centralis retinae, which palles through the middle of the vitreous humour, and is difperied in a radiated manner on the back part of the caplula cryftailina. Zinn is of opi- nion that thefe veflels pafs alio into the body of the lens; but of this lufiicient proofs are wanting. The veins of all thefe parts anfwer nearly to the arteries; thofe of the globe of the eye are called vnfa vorticofa. The internal veins unload themlelves, partly into the internal ju- gular vein, by the finus cavernofi ; and partly into the exter- nal jugular vein, by the vena angularis, or maxillaris externa, the maxillaris interna, temporalis, See. Befides the capillary velfels, eafily diftinguifhable by the red colour of the blood, there are great numbers of thofe which admit nothing but the ferous and lymphatic parts of the blood, and confequentiy do not appear in the natural ftate. They become vifibie in fome places by inflammations and injections, as on the membrana conjunctiva of the eye ; but thefe contrivances do not dilcover them every where in aged perfons. In a foetus, and in new born children, fays Window, a fine injection has fucceeded fo Well as to dilcover the veffels of the membrana cryftailina and vitrea; and in-a foetus of about fix months, the injected liquor feemed to me to have penetrated a part of the cryftalline and vitreous hu- mour.100 THE EYE, Part VI. § io. ‘Ihe Nerves cf the Eye and of its Appendages. Besides the optic nerve already defcribed, the globe of the eye receives feveral fmall ones, which run on each fide along and about the optic nerve, from its entry into the or- bit to its infertion in the globe. Thefe filaments come^chief- ly from a fmall lenticular ganglion, formed by very fhort ra- mi of the orbitary or ophthalmic branch of the fifth pair, and by a branch of the third pair, or motores oculi. The nerves of the lenticular ganglion having reached the globe of the eye, are divided into five or fix fafciculi, which having furrounded the optic nerve, and penetrated and per- forated the fclerotica, run at diftances more or lefs equal be- tween the fclerotica and choroides towards the iris. There each of them is divided into feveral fhort filaments, which terminate in the fubftance of the iris. Thefe fmall nerves, which run from behind forward, between the fclerotica and the choroides, have formerly been taken for particular ligaments by anatomifts of confiderable eminence, but are now known under the name of ciliary nerves. The nerves which go to the other parts belonging to the eye, come from the third, fourth, fixth, and firft two branches of the fifth pair of nerves, and likevvife from the portio dura of the feventh pair. The third, fourth, and fixth pairs give nerves to the mufcles of the globe of the eye. I he two branches of the fifth pair, and the portio dura of the feventh, give nerves not only to the other parts which furround the globe, but alfo to the mufeuli frontales and internal parts of the nofe. The trunk of the third pair, or motores oculi, having enter- ed the orbit through the iuperior orbitary fiflure, or foramen lacerum of the fphenoid bone, produces four branches. The firft runs upwards, and divides into two; one for the rnufeu- lus levator oculi, and the other for the levator palpebrae iu- pericris. The trunk continuing its courfe, gives off the fe- condChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES.’ iof * 1 cond fhort branch to the depreffor oculi. The third branch, is long, and goes to the obliquus inferior, contributing like- wife to the formation of the lenticular ganglion already men- tioned. The fourth branch is large, and fupplies the adduc- tor oculi. The firft branch of the fifth pair, commonly termed mr- vus ophthalmicus, divides into three rami, as it enters the orbit, and fometimes only in two, one of which is afterwards fub- divided. Of thefe three branches one is fuperior, and term- ed tierviis fuperciliaris ; one internal, termed nafalis ; and one external, to which the name of temporalis or lacrymalis is ap- plied. The fuperior or fuperciliary ramus runs along the whole periofteum of the orbit; and having paffed through the fuperciliary notch or foramen of the os frontis, is difiributed to the mufculus frontalis, fuperciliaris, and fuperior portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; and it communicates with a fmall branch of the portio dura of the feventh pair. The internal or nafal branch paffes under the ramification of the nerve of the third pair; and running toward the nofe, is difiributed partly on it, and partly on the neighbouring parts of the orbicularis, the caruncula, &,c. This branch fends off a filament, which, palling through the internal an- terior orbitary hole, enters the cranium, and prefently returns through one of the ethmoidal holes to the internal parts of the nofe. Sometimes this nafal ramus communicates with the ramus fuperciliaris by a particular arch, before it enters the orbitary hole. The external or temporal ramus, which is fometimes a fubdivifion of the fuperciliaris, is difiributed to the glandula lacrymalis, and fends off a filament which pierces the orbi- tary apophyfis of the os malae. The fecond branch of the fifth pair, called tiervus maxilla- ris fuperior, fends off a ramus through the bony canal of the lowerTHE EYE, Part Vf. tot lower part of the orbit, which, going out at the anterior in- ferior orbitary hole, is diftributed to the neighbouring por- tion of the mufculus orbicularus, and communicates with a ramus of the portio dura. The reft of the luperior maxillary nerve fhall be deferibed afterwards. The portio dura of the feventh pair, or auditory nerve, gives branches to the luperior, inferior, and external lateral parts of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; one of which commu- nicates with the nervus 1’uperciliaris, and another with the fub-orbitarius, to be afterwards deferibed. §il. Sight. The eye is the organ of vifion. The greater part of it is compofed of pellucid humours capable of refracting the rays of light. t he complexity of this organ is neceffary for the defence of its tender parts; and the diverlity of the leveral humours, together with the various offices which this curious machine performs, necelfarily required a very compound in- ftrument. Outwardly, a defence is afforded to this organ by the eye- brow or fnpercilium ; and the thick hairs placed there, which are capable of being pulled down by the adtion of the frontal, corrugator, and orbicular mufcles afford a lhade to the eye in too ftrong a light. A depreffion of the eye-brow ferves alfo to exprefs concern of the mind, as an elevation of it denotes the mind to be in a ferene quiet ftate. This guard alfo con- duces to throw off the fweat and retained duft, or the inl'eCts which might fall into the eye. The palpebrae are the peculiar guards of the eye; and that they might Unit the more exactly for the defence of this fenfible and delicate organ, their margins are furniihed with cartilaginous arches, which, accurately correfponding with each other, form a tight and unwrinkled future. The cartilage of each alfo hinders it from being drawn into wrin- kles,103 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I, hies, while it is either elevated or deprefted. The elevation of the upper eye-lid is performed by a mufcle arifing iron* the involucrum of the optic nerye gradually ipreading, and extending by its expanfion to the tarfus. This elevator is confiderably afiiited in its aCtion by the frontalis, and by va- rious connections with the orbicularis when this laft is drawn up or dilated by the former. The upper eye-lid is depreiled by the orbicularis muide, which atfo ferves to elevate the lower eye-lid, and covers the eye in fuch a manner that no dull or light can enter it in deep. The lower eye-lid is deprefted by a double portion of (he fibres, inferted into the upper-lip. Finally, that the protuberant margins of the eye-lids might not injurioufly beat againil each other, the cilia are placed lb as to make a blind or lhade, which, by excluding the extraneous rays, might afford a more diftinCt repreientation of any objeCt. That the eye-lids rubbing again It each other might not grow together, they are fupplied with a row of febaceous glandules, that dilcharge a foft liniment, which mixes and walhes oft" with the tears. Tlie perpetual attrition of the eye-lids afeending and de- fending againft the globe of the eye, is prevented by the fears; which preierve alfo the tendernefs of the membranes and of the cornea, and ferve to wafh out any infeCts or other lliarp corgjifcles. Thefe form a faline pellucid liquor that may be evaporated, and never ccafes to be poured over the anterior furface of the eye ; but never runs over the cheeks, unlefs collefted, by a foreign caufe, in larger than ufual quan- tity. This liquor is exhaled" partly from the arteries of the conjunCUva, and partly proceeds from the lacrymal gland. The reparation of the tears is increafed by the more fre- quent contraction of the orbicular mufcle, either from irrita- tion, or fome forrowful pallion ; by which means the tears are urged over, aqd wafh the whole furface of the eye and Conjunctiva. AfterPart VI. THE EYE, 104 After the tears have performed their office, part of them fly off into the air ; and the reft, that they might not of- fend by their quantity, are propelled by the orbicular mufcle, towards its origin near the nofe, to the lowed part of the palpe- bral margins, which, wanting the tarfus in this place, do not, on that account, exadly meet together. Here the caruncula lacrymalis interpofes, and prevents the meeting of the eye- lids, at the fame time furnifhing a liniment to thole parts which have no Meibomian duds. Before this part is ex- tended a fmall portion, like a little eye-lid ; which, defend- ing perpendicularly, joins the true eye-lids, and is larger in beafts than in men : But, at the beginning of this fpace, be- tween the eye-lids, appears the punclum lacrymale> which drinks up the tears from the ffnus in which they are col- lected, partly by tubular attradion, and partly by impulfe from the orbicular mufcle. If thefe points or openings arc cbftruded, the tears run over and excoriate the cheek. From both points proceeds a fmall dud j thefe join toge- ther, and are inf rted by two mouths near the uppermod; parts of the lacrymalfac> which defends a little backward in- to the nares, opening there by an oblique oblong aperture at the bottom of the meatus, covered by the lower os fpongio- fum. Through this paflage the fuperduous tears defend in- to the nofe, which they in part moiden. A mufcle is by fome writers afcribed to this fac j but it is not yet diffident- ly confirmed. Some late authors have compared the lacry- mal fac to the bladder of urine, which retains its contents for a confiderable time, till it is thrown out, the fphinder being relaxed. A fimilar fphinder has been aferibed to the nafal dud, which is fometimes Ihut and again relaxed, that the tears colleded in the fac may ran out through the nodrils. The globe of the eye, comprefied before, but longer than it is broad, is fated in the cavity of a bony orbit, larger than the eye itfeIf; the excefs is on all fides occupied by a very foftAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. io 5 Vol. II. O tv foft fat, furrounding rhe globe of the eye, and allowing it a free motion within the orbit. Among the coats of the eye, the iris is the only one pof- feffing motion. Though it has little lenlation, and is not en- dowed with any mechanical irritability ; yet, in a living man, quadruped, or bird, it is contivtied on every greater degree of light, and is dilated on every l'nialler one; hence it is ren- dered broader for viewing dittant objedts, and narrower for Viewing iuch as are near. The caule of this dilatation feems to be a reuiiffion of the powers refitting the aqueous humour; an argument of which is the dilatation of the pupil, occafion- ed by debility, or iucceeding lyncope and death. *The con- tradtion is more obfeure, and perhaps only depends on the ftronger afflux of humours into the colourlcfs converging veffels of the iris; fo that this motion has iomething in com- mon with a beginning inflammation. In an animal twenty or thirty hours dead, Dr Haller has feen the radii of the iris extend by hear, and fliut the pupil. We are as yet unacquainted with the origin of the black pigment; nor can any glandules be found, which fome au- thors have affigned for its reparation. Among its other ui'es, one feems to be, to keeps the cryftalline lens firm. In in- fants, this fame mucus has the image of a radiated flower be- hind the ciliary procefs. The retina, which is a continuation of the medulla from the optic nerve, immediately embraces the vitreous humour. Dr Haller fays, that it extends to the furface of the cryftal- line lens; while Dr Monro oblerves, that it ends fome way behind the ciliary circle. Before we can attain any fatisfa&ory knowledge of the na- ture of vifion, it will be neceffaiy to point out fome of the properties of light. Light is an extremely fubtile fluid, pe- netrating with facility bodies of the clofeft texture, and great- eft denfity in a redtiiineal direction, with the amazing v’eloci-ty often millions of miles in a minute. Every luminous bo- the dy has the peculiar property of fending forth rays of light in every pofflble direction, which falling on the furfaces of fur- lounding objects, are reflected thence to our eyes. Hence the colour and form of the object become known. Each ray, fo extremely fmall as to have fcarce any conceivable thicknef?, is feparable into feven permanent and immutable rays of a letter kind, namely red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. Thefe rays are of different degrees of refrangibility, in the order in which they are enumerated, the red rays be- ing raoft refrangible ; and, when they are varioufly compoun- ded, they conftitute the different apparent colours of bodies. The colours which fcem peculiar to certain bodies may be thus explained : The furfaces of bodies, on which a whole ray of light falls, have, by fome peculiar form or conffruCtion, the power of reflecting fome of the primitive rays, and abforbing the others. If, for example, the furface is fo denfe as to re- flect all the primitive rays, the body appears white ; if the furface reflects only the red rays, the body appears red, and fo of others with their combinations. Thofe bodies are o- pake which retain the rays within their fubftance, without permitting any to pafs through them j but thofe which fuller the rays of light to pafs through them, are called tranfparent or pellucid. Rays of light falling perpendicularly on the furface of a tranfparent body, pafs through the body without changing their direction ; but rays falling obliquely on the furface pafs through the body with a change of their direction nearer to the perpendicular ; and this change of direction is called re- fraction. All tranfparent fubftances are, in optics, called refracting mediums. In general, the denfer the medium, the more the rays are bent towards the perpendicular; excepting only inflammable liquors, which, by a peculiar property, draw the rays more to a perpendicular than in proportion toChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 107 the denfity of the kquor. The angle which the oblique ray makes with the perpendicular, is called the angle of incidence; and, after having been bent by entering the medium, the angle it then makes with the perpendicular is called the angle of refaction. We have hitherto conlldered the rays as pal- ling out of void l'pnce, or vacuum, into a refradting medium ; but moll of the rays we have occalion to confider pals out of one refradting medium into another. If the ray pafs from a leis into a more dcnle medium, it is refradted, as if it had pal- fed out of vacuum ; but, if it pafs out of a denfer into a rarer medium, it is bent from the perpendicular. The proportions of the angles of incidence to thofe of refradtion are oblerved to be conftant enough ; the line of the angle of refradtion from air into water is to the line of the angle of incidence as 3 to 4 ; and, in palling from air into glals, the line of the angle of incidence is to the line of that of refradtion as 1 7 to 11 ; and from water into glafs, as 5 1 to 44. Rays that are parallel to one another, falling on a fpheri- cal tranfparent body, if the angle of incidence be greater than 48I degrees, are refiedted, and do not enter the fphere; but, if that angle be lels than 48^, they enter the fphere, and are refradted, fo as all to meet in one point, called the focus. The rays of light, therefore, whether direct or inflected, fall upon the tunica cornea of the eye, fo as to form a very fharp cone between the lucid point and the membrane upon which they are fpread ; the balis of which cone will be the furface of the cornea, and the apex the radiant point; yet fo that all rays may, without any fenfible error, be reckoned paral- lel with each other. Among thele, there are fome rays re- flected back from the cornea, without ever penetrating the furface; namely, all fuch as fall upon that membrane in” a greater angle than that of forty degrees. Others, which en- ter the cornea at very large angles, but lefs than the former, andioS THE EYE, Part VI. and fall In betwixt the iris and the fides of the cryftalline lens, are fuffocated or loft in the black paint that lines the iris and the ciliary procdTes ; but thofe rays only fall upon the furface of the lens which enter the cornea at ftnall angles, not much diflant from the perpendicular, or, at moil, not exceeding twenty-eight degrees. By this xneans, all thofe rays are excluded which the refracting power ot the humours of the eye ce'tiid not be able to concentrate or bring together upon the retina ; without which they would paint the objeCt too large and confuledly. rJ he rays falling on the cornea are therefore refraCled, and pafs through the aqueous hun.our in a more parallel, or per- haps converging direction, by which contrivance a greater number of rays fail on the cryitailine than if they had not previoufly palled through the cornea and the aqueous hu- mour. In the cryftalline lens, and more’elpecially in its pofterior very convex fide, the rays will converge greatly, and pafs thence into the vitreous body. T his vitreous body continues to bend the rays a little mere gently towards the perpendicular, till at length the rays co- ming from the point of difiinCfc vilion, are concentrated into a very (mail part of the retina, where they paint an image of that objeCI from whence they come, but in a pofition inverted, from the necdTary decuflation or crofiing of the rays. The manner in which the images of objeCls are thus painted, may be feen experimentally in an artificial eye, or in a natural eye when the back part of the fclerotica is cut off, and a piece of paper placed to receive the objeCl. The image Is painted on the retina at the end of the vifual axis, which is fituated on the exterior fide of the place where the optic nerve enters the fclerotica ; it is not, however, a mere point, but has fome degree of breadth, fince we fee many pipit ft s at once, whofe images muft be in diftinft points of theAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 109 the painted field. And there an objedt is feen mod dif- tindlly, becaufe the rays arrive thither nearly perpendicular. But frequently this point of vifion does not fall on the fame place on both of the eyes. When the lens has been couched or difplaced, the vitreous body, although it has a weaker rcfradling power, ufually fuffices to bring the vifual rays to- gether to a focus. Is it altogether falfe that the object is painted on the reti- na ? Or is this picture made on the choroides ? Is this la(b Opinion confirmed by an experiment which proves that the place where the optic nerve enters is blind, and which is thus explained, that there is in that place no choroides but the bare retina, and that thence there is no vifion ? But this is repugnant to a very well known obfervation, namely, that the retina is a mod fenfible nervous medulla ; and that the choroides confifts only of a few fmall nerves, and almoft en- tirely of veiTels mod certainly blind. It is likewife contra- didlcd by the very great apparent differences obfervable in. the choroides of different animals, and by the perfedt lame- nefs of the retina in all, and alfo by the black fpots on the retina, which always produce partial blindnefs. This expe- riment fhews alfo the reifon why the optic nerve is not in- ferted into the axis of the eye, but into its fide. Thus, ex- cept only in one fingle cafe, namely, when the objedt is in the concourfe of the lines drawn through the centre of the optic nerves, the one eye fees, and affifls the other, which has the center of its optic nerve turned to the objedt. Since the neceffary offices of human life require a diflindt objedt to be painted upon the retina, not only by the rays which come from one certain diftance, but likewile by rays which come from very different parts more or lefs diftant; it has therefore been thought that a neceffary change, produced by its own caufes, is made on the eye. Other eminent ana- tomies have fuppofed the lens moveable by the powers before mentioned.lie Part VL THE EYE, mentioned. This art of feeing diftinCtly at different diftan- ces is faid to be learned by experience, it being unknown to thofe who have been lately couched. It is aifo faid, that, in an artificial eye, the ufe and neceflity of this motion may be plainly perceived. Too great a divergency of the rays, as in thofe which come from objects very clofe to the eye, is cor- rected by a removal of the lens farther from the retina, fo as to bring the focus upon the retina itfelf, which would other- wife have fallen behind the eye ; for, the refracting power of the eye being the fame, if the focus of rays coming from the diftance of three feet fall perfectly upon the retina, thofe rays which come from the diftance of three inches will not be collected into a focus at the retina, but beyond it; and rays {till more diverging will meet together yet farther behind the eye, if they are not collected together by a greater refraCting power. But thofe rays which come from very remote objeCts, and which may therefore be counted parallel, will meet together before the retina, in the vitreous humour, and feparate again at their point of concourfe, as if it was a lucid point: To re- medy which, therefore, it is fuppofed that thofe powers above mentioned remove the cryftalline lens back from the cornea nearer to the retina, that the rays may form the focus on the retina: For an eye that will collect the rays coming from feven inches,- fo as to unite them on the retina, will colleCt thofe together before the retina which come from a diftance of three feet. It was therefore perfectly neceflary for the eye to be made thus changeable, that we might be able to fee diftinCtly at various diftances. The point of dif- tinct vifion is in that part of the retina where the given ob- jeCt is painted in the leaft compafs poffibk. The powers cauftng the vifual rays to unite on the retina, are often very different in the two eyes of the fame perfon, the one being Jong-fighted and the other fhort-fighted, Thefe,AND ITS APPENDAGES. nf .Chap. I. Thefe, and other commonly received opinions, are taught by mathematicians, who more readily perceive the neceffity of thefe changes. But yet there is no power in the human eye which can either move the cryftalline humour out of its place, or comprefs it: Befides, we do not perceive this facul- ty in ourfelves; for we move a book nearer to our eyes when it is too far off, fo as to appear confufed, which we would have, no occafion to do, if by changing the internal figure of the eye we could correct the fault of the diftance : And through a fmall hole, we perceive an objedt Angle, only in the point of diftindt vifion, but double in every other. Perhaps the contraction of the pupil may enable us to fee near objedts more diftinctly. This contraction, however, is not in all people fufficient for the purpofe. There are feveral people, efpecially fuch as lead a fedentary life, and fuch as are employed in examining minute objedts, whofe cornea is too convex and denfe, whofe crystalline lens is too gibbous and folid, and whofe eye is lengthened by the incumbent weight of the humours, and per- haps the humours themfelves are too denfe; and in the fame perfon the eye may probably have all thefe defedts joined to- I gether. People labouring under one or more of thefe in- conveniencies have an iris that is fenfible in a very fmall de- gree of light, which circumftance makes them twinkle with the eye-lids when they are in a firong light, and they are called myopes or fhort-fighted. In thefe, the point of diftindt: vifion is very near to the eye, commonly from one to feven inches from the cornea ; but they fee remoter objedts more obfcurely, without being able to diftinguifh their parts. The reafon of this is evident ; fince, from the forementioned taufes, there is a greater refradting power of the humours, by which the diftant, and confequently parallel, rays are obli- ged to meet in their focus before the retina, from whence fpreading again, they fall upon the retina in many points. OnPart VI. The eye, 112 On the contrary, to a good eye, objedts which are too near the cdrnea appear confided ; becaufe the rays coming from them are fpread over feveral parts of the retina, and are not collected in a point on it. The remedy for this fault in the fight is to correct it in its beginning, by looking at diftant, rather than near and minute objedts; by the ufe of concave glades, or by viewing things through a fmall hole, by which the light is weakened. When the diforder is confirmed, the remedy is a concave lens, which takes off a degree of the refradting power in the hu- mours, cornea, and cryftalline lens, in proportion as it is more concave ; by which means the focus of rays from re- mote objedts is removed farther behind the cornea, fo as to fall upon the retina. This glafs ought to be a portion of a fphere, whofe diameter is equal to the fquare of the difiance of diftindt vifion from the naked eye, multiplied by the dif- tance of diftindt vifion in the armed eye, and that produdt divided by the difference between them. Age itfelf advan- cing, gives fome relief to the fhort-fighted, for children are moftly near-fighted; but, as the eye grows older it becomes flatter, in proportion as the folids grow ftronger; and, con- tradting to a fhorter axis, the refradting powers of the lens and cornea are diminilhed. The other diforder of the fight, contrary to the former, troubles people who often look at very diftant objedts, and is more efpecially familiar and incurable in old people. In fuch, the cornea and cryftalline lens are flatter, and the humours of the eye have a lefs refradting power. Hence near objedts, i whofe rays fall very diverging upon the cornea, appear con- fufed ; becaufe the converging or refradting powers of the eye are not fuflkient to bring the rays together in a focus l upon the retina ; but the rays go on fcattered beyond the! retina, and threw the point of their pencil behind the eye,| from whence vifion is confufed. The point of diftindt vifion amoniChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 113 AND ITS APPENDAGES. among prdbyopi, or old or long-fighted people, is from the diftance of fifteen inches to three feet. Such perfons are, in fome meafure, relieved by looking through a black tube held before the eye; by the ule of which the retina grows tenderer, and the rays come to the eye in a parallel direction. The remedy here is a convex lens, which caufes the rays to converge and unite together fooner in a focus, that it may not fall behind the eye, but upon the retina. The diameter of the fphere, of which fuch a lens ought to be a portion, is determined as before. There is no hope of relief from age, which increafes the malady. The medium between the fhort and long lighted eye is the beff, by which a perfon can fee diftinfUy enough objects that are both near and remote ; and of this kind we reckon an eye that is able to read diftinftly at the diltance of one foot. But a good eye requires other necelTary conditions, fuch as a perfect clearnefs of the humours ; a due mobility of the eye itfelf, and its parts; a fenfibility of the pupil, and a retina neither too prurient nor too callous. The mind only receives a reprefentation of the image of the objeft by the eye, impreffed on the retina, and transfer- red to the common fenfory or feat of the foul. Several cir- cumflances relative to vifion are not determined by the in- flrumentality of the eye, but are perceived by the mind from mere experience ; and fometimes the mind interprets the re- prefentation to be very different from that which the eye gives to her. The magnitude of an object, for inflattce, is not determined by the eye, but by the optical angle, which is formed by lines fuppoffed to be drawn from the extremities of the object to the cornea. Hence near objects feem large, and thofe at a diffance linall. On this circumftance alfo the power of microfcopes depends, which magnify in proportion to the difference between the focal length of the magnifier Voj-W- P andTHE EYE, 314 ' Part VI. and the diftance of diftincl vifion. Obje&s, by the means of this, inftrument, not only appear larger, but brighter and more diftinfc, and hence the mind thinks them nearer. The brightnefs of objects lituated in the fame light de- pends partly on the fize of this fame angle, partly on the number of rays which they reflect, and partly on the fmalt- nefs of the picture on the retina j hence near objects appear bright, while thofe that are more remote fecm oofcure; and hence alfo, ( when remote obje£ts are more enlightened, the mind iuppofes them either greater or nearer than they really are. The apparent place of an obj.-ct, feen with one eye, is in the line which divides the optical angle. Bur, if We look at an object with both eyes, its apparent place wiil be in the point where lines, drawn through the axes of both eyes to the objeft, meet. Dtjlar.cc we cannot perceive ; and if a blind man, who ne- ver faw, fhould by any means be reftored to fight, he would imagine every thing he faw to teuch his eyes Even we, who are accuftomed to judge by fight, make many fallacious conjectures concerning the diftance of objects. We judge of the diftance of an objeCt from the diminution of its known bulk; from its drminilhed brightnefs; from the faintnefs of its'image, by which we are lei’s capable of diflinguifbing its parts ; and, laftiy, from the number of bodies, whole dif* tan.es is known, that are interpofed between us and the ob- je£t. A body does not feem convex, until we have learnt by ex- perience, that a body, which is convex to the feeling, caufes light and lhadow to be difpoled in a certain manner. Hence it is, that microfcopes frequently pervert the judgment, by tranfpofing or changing the fhadows. The fame alfo hap- pens in that phenomenon which is not yet fufliciently under- stood, . 1 \ IChap. I. ns AND ITS AFP END AGES. flood, by which the concave parts of a feal are na!e to feem convex, and the contrary The viiibleJi/ualio/i of the parts cf an objeift, is judged by the mind to be the lame with that which thefe parts uatarally have in the object, and not the inverted position in which they are painted upon the retina. The hiculty of correcting this inverfion feems to be innate ; for new-born animals al- ways fee objeCts upright •, and men who have been horn with cataraCts are obfcrved, upon couching the cataraCts, to fee every thing in its natural fituatioh, without the ufe of any feeling, or previous experiences. The mind is often impofed on by the continuance of the fenfation after it has been conveyed to the mind, by which means objeCts, although inftantly removed, continue to be feen for about a fecond. Hence proceeds the idea of a fiery circle from the circumrotation of a lucid body ; and hence silo proceeds the continuance of the fhining image of the fun, and fometitnes of other bodies, after they have been viewed by the eve.- Do we diftinclly perceive only one object fituated in tire axis of diltmCt vifion ? And does the eye perfuade itfeif, that it fees many objefts at a time, partly from the duration of the ideas, and partly from the quicknefs of the motions of the eye ? In Hi ft i n Ct vilion, We may certainly anfwer thefe quefiions in the affirmative, but not in more imperfeCt vifion. Why do we fee only one objeCt with two eyes ? becaufe, when the impreffions of two objeHs are fimiiar, the fenfation becomes fingle. Even without the concourfe of optic nerves, inleCts who have numerous eyes perceive objects fingle. Hence the images of two objects excite only one fenfation, when they fall upon the fame point of the retina ; but two lenf.t- tions arife from one cbjedt* when the images fall upon diffe- rent parts of the retina. Whence proceed diurnal and noc- turnal blindnefs ? llie former is common to many nations livingl'i 6 Part VL THE EYE, living in the vvarmeft climates, under the brighteft fun, and to old men. Ihe other happens in inflamed eyes, and to young men of a hot temperament, who are endowed with eyes vaft- ly fenfible. Whence do animals fee in the dark ? From a large dilatable pupil, and tender retina ; and a fhining cho- roides, which reflefls the light very ftrongly. Why are we blind when brought out of a ftrong light into a weak one ? Becaufe the optic nerve, having fuffered the action of ftronger rays of light, is incapable of being moved by thofe that are weaker. Whence have we a pain, by palling fuddenly from a dark place into the light ? Becaufe the pupil, being widely dilated in the dark, fuddenly admits too great a quantity of light before it can contract 5 whence the tender retina, which is eafily affected by a frnall light, feels, for a time, an im- •prefllon too fharp and ftrong. Whether do we fee with one eye, or with both ? Molt frequently with one, and more efpecially the right eye : But, when both are employed to- gether, we fee more objects, and more plainly ; and we alfo diftinguilh more points of the fame object, and judge better of their diftances. Sect. III. The Nose. The parts of which the nofe is compofed, may be divided in two different ways, viz. from their fituation, into external and internal parts; and, from their ftrutture, into hard and loft parts. The external parts are the root of the nofe, the arch, the back or fpine of the nofe, the Tides of the nofe or of the arch, the tip of the nofe, the alae, the external nares, and the part under the fcptum. 'P'hg internal parts are the internal nares, the fcptum nari- um, the circumvolutions, the conchae fuperiores, or offa fpon- giofa fuperiora, conchae inferiores, the pofterior openings of b theChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. ii? the internal nares, the finus frontales, finus maxillares, finus fphenoidales, the du&us lacrymales, and dudtus palatini. The firm or hard parts are moftly bony, and the reft car- tilaginous, viz, the os frontis, os ethmoides, os fphenoides, ofla maxillaria, ofla nafi, ofla unguis, ofla palati, vomer, con- chae iaferiores, and the cartilages. To thefe we may add the periofteum and perichondrium, as parts belonging to the bones and cartilages. The foft parts are the integuments, mufcles, facculus lacry- malis, membrana pituitaria, veflels, nerves, and hairs of the nares. The bony parts have been all explained in the de- fcription of the Ikeleton ; and therefore we need only in this place notice their diftribution and difpofition, as far as relates to the formation of fome of the principal parts. The fep- tum is formed by the defcending lamina of the os ethmoides, and by the vomer ; and it is placed in the groove framed by the criftae of the ofla maxillaria, and riling edges of the ofla palati. The fore part of the nofe is formed by the ofla nafi ; and the fides, by the fuperior apophyfes of the ofla maxil- laria. The internal nares, or the two cavities of the nofe, com- prehend the whole fpace between the external nares and pofterior openings, immediately above the arch of the palate, from whence thefe cavities reach upward as far as the lamina cribrofa of the os ethmoides, where they communicate for- ward with the finus frontales, and backward with the finus fphenoidales. Laterally, thefe cavities are bounded on the infide by the feptum narium ; and on the outfide, or that next the cheek, by the conchae or ofla fpongiofa, between which they communicate with the finus maxillaris. The particular fituation of thefe cavities deferves our at- tention. The bottom of them runs dire&ly backward, fo that a ftraight and large probe may eafily be paffed from the external nares, under the great apophyfis of the occipital bone.Part Vh THE NOSE, 113 bone. The openings of the maxillary fioufes are nearly op* polite to the upper edge of the offa malarum. The openings of the frontal Unities are more or Ids oppofite to and between the pulleys or rings of the mufculi trochleares ; and by thefe marks the fltuation of all the other parts may be determi- ned. \ The inferior portion of the external nofe is compofed of feveral cartilages, which are'commonly five in number, and nearly of a regular figure. The reft are only additional, fmaller, mere irregular, and the number of them more un- certain. Of the five ordinary cartilages, one is fituated in the middle, the other four laterally. The middle cartilage is the molt confiderable, and fupports the reft, being connec- ted immediately to the bony parts ; but the other four are connected to the middle cartilage, and to each other, by means of ligaments. The principal cartilage of the nofe confifts of three parts, one middle, and two lateral. The middie portion is a broad cartilaginous lamina, joined, by a kind of fymphyfis, to the anterior edge of the middle lamina of the os ethmoides, to the anterior edge of the vomer, and to the anterior part of the groove formed by the efta maxillaria, as far as the nafal fpir.es of thefe bones. This lamina completes the feptum mrium, and indeed foims its principal part. The lateral portions are. oblique and narrow, fuited to the correljponding parts of the bony arch- Where they join the middle lamina, a fuperficial groove is obfervable, which makes them fometimes appear like two diftinft pieces, feparated from the lamina, though they are really continuous. This ihallow groove terminates below by a fmall crifta. The lateral cartilages are two, on each fide of the inferior part of the lamina ; one anterior, the other pofterior. The two anterior cartilages are very much bent forward, and form what is called the tip of the nofe; the fipace between their in- curvatedChap. I. 119 AND ITS APPENDAGES. curvated extremities being commonly filled with a kind of fatty fubftance. The two pofterior cartilages form the alae of the nares, being pretty broad, and of an irregular figUir. The fpaces left between iome portions of the anterior and pofterior cartilages, thole between the polterior cartilages and the neighbouring parts of the offa maxillaria, and Lilly thole between thele four lateral cartilages and the principal lamina, vary in different fubjcdls, and are filled by frnall additional camLges, the number, fizc, and figure of which, are as va- rious as the interfaces in which they lie. The iub-leptum, or portion under the i'eptum narium, is a pillar of fat applied to the interior edge of the cartilaginous partition, in form of a iolt moveable appendix, The thick- nels of the alae narium, and clpccially that of their lower edges, is not owing to the cartilages, which are very thin, _ but to the fame kind of folid fat with which thele cartilages are covered. The great cartilage is immoveable, by realon of its firm conntdhon to the bony parts of the nole ; but the lateral cartilages aie moveable, becaule of their ligamentous connedtions, in different manners, by the mulcles belonging to them. The external nofe is covered by the common integuments, the ikin, epidermis, and fat. I he parts which cover the tip of the nofe and alae narium, are pierced with the duffs of a great number of glandulae febaceae, the contents of which may eafily be fqueezed cut by the fingers. All thefe bony and cartilaginous parts have iikewife the common perioftcum or perichondrium. Mufchs cf the nofe. Six mufcles arc commonly reckoned to belong to the nofe ; two levatores, two depreffores, and two compreffores. In very mufcular bodies, there are like- wife lome fupernumerary mulcles, or fmaller accefforii. The aiofe may alfo be moved, in forne meafure, by the neighbour- ing120 THE NOSE, Part VI. ing mufcles, which, in many cafes, become affiftants to the proper mufcles of this organ. The firft pair of thefe mufcles raifes and dilates the alae of the nares when they adt. They likewife wrinkle the {kin on the tides of the nofe. The fecond pair have the contrary effedt; and the third pair comprefs the tides of the nofe to the feptum, as in fmelling. Membrana pituitaria. The membrana pituitaria is that which lines the whole internal nares, the otfa fpongiofa, the tides of the feptum narium, and, by an uninterrupted continu- ation, the inner furface of the tinus frontales and maxillares, and of the dudtus lacrymales, palatini, and fphenoidales. It is likewife continued down from the nares to the pharynx, feptum palati, Euftachian tubes, &.c. as we fliall {hew here- after. It is likewife known by the name of Schneideriana, from the anatomift who has given a defcription of it. It is termed pituitaria, becaufe through the greateft part of its large extent, it ferves to feparate from the arterial blood a mucilaginous lymph, called pituita by the antients, which, in its natural ftate, is nearly liquid ; but it is fubjedl to very great changes, becoming fometimes glutinous or fnotty, fome- times limpid, &c. *, neither is it feparated in equal quantities through the whole membrane. When we carefully examine this membrane, it appears to be of a different flrudture in different parts. Near the edge of the external nares it is very thin, appearing to be the fkin and epidermis in a degenerated ftate. All the other parts of it, in general, are fpongy, and of different thickneffes. The thickeft parts are thofe on the feptum narium, on the whole lower portion of the internal nares, and on the conchae ; and, if we make a fmall hole in it at any of thefe places, and then blow through a pipe, we difeover a very large cellular fubftance. In the finufes it appears to be of a more {lender texture. WinflowAND ITS APPENDAGES. 121 Chap- I* Vox. II. Backward, Window obferves, that, on the fide next the periofteum and perichondrium, it is plentifully fiored with finall glands, the excretory dudts of which are very long near the feptum narium, and their orifices are very vifible; and that, by ap- plying a pipe to any of thel'e orifices, the dufls may be blown up almott through their whole extent ; but that, in order to this, the parts mult firft be very well cleaned and wafhed in lukewarm water. Sabatier gives fomewhat of a different de- feription : He admits of mucous follicles ; but fays they are very different-from thofe which are properly called glands. Sinus. The frontal, maxillary, and Iphenoidal finules open into the internal nares, but in different manners. The fron- tal finufes open from above downward, anfwering to the infundibula of the os ethmoides di-fcribed in the hiftory of the fkeleton. The fphenoidales open forwards, oppofite to the poflerior orifices of the nares ; and the maxillares open a little higher, between the two conchae or offa fpongiofa. Therefore the finus frontales dilcharge themlclves moll rea- dily when we hand or fit; and the fphenoidales, when the head is inclined forward. The finus maxillares cannot be emptied wholly, or both, at the fame time, in any one fituation. 1 heir openings, which in fome fubje&s are fingle, in others double, Sec. lie exactly between the two offa fpongiola of the fame fide, about the middle of their depth; fo that, when the head is held flraight, or inclined forward or backward, they can only be half emptied ; but, when we lie on one fide, the finus of the oppofite fide may be wholly emptied ; the other remaining full. It is proper here to obferve the whole extent of the maxil- lary finus. Below, there is but a very thin partition between it and the dentes molares, the roots of which, in lome fub- je£ls, perforate that feptum. Above, there is only a very thin tranfparent lamina between the orbit and the finus.112 Part VL THE NOSE, Backward, above the tuberofity of the os maxillare, the tides of the finus are very thin, efpecially at the place which lies before the root of the apophyfes pterygoides. Inward, or toward the conchae narium, the bony part of the finus is likewife very thin. Sacculus lacrymalis. The lacrymal facculus is an oblong membranous bag, into which the ferous fluid is difcharged from the eye, through the puncta lacrymalia already defcrl- bed, and from which the fame fluid pafles to the lower part of the internal nares. It is fituated in a bony groove and canal, formed partly by the apophylis nafalis of the os maxil- lare and os unguis, partly by the fame ds maxillare and lower part of the os unguis, and partly by this lower portion of the os unguis, and a fmall fuperior portion of the conchae na- rium inferior. This groove and canal are the bony lacrymal dudf, about which beginners fliould confult what was faid hi the defcription of the fkeleton. With refpeft to the fituation of this bony duft. It runs down for a little way obliquely backward, toward the lower and lateral part of the internal nares on each fide, where its lower extremity opens on one fide of the finus maxillaris under the os fpongiofum inferius, nearly at the place from which a perpendicular line would fall in the interftice be- tween the fecond and third dens molaris. The upper part of this dudt is only an half-canal or groove; the lower is a complete canal, narrower than the former. The facculus lacrymalis may be divided into a fuperior or orbitary portion, and an inferior or nafal portion. The orbitary portion fills the whole bony groove, being fituated immediately behind the middle tendon of the mufculus or- bicularis. About one fourth of its length is above this ten- don, and the reft below ; the upper part is the lacrymal fac properly To called ; while the nafal portion, which lies in the bony canal of the nole, being narrower and fhorter than theChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 123 the former, is termed lacrymal duEl; the one is merely a continuation of the other, without any valve, &.c. between them. The orbitary portion is difpofed at its upper extremity, much in the manner of an inteftinum caecum, and at the lower extremity is fomewhat narrower than the portio nafalis. Towards the internal angle of the eye, behind the tendon of the orbicular mufcle, it is perforated by a fmall lhort canal formed by the union of the lacrymal duffs. The nafal portion becomes gradually larger towards its un- der end, and having reached the lower part of the bony duff under the inferior concha is perforated by a round opening, which at firft fight appears oblong. If a tranfverfe line be drawn between the lower part of the pole and os malae, and another line be drawn direffly upward, oppofite to the third dens molaris, or oppofite to the fecond and third, thefe two lines will interfeff each other nearly at the lower extremity of this facculus. Sometimes the upper extremity of this bag has been found divided into an anterior and pofterior part, by a kind of val- vula connivens lying in the anterior portion, a little lower than the tendon of the mufculus orbicularis. The fmall common canal of the two lacrymal duffs opens in the pofter rior part of this facculus, and confequentiy behind the yalve. The fubftance of this facculus is fomething fpongy or cel- lulous, and thickifh, being ffrongly united by its convex fidp to the perioffeum of the bony canal, which may be very dif- tinffly {hewn. Sabatier obferves, that its fubftance is ftmilar to that of the membrana pituitaria, and that it is lined with the fame kind of mucous within. Its ufe has been compared, by fome late writers, to that of the bladder of urine, as was mentioned in the defcription of the eye. Duclus iiiciforii. The duftus inciforii, or nafo-palatini of gteno, are two canals which go from the bottom of the in- ' tem^lPart VI. 124 THE NOSE, ternal narcs, crofs the arch of the palate, and open behind the firft or largett dentes inciforii. Their two orifices may be diftinftly feen in the lkeleton at the lower part ot the nafal foflae, on the anterior and lateral fnles of the criitae maxillares; and we may likewife perceive their oblique pafTage through the maxillary bones; and laftly, their inferior ori- fices, in a fmall cavity or foflula, calied foramen palatinum an- ierius. In frefh fubjetts they are not to apparent, efpec aily in human fubjects; but in fheep and oxen ti.ey are eafily difcoverable. Arteries and veins. The arteries of all thefe parts come chiefly from the external carotid. Thofe of the external parts of the nofe are chiefly branches and rami of the arteria maxillaris externa or angularis, and of the temporalis; and the arteries of the tnicrnal parts are branches and ramifica- tions of the maxillaris interna, and likewife fmall branches from the ocular artery. The veins are, almoft in the lame manner, branches and ramifications of the external jugular; and they communicate with the orb'tary finufes, and, by that means, with the finus of the dura mater, and with the inter- nal jugulars. Nerves. 1 he principal nerves belonging to the nofe are filaments of the nervi olfa&orii, which run down through the holes of the traniverfe lamina of the os ethmoides, and are aiftributed to the common membrane of the internal nares, efpecially to its villous portions The inner ramus of the orbitary or ophthalmic fends a filament through the internal anterior orbitary hole into the cranium, which comes out again in company with one of the filaments of the olfac- tory nerve through the ethmoidal lamina. This internal ramus advances afterwards toward the os unguis; and is diftributed partly to the facculus lacrymalis, partly to the upper portion of the mufculus levator alae nafi, and cf the integuments of the nofe. The fuborbitary nerve, whichAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 12ij which is a branch of the maxillaris fuperior, having patted through the inferior orbitary hole, fends filaments to the la- teral external parts of the nofe. Another ramus of the fu^ perior maxillary nerve goes to the pofterior opening of the nares, being Ipent on the conchae and other internal parts of the nofe. The outer part of the nofe is fupplied by branches from the luperior maxillary nerve, or iiecond branch of the fifth pair, and by others from the portio dura of the feventh pair. in animals which fmell acutely, the parts of the nofe are remarkably large ; but the formation of tne human head in- to a rcundifh figure, has given to the organ of lmelling only a fmall extent of furface ; but, to enlarge this the more, na- ture has made the internal parts of the nofe hollow, and va- rioully complicated in a iurprifing manner. § I. Of Smelling. The tatting noxious food might in many inftances be highly dangerous. We can by this fenfe, independent of tatte, difeover the noxious quality of aliments, elpecially luch as are putrid, and confequently peculiarly hurtful to the hu- man frame ; and at the fame time that it directs us to avoid what is dangerous, it enables us to difeern what is grateful and wholefome. This ufe of lmelling in choofing food, is more obfervable in brutes than in men ; yet men left to tliemfeives, and who are undebauched by a variety of feents, pottefs this fagacious faculty in a very eminent degree. The powers and virtues of medicinal plants are hardly to be better known than by the fimple teftimony of tatting and fmelling. Hence it is, that in all animals thefe organs are placed together; and hence the fmelling is fti onger, and the ^rgans larger, in thofe animals which are to feek their prey atTHE NOSE, Part VI. xi6 at a conGderable diftance, or to reject malignant plants from among thofe that are fit for food. The fenfe of fmelling is performed by means of a foft pul- py membrane, full of pores and fmall vefiels, which lines the whole internal cavity of the noftrils ; it is thicker upon the feptum and principal convolutions, but thinner in the finufes. Within this membrane are difiributed vefiels and nerves which have been already deferibed. The nerves of the nofe, being almoft naked, require a de- fence from the air, which is continually drawn through the noftrils, and blown out again by refpiration. Nature has therefore fupplied this part, which is the organ of fmelling, with a thick infipid mucus, very fluid in its firft reparation, but, by the air, condenfing into a thick, dry, and more con- fiftent cruft. By this mucus the nerves are defended from drying and from pain. It is poured out from many fmall arteries, and depofited partly into numerous cylindrical dudts, and partly into round vifible cryptae or cells, fcattered all over the noftrils. It flows out all over the furface of the olfactory membrane, which is anointed with it on all fides. This mu- cus is accumulated in the night time ; but, in the day, it either flows fpontaneoufly, or may be more powerfully expel- led by blowing the nofe. By becoming dry and harlh, it ir- ritates the very fenfible nerves of the membrane, whence a fneezing is excited for its removal. The finufes of this part, which abound with mucus, are evacuated in the manner al- ready deferibed in page 121. The tears defeend, by a chan- nel proper to themfelves, into the cavity of the nofe, by which they moiften and dilute the mucus. The cartilages render the nofe moveable by its proper muf- cles, fo as to be raifed and dilated by a mufcle common to the upper lip, and to be contracted together into a narrow compafs by the proper depreflor and compreflor mufcle pul- ling down the feptum. Thus the prominent organ of fmel-AND ITS APPENDAGES. t2? Chap. I. the ling is adapted to the reception of fcents; and it is dilated in proportion to the quantity of inhaled air, and again contrac- ted, when the air is expelled in the lame abundance. The air, filled with the fubtle and invifible effluvia of bo- dies, confifting of their volatile, oily, and laline particles, is, by the powers of refpiration, urged through the nofe, and applied to the almoft naked, and confiantly foft, olfactory nerves, in which a kind of feeling is excited, which we call jmeltings and by this fenfe we diftinguifh feveral kinds of oils and falts, by different fcents or odures, which are difficultly reducible to claffes, and difficultly recalled to memory. The odours, however, already eftablifhed, are fufficient enough for our purpofes. This fenfe ferves to admonifh us of per- nicious putrefadticn ; of violent acrimony ; or of a mild and foapy quality in bodies. As fait, joined with an oil, is the objeft of tafte; and a volatile oil, added to falts, ferves to excite fmells, we may perceive the affinity of thefe two fenfes, which affinity feemed to be the more neceffary on account of thefe fenfes mutually and jointly affifting each other in per- forming their offices. Volatile particles are chiefly diftin* guifhed by fmell, and fixed ones by tafte ; perhaps becaufe the thick mucous cuticle, fpread over the tongue, intercepts the affion of the more fubtle faline effluvia from afting upon the tafte, which yet eafily afteft the lofter and lefs covered nerves of the internal nofe. We are ignorant of the reafon vvhyfome fmells pleafe, and others difpleafej perhaps cuftom may have much influence in this refpedt. The power of odours is ftrong and quick, becaufe minute particles of matter are immediately applied to naked nerves fituated very near the brain : HenOe the force of poifonous vapours, and hence alfo the quality certain odours poflefs, of recovering people from faintings, or after drowning : Hence alfo that violent fneezing which often arifes from acrid parti- cles, and a diarrhoea fron> the fmell of fome medicines; hencePart VI. iiS THE EAR, the power of particular antipathies : Hence alfo the perni- cious effedls of exceffive freezing, more efpecially in produ- cing blindnefs, which may, in fome meafure, alio be more cafily brought on by the confent of the nerves that are exceedingly numerous in tliefe neighbouring organs. Among the various parts of the nofe, the feptuin, and more efpecially the os tur- binatum, have a confiderable frare in the organ of fmelling, fince thefe parts are multiplied in quick feented animals. In clogs, and other quadrupeds, they are prodigioufly lengthened, and beautifully formed into fpiral laminae; in fifties they arc elegantly formed, like the teeth of a comb. Sect. IV. The Ear. The ear in general. The ears are two ; they are fituated in the lateral parts of the head, and are the organs of hearing. Anatomifts commonly divide or diftinguifh the ear into ex- ternal and internal. By the external ear they mean all that lies without the external orifice of the meatus auditorus in the os temporis; by the internal ear, all that lies within the cavities of that bone, and alio the parts that bear any relation thereto. The greateft part of the external ear conflfls of a large car- tilage, very artificially framed, which is the bafis of all the other parts of which this portion of the ear is compofed. The in- ternal ear confifts chiefly of fevcral bony pieces, partly form- ed in the fubftance of the os temporis, and efpecially in that portion of it called apophpfis petrofa; and partly feparated from, but contained in, a particular cavity of that bone. The external ear. Two portions are diftinguifhed in the external ear; one large and folid, called pinna, which is the fuperior, and by much the greater part; the other fmall and loft, called the lobe, which makes the lower part. We may likewife confider two Tides in the outward ear, one turned obliquelyChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 129 oblPquely forwarJ, and irregularly concave; the other turned, obliquely backward, and unequally convex ; for all ears which have not been difordered by binding the head too tight in childhood, are naturally bent forward. The forefide is divided into eminences and cavities. The eminences are four in number, called l.vlix, antihelix, tragus, and antitragus. The helix is the large folded border or cir- cumference of the great portion of the ear. The antihelix is the large oblong eminence, furrounded by the helix. The tragus is the fmall anterior protuberance below the anterior extremity of the helix, which, in an advanced age, is cover- ed with hairs. The antitragus is the pofterior tubercle, be- low the inferior extremity of the antihelix. The cavities on the forefide are four in number : The hollow of the helix ; the deprefiion at the luperior extremi- ty of the antihelix, called fojfa navicularis j the concha, or great double cavity that lies under the rifing termed antihelixt ■the upper bottom of which is diflinguifhed from the lower by a continuation of the helix in form of a tranfverle crijta ; and lafily, the meatus of the external ear, fituated at the lower part of the bottom of the concha. The backfide of the external ear fhews only one confider- v \ able eminence, which is a portion of the convex fide of the concha, the other portion being hid by the adhefion of the ear to the os temporis. This adhefion hinders us likewile from feeing the hollow anfwering to the crifta, by which the cavity of the concha is divided. The other parts of the external ear are ligaments, mufcles, integuments, febaceous and ceruminous glands, veflels, and nerves. . • - The cartilage of the outward ear is nearly of the fame ex- tent and figure with the large folid portion already mention- ed ; but it is not of the fame thicknefs, being covered by in- teguments on both fides. In the lobe or foft lower portion VoL.lI. R . of*3° THE EAR, Part VI. of the ear, this cartilage is wanting. On the backfide, it fliews all the eminences and cavities of the forefide in an op- pofite fituation with refpeft to each other, except the fold of the great circumference; and it confifts ortfy of one piece from that circumference all the way to the meatus externus, except at the two extremities of the folded part of the helix, where there are two fmall feparate portions connected to the great cartilage only by the integuments. The cartilaginous portion of the external meatus audito- rius does not make a complete circle, but rather a fhort tube, in one fide of which there is a break, and which terminates in an oblique border fixed to the edge of the bony canal by feveral fmall inequalities ; and, in confequence of this obli- quity, the cartilaginous border terminates downward in a kind of apex or point. The lateral break in this cartilage is between the upper and back part of its circumference; and on each fide thereof the cartilaginous edges are rounded. There are likewife two or three other lmall incilures in this circumference, which, in regard to the meatus, reprefent ob- liquely tranfverfe fiflures. The anterior fiiTure is in a manner quadrangular, neither are the intermediate parts always op- pofite to each other, for the uppermoft is a little further from the os temporis than the pofterior. The external ear is fixed to the cranium, not only by the cartilaginous portion of the meatus already mentioned, but alfo by two ligaments, one anterior, the other pofterior. The anterior ligament is fixed by one extremity to the root of the apophyfis zygomadca of the os temporis, at the anterior and a little toward the fuperior part of the meatus ofleuf, clofc to the corner of the glenoid cavity; and by the other extre- mity, to the anterior and fuperior part of the cartilaginous meatus. The pofterior ligament Is fixed by one end to the root of the maftoid apophyfis ; and by the other, to the pofterior partChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 13* part of the convexity of the concha, fo that it is oppofite to the anterior ligament. There is likewife a kind of fuperior ligament, which leems to be only a continuation of the apo- neurofis of the frontal and occipital mufcles. Of the mufcles of the external ear, fome go between the cartilages and the os temporis, others are confined to the car- tilages alone. Both kinds vary in different fubjedls, and are fometimes fo very thin as to look more like ligaments than : mufcles. The mufcles of the firft kind are generally three, , one fuperior, one pollerior, and one anterior; and they are ; all very thin. The fmall mufcles tvhich are confined to the cartilages, i are only fmall ftrata of fibres found on both fides of the car- ttilages. In many fubjeds they are of fo pale a colour as not tto look at all like mulcular fibres. Of this number are thofe 1 which Wallalva difcovered in the different cavities on the backfide of the cartilage ; and thofe found by Santorini on tthe tragtis, and along the convex part of the anterior portion cof the helix. (See the 1'reatife on the Mufcles.) The lkin of the external ear is in general a continuation cof that which covers the neighbouring parts of the tempo- rral region. The lkin on the forefide of the ear is accompa- nied by a very fmall quantity of cellular fubftance ; and there- fore we find all the eminences and cavities of that fide difi. tinttly marked upon it, as far as the bottom of the external meatus auditorius. In what has been faid of the lkin, the epidermis is likewife comprehended. The backfide is covered by the lkin continued from the I forefide but, as the folds are there very dofe, it only paffes over them, except that portion of the concha which fur- rounds the entry of the meatus auditorius, and which is join- ed to the os temporis by means of the cellular fubftance. The hollow of that common fold which lies between the antihelix andPart VI. ry2 THE EAR, The and concha does not appear on the backfide for, as it is fil- led with cellular fubftance, the fkin pafles ovrfr it. The lobe of the ear, or that foft portion which lies under the tragus, antitragus, and meatus auditorius, is made up of nothing but fkin and cellular fubftance. The meatus audi- torius is partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The bony portion is the longeft, and forms the bottom of the canal, as may be feen in the defcription of the fkeleton. The cartila- ginous portion is the fhorteft; and, in adults, forms the ex- ternal opening or orifice of the canal, as has been already faid. Thefe two portions, joined endwife to each other, form a canal of a confiderable length, of different widenefs in its dif- ferent parts, and a little contorted. It is lined on the infide by the fkin and cellular membrane, through its whole length ; and thus thefe integuments make up for the breaks in the cartilaginous portions, and form a kind of cutaneous tube in the other portion. The cellular membrane is con- founded with the perichondrium and periofteum of the mea- tus. The fkin which covers both fides of the cartilage contains a '’reat number cf fmall glands, which continually difcharge an oily whitilh humour, collected chiefly near the adkefions of the ear to the head, and under the fold of the helix•, and thefe glands are of the ftbaceous kind. The fkin, which lines the meatus auditorius, contains another kind of glands, of a yellowifh colour, and which may be plainly feen on the con- vex fide of the cutaneous tube already mentioned. Thefe glands are difpofed in fuch a manner as to leave re- ticular fpaces between them, and they penetrate a little way into the fubftance of the fkin. They are called glandulae ce- ruminofae> becaufe they difcharge that matter which is named: cerumen or the wax of the ear. They were firft deferibed by' Steno, though fome have named them after Duverney.T33 AND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. The inner furface of the cutaneous tube is full of fine hairs, between Which lie the orifices of the ceruminous glands. The firfl: place in which we meet with thefe glands is on that part of the convex fide of the cutaneous tube which fupplies the breaks of the cartilaginous meatus. The arteries of the external ear come anteriorly from the arteria temporalis, and pofteriorjy from the occipitalis, both of which are branches of the external carotid. It is proper to obferve here, that the occipital artery communicates with the vertebralis, and thereby with the internal carotid. The veins are rami of the jugularis externa, and the occipital vein ; one of thefe rami communicates, not only with the vena vertebralis, but with the neighbouring lateral finus of the dura mater. The portio dura of the auditory nerve having palled out of the cranium through the foramen ftylo-maftoideum, in the manner that lhall be afterwards deferibed, gives off a ramus, which runs up behind the ear, to the backfide of which it fends feveral filaments; and the trunk of this ramus fends likewife filaments to the meatus and forefide of the ear. The fecond vertebral pair alfo fends a ramus to the ear, the rami- fications of which communicate with thofe of the other ramus from the portio dura. After having deferibed the external parts of the ear, we next proceed to examine its internal bony parts. And here we lhall confider them at fome length, as they are purpofely omitted in the ofleological part of this work. The bony part of the organ of hearing may be divided into four general parts : i. The meatus auditorius externus ; 2. The tympanum ; 3. The labyrinth ; 4. The meatus au- ditorius internus. It may likewife be divided into immove- able or containing parts, which take' in all the four already mentioned; and moveable or contained parts, which are four littleI 134 THE EAR, part VI. little bones lodged in the tympanum, called incus, malleus, Jlapes, and os orbiculare or lenticulare. The external auditory paftage begins by the external audi- tory hole, the edge of which is rough and promiuent; but, backward toward the maftoid proceis, it appears very much Hoped. The paflage itfelf is fomewhat more than half an inch in length, running obliquely from behind forward in a curved dire&ion. Its cavity is almoft oval, but wider at each end than in the middle. It terminates inwardly by an even circular edge, lying in a plane very much inclined, the upper part of it being turned outward, and the inner part inward; fo that the canal is longer on the lower than upper fide. The circular edge is grooved quite round for the attachment of the membrana tympani. In children, this bony canal is wanting, as well as the maf- toid procefs ; and the inner circular edge is a diftinft ring, which, in an advanced age, unites entirely, and becomes one piece with the reft. It is termed the bony circle in infants ; and indeed it is very eafily feparated from all the other parts- It would feem, therefore, that the whole bony canal in adults is only a prolongation of the bony circle in children ; becaufe, even in a more advanced age, the whole canal may without much difficulty be taken out. The circular groove lies between the maftoid procefs and the articular fiflure mentioned in the defcription of the other parts of the tem- poral bone. Tympanum. The tympanum, or drum of the ear, is a ca- vity fomewhat fpherical, or rather hemifpherical, the bottom of it being turned inward, and the mouth joined to the cir- cular groove already mentioned. The remarkable eminences are three : A large tuberofity, lying in the very bottom of the tympanum, a little toward the back part; and a fmall irregular pyramid, fituated above the tuberofity, and a little more backward; its apex is per- foratedChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. *35 forated by a fmall hole, and on one fide of its balls two fmall bony filaments are often found in a parallel fituation ; and indeed it appears that they are feldom wanting, though their tender ftrudlure expofes them to be often broken. In the third eminence is a cavity fituated at the upper and a little toward the anterior part of the bottom of the tympanum. This cavity is part of a half canal, which, in a natural ftate, has one of the mufcles of the malleus lodged in it. The principal cavities in the tympanum are, The opening of the maftoid cells ; the opening of the Euftachian tube; the bony half canal; the feneftra ovalis and rotunda; and to thefe may be added the fmall hole in the pyramid. The openings of the maftoid qells are at the pofterior and upper part of the edge of the tympanum. The cells them- felves which end there are hollowed out in the fiibftance of the maftoid procefs, being very irregular, and full of windings and turnings. The opening of the Euftachian tube is at the anterior and upper part of the edge of the tympanum. It runs from the tympanum toward the pofterior openings of the noftrils and arch of the palate. Its bony portions, of which alone we here fpeak, is hollowed out in the pars petrofa, and is after- wards lengthened out by the fpinal procefs of the os fphe- noides. The maftoid cells, and the Euftachian tube, from their fituation, may in fome meafure be confidered as prolonga- tions of the tympanum. The bony half canal lies immediately above the Euftachian tube, toward the upper fide of die pars petrofa. In a natu- ral ftate, one of the mufcles of the malleus is lodged in it. The feneftra ovalis is a hole of communication between the tympanum and labyrinth. It lies immediately above the tuberofity ; the upper fide of it being a little rounded, the lower a little flattened, and has its longeft diameter from be- forefore backwards. Toward the labyrinth, this opening has a little border quite round it, which renders it narrower at that place than any where elfe. The feneftra rotunda is fomething lefs than the ovalis, and fituated above it toward the lower and pofterior part of the large tuberofity ; the opening of it, which is the orifice of a particular duel in the labyrinth, lying obliquely backward and outward. The hole in the apex of the pyramid is the orifice of a cavity, which may be named the ftnus of this pyramid. OJJicula auditus. The tympanum contains feveral little bones, called the bones cf the ear. They are generally four in number, denominated from fomething to which they are thought to bear a refemblance, viz. incus, malleus, flapes, and os orbiculare or lenticulare. Incus. The incus, or anvil, refembles, in fome meafure, one of the anterior dentes molares, with its roots at a great diftance from each other. It may be divided into a body, and two branches or legs; one of the legs is long, the other fliort. The body is turned forward, the fliort leg backward, and the long leg downward. The body of the incus is broader than it is thick. It has two eminences, and two cavities between them, much in the fame manner as we fee in the crown of the firft crop of the dentes .molares. The fliort leg is thick at its origin; and from thence de- a creafing gradually, it ends in a point. It is fituated horizon- i tally, its point being turned backward, and joined to the edge j of the mafioid opening of the tympanum. The long leg viewed through the external auditory paf- I fage appears to be fituated vertically; but, if we look upon it either on the fore or back fide, we fee it is inclined, the ex- I tremitv of it being turned much more inward than the root or origin. The point of the extremity is a little flatted, bent inward*37 Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. Vol. II. S the inward like a hook, and fometimes a little hollowed like a kind of ear-picker. By this we may difiinguifh the incus of one ear from that of the other, when out of their places : For, turning the fliort leg backward, and the long leg down- ward, if the curvature of this long leg be toward the left hand, the bone belongs to the right ear 5 if toward the right, it belongs to the left ear. Malleus. The malleus, or hammer, is a long bone, with a large head, a fmall neck, an handle, and two procefles ; one in the neck, the other in the handle. The top of the head is confiderably rounded ; and from thence it contracts all the way to the neck. Both head and neck are in an inclined fituation ; and the eminences and cavities of it anfwer to thofe in the body of the incus. The handle is looked upon by fome authors as one of the procefles of the malleus ; and, in that cafe, it is the greateft of the three. It forms an angle with the n<^ck and head ; near which it is fomething broad and fiat, and decreafes gradually towards its extremity. The procefs of the handle, termed by others the fmall or Jhort procefs of the*malleus, terminates in the angle already mentioned, being extended toward the neck, and lying in a firaight line with that fide or border of the handle which is next it. The procefs of the neck, called alio pro.effus gracilis, is, in a natural ftate, very long ; but fo Bender, that it is very eafily broken, efpecially when dry ; which is the reafon why the true length of it was for a long time un- known. It arifes from the neck, and fometimes appears much longer than it really is, by the addition of a fmall dried tendon flicking to it. When the malleus is in its true fituation, the head and neck are turned upward and inward ; the handle down- ward, parallel to the long leg of the incus, but more for- ward •, the procefs of the handle upward and outward, ne-ir• 138 . the ear, Part VI. the fuperior portion of the edge of the tympanum near the centre of which is the extremity of the handle; and the pro- cell 11s gracilis forward, reaching all the way to the articular fiiTure in the os temporis. It is eafy, after what has been faid, to diftinguilh the malleus of the right fide from that of the left. Stapes. The ftapes is a fmall bone, very well denominated from the refemblance it bears to a ftirrup. It is divided into the head, legs, and balls. The head is placed upon a fhort flatted neck ; the top of which is alfo fometimes fiat, fome- times a little hollow. The two legs, taken together, form an arch like that of a fiirrup ; in the concave fide of which is a groove that runs through their w'hole length. One leg is longer, more bent, and a little broader than the other. The balls refembles that of a fiirrup, both in its oval lhape and union with the legs, but it is not perforated. Round its circumference next the legs is a little border, which makes that fide of the balls ap- pear a little hollow. The other fide is pretty fmooth ; and one half of the circumference is more curved than the other. The fubjeft being in an ere& pofture, the fiapes is to be corfidered as lying on its fide, wnth the head turned outward near the extremity of the leg of the incus ; the balls, inward, being fixed in the feneftra ovalis ; the longed leg backward, the fhorted forward; and both in the fame plane. By this fituation, it is eafy to know the fiapes belonging to each ear.- Os orbiculare. The os orbiculare, or lenticular bone, is the fmalleft bone in the body. It lies between the head of the. fiapes and extremity of the long leg of the incus, being arti- culated with each of thefe. In dry bones, it is found very clofely connected, fometimes to the ftapes, fometimes to the incus; and might, in that r { fiate,Chap. I* AND ITS APPENDAGES. 135> {late, be eafily miftaken for an epiphyfis of either of thcfc bones. Thefe four little bones appear to have been unknown to l the Greek anatomifts. It is difficult to fay with certainty ■who difcovered them; but Vefalius is the firft who has i named the malleus and incus ; Arantius or Sylvius, the os (orbiculare; Ingratius is faid to have difcovered the ftapes. Labyrinth. The labyrinth is divided into three parts ; :the anterior, middle, and pofterior. The middle portion i Is termed vejlibulum, the anterior cochlea, and the pofterior labyrinth in particular; which comprehends the three femi- (circular canals. * # The cochlea lies forward and inward toward the extremity cof the pars petrofa ; the femicircular canals backward and coutward toward the bafts of the procefs ; and the veftibulum tbetween the other two. i Vejlibulum. The veftibulum is an irregular round cavity, lefs than the tympanum, and fttuated more inward, and a little more forward. Thefe two cavities are in a manner fet cback to back, with a common partition between them, per- forated in the middle by the feneftra ovalis, by which the ca- vvities communicate with each other. The cavity of the vef- tibulum is likewife perforated by feveral other holes ; on the back fide by the five orifices of the femicircular canals ; on ;lthe lower part of the fore fide by a hole, which is one of the paflages of the cochlea ; and, on the fore fide, toward the internal meatus auditorius, oppofite to the feneftra ovalis, by >a number of very fmall holes, for the pafiage of the nerves ; on the upper fide there are only fmall pores. Semicircular canals. The femicircular canals are only three in number; one vertical, one oblique, and one horizontal; or by fome they are called vertical fuperior, vertical pojlerior, ind horizontal or external. The vertical canal is fituatecl iranfverfely with refpeft to the pars petrofa, the cbnvex fide ofTHE EAR, 140 Part VI. of it being turned upward. The oblique canal lies farther back than the former, and runs parallel to the length of the procefs, the convex fide being turned backward, with one extremity upward, the other downward. The fuperior ex- tremity of this canal meets and lofes itfelf in the internal ex- tremity of the former. The curvature and extremities of the horizontal canal are almoft on a level; the curvature lying obliquely backward, and the extremities forward, ending under thofe of the ver- tical canal, but a little nearer each other, the inner being al- moft in the middle fpace between the extremities of the oblique canal. The horizontal canal is generally the leaft of the three ; the oblique is often, and the vertical fometimes, the greateftj and fometimes thefe two are equal. All the three canals are larger than a femicircle, forming nearly three quarters ; they are broader at the orifices than in the middle. Thefe orifi- ces open into the back-fide of the veftibulum, and are but five in number, becaufe two of them open into each other ; fo that, in the pofterior part of the veftibulum, two appear toward the in fide, and three toward the outfide. In children, the fubftnnce of thefe canals is compaft, while that which furrounds them is fpongy. Hence .they may be eafily feparated from the reft of the pars petrofa. In adults, all the parts of the bone are fo folid, that thefe canals appear only like paflages formed in a piece of ivory. From this de- fcription, it is eafy to diftinguiih the right labyrinth from the left. Cochlea. The cochlea is a fort of fpiral body with two dufls, formed in the anterior part of the pars petrofa, fome- what refembling the fliell of a fnail. The parts to be diftin- guifhed in it, in its true fituation, are, the bafis; the apex ; the fpiral lamina, or half feptum, by which its cavity is di- vided into two half canals ; the modiolus or fpindle, round whichI Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 141 which the cochlea turns ; and, laftly, the orifices and union of the two dutts. The bafis is turned dire&ly inward toward the internal foramen auditorium ; the apex outward ; and the axis of the modiolus is nearly horizontal; but, in all of them, allowance mult be made for the obliquity of the pars petrofa in which they lie. The bafis of the cochlea is gently hollowed; and, toward the middle, perforated by feveral fmall holes. The modiolus is a kind of fliort cone, with a very large bafis, which is the middle of the bafis of the cochlea. Through its whole length runs a double fpinal groove, which, through a microfcope, fhews a great number of pores. The cochlea makes about two turns and a half from the bafis to the apex; and the two half canals, being firmly united together through their whole courfe, form a half feptum, called lamina fpiralis ; which muft not be confounded, as it often is, with the com- plete feptum in the recent fubjedl. One edge of the lamina fpiralis is ftrongly joined to the modiolus, being thicker there than in any other place ; whereas the other edge is termina- ted all round by a very thin border, lying in the middle ca- vity of the cochlea. In the natural ftate, the other half of the feptum is membranous, and completes the partition be- tween the two canals. The two half canals turn jointly about the modiolus; one being fituated toward the bafis of the cochlea, the other toward the apex ; for which reafon we have always called one of them internal, the other external. The fpiral or volute of the cochlea begins at the lower part of the veftibule; runs from thence forward to the top, then backward down to the bottom, afterward upward and forward; and fo on from the bafis, which is turned inward, to the apex which is turned outward. From this defcription, it is eafy to know to which ear any cochlea belongs when we fee it prepared: It likewife teaches us, that, in the right cochlea, the dire&ion of the turnings is the fame as in gar-THE EAR, 74 a . Part VI* The den fnalls, and almoft all the other common fhells; but, in the left cochlea, the turnings are in a contrary direction. The two half canals communicate fully at the apex of the cochlea. Their feparate openings are towards the balls, one of them being immediately into the lower part of the forc- fide of the veftibulum, the other into the feneflra rotunda. Thefe two openings are feparated by a particular turning, which fhall be afterwards defcribed. The meatus auditorus interm/s, is on the backfide of the pars petrofa, in fome meafure behind the veftibuie and bafis of the cochlea. It is a kind of blind hole, divided into two foffulae, one large, the other fmall. The large one lies loweft, and ferves for the portio mollis of the auditory nerve or feventh pair. The finall one is uppermoft, and is the open- ing of a fmall dutft, through which the portio dura of the fame nerve paffes. The inferior foffula is full of little holes, which, in the natural date, are filled with nervous filaments s of the portio mollis, that go to the veftibuie, to the femicir- cular canals, and to thofe of the cochlea. It is this folTula which forms the fhallow cavity at the bafis of the fpindle of the cochlea. The paffage for the portio dura of the auditory nerve runs behind the tympanum, and its external orifice is termed foramen fylomafoideum. It begins by the fmall foflula, and pierces from within outward the upper part of the pars petrofa, making there an angle or curvature j from thence it is inclined backward behind the fmall pyramid of the tym- panum, and runs down to the foramen ftylomaftoideum, through which it goes out, and is diftributed in the manner to be hereafter defcribed. It communicates likewife by a hole with the finus of the pyramid, and lower down by ano- ther hole with the tympanum. At the upper part of the pars petrofa it is covered with a bony lamina, although forne- times it has been found open above.Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 143 The foft parts of the internal ear are chiefly the membra- na tympani, the periofteum of the tympanum, and of the officula auditus, labyrinth, and of all its cavities, the mem- brana mafloidea interna, the mufdes of the officula, the parts which complete the formation of the Euflachian tube, the arteries, veins, and nerves. We are, however, under a ne- ceffity of beginning by the tuba Euflachiana, for two rea- fons; firft, becaufe the bony parts of that tube are but of very fmall ufe for the knowledge of its whole ftruflure and compofition ; and, fecondly, becaufe we are obliged to men- tion it in defcribing the mufcles. The duEltis aims palatinus, or Euflachian tube, as was ob- ferved in the defcription of the Ikeleton, is a canal or du<T which goes from the tympanum to the pofterior openings of the nares, or nafal fofl'ae, and toward the arch of the palate ; it is dug in the apophyfis perrofa along the carotid canal, and it is lengthened out by the fpinal apophyfis of the os fphenoi- i dale. In its natural ftate, this duel reaches from the cavity of the tympanum to the root or fuperior part of the internal ala of the apophyfis pterygoides; and through this whole courfe it confills of two portions, one entirely bony, and the other partly bony, partly cartilaginous, and partly membra- nous. The bony portion lies through its whole length immedi- ately above the Allure of the glenoid or articular cavity of the os temporis, and terminates at the meeting of the fpinal apophyfis of the os Iphenoides with the pars petrofa of the os temporis. The other or mixed portion reaches in the fame direction from this place to the internal ala of the apophyfis ptery- goides, or to the pofierior and outer edge of the nares. But to form a more exaft idea of it, it will be proper to confider it as divided into four parts, two fuperior and two inferior. ThePart VI. 144 THE EAR, The two upper parts or quarters are bony; and of thefe the innermoft is formed by the fide of the apophyfis petrofa, the outermoft by the fide of the apophyfis fpinalis of the os fphenoides. Of the two inferior parts, the internal, or that next the os fphenoides, is cartilaginous; and the external, or that next the pars petrofa, membranous. The Euftachian tube, thus formed, is very narrow next the ear, but grows gradually wider, efpecially near the pofterior nares, where the inner cartilaginous fide terminates by a pro- minent edge, and the outer fide joins that of the neighbour- ing noftril. The cavity of the tube is lined by a membrane like that of the internal nares, of which it appears to be a continuation ; and on the prominent edge, this membrane is confiderably increafed in thicknefs, reprefenting a kind of half pad. The fituation of the two tubes is oblique, their pofterior extremities at the ears being at a greater diftance than the anterior at the nares ; and the convex tides of the prominent edges are turned toward each other. The openings of the tubes are oval at this place, as is likewife their whole cavity, efpecially that of the mixed portion. The membrana tympani is a thin, tranfparent, fiattifh pel- licle, the edge of which is round, and ftrongly fixed in the orbicular groove which divides the bony meatus of the ex- ternal ear from the tympanum or barrel. This membrane is very much ftretched or very tenfe, and yet not perfectly flat: For on the fide next the meatus externus it has a fmall hol- lownefs, which is pointed on the middle ; and on the fide next the tympanum it is gently convex, and alfo pointed in the middle. This membrane is fituated obliquely, the upper part of its circumference being turned outward, and the lower part in- ward, fuitably to the direftion of the bony groove already mentioned. It confifts of feveral very fine laminae, clof'ely unitedAND ITS APPENDAGES. ns Vol. II. T pituitaria. Chap; I. united together.' The external lamina is in fome meafure a produftion of the ikin and cuticula of the external meatus; for they may be pulled at the fame time like the finger of a glove. The internal lamina is a continuation of the periof- teum of the tympanum; and, when the membrane has been macerated in water, each of thele lamina may be fubdivided into feveral others. In very young children, this membrane is covered on the outfide by a thick mucilaginous web. The depreffion in the middle of the membrana tympani, is caufed by the adhefion of the malleus, the handle of which is clofely joined to the infide of the membrane, from the upper part of the circumference all the way to the centre, to which the end of the handle is fixed. This handle leems to lie in a very fine membranous duplicature, by means of which it is tied to the membrana tympani, and which fcrves it for a periofteum. The malleus is accompanied with blood vef- fels, which run in a radiated manner from the centre to the circumference of the membrane; but thefe are beft feen in the foetus. The periofteum of the tympanum, or barrel of the ear, produces that of the fmall bones; and it may be made vifi- ble by means of anatomical injections, which difcover capil- lary veflels very diftindtly ramified on the furface of the ofti- cula. It is likewife continued over the two feneftrae, and enters the Euftachian tube, where it is loft in the inner mem- brane of that duCt. The cellulae maftoidae are very irregular cavities in the fubftance of the maftoide apophyfis, which communicate with each other, and have a common opening towards the infide, and a little above the pofterior edge of the orbicular groove. 1 hefe cells are lined by a fine membrane, which is partly a continuation of the periofteum of the tympanum, and partly feems to be of a follicular ftruClure, like a kind of membranaTHE EAR, Part Vt pituitaria. The maftoid opening is oppofite to the fmall opening of the Euftachian tube, but a little higher. 1 he ligaments of the oflicula may be looked upon as con- tinuations of the periofteum. I'he incus is tied by a ftrong fhort ligament, fixed in the point of the Ihort leg to the edge of the maftoid opening. Between the incus and malleus we find a fmall thin cartilage The malleus is connected through the whole length of its handle to the infide of the membrana tympani, in the manner already laid. The malleus has two little mufcles, one anterior, and one internalj and the (tapes has one mufcle. See Innes on the Mufcles. The internal mufcle of the malleus, called tenftr tympani, is very flefiiy and diftindl. It lies along the infide of the Euftachian tube, and is inferted in the neck of the malleus, above the fmall apophyfis, advancing likewife as far as the handle. Vefalius firft obferved, and afterwards Euftachius. more particularly defcribed this mufcle. The anterior mufcle of the malleus, called, from its ufe, laxator tympani, is faid by fome to be flefhy, long, and thin. It runs along the outfide of the Euftachian tube, to which it adheres very clofely through its whole length, and is inferted in the long thin apophyfis of the malleus. It is partly ac- companied by a nerve, which forms what is called the chorda tympani, as we (hall lee hereafter. Haller denies the exiftence of mufcular fibres in this fubftance. Sabatier defcfibcs it, t bur doubts if it be really mufcular. Caecilius Folius is faid to have been the dilcoverer. A third mufcle has by fome been defcribed under the came of external or fuperior mufcle of the malleus; but this is much Ids diltindt than thofe already mentioned. It is laid to arile from the internal fuperior and pofterior part of the meatus externus, and to be fixed by a fmall tendon to the neck of the malleus. Neither Haller nor Sabatier have been ablei Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 14* ; able to difcovcr mufcular fibres in it. CafTcrius firft deferi- I bed it. The mufcle of the ftapes is fhort and thick, and lies con- cealed within the imall bony pyramid at the bottom of the 1 tympanum. It runs forward ro be inlerted in the neck of 1 the (tapes, on the fide of the longcti and molt crooked leg 1 of that bone. The three parts of the labyrinth, that is, the veftibulum, l femicircular canals, and cochlea, are lined by a fine periofr teum, which is continued over all the fides of their cavities, < and (huts the two fentlfrac of the tympanum. Upon this fine periofteum the vell'cls and nerves are difperfed. The f'emicire ular canals are Amply lined by a periofteum adhering to their inner luifaces without any particular mem- i branous bands. The t\yo half canals of the cochlea are lined i in this manner; the periofteum of the two fides of the bony 1 fpiral lamma advances beyond the edge of that lamina, and I forms a Jir embranous duplicature, which, extending to the 1 oppofite fide, completes the fpiral feptum. The feptum feparates the two half canals from the bafis to 1 the apex ; but there it leaves a little opening, by which the I Email extremities of the half canals communicate with each Other. The large extremity of the external half canal ends ! by an oblique turn in the feneftra rotunda, which is fliut by a continuation of the periofteum of that canal. The large : extremity of the other half canal opens into the veftibulum ; and thefe tWo extremities are entirely feparated by a continu- . ation of the periofteum. The whole internal cavity of the labyrinth is filled with a watery fluid fecreted from the veflels, which are difperfed up- on the periofteum. 1 his fluid tranfmits to the nerves the vibrations it receives from the membrane fituated between . fiie tympanum and labyrinth. Th§THE EAR, 145 Part VI’. The fuperfluous part of this fluid is fuppofed to pafs off through two imall canals called the aqueduEis of Cotunnius, from the difcoverer, an ingenious phyiician at Naples. One of thefe du&s is fent off from the cochlea, at the under part of the fcala tympani, near the feneffra rotunda ; it terminates by a wide triangular opening within the cranium, under the meatus internus. The beginning of this du£t was known to Duverney, Caffebohm, and Morgagni; but they conlidcred it as a paffage for an artery and a vein. It is lined internally with the dura mater, which is connected with the pei iofteum of the cochlea. The other duff goes off’ under the termina- tion of the common canal in the veffibule. The orifice of this ivas firtt difcoveied by Caflebohm, and afterwards by Morgagni, who has defcribed it ; but is unacquainted with its ufe. From this place the dudt aicends, and terminates by a triangular opening between ihe layers of the dura mater, at the back part of the pars petrola, under the middle of its upper edge. It is all'o lined by a production of the dura ma- ter, which may be traced to the veffibule. For a full account of thefe duCts, fee an excellent Diflertation by Dr Meckel of Berlin. All the periofteum of the internal ear, efpecially that of the ofiicula and tympanum, is in children no more than a mucilage ; and in them likewife the membrana tympani is thick, opaque, and covered with a whitilh finny mater. Through the whole extent of the perioffeum of the inter- nal ear, efpecially on that of the oflicula, femicircular canals, and half-canals of the cochlea, we difeover a vafl: number of blood-veflels, not only Wy anatomical injeClions, but in inflam- mations, and even without the help of a microfcope. The arteries come partly from the internal and external carotids, and partly from the arteria bafilaris, which is a continuation of the vertebralis, the fmall capillary ramifications of which may be obferved to accompany the auditory nerve throughAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. the internal foramen auditorium Two veins carry the prin- cipal part of the blood from the labyrinth ; one goes off from the cochlea, near its aqueduft, and ends in the lateral finus ; the other Ijes near the aqueduft of the vedibule, and carries the blood from that cavity, and from the femicircular canals, into the beginning of the internal jugular vein, by a triangu- lar opening The portio mollis of the auditory nerve ends, by its trunk, at the great foffula of the internal auditory hole, from whence the filaments pafs through leveral lmall hobs in the bafis of the cochlea, to be difiributed through die cochl.a, the vefiti- bule, and the femicircular canals. See Monro on the Ner- vous Syftem, Tab. XXIX. XXX. XXXI. Hie portio dura runs firft of all into the frnall foffula of the foramen auditorium internum, then paffes through the whole bony duff called aquaeduElus Fallopii, and comes out again through the ftylo-maltoid hole of the os temporis. In this couri'e it communicates with the dura mater on the upper or anterior fide of the apophyfis petrofa, at the place where the bony duct is interrupted. Having reached behind the frnall pyramid in the bottom of the tympanum, this nerve (ends a finall filament to the mufcle of the ftapes; and, a little before it goes out by the ftvlo-maftoid hole, it gives off another more confiderabie fila- ment, which enters the tympanum from behind forward, paffes between the long leg of the incus and handle of the malleus, and afterwards runs crofs the whole breadth of the tympanum a little obliquely, and goes out at the (ame place at which the tendon of the anterior mufcle of the malleus enters. This frnall nerve is generally called chorda tympani, becaufe in its paffage through the tympanum it has been compared to the cord of a drum. Having left the cavity of the inter- nal ear, it advances toward one fide of the bafis of the tongue, ivherePvt VI, S5» TKE EAR, where having joined the nervm lingualis of the fifth pair, it is conlidered as a kinu of rtcirreut; bur the remaining part of its courfe mull be referred to the deicripuon of the tongue. The portio dura of the auditory nerve having pafTed through the foramen ftylo-maitOid-um, is diltribured in the manner to be afterwards mentioned in the dci'cription of the nerves; and we ought very carefully to obferve its different communications with the branches and rami of the nerves of the fifth pair, with the fympatheticus medius or eighth pair, with the fecond pair of cervical nerves, and with the nervi fub-occipitales, or tenth pair of the medulla oblongata, &c. Hearing. As the fenfe of hearing perceives the elaftie tremors or impulfions of the air, fo we oblerve the fenfitive organ of the ear to be compoled in a different manner from that of any of the other fenfes. It confiits, for the moft part, either of hard bones, or elaftie cartilages and mem- branes, which are the moft exquifitely enabled to receive and communicate the neceffary tremors. As we have already delcribed the feveral parts of this com- plicated organ, we (hall proceed to its phyfiology. The fonorous waves of the air flow into the external car, which, from principles of mechanics, it mult of courfe colledk together, Elaftie air receives, and is the principal means of transferring fonorous tremors; for found is increaftd in con- denfed air, and is loft in vacuo. Other bodies, however, have the property of conveying found ; and Dr Monro has fhewn, in his Phyfiology of Fillies, that water conveys found nearly as quickly as the atmofphere. The transferring me- dium receives thefe tremors, either from lome body ftriking againft it, or from the medium itfelf colliding agninft ano- ther body, or iaftly, from the collifion of two bodies againft: each other. Every particle of the body which produces {dundj ought to tremble or vibrate in fuch a manner as alter- natelyChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. t$i natcly to elevate and deprefs its plain furface into the forrA of arches or curves, fo as to produce the above mentioned fonorous waves. Thefe ofcillations or impnlfions of the air are required to luccecd each other with a certain velocity j and, in order to render them audible, they muft not be fewer than 30 in a fecond. Acute founds arc, in general, produced from bodies that arc hard, brittle, and violently (hook or ftruck ; but grave founds from bodies of a contrary nature. Thole founds, in general, are called acute, which arc produced from more nu- merous tremors in an equal time ; and thole obtufe or grave, which are produced from few tremors. As to any medium between acute and grave lounds, there is none but what is arbitrary. Cords, or other bodies, that yield the fame num- ber of vibrations in a given time, are laid to be in unifon ; if one cord vibrates twice while another vibrates once, it pro- duces an oElaVe ; if one vibrates thrice while the other vibrates twice, it produces a fifth; and other proportions between the number of vibrations produce different tones or notes. Shorter cords produce (harper tones; and the contrary j and the tenfions being the fame, the fharpnefs of the tones Will be inverfely proportional to their lengths. The lengths being the fame, the fharpnefs will be in the fubduplicate proportion of the flrctching force. Experiments to this pur- pole are very eafily made with a monochord, or a feries of cords ftrctched with weights. The found thus produced, whether acute or grave, ftrong or weak, is carried through the air with a velocity equal to about 1142 feet in a fecond, or above 13 miles in a minute 5 1 and that with an uniform velocity, without abating in the larger uiftances; but a contrary wind, caufing ihe vibrations to extend more llowly, retards the progreffion of found about one-twelfth of its velocity. Denfity and drynefs of the air the iwaudj, ae « rarcfa^Uou and modlure of the ate , If (Tea152 THE EAR, Part VI. leffen it. Hence, in fummer time, founds move fwifter; and in Guinea it has been obferved to pafs at the rate of 1170 feet in a fecond. The found, thus every way extended, meets with certain particles in all adjacent bodies, even in water and mercury, to which it communicates fimilar tremors or vibrations; not only to fuch as are in unifon with the original tone, but alfo to others. From hence it is, that every found which we hear is a mixture of the original tone, produced by the trem- bling body, in conjunction with fecondary tones generated from the elaflic tremors of the furrounding bodies. The ftrength of found is increafed, if one audible or primary tone follows the other lo clofely, that their fuccefiion cannot be diftinguifhed by the ear j but, if they follow each other fo {lowly as to be diftinguifhable by the ear, they produce an echo j but, to produce this, requires an interval of fix thirds of time, or the diftance of 55 feet between the echoing body and1 the ear. The fonorous waves of the elaftic air, being driven into the cartilaginous funnel of our ear, are repelled and collected to- gether, by alternate reflections from its elaftic fides, into the cavity of the concha, whence they proceed through the au- ditory paffage j where their force is increafed, (in proportion to the difference between the furface of the outer ear and the area of the paffage), by being contracted into fo narrow a compafs. They are likewife increafed by new founds from the percuffion of the elaftic cartilages and hard bones, which mix imperceptibly with the primitive founds. The bottom or end of the auditory paffage is terminated internally by the membrana tympani; which Dr Haller fays is not naturally perforated, as far as he has been able to difeo- ver; and that the tranfiniffion of tobacco-fmoke from the mouth through the ear is fabulous. Authors in general agree with him now in the former of thefe opinions; but that an accidentalAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. *53 accidental opening has fometimes happened, and that the fmoke of tobacco has been blown through it during life, is certain. Upon the furface of this membrane, and more efpe- cially upon its conical cavity pointing inward, the fonorou3 waves ftrike, after they have received their lad reflexions from the auditory paflage, by which the elaftic fabric of this membrane is forced into ofcillation. The membrane is ftretchqd over the tympanum, con- taining the little bones to which the imall muf'cles of the internal ear are fixed. By means of the tenfor of the mal- leus, the membrane of the tympanum is the better difpo- fed to hear weak founds; and the other mulcle ferves to moderate thofe that are too violent, by drawing the malleus from the incus; by which means the propagation of the fo- norous tremors is interrupted. If the m&mbrane of the tym- panum be broke, or the bones of hearing diflocated, the per- fon becomes at firft hard of hearing, and afterwards, fays Dr Haller, perfectly deaf. There have been indances, however, where the membrana tympani has been partly deftroyed, and yet the perf'on has retained the fenfe of hearing, though lefs diftinXly than before. The malleus returns the tremors imprefled upon the mem- brane of the tympanum to the incus, which fends it inwards' to the next bones. The Jlapes, aptly enough fo called from its figure, lies in- clined, and is covered by its own mufcle, which feems to draw the ftapes, that it may lie higher up, under the back part of the feneftra ovatis, and pafs out of it before. Thus the nervous pulp of the veftibuium is prefled by the balls of the ftapes, and by the 2ir of the tympanum •, and the Eujla- ehian tube, by the aftion of the circumjacent mufcles, may be comprefled and clofed, and probably a little relaxed and. opened again, by the circumflex mufcle of the muveabk pa- late. By this canal the inlpired air enters into the tyrapa- Vol. II. U runt,THE EAR, 4 Part VI. num, to be clianged or renewed ; and it alfo ferves to convey the mucus that covers the little bones and the tympanum : Nor is it at all improbable that the air enters by this tube, to fupport the tympanum when it is preflcd inward by the more violent founds ; for founds themfelves, received into the mouth, are this way conveyed to the organ of hearing. In infpiration, the air prelfes the membrane of the tympanum outward ; and from thence proceeds that clafhing or whif- pering noife, by which the hearing is obfeured, in yawning ; for then the air entering more abundantly through the cavity of the tube, to the tympanum, relifts the tremors of the ex- ternal air. With refpedt to. the nerve which is diftributed through the veftibulum and femicircular canals, there is no doubt but it is ftruck by the tremors of the external air, propagated to the rtapes ; from whence the tremors immediately pafs through the feneftra ovaiis, to prefs upon the naked pulp of the nerve ; and it is probable that the fpiral plate of the cochlea, fpread full of nerves, is agitated with tremors from the ofcillations of the membrane of the tympanum, by which the air in the cavity of the tympanum is agitated, fo as to prefs the membrane of the feneftra rotunda, which again agitates the air contained in the cochlea. The preceding conje&ure is plauftole ; fince the fpiral plate9 form a triangle, with a very acute vertex, on whole furfaee it is polhble that a number of tranfverle nervous cords may be flretched ; and thefc cords, bei"g of different lengths, will be in unifon with a variety of tone«, fo as to tremble ifochronally with them ; namely, the fongeft cords in the balls of the cochlea with grave founds; and the fhorteft cords nearer the tip or apex, with lharper founds. Whether are founds perceived in the middle femicircular canals, fince thele alone are found in all clalE s of animal- ? Are they de- tuned in thefo canals, in the cochlea, and by the membrane lulpcndedI Chap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. 155 fufpended through the veftibulum ? This feems probably the cafe. From what has been laid, -it appears that the elaftic waves or tremors of the air come through the outer ear and audi- tory pa{Tage, to the membrane of the tyn panum; wh h being injured, and not repaired, the hearing is in a great ftieamre ddtroyed. Ibis feeuis to be Itretchecl, for hear; g weak found-, by the mulcles ot tire malleus. From this membrane the found is conveycu through the fmail bones to the veftibulum 5 for, thele bones being ueltroyed, the hear- ing is again abohflicd. The bony fides ot the veftibulum, by thtir trcmulation, agitate the fmail quantity of aqueous fluid furrounding the nervous pulp. It leems to be (truck by the :neivous pulp iulpended m the veftibulum, and that ti emor ifeem to be continued through the continuous pulp of the ^cochlea and feinicircubr canals. Of more than this we are mot certain •, but, by undoubted experiments, tremors, and .even elaftic founds, communicate themfelves bv the internal lEuftachian tube, and through all the bones of the fkull, lb as :t0 impreis their force upon the auditory nerve. The diflindfion of founds proceeds from the celerity of tthe tremors excited in the hearing nerve, according as they Ifucceed each other more fwiftly or flowly. It is nor nectfla- I ry that the mind fliould number them ; it is fufficient that flie perceive thtir numbers to be different, and that this dif- .'f re-nce exctes a variation in <he thoughts and ideas thence arifii g. Does the harmony or agreeablenefs of founds arif'c from the number of parts founding together in unilon ? ■ and does the mind number the degrees or confonance, lo as : to pieale herleif in a majority of tnem ? Thefe are quef- tions denied by the molt expert muilcians, who un.ke it ap- ( pear that there is an agreeablenefs, and that very confider- ible, in iounds approaching the leaff to a confonance, ami *1 which are in a proportion very difficult to determine. Why dqPart VI. 156 THE MOUTH, • * do founds often become too fharp for the ear ? becaufe our auditory nerves feem to be fo ftrained upon the fpiral plates, as to be in clanger of breaking. Thus, drinking glaflbs are broken by fbarp founds ; and the hearing is fometimes almoft loft for a while by the violently thrill wiiiftlings of the inha- bitants of the Canary iflands. Sect. V. The Mouth, &c. Introduction. The word mouth may have two ftgnifications; For, firft, it means the tranfverfe flit between the nofe and chin, formed by the lips ; and, fecondly, it exprefles the in- ternal cavity, of which this tranfverfe flit is the external opening. For this realon, the mouth may be diftinguilhed into external and internal; and the parts of which it conlifts may likewife come under the fame two general heads. The bony parts are the olia maxillaria, olTi palati, maxilla inferior, and the teeth: To thefe we may add the os hyoides, and the upper vertebrae of the neck. The external parts of the mouth are, the two lips, one upper, the other under ; the borders or red parts of the lips; the corners or commiflures of the lips ; the foflula of the up- per lip, the bafts of the under lip; the chin ; the bafts of the chin j the fkin; the beard ; and even the cheeks, as being the lateral parts of the mouth in general, and of the lips in particular. The internal parts of the mouth are, the gums, palate, feptum palati, uvula, amygdalae, the tongue, the membrane which lines the whole cavity of the mouth, the falival du£fs and glands, and the bottom of the mouth. We might like- wife reckon, among the internal parts of the mouth, all the mufcles that have any relation to it, as thofe of the lips, of the tongue, of the uvula, of the feptum palati, §cc.; and to thefeChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. i57 thefe might be added the mufcles of the lower jaw, and of the os hyoides. § i. The Cheeks, Lips, and Gums. The cheeks and lips form the fides and entry of the cavity of the mouth. They are formed in general by the connec- tion of feveral fiefhy portions of different breadths, fixed round the convex fides of the two jaws, covered on the out- fide with the fkin and fat, and lined on the infide by a glan- dular membrane. Befides all this, the lips feem likewile to have a fat loft fppngy fubftance in their compofition, which fivells and 1'ubfides on certain occafions, independently of the action of the mufcles belonging to them. The fubftance which forms the red border of the lips is very different from the reft of the fkin, being a collection of very fine, long, villous papillae, clofely connedled together, and covered by a fine membrane, which feems to be both a continuation of the epidermis, and of that pellicle which covers the glandular membrane of the cavity of the mouth. This fubftance is extremely fenfibie, and very painful when the outer membrane is by any accident deftroyed. The in- ternal membrane of the upper lip forms a fmall middle frae- num above the firft dentes inciforii. The gums are that reddifh fubftance which covers the two fides of the whole alveolary border of both jaws, infinu- ates itfelf between all the teeth, furrounds the collar of each tooth in particular, and adheres very ftrongly to them. Therefore the outer and inner gums are continuous, and both together form juft as many openings as there are teeth. The fubftance of the gums is of a very lingular ftrudlure, refembling, in fome meafure, the texture of a hat, fuppofed to be very compact and elaftic. It is not immediately fixed to the bones of the jaws, but by the intervention of the peri.- ofteum.Part VL 15S THE MOUTH, ©ffeum, with which it is perfectly united ; and it is covered by a fi"e flrong even membrane, which (ticks very dole to the iubltance of the gums; and leems to be a continuation of that thin membrane which goes to the lips and cheeks, and of that which goes to the tongue The arteries which go to the lips, cheeks, and gums, are ramifications of tlie exrernal carotid, and chief! of thofe branches called tnaxillares externae et internal. The veins arc ramifications of the external jugular. The nerves of thefe parts come from the maxdlaris fupe- rior and inferior, which are branches of the fifth pair ; and alfo from the portio dura of the auoitory nerve, or fympa- theticus minimus; the ramifications of which are ipread in great numbers on all thefe parts, and communicate :n a lin- gular manner with the nerves of the fifth pair in feverai places, as may be feen in the Delcription of the Nerves. The mufeies of the lips are commonly divided into com- mon and proper. The common mufcles are thofe which end at the angles or commiffures of the two lips ; and thofe arc proper which are fixed in one lip only ; which are again (ub- divided into the proper mufcles of the upper lip, and proper mufcles of the under lip All thefe muicles have particular names ; fome of them are taken from the peculiar co forma- tion of the niulcles, fome from the inlertions or fituation, and fome from the ufes attributed to them, as has been al- ready defcribed. i'he mufcles may be enumerated in the following order : Levator anguli oris; levator labii luperions alaeque naii ; deprellbr labii luperioris alaeque nafi; depreffor anguli oris ; depreffor labii inferioris; levator labii inferiors ; buconator; zygomaticus major, zygomaticus. minor, orbicularis oris. Use Vol. I. The common mufcles of the lips either draw both corners cf the mouth at once, or only one at a time, according to the-I Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. ISP j the different direction of their fibres. T he proper muffles pull the different parts of the lips in which they are inferred. The buccinators, in particular, may ferve to move the food i in maftication. An entire treatife might be written on the lalmofl innumerable combinations of the different motions of -all thele mufcles, according to the different paflions, and ac- cording to the different potiures in which a man may put his fface. None are more affc&ing than thofe produced by the tcutanei alone, efpecially in wetping. By ther inlenions in : the bone of the lower jaw, they draw up the lower part of the integuments of the neck, and thole of the bread next to i thefe; for they cannot move the jaw. In old people, and : in thole who are very much emaciated, thefe mufees may be : perceived by the eye, under the chin, and on the neck. § 2. The Palate, Uvula, fsV. The palate is that arch or cavity of the mouth, fnrrounded anteriorly by the alveolary edge and teeth of the upper jaw, ;and reaching from thence to the great opening of the pha- irynx. The arch is partly loltd and immoveab e, and partly ifoft and moveable. The folid portion is that which is bound- i ed by the teeth, beirg formed by the two offa ma-xfllaria and I two offa pnlati Tiie lof portion lies behind the other, and irons backward like a veil fixed to the edge of the offi pilati, being formed partly by the common membrane of the whole arch, and pnrdy hy lev era 1 mufcular fahicuh, &c The memlti'ie that covers aM this cavitv, is continued with t the memorane of the nares, upon the inner lurface of the h pharynx. It is very thick l^t with final 1 glands, known under the name of palatine, the. orifice's of which are r ot fo ienlible as in the phary x and especially in the rugae of its fuperior portion, where Mr. H-ifter obferved a eoufiderabfe orifice, aud a canal proportioned t# that orifice, which he could eafi-t THE MOUTH, Part VI. ]y inflat with air. Small duels of the fame kind with what has now been mentioned, may be fuppofed to lie along the middle line or raphe of the arch of the palate, and along the alveolary edge, becaufe of fome fmall tubercles or points which appear there. This membrane, together with that of the pofterior nares, forms, by an uninterrupted continuation, the anterior and pofterior lurface of the foft portion of the palate, or velum palati, fo that the mufcular fafciculi of this portion lie in the duplicature of a glandular membrane. The velum or valvula palati, terminates below by a loofe floating edge, reprefenting an arch fituated tranfverfely above the balls or root of the tongue. The higkeft portion or top of this arch fuftains a fmall, foft, and irregularly conical glandular body, fixed by its balls to the arch, and its apex, which hangs down without adhering to any thing, is called uvula. On each fide of the uvula there are two mufcular half arches, called columnae Jepti palati. They are all joined to the uvula by their upper extremities, and difpofed in fuch a man- ner as that the lower extremities of the two which lie on the fame fide, are at a little diftance from each other, and fo as that one half arch is anterior, the other pofterior, an oblong triangular fpace being left between them, the apex of which is turned toward the balls of the uvula. The two half arches on one fide, by joining the like half arches on the other fide, form the entire arch of the edge of the feptum. The pofterior half arches run by their/ upper extremities, more direiftly toward the uvula than the anterior. The anterior half arches have a continuation with the fides of the bafis of the tongue, ancl the pofterior with the fides of the pharynx. At the lower part of the fpace left between the lateral half arches on the fame fide, two glands are titu- ated, termed amygdalae, which fhall be deferibed hereafter, ' together iChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. i6i « together with the glandular ftrufture of the uvula, among the other glands of the mouth. The half arches are chiefly made up of feveral fl it flelhy portions, almoft in the fame manner with the body of the ‘feptum. The membrane which covers them is thinner than the other parts of it towards the palate, pharynx, and tongue. Each portion is a diffindi mufcle, the greateff part of which terminates by one extremity in the fuhflance of the leptuin and of the half arches, and by the other extremity in parts different from thefe. As anatomifls uted formerly to aferibe all thefe mufcles, as far as they knew them, to the uvula, without any regard to the feptum, they termed them in general either ptery.jlapby- liniy or peri-ftaphylim. The laft part of thefe two compound words exprtfles the uvula : The firft part of the firft word is an abridgement of ptery-goides, and exprefles the i ifertion of thefe mufcles ; but the firit part of the fecond word figni- fies no more than round, or about, gcc. We might make ule of the term periJlaphylinus as a general denomination for the mufcles belonging to the feptum, and then add the other terms, of whioh thefe -names have been made up by modern writers. But the reader will find it more agreeable to ufe the names exprelfed in the treatife on the mufcles already described. Of the mufcles of the palate we have f und the conftric- tores ifthmi, faucium, palato phyryngei, tenlores palati, leva- lores palati, and azygos uvulae. The feptum palati ferves to conduft the lacrymal lymph, and that which is continually Wledted on the arch of the palate, into the pharynx. It ferves for a valve to hinder what we (wallow, and efpecially what we drink, from return- ing by the nofe. § 3' Vol. IE XPart VI. 162, THE MOUTH, § 3. The Tongue. The tongue is a foft flefhy body, which fills all that part of . the cavity of the mouth that is furrounded by the alveolary border and teeth of the lower jaw, and extends ftill farther back. All this lpace is therefore in a manner the mouid and meafure of the length and breadth of the tongue, as well as of its thicknefs and figure. Tile tongue is divided into the bafis and point ; the up- per and under tides ; and the lateral portions or edges. The bafis is the pofterior and thickeft part; the point, the ante- rior and thirmeft part. Ihe upper fide is not quite flat, but a little convex, and divided into two lateral halves, by a fhal- % low deprefled line, called linea linguae mediana. The edges are thinner than the other parts, and a little rounded, as well as the point. The lower fide reaches only from the middle of the tongue to the point. The tongue is principally compofed of very foft fleftiy fibres, intermixed with a particular medullary fiubflance, and difpofed in various manners. Many of thefe fibres are con- fined to the tongue without going any farther; the reft form feparate muf'cles, which go out from it in different ways, and are inl'erted in other parts. All the upper tide of the tongue is covered by a thick membrane of a papillary texture, upon which lies another very fine membrane like a kind of epi- dermis, which is likewife continued over the lower fide, but without papillae. Under the epidermis, on the lurface of the tongue, we find the corpus mu.cofium thicker but more moift than in other parts of the body. This difpofition feems neceflary to protect the tender papillae, which are the organs of tafte. In brute animals, a perforated mucous net-work receive the papillae, which are in a manner wrap-Chap. I. 163 AND ITS APPENDAGES. I ped up in capfules of this mucous body covered with the cuticle. Three forts of papillae may be diDinguifiied in the upper fide of the tongue ; capitatae, femi-l(enticulares, and viHolae. Thofe of the firfl: kind are the largeft, and are of a lenticu- lar form, having round heads with fhort ftems. They lie on the bails of the tongue in fmall fuperficial foffulae. They have a fmall deprefilon in the middle of their upper or convex fide, which opens into a mucous follicle. They occupy the whole furface of the balls of the tongue; and they are fituated near each other in fuch a manner as that the moll anterior form an angle. They are glandular papifc lae, or fmall falival or mucilaginous glands, of the fame kind with thofe that are to be defcribed hereafter. We commonly obferve about the middle of this part of the tongue a particular hole of different depths, the inner furface of which is entirely glandular, and filled with fmall papillae like thofe of the firfl: kind. It is called foramen caecum Morgagni, as being firfl; defcribed by that author. It is nothing elfe than the meeting of excretory duels of glands fituated in the tongue, and which throw out a thick laliva. The papillae of the lecond kind, or lemi-lenticulares, are fmall orbicular eminences, only a little convex, their circular edges not being feparate from the furface of the tongue. When we examine them in a found tongue with a good uii- crofeope, we find their convex fides full of fmall holes or pores, like the end of a thimble. They lie chiefly in the middle and anterior portions of the tongue, and are fometimes moll vifible on the edges. They appear to be very finooth and polilhed even to the naked eye, and they are often feen in living fubjefts. TJiey locn lofe their confiflence after death, fo that, by rubbing them fevcral times, they may be drawn out in form of lmall loft pyramids inclined to one fide. TheTHE MOUTff, Fart V& The papillae of the third kind, or villofae, are the fmalleft and moft numerous. Ihey fill the whole lurface of the up- per fide of the tongue, and even the interfaces between the other papillae. 1 hey would he more properly named papillae cotiicae than villofae, from the figure which they appear to Have when examined through a microfcope in clear water. Ihey are naturally loftifh,. but they become extremely flaccid nfter death, fo that by handling them they may be made fliort and thick, whereas they are naturally long and fmall. Ana- tomifta confider thefe as the extremities of the veflels and nerves of the tongue. The fiefiiy fibres of which the tongue is compofed, and which go no further than the tongue, may be termed mufcult linguae inlet iores. rl he fibres thele mufcles confilt of are of three general kinds ; longitudinal, tranlverle, and vertical; and each of thefe fituaticns admits of different degrees of obliquity. The longitudinal fibres point to the bafis and apex ot the tongue, and feem partly to be expanfions of the mulculi fiylo- gloffi, hyo glofli, genio gloffi, and lingualis. The vertical fibres fecm likcwile to be in part produced by thefe mulcles. Befides thefe mixed productions, there is a diftindt plane of longitudinal fibres, which run near the furface of the up- per fide of the tongue, and a difiinCt tranlverfe plane under them. All thefe fibres are partly interwoven, one portion of them terminating at the two edges of the tongue, and the other at the balls and point, without going to any other part; and they lie immediately above thofe that belong to the ge- nio-gloffi. To dilcover all thele different hires, and their different degrees of direction, we need only cut the tongue longitudinally, after it has been boiled, or long macerated in ilrong vinegar. The mulculi exteriores, are thole which by one extremity make a part of the body of the tongue, and are fixed by the other* in frnne part without the tongue. Of thefe we com- monlyCTiap. T. 265 AND ITS APPENDAGES. monly reckon three pairs j fiylo-gloffi, hyo-gloffi, genio- gloffi. rIhe mufcles which move the os hyoides belong likewife to the tongue. The names of thefe are, Mylo-hyoidaii, genic- hyci daei, Jlylo-hyoidaei, omo- hyci daei, J}et no hyoidati. When either of the fiylo-gloffi adls, it turns the tongue toward the cheek, and forces the aliment betwetn the upper and lower molares. When they ad! jointly with the lateral portions of the fuperior fielhy plane of the tongue, they turn the tongue obliquely upward to the teeth of the upper jaw, and near the cheeks, as when we bring down any part of the food that may have buck there after matticatton. When they ad! jointly with the lateral portions of the hyo gloffi, they turn the tongue downward between the lower teeth and the cheek. When all the parts of the hyo-gloffi ad! together, they fhorten the tongue. They ltkewiie turn the point of the tongue between the teeth and the under lip, and make it pafs over that lip. The fuperior fielhy plane of the body of the tongue bends it upward toward the palate, and makes it pafs along and lick the upper lip. The tongue is fixed in the mouth, not only by mufcles, but alio by ligaments, which are lor the moll part mem- branous. I he principal ligament is that called the frainnm, which is the prominent fold that appears firl! under the tongue when we raife it, with the mouth opened ; and is no more than a continuation or lo fe dnplicature of that mem- brane which covers the inferior cavity of the mouth. It co- vers the curvature of the anterior portion of the genio glnffi from the point of the tongue, almol! as high as the middle interlfice between the lower dentes tncifurii. The other ligaments of the tongue are the fmall membra- nous fold which runs along the middle of the convex fide of the epiglottis, to the bafii3 of the tonaue, and the membranous foldsPart VI; 166 ' THE MOUTH, u folds which cover the inferior half arches of the feptum pa- lati. Thefe three folds are continuations of the membrane which covers the neighbouring parts. The aponeurotic liga- ments of the ftylo-gloffus may be looked upon as true lateral ligaments of the tongue ; and they adhere a little to the lower part of the mufculus pterygoidaeus internus, or ante- rior. The principal blood-veffels of the tongue are thofe that ap- pear fo plainly on its lower furface on each fide of the frae- num ; and they confift of one artery and one vein, which accompany each other, and are called arteriae et venae fublin- guales or raninae. The veins lie next the fraenum, and the arteries on the other fide of the veins. The arteries are rami of the fecond internal or anterior branch of the external ca- rotid on each fide, and communicate with the firfi: external or pofterior branch of the fame carotid, &c. The veins are commonly rami of a branch of the external jugular vein, de- fcribed among the other veins. We ob'erve fix nervous ropes to go very diftin&ly to the bafis of the tongue, and to continue their courfe through its whole fubftance all the way to the point. Two of thefe ropes are rami of the inferior maxillary nerves, or of the third branch of the fifth pair; other two are the nerves of the ninth pair j and the remaining two are fmall portions, or the firft branches of the eighth pair. The great lingual nerve on each fide runs forward between the mulculus mylo-hyoidaeus and hyo-gloffus, under the geni- gloffus, and is diftributed to the flefhy fibres all the way to the point of the tongue, communicating by feveral fmall fila- ments with rhe linguahs minor, and with the nerve from the eighth pair. , For the. other difiributions of it, we refer to the defcription of the nerves. The fmall lingual nerve on each fide goes off from the jnaxillaris inferior, fometitnes at, and fometimes before, itsChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. i6j pafiage between the pterygoid mufcles. Afterwards, fepa- rating more and more from the trunk, it pafles under the la- teral part of the tongue, over the lublingual gland ; of which hereafter. It fupplies the neareft parts of the tongue as it pafles; and then entering its lubitance, terminates at the point, having fent a great number of filaments to the papil- lary membrane. It communicates, as ha*, been laid, with tne lingu.dis major, and with the nerve from the eighth pair. This lingual nerve, a little after it leaves the maxilb,ris in- ferior, receives the chorda tympani, which was formerly men- tioned in ddfcribing the ear. This fmall nervous rope has been looked upon by anato- mifts as a kind of fmall recurrent of the nervus linguaiis ; but as, in fome fubjetts, it appears to make limply an acute angle with the lingual nerve, and as this lingual nerve is fomething larger after this angle, it ought rather to be belie- ved to come from the tympanum, and to unite with the lin- gual nerve, than to arile from this nerve, and run up to the tympanum. In fome fubjtiSls, the union of this nerve with the linguaiis is in a manner plexiform, and very difficult to be unfolded. The lingual nerve of the eighth pair, which is its firfi: branch, runs, firfi: of all, on the infide of the digafiric mufcls of the lower jaw, and fupplies the genio-hyoidaei, the neigh- bouring mufcles of the bails of the tongue, and thofe of the pharynx. Afterwards, it fends out the ramifications, and forms the communications defcribtd in the hifiory of the nerves ; and, laftly, goes to the lower part of the tongue, where it communicates with the lingual ramus of the fifth pair, and with the lingual ramus of the ninth. The tongue is the organ of that fenfe called the tnjle; and, by certain experiments, it appears that the power of tafie is exercifed by the tongue chiefly, although it is not confined to ffie tongue alone. For, on whatever part of the mouth, pa- late,V i<5S THE MOUTH, Part VI. / late, or cheeks, we apply a Lpid body, we do not perceive the Penle of pain, but of talte ; and from fome bodies, as arum, pepper, &-C. the lenlation produced will be ftronger and more <Miii£t in thefe parts than any where elle. 1 hat fenfation which is fometimes excited in the ftotnach, oefophagu^, and fauces, by the regurgitation of the aliments, leems alfo to be- long to the tongue, to which the fapid vapours are fenit back, uncommonly acrid and penetrating j and even that fenfc which is fometimes occafiuned in the ftomach, oefophagus, and fauces, from a rifing of the aliments, feems alfo to be owing to the tongue, to which the talteable vapours are conveyed. The papillae of the tongue, which are larger and hotter than thofe of the Ikin, and perpttually moift, perform the office of touch more cxquifitely than the fmall and dry cuta- neous papillae. The papillae of the tongue being railed a little protuberant to perform the office ot talle, are affected in a particul. r manner by fairs diflolved in water, or faliva, ai d applied againft their tips or fummits; which being dif- tinguifhed by the mind, and referred to certain daffies, are , called tajles, either lour fweet, acerb, bitter, lalme, urinous, fpirituous, aromatic, or pui gent and acrid inlipid, putrid, and others refusing pirtly from pure (alts, and in part from an intermixture of the fubtile, animal, or vegetable oils, varioufly compounding and changing each other. Does the diverfity of fades nrile from the different figures which are natural to fahs ? Is the cubical figure of fea-falt the reafon of its having a different tafte from nitre that is prifmatical, or from other falts of a different form ? we an- fwer, that this does not ieem probable; for, even taftelefs crys- tals have their particular configurations; and the tafte arifing from very different falts, and differently qualified objeds of this (enfe, are too much alike each other, and at the fame time too inconftant or changeable, to allow fuch a theory ; for example, in nitre. The mechanical reafon, therefore.169 Gmp. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. of the diverfity of taftes, feems to refide in the intrinfic fabric of the elements of fapid bodies, which do not fall under the ferutiny of our fenfes. But the nature or difpofition of the covering with which the papillae are clothed, together with that of the juices, and of the aliments lodged in the ftomach, have a confiderable fhare in determining the fenfe of tafte ; inlomuch, that the fame flavour does not equally pleafe or affeift: the organ in all ages alike, nor in perfons of all temperaments ; nor even in the fame perfon at different times, and in different ftates of health or difeafe. In general, whatever contains lefs fait than the faliva itfelf, feems infipid. , The fpirituous parts, more efpecially of vegetables, either penetrate into the papillae themfelves, or elfe are abforbed by the adjacent villi of the tongue *, as appears from the fpeedy reftitution of the ftrength by vinous, or aromatic liquors. For this reftitution takes place even before they are received into the ftomach. Nature defigned the difference of taftes to be felt by the tongue, that we might know and diftinguifh fuch foods as are moft falutary ; for, in general, there is not any one kind of wholefome aliment that is of a difagreeable taftej nor are there any ill tailed fubftances that are fit for our nourifh- ment. By excefs, indeed, the moft wholefome food becomes prejudicial. Nature has invited us to take neceffary food, as well by the pain called hunger, as by the pleafure arifing from the fenfe of tafte. But brute animals, who have not, like us, the advantage of learning from each other by in- ftruflion, have the faculty of diftinguifhing flavours more accurately, by which they are admonifbed cautioufly to avoid poifonous or unwholefome food; and therefore it is that, in herbivorous cattle, to which a great diverfity of noxious plants is offered among their food, the tongue is of a more Vol. II. T ' exquifite17® THE MOUTH, Part VI. exquitite texture, and furnifhed with larger and longer papil- lae than in man, to whom they are lets necefTary. The tongue is likewife one of the principal inftruments of fpeech, and of the articulation of the voice. Riolan, in his Anthropographia, mentions a child of five years of age, who, though he had loft his tongue by the fmall-pox, but not the uvula, continued (till to lpeak almoft as diftinctly as before. Probably the bafis of the tongue ftiil remained. M. de Juf- fieu has published an obfervation in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy, concerning a' little girl who could fpeak though flie was born without a tongue; in room of which there was only a kind of fmall tubercle. The tongue ferves alfo to collect all the morfels which we chew ; to turn them in different manners, and to different parts of the mouth ; and to rub off whatever flicks to the palate •, and it is ufeful in fpitting, fucking, See. It bears a great part in deglutition, being affifted by the digaftric rnuf- cles ; which, by contradling at the fame time that the other mufcles prefs the lower jaw againft the upper, raife the os hyoides, and fix it at a convenient height that the ftylo- glofii and hyo-glofli may make the bafis of the tongue bear back upon the morfel which is to be fwallowed, and fo force it into the pharynx j the portions of which, that are at that time immediately above the morfel, inftantly contract, and pufh it into the oefophagus. $ 4. The Larynx. The larynx forms the protuberance in the upper and an- terior part of the neck, called commonly popum Adami. This - is larger and more prominent in men than in women. It confifts chiefly of five cartilages; the names of which are thefe : Cartilago-thyroides, which is the anterior and largeft ; cricoides, the inferior, and bafis of the reft; two arytenoides,and its appendages. 171 £hap. I, arytenoides, the pofterior and fmalleft ; and the epiglottis, which is above all the reft. Thefe cartilages are connefted together by ligaments, and they have likewife mufcles, glands, membranes, &c. belonging to them. Cartilago thyroidaea, The cartilago thyroidaea is large and broad, and folded in fucli a manner as to have a longitudinal convexity on the forefide, and two lateral portions, which, may be termed alae. The upper part of its anterior middle portion is formed into an angular notch; the upper edge of each ala makes an arch ; and, together with the middle notch, thefe two edges refemble the upper part of an ace of hearts in playing cards. The lower edge of each ala is more even, and the pofterior edges of both are very fmooth, being lengthened out, both above and below, by apophyfes, which we name the cornua of the thyroid cartilage. The fuperior apophyfes are longer than the inferior, and the extremities of all the four are rounded like fmall heads, which in the inferior apophyfes have a (hi- lling furface on the infide, refembling an articular eminence. On the outfide of each ala, near the edge, is a prominent oblique line, which runs from behind forward. The upper extremity of this line is near the fuperior apophyfis or cornu ; and both that and the lower extremity end in a fmall tubero- fity, the lowed: being often the mod confiderable. Thefe tuberofities ferve for the infertion of mufcles and ligaments. The infide of the alae and the convex fide of the anterior portion are very uniform ; and this cartilage ofiifies gradually in old age. Cartilago cricoides. The cricoid cartilage refembles a kind of thick, irregular ring, very broad on one fide, and narrow- on the other ; or it may be compared to a fmall portion of a thick tube, cut horizontally at one end, and very obliquely at the other; and it is diftinguiflied into a bafis and top, into an anterior, pofterior, and two lateral fides. The bafis is almofi: horizontal173 THE MOUTH, Part Vt horizontal when we ftand; and to this the afpera arteria is connected ; fo that the cricoides may be looked upon as the upper extremity of the rrachea. The pofterior portion of the cricoides is larger than the reft and its posterior or convex fide is divided by a longitu- dinal eminence, or prominent line, into two diltindt furfaces, for the in/ertion of mufcles. The top is gently Hoped above this prominent line ; and terminates on each fide by a kind of obtufe angle, formed between it and the oblique edge of each'lateral portion of this cartilage. At the upper part of each of thel'e angles, there is a very fmooth articular furface, gently convex. The whole pofterior fide is diftinguifhed into two lateral portions by two prominent lines, each of which runs down almoft in a ftraight direction from the articular furface at the top, a little below the middle of this fide, where it terminates jn another articular line a little concave •, and near thefe four articular furfaces there are fmail tubercles. The two fuperior furfaces are for the articulation of the cartilagines arytenoi- daeae, and the two inferior for the articulation of the inferior cornua or appendices of the cartilago thyroides. Cartilagines arytetioidaeae. The cartilagines arytenoidaeae are two finall, equal, fimilar cartilages, which, joined toge- ther, refemble the fpout of an ewer *, and they are fituated on the top of the cricoides. In each, we may confider the bafis; cornua j two tides, one pofterior and concave, the other anterior and convex*, and two edges, one internal, the other external, which is very oblique. The bates are broad and thick ; and have each a concave articular furface, by which they are joined to the cricoides. The cornua are bent backward, and a little toward edch other. In fome fubjefts they are very loofe, appearing like true appendices, and eafily feparable from the reft. Between theirChap. L AND ITS APPENDAGES. . 173 tlieir inner edges they form a kind of fiflure, and their outer oblique edges each terminate by a thick prominent angle. Epiglottis. The epiglottis is an elaftic cartilage, fomewhat of the figure of the tongue, narrow and thick at the lower part, thin and {lightly rounded at the upper part, gently con* vex on the forefide, and concave on the backfide. It is fitu- ated above the anterior or convex portion of the cartilago thyroides •, and its lower extremity is tied, by a fhort, broad, and very ftrong ligament, to the middle notch in the upper edge of that cartilage. It is perforated by a great number of finall holes, which are hid by the membranes that cover its two fides. Ligaments of the larynx. The cartilago thyroides is con- nected to the cricoides by feveral fhort ftrong ligaments, round the articulations of the two inferior cornua with the lateral articular furfaces of the cricoides. The apices of the fuperior cornua are fixed to the pofterior extremities of the great cornua of the os hyoides, by {lender round ligaments, about a quarter of an inch in length. In the middle of each of thefe ligaments, we often meet with a fmall cartilage of an oval figure, and much thicker than the ligaments. The thyroides is likewife connected to the os hyoides by a fhort, broad, ftrong ligament; one end of which is inferted in the fuperior notch of the cartilage, and the other in the lower edge of the bafis of the bone. It has alfo two ligaments at the middle of the concave fide which belong to the arytenoidaeae. The cricoides is tied to the lower part of the thyroides by a ftrong ligament; and by the ligaments already mentioned, to the inferior cornua of that cartilage. Its bafis is fixed to the firft cartilaginous ring of the trachea arteria, by a liga- ment exactly like thofe by which the other rings are con- nected together; and the membranous or pofterior portion of the*74 T&E MOUTH, Part VI* the trachea is likewife fixed to the pofterior part of the bafis of the cricoides. Glottis. The cartilagines arytenoidaeae are connected to the cricoides by ligaments, which furround their articulations with the top of that cartilage. Anteriorly the bafis of each arytenoides is fixed to one end of a ligamentary cord, which, by its other end, is inferted about the middle of the concave fide of the anterior portion of the thyroides. At their infer- tions in the thyroides, thefe two ligaments touch each other; hut a fmall fpace is left between them, where they are fixed in the two arytenoides ; and they feem likewife to have st fmall adhefion to the top of the cricoides. This is what is called the glottis. Under thefe two ligamentary cords there are two others which run likewife from behind forward. The interftice between the fuperior and inferior cords on each fide form a tranfverfe fiffiire, which is the opening of a fmall membra- nous bag, the bottom of which is turned outward, that is, toward the ala of the thyroides. Thefe two facculi are the ventricles mentioned by the antients, and reftored by M. Morgagni, who has given an excellent defcription of them. They are chiefly formed by a continuation of the internal membrane of the larynx, and the inner furface of their bot- tom fometimes appears to be glandular. On the anterior furface of the arytenoid cartilages, there is a fmall depreffion between the bafis and the convex upper part. This depreffion is filled by a glandular body, which not only covers the anterior furface of each arytenoides, but is likewife extended forward from the bafis over the pofte- rior extremity of the neighbouring ligamentary cord. They are larger and more fenfible in fome fubjedts than in others; and they are covered by the membrane which lines the neighbouring parts, Thefe glands were difcovered by M. Morgagni. TheAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. *7 5 The two ligaments which connect the epiglottis to the notch of the thyroid cartilage, and to the bafis of the os hyoides, and a third, which ties the balls of the os hyoides to the notch of the thyroides, form a triangular fpace filled with a cellular or fatty fubftance, and with ftnall glands. The epiglottis has likewife two lateral ligaments, by which it is connected to the arytenoides all the way to their points or cornua. It has alio a membranous ligament, which, run- ning along the middle of its anterior or concave fide, ties it to the root or bafis of the tongue. This ligament is only a duplicature of the membrane which covers the epiglottis, continued to the neighbouring parts. Laftly, there are two lateral membranous ligaments belonging to it, fixed near the glandular bodies called amygdalae. The epiglottis is not only perforated by the regular holes already mentioned, but has likewife a great number of fmall irregular fiffures and breaks, which are fo many different lacunae fituated between its two membranes, and filled with fmall glands, the excretory orifices of which are chiefly on the back-fide of this cartilage. Mufcles of tU larynx. The larynx gives infertion to a great number of mufcles, which may be divided into com- mon, proper, and collateral. The common mufcles, accor- ding to the general acceptation of that term, are all thofe that move the whole body of the larynx, one extremity of them being inferted in other parts ; and thefe are reckoned to be four in number, two for each fide, viz. fterno-thyroi- daei, thyro-hyoidaei or hyo-thyroidaei. The proper mufcles are thofe inferted wholly in the la- rynx, and which move the cartilages feparately. Thefe have, been divided in' various manners, but may be all reduced to the following pairs: Crico-thyroidaei ; crico-arytenoidaei la- terals ; crico-arytenoidaei pofieriores ; tbyro-arytenoidaei j arytenoidaei; thyro-epiglottici •, aryteno-epiglottici.Part VL ij6 THE MOUTH, By the collateral mufcles, is underftood thofe which are inferted by one portion in the larynx, without appearing to contribute any thing to its motions. Of this kind are the thyro-pharyngaei, crico-pharyngaei, &c. The larynx may likewife be moved by mufcles which are not immediately inferted in it, but are wholly in other parts. Such are the mylo-hyoidaei, genio-hyoidaei, ftylo-hyoidaei, omo-hyoidaei, fterno-hyoidaei, and efpecially the digaftrici of the lower jaw, by reafon of their particular adhefion to the os hyoides. It is likewife probable, that thofe mufcles of the pharynx, which are inferted in the balls cranii, may, in cer- tain circumftances, move the larynx in fome fmall degree. The blood-veflels of the larynx, &c. are the arteriae and ve- nae, thyroideae, fuperiores, and inferiores. The nerves are the fuperior and inferior laryngeals, which are branches of the eighth pair. Ufes. The larynx ferves particularly to admit and let out the air in refpiration j and the folidity of the pieces of which it is compofed, hinders not only external objects, but alfo any hard thing which we fwallow, from difordering this palTage. The glottis being a narrow flit, modifies the air which we breathe ; and, as it is very eafily dilated and contracted, it forms the different tones of the voice, chiefly by means of the different mufcles inferted in the cartilagines arytenoidaeae, to which the other mufcles of the larynx, both proper and common, are afiiftants. The whole larynx is likewife of ufe in deglutition, as has been already obferved, by means of its connexion with the os hyoides, to which the digaftric mufcles of the lower jaw adhere; which mufcles raife the larynx, together with the os hyoides, every time we fwallow. The facility of varying and changing the tone of the voice depends on the flexibility of the cartilages of the larynx, and decreafes in proportion as we advance in age ; becaufe thefe cartilagesAND ITS APPENDAGES, *77 Chap. I. cartilages gradually harden and oflify, though not equally jfoon in all perfons : And this change happens not only in the cartilago thyroides, but alio to the cricoides and aryte- noides. The mufculi fterno-thyroidaei ferve in general to pull down the thyroid cartilage, and the whole larynx along with it. They may likewii'e affill the fterno-hyoidaei in its action, and comprefs the thyroid gland ; of which hereafter. The ■ thyro-hyoidaei may, as occafion requires, either draw up the larynx toward the cs hyoides, or draw that bone downward toward the cartilago thyroides. It is difficult to determine the ufe of the crico-thyroidaei from their fituation. They may either pull the cricoides ob- liquely backward, or the thyroides obliquely forward; and by this aftion the inferior cornua of the thyroides, and fmall articular furfaces of the cricoides, mull Hide upon each other. Both the lateral and pofterior crico-arytenoidaei may fe- parate the arytenoid cartilages, and thereby open or dilate the glottis; but they do not both perform this aiftion in the fame manner. The lateral mufcles feparate thefe cartilages obliquely forward, and at the fame time loofen or relax the fides of the glottis ; but the pofterior mulcles feparate them obliquely backward, and at the fame time ftretch or extend the fides of the glottis; and when both mufcles a£l equally, they feparate the cartilages dire£lly. The thyro-arytenoidaei atting together, draw both th® arytenoid cartilages forward, and confequently loofen the glottis, and render it capable of the fmalleft quaverings of the voice. They may likewife probably comprefs the lateral firtufes or ventricles of the larynx, and alfo the arytenoid glands. The arytenoidaei bring the arytenoid cartilages clofe toge- ther, and prefs them againft each other ; and when the car- VoL. II, 51 tilagesPart VI. 178 THE MOUTH, tilages are in this fituation, they may at the fame time be in- clined either forward by the thyro-arytenoidaei, or backward, by the crico-arytenoidaei pofteriores. By this means the glottis, when {hut, may be either relaxed or tenfe ; and, in this laft cafe, it is entirely fhut, as when we hold in our breath in {training: But of this more in another place. The general ufe of the epiglottis is to cover the glottis like a pent houfe, and thereby hinder any thing from falling into it when we eat or drink •, and for this purpofe it is depreffed in the manner that fhall be fhewn hereafter. It ferves like- wife to hinder the air which we infpire from rufhing directly upon the glottis; but, by fplitting it, as it were, obliges it to enter by the fides, or in an oblique courfe. The mufcles of the epiglottis do not 'appear to be abfolutely neceffary for that cartilage ; for m deglutition it may be fufficiently de- preffed by the bafis of the tongue, and it may raife itfelf by its own elafficity. The thyro-epiglottici and aryteno-epiglot- tici may ferve to fhut any lateral openings that might remain when the epiglottis is depreffed by the bafis of the tongue; and the hyo-epiglottici may pull it a little forward in ftrong refpirations, as in fighing, yawning, &c. Voice and Speech. The larynx is the principal organ of the voice ; for that being injured, the air paffes through the windpipe without yielding any found. All the- cartilages of the larynx are connected by various mufcles and ligaments, with a certain degree of firmnefs, to the adjacent parts; and yet fo that the whole is eafily move- able together, as are alfo its feveral parts upon each other. We {hall now confider what a&ion the air produces, when it is driven from the lungs in exfpiration through the trachea into the larynx, and through the glottis into the mouth. The confequences or effects of this are, voice, fpeech, and fingiDg. The voice, indeed, is only formed, when the air is expelled with fo great a velocity through the contra&ed glot- tis,AND ITS APPENDAGES. 179 Chap. I. tis, that it fplits or makes a collifion upon the ligaments of the glottis, fo as to put the larynx into a tremor, which tre- mor is returned, and continued or increafed by the clafticity of thefe parts. From the conjunct trembling of the liga- ments and cartilages of the larynx, a found is produced which we call the voice. It is different in different animals, and de- pends entirely on the form and ftruflure of the larynx and glottis. When a trembling is not excited, the exfpired air caules a whifper. The ftrength of the voice is proportional to the quantity of air blown out, together with the narrownefs of the glottis i and, therefore, a large pair of lungs eafily dilatable, an am- ple cartilaginous and elaftic larynx and windpipe, a free echo of the noftrils, and a powerful exfpiration, all conduce to this effect. But acute and grave tones of the voice, we obferve to arife from various caufes ; the former proceeds from a tenfion and narrownefs of the glottis, and the latter from n relaxation and expanlion of it. In the former, a greater number of aerial undulations are fplit in the fame time upon the ligaments of the glottis, whence the tremors excited in the fame time are more numerous *, but, when the glottis is dilated, the contrary of all this follows. And moreover, from the greater tenfion of the ligaments, the tremors become more numerous from the fame ftroke; therefore, to produce an acute and Ihrill voice, the whole larynx is drawn upwards and forwards, and fo much the more as the voice is requir- ed to be fiiarper, infomuch that the head itfelf is inclined backwards, by which the powers of the mufcles elevating the larynx are rendered more full and effectual. The truth of this is confirmed by applying the fingers to the larynx when it forms an acute found ; for then, to raife the voice an oc- tave, you will eafily perceive it to afeend near half an inch. It is alfo confirmed by comparative anatomy, which difeovers the narroweft glottis and the clofeft approximation of carti- lages'l8o THE MOUTH, Part VI. lages in Tinging birds, but an ample or broad glottis in hoarfe animals, and fitch as bellow or bleat. We obferve the fame fatt in whittling, where the voice becomes manifeftly more acute by a contraction or narrownefs at the mouth : Alfo in mullcal inftruments, in which a narrownefs of the mouth, with a celerity of the wind blown out, are the caufes of an acute or Thrill tone. Gravity of the voice, on the contrary, follows from a de- preflion of the larynx by the caufes already defcribed ; to which add a broad glottis and a very ample larynx. This is evident to the touch of the finger applied to the larynx when a perfon lings, by which the defcent of it is manifeftly per- ceived to be about an inch for every oClave: Hence the voice of males is more grave ; and hence the loweft degrees of the voice degenerate into a mutenefs or whifpering. Is the whole difference of tone owing to the length of the ligaments of the glottis, which is augmented when the fee ti- form cartilage is drawn forward, and the arytenoid ones backward ? Are acute tones produced in proportion as the ligaments are ftretched, and thus vibrating with great celeri- ty ? This has been confirmed by repeated experiments ; and fome late anatomifts have obferved, that, when the cords or ligaments of the glottis are tenfe, the peculiar voice of every kind of animal is produced by blowing air into its larynx : That this voice wTas more acute as the ligaments were more tenfe, and more grave as they were fluckened ; that, by fhut- ting the whole ligament, the voice was fuppreffed •, by fhut- ting the half, the voice was rendered an odlave higher; by fhutting a third part, a fifth higher, See. There are not wanting, however, doubts concerning this new theory, ari- fing from the cartilaginous and bony ftruffure of the glottis of birds, which of confequence mutt be immoveable, and not exter.fible; from the voice raoft certainly becoming more acute, in whittling, from the mere contra&ion of the lips •, fromChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. from the example of women, in which the larynx is fofter, but the voice more acute, than in men; from experiments which fhew, that more acute founds are produced by bring-, ing the ligaments of the glottis nearer into contact with each other; from the perfect want of machines, by which the liga- ments can be ftretched, and the fcutiform cartilage brought forward from the annular one. But, fince it appears from experiments, that a tenfion of the ligaments (uffices for pro- ducing acute founds, without the contraction of the glottis, we may believe that the different tenfion of the glottis con- tributes more to the diverfity of voice than the different dia- meter of it. Singing is when the voice, modulated through various de- grees of acutenefs and gravity, is expelled through the la- rynx, while it is trembling and fufpended between two con- trary powers; and herein lies the principal difference between the chanting of Ample notes and the expreflion of words. Hence finging appears to be a laborious aCtion, on account of the continual contractions of the muffles, which keep the larynx at an equilibrium ; and hence it is that finging makes a perfon hot; becaufe, in acute tones, the narrower glottis much retards the exfpiration, while at the fame time a great deal of air is required to give firength to the voice ; to which, again, deep inlpirations are neceffary. Hence likewife the trachea grows dry, from the quicker paffage or current of air y to prevent which, a great deal of mucus is required ; and therefore great numbers of mucous receptacles are found in the larynx ; among which the ventricles belore deferibed ought furely to be numbered. Speech is performed by the larynx at reft, or held in the fame place, with tones of voice differing but little in acute- nefs and gravity ; but then the voipe is varioufly changed or modulated by the organs of the mouth. Singing has a vari- ation in the tone or caden.ce of the voice, together with a modulation1*2 THE MOUTH, Part VI. From modulation of it by the organs of the mouth at the fame time. All fpeech is reducible to the pronunciation of letters, which differ in various nations ; but their general properties are alike all the world over. Of thefe, fome are called vowels, which are made by an exprefilon of the voice, with- out any application of the tongue to certain parts of the mouth. But confonants are formed by a collifion of the tongue againft certain parts of the mouth, lips, and teeth. But, to be more particular in thefe matters is beyond our purpofe, which does not permit us to expatiate upon the beautiful art of pronunciation. That art, as an extraordi- nary inftance of mechanical knowledge, has fo accurately de- termined all the corporeal caufes concurring to each letter, that, by infpe£tion only, with the affiftance of touch, letters pronounced are underftood without hearing them ; and the attentive perfon is thereby taught to imitate the fame fpeech by a like ufe of the organs. / - § 5. The Pharynx. The pharynx is a mufcular and glandular bag; the outer furface of which is clofely joined to the inner furface of all that fpace which is at the bottom of the mouth, behind the pofterior narcs, uvula, and larynx, and which reaches from the cuneiform procefs of the os occipitis all the way to the oefophagus, which is a continuation of the pharynx. This fpace is bounded pofteriorly by the mufcles which cover the bodies of the firft vertebrae of the neck, and laterally by the fuperior portions of both the internal jugular veins and of both the internal and carotid arteries, by the fpinal apophyfes of the os fphenoides, by the extremities of the apophyfes pe- trofae, by the os fphenoides immediately above the internal alae of the apophyfes pterygoides, and by the neighbouring portion of both pterygoid mufcles.Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES, 1S3 From thefe limits and adhefions of the pharynx we may nearly determine its figure. It may be compared to the wide part of a covered funnel, of which the oefophagiis is the narrow part or tube ; or it may be called the broad end of the oefiphagus, that and the pharynx taken together being compared to a trumpet. The pharynx may be dividecj into three parts ; one fuperior, which is the arch of the pharynx , one middle, which is the body or great cavity; and one infe- rior, which is the bottom, narrow portion, or fphinfter. We are likewife to obferve it in three openings *, that of the arch, toward the nares ; that of the body, toward the mouth and that of the bottom, toward the oefophagus. 1 The arch is the broadeft part of the pharynx; and ends on each fide in an angle or point, toward the jugular foffulae of the balls cranii. Afterwards the great cavity contratts a little toward the fides, all its other dimenfions continuing the fame •, and behind the larynx it is again enlarged on each fide, a very fmall fpace being left between it and the cricoid cartilage. The extremity of the lower portion is very nar- row, and joins the balls of the cartilage juft named. The pharynx conlifts partly of feveral diftimft flefliy por- tions, which are looked upon as fo many different mufcles fo difpofed as to form a large cavity ; and partly of a mem- brane which lines the inner furface of this whole cavity, and is a continuation of that of the nares and palate. This membrane is wholly glandular ; and it is thicker on the fuperior and middle portions of the pharynx than on the bottom or lower portion. Immediately above the firft ver- tebra it forms feveral longitudinal rugae very thick, deep, and fhort and we generally find therein a collection of mucus in dead bodies. In the great cavity there are no rugae, the membrane adhering, both there and in the upper part, very clofely to the mufcles. At the lower part, where it is thin- ned, it covers likewife the pofterior part of the larynx; and isTHE MOUTH, Part VI. 5s Very loofe, and formed into irregular folds. It runs in a little on each fide between the edges of the pharynx. Mi/fcles of the pharynx. Though almoft all the mufcular or flelhy portions of which tne pharynx is compofed concur in the formation of one continued bag or receptacle, they are neverthelefs very diftinguilhable from each other, not only by their different infertions, from which they have been de- nominated, but alfo by the different directions of their fibres. They may be looked upon as three digaftric mufcles ; the middle tendons of which lie backward in one longitudinal line, which in fome fubjeCts appears plainly like a linea alba. The loweft of the mufcular fibres make a complete circle backward between the two fidcs of the bafis of the cartilago cricoides. This circle is the beginning of the oefophagus, and has been thought by fome to form a diffinft mufcle, called oefophagus. Befides the mufcles which form the body of the pharynx, there are feveral other fmall ones connected with it; but of thefe fufficient defcriptions have been already given in a former part of the work. The particular ufes of thefe mufcles are very difficult to be determined. It is certain that thofe of the middle and lower portions of the pharynx ferve chiefly for deglutition. Thofe of the upper portion, and fome of thofe of the middle por- tion, may, among other funClions, be ufeful in modifying the voice, according to the opinion of M. Santorini* § 6, The Salival Glands, Isfc. By faliva we mean in general that fluid by which the mouth and tongue are continually moiftened in their natural ftate. This fluid is chiefly fupplied by glands, called, for that reafon, glandulae falivales, of which they commonly rec- kon three pairs, two parotides, two maxillares, and two fub- linguales. Thefe are indeed the largeft, and they furnilh th»Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 185 Vol. II. A a tkl the greateft quantities of laliva; but there are a great number of other leficr glands of the lame kirn), which may be rec- koned affiilants or luolli'utes to the former. All thcle may be termed falival glands, and they may be enumerated in the following manner : Glandulae parotides, glandulae maxillnres, glandulae lublinguales, glandulae molar^s. glandulae buccaies, glandulae labiales, glandulae iii guales, amygdalae, glandulae palatinae, glandulae uvularcs, glandulae arytenoidaeae, gian- dula thyroidaea. The parotides are two large, whitifh glands, irregularly ob- long and protuberant, fituated on each tide, between the ex- ternal ear and the pofterior or afeending rarnus ot the lower jaw, and lying on fome part of the neighbouring mailcter mufcle. The fuperior portion of this gland lies before the * « • * cartilaginous meatus of the ear, and touches the apophyfis zygomatica of the os temporis; and it is extended forward and backward under the lobe of the ear, as far as the maltoid apophyfis. From the anterior and fuperior portion'of this gland, a white membranous duff or canal is produced by the union of a great number of fmall tubes reprefenting fo many roots. This duff runs obliquely forward on the outfide of the mai- feter; and then perforates the buccinator from without in- ward, oppofite to the interffice between the fecond and third dentes molares, where the hole or orifice reprelents the fpout of an ewer. This canal is named duElut falivolis Stenonis, or duElus fupe- nor. It is about the twelfth part of an inch in diameter, and on the out6r fide of tlie mafieter mufcle it receives lometimes one and fometimes two fmall dufl , from a like number of little glands, which Haller calls glandulae accejforiae. 1 he ex- ternal carotid artery and vein, and the portio dura of the le- venth pair of nerves, pafs through the fubftance of the paro-THE MOUTH, Part VL iS5 tid gland, to which they give branches; and the facial artery and vein pafs over its du£l. The maxillary glands are fmaller and rounder than the pa- rotides ; and are fituated each on the inlide of the angle of the lower jaw, near the mufculus prerygoidaeus inferior. From the infide, or that which is turned to the mufculus liyo-gloflus, each ot them fends out a duct in the lame man- ner as the parotides; but it is fmaller and longer, and goes by the name of duElus falivalis Whartbni, or duchts inferior. This duct advances on the fide of the mufculus genio- glofius, along the inner part and fuperior edge of the glan- dula fublingualis, to the fraenum of the tongue, where it ter- minates by a fmall orifice, in form of a papilla. The glandulae fublinguales are likewife two in number, of the fame kind with the rormer, oniy Imaller, foniething ob- long, and Hatted like a blanched almond. They are fituated under the anterior portion of the tongue, one on each fide, near the lower jaw, on the lateral portions of the mufculi mylo-hyoidaei which fuflain them. The two extremities of each gland are turned backward and forward, and the edges obliquely inward and outward. They are covered on the upper fide by a very thin mem- brane, which is a continuation of the membrane that covers the under fide of the tongue. They fend out laterally feveral fmall fhort duels which open near the gums by the fame number of orifices, all arranged in the fame line, at a fmall diftance from the fraenum, and a little more backward. In many animals ^ we find particular duels belonging to thefe glands, like thofe of the glandulae maxillares, but they are not to be found fo diflinclly in men- The mufculi genio- plofli lie between the two fublingual glands, and alfo between the two maxillary du£ls. The arteries and veins of thefe, and of the former glands, belong to the -lingual veffels, and the nerves are from the lingual branch of the fifth pair.Chap. I; 187 AND ITS APPENDAGES. The molares are two glands nearly of the fame kind with the former, each of them being fituaced between the mafTeter and buccinator; and in fome fubjedts they may eafily be mif- taken for two fmall lumps of fat. They fend out fmall du£ls which perforate the buccinator, and open into the cavity of the mouth, almott over againft the laft dentes molares; and from thence Mr Heifter, who firll: delcribed them, called them glandulae molares. All the inlide of the cheeks, near the mouth, is full of fmall glandulous bodies, called glandulae buccales, which open by fmall holes or orifices through the inner membrane of the mouth. The membrane which covers the infide of the lips, which is a continuation of that on the cheeks, is likewife per- forated by a great number of fmall holes, which anfwer to the fame number of Imall glands, called glandulae labiales. The glandulae linguales are thofe of the foramen caecum of the bafis of the tongue, which have been already defcribed. We have alio explained the glandulae palatmae, or thofis that belong to the arch and feptum of the palate; and the glandulae arytenoidaeae were delcribed with the larynx. The uvular glands are only a continuation of the membrane of the palate, in form of a fmall bunch of grapes. We might like- wife reckon among the falival glands thofe of the fuperior portion of the pharynx mentioned in the del'cription of that part, and alfo the follicles of the membrana pituitaria- of the nares, and ot the finufes which communicate with them. The amygdalae are two glandular bodies of a reddii'h co- lour, lying in the interflices between the two lateral half- arches of the feptum palati, one on the right, the other on the left fide of the bafis of the tongue. I heir appearance is not unlike that of the outfide ot an almond-fihcll, both be- caufe their furfate is uneven, and becaufe it is full of holes big enough to admit the head of a large pin. ThefsTHE MOUTH, Part VI. 188 l Thcfe holes, which reprefent a fieve, or a piece of net- work, are continued to an irregular finus or cavity within the gland, filled commonly with a vifcid fluid, which comes from the bottom of the finus, and is from thence gradually dif- charged through thefe holes into the throat. The thyroid gland is a large reddifh mafs, which covers the anterior convex fide of the larynx. It feems at firft fight to be made up of two oblong glandular portions united by their inferior extremities, below the cricoid cartilage, in fuch a manner as to have lome refernblance to a crefcent, with the cornua turned upward. It is of a moderate thicknefs, and bent laterally like the thyroid cartilage, from which its name is taken. The twoi lateral portions lie on the mufculi thy- roidnei, and the middle or inferior portion on the crico thy- roidaei. The thyro-pharyngaei inferiores fend fibres over this gland; and they communicate on each fide, by fome fuch fibres, with the flerno-thyroidaei and hyo-thyroidaei. This gland feems to be of the fame kind with the other falival glands, but it is more folid. Some anatomifts thought they had difcovered the excretory du<A; but they miflook a blood-veffcl for it. Sabatier obferves, that the internal ftruc- ture of this gland is flaccid and reddifh, and formed of glan- dulous grains, lefs eafily diflinguilhed than in the other glands, and of veficles of different fizes, full of a yellowifh oily liquor, winch may ferve the purpofe of lubricating the parts in its neighbourhood. We fometimes meet with a kind of glandular rope which runs before the cartilago-thyroides, and difappears before the balls of the os hyoides- This glandular rope goes out from the common balls of the lateral portions of the thyroid gland ; and is lofl between the mufculi flerno-hyoidaei, behind the balls of the os hyoi- des, or between that balls and the epiglottis. The glandulae lyu.phaticae will come in more properly in another part of this work, with the defeription of the abfor- bent lyfiean.Ghap. I. and its appendages. 18<7 $ 7. Of Majlication, Saliva, and Deglutition. Such hard and tough foods as confift of long parallel fibres, or are covered with a bony fhell or cartilaginous fkin, generally require maftication to divide them into lefs coher- ing parts, that they may more eafily yield their nourilhment to the diffolving powers of the ftomach. I he more diligent- ly they are lubdivided in the mouth, the more relifhing ancl aereeable they become to the ftomach ; and the nearer they approach to the nature of a fluid, the more eatily are they digefted or aflimulared. Moll animals, therefore, are provided with teeth extremely hard ; and, as the materials of our food are various in their texture and firmnefs, nature has accordingly furnifhed us with, teeth varioufly figured. The office of the incifores is only, in the fofter foods, to cut thole which are tougher than the reft into fmaller portions; iuch as the fibres and membranes of animals and vegetables, with the brittle leeds and kernels of fruits. The canine teeth lacerate tough aliments, and hold fall fuch as require leng trituration by the grinders. Between the rnolares the moft compadt foods are interpo- fed and broke, the more tough and hard are ground fmaller, the lower teeth being urged obliquely and laterally againft the immoveable upper ones. Thele teeth are the principal inftruments of maftication ; and, that they might break or grind the food with due lire; grh and firmnefs, the upper- moft are fixed into the fockets of the immoveable upper jiw, as the lower ones are into the lower moveable jaw. This lower jaw is a Angle bone, and To joined with the temporal bones, that it ihay be drawn down from the upper jaw, and pulled up againft k with a great force ; and may be moved laterallyPart Vi* T$o THE MOUTH, laterally to the right or left, forward and backward. The various motions of the lower jaw have been already de- fcribed. The mufcles moving the lower jaw, which are weak in a man, but very ftrong in brute animals, are the temporalis and maffeter, which adt in concert, the temporal mulcle bringing the jaw more backwards, and the mafleter forwards. The pterygoidaeus interims elevates or draws it to one fide or the other alternately. The pterygoidaeus externus draws it forward and fidewife. The lower jaw is depreffcd, fo as to open the mouth by the digaftric or biventer mulcle. Moreover, the mouth may be partly opened by all the other lower mufcles of the jaw, os hyoides, and the larynx, as the genio-hyoidaeus, genio-gloffus, fterno-hyoidaeus, fterno-thyroidaeus, coraco-hyoidaeus, and lattiffimus colli ; although the latter rather draws the fkin of the neck and face downward than the jaw itfelf. The genio- hyoidaeus and digaftric mulcles have a power of drawing the jaw backwards. The lower jaw is elevated with a great force, fo as to divide the food by the prefiiire of the upper and lower teeth againft each other, by the action of the temporal, maffeter, and in- ternal pterygoid mufcles, the contraction of which appears by experiments to be very powerful, and fufficient to raife feveral hundred weight. The lateral and circular motions of the jaw are performed by the external and internal pterygoi- daei, aCting either alone or together. Thus the food is cut, lacerated, and ground to pieces; and, if the maftication be continued, it is, together with the liquors of the mouth, re- duced to a kind of pulp. During the trituration of the food in the mouth, there is continually poured into it, from numerous fprings, a large quantity of a watery, clear, evaporable, infipid, or at leaft but veryChap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 191 very {lightly, faline liquor, containing but little earth *. A large quantity of this faliva is feparated by numberlefs fmall glands of the lips and cheeks ; and the juice poured out from the exhaling vefTels of the tongue, mouth, and cheeks, is of the like kind, or rather more watery. As for the duc- tus incifivus, we are now fufficiently certain, that, in the ge- nerality of perfons, it difcharges nothing into the mouth, and only gives paffiige to vefl'els and nerves running between the palate and nollrils. The faliva is a watery liquor, with a moderate quantity of fait, partly lixivial, and partly culinary ; with fome oil and earth, diffipable by fire, with fcarce any tafte, unlefs what is given to it by difeafe or famine. The quantity produced is very confiderable, as twelve ounces have been known to flow out from wounds in thole parts in the fpace of an hour. It is for the molt part fwallowed, and indeed it cannot be thrown away without hurting the digellion. By the motion of the jaw in mafiication, the falival glands, which have been already defcribed, are comprefled, fo as to difcharge their juices into the mouth in great plenty. When the mouth is opened, the maxillary gland, being prefied by the digaftric and mylo-hyoidaeus, throws forth abundance of faliva; the mafieter, when fwelled, prefies the parotid gland, as does alfo the cutaneous mufcle of the neck which lies over it : And it is this mufcular preffure that excites the appetite, and pours the faliva into the mouth. The food being ground between the teeth, and intermixed with the watery faliva and air, is broken down into a foft, juicy pulp, replete with elaftic air; the food afterwards un- dergoes a farther diffolution from the warmth of the parts caufing the air to expand, and, by its elafticity, burft afunder the * This earth is neither acid nor alkaline, although from thence may be obtained a very fmall portion of lixivial fait.jpx THE MOUTH, Part VI. the particles of the food her ween which it is included and confined. In this a£I of maftication, the oily, aqueous, and faline parts of the food arc intermixed the one with the other ; the l'mell and tarte of different ingredients are loft in one, which, by the dilution of the faliue parts with faliva, renders the food favourable *, but fuch particles as are more volatile and penetrating, being diredfly abforbed by the bibu- lous vefiels of the tongue and checks, enter ftraight into the blood veffels and nerves, fo as to caufe an immediate recruit of the faculties. The motions which are neceffiry for turning round the food, applying it to the teeth, and conveying it through the different parts of the mouth in maftication, are performed by the tongue, cheeks, and lips. And firlt, the tongue being expanded fo as to form a fmali concavity in its back or furface, takes up the food, and conveys it to the parts for which it is defigned. At one time the tongue, rendered narrow by late- ral contraction, fearches every [rart of the mouth with its tip, and turns out the latent food into a heap on its common con- cavity. At another time, applying its extremity to the fore- teeth, and railing itfelf up fuccelfivdy, it draws from the ca- vity of the mouth the fl 1 ids or chewed aliments, and conveys them to the fauces or back part of the mouth behind the teeth. Thefe motions of the tongue are likewife governed by the mufcles and membranes inferted in the os hyoides ; and this bone being drawn down by its refpe&ive mufcles, depreffes the tongue, and alfo the lower jaw, if its mufcles be relaxed. Thefe mufcles are the fterno hyoidaeus, fterno thyroidaeus, hyo-thyroidaeus, thyro-pharyngaeus, and coraco- hyoidaeus. The other mufcles which elevate the os hyoides, together with the tongue, are the Jlylo glojfus, fufrained by a peculiar li. lament of the upper jaw. The Jlylo-hyoidaeus, and fecon <\ Jlylo- byoidacuiAND ITS APPENDAGES. Chap. I. 193 hyoideus, which, when it is prefent, refembles the former. All thefe mufcles draw the tongue back, but laterally they elevate it. The mylohyoidaeus elevates the tongue, and fixes it in making various motions, or in like manner deprefies the jaw. The gemohyoidaeus, being a companion of the genio- gloflus, pulls the tongue forward out of the mouth. The mufcles of the cheeks varioufly move and prefs the food in the mouth. Others move it from the cavity of the cheeks into the inner cavity of the mouth behind the teeth, as we fee in the buccinator when the mouth is fhut. Others open the mouth for receiving the food, fuch as the double- headed proper elevator of the upper lip, and the elevator anguli oris ; to which add the zygomatici, upper and lower; the buccinator, deprefior anguli oris, and depreflor labii in- ferioris. Others again clofe the lips, that the food received may not return out of the mouth; as the orbicularis of each lip, the proper deprefior of the upper lip, and the proper elevator of the lower lip, and that which ferves in common for the elevation of both. By thefe means the food, ground and mixed with the fali- va into a foft pulp, collected from all parts of the mouth by the tongue, into the arched fpace between the teeth, is after- ward, by the expanfion and fucceffive preflure of the tongue, conveyed backward behind the teeth; and, in this adtion, the tongue is expanded by the hyoglofii and genioglofii, and rendered a little concave by the ftylogloflus. And from thence it is next conveyed into the fauces. For the tongue being raiCed by the ftyloglofii, and broadly applied to the palate, firft by its apex, then alfo infenfibly by its pofterior extremity, prefies the food fucceffively towards the fauces, which at that time only afford an open paffage. After this, the thick root and back part of the tongue itfelf, by the forementioned mufcles, and by the ftylohoidaei and biventers carried backward, prefies down the epiglottis, which Vol. If. B b ftandsi94 THE MOUTH, Part Vf. v ^ands up behind the tongue, connected therewith by nume- rous membranes, and perhaps by fome mufcular fibres. At the fame time, the mufcles elevating the pharynx all a£l to- gether j fuch as the biventer, geniohyoideus, genioglofius, ftylohyoideus, ftylogloffus, ftylopharyngeus, and the other elevators, which now draw the larynx upward and forward, that the epiglottis, being brought nearer to the convex root of the tongue, may be better clofed or deprefled. Hence it is neceflary toward deglutition, for the jaws to be clofed, that by this means the biventer may have a firm fupport, and, together with the mufcles already defcribed, elevate the os hyoides. Thus the epiglottis, being inverted, (huts up and clofely covers the pafiage into the larynx, over which the aliments pafs, as over a bridge, into the fauces. The pharynx is dilated in its action by the powers ferving to its elevation fuch as theJlylopharyiigeus, the thyreopalatinus, &lc. and it clofely furrounds and follows the drink, on each fide of the epiglottis, above the larynx, that it may from thence fall into the oefophagus. That the aliment might not regurgitate into the noftrils at the time when it is prefied into the dilated pharynx, a move- able velum or palate is interpofed. The elevator of this velum, with its companion, forms an arch, which is moveable with the palate itfel'f, between the two plates of the thyreo- palatinus mufcle, fo as to be brought into a clofe contadl with the hides of the nares and with the tubes, that none of the aliment may enter into either of them. But this elevator does not feem to have any confiderable adtion in fwallowing. At this time regurgitation into the noftrils is prevented by a conftrieftion of the mufcles of the pharynx, together with a depreffure of the thyreo-palatinus, which then manifeftly draws the moveable velum downward, and towards the tongue add pharynx. Add to thefe, the circumfltxus palati mollis, which is able both to open the tube, and to prefs down thei Chap. I. AND ITS APPENDAGES. 195 the moveable velum of the palate. Thus the pharynx being contracted like a fphinCter, drives down the food, without permitting any part to return into the cavity of the nares. Hence, when the velum of the palate is vitiated, the aliments 1 regurgitate into the noftrils, and a deafnefs enfues. During this endeavour to deprefs the food by the pharynx, : the velum, drawn back and expanded, is pulled down towards ;the tongue by the aCtion of the palato-pharyngei, and by the < circumflex mufcles of the foft palate. Thefe mufcles, toge- ther with the gloflo-palatinus, prefs the velum againfl the protuberant root of the tongue, and intercept any return to the mouth and noftrils. After there is no further danger of . any part falling into the trachea, the epiglottis is raifed up :again, as well by its own elafticity, as by the elevation of : the tongue itfelf, by which it is drawn forward. Laftly, the deprefled uvula is raifed by the azygos, which arifes from the tendons of the circumflexi mi fc'.es and levator of the foft [palate. A little after this follows an attempt to urge the food .downward, which is exerted by the conftriClor mufcles of the [pharynx which draw the fore parts towards the back, and 1 by the mufcles, which are partly tranfverfe, and partly afcend iinto the poftcrior furface of the pharynx. Thefe mufcles, aCling fucceflively from above downward, according to their fltuation, drive the aliment into the oefophagus. At the fame time the deprefling mufcles of the larynx, coraco- hyoidaeus, fterno-hyoidaeus, and fterno-thyreoidaeus, draw ddown the larynx forward, and leflening the capacity of the pharynx, urge the food downward. But in this aCtion, as the aliment pafles by the pofterior rima of the glottis, the arytae- noidei contract the larynx perpendicularly. As various dry and rough bodies are frequently (wallowed, it was neceflary for the pharynx to be dilatable, and not very fenfible of pain -, to which end the great quantity of mucus, which196 THE MOUTH, &c. Part VI. which is collefled in all parts of the fauces, greatly conduces. Therefore, in general, between the nervous and innermoft. coat of the pharynx, a great number of Ample mucous folli- cles or cells are placed, pouring out their mucus through fhort mouths; of a foft, and fomewhat watery nature; but ropy and vifcid, abounding with oil and volatile falts, and more earth than the faliva itfclf. The aliments are moved through the oefophagus as through an inteftine. The longitudinal fibres, afcending to the carti- lages of the larynx, dilate the gullet, oppofite to the defen- ding morfel. But, when it is received, the longitudinal fibres equally dilate and elevate the gullet at that place which re- ceives it. Then that part of the oefophagus where the mor- fel is feated, being irritated, contracts, and moves the food downward. This mufcle is ftrong, and very irritable. The upper opening of the ftomach is contra&ed or com- preficd in fuch a manner, by the lower mufcle of the dia- „ phragm, in every infpiration, as to confine the food within the ftomach, and direft it in every exfpiration, by preflure, naturally towards the pylorus. By this means, the ftomach is fo clofely fhut, that, in the moft healthy man, even wind or vapours are confined within it j nor do they ever afcend but by a morbid affe&ion. CHAP.Chap. II. HI THORAX CHAP. II. Of the Thorax. BY the thorax we commonly underftand all that part of the body which anfwers to the extent of the fternum, ribs, and vertebrae of the back, both outwardly and inward- ly- The thorax is divided into the anterior part, called com- monly the breajl; the pofterior part, called the back; and the lateral parts, called the right and leftfdes. The external parts of the thorax, befides the fkin and membrana adipofa, are principally the mammae ; and the mufcles which cover the ribs, and fill the fpaces between them. The mufcles are the peclorales majores and minores, fub- clavii, ferrati majores, ferrati fuperiores poftici, latifiimi dorfi, and vertebrales; and to thefe we may add the mufcles which cover the fcapula. The internal parts of the thorax are contained in the large tavity of that portion of the trunk which the antients called the middle venter, but the moderns name it limply the cavity of the breaf. This cavity is lined by a membrane named pleura, which forms the mediaftinum; and contains the heart ' and lungs, with the vcfiels, &.c. which go in or from them : Through it, likewife, the oefophagus paffes to the ffcomach ; and part of the nerves are contaia»d in it which go to the contents of the abdomen. ExternalTHORAX. Part VI. 198 External conformation of the thorax. The whole extent of the thorax in a living fubjeift is commonly determined, not only by the fternum, vertebrae of the back and ribs, but alfo by all that fpace contained between the articulations of the two arms with the fcapulae and claviculae; and in this fenfe the outfide of the thorax is broader above than below, in a healthy fubjeft, who has a moderate fihare of flefh on his bones. The breadth of the upper part of the breaft is owing to the petftorales majores and latiffimi dorfi viewed dire&ly forward or backward. But, when we take a dire& lateral view of the breaft, it appears narrower above than below, not only in an entire fubjedt, but even after every thing has been removed that covers the fides of the thorax, and in the lkeleton it- felf. 4 The common integuments of the thorax are the fame with thofe of the abdomen j and the convex fide of this part of the body is likewife covered by fevcral mufcles. Anteriorly, we find the pedtorales majores and minores, a large portion of the ferrati majores, the fubclavii, a portion of the fealeni and of the obliqui abdominis externi. Pofteriorly, we have all the mufcles which cover both fides of the fcapula, the ferrati poftici, and a part of the facro-lumbares, longifiimi dorfi, vertebrales. See. as in the hiftory of the mufcles. Among all the external parts of the thorax, only two are peculiar to it in the human body; namely, the two eminences called mam- mae, which muft therefore be deferibed in this chapter. Cavity of the thorax. The hard parts which form the fides of the cavity of the thorax, are, the twelve vertebrae of the back, all the ribs, and the fternum. The foft parts which complete the fides are, the membrane called pleura, which lines the cavity, and the mufeuli intercoftales, fterno-coftales, and diaphragma, already deferibed among the mufcles. AllChap. If. M A M M M. *99 All thefe hard and foft parts, taken together, reprefent a kind of cage, In fome meafure of a conical figure, flatted oil the forefide, deprefled on the backfide, and in a manner divi- ded into two nooks by the figure of the vertebrae of the back, and terminated below by a broad arched bafis inclined back- ward. The intercofial mufcles fill up the interftices between the ribs, and fo complete the fides of the cavity : The bafis is the diaphragm; and the pleura not only covers the whole inner furface of the cavity, but, by forming the mediaftinum, divides it into two, one on the right, the other on the left. § I. Mammae. The name of mammae, or breajls, is given to two eminen- ces, more or lefs round, fituated in the anterior, and a little toward the lateral parts of the thorax, their centre or middle part lying almoft oppofite to the bony extremity of the fixth true rib on each fide. Their fize and figure vary in the dif- ferent fexes and. different ages. In children of both fexes, and in males of all ages, they are commonly no more than cutaneous tubercles, or foft verrucae of a reddilh colour, called papillae or nipplesj each of them being furrounded by a fmall, thin, and pretty broad circle or difk, more or lefs of a brownifh colour, and an uneven fur- face, termed areola. In females come to the age of puberty, which is fome- times fooner, fometimes later, a third part is joined to the two former, which is a convex protuberance, more or lefs round, of about five or fix fingers in breadth; the papilla and areola being fituated near the middle of its convex fur- face. This is what is properly called mamma; and it may be termed the body of the breajlt when compared with the other two parts. - It increafes with age, and is very large in women with child, and in thofc that give fuck. In old age it20* MAMM JE. Part Vh it decreases, and becomes flabby, lofing Its natural confidence and folidity. Body of the mamma. The body of the mamma is partly glandular, and partly confifts of fat j or it is a gland of the conglomerate kind, furrounded on all fides with cellular fub- ftance and fat. The glandular part is divided into little maf- fes, feparated alfo by fat, and again fubdivided into fmall granulae, from which the ladifcrous duds arife: The cellu- lous pelliculae fupport a great many blood-veflels, lymphatics, and ferous or laflifcrous duds, together with the fmall glan- dular moleculae already mentioned; all of them being clofe* ly furrounded by two membranes continued from the pelli- culae. The innermoft of thefe two membranes, which Is in a manner the bafis of the body of the mamma, is thick, and almoft flat, adhering to the mufculus pedoralis major. The fecond, or external membrane, is thinner, forming a parti- cular integument for the body of the mamma, more or lefs convex, and adhering clofely to the Ikin. The corpus adipofum of the mammaf in particular, is a fpongy duller, more or lefs interlarded with fat, or a collec- tion of membranous pelliculae, which, by the particular dif- pofition of their outer fides, form a kind of membrane in fhape of a bag, in which all the reft of the corpus adipofum is contained. The anterior or outer portion of this bag, or that which touches the fkin, is very thin; but that fide next the pedoralis major is thick. Dufius laEliferi. The glandular body contains a white mafs, which is merely a colledion of membranous duds, narrow at their origin, broad in the middle, and which con- trad again as they approach the papilla, near which they were fuppofed by fome to form a circle of communication; but, from the obfervations of the lateft anatomifts, the duds have little or no communication with each other at this place.fchap. II. MAM M M. 201 place. They are named duflus ladtiferi; and, in their courfe* are accompanied by a ligamentous elaftic fubftance, which terminates with them in the nipple. Both this fubftance, and. the du<fts it contains, are capable of confiderable extenfion and contraction ; but, in their natural ftate, they are mode- rately corrugated, fo as to prevent an involuntary flow of milk, unlefs the diftending force be very great, from the ac- cumulation of too great a quantity. Areola. The coloured circle or diflc, already mentioned, i$ formed by the Ikin; the inner furface of which fuftains a great number of fmall glandular moleculae, of that kind which Morgagni calls glandulae febaceae. They appear very plainly all over the areola, even on the outfide, where they form little flat heights or eminences, at different diftances, quite round the circle. Thefe tubercles are perforated by fmall holes, through which a kind of febaceous matter, more or lefs liquid, is poured out, to defend the areola and nipple. Sometimes one or more of the la&iferous duCts have been found to ter- minate upon the furface of the areola. Hence Morgagni was led to think that the glands there are of the lactiferous kind. Papilla. The tubercle which lies in the centre of the are- ola, is termed papilla, or the nipple. It is of different fizes in different ages and conftitutions, and in the different condi- tions of females in particular. In women with child, or who give fuck, it is large, and generally longer or higher than it is thick or broad j and, when it happens to be fliort, it caufes great uneafinefs to the child. Ihe texture of the nipple is fpongy, elaftic, and liable to divers changes of conflftence, being fometimes harder, fome- times more flaccid. It feems to confift chiefly of ligamentary fafciculi; the extremities of which form the balls and apex of the nipple. Thefe fafciculi appear to be gentiy folded, or curled, during their whole length ; and if, by drawing the Vol. II. C c fibresM A- M M M . 202 Part VI* fibres outy thefe folds be deftroyed, they return again as foon as that action ceafes. Between thefe fpongy and elaftic fafciculi, from twelve to fifteen or twenty particular tubes are lodged at fmall diftances from each other, and all in the fame direction. Thefe tubes go to the balls of the papilla, and run through the apex by the fame number of almoft imperceptible holes or orifices j and as they are clofely united to the elaftic fafciculi, they are folded in the latpe manner with them. The body of the papilla is covered by a thin cutaneous production, and by the epidermis. Its outer furface is un- even, being full of fmall tubercles and wrinkles ; among which, thofe near the circumference of the nipple feem to have a tranfverfe or annular difpofition, which, however, is not uniform. This difpofition or direction feems to be owing to the elaf- tic folds already mentioned : And, from this fimple ftruc- ture, it is eafy to explain how infants, in fucking the nipple, and women in drawing the teats of cows, bring out the milk. For the excretory tubes, being wrinkled in the fame manner as the fafciculi, do, by thefe wrinkles or folds, as by fo many valves, hinder the milk contained in the ducts from flowing out ; but, when the nipple is drawn and elongated, the tubes lofe their folds, and the pafiage becomes ftraight. Befides this, when they are drawn with a confiderable force, the whole body of the mamma is increafed in length, and con- tracted in breadth, and thereby the milk is prefTed into the open tubes ; and thus, by barely prefling the body of the breaft, the milk may be forced toward the nipple, and even through the tubes. Thofe who underftand the principles of the air-pump will more readily conceive the manner in which the child draws out the milk. Arteries, veins, nerves, &c. The arteries and veins, diftrr- _ buted through the mammae, are ramifications of the arteriae and iChap. II. PLEURAE and MEDIASTINUM. *03 and venae mammariae; of which one kind comes from ths fubclaviae, and are named mammariae internae; the others, from the axillares, called mainmariae extcrnae. Thefe velTels communicate with each other, with thofe near them, and with the vafa epigaftrica. The nerves come chiefly from the coftales, and, by means of thefe, communi- cate with the great nervi fympathetici. The mamma has numerous lymphatic veflels, which Wrilberg obferves run in two fets : Mod of thefe veflels gradually collect into a great plexus, which go to the axillary glands; but others enter the thorax, through the interftices of the ribs, near the fter- num, and communicate with the glands behind the mam- mary veflels. § 3. Pleurae and Mediajlinum. The pleura is a membrane which adheres very clofely to the inner furface of the ribs, fternum, and mufculi interco da- les, fub-coftales, and fterno-coflales, and to the convex fide of the diaphragm. It is of a very firm texture, and is fup- plied with blood-veflels and nerves, in all which it refem- bles the peritonaeum ; and likewife in its confifting of an inner true membranous lamina, and a cellular fubftance on the outfide. " Each fide of the thorax has its particular pleura, entirely diftintt from the other, and making, as it were, two great bladders, fituated laterally with refpefl to each other in the great cavity of the bread, in fuch a manner as to form a double feptum or partition running between the vertebrae and the fternum, their other fides adhering to the ribs aud diaphragm. This particular duplicature of the two pleurae is termed mediajlinum. The two laminae of which it confifts are clofely united together near the fternum and vertebrae; but, in the middle.204 PLEURiE and MEDIASTINUM. Part VI. rfiiddle, and toward the lower part of the forefide, they are feparated by the pericardium and heart, as we fhall fee here- after. A little more backward, they are parted in a tubular form by the oefophagus, to which they ferve as a covering ; and in the moft pofterior part a triangular fpace is left, be- tween the vertebrae and the two pleurae from above down- ward, which is filled chiefly by the aorta. Before the heart, from the pericardium to the fternum, the two laminae adhere very clofely ; and there the mediaf- tinum is tranfparent, except for a fmall fpace near the upper part, where the thymus is fituated ; fo that in this place there is naturally no interftice or particular cavity. The apparent fcparation is owing entirely to the common method of railing the fternum, as was plainly demonftrated by Bartholinus, in his Treatife of the Diaphragm, publilhed at Paris in 1676. The mediaftinum does not commonly terminate along the middle of the infide of the fternum, as was commonly fuppofed. Window demonftrated, in the year 1715, to the Royal Academy of Sciences, that from above downward, it inclines toward the left fide $ and that if, before the thorax is opened, a fharp inftrument be run through the middle of the fternum, there will be almoft the breadth of a finger be- tween the inftrument and the mediaftinum, provided that the fternum remain in its natural fituation, and the cartilages of the ribs be cut at the diftance of an inch from it on each fide. From all this, we fee, not only that the thorax is divided into two cavities entirely feparated from each other by a middle feptum, without any communication ; but alfo that, by the obliquity of this partition, the right cavity is greater than the left; but there are exceptions to the above deferip- tions. Lieutaud fays he has met with feveral fubjedls in which the mediaftinum defeended along the middle of the fternum 5 and others, where it was inclined to the left fide. SabatierChap. II. PLEURAE and MEDIASTINUM. *0; Sabatier obferves that this is rare ; but he has likewife met ■with feveral examples, where an inftrument thruft through the middle of the fternum got into the left cavity of the thorax : And he has lomctimes feen the right lamina of the mediafti- nura fixed to the middle of the fternum, while the left one was fixed oppofite to the articulation with the cartilages of the ribs; a fpace being left between the two, which was filled with cellular fubftance, intermixed with fat. Prom hence we may judge of the uncertainty of trepanning the fternum, which the antients have recommended in fome cafes of ab- feefles, &.c. between the layers of the mediaftinum. The pleura is connected to the membranous portion of the fternum, ribs, and mufdes ; to the diaphragm, pericardium, thymus, and veflels; and, in a word, to whatever lies near its convex fide. The furface of the pleura turned to the cavities of the breafi: is continually moiftened by a lymphatic ferofity which tranfudes through the pores of the membranous portion. This fluid is faid to be fccreted by imperceptible glands; but the exiftence of thefe glands has not been hitherto demon- ftrated. Arteries and veins. The arteries and veins of the pleura are chiefly ramifications of the intercoftales; and thefe rami- fications are exceedingly numerous, and for the mod: part very fmall. The mammariae internae and diaphragmaticae like- wiie fend branches hither, which communicate very frequent- ly with thofe that come from the intercoftals. The mediaftinum has particular veflels, called arteriae and venae medinjlinae, which are commonly branches of the fub- claviae. The mammariae internae feud likewife ramifications to the fore-part of it, the diaphragmaticae to the lower part, and the .intercoftales and oefophageae to the back-part. Nerves. The nerves, which are few, are ramifications of the true intercodales. Near the vertebrae they communicate with106 THYMUS.. Part VI. with the great fympathetic nerves, and but very little with the eighth pair. U/e. The pleura ferves in general for an inner integument to the cavity of the thorax. The mediaftinum cuts off all communication between the two cavities, and hinders one lung from prefiing on the other when we lie on one fxde. It likewife forms receptacles for the heart, pericardium, oefo- phagus, &c. j and it is continued over the lungs in the man- ner which fhall be explained hereafter. Before we leave the pleura, it mull be obferved, that it adheres firmly to the ribs. This adheGon keeps the pleura ftretched, and hinders it from flipping or giving way. It likewife renders this membrane extremely fenflble of the leaft reparation caufed by coagulated lymph or accumulated blood; the nervous filaments being likewife, in this cafe, very much comprefled in infpiration by the fwelling of the intercoftal mufcles. § I. Thymus. The thymus is an oblong very foft glandular body, round on the upper part, and divided below into two or three great lobes, of which that toward the left fide is the longeft. In the foetus it is of a large fize, lefs in children, and in aged perfons very little. In children it is of a white colour, fome- times mixed with red j but, in an advanced age, its colour is generally dark. The greateft part of the thymus lies between the duplica- ture of the fuperior and anterior portion of the mediaftinum, and the great veflfels of the heart ; from whence it reaches a little higher than the tops of the two pleurae, fo that fome part of it is out of the cavity of the thorax; and in the foe- tus and in children, it lies as much without, as within the thorax, and is then compofed of numerous lobules, each inclofed20? PERICARDIUM. Chap. II. inclofed in a thin covering, and united together by cellular fubflance: Thefe are hollow within, and communicate to-* gether fomewhat like the cells of the lungs; but they contain a milky fluid, which readily appears after an opening is made, but this fluid vanifhes foon after birth. Among the various opinions about the ufe of this fubflance, fome have thought it ferved only to fill a part of the thorax of the foetus in the collapfed ftate of the lungs, becaufe its fize decreafes after the lungs are dilated. Its particular inward ftruflure and fecretions are not as yet fufficiently known, fo as to enable us to determine its ufes ; which, however, feem to be defigned more for the foetus than for adults. It has veflels belonging to it, called arteriae and venae thymicae; which are branches from the laryngaea infe- rior and mammaria interna. § 5. Pericardium. The heart, with all the parts belonging to it, is contained in a membranous capfula, called pericardium, which is in fome meafure of a conical figure, and fbmewhat bigger than the heart; but the difference muff be lefs during life when the heart is full of blood. It is not fixed to the bafis of the heart, but round the large veins above the auricles, before they fend off the ramifications, and round the large arteries, before their divifions. The pericardium is made up of three laminae, the middle and chief of which is compofed of very fine tendinous fila- ments, which are beft feen in old pcrfons; they are clofely interwoven, and crofs each other in different directions. The internal lamina feems to be a continuation of the outer coat of the heart, auricles, and great veflels. The trunks of the aorta and pulmonary artery have one common cgat, which contains them both as in a fheath, and is lined on the infid* by2o8 Pericardium, part vi by a cellular fubftance, chiefly in that fpace which lies be- tween where the trunks are turned to each other, and the fides of the {heath. There is but a very fmall portion of the inferior vena cava contained in the pericardium. It is the middle lamina which chiefly forms the pericar- dium ; and the figure of this bag is not fimply conical, its apex or point being very round, and the balls having a par- ticular elongation which furrounds the great veflels, as am- ply as the other portion furrounds the heart. The pericardium is clofely connected to the diaphragm, not to the apex, but exactly at that place which anfwers to the flat or lower fide of the heart; and it is a very difficult matter to feparate it from the diaphragm in diflcdlion, the tendinous fibres of the one fubftance intermixing with thofe of the other. This adhering portion is in l'ome meafure of a triangular fhape, anfwering to that of the lower fide of the heart; and the reft of the bag lies upon the diaphragm, with- out any adhefion. The external lamina, or common covering, as it may mor6 properly be called, is formed by the duplicature of the me- diaftinum. It adheres to the proper bag of the pericardium by the intervention of the cellular fubftance in that duplica- ture, but leaves it where the pericardium adheres to the dia- phragm, on the upper furface of which it is fpread, as being a continuation of the pleura. The internal lamina is perforated by an infinite number of very fmall holes, through which a ferous fluid continually tranfudes, in the fame manner as in the peritoneum ; there being no glands for this purpofe, as fome have fuppofed. The pericardium, at its fore part, receives arteries from the mammaria interna, and diaphragmatica: The lower part is fupplied by the diaphragmatica, while the pofterior furface has branches from the fubclavia, from the mammaria, and from the aorta, See. The veins correfporid with the arteries, exceptingHEART. 209 Chap. II. excepting fome which go to the vena azygos. The nerves are chiefly from the eighth pair, and great fympathetics. This fluid being gradually collected after death, makes what is called aqua pericardii, which is found in confiderabie quan- tities in opening dead bodies while they remain frefh. borne, times it is of a reddifh colour, which may be owing to a tranfudation of blood through the fine membrane of the au- ricles. § 6. Of the Heart. Situation in general and conformation. The heart is a muf- cular body, fituated in the cavity of the thorax, on the an- terior part of the diaphragm, between the two laminae of the mediaftinum. It is nearly of a conical figure, flatted on the fides, round at the top, and oval at the bafis. Accor- dingly we confider in the heart, the bafis; apex; two edges, the one right and the other left; and two fides, one of which is generally flat and inferior, the other more convex and fu- perior. Befides the mufcular body, which chiefly forms what we call the heart, its bafis is accompanied by two appendices, called auriculae, and by large blood vefiels ; of which hereaf- ter: And all thefe are included in the pericardium. • The heart is hollow within, and divided by a feptunt which runs between the edges into two cavities, called ven- triculi; one of which is thick and folid ; the other thin and foft. This latter is generally termed the right ventricle, the other the left ventricle; though, in their natural fituation, the right ventricle is placed more anteriorly than the left, as we fhall fee hereafter. Each ventricle opens at the bafis by two orifices; one of which anfwers to the auricles, the other to the mouth of a large artery ; and accordingly one of them may be termed Vot. II. D d theHEAR T. Part VI. 210 the auricular orifice, the other the arterial orifice. The right ventricle opens into the right auricle, and into the trunk of the pulmonary artery 5 the left into the left auricle, and into the great trunk cf the aorta. At the edges of thefe orifices are found feveral moveable pelliculae, called valves by anato- iriifts ; of which feme arc turned inward toward the cavity of the ventricles, called triglochines, or tricufpidcs; others are turned toward the great vefiels, called femilunares', or figmoi- ilales. The valvulae tricufpides of the left ventricle are like- i wife termed mitrales. Viniriculi. The inner furface of the ventricles is very un- even, many eminences and cavities being obfervable in it. The mod confiderable eminences are thick flefhy productions, called columnae. To the extremities of thefe pillars are faf- tened leveral tendinous cords, the other ends of which are joined to the valvulae tricufpides. There are likewife other fmall Ihort tendinous ropes along both edges of the feptum between the ventricles. Thefe fmall cords lie in an oblique tranfverfe fituation, and form a kind of net work at different diftances. The cavities of the inner furface of the ventricles are fmall deep foflulae or lacunae placed very near each other, with fmall prominent interfaces between them. The greateft part of thefe lacunae are orifices of the venal ducts, to be deferr- ed hereafter. Structure of the ventricles. The flefhy or mufcular fibres, of which the heart is made up, arc difpoled in a very lingu- lar manner, efpecially thofe of the right or anterior ventricle > being either bent into arches or folded into angles. The fibres which are folded into angles are longer than thofe which are only bent into arches. The middle of thefe arches, and the angles of the folds, are turned toward the apex of the heart, and the extremities of the fibres toward the balls.' Thefe fibres differ not only in length, but in their directions.HEAR T. 211 Chap. II. direflions, which arc very oblique in all, but much more fo in the long or folded fiiaies than in the Ihort ones, which are limply bent. It is commonly laid that this obliquity reprefents the figure 8 ; but the comp'arifon is very falle, and can only agree to fome bad figures drawn by perlons ignorant of the laws of petite ^ All thefe fibres, regard being had to their different obli- quity and length, are difpofed in fuch a manner, as that the longeft form partly the mod external ftrata on the convex fide of the heart, and partly the moll internal on the con- cave fide; the middle of the arches and the angles meeting obliquely and fucceffively to form the apex. The fibres fituated within thefe long ones grow gradually fhorter and ftraighter all the way to the bafis of the heart, where they are very fhort, and very little in-curvated. By this difpofition the fides of the ventricles are very thin near the apex of the heart, and very thick toward the bafis. Each ventricle is compofed oi its proper dillindt fibres; but the left ventricle has many more than the right, its fub- ftance being conliderably thicker. Where the two ventricles are joined, they form an impervious leptum which belongs equally to both. Oppolite to this leptum a groove is feen on the outfide of the heart; one running longitudinally on its upper, the other on its under furface: In thefe grooves the great branches of the coronary arteries and veins are lodged. There is this likewife peculiar to the left ventricle, that the fibres which form the innermoft llratum of its concave fide, form the outermoft ftratum of the whole convex fide of the heart, which confequently is common to both ven- tricles; fo that, by carefully unravelling all the fibres of the heart, we find it to be made no of two bags contained in a third. TheI 212 HEART. Part VI. The anterior or right ventricle is fome what larger than the potterior or left, as was well obferved by the antients, and clearly demonftrated by M. Helvetius. The left is a little longer than the right, and in fome fubje&s they end exteriorly in a kind of double apex. But it appears from experiments, that the inequality between the parts of the right and thofe of the lett fide of the heart are not fo great during life as after death; for, in the hearts of animals killed by cutting acrofs the vefi'els of the neck, and in thofe of per- fons who have died in battle from a wound in the vena cava or pulmonary artery, the inequality is lefs than, we commonly find it. This was firft obferved by M. Vieuffens proteffor of anatomy at Altorf. Sabatier has made numerous experiments on animals, the refult of which is nearly the fame with that mentioned above. All the fibres are not dire&ed the fame way, though they are all more or lefs oblique: For fome end toward the right, others toward the left, fome forward, fome backward, and others in the intermediate places; fo that, in unravelling them, we find that they crois each other gradually, fome- times according to the length of the heart, and iometimes according to its breadth. The tubes which crofs each other tranfverfely are much more numerous than thofe which crofs longitudinally; which ought to be taken notice of, that we may rectify the falfe no- tions that have been entertained concerning the motion of the heart, namely, that it is performed by a contortion or twitt- ing like that of a fcrew, or that the heart is fhortencd in the ~ time of contra&ion, and lengthened in dilatation. The fibres which compofe the inner or concave furface of the ventricles do not all reach to the bafis, fome of them run- ning into the cavity, and there forming the flefhy colum- nae, to which the loofe floating portion of the tricufpidal val- ves is fattened by tendinous ropes. BefidesHEART. I Chap. II. 213 Befides thefe fiefhy pillars, the internal fibres form a great imanv eminences and depreflions, which not only render the ; inner furface of the ventricles uneven, but give it a great ex- tent within a fmall compafs. Some of thefe deprellions are the orifices of the venal du£ts found in the lubftance of the ventricles, which have been already mentioned. The cir- cumferences of the great openings at the bafis of the heart are tendinous, and may be looked upon as the common ten- don of all the flefhy fibres of which the ventricles are com. poled. Valvulae. The valves at the orifices of the ventricles are of two kinds :‘One kind allows the blood to enter the heart, and hinders it from going out the lame way; the other kind allows the blood to go our of the heart, but hinders it from returning. The valves of the firff kind terminate the auri- culae; and thole of the lecond lie in the openings of the great arteries. The fir!! are termed ftmilunar or Jigmoidal valves ; the others, triglochines, tricufpidal, or mitral. The tricufpidal valve of the right ventricle is of a circular form, and is fixed to the opening of the auricle, while the other end is attached to the internal lurfac'e of the ventricle. The circular membrane of the valve foon divides into many parts, three of which are more confiderable than the reft ; and thefe have got the name of trieufpid valves, though they are now generally confidered as forming one. That which is next the mouth of the pulmonary artery is the large!!, and fome anatomifis think that it prevents the blood from get- ting into the artery while the ventricle is filling. It has three triangular produdlions, very fmooth and polifhed on that fide which is turned toward the auricle; but on the fide next the cavity of the ventricle, they have feveral membra- nous and tendinous expanfions, and their edges are notched or indented. The valve of the auricular orifice of the left ventricle is of the fame fihape and ftru&ure, but it is only dividedHEART. 214 Fart Vr, divided into two parts ; and, from fome fmall refemblance to a mitre, has been named mitralis. That which is next the mouth of the aorta is the Iargeft. The femilunar valves are fix in number, three belonging to each ventricle, fituated at the mouths of the great arteries; and they may be properly enough named valvulae arteriales. Their concave fides are turned toward the cavity of the arte- ries, and their convex fides approach each other. In exami- ning them with a microfcope, we find flefhy fibres lying- in the duplicatur^ of the membranes of which they are com- pofed. • They are truly femilunar, or in form of a crefcent, on that fide by which they adhere; but their loofe edges are of a dif- ferent figure, each cf them reprefenting two fmall crefcents ; the two extremities of which meet at the middle of this edge, and there form a kind of fmall papilla, firft deferibed by Arantius, and afterwards by Morgagni, and therefore named- from them. The aorta in general. The great artery that goes out from the left ventricle, is termed aorta. As it goes out, it turns a little toward the right, and then bends obliquely back- ward, to form what is called aorta defeendem ; which we fhall have occafion to mention again hereafter. At the be- I ginning of the aorta, and behind the femilunar valves, three elevations are obferved on the outfide: Thefe correfpond to an equal number of pits on the infide, which, from the dif- coverer, have been called fmufes of Val/alva. Their ule is nor well known. From about the middle of the convex fide of this curvature three great branches arife, which furnifh an infinite number of ramifications to the head and upper ex- tremities of the body ; as the defeending aorta does in the fame manner to the thorax, abdomen, and lower extremities. The nr term pttlmonaris in general. The trunk of the ar- tery which goes out from the right ventricle is called arteria « pultnonari;.pulmonaris. This trunk, as it is naturally fituated in the tho- rax, runs firft of all diredtly upward for a lmall ipace j then divides laterally into two principal branches, one for each lung*, that which goes to the right lung being the longeft, for a reafon that fhall be given hereafter. Auriculae. The auricles are mufcular bags f tuated at the baGs of. the heart, and their capacities are in proportion to thofe of their refpedtive ventricles; one towards the right ventricle, the other towards the left, and joined together by an inner feptuni and external communicating fibres, much in the fame manner with the ventricles j one of them being na- med the right auricley the other the Icjt. They are very un- even on the infide, but fmoother on the outfide ; and termi- nate in a narrow, flat, indented edge, reprelenting a cock’s cornb, or in fome meafure the ear of a dog. This properly gets the name of auricle, the larger and fmooth part of the cavity being called Jtnus venofus; bur, as the two parts make one general cavity, the name of auricle is commonly applied to the whole. They open into the orifices of each ventricle • called auricular orifices; and they are tendinous at their open- ing, in the fame manner as the ventricles. The right auricle is larger than the left \ and it joins the right ventricle by a common tendinous opening, as has been already obferved. It has two other openings united into one, and formed by two large veins which meet and terminate there, alinoft in a dircdl lme, called vena cava Jupenor and inferior. Highmore has deicribed an eminence in form of a I • v* valve, placed be1 ween the mouths of the two venae cavac : This he fuppofed diredts the blood from the veins into rhe auricle. Afterwards Lower deferibed and delineated it ; and other anatomilts have called it tuberculum Loweriy till Mor- gagni denied its exifter.ee in the human fubjedt. At the mouth of the inferior cava we find a membrane in form of a creftent, defenbed by Euftachius, and name d from him. Its convexPart VI.' 216 HEART. convex edge is fixed to the union of the vein and the right auricle, while its concave edge is turned upwards over the mouth of the vein. It is mod complete in the foetus ; but it is found likewife in perfons of advanced age, though it fome- times, from ufe, has a reticular appearance. It is f'aid to pre- vent the blood in the auricle from returning into the cava ; but it has a different ufe in the foetus. The notche’d edge of this auricle terminates obliquely in a kind of obtufe point, which is a fmall particular production of the great bag, and is turned toward the middle of the bafis of the heart. The whole inner furface of the right auricle is uneven, by reafon of a great number of prominent lines which run acrofs the tides of it, and communicate with each other by fmaller lines, which lie obliquely in the interfaces between the for* mer. The lines of the firft kind reprefent trunks ; and thofe of the other, fmall branches in an oppofite dire&ion to each other. In the interfaces between thefe lines, the tides of the auricle are very thin, and ahnott tranfparent, Teeming to be l formed merely by the external and internal coats of the auri- cle joined together, efpecially near the point. The left auricle is, in the human body, a kind of mufeu- lar bag or refervoir, of a confiderable thicknefs, and un- j equally fiquare, into which the four venae pulmonares open, arid which has a dittinft appendix belonging to it, like a third j fmall auricle. This bag is very even on both iurfaces, and is therefore called Jimis venofus ,• but, to diftinguilh it from the one on the right fide, it is called finus venofusfinifter. How- ever, the bag and appendix have but one common cavity j and the'efore they may flill be both comprehended under the common name of the left auricle. In men, the fmall portion may likewife be named the appendix of the left auricle ; but, in other animals, the cafe is different. This fmall portion or appendix of the left auricle is of a different ftruClure from that of the bag or large portion. Ex- teriorly,Chap. II. 217 HEART. teriorly, it refembles a fmall oblong bag, bent different ways, and indented quire round the edges- Interiorly, it is like the infide of the right auricle. The pv hole common cavity of the left auricie is lmaller in an adult fubjeft than that of the right; and the lldhy fibres of this left auricle crofs each other obliqaely, in lira offerentiy dilpofed. Artetiae et venae coronariae. Bolides t he great common vef- fels, the heart has veffeis peculiar to itfelf, called the coronary arteries and veins, becaule they in f'ome meafure crown the batis of the heart. The coronary arteries, which are two ill number, go out from the beginning of the aorta, and after- wards fpread themfelves round the balls of the heart, to the fubftance of which they fend numerous ramifications. Vieuffens believed that fome of the branches of the coro- nary artery opened into the cavities of the ventricles and au- ricles ; for, by throwing a fine injeftion into thefe arteries, he found it run out on all Tides of the right ventricle and au- ricle. Thebefius being nearly of the fame opinion, endea- voured to prove that there were veins which carried part of the blood from the coronary arteries immediately into the ca- vities of the heart; and thele have therefore got the n ame of veins of Thebefius, though he is not the fir ft difcoverer. Win- flow, Haller, and feveral others, defcribe fiich veins; but 4 Duverney, after injecting the heart of an elephant, doubts of their exifience. Senat, who has paid much attention to this fubjeft, denies it altogether; and Sabatier coincides with him in opinion. There are feldom more than two arteries ; of which one lies toward the right, the other toward the left of the an- terior third part of the circumference of the aorta. The right coronary artery runs in between the bafis and right auricle, all the way to the flat fide of the heart, and fo goes halfway round. The >eft artery has a like courfe between the bafis and left auricle ; and, before it runs on the bafis, it fends off a capital branch, which runs in between the two ventricles Yol- I[- E e AnotherHEART. Fart VL 2l8 Another principal branch goes off from the union of the two arteries on the flat fide of the heart j which running to the apex, there joins the other branch. The coronary veins are diftributed exteriorly, much in the lame manner. Ihe largeft opens into the pofterior inferior part of the right auricle, by an orifice which is furnilhed with a valve, firft deferibed by Euflachius. Befides the co- ronary veins, the heart has other anterior veins, which have been called by VieufTens venae innominatae. Some of them go into the right auricle, others end in the right ventricle ; and there are other veins fiill fmaller, which are found in the fubftance of the heart, and which terminate in the right fi- lms and auricle. The nerves of the hearty are from the par vagum and great fympathetics : Thefe form the cardiac plexus, which fends off branches to the pericardium, to the roots of the great vef- fels, and are fpent at laft on the different parts of the heart. Particular fituation of the heart. The heart lies almoft tranf- verfely on the diaphragm, the greateft part of it being in the left cavity of the thorax, and the apex being turned toward the bony extremity of the fixth true rib. The bafis is toward the right cavity ; and both auricles, efpecially the right, reft on the diaphragm *, but the fituation of the heart during life changes a little, according to the ftate of refpiration, and to the pofition of the body. The origin or bafis of the pulmonary artery is, in this na- tural fituation, the highefl: part of the heart on the forefide j and the trunk of this artery lies in a perpendicular plane, ■which may be conceived to pafs between the fternum and the fpina dorfi. Therefore fome part of the bafis of the heart is in the right cavity of the thorax ; and the reff, all the way to the apex, is in the left cavity; and it is for this reafon that the mediaftinum is turned toward that fide. According to this true and natural fituation of the heart, the parts commonly faid to be on the right fide are rather anterior..HEAR T. Chap. If. 219 # anterior, and thofe on the left fide pofterior ; and that fide of the heart which is thought to be the forefide is naturally the upper fide, and the backfide conlequently tjje lower fide. The lower fide is very flat, lying wholly on the diaphragm ; but the upper fide is a little convex through its whole length, in the direction of the feptum between the ventricles. And it may be proper here to remark, that, though commonly re- ceived terms of art may be (till retained, yet it is neceflary to prevent their communicating falfe ideas to thofe who have not had an opportunity of making obfervations themfelvcs, or of being infiruCted by others. Ufa in general. The heart, and the parts belonging to it, are the principal inftrurnents of the circulation of the blood. The two ventricles ought to be confidered as two fyringes, fo clofely joined together as to make but one body, and furnifh- ed with luckcrs placed in contrary directions to each other, lo that by drawing one of them a fluid is let in, and forced out again by the other. The heart is compofed of a fubftance capable of contraction and dilatation. When the fltfliy fibres of the ventricles are contracted, the two cavities are leficned in an equal and di« reCt manner, not by any contortion or twifting, as the fade refemblance of the fibres to a figure of 8 has made anatomifts imagine. For, if we conlider attentively in how many dif- ferent directions, and in how many places, thefe fibres crof's each other, as has been already obferved, we mutt lee clearly that the whole firuCture tends to make an even, direct, and uniform contraction, more according to the breadth or thick- nefs, than according to the length of the heart ; bccaufe the number of fibres fiiuated tranfverfely is much greater than the number of longitudinal fibres. The flelhy fibres thus contracted do the office of fuckers, by preffing upon the blood contained in the ventricles • which blood being thus forced toward the bafis of the heart, prefles the tricufpidal valves agair.fi: each other, opens the fc- milunares.220 Part VI. HEART. milunares, and rufhes with impetuofity through the arteries and their ramifications, as through To many elaftic tubes. The blood thus pufhed out by the contraction of the ventricles, and afterwards prefied by the elallic arteries, enters the capillary vefiels, and is from thence forced to re- turn by the veins to the auricles, which, like retirements, porches, or antichambers, receive and lodge the blood return- ed by the veins during the rime of a new contraction. This contraction of the heart is by anatomiffs termed fyjlsle. Dinjloie. The contraction or fyfiole of the ventricles ceafes immediately, by the relaxation ot their fldivy fibres; and, in that time, the auricles which contain the venal blood, being contracted, force the blood through the tricufpidal valves into the ventricles, the Tides of which are thereby dilated, and their cavities enlarged. This dilatation is termed aiajlole. Circulation. In this manner does the heart, by the alter- nate fyfiole and diaffole ot its ventricles and auricles, pufh the blood through tlie arteries to all the parts of the body, and receive it again by the veins. This is called the circulation of the bleocl, which is carried on in three different manners. The rirff and moil univerlal kind of circulation is that by which almoff all the arteries of the body are filled by the fyfiole of the heart, and the greatft part of the veins evacu- ated bv the diaftoie. 4 The fecond kind of circulation, oppofitc to the fir ft, is through the coronary vefiels of the heart, the arteries of which are filled with blood during the diaffole of the ventri- cle , and the veins emptied during the fyfiole. The third kind of circulation is that of the left ventricle of the heart; through the venal duffs of which a finall quantity of blood pafies, without going through the lungs, which is the courfe of all the remaining mafs of blood. Befides. thefe three different, kinds of circulation, there arc fome peculiarities in the courfe of the blood, which may be lookedHEAR T. 221 Chap. II. looked upon as particular circulations. Such is the paffage of the blood through the liver, corpora cavernofa of the parts of generation, and through the cavernous finules of the dura mater. Nature hath given a heart to moft animals, even to many infefts and worms ; to others {he hath denied it; and thefe are the moll fimple of all .inimals, and are irritable through- out their whole body ; they are alfo fometimes very large, as we fee in many fpecies of the hydra. Thofe animals which have no hearts nave alfo no veflels. i he blood of the two venae cavae is propelled by a mufcu- lar force, in either vein, into the right auricle. Thefe veins, while they lie within the thorax, are endowed with llrong and irritable mufcular fibres, by whofe contradhon the blood is driven into the neighbouring auricle. In like manner, the auricle, being irritated, is contradled on all fides. Firfl, by a conl'tridlion of its nmlcular fibies, the anterior femicylinder of the auricle is reduced to a plane i while the fame fibres, by their contradlion, bring back the middle arch towards the anterior extremity or beginning of the heart, and likewife towards its poflerior extremity or fi- lms ; afterwards the appendix of the auricle defcends, and is contradled tranfverfely, while the lower part aicends ; and thus the auricle becomes fhorter : And, lafily, the left edge turns evidently to the right, and the right edge a little to the left ; and thus the auricle ,is rendered narrower. The blood of both cavae muft neceflarily, therefore, be driven through the open valves of the right ventricle of the heart: becaufe the blood is hindred from returning again into the lower cava, by the contra&ion of the auricle, by the refiftance of the fucceeding blood from the abdomen, and by means of the Eujlachian valve; and is hindered from afeending, both by the motion and weight of the confcquent blood. It is driven back,,Part VI. 22Z HEAR T. back, however, on both fides, if there happens to be any ob- ftacle in the lungs. The ufe of the valvulae tricufpides is fufficiently evident ; for the right auricle being contracted, the blood is forced through the auricular orifice, and, like a wedge, feparates the pendulous portions of the valves, and prefies them to the lides of the heart; while the uppermoft valve lhuts the pul- monary artery, left the blood, by the weak impulfe of the auricle, Ihould flow into that artery : I he blood thus receiv- ed, and confined within the right ventricle of the heart, is, by its ftrong contraction, powerfully expelled into the artery. The fcnfible flefh of the heart, being irritated by the quan- tity and weight of this warm blood, is thereby loheited to a contraction : For that the heart, being irritated, will contraCt itfelf in a perfon dying, or even lately dead, is proved by in- jections of water, and inflations of air, whereby the heart, then quiefeent, is recalled to its motion. The fibres of the heart, like other mufcles, are furnifhed with nerves of various origin, in great abundance. That thefe nerves conduce powerfully to move the heart is highly probable, from a confideration of the common na- ture of mufcles; from the increafe which follows in the heart’s motion by irritating the eighth pair of nerves, either at the brain or the fpinal medulla; and from the langour that enfues upon tying thefe nerves, which proves fatal, either fuddenly or within a few days, even though the ligature be made only on a few of them ; for the intercoftal, and efpe- cially thofe from the ganglion of the upper thoracic, canuot be tied. But that there are ftill other caufes, befides that of the ner- ves, conducing to the motion of the heart, we are perfuaded from obferving its motion undifturbed by the irritation of all the nerves in the living animal; from its remaining after the greateft wounds of the head, and even of the cerebellum and223 HEART. Chap. II. and medulla fpinalis; likewife, from its motion when tom out of the breaft; chiefly in thofe animals whole lungs, being impermeable, make no refiftance to the heart's motion; for the motion of the heart is obferved to be very vigorous in the foetus, before the brain is well formed, and likewife in animals wanting the head. And all our experiments agree in this, that the quiefcent heart, in dead or dying animals, when irritated by heat, vapours, poifons, and elpecially impelled flatus, wa- tery liquors, wax, or blood, or on receiving an eledtric fpark, immediately contradfs itfelf, putting all its fibres into a rapid motion, by a force fometimes common to the whole heart,, and fometimes afftdling only a particular part of it. There refides in the heart a kind of defire to be ftitnula- ted, (o that, even when it is almoft dead, wrinkles radiating from a point appear in many places, and trembling motions are propagated through different parts of its furface. Again, the heart, when torn out and cold, on being pricked, infla- ted, or irritated, contrails itfelf; and its fibres, when diffec- ted, corrugate themfelves orbicularly, when there is neither nerve nor artery to bring it lupplies of any kind. This irri- tability is greater, and remains longer in the heart, than in any other part of the body ; for, by ftimulating the heart, its motion may be renewed at a time when that of no other mufcle can. The heart of the foetus is mod irritable, as well as larger in proportion, than in adults, and moft tena- cious of its motion, even in the cold. The motion of the heart appears to be innate, coming neither from the brain no? the foul; it remains even when the heart is removed from the body, and it can neither be increafed nor retarded by the will. It is, therefore, evident, that the ftimulus occafioned by the venous blood driven into the heart, caufes it to contradh This contradlion is convulfive, made with great celerity, and a xnanifeft corrugation of the fibres. The whole heart, in thePart VI. heart. 224 the contraction, becomes fhorter, thicker, and harder, fo that the left ventricle is drawn fornewhat towards the feptum of the heart, and the right one much more. The bafe alfo ad- vances towards the apex; but the apex more evidently to- wards the bafis *. Even the feptuin of the heart is rendered fhorter, and draws itfclf towards the balls. By this aCtion, the flefhy parts of the heart fwell inwardly, and comprefs the blood. Of this fa£t we may be convinced, by thrufting the finger into the ventricle of the heart in an animal new- ly killed. That the heart is accurately enough emptied in this aCtion, appears from the event; from the evident palenels of animals whofe heart is white, as frogs and chickens ; and from the internal furface being full of eminences, which ex- actly anfwer to oppolite cavities, and to the thick reticular arms or columns interrupted by fmufes. The apex of the heart, being contracted a little like a hook, ftrik.es againft that part of the pericardium next the thorax. Forwards, there is alfo a pulfation from the left venal finus, which is at that time filled. In exfpiration, the heart Itrikes violently up- wards and forwards. The truth of both thefe we know by experiment. The blood, which is prefled by the contracted heart, en- deavours to efcape in all directions •, it is driven from the mufcular Tides, towards the axis of the ventricle, and that part of it which is contained between the Tides of the ven- tricle and the annulus of the auricular orifice, puflies the an- nulus within the auricle, and by this aCtion upon the whole circumference of the annulus, it becomes extended. A fmall quantity of blood is indeed returned into the auricle before the # This Dr Haller has often obferved with the greateft cer- tainty in difleCting brute animals; fo that thofe learned gentle- men mult have fome way or other been deceived, who have averted that the heart is elongated during its contraction.Chap. II. HEART. the prcflure becomes biffin ient to clofe the tricufpid valves. When thele valves are (h t, the violent prcflure of the blood 3jainft them might conliderably n.jure them, or even ptdh then back mto the auricle; but to prevenr any accident of that kind, their mulcular columns, which contrail with the heart, keep their edges firmly united. The blood bejrg impelled from the tides toward the axis of the contraftmg heart, endeavours to elcape in that direc- tion, and, by rufhmg Ike a wedge between the valves, prefi. fes their looie edges again!! the tides of the pulmonary artery, fo as to run freely out of the heart 1 he truth of this ap- pears from the fabric of the parts, from injtftions, and from ligatures, which, by obftruibng the lungs, will not fuffer the cavities in the right title of the heart to be emptied. The blood now received into the pulmonary artery, circu- lates through the lungs. That the blood goes directly from the arteries into the pulmonary veins, appears evidently tr.-m their llrudture; from a ligature, which, confining the blood between the heart and lungs, caules an aneurilmatic dilata- tion of the artery; from polypufes, by which the mouth of the pulmonary artery being oblfruifed,'the right cavities of the heart become enlarged, and at length burl!, while the left remain empty ; from injections, tor water, ifinglats, and ynilk, are very eafily forced from the pulmonary artery into the vein, and from thence into the left cavity of the heart. And laftly, the direct anaftomofes, or final opening- of the arteries into the veins in the lungs, may be feen by micros- copes, in frogs, &c. The blood which has once entered the pulmonary artery cannot return to the heart ; becaufe its valve- are of inch di- menfion-, that when diltended, they perfectly lhu up the opening at the heart; and they are fo (trong that they refill: 4 much greater force than the contraction of the pulmon ry artery. Sometimes, however, from a greater contractile Voj.. II. F f forceHEAR T. 226 Part VI. force of the artery, they grow fomewhat callous ; or, from a laceration of their outer membrane, a bony matter is pour- ed in between the duplicarure of the valves. When the blood, by the contraffion of the artery, returns towards the heart, it meets and enters the open concavities of the valves, which are by that means expanded, and the mouth of the artery is completely fhut. Any opening that might be left, is precluded by the finall callous bodies in the middle of the valves. The pulwonary veins, of which we fhall fay more hereafter, run into larger branches, which at lafl terminate in four (feldom two, and ftill more rarely five) trunks j to which it has been cuftomary to affix a name in the lingular, by calling them the pulmonary vein. 1 hel'e enter the cavity of the pe- ricardium, from whence they receive an external covering, and are then inferted into the corner* of the left or poiferior finus, which is fometimes likewife called the pulmonury firms. In this courfe the upper veins defeend, and the lower ones af'cend. That thefe veins bring their blood towards the heart, in the fame direction with the finus into which they open, is proved by a ligature, which caufes a turgelcence or fwel- ling, from the blood being retained, between the ligatur£ and the lungs. In this left finus the blood waits for the heart’s relaxation, when it is driven into the left ventricle, in the fame manner as the right auricle impelled its blood into the right ventricle. From what has been faid then, it appears that the fame blood is now arrived into the left ventricle of the heart, which was a little before fent from the venae cavae into the right auricle. This courfe of the blood, from one fide of the heart to the other, through the lungs, is called the pul- monary or lejfer circulation, and was known to many of the antients. It is proved by the increafed bulk of the pulmo- naryChap. II. H E A R T< 227 nary veins on the left .fiuQ, and likewife of the right cavities of the heart, from the entrance into the left ventricle being ,n M Vi»t' y. noijasiinoa arffyd bdolti The Itft, or polterior and upper yetiirjcle of the heart, which is always fir ft foriped. and in, a great number of ani- mals the only one, make, that part of the heart which we be- fore called its convex luperior tide. It is fomewhat narrow- er, a little longer, rounder, and generally of a lefs capacity, in Dr Haller's opinion, than the right ventricle; for its con- tents are about two ounces, while thole of the right amount to three. Its internal fabric is reticular, but more nicely wrought than in the right ventricle, and withip the mouth of the artery it is fmooth ; but its force is confiderably great- er, as the mufcular flefh that furrounds, it is much thicker, and almoft three times as ftrong. The fep.tum of the heart belongs moftly to the left, but fome part of it alfo to the right ventricle : The whole of it is reticulated, but folid, and incapable of luffering any injedted iicjuid to pals from one Ventricle to another. Again, this left ventricle being excited to motion by the ’impeded blood, from the lame irritable nature already men- tioned* contracts, and drives its contained blood with a vio- lent motion in the diredtion of its axis, the tip or cone of the heart being at the fame time drawn nearer to its htfis. And fince the apparatus of the mitral valves is h< re the fame as in the triculpids, the blood now expanding the ring from whence they arde, removes that valve which lay againft the mouth of the aortal, and opens a way for itlelf to the artery. This is proved by oculpr denionfiration in living animals, where the left ventricle fwells upon /hutting the palfagc into the aorta. The femitunar valves of the aorta differ little from thofe of the pulmonary artery : Only, as the opening is here greater, fo the valves are proportionally larger and ftronger, and are notHEAR T, Part VI. jiot To often found to want thofe callous round bodies in the middle. rl he fibres, too, of the valves, both tranftferfe and afcending, are here fomewhat more confpicuous. After the coritraCHoh of the heart follows its relaxation or * i p ; , w ■. diaftole, in which it becomes empty, lax, and loft, recovers its former length, the ventricles nCede from the ftptuen, and the bafis from the apex. But, while it is i tv .-this ftate, the blood in the auricles, having been, as it were, in a Rate of expectation, rufhes thr< ugh the openings of the valve's of the veins, dilates the oppoftte fides of the heart, and ircrcafes all its dimenfions. After the auricles have fretd themfelves of the blood they contained, they are in like manner relaxed, and their oppofite fides remove from each other. The blood then collected in the venae cavae and pulmonary veins fills/ the auricles by the contraction c£ the veins ; renders them long, broad, and thick, like the ventricles; and even dif- tends and fills the dentated proceffes of the crefied margin. Thefe motions of the right and left auricle, with the right and left ventricle, are not performed in that fucceffion itl which, for the fake of method, we have here defenbed them; for both the auricles are contracted, while both the ventri- cles are related : bo that the contraction of the auricles pre- cedes the contraction of the ventricles. This faCt is alcertain- ed by experiments on dying animals, and on animals with cold blood. Thofe who have in.idveitantly taught other wife j have not taken the advantage of making a lufficient number of experiments on living animals. That the auricle, near death, makes frequent palpitations before the ventricle of the heart performs one contraction, is certainly true. I he auri- cle, with its fintis, forms one cavity ; and both are filled and both emptied in the fame inllant. It may be afked, Why the heart is not wearied, or becomes painful, by fo rapid, long continued, uniaVerruj ted, and vio- lent a morion ? The heart contraCls, in a healthy perfon, aboutHEART. 220 Chap- It* about <;coo times in an hour, and never ceafes its alternate; coi traCtions and dilatations from the firlt beginning of its ex- ilh nee till death f W hy, then, does it not, like other muf- cles, become tired, in a very few hours, by fuch Vtoitnt mo- tions ? How is its 1 rength piehrved ? Diff rent anf'wers have been given to thele qurftions by different proff ffors, founded either on a cor;pr< ffure of the cardiac nerves between the large arteries, or on an alternate repletion of the coronary arteries and cavities of the heart. &.c. But to Dr Haller the fimplicity of nature in this n atnr is very coi ipicoous. When the auri- cle is relaxed, it is din.Ctly filled by the mnlcular force of the continuous great vein j and the heart contracts when it is ir- ritated by the blood driven into it from the auricle, and thus empties itfclf of the blood. Biing freed from the ftimuius, it immediately reds or relaxes uiclf. l he heart being now relaxed, the auricle is, in like mantur, irritated by its contain- ed blood, and, by contracting, fills the heart again •, while the inctffant a£bons of the heart and artciiCs continually urge new blood into the right linus and auricle That this is the true caule of the head's motions is pro\ed fiom aCtual expe- riment and obfervatton The lucctffivc rep etinns and con- tractions made in the great vein, auricle, ventricle, and arte- ry, are plainly and eafny Icen in a weak or expiring animal; but, more dpccially, ana more evidently, in th..fe animals which have but one vemricic in the heart, as the torto fe, frog, fn.ke, tallies ; and in the thick hatching in the egg, which, in fit ad of a heart, has only one crooked canal, Be- sides, it is confirmed from tht inertia of the heart, produced by tying the vdns ; and, from the return of its moron, when the ligatures arc unloofcd ; provided ihelc phenomena are fufficici.tly valid ; hut it is more uncq ivocaily corrobor ited by injeCtion. and by the experime t of inflating a fr g’s he .rt With a fh-all bulible of air, which wC lee alternately afs from ilife ventricle to the auricle and back again for many hours. TheHEART, Part VI, 23* The left ventricle firft ceafes its motion ; then the auricle of that fide ; then the right ventricle ; after that the right auri- cle ; and, laft of all, *he pulmonary veins and venae cavae. Whatever motion is in the venae cavae, ought to be attributed to the auricle repelling the blood into both thefe veins, and which the heart, when dead, is not capable of receiving. Dr Haller believes that nothing more is requifire to produce the heart’s motion than a continual ftimulus applied to a very irritable part. For, on the approach of death, the coldnefs of the limbs contra&s the veins, and drives the blood to the heart; the lungs, being impermeable for want of refpiration, tranfmit no blood to the cavities of the left fide; and the heart, after it is thoroughly emptied, remains at reft. The velocity of the blood, at its entrance into the aorta, and the force with which it is expelled from the heart, have been fubje&s of much controverfy; and different anatomifts have computed them differently. To determine the velocity, modern writers proceed on the following data. They fuppoCc that two ounces are expelled by each (yftole, that each fyftole is the third part of the whole pulfation, and is performed in healthy perfons in 5|r part of a minute, that the area of the aorta is 0.4187, of an inch, and that two ounces of blood oc- cupy a fpace of 3.318 cubic inches ; or, in other words, that a cylinder of blood, whofe folidity is 3.318 inches, and bafe 0.4187, is expelled by the heart in 2|_th part of a minute. Since the folidity of a cylinder is the product of the area of its bafe into the length, its length will be equal to the folidi- ty divided by the bafe; therefore, in this cafe, 3 318 divided by <4187 gives 7.9245 for the length which the blood runs in -t|T of a minute; that is, *48 feet 7 inches in a minute.' To determine the force, they fuppofe that the perpendicular jet from the heart is 7 feet 6 inches, and the area of the fur- face of the ventricle is 1 5 inches; thefe two numbers multi- plied give 1350 cubical inches, or 51 pounds of blood againft whichHEART. Chap. II. 23* which the heart a£ts. The heart, therefore, fends a weight of 51 pounds, with the velocity of 149 feet in a minute. The above computation may perhaps be inaccurate, both from the onuffion of iome circumftances that ought to have been taken into the account, and from the inaccuracy of the data ; but that the heart appears to be a very powerful ma- chine, is evident from the great difficulty we have in filling all the red blood-vellels by anatomical injedtions, and the utter impoffibiiity of filling all the l'malier ones j yet the heart, we lee, not only gradually diftends all the larger, the lmaller, 1 nd even the leaft veflels, with blood, but alio drives it forward through them with a considerable velocity. Even in the lealt arteries, the blood is urged forward by the heart with fuch a force as to make the alternate motions of that powerful rnulcle perceptible j even in fuch animals as are icarcely vifible to the naked eye, and in the imali etrj- bryos of infects. And, from lome of the leaft arteries, I have leen the blood ftart icvcral feet, the jet deferibing 3 parabola, whofe height was four feet, and -the .amplitude of projection feven; and fquie apatomifts afl'ert that they have leen the blood alcend from the aorta to the height of twelve feet. - ^ QwJ ^ j,a£ ne q0 et.cnot, Moreover, that we may make a juft eftimate of the lieart’s force in living animals, we muft confider what great refinan- ces that complex mufcle overcomes: We muft compute the enormous weight of the whole niafs of blood j a mafs perhaps of fifty pounds and upwards : For all the quantity of fluids, once fhgnant in a perl'on lately drowned or fainting away, are eafily put into their former motion by the heart alone. We muft alio confider the great decr.eafe of the blood’s velocity, arifing from the greater capacity of the dividing branches; and yet, even in the leaft vellels, its velocity is very conflJerable, as appears by the Sand tor ian perfpiration feen to fly rapidly oftPart VI. 23* HEART. off like ("make, and by the quirk motion of the blood feen, by the help of microfcope*, in hlhes ta Is. F idtions in every machine always tonfutne the gieatdt part of ihc moving tor- ces ; and thelt trillions wnl doubtlefs be very large in the human body, whole bl uid and juices arc es. ftmely viicid, and whole vcffrls are io Imall as fcarceiy to allow more than a (inble globule to pals at a time, and even that nut w thout ch ngtng its figure. All thtfe reliitances bemg cotlidercd, sve may with ut doubt conclude that the force of the heart mult be extremely gnat, in order 10 prehrvt the motion lo ftiong as we p rcetvc it to the ledt aitcries. Another argu- ment of ihc t.eai *s fc r e is, that arcu dots and arteries are burrt, and very gre..t wetglus, as well as the bo ly tti'clf, rail- ed by the forte ut the heart’- lyttole. I he bioi u, being driven into »he aorta, rulhes fir ft ef all into the coionary arttres, by which the iis,irt is luppued w th hlood. hcle arteries ar<. fur the molt part two, the fi^i t' goc- off between die aorta and pulmonary aitery, and the upper and left one between the left auricle and the ..orta. Ad the external arttries are turrounued with much fat j but their cavity is more intercepted with valves than that of other aiteries Thete arteries communicate, by tnolculations of the iinall branches, every where about the. feptu n and tip of the heart; but they no where m«ke a complete ring round the heart. They terminate in a twofold manner. The hrlt termination of them is into the coronary veins, W iole branches run in company with thofe of the arteries, but 1 heir trunks run in a different courle. ,Svme authors luppole that the coronary arteries are filled with blood, not by the conrrafting of the heart, but of the aorta ; and the arguments by which they fuppert their hyT potheles are, the retrograde angle at which the c ronaries go 9^ the palencfs of the oeptra&ed heart, and the valvesChap. II. fcLOOD and JUICES. 233 of the aorta covering the mouths of the coronary arteries. But the two laft of thefe arguments are contradicted by ex- perience; and the firft can only impede or leffen, and not in- tercept, the flux into the heart: For the injections of air or mercury into all the letninal and biliary veflels, demonflrate that the large retrograde angles, which the veflels often make there, do not hinder the fluids from taking their natural courfe, though they retard them. But a proof, flill more evident, is, that the coronary artery beats at the fatne time with all the other arteries in the body, and the blood ftarting from it makes a higher faltus at the time when the heart is contracting. j y. Of the Nature of the Blood and Juices of the Human Body. The liquor which is contained in the arteries and their Correfponding veins, is known by the general name of blood i It appears homogeneous, is coagulable, and of a red colour ; it is redder in ItrOng and well fed animals, and generally yel- low in fuch as are weak and ftarved. White Breaks fome- times appear in it, in confequence of the chyle. But from various experiments it is certain, that this animal liquor con- tains very different ingredients. That fire is contained in the blood may be proved from if? heat, which, in human blood, and that of fomfi other ani. mals, is from 92 to ico degrees of Fahrenheit’s, thermome- ter, which is more than the mean degree of atmofphericaL heat, but lefs than the greatelt. Dr Wrifberg lays, that daily experience Ihews that it differs in man, according to age, temperament, ftate of mind, motion or reft of body, climate, weather, kind of life, meat and drink, health, and the various fpecies and violence of difeafe. It is alfo certain that the .degrees of heat in the body increafes a little from an augmentation of heat in the atmofphcre; but it does not Voi. II. G g rifeBLOOD and JUICES* Part Vf. 234 rife to the greateft pitch of fummer heat. We can live in ar- inuch greater heat than the heat of the warmed fummer, as is proved by perfqns employed in fugar-houffs, melting-fur- naces, by mowers, and the ufe of baths and ftoves in Finland and Ruflia; and alfo by the late experiments of Fordvce, Blagden, Hunter, and Dobfon. .The heat of the blood is fometimes fo diminifhed in an intenfe cold, that in a perfon froft bitten, but not dead, a thermometer applied to the mouth, arm-pits, groins, and even the vagina, would not rife above 76° of Fahrenheit. Is the matter of heat in the blood alone ? This is fufliciently probable from phenomena; for the heat of the body is diminifhed by hemorrhagy, or when the blood is intercepted by ligature and compreflion from reaching the joints, and is reftored when the blood returns. I muff obferve, however, that my experiments upon living animals, particularly upon fwine, did not difeover fo great a difference as might have been expelled, between the heat of the heart, arteries, veins, brain, ftomach, inteftines, tunica vaginalis, and even the interfaces of the cellular texture in the muffles. Again, a kind of volatile vapour or exhalation continually flies off from the warm blood, which has a fort of foetid fmell, intermediate between that of the fweat and urine. This vapour, after collection and condenfation in con- venient veffels, partakes of an aqueous nature, with fome- what of an alkaline quality. After this vapour has diffipated, the blood of a healthy perfon fpontaneoufly congeals into a ffiffile, trembling mafs, efpecially in a heat of about 150 degrees, and fooner in fe- verifh perfons than in fuch as are in health. It fometimes coagulates in the veins of a living perfon, and is found clot- ted in wounds of the arteries. But even within the veffels of a living perfon, and in one dying of a fever, the blood has Been feen, by the violence of that diflemper, changed into a concreted tremulous jelly throughout all the veins. The • principalChap. II. BLOOD and JUICE& 235 principal part of this coagulated mafs is the ernffamentum or cruor> which has the red colour peculiar to itfclf, and gives ic to the other parts of the blood. This, if it be nor kept fluid by the attrition of a vital circulation, or fome fimilar concuf- lion, runs into a confided compact, but loft mals, like liver, merely by reft and a moderate degree of cold ; as it alio does by the additipri of alcohoJ, by mineral acids, or by a heat of 150 degrees. It is either as a fluid or a folid, frecifically heavier than water by near an eleventh part ; and, when freed from its water, it is inflammable. In a mals of healthy blood, one half or upwards is red cruor; and, in ftrong la- borious people, the lerurn makes only a third part; and is ftill more diminifhed in fevers, often to a fourth or fifth pare of the mals. The white, yellowifh, watery part of the blood, commonly called the ferum, which feparates from this coagulum, tran- fuding, as it were, through its pores, forms a fluid in which the coagulum finks; this again feems, though it really is not fo, a homogeneous liquory it is, in general, one thirty-eighth, part heavier than water, and almoft a twelfth part lighter than the red globular mafs of crafiamentum : 13y'a heat of 150 degrees, or by mixture of mineral acids or alcohol, and by a concufiive motion, it is coagulable into a much harder ihafs than the red cruor, and forms fir ft: an indifloluble glue, then a flefh like membrane, and at length fhrinks up to a horn like fubftance or friable gum. The pleuritic crufts or fkins, polypufes, and artificial membranes, 2re formed from this part of the blood. Eefides this coagulable albumen, tlxe ferum contains a very confiderable portion of Ample water, and fome mucus, lefs capable of being drawn into threads than the red cruor; nor af the fame time coagulable, like the albumen, by heat and acids. Hewfon has difeovered a fecond kind of lymph, which Kraufius has alfo allowed. - ■ ByBLOOD and JUICES. Part VI. By putrefaction alone, or the diffjlving power of the air, in a heat equal to 96 degrees, the whole mafs, but efpecially the ferum, diffolves or melts into a foetid liquor; firft the fe- rurn, and then the cruor more flowly, till at length the whole mafs, both of ferum and cruor, is turned inro a volatile and foetid exhalation, leaving very few foeces behind The blood being a little diffolved by the beginning putrefadtion, be- comes foetid ; with the foetor it affumes an alkaline nature, and effervefees with acids. 1 his property it afterwards lofes, the alkaline fait being defiroyed by the complete putrefac- tion. The putrid blood cannot by any art be infpiflated, and it is very difficult to refolve it, after it has been coagulared by fpirit of wine. By two fevere exercifes, heat, and malig- nant diforders, the cohefion of the blood is diflolvrd and it affumes an alkaline nature, almoft as if from putrefaction. The blood contains in its fubffarice a quantity of Jea falty which is difcernible to the tafte, and fou etimes viiible by the microfeope. That there is catth in the blood is demonftrated from nutrition, and from a chemical analyfis; and this earth is chiefly found in the mod fluid, and eipecially in the oily parts of the blood. By fome very late experiments, it ap- pears, that a confiderable quantity of ferruginous earth, eafi- ]y reducible into metal by the addition of phlogifton, is con- tained in the blood when calcined. Lallly, another part in the blood is air in an unelaftic flate, and that in a very con- flderable quantity, as is proved by the putrefaction and diftil- lation, or by removing the ambient air by the pump ; but we are not to fuppofe that the blood-globules are bubbles full of air, for they are fpecifically heavier than the ferum. By the admixture of neutral falts the colour of the blood becomes deeper and brighter, without the blood’s being ei- ther diffolved or thickened. It is fcarcely altered by a weak acid. By fermented liquors it is coagulated. Fixed alkaline falls have almoft the fame effects as the neutrals. The vola- tileChap. IL 237 BLOOD and JUICES. tile alkalies rather turn it brown, and coagulate it. Alcohol and diftilled oils, and likewile vinegar, coagulate it. It does Dot effervefce with any fait. Chcmiftry has, in various ways, {hewn us the nature of the blood. 1. When frefli drawn, before it has time to putri- fy, the blood, diftilled with a flow heat, yields a water to the quantity of live parts in fix of the whole mal's ; which water has little or no tafte or fmell, till towards the end of the ope- ration, when it is proportionally more charged with a foetid oil. 2. The refiduum, expoied to a ltronger fire, yields va- rious alkaline liquors, of which the firft, being acrid, toe- tid, and of a reddifh colour, is ufually called tne Jpinl i/f blood •, it confifts of a volatile fait, with fome little on, t.if- foived in water, to the amount of one twentieth pari of the original mafs of blood. This fame acrimonious fubftance is obiervable in the f«t, and likewile in putrid fielh ana blood. 3. A little before, and together with the od, a dry volatile fait ariles, and adheres in branchy flakes to the neck and tides of the glafs. i he quantity of this fait is very fmall, being lets than an eightieth part of the whole mafs. 4. ihe next liquor is oil; it is at firft yellow, afterwards black, and at laft it reitmbles pitch, being very acrid and inflammable; It makes about a fiftieth part of the whole mafs, £. There remains in the bottom of the retort a fpongy inflammable coal or cinder, which, being kindled, burns and leaves afhes behind. From thefc afhes, by lixiviation with water, is ob- tained a mixed fatty partly lea-lalt, and partly fixed alkali, to. j’ether with a fmall quantity of fixed earth. This fixed fait is fcarce the five hundredth part of the mafs, and of this on- ly one fourth part is alkaline : But being calcined with an in- tenfe fire, the whole fait affords fome portion of an acidfpi- Tit; which we fuppofe to be owing partly t0 the fea fait in the blood, fome of which is demonftrable even in the fpirit of blood ; and partly to the vegetable aliments, not yet di- geftedPart VL BLOOD and JTPCES. 538 gefted into an animal nature. For which laff rcafon an acid is procurable from the blood of graminivorous animals as well as from that of man. The earth, feparaied from the l xivi- um by filtration, makes about an hundred and fiftieth p rt of the original mats, and contains fome particles which arc aftraded by the load ftone. From the preceding analyfis of the blood, it evidently con- tains a variety of particles, diffi ring in bulk, weight, figure, and tenacity ■, fome watery, others inflammable, and molt of them greatly inclined to putrefattion, and of an alkaline na- ture. The blood, in a found healthy ftate, not injured by putrefadbon, or too violent a degree of heat, is neither alka- line nor acid, but mild or gelatinous, and a little faltifh to the tafte ; yet, in iome dileafes it is 'very acrid, and comes near to a ftate of putrefadlion ; as for inftance, in the feur- vy, where it corrodes its containing vcfiels; and in dropfies, the waters of which are frequently alkaline. Bur an alkalef- cent calx is found in the blood of mfedfo, which effervefees with acids. By a microfeope we perceive in the blood red globules; Which, doubtleis, make that parr called cruor or crajffamsntum. If it be qudfioned, whether thefe are not rarhrr lenticular particles ot the fame kind with thofe obferved by Leuwen- lioek in fifii, and lately dil'covered in our own fpecies, wc contefs it is a point difficult to determine: Hewfon, however, obierves that the particles are flat like a guinea. (See his Treatife on the Blood.) • The colour of thefe globule; is red ; and the intenfenefs of their colour, and* the proportion they bear to the whole mafs, inc*(*aies with the (Irength of t^he animal. Their dia- meter is very f nail, being between ar‘d tttW an inc^* They are laid to change their figure into an oblong egg like fhape, which Dr Haller cou'd never oblerve with fufficient certainty. They are alio laid to difiolve into other Idler •r> ' globules, Cfaap- II. BLOOD and JUICES. globules of a yellow colour, which he had neither obfervcd himlelf, nor can eafily admit. From the red part of the blood, fibres are generated in a-* bundsnce; from the lerum, in fmaller quantities. Ihey arc ; procured by pouring the blood into a linen-cloth, and wafh- i ing it gradually with a great deal of water, or by beating it ■with a rod. In quantity, they, equal the 28th part of the 1 whole maf's. Thefe are formed of the gluten, and are not ge- nerated in a living animal; fince they are neither to be per- ceived by the microlcope, which fo eafily renders viable the. red globules; nor yet does their long thread-iike figure feem adapted for receiving motion. From the preceding experiments compared together arifes that knowledge which we at prefent have ot the blond; namely, that the craffamentum or cruor is compofed ot glo- bules. The inflammable or combuftible nature of thefe glo- bules is proved from dried blood, which takes flitne and burns; as alfo from the pyrophorus, which is generated from the human blood : And from globules alfo moil probably a. , rifes the greater part of the pitchy oil that is obtained from blood by the violence of fire. * The ferum of the blood diftilled with a ftrong fire gives over almoft the fame principles with the cruor, viz fait, oil, and earth. It yields, however, much more water but no iron at all. Similar principles, but with a lefs proportion of oil and fait, are obtained from the aqueous humours prepared from the blood, as the faliva and mucus. The exadt mafs or quantity of blood contained in the whole body cannot be certainly computed. The weight of the mafs of humours, however, is much greater than that of the folids; but many of them, as the gluten and fat of parti- ticular parts, do not flow in the circulation. But, if we may be allowed to form a juJgment from thole profufe haemor- -*hagies that have been fuftained without deftroying. the life of'24® BLOOD And JUICES. Part VL of the patient, and from experiments made on living animals by drawing out all their blood, the mafs of circulating hu- j mours will be at lead fifty pounds ; of which, about 28 will j be true red blood, running in the arteries and veins ; of which the arteries contain only four parts, and the veins nine. The blood does not always contain the fame proportion of \ the principles above mentioned: For an increafed celerity, whether by laborious and ftrong exercifes, a full age, fever, or otherwife, augments the crafiarnemum, the rednefs, the con- gealing force, and thecohefion of the particles; and the hard- nefs and weight of the concreted ferum with the alkaline principles are increafed by the fame means. On the other hand, the younger and lefs adtive animal, and the more wa- tery or vegetable the diet on which it is fed, the crafiamen- tum of the blood is proportionally leffened, and its ferum and mucus increafed Old age, again, ieflens the crafiamentum, and the gelatinous part likewife. From thefe principles, and a due confideration of the folid fibres and veflels, the different temperaments are de- rived. For a plethoric or /anguine habit arifes from an a- bundancce of the red globules ; a phlegmatic temperature from a redundancy of the watery parts of the blood; a choleric difpofition of the humours feems to arife from a more acrid and alkalefcent property of the blood ; as appears from thofe who live on flefh and on the human fpecies, being fo much i fiercer and more pafilonate than thofe who live on vegetable food. A great firmnefs in the folid parts, joined with an \ exquifite fenfibility, or nervous irritability, difpofes to a cho- leric habit; a lefs irritability, with a moderate denfity, to a fanguine habit; and a lefler degree, both of denfity and irri- tability, are to be referred to a phlegmatic temperament. There is alfo a kind of dull heavy temperament, in which there is the greateft ftrength of body, joined with no great degree of irritability. In the' melancholic, again, a wcaknefs ofChap. II. BLOOD and JUICES. 24* of the folids is joined with the higheft degree of nervous irri- tation or lenfibility. But we murt not ddcribe the tempera- ments too lyftematically; for they are found to be not only four or eight, but almoft infinitely varied. The red part of the blood leems chiefly of ufe to generate heat, fince its quantity is always in proportion to the heat of the blood. This being confined by the largenefs of the glo- bules, within the red or firft order of veflels, hinders them from collapfing ; and, in receiving the common motion of the heart by the greater denfity of its parts, it has a greater impetus, and fets in motion the lefi'er orders of humours. Nor is it improbable that the heart is more ftrongly irritated by the ponderous cruor of the blood. The globular figure of its parts, together with their denfity, makes it eafily per- vade the veflels; and the quantity of iron it contains, as well as of oil, perhaps increafes its power of generating heat. And hence it is, that the red part of the blood being too much di- minilhed by profuld bleedings, there follows a flagnation or lefiened motion of the humours in the l'maller veflels} whence fatnefs and dropfy. By the fame rule alfo a due proportion of cruor is necefl’ary within the habit, to generate new blood. For, by large hemorrhagies, we fee the blood lofes its red and denfe nature, and degenerates into a pale, ferous, or watery Bate. The coagulable fcrum is more efpecially defigned for the nutrition of the parts, as fliall be afterwards lhewn The thin- ner juices ferve various purpoles ; as the diflolution of the a- liments, the moiftening of the external furface of the body and furfaces of the external cavities, to prelerve the flexibility of the folids, and conduce to the motion of the nerves, the fight, &c. The faline particles feem ferviceable for diflulving the aliment, and ftimulating the veflels. The properties of the aerial part are not yet well known. The heat occafions Vol. II. H h thePart Vl 242 -BLOOD and JUICES. the fluidity, and is not eafily raifed to fuch a degree as to co- agulate the humours Health, therefore, cannot fubfifl: wiihout a denfe and red blood ; and, if its quantity be too much diminifhcd, a flag- nation of the juices takes place, whence the whole body be- comes pale, cold, and weak. Nor can life or health fubfift without a fufflciency of thinner juices intermixed with the red blood; fince the cruor, deprived of its watery part, congeals and obflrutfls the fmalleft paffages of the veflels, and caufes too great a heat. It fliould leem that there ought to be a difference between the arterial and venous blood, on account of the former’s ha- ving lately fuffered the action of the lungs: But, in experi- ments, I fcarcely find any obfervable difference, either in co- lour, dcnfity, or any other property. Sometimes, however, .1 have found a mod: evident difference; for the bright colour of the arterial blood feems to dillinguifh it from the dufky dark coloured blood in the veins. The dark colour of the blood in a chicken, while in the egg, arifes only from the deep feat of the vein. But we have not fufficienr cer- • tainty of a difference in the blood of different arteries. However, the arterial blood is apparently of a more bright or fplendid red, and having a greater degree of fluidity and proportion of watery parts, may fo far differ from the venous darker coloured blood. But, to clear up this cir- -cumffance, farther experiments are requifite. From or.e and the fame mafl. of blood, driven into the a- orta, are generated all the fluids of the human body ; which, from their afffoity to one another, are reducible to certain claffes. The manner in which they are feparated ought to be accounted for by the fabric or mechanifm of the glands themfelves. But we muff firft confider what the blood fuf- fers from its containing veflels* “ The243 Chap. II. THE TEMPERAMENTS. “ lhe theory of the temperaments of the human body (fays Dr Wrifberg), in the lenle commonly received by phy- fictans, and taught in the fchools, the received divifion of them into four fpecies, and their repeated production from the different nature and mixture of the blood, favours too much of the antient and particularly of the Galencial doc- trine. 1 think there can be no doubt that there are tempe- raments ; and that the manner and rule which nature follows in man, and likewile in perfect animals, may be oblerved in the performance of the corporeal and mental functions, in either prelerving or endangering the health and life, in the exercilc of molt of the duties and affairs of life, and in the aCtions of the internal and external parts, which are more or lefs connected with the health of the animal. If, therefore, we would wifh to give any fpecific name to this different re- lation and deter mination of the parts of our body, when once communicated with the fyftem in general, as we would do to any plant, or other particular natural body ; or if we wilh to keep the antient denominations fanguineous, choleric, phleg- matic, and melancholic, in preference to all othtrs, we muff be aware, that neither the various habits nor temperaments of mankind can originate f'olely from the different natures of the blood, nor can they all be comprehended under tlieie four modifications. “ i he caufes of diverfity of temperament feem to bex I. The various quantity, firmnefs, and (entient faculty of the nervous fyftem, from the brain communicated to each nerve. I have always obferved a choleric, and cholerico fanguineous difpofirion, in all perlons having a large brain and thick ftrong nerve-, along with a great fenfihility as well of the whole body, as of the organs of fenle. Hence arifes a ready apprehenfion of objeCfs, and an increafe of uriderffanding and knowledge, and, owing to the comparifon of many ideas, an ■acute and entire judgment, which choleric perfons poffefs ia f*Part VI. MA THE TEMPERAMENTS. Co eminent a degree: But, along with this condition of the t\erves, thefe people are exceffively liable to grief and anger, when the body or mind is but {lightly affected ; and on this account medicines ftiould be cautioufly given, an. lefs dofes preferibed to them. With a frnall brain, and {lender nerves, I have oblerved the fenfes more dull, and a phlegmatic or phleg- matico-melancholic torpor conjoined. Thefe people therefore require from external objects ftronger impreffions upon the organs of fenfe, and thefe impreffions longer applied, if they are meant to leave lading eff £t$: lienee their judgment is frequently weak on account of the deiedt of ideas ; and they feldom acquire any cxfrnfive knowledge. But nature has compenf.ited thefe difadvantages, by making them more able to undergo hardlhips, from change of climate, life, or labour; they demand more powerful medicines, and larger dofes. "What a great difference in man and the cetaceous animals I 1. The various degrees of irritability in the mulcular parts. Tor, wherever you find a very delicate irritability, affedfed by almoft every fiimulus, and retaining lading impreffions, and at the fame time atfing with a certain celerity; in that cafe you cannot doubt of a choleric difpofition. rience that remarkable ltrength in the mulcles ot lome perions, which adl with fo incredible quickneh, defpatch, and con- ftancy. On the contrary, if you examine a phlegmatic per- son, you obferve the contradfile power of the mulcles lan- guid, difficulty yielding to lVunuli, unlefs powerful; lince the mufcles of plegmatico melancholic men are long of being determined to motion, although lirongly excited, and £niih it with’an appearance of languor. 3. Even a certain fofmels is obfervable in all fibres and membranes, if you toucht he body of a piileginatic perfon ; or a leeming hard- nefs and drynefs in melancholic habits : Along with which particular ie the phlegmatics join lefs elafticiry, whillt, in the melancholic, there is a greater tone and contradfile power. 4*US Chap. IT. THE TEMPERAMENTS. 4. There is in the air, undoubtedly, a certain deflrical principle, which being by refpiration communicated iD differ- ent ways with the body, imparts a natural tone to the fibres, occafions a quicker motion in the veffels, and inercafes and diminifhes by turns the alacrity of the mind. But, as this principle of atmol'pheric air does not prevail in equal quan- tity every hour of the day, all times of the year, and in every climate 5 fo fometimes we feel an univtrial laffitude, which fuddenly ceafes, the Ifrength of the body and mind being reftored with a ferene and elaftic air •, fo, in like manner, all men do not equally abforb this elcdxic matter, which thus forms a remarkable diverfity of temperament. 5. We ought, too, to combine with thefe the various nature of the blood from the proportion of its elements : And, in fad, as greater ftimuli in the blood excite the heart to brifker contradions 5 fo a more acrid and copious bile may effedually promote the periftaltic motion, and the abundance of mucus occafion 9 tendency to lentor and frequent catarrhs. “ There are then fufficient caufcs, which, from cur birth, may bring on, in the firft growth of the parts of the body, an irrevocable determination to this or that habit or tempe. rament. I therefore can fcarcely admit a complete tranfi. mutation of temperament, which, during the exercile of thefe natural lasw, could render a purely choleric perfon phlegma- tic : But, that fome change may take place in temperaments, that violent attacks may be mitigated, that lentor, torpor, and liflleffuefs, may be increafed, I readily agree ; and, from the remedies by which fuch a change may be produced, I form a fecond clafs of the caufes of temperaments. The chief are, 1. A different kind of meat and drink. An animal diet adds a great flimulus to our llrength, invigorates our fenfes, and fometimes induces ferocity ; as is evident from the Anthropophagi, carnivorous animals, wild beafts and their whelps, and hunters, particularly if the abufe of aro- raatics,Part VI* a 46 TH E' TEMPER AMENTS. fnatics, wines, and medicines, has fupervened. Vegetables, on the contrary, increafe the lentor of the fibres, weaken the ftrength, diminifh lenfibility and irritability; in a word, induce a phlegmatic diljofition; in which potatoes have a wonderful effed. it would be of great confequence to pay regard to this in the bringing up of children, viz. to invigo- rate the inertia of the mental and corporeal faculties by the life of animal food, but to temper the vehement paffions pe- culiar to choleric perfons, by ufing a vegetable diet. 2. The particular mode of education and examples. It need fcax'ce be infilled on that thefe pofiefs great influence, particularly in infancy. Hence it happens that whole nations are of one temperament. 3. Climate, weather, native country. Rarely in an unfcttled climate or country, in hot climates, or in moifi: countries, will you find in choleric perfons that alacrity of temper, agility of body, and quickneis of underflandmg, which is fo common in a ferene mid temperate climate, and high hilly countries. 4. The increafe of knowledge. I have often admired that change which a ftrenous induftry produces in lome of the mod dull men ; fo that, with the increafe of knowledge, they became of a more cheerful tem- perament. 5. Abundance and want of ncceflaries, both in life, and for the purpofe of forwarding improvement. For this reafon, it may happen that, according to the diverfity of the form of government, whether under mild or more fevere and tyrannical laws, the temperament of the fubjett may be cither lively or languid. 6. fhe lort of life itlelf, intercourfe with men, and public employment, may have a great lhare in changing temperaments ; fince rarely, after the 36th year of a man’s life, do you find the blood flill pure; and a choleric perfon fcarcely prelcrves his former alacrity after his 50th. It is difficult to fay into how many Ipecies temperaments fhould be divided, and what kind of chara&er lhould be afligned to each; according to i^ture, and not conje&ure. I doubt I H1\V /*41 Chap. II. THE TEMPERAMENTS. may not be more fuccefsful than the celebrated Kaempfius and Gerrefhemius, as 1 exhibit the ouilines only The fangui- neous and phlegmatic temperaments leem, with various in- termedia, to comprehend all modifications. l. The fangui- neous, which is inconftant, and not well fpecified, is diftin- guilhed by a vivid colour of the face; the veflels are full; and hence, for the mod part, rhey take ill with external heat; they are predifpofed greatly to inflammatory difeafes; they have a great (hare of fenfibility and irritability, which all therefore indicate a defire of pleafure in this temperament, 'and the greatefl inquietude, both of body and mind, prevails; They are talkative; abide not long with any occupation; they are eafily feduced, and contract an intimacy with every body; but they foon forget their friends, fhewing a certain diffidence to all of them ; they feldom meddle with affairs of any confequence; and rarely acquire proficiency in the fci- ences, unlefs in an advanced age. 2. 1 he fanguineous cho- leric enjoys a better mixture of caufes; it has the fupports of health and cheerfulnefs along with the former, but has perfe- verance in common with the choleric. 3. The choleric; Here you will always obferve the body lean, though not ema- ciated and dry, as in the cafe with melancholic; the lkin is of a whitifh yellow, with red hairs; the balls of the eyes are of a moderate magnitude, the pupil being frequently dim; a penetrating lively countenance, fometimes joined with a de- gree of ferocity; a quick pulfe; actions of the muffles in walking, fpeaking, and other refpedb, very rapid ; copious and acrid bile ; hence an effectual periftaltic motion, more frequent ftools, a ready inclination to undertake any thing of confequence, formed as if to command, and particularly fond of animal food. 5. The hypochondriac : An unhappy tem- •perament, troublefome to itf'elf and others. Men of this fort, for the mod part, are fubjeft to difeafes in the liver, have a yellpwifli appearance, always difcontcnted, wonderfully tor- turedPart VI. 248 THE TEMPERAMENTS. tured with envy and diffidence, and are called by fome ch»» Itrico-melancholic. 6. The melancholic have a dejefted alpett: The eyes, for the moft part, fmall, retraced, and winking ; the hair blick, and Ikin rigid j remarkable for its drynefs and leannefs ; a fmall and flow pulfe, fparing and black bile, a flow periftaltic motion. They indeed have quick percep- tions, and ponder long ; they fubmit to toilfome labour with the greateft patience, but finilh it with incredible flownefs. for the moft part they pay no regard to time. They eaftly bear the difadvantages of life ; but, when once their anger is excited, they love revenge. 7. The boeotic or ruftic joins a great {hare of the fanguineous temperament with the me- lancholic and phlegmatic. The body is lufty, full of juices, a fmall irritability in its ftrong mufdes, and fome ftupor in its fmall nerves. Perlons of this fort are capable of no edu- cation ; and whatever they undertake favours of a low turn of mind. 8. 1'he gentle and mild temperament. This is compolcd of the fanguineous, choleric, and phlegmatic. They are a good race of men, withing well to all: In them we al- ways perceive a calmnefs and Ivveetnefs of manners. They ftrongly hate a prating, noify loquacity. It devoted to ftudy, they calmly undertake the talk, anxioufly ponder what they learn, and are capable of great proficiency. 9. The flow phlegmatic is diftinguifhed by a foft and niotlly whitifh fkin, a very lax body, very prominent eyes, drowly afpett, a flow and weak pulfe: For the moft part they fpeak flow, are pa- tient of the weather’s inclemency, and other people's affronts ; born to obey; and on account of their {lighter irritability, difficultly enraged, and eafily pacified again.*4 9 CIRCULATION. &c. Chap. II. § 8. Of the Circulation or Motion of the blood through the Ar- teries and Vems. The arteries and veins contain either blood or lvmph. The red blood fills thole arteries and veins which we call red, or of the fir It order, and which have their origin in the heart. Sometimes they are very loolely and imperfectly diilended by the blood, and at other times they are rendered very full and turgid. After death, the veins are found fuller of blood than the arte- ries; and fomerimes, when the peil'on has been dead a con- fiderabie time, the lmall veins have been found diftended with air. But the arteries of a dead body commonly contain only a fmall quantity of blood. 1 his defending blood is rapidly moved through all the vef- fels of a living body, as is demonftrated to us lrom wounds ; and the patient foontr or later expires from the lof's if fo much blood as was neceflary for the maintenance of life; this lols of blood Happens almoll inflantly from the h.rger arteries, and fometimts very fuddenly from the Imaller ones ; But from the veins, unlefs they are fome of the largeft, it is generally flow; yet are there not wanting inflances of fa'al hemorrhagies from wounds of the veins, in the inner corners of the eyes, and thofe under the tongue. Experiments made upon living animals iufficiently evince the impulfe and rapi- dity with which the blood is moved, particularly through the arteries. The height to which blood afeended from the carotids, when cut, according to Hale’s calculation, Dr Wr fberg law confirmed in robuft men who were be- headed: It is generally about feven feet, with this dif- ference, however, that in two examples the blood fprung higher from the vertebrals than from the carotids. In the larger trunks it runs fwifteft, but in the leaft of them, fomewhat flower. In the larger veins, the blood’s celerity Vol. II. I i ;s2J® Part VL CIRCULATION is lefs than in the arterial trunks, in the fame proportion as the fedtions ot the arteries are Ids than thoie of the veins, i e. twice or aim ft thrice as flow. Another argument of the circulation is the compreflure and relaxation of a vein, where- by the motion of the blood is promoted from one valve to another. The motion of the blood through the veins is u- niform or equable ; but in the arteries, it is alternately greater when the vefiel is more dilated, and lefs when it is contracted. This is proved by ocular infpedtion in living animals. That the motion of the blood is a continued courfe through the fanguincous arteries into the veins, is difcovered from experience. For, firft, it is certain, that all the arteries and veins communicate or open the one into the other; be- caufe, often from one. and that a fmall artery, all the blood of the whole body may be evacuated. We hive numerous examples of fatal hemorrhagics from an inner artery of the nol’e, from the gums, from a finger, from a tooth, from a cu- taneous pore enlarged, from the pundtum lacrymale, from the wound of cupping, and even from the bite of a leech. There are, therefore, of courfe, optn ways, by which the blood fpeedily flows from the venous into the arterial fyftem. That the blood, again, in the arteries, flows from the heart towards the extreme parts of the body, is proved by the mi- crofcope, and by a ligature on the artery of a living animal, and likewife by the fabric, mechanifm, and proportion of the femilunar valves between the arteries and their correfponding ventricles. Whatever artery is flopped by a ligature, the fwelling enfues in that part between the heart and the liga- ture. whilft the other part beyond the ligature, which is more remote from the heart, is emptied. Neither has it there any pulfation, nor, if it be there wounded, will it yield any blood. The fame effedts which we fee fol- low from a ligature, are likewife often produced by dif- eafe ;Chap. it. 251 OF THE BLOOD. «afe; as when fame tumour, by compreflure or an aneurifm, intercepts the blood's motion from the heart. Experiments of this kind have been made on moft of the arteries; anaf. tomofes, however, or the blood flowing through a neighbour- ing branch, or tlie retroccffion of the blood in a dying ani- mal, form exceptions to thn rule. But the courfe or motion of the venous blood, has been always more doubted; aim oft all the antients have been perlaudcd, that the blood in the veins flowed through them, either from the heart or from the liver, to all parts of the body. Very lew of them have known that this was an error. Several of them have, indeed, acknowledged it to be falfe in the pulmonary vein. But that the blood did not move from the heart in the vena cava was known to ftill fewer anaromifts of the ancients: Only to Andreas Caefal- pinus by chance, and (from an extraordinary accident) to Ve- falius. Dr. William Harvey was the firft who experimentally afl. fcrted the motion of the blood returning in the veins to the heart, in fuch a manner as to render the whole intelligible, and leave no room for doubt. The valves of the veins lead us to this truth; For the common uie or office of thefe valves is, to determine the preflure that is made from any quarter upon the veins, towards the heart, by allowing no opportunity to the venous blood that has once entered the trunk to flow back to the. branches. For, Cnee the valves open upwards towards the heart, the blood enters and expanos them; and thofc parts of the valves which projedt into the cavity of the vein, approach towards the axis, until the oppoflte fides, by meeting together, (hut up the tube. This we know from inflations, ligatures, and injections of the veins ; for you never can force a liquor eaCly into the veins by propel- ling it againft their valves. They do not, indeed, every where25* CIRCULATION Part Vf. where {hut up the whole cavity of the veins but where they do not lhut dole, they always intercept the greeted part of the tube. Another office of the valves in the veins feems to be for fuftainmg the weight of the blood, that its upper columns may not gravitate upon the lower ; nor the blood, flowing through the trunk-, make too great a refillance agair.ft that which follows it through the branches : For if, from the flower motion of the blood, its weight or preflure (hall, in any part, much exceed the impulfe that drives it on, fo as to caufe fome part of the column to defeend by its weight, it is, in that cafe, immediately catched, and fuftained in its relapfe by the next adj icent valve, which hinders it from urging again!!: the next lucceedirg column, and affords time and op- portunity for fome contiguous mufcle, by its preflure or con- cuffion, to propel the column. This is the reafon why valves are placed in the veins of the limbs and necks, in which parts they are both morq numerous and more robuft than elfc- where. This is alio the caufe of varices, when the blood, entering the hollow valves, urges thrir fblid convexity down- wards, and makes the vein dilate in that part. Likewife, in mufcuLr action, the valves are the caufe of the whole tffed of the preflure which the veins fuftain, forwarding the blood in its due courfe towards the heart. Moreover, the valves placed in the right fide jof the heart are fo conltructed, that they freely permit blood, air, or wax, to pafs from the venous trunks of the cava into the heart, but deny any reflux from t;\e heart into the veins. Again, ligatures, in a living per fan, make this circumftance more evident. When the veins of the limbs are tied, either by deflgn or accident, about the hams, arms, ancles, or wrifls, the limb below the ligature fwells, the veins fill and diliend thcmiclves, and, when opened, make a free difeharge of blood ; But at the fame time nothing of this kind happens aboveOF THE BLOOD. Chap. II. .253 above the ligature, nor any of the veins to be feen there. The tame phenomenon happens when the veins are compref- fed by (welled or fcirrhous glands in the vjfceru ; and from poly pules the vei s are often greatly fwelled or enlarged into tun ours. Thete ligatures will lcrve to keep the blood in any limb round which they are tied, that it may not return to the heart, and be loll through a wound in another part. The experiments which have been made in living animals, to prove this courie of the blood, are hill more accurate. From them, even from our own, it appears, that by tying any vein, in a living animal, near the cava, or belonging to the pulmonary veins, that part always iwells which is molt remote from the heart, all below the ligature appearing dis- tended with the retained blood, whiie above and next the heart they are pale and flaccid. Laftly, if the arteries are tied at the tame time with the veins, thele lalt remain flaccid and empty; but, upon removing the ligature from the arte- ries, the veins are immediately tilled. In like manner, the infufion of poifons or medicinal liquors fliew, that, into whatever vein you inje£t chemical acid fpi- rits, the force of the poifon is driven along with the blood to the heart iticlf. That the brain is affected with the narcotic virtue of opium, and the intellines and ftomach with the virtue of purgatives and emetics injected into the veins, is a demonflration that the blood, with which thefe fubitances were mixed, had pafled through the ramifications of the veins to the heart, and from thence through the whole body. We have another proof in the transfufions of blood ; in which all the blood from the arteries of one animal is urged into the veins of another exhaufted of blood ; whereby the heart, arteries, and empty veins of the latter, becomes fo turgid, and well replenifhtd, that they produce a remarkable degree of vivacity in the animal, or even caufe it to labour under a plethora. ThatCIRCULATION' *54 Part VL That the blood pafies from the lcaft arteries into the leaft: veins, we are clearly taught by anatomical ivjeElion; where, by one arterial trunk, we ealily fill all the arteries a d veins, al- znoft throughout the whole body, provided the liquor be wa- tery, or very fluid, fo as to pafs eafiiy into the vefTels of the head, mefentery, heart, and lungs. Laiily, the microfcopt has put the matter beyond all doubt ; in the pellucid tails, feet, and melenteries, of animals, we fee that the blood, brought to the extreme parts by the ar- teries, is poured either into fmall veins continuous with the reflc&ed artery, or elfe goes through branches of the arterial trunk into the parallel •ommunicating vein, by which it goes on to the parts neareft the heart. This is the way in which the blood pafies, as well into the leaft veins which are capable of receiving only one globule, as into thofe that arc fomewhat larger, and are able to admit two or more globules to ad- vance forward together. That there is no lpongy or paren- chymous interpolition between the arteries and veins, in the general courfe of the circulation, is proved both from micro- icopic obfervations and injections. For, if there were any fuch parenchyma or fpongy mafs between the arteries and- veins, the hardening injeClions would fhew it, by appearing extravafated in an unfhapen mafs. The circulation of the blood is therefore now received by every one as a medical truth; namely, that all the blood of the human body is carried through the aorta, from the left cavity of the heart, to the extreme pares or converging ends of the arterial branches; from whence the whole trials is a- gain tranfmitted into the leaft veins, which convey it to tho larger, and from them into the cava and heart itfelf; in which courfe it perpetually goes and returns during life. Yet there are not wanting fome infLnces where, by pafi- fions of the mind, by copious blood-letting, or convul- sions, the blood has been forced to recede back from the fmallcrOF THE BLOOD. Chap. It. 2 55 fmaller into the larger arteries ; and, on the other fide, where an obfirudhon has been formed above the valves, the blood has been known to Aide bach fr> m the venous trunks into their fmalier branches. Bur then thefe accidents are very momentaneous or hidden, and the blood foon returns into its natural courle. Thefe things happen moll: frequently in the abdomen and vena portarum. The rourfe of the humours in the lymphatic veins which have valves, appears both from the nature of thofe veins, and from Jigatures: For every lymphatic vein, when tied, fwells between its (mailer extremities and the thoracic dudl; but grows flaccid between the duff and the ligature. All the valves in thefe, like thofe of the blood veins, give a free pafi- fage for flatus and mercury to flow to the thoracic dudt: But they make a refiftance, and often an obifinate one, to any return the other way ; although fomctiuies they have been known to yield. Ihe vapours that moiflen the whole cellular fubftance, the fleams of the abdomen and other cavities, are all abforUed by the leaf! pellucid veins, and fo conveyed to the blood veins, that their contained juices may pafs on to the heart : And from thence it is that otdema enlues, when a vein is comprtfled by a ligature; becauie, by intercepting the courfe of the abi« rbing veins by the ligature, the vapour* being un« abforbed, itagnate. In tine other imaller veliels we can make no experiments ; but they appear conformable to what we h ve laid of the iarger veflels, both from rtafon and ana- logy. Th is dodlrine is likewiie iupported by the experiments? of water, or other liquors, ablor'iecl out of. the cavity of the intefl nes, thorax, and pulmonary vcficles. Ali the juices, therefore, in the human body, are driven out of the heart into the aorta ; from whence they are all te- turned again to the heart by the veins; thofe humours •nly excepted which are exhaled or difeharged out of the body.256 Part VI. LUNGS. body. To complete this circle, it only remains for us to find out a courfe for the blood from the right to the left cavities of the heart ; but this firft fuppofes us to be acquainted with the hiftory of the lungs and the pulmonary vefiels. $ 9- Lungs. Situation in general, and figure. The lungs are two large fpongy bodies, of a reddifh colour in children, greyifh in adult fubjedls, and bluifh in old age: They fill the whole cavity of the thorax, one being feated in the right lide, the other in the left, and are parted by the mediailinum and heart. They are of a figure anfvvtring to that of the cavity which contains them ; that is, convex next the ribs, concave next the dia- i phragm, and irregularly flatted and deprefTed next the medi- ailinum and heart. When the lungs are viewed out of the thorax, they reprc- fent, in fome mealure, an ox’s foot, with the forepart turned to the back, the back part to the fternum, and the lower part to the diaphragm. Divifton and figure in particular. They are diflinguifhed into the right and left lung ; and each of thefe into two or three portions called tcbi, of which the right lung has com- monly three, or two and a half, and the left lung two. The right lung is generally larger than the left, anfwerable to that cavity of the breaft, and to the obliquity of the mediaf- tinum. At the lower edge of the left lung, there is an indented notch or finus oppofite to the apex of the heart, which is therefore never covered by that lung, even in the ftrongeft infpirations *, and confequently the apex of the heart and pe- ricardium may always ftrike againfl the ribs ; the lungs not furrounding the heart in the manner commonly taught. This finus is exprefled in Euftachius’s Tables. Stmc-Chap. If. t iy N G i *S7 StruBurc. The fubffance of rhe lungs is almoft nil fpongy, being made up of an infinite number of membranous cells, and of different forts of veffels Ipread among thefe cells, in innumerable ramifications. Coats- This whole mafs is covered bjf a membrane conti- nued from each pleura, which is commonly faid to be double ; but what is looked upon as the inner membrane, is only an expanfion and continuition of a cellular fubffance, which fhall be fpoken to after 1 have dcfcribed the veirels of this vif- cus. Bronchia. The veffels which cotnpofe part of the fub- ftarce of the lungs are of thtee or four kinds; the air-vefTels, blond veffels, and lymphatics to which we may add the nerves. The air veffels make the chief part, and are termed 1 bronchia. Thefe bronchia are conical tube®, compofed of an infinite number of cartilaginous fragments, like fo many irregular arches or circles, connected together by a ligamentary e- laftic membrane, and difppled in fuch a manner as that the lower eafily infinuate themfelves within thole above them. They are lined on the infide by a very fine membrane, which continually difcharges a mucilaginous fluid; in the fubffance of the membrane are a great number of f nail blood-vefiels, and on its convex fide many longitudinal lines, which appear to be partly flefiiy and partly made up of an elaftic fubffance of another kind. The bronchia are divided, in all direiftions into an infinite number of ramifications, which diminifh gradually in fize ; and, as they become capillary, change their cartilaginous ftruc- ture into that of a membrane. Befides thefe very fmall ex- tremities of this numerous feries of ramifications, we find that all the fuborffinatc trunks, from the greateff to the fmalleft, Vol. II, & k fend258 lungs. Part VL fend out from all fides a vaft number of fhort capillary tubes of the fame kind. Veficutae bronchi ales. Each of thefe numerous bronchial tubes is widened at the extremity, and thereby formed into a fmall membranous cell, commonly called a veficle. Thefe cells or folliculi are clofely connected together in bundles ; each fmall branch producing a bundle proportional to its ex- tent and the number of its ramifications. Lobhli. Thefe fmall veficular or cellulous bundles are termed lobules ; and, as the great branches are divided into . fmall rami, lo the great lobules are divided into feveral fmall ones. The cells or veficles of each lobule have a free com- munication with each o.her, but the feveral lobules do not communicate fo readily. Interlobular fttbjlatice The lobules appear diftinftly to be parted by another cellulous fubftance, which furrounds each of them in proportion to their extent, and fills up the inter- faces between them. This fubffance forms likewife a kind of irregniar membranous cells, which are thinner, loofer, and broader than the bronchial veficles. This fubffance is difperfed through every part of the lung?, forms cellulous or fpongy vaginae, which furround the rami- fications of the bronchia and blood vefleb, and is afterwards fpread over the outer furface of each lung, where it forms a kind of fine cellular coat, joined to the general covering of that vifeus. When we blow in this interlobular fubftance, the air com- prefies and flattens the lobuli ; and, when We blow into the bronchial veficles, they immediately fwell ; and, if we continue to blow with force, the air pafles infenfibly into the interlobu- lar fubftance. We owe this obfervation to M. Hclvetius. Vafeular texture. All the bronchial cells are lurrounded by a very fine reticular texture of the fmall extremities of arteries and veins, which communicate every way with each other.Chap .11. LUNGS. 259 other. The greatefl part of this admirable ftrutjture is the difcovery of the iliuftrious Malpighi. Blood-vejfels. The blood-veflels of the lungs are of two kinds ; one common, called the pulmonary artery and veins > the other proper, called the bronchial arteries and veins. '1 he pulmonary artery goes out from the right ventricle of the heart; and its trunk, having run1 dire&ly upward as high as the curvature of the aorta, is divided into two lateral branches ; one going to the right, called the right pulmonary artery; the other to the lett, termed the left pulmonary artery. The right artery pafles under the curvature of the aorta, and is confequently longer than the left. They both run to the lungs, and are difperled thrpugh their whole fubftance by ra- mifications nearly like thole of the bronchia, and lying in the fame directions. The pulmonary veins having been difiributed through the lungs in the fame manner, go out on each fide, by two great branches, which open laterally into the refervoir or mulcular bag of the right auricle. The ramifications of thefe two kinds of veffels in the lungs are furrounded every where by the cellular fubftance already mentioned, which likewite gives them a kind of vagina ; and the rete mirabile ot Malpighi, deferibed above, is formed by the capillary extremities of thefe velfels. It mult be obier- ved, that the ramifications of the arteries are more numerous and larger than thofe of the veins, which, in all other parts of the body, exceed the arteries, both in number and fize. Bronchial arteries and veins. Befides thefe capital blood- veflels, there are others called the bronchial arteries ana veinst which are very fmall, but they follow the bronchia thiough all their ramifications. They communicate with the pulmo- nary arteries and veins in many places ; and likewile with the arteries and veins of the oefophagus, and with the branches of the coronary artery and veijj. TUftLUNGS. Part VI. The varieties in the origins of the bronchial arteries and veins, efpecialiy of the arteries, their communications or a- naftomofes with each other and with the neighbouring vef- fels, and, above all, the immediate anoftomofis of the bron- chial ar-try with the common pulmonary vein, are of fo great confluence in the practice of phyfic, that it will be proper to repeat here what we have faid about them eliewhere, that the attention of the readers may not be diverted by being o- bliged to turn to ar.other part of this work. The bronchial arreries come fomerimes from the anterior part of the aorta defeendens funerior, fometimes from the firft intercoft 1 artery, a d fometimes from one of the oefo- phagaeae. They go out fometimes lepira’tly, toward each Jung ; fometimes by a Imall common ruuk, which afterwards divides to the right and left, near the bifurcation of the af- pera arteria, hereafter to be delcribed, and follow the ramifi- cations of the bronchia. The left bronchial artery frequently comes from the aorta ; and the right, from the fuperior intercoftal on the fame fide, becaufc of the fituation of the aorta. There is likewife ano- ther which arifes from the aorta pofferiorly near the fuperior intercoftal, and above the anterior bronchiaiis. The bronchial artery gives off a fmall branch to the auricle of the heart on the fame fide, which commun,cates immedi- ately with the coronary artery. Sometin.es one bronchial artery gives origin to fevcral fu- perior intercoftals ; and fometimes feveral bronchial arteries fend off fep^ratcly the fame number of intercoftals. The bronchial veins, as well as arteries, were known to Galen. The vein on the left fide goes into the left fuperior intercoftal vein, while the trunk on the right fide paffes into the vena azygos j and fometimss both veins are branches of the gutturalis. Nerves. The lungs have a great many nerves diftributeJ. throughChap. II. LUNGS. a6x through them by filaments wiiich accompany the ramifica* tions of the bronchia and blood-veflels, and are fpread on the ceils, coats, and all tiie membranous parrs of the lungs. The eighth pair, and great fvmpnthetic nerves, form, helvnd each lung, a particular interrexture, called plexus putmenans s front ivhence nervous filaments go out, which communicate with the plexus cardiacus and ftouiachicus. Lymphatic vejfels. On the furfoce cf the human lungs, between the external and cellular coat, we obfirve lymphatic vtfi Is: 13ut we ought to take care not to miffake for fuch veflels a tranfparent reticular fubftance oblervable on the furface of the lungs, after blowing llrongly into the lobuli ; this appearance being entirely owing to the air which pafies through the bronchial veficles into the interlobular cells, and which, by f’eparating a certain number of lobuli, finds room to lodge between them. Ligament/. Under the root of each lung, that is, under that part formed by the lubordinate trunk of the pulmonary artery, by the trunks of the pulmonary veins, and by the trunk of the bronchia, there is a broad membranous liga- ment which ties the polterior edge of each lung to the late- ral parts of the vertebrae of the back, from that root all the Way to the diaphr igmi. Trachea arteria. The bronchia already deferibed are bran- ches or ramifications of a large canal, partly cartilaginous, and partly membranous, called trachea or afpera arteria. It is fituaud anteriorly, in the lower part of the neck, from whence it runs down into the thorax between the two plue- rae, through the upper fpace left between the duplicature of the medialtinum. behind the thymus. Having reached as low as the curvature of the aorta, it di- vides into two lateral parts, one toward the right, the other toward the left, which enter the lungs, and are difiributed through them in the manner already deferibed, Thelc two branchesLUNGS. Part VL afa branches are called bronchia ; and that on the right fide is Ihorrer than that of the left, whereas the right pulmonary artery is the lungeft. 'ihe trachea confxits of fegments of circles or cartilaginous hoops, dilpoted in fuch a manner as to form a canal open on the back part, the cartilages not going quite round i but this opening is tilled by a foft glandular membrane, which com- pletes the circumference of the canal; but this cannot be to give way to the oefophagus, for, inftead of delcending im- mediately upon the middle ot that canal, the trachea inclines a little to the right fide, and the fame ltruflure is found in the back part of the great bronchial vcfftls, which are at fome diftance from the oefophagus. Each circle is about the twelfth part of an inch in breadth, and about a quarter of that fpace in thicknefs. Their ex- tremities arc round ; and they are fituated horizontally above each other, fii.all interftices being left between them, and the lower edge of the fuperior fegment being turned towards the upper edge of thofe next below them. They are all connected by a very ftrong elaftic membra- nous ligament fixed to their edges, i have obferved the firft three legments united into one fubftance, bent alternately in two different places, according to its breadth. Sometimes two are continuous in the fame manner. The trachea is covered externally with a quantity of cel- lular fubfiance, which unites it to the neighbouring parts, and it is lined on the infide by a particular membrane, which appears to be partly flefhy or mufcular, and partly li- gamentary, perforated by an infinite number of fmall holts, more or lefs imperceptible, through which a mucilaginous fluid continually pafles, to defend the inner furface of the trachea againft the acrimony of the air which we breathe. This fluid comes from fmall glandular bodies difperfed through the fubfiance of the membrane, but efpecially from , glands>263 Chap. II. LUNGS. v glands fomething larger than rhe former, which lie on the outer or pofi°rior furface of that flrong membrane by which the circumference of the canal is completed. The fame flru<fh.re is ohfervable in the ramifications of the trachea from the great'-ft to the fmallefl. All the veflels of which the lungs are chiefly cnmpofed, that is, the air veflels, or bronchia, and the blood veflels, or the pulmonary and bronchial arteries and veins, accompany each other through this whole vifcus. They are commonly difpofed in fuch a manner, even to the laft ramifications, as that a fuhordinate trunk or branch of the bronchia lies between the like trunks or branches of the pulmonary artery and vein ; the bronchial veflels being immediately joined to the bronchia. In fome place- thefe three kind of veflels touch each other in fuch a manner as to leave a triangular fpace in the middle The bronchia are divided into a very great number of ra- mifications ; and the lafl rami are the pedicles or footflalks of the fmall lobuli. All the lobuli are angular, oblong, broad, thin, &c. The footflalks fend out other fmaller mem- branous pedicles, which are very fhort, and terminate in the bronchial veficles or cells, of which they are continuations. The fuhordinate trunks and rami detach a great number of thefe pedicles from their convex furface. When we blow into the lungs, the bronchial cells, neireft their outer furface, appear like fmall portions of round vefi- cles-; and from this appearance all the bronchial cells have got the name of veficles, though they are all angular, except thole which 1 have now mentioned. When we examine a lung without blowing it up, we find that the cartilaginous ferments of the bronchia lie fo near as to be enga ed in each other; and in drawing out any por- tion of the bronchia by the two ends, thefe fegmenrs are parted, and the whole canal is incrcafed in length; but it contrailsI «^4 LUNG Si fart Vf. # tontra&s again, by means of its elaftic membrane, as loon as that force is taken off. When we open lengthwife ary portion of the pulmonary artery and vein in the fame lung, we meet wi.h a great num- ber of tranfverfe rugae, which are d< ftroyed when thefe vef- feis are elongated, iHis is an obfervation made by M. Hel- vetius. In confluence of this ftru&ure, all the ramifications, both of the bronchia and pulmonary arteric? ancl veins, have con- flaritly the lan e tiire&ior, whether the lung be inflated or collapfed ; and they contract in length, without being either contorted or folded. 1 hele vcffels are elongated in exlpira- tion, and (hortened in inipiration. Thefe three veflels lie in a lort of cellular vagina, which accompany all their ramifications j and is a continuation of their interlobular cells, or cellular lubftance in the interftices of the lobuli. The pelliculi which compofe it are, however, there difpofed in a more regular manner, and more longitu- dinally, than in other places, and thereby appear to form a true vagina. When we blow through a pipe introduced fo far as to touch immediately a trunk of the blood vcffels or bronchia, the air runs at firft: through all the cells that lie neareft that trunk or its branches; but if we continue to blow, it infi- nuates itfelf through the whole interlobular fubftance. Bronchial glands. At the angle of the firft ramification of the trachea arter'n, we find on both the fore and back fides certain foft, roundifh, glandular bodies, of a bluifh or black- ifh colour, but reddifh in a child ; in fize they v,.ry from that of a field bean to that of a millet feed. Through thefe the lymphatic veficls of the lungs pafs in their way to the thoracic duff. The trachea has feveral coats, as has been already obferv- cd. The outermoft or common covering furrounds that part efChap. II. LUNGS. 265 of the trachea which lies in the thorax; but out of the tho- rax, this firfl coat is derived from the aponeurotic expanfions of the muicles of the neck ; and it is between this and the following covering, that the glands already mentioned are fi- tuated. The fecond is a proper coat, being a continuation of the cellular covering of the lungs ; the pelliculae of which, neared the cartilaginous fegments, ferve them for an external peri- chondrium. The third membrane lies on the infide, adher- ing clofely to the lame cartilages, and fupplying to thefe the place of an internal perichondrium. The fourth membrane is that which completes the cir- cumference, of the cartilaginous circles of the trachea. It confifts chiefly of two laminae or flrata, partly mufcular and partly tendinous; die external or poflerior lamina’ confiding of longitudinal fibres ; an clothe internal, or anterior, of traniverie fibres. This membrane is perforated by the fmall dutfls of the above mentioned glands, which dilcharge a fluid when prefled, and being examined through a microlcope, they appear veficular or folliculous, much like that of the flomach The ligaments between the cartilaginous circles are very flrong and elaflic ; and each of them is confined to two car- tilages, without communicating with any of the red, being fix- ed to the edges of thefe cartilages, much in the lame manner as the intercodal mufcles are inierted in the ribs. As the bronchia penetrate into the fubdance of the lungs, they gradually lofe their cartilages, till at lad th< y become purely membranous ; but the mulcular lines of M. Morgagni appear as much, and fometimes more than before. The two planes, above mentioned, continue likewife to be vifible ; and we obferve very difiinclly, fometimes even without a micro- scope, a great many fmall holes in the pellicles of the lobuli, Vol. II. L1 anej.*66 L V N G S. Part Vf. and bronchial veficles or cells, which open from within out- wards. U/es* Refpiration is performed by organs of two kinds, one of which may be looked upon as aCtive, the other as paf- (iee. 1 he lungs are of the fecond kind, and the firfl com- prehends chiefly the diaphragm and intercoflal mulcles. A loon as the intercoflal mufcles begin to contract, the arches of the ribs are railed together with the flcrnum, and placed at a greater diflance from each other; by which means the cavity of the thorax is enlarged on the two late- ral and anterior lides. At the fame inftant the diaphragm is flatted or brought toward a plane by two motions, which are apparently con- trary; that is, by the contraction of the diaphragm, and the dilatation ot the ribs in which it is inferted. i he external furface of the thorax being thus in a manner increafed, and the cavity of the bronchia being at the lame time, and by the fame means, lels reiilted or prefled upon, the ambient a:r \ields to the external preflure, and lnlinuates itlclf into all the places where the preflure is dinunilhed ; that is, into the alpera arteria, and into-all rhe ramifications of the bron- chia, all the way to the veficles. 1 his is what is called ltfpi- rathn. 1 his morion of infpiration is inflantaneous, and ceaies in a moment, by the re axatio'n of the intercoflal mufcles; the elaflic ligame’ ts and cartilages of the ribs bringing them bark at the fame time to their former firur.rion. I bis mo- tion, by which the ribs are deprcfTcd and brought nearer to each other, is termed cxfpiration. The pulmonary arteries and veins, which accompany the bronchia through all their ramifications, and fun-ound the ve- ficles, trail! to it rhe bi'ood through their narrow capillary ex- tremities, and thereby change or modify it, at leaft in three (different manners.267 Chap. II. respiration. The firft change or mo lificarion which the blood under- goes in the lungs, is to have the cohehon of its parts broken, to be attenuated, and, as it were, reduced to powder. The iecond is, to be deprived of a certain quantity of ferum, which tr.mfpires through the lungs, and is what we com- monly call the breath. The third is, to be in a manner re- animated by the impreffion of the air, whether the whole body of the air enters the blood, whether the common air is only the vehicle of home finer parts which are conveyed to it, or whether the air only comprtrfles and (hakes the blood as it pafles round the bronchial vehicles in the reticular capillary extremities of the veffels. The cartilages of the afpert arteria and bronchia ferve in general to compofe a canal, the fides of which will not fink in or fubfide by compreflion, but will neverrhelefs yield to certain preiTures and impulfes without breaking. As thefe cartilages are not complete circles or rings, and.as their cir- cumferences are completed by elaftic membrane1, they allow of thole dilatations and contractions which modulate the voice ; and as they are connected by elaftic ligaments of a con- fiderable breadth, the alternate elongation and contraction of the bronchia is facilitated in the motions of refpiration. The larynx is commonly looked upon as the upper part of the afpera arteria : But we have already delcribed it in the preceding chapter of the Head, with which it has a particular connection in relation to the tongue. § to. Refpiration. The lungs completely fill the facs formed by the pleura. They are freely fulpencled by the great blood vef- fels, unlefs you call that a ligament, which is made by the external membrane of the pleura going to the lungs, and to the balls of the diaphragm. Between the lungs and pleuraRESPIRATION*. Part VI. 2 OB pleura is found a watery or rather ferous vapour, of a coagu- lable nature, like that of the pericardium •, which vapour tranfudes from the iurface of the lungs continually in the foetus, and not unfrequently in the adult. This is fometimes increafed lo as to form a droply, or thickens into a kind of febaccous matter; or, laftly, concreting into fibres, joins the lungs to the pleura. The veficles of the lungs do not receive the air by a fingle orifice from the trachea, as a vial; but the air, exhaling from the leaf! branches of the trachea, is admitted in fitch a manner into their irregular fpaces, that it freely fpreads through them from any one part of the lungs into a'l the reft, and returns again in like manner. This is demon- ftrated by inflation, which drives the air even through the leaft branches of the trachea into the fmalleft lobes ; from whence it readily paftes into all the reft. Nor, in man and finaller animals, fays Haller, is the cellular fabric of the in- tervals fhut up trom the veficles of the lungs ; but accor- ding to Sabatier and other late writers, there is no communi- cation between the common cellular fubftance and the cells of the lungs. The air is driven into thefe veficles through the trachea, which ariles from the larynx ; and in the upper part of the thorax is received between the laminae of the pofterior part of the mediaftioum. Its laft branches are invifible, which exhale the air into the cellular fpaces of adult lungs, and likewife receive the watery vapours exhaling from the arteries into thefe fpaces from whence they are thrown by exfpiration. The quanti'y of blood which enters into the lungs is ex- ceedingly great, equal to (or even perhaps greater than) that which is fent in the fame time throughout the reft of the body ; which, therefore, demonftrates fbme very confiderable life proper to this vifcus. And that air is concerned in the ufe269 respiration; Chap. II. ufc of the lungs, appears from the unlverfal confent of na- ture, fince we fcarce find any animal without breathing; it appears alfo from the firu&ure of the lungs in the foetus, in. which, for want of air, they are ufelefs, receiving only a fmall portion of the blood, which the pulmonary artery condufts from the heart. We come next, therefore, to fpeak of re- fpiration, i. e. the operation by which the air is drawn into, and expelled from the lungs. The element of air appears from the principles of philo- fophy, to be an elaftic and fonorous fluid, with a fpring which cannot be deftroyed. But the atmofpherical air, which, we commonly receive into the lungs, is impure, filled with a great quantity of watery and other vapours, alfo with falts and the univerfal acid, with the feeds of plants and animals, and other foreign matters, but in very minute particles ; the fpeciric gravity of air 859 times lefs than water, a cubic foot of air weighing between 610 and 694 grains. This air, which furrounds the earth on all fides, being prefled by the incumbent columns of its own mafs, perpendicularly, lateral- ly, and in all directions, enters forcibly wherever it meets a lefs refiftance, as appears from experiments made with the air-pump. Its preflure upon the human body is not lefs than 3000 pounds weight. It is repelled chiefly by the pores of the membranes, which are yet permeable by water : It lrke- wife penetrates oil or mucus with difficulty. This 21 r is excluded from all parts < f the human body by the furrounding clofe Ikin, which, even when dry, is imper- vious to the air ; and, in the living body, the flein becomes ftill more impervious, on account of the. fat under it filling the pores. We lhall next inquire into the reafon why, and the manner in which the lungs receive air into their fub- ftance; and this invefligation becomes the more difficult when we reflect that the lungs of an adult are always full of air, which, on a flight view of the fubjeft, we might imagine would2}Q respiration. Part VT. woiud refift the entrance of a frefh quantity. That the lungs aiv/ays contain air is evident ; becaufc, however clofe you cotnprefs them, they will be fifll lighter than water ; and, e- ven in the foetus, after they have l^cen inflated but a few times, they always fwim 5 whereas they fink, in water if they have not .given admittance to the air. The equilibrium of the air’s prefiure being removed in any place, it conftantly defeends or flows that way where it is le2ft refilled. But air that is denfe and heavy will defeend more e.ifily than fuch as is light. A;r will not enter the lungs, if it is not lo denfe as to overcome the force of the air already in the lungs, the refiflance of the bronchia, and the prefiure of the lungs themfelves. Hence an animal lives bet- ter in a denfe than in a light air ; although light air is al- ways more tolerable, if it be at the fame time pure, than denfe air ; fuch as that of the high mountains of the Alps. That air may enter the lung«, the air which is already in the cellular fabric of the lungs mud be rarified ; But this elfcdt will follow, if the cavity of the thorax, in which the lungs are contained, and which they exactly fill, be dilated. Thus the air, which is always in the lungs, expands into a larger fpace; by which, being weakened in its fpring, it makes a lefs refiflance to the external air ; and confequently a portion of the external air defeends into the lungs, fufficient to re- flore the rarified air in the lungs to the fame denfity with that of the external air. In order to dilate the lungs, and thus to induce fuch a Rate as that the external air may rufh into the lungs, it is necef- fary for the thorax to be elevated. By this means, all the fe&ions of the thorax form right angles, and its capacity is increafed. This motion is performed by various mufcles, which either operate constantly, or only at certain times. The intercoftal mufcles, therefore, all of them add perpetually in elevating the ribs: But fome doubt has arifen about the adlion27* RESFIR A T IO N. Chap. II. a&ion of the internal intercoftals ; becaufe their lower part is inferted into that portion of the rib which is neared its arti- culation with the vertebrae, and which therefore feems to be the lead moveable : However, they nevcrthelds elevate the ribs ; for the great firmnels or immobility of the upper rib, exceeding that of the lower, is evident from the articulation, weight, and ligaments there formed, which furpafl'es that mo- bility, arifing from the greater didancc of the centre of mo- tion. This appears from the difleffion of living animals; in which we fee the inner intercodal mufcles operate in the ele- vation of the nbs, and red in the depreffion of them. It all’o appears, from a flexible thread being fixed to the rib of a hu- man fkeleton, and drawn in the fame direction with that of the fibres of the inner intercodal mufcles, by which means the lower rib will be always approximated towards the upper. The greater firmnefs ado of the upper ribs proves this cir- cumdancr, as they ferve for a fixed point to the lower ones : For the fird or uppermod ribs are from eight to twelve times firmer, and lefs moveable, than the lower true ribs ; but the difference of didance in them from the centre of motion is fcarcely the twentieth part of the length of their whole lever. Ladly, the elevating power of the internal intercodal mufcles appears plainly by experiment in a dead fubjefl; when, by the thorax being raifed, the mufcles inftantlv (well. By the y<fcion, therefore, of thefe mufcles, the thorax is e- levated, not altogether as one machine ; nor would refpira- tion be aflided by fuch a motion ; but the ribs turning upon their articulations, though behind they are but little moved, yet the fore part of their extremities defeends, and forms lar- ger angles both with the dernum and vertebrae; but, from thence, in the middle of their arches, by alcending, their lower edges are drawn upward ; at the fame time, the dernum is thrujft out forward more from the vertebrae and from the ribs. Thus the ribs are both removed farther from the ver- tebrae,Part VI. ayz respiration. tebrae, and the right ribs from the left; and each diameter of the thorax, i. e the diftance between the right and left xibs, and the diftance between the flernum and the vertebrae, are increaled alruod to two line- : And therefore this enlarge- ment, in every imaginable ledtion of the thorax, will lufil- ciently dilate its cavity. This a<flion of the ribs is more par- ticularly complete in women, and in men who have no fhort- ftefs of breath. Thele effects are produced leaft of all by the £rft ribs, but more by the following ones. In very drong in- fpiration, the ribs defcend both behind and before; and, along with thefe, the dernum and the fpaces between the car- tilages are lefTened. But this dilatation alone is not fufficient for healthy breathing; nor is it fo confpicuous or evident in men ; although, in them, the intercoflal mufcles, bv retaining and elevating the ribs, very much alfid the infpiration while they afford a fixed point to the diaphragm, that the whole force of that mufcle may be fpent, not fo much in deprelfing the ribs, as in urging down the abdomen. I'he greater part, therefore, of the fpace which the thorax gains in infpiration, arifes from the action of the diaphragm ; the centre of which is more moveable and at liberty than the red ; except in the middle of its tendinous part near the flefhy margin, where the incumbent heart makes a refidance ; but the lateral parts and the flefhy portions belonging to them are the mod move- able. There are two holes in the diaphragm ; of which that on the right fide of its tendinous part is fomewhat fquare, and eircumfcribed by four drong tendinous portions; the lefr, which is elliptical, lies between the right and left flefhy por- tions, which arife from the middle of the bodies of the ver- tebrae of the loins : Under this opening they decuflate and crofs each other once or twice, but above they end in the tendon. This left opening is therefore drawn clofe together in the eontra&ion of the diaphragm, while it is probable that theChap. II. RESPIRATION. 273 , m the other opening remains immoveable. The tendons are but little changed in the motion of the mulcles. The ftrudiure of the parts, and the difledtion of living ani- mals, demonftrate, that the flelhy portions of the diaphragm, which on all lides afcend from the firm parrs to the middle ' and more moveable, do, by their contraction, deprels the middle, and by that means draw down the lateral bags of the thorax, which contain the lungs •, and, by this means, the perpendicular diameter of the thorax is confiderably in- creafed. The flefhy parts are more deprefled j the tendon ■'lefs; both becaule it is fixed to the pericardium, and becaufe its own lubftance does not contract, fiven the oelophagus and vena cava are contracted, while the diaphragm exerts its adtion. So that the diaphragm almolt alone perform the office of relpiration in a Healthy man at relt. The dia- phragm is alio the chief inllrument of relpiration in the cale of fractured ribs or lternum, or where the ribs cannot be moved without exciting confiderabie pain. The force of the diaphragm alfo, in dilating the brealt, is greater, according to the calculations that have been made, than all the reft of the powers which contribute to relpiration. A great infpiration is fomewhat hindered ; becaule, during the greatelt exertio . of the diaphragm, the lowermoft ribs are brought inwards, and thus the thorax is ftraightened. Left this fhould always happen, the intercoftal mulcles interfere in ordinary inlpira- tions j in the very great ones, they ar.e inferior to the dia- phragm. The phrenic nerve, which is more eallly lrhtated than in moft other mulcles, forces the diaphragm to perform its office. The lungs themfelves are altogether paffive or o- bedient to the adtion of the air; and alfo to that of the ribs and diaphragm, to which they are prefled into cf.fe contadt on all lides ; and we fometimes fee them even prefled through a large wound of the thorax ; and fometimes, when the cavity Vox.. II. M m is274 RESPIRATION. Part VI. is whole, we fee them through the tranfparent pleura, and parr of the diaphragm But, in larger infpirations, when a greater quantity of blood is driven into the lungs, and when there is any ob- ftacle or difficulty oppofed to the adfion of the lungs them- felves j in thole cafes, leveral other powers confpire to ele- va e the thorax. Which powers are inferted either into the thorax, clavicles, or fcapulae •, fuch as the fealeni mufcles, trapczii, cervicales delcendentes, fl-rrati fuperiores, and pedto- rales ; together with the (mall elevators. We have now deferibed the powers which are able to in. creafe the capacity of the thorax in all its three dimenfions. By thefe the cavity of the bread: is dilated, fo that it com- press the lungs l'efs than before : The lungs then drive to diffufe themfelves over that fpace, by the. expanfion of the' air contained in them, when the preffiire is removed. With- out that mufcular force, the lungs have no proper power of their own, by which they are capable of attradling air. Even when thty are full of air, if the afpera arteria be clofed, the animal vehemently attempts to infpire, by the efforts of its in- tercoftal mufcles and diaphragm. The air, which is preffed on all fidcs by the incumbent columns of the atmoiphere, enters the thorax with the greater force, in proportion as the lungs contain lefs air; and yet more powerfully if they contain no air; but with no f roe at ail, if the air admitted through a wound in the breaff j refles upon the external furface of the lungs. \ In this acli n, therefore, which is called infpiration, the bron- chia are every way increafed, both in length and diameter; becaufe all the diameters of the thorax are increafed ; and the inflated lungs always keep contiguous to the pleura, without leaving any in errnediate fpace. At the fame time, the pulmonary blood veflcls being contained in the lame cellular covering with the biomhia, are, with them, extended in length, and fpread out into larger angles; by which means . theChap. II. RESPIRATION". 2 75 the circulation through them is rendered eafler. While this is performing, the veficular (ubltance, or flelh of the lungs themfelves, filled with air, increales thole (paces through which the capillary blood vclTels of the lungs advance ; where- by the veficular preflure upon e..ch other, and up'on thole vellels adjacent, is leflened. Thus, therefore, the blood will flow with greater eale and celerity into, and through, the larger and finaller veflcls of the lungs. Hence a dying animal is revived by inflating its lungs, and facilitating the pa 11 age of the blood to the left ventricle of the heart; and thus people, feemingly dead by being kept a long time under avater, are again recovered. The preflure of the air upon the blood in the lungs, in this aClion, is fo inconfiderable as not to dtferve our notice, being at leal! 300 times Ids than the force of the heart, and can never urge the air into the blood. Some anatomifts luppofe, that a quantity of air is contained between the lungs and the fides of the thorax ; and that this air is contracted during inlpiration, and being again expand- ed, prefles the lu» gs, and caufes' expiration. They fu, port thtir opinion by producing ii Hat ces of birds where this faCt undoubtedly obtains. But we lee every thing concurs, to confute theie opinions with rclpeCt to man and quadrupeds, &c- ; for, immediately under the ptleura, in living quadru- peds, as'well as in dead human bodies,ithe lungs are vilible, without any intermediate fpace between them ; but the pleura being perforated, the lungs are immediately, by the conti- guous air that enters, prtfled together towards the vertebrae. In birds, indeed, the lungs being pervious to the air, admit it into the cavity of the thorax through large holes in their lub- flance. But in theie animals there is a manifeft ipace between the lun^s and the pleura. Large wounds, admitting the air only into one cavity of the thorax, diminilh the refpiration ; but, fuch wounds as let the air into both cavities, quite fuf- focate or fupprefs the refpiration. The thorax being opened underRESPIRATION* Part VI. 276 under water, fends out no bubbles of air through the water; but, in birds, it does, becaufe they have air in their thorax. It there fhould accidentally be ai y fpacc between the lungs and the thorax, it is always filled up by a watery or ferous vapour, or elfe by the fame vapour condenfed into a watery lymph. If the lungs adhere, they injure the refpiration but in a fmall degree, which ought entirely to ceafe, if it requi- red an intermediate air between the lungs and thorax. Fi- nally, the external air being admitted to any of the internal membranes of the human body, deftroys their texture, if they are not defended by a plentiful mucus ; of which we can find none upon the furface of the pleura. But relpiration, whether by the admixture of a fub-putrid vapour, or by fome other method, certainly vitiates the air, and renders it unfit either for inflating the lungs or fupport- ing flame ; and laftly, it deprive'* that element of its elafticity. We may iup; ole that this happens from putrrfaction, fince the air is rendered peftilential by a crowd, and fevers of the moil malignant kind are thus generated in a few hours. But, in whatever manner this is produced, we are certain that the air is vitiated in the lungs, lol'es its elaflichy, and thus can- not keep the lungs dillended, fo as to tranfmit an increafed quantity of blood through the dilated pulmonary arteries in- to the veins. Nor can the will dilate the breafi beyond cer- tain bounds, or affilf that paflage of the blood in an unlimit- ed manner- A flare of body, therefore, will take place, ia which the blood cannot pafs through the lungs. Thus is generated a new refinance to the blood continually coming from the heart : And in long retentions of the breath, as in making violent efforts, the venous blood, efpe- cially that coming from the head, flagnates -before the right ventricle of the heart, which is fhut, becaufe it cannot eva- cuate itlelf into the lungs, and thus fwells up the face with rednefs, fometimes burfts the veins of the brain, neck, inteP tines.*7? Chap. II. RESPIRATION. tines, kidneys, and laftly of the lungs and even right auricle; of the heart. This ftagnation of the blood occafions prodi- gious anxiety and uneafinefs to the fpirits ; it is alfo the caufe of death in comprelfed air, in drowned people, and fuch as are ftrangled, which is much more fuddcn than is commonly imagined. A living perfon, therefore, that he may remove thofe inconveniences which proceed from an obftru&ion of the paflage of the blood, flackens the powers of infpiration, and excites thole of expiration, which free the breait from an air too greatly rarified. Thefe powers are, firft, the eladicity of the ribs ; which being drawn upwards out of their natural fituation, as loon as the powers which elevated them ceafe to a£t, fpontaneouf- ly place themfelves, fo as to make more acute angles with the flernum and .vertebrae. To this end conduces likewife the elaftic force of the bronchia and veficles diftended with air, which ftrive to contract themfelves. Hence exfpiration is performed more eafily and quickly than infpiration j and hence it is the laft action of dying people. The abdominal mulcles all contribute to contract the tho- rax. The refli, which are fixed to the ofia pubis by one end, and to the lower ribs by the other, being contracted-; deprefs the arch or convexity, into which the abdominal vifcera are thrult by the diaphragm : At the fame time the abdominal vifcera are prefied by thofe mufcles upward and backward a- gainft the diaphragm, which alone is able to give way, and yield toward the thorax, which at that time is rendered fhorter. The obliqui, for the fame reafons, comprefs the lateral parts of the abdomen, and urge the liver and llomach backwards, and prefs them towards that place where there is , the leaft refifiance. Lafily, they draw down the ribs which were before elevated by the intercoftals. The tranfverfales, indeed, do not draw the ribs; but they pull the cartilages of the faife ribs a little inward, and render the whole capacity •fRESPIRATION. Part VI. 278 of the abdomen lefs, while at the fame time they prefs the vifcera againft the diaphragm. Along with thele we may reckon the powers of the fterno-coftal and long intercoftal mufcles, which are called deprejjbres. By this joint force the fiiperior ribs defcend ; but the middle ones more, the upper- jnoft lefs, the loweft mod of all ; and their margins being brought inward, the cartilages afcend, and return into acute angles with the fternum, and the llernum itfelf returns back- wards with the ribs. By thefe means the thorax, contrary to its former ftate, is every where rendered narrower and fhorter, fo as to expel as much air out of the lungs as is fufficient to relieve the uneafinefs caufed by its retention. In more powerful refpirations, when the infpirations are made greater, the exfpirations are likewife increafed by the afliftance of fome other powers, as of the lacrolumbalis, lon- giflimus, and quadratus mufcles of the back and loins. Ibis force, by which the air is blown out of the lun s, is lufficient to carry a leaden bullet, weighing about a dram, to the dis- tance of 3^3 feet ; which force is equal to a third part of the preffure of the atmofphere. But, in a healthy pfrlon, the mufcles of the abdomen alone produce an ealy exfpira- tion, in which the lungs are not fo much emptied of air as they arc by a violent efflrtion. The effefts of exfpiration are, a compreffure of the blood- veffcls in the lungs, a redu&ion of the bronchia into more a- cute angles, a pfeffure of the reticular fmall veffels by the weight and contadi of the adjacent larger veffels, and an ex- pulfion of the corrupted air from the lungs; by which means part of the blood adhering in the capillary arteries, is urg- ed forward through the veins to the left fide of the heart, whi'e at the fame time that part of the blood is refilled which flows in by the artery from the right ventricle. Ex- fpiration, therefore, will flop the eafy paffage of the blood through the lungs; and when the whole thorax is compref-Chap. II. RESPIRATION. 279 fed together, repels the venous blood into the veins of the head, and fills the brain and its finufes. The inconveniences produced by exfpiration, excite new efforts for repeating the refpirat:on ; bccaufe the collapfed vcffels of the lungs refill the blood expelled from the right ventricle of the heart. Hence the caule of death in thofc « animals which expire in veffels exhaufted of air : For their lungs being void of air, become denle, lohd, and heavier than water, whence they are rendered impervious to the blood. Of the fame kind is the death of thole who are killed by lightning, and, perhaps, by the noxious vapours of caverns. How admirable are the liructure and mechanifm in thefe or- I ■ gans of relpiration 1 The unealy fenfations of a too long con- tinued exfpiration, which arile from hindrances of the blood’s paffage through the lungs, excite into adtion the powers of inlbiration, whereby the blood’s paffage through the lungs is rendered again more free and eafy ; and, vice verfa, the uneafinefs proceeding from a too long continued infpiration, excite the powers of exfpiration. It is queftioned, by fome authors, Whether or no there are not other caufes of alternate relpiration ? Whether or no we may hope for any difeovery in this matter by comprefling the vena fine pnri, the phrenic nerve, or intercepting the blood lent to the brain ? But thefe opinions are repugnant to comparative anatomy, by which we always find the fame al- ternation in the breathing of the animal, independent of any fuch nerve or vein. Whether or no relpiration is from the alternate contraction of the antagonift mufcles, among which thofe of exfpiration relax the others of inspiration, and the reverfe ? This doctrine leems improbable, becaufe all the mufcles of the human body are perpetually in an alternate motion. From what has been hitherto faid, it appears, that refpira- tion is unavoidably and abfolutely neceffary to life in a healthyRESPIRATION. Part V*. healthy adult perfon ; becaufe, whether the lungs remaih long in a fiate either of exfpiration or infpiration, we fee death will foon be the confequence. No animal, therefore, that has lungs like ourfelves, after it has once breathed, and received the air into the inmoft parrs of the lungs, and by that means brought a new and large quantity of blood to that vifeus, can fubfift longer than a few minutes without the ufe and benefit of a free air; but it will either perifh, or at leaft fall into fuch a ftate as differs from death only in its being recoverable again by certain powers or a&ions. In an animal lately born, this neceffity for air does not take place fo fud- denly. But the ufe of refpiration is different from this neceffity j which nature might have avoided, either by ufing no lungs at all, or elfe by difpofing them in a manner relembling thofe cf the foetus. This ufe, therefore, of refpiration mud be very-confiderable, fince all animals are either made with lungs, or with gills, as in filh, or elfe with a trachea dilperfed through, all parts of the body. In order to difeover this ufefulnefs of refpiration, let us compare the blood of an adult perfon with that of a foetus, and alfo with the fame vital fluid in fifhes. It appears then in a foetus, that the blood is deftitute of its florid rednefs and fo- lid denfity •, and in the blood of fiflies, we obferve there is n* ■heat, the denfity inconfiderable, and but little craffamenturh contained in it; and therefore we are perfuaded, by the na- ture of thefe circumflances, that the blood acquires all thefe properties in the lungs. It may be afleed, therefore, Whether the blood d®es not acquire its heat principally in the lungs ? But this does not arife from the alternate extenfion and contraction, relaxation and compreffion, of the pulmonary veffels, by which the fo'- lid parts of the blood are perpetually rubbed and clofely compretfed. The lungs, therefore, will add to the office of theRESPIRATION. Chap. II. *8r the reft of the arteries, becaufe in them the blood is alter- nately relaxed and comprefied, more than in any other ^.irt of the bbdy. But even when the lungs are obflrutftrd, ulce- rated, and almoft dcftroved, a morbid heat feizcs upon the body; and in the lungs the cold air very nearly touches the blood. The denfity of the blood is fomewhat increafed in the lungs, by the copious difcharge Ot the watery vapour which is there feparatcd. by which the reft of the u als becomes fpecifically heavier But the lame effltft leems to follow here as in other arteries, namely, from the attrition and pref- fure which the blood here lufters in being alternately retar- ded, accelerated, and figured in its courle through the mq- dulating tubes of the leaf! veflels, which gives a roundnefs and denfny to the particles j hence it becomes denier, as hav- ing more of the weighty globules, and lels ot the lighter fluid. And, in this relpctft, the pulmonary vein being lmallcr than its correfponding ariery, is of no lmall ufe towards increafing the attraflion of cohefion between the parts ot the(globmes, fo as to comprefs and bring them clofer to each other. JNe- verchelels, cold animals, which have very fmall lungs, have denfe and coagulable blood j -as alfo a chicken beiore it is hatched; The blood alfo has a fhort paflage through the lungs : The paflage through the whole body is longer, and the artery weaker ; the fide of the heart, by which the blood is driven forward, is alfo weaker. It is queried by iome anatomifts, Whether the air itfelf is hot received by the blood in the lungs, fo as to excite necefi. fary vibrations therein ?\ Whether t,his does not appear from the refiftance of bodies to the heavy external air -, from the air found in the blood veflels, in the cellular fubftance, and in certain cavities of the human body ; from the cracking obferved by an extenfion of the joints ; from air manifeftly extravaf'ated from the trachea into the hearts of certain ani- Vol. II. N n , mals. /232 RESPIRATION. Part VL mals, as in the locuft ; from our being able to extrifl air out of die blood and humour' of animals in vacuo ; from a ne- cefiity of a vital oiciliation in the blood ltfelf ■, and, laflly, from the jncrtafea redni is of the pulmonary blood ? But that no elaffic air is here received into the blood, ir demonftrated, from the impnffibility of forcing air into blood, if it retains its elailiciryi from the inutility of its reception, if the fpring of it fhould be loft in the blood , from the per- fect immutability of the blood by cold ; from the minutenefs of the inhaling vefiels ; from the mucus that perpetually lines the fides of the veficles in the lungs; from the nature of the daflic air itfelf, which is very unapt to pals through capillary vefiels *, from a repulfion of it by water, for it is hindered from palling through paper, linen cloth, or fkins, when they are wet. Again, the air taken in by the trachea never pufles to the heart ; or, whenever it does fo, it is forced thither by fome great or unnatural violence : But the permanent air in the Vefiels and humours of the human body, from a date of inelaflicity, may become elaltic by putrefaction, froft, or an'external vacuum. Such permanent unelaftic air is incor- porated with alj liquors, and taken into our ,bodies with the aliments, and with abforbed vapours, mixing flowly and with fome difficulty. But there never were any elaflic bubbles of air obferved in the blood of a living animal •, and fuch air being inflated into the blood vefiels of any living animal, certainly and fpeedily kills it. Laftly, though air, indeed, is abforbed by moft of our humours, yet that abforption is performed flowly, and fakes up the fpace of leveral days after the former air has been exhaufled by the pump. It then like- wife, lays slide its elaflic naiure; nor are there any reafons why the air ffiould 'either be more fpeedily abiorbed by the blood, or why it fliould retain its elafticify after it is fo abiorbed. “ If,283 Chap. II. , RESPIRATION., ‘‘ If, in a few words,” fays Dr Wrifberg, “ I might offer my opinion about the air fiund in our bodies, the origin of which has been the balls of fo many difputes, I am perfuaded that the atmofpheric air is a very compound fluid, confuting of parts of a very different nature and quality, which parts, when mixed wuh any primogenial fluid as a vehicle, make the common air we inhale in infpiration. This primogenial fluid is, perhaps, that air which we obferve in animals, vege- tables, and likewifc in the earth itfelf, differing only accord- ing to the various lubltances with which it is united. If there is mixed, in a due proportion with this univcrial fluid, any elaltic, ethereal, eledtric principle, or any particle;- not yet fully underftood, perhaps there will refult laiubrious at- molpheric air. But it will become in'fedted and noxious in various degrees, from an admixture of purrefadfive lubftances, narcotic or inflammable luffucating elements. For that rea- fon it leems to me very proper, that our judgment about the falutary or noxious quality of the air lhouid be directed by thefi principles ; and we fhall be able to corredt unwhoic- fome air, provided we know what qualities that air ihould poffels which is moft properly fuited fo relpiration. * Is the blood cooled in the lungs? fs tips opinion confirm- ed by tive death of anipials in too great a degree of heat ? Are not the pulmonary veins lefs than the arteries ? Is this the reaion why laborious people prefer cold ? That the blood is cooled in the lungs is thus far true, as it warms the contiguous air, and therefore loirs lomerhi? g of its own heat. That this was not the principal dtfign of nature, is evident from the well known fad!, that the venous blood is not hot- ter than the arterial; and nobody ever oblerved the left ven- 'tricle of the heart cooler than the right. Belides, a perion may live in an air much hotter than the blood itfelf,vof which we have examples in baths and warm countries. In a foe,- \ tus l I I Irespiration, Part VI. 284 tus which docs not rcfpire, the right auricle and ventricle of the heart, and alfo the pulmonary artery, are much greater in proportion than in an adult, which feems neceflary to referve and retard the blood. . ' Is the rednefs of the blood produced by the air ? This feems alio to be contradicted by the well known faCt obferved in frogs, that the rednefs of their blood is in proportion to the quantity of food they ufe. Befides, we have before fhewn that the air does not come into immediate contaft with the blood in the lungs. We cannot, however, deny that, when the air comes into immediate cont>ct W'th the blood, its.red- nefs is increafed, and its colour becomes again pale when the air is excluded. It feems probable, from analogy, that, as light produces colour in vegetables, forr.e fubtle principle, imbibed by the blood from the air received into the lungs, may be the caufe of its red colour. , 1 ' • Does blood, by means of the lungs, abforb nitre from the / air ? or is the florid colour, obfervable in the lurface of a cake of blood, owing to the abforption of nitre from the air, while the bottom parts are of a dark and blackilh co-: lour ? If any thing be abforbed, is it a preservative againft the putrefaction of the animal ? Dr Haller (hews the abfur- dities of thefe fuppofirions, by chemical reafoning and expe- riment. What he advances would have been acknowledged as a complete refutation of the doCtrine, according to the re- ceived fyftenj of chemiflry at the time he wrote. But, laying all chemical reafoning afide, the opinion will be found to be altogether unfupportable, by attending to the following faCt, with which, indeed, Dr Haller doles his refutation. No ni- trous fait is difeovered in the blood. If it be afked, Why tortoifes, frogs, lizards, fnails, and fe- veral infedts, live long without air ? we anl'wer, That in them the lungs are given, not fo much for the preparation pf the blood, as for the ufe of fwimming: And from hence285 (Chap. II. RESPIRATION-. ] hence it is that their lungs, which receive only a fmall quan- tity of bloo^l, are immediately joined with the vena cava and aorta. But infedls, we know, draw the air in, and exhale it again, through pores in the fkin If it be afked, Why all ani- mals perifh in air that is not renewed ? we anfwer, Becaufe the air which has once entered the lungs, and been contami- nated by watery alkalefcent vapours, is rendered lefs elaftic, and confequently unfit for refpiration : Not becaufe it be- comes lighter ; for the mercury falls but little in air which has not been renewed, and which has killed an animal. Hence it is that the animal furvives longer in air that is denfer than the atmofphere in its ufual ftate; for in that cafe there is a greater proportion of the elaftic element, which takes up a longer time to corrupt. Even in other cafes, confined air is rendered deftruflive only by ftagnation, and filling it with va- pours. The reafon why animals fvvell in an exhaufted re- ceiver is, from the extrication of the unelaftic air lodged in the blood and other juices. Refpiration feems fomehow to agree with the pulfation of the heart, there being ordinarily three or four pulfes to one refpiration. And, if a greater quantity of blood is fent to the heart in a given time, the numbers both of the pulf$ and refpiration are increafed. This is the reafon of the pant- ing or (hort breathing, after exercife, or any confiderable mo- tion, which increafes the return of the blood to the heart. If the blood meets with a refiftaneje in the lungs, fo that jt cannot pafs freely from the right into the left ventricle of the heart ; then the reipiration is increafed, both in quicknefs and magnitude, in order to forward its courfe: And this is the caule of fighing, yawning, and panting ; of which the firft is a deep infpiration ; the fecond a flow and very great one ; and the third, a frequent knd imperfeft one. The number of refpirations, however, does not always hicreafe with the pulfe, y*286 RESPIRATION. Part VI/' pull'e, as we fee in thofe fevers where the lungs are not af- fedted. The mucus, which lines the fenfible membranes of the air- vefiels in the lungs, may become troublefome, both by its quantity and acrimony; it has been known to caufe even fuffbeation in a dropfy of the lungs. Its quantity, adhefion, or acrimony, therefore, excite a ebugh ; which operation, caufed by an irritation of the organs of refpiration, is per- formed by alternate large inlpirations, fucceeded by large and quick exf. irations, together with fudden lhocks of the at)do- minal mufcles ; and by thefe means the mucus, and fome- times calculous matters, are expelled from the lungs. Laughter differs from coughing in its caufe, which refides / (commonly in the mind, or at lealt coulifts in a certain titilla- tion of fome of the cutaneous nerves.; and a'lo in its adtion, which is one large inlpiration fucceeded by feveral imperfedt quick exf'piratious through the contracted glottis, the lungs being never totally evacuated of air. Hence laughter, in a moderate degree, conduces to health ; becaufe, inffead of one full inlpiration, many fhort inlpirations and exfpirarions hap- pen, and thus the concuffion is greater. Hence its danger of Ifagnating the blood; becaule the exfpiration is not full or entire, and the blood is admitted into the pulmonary artery without being iuffered to pafs through it. Weeping begins with a great inlpiration, after which follow fhort al- ternate inlpirations and exfpirations; and it is finilhed with, a deep exfpiration, that is immediately joined by a large in- fpiration : Hence it has nearly the lame good and bad ef- fedts ; and, when moderate, it conduces to relieve the anguilh arilingfrom grief. An hiccup is a very great, lonorous, and fudden inlpiration. Sneezing confids of one large or deep infpiration, which is followed immediately with a powerful and fudden exfpiration ; it evacuates with great violence any acrid or other fubftance irritating the noilrils.RESPIRATION. tCliap. IT* The fecondary ufes of refpiration are very numerous. It ; abforbs from the blood fome noxious particles which might perhaps fuffocate, if they were fuffered to remain. 1 hus, the breath of many people, fhut up in a dole place, impreg- nates the air with a fuffbearing quality. And the blood ab- iorbs trom the air a thin vapour, of which the ufe is perhaps not yet iuflic ently known. _ , “ Among the various ufes of refpirati n,'(fays Wr.fbcrg), all of which, indeed, are of conGderable tonleq ence, we may elleem as a principal one, the abforption of fome parts of the atmofphere more peculiarly adapted to the fup, ort of life. The lungs perhaps feparate, in confequence of their peculiar ftructure, this vivifying principle f om the other coriftituent elements of the atmofphere, and, thrptigh proper vcffels, con- vey it, thus feparated, into the circulating mafs. “ This fubftance has not as yet received any proper name *, nor do we fufficiemly know its nature and properties The denomination pabulum vitae, given to it by the celebrated Ray, feems to accord tolerably well with its nature ; for, when it was exhaufted from the air by ani i.als brrathing in clofe vef- iels. fuch animals inevitably died, unlefs a frefh quantity of atmof.iheric air was introduced into the vcffcl. The name of eleElric principle feems more firiy adapted to the Jubilance. By the oblervations of Gilbert, Guerick, Boyle, the Floren- tine academicians, Hawkfbee Du Fay, Mufchenbroeck, Wat- fon, Ludolph, Winckler, Nollet, Franklin, Hartman, Priefl- ley, and feveral others, both on the eledfricitv of bodies in ge- neral, as well as of the atmofphere in particular, ou,r know- ledge of it has been much increafed; and, by the experi- ments of Wilfon, Volla, Wilkens, GdlitZin, Lichtenberg, and others, it may lafely be afferted that the electric matter of • Subfequent phyfiologifts have at length afeertained the true nature of this fubttance ; and the French phllofophers have very appolitely called it vital air. It was known to the linghlh phi- lofopherj by the name depblogijhcated air.M RESPIRATION. PartVh of the air Is colledted in the mod Ample manner by almoft every body. From all thefe experiments we collect, I* That there is in the air a fluid which, in different ways, may be increafed in one place, and diininifhed in ano- ther j which, when colledted by proper machines, exhibits cledtric fparks; but, when colledted in the clouds, breaks forth in thunder and lightning. “ 2. If from its too great congeftion, in any region of the atmofphere, or in the clouds, the circumambient air wants its due proportion, our refpiration is lefs refrefhing, and our •firength grows languid ; but they are quickly renewed after a thunder lform, the equilibrium of the eledtric matter in the atmolphere being reftored, as it were, by the flafhes of light- ning. “ 3. Perhaps we may at length arrive at the knowledge of fomc artificial means by which we may be able to fupply this defedt of eledtricity in the atmofphere. A farther inveftiga- tion of this fubjedt may perhaps be not altogether ufelefs. “ 4. This eledtric matter pafles into the blood or lymph by innumerable pores and foramina, with which the infide of the larynx, al’pera arteria, and bronchia, abound. Upon the diversity of thefe holes^ both with refpedt to the number, condition, and the mucus with which they may be covered, and to the fize of the lungs, depends the reafon why all men cannot inhale and abforb the fame quantity of eledlric matter N 1 from one and the fame air. “ 5. As fufficient obfervations on this new fubject have not yet been made, it is difficult to determine what ufe this fub- Itance ferves in animal bodies, and what fundtions depend upon it. Is the tone and irritability of the fibres of the body principally fupported by it ? Do the caufes of ani- mal hefit proceed from it ? The animal eledlricity, which is very confpicuous in cats, horfes, and alfo in men, by the numerous fparks feen to ifiue from their bodies, probably proceeds289 {ESOPHAGUS. Chap. II. proceed from the ele&ricity abforbed by the lungs from the air. This is perhaps the caufe of the greater danger to which fome men are liable of being ftruck with thunder than others. The fpontaneous burning of fome natural bodies, is undoubtedly to be afcribed to the fame caufe j and the alacrity and vigour of fome temperaments are wonderfully in- creafed by the prefence of this fluid. May this fubftance be joined with the acidum pingue and inflammable principle *? Some of the fecondary ufes of relpiration are to comprefs the abdominal vifcera, fo that the ftomach, inteftines, gall- bladder, receptacle of the chyle, bladder, inteftinum redtum, and the womb itfelf, may difcharge their contents; that the aliments may be triturated or diflolved, and the blood urged through the fluggilh veflels of the liver, fpleen, and mcfente- ry. Refpiration excites a kind of flux and reflux in the blood, fo that it is alternately preffed back towards the extremities of the veins, and a little after is propelled towards the heart by an accelerated velocity. Moreover, infpiration ferves to con- vey odours along with the air to the organ of fmeiling ; and is alfo the principal means by which a new born infant is enabled to perform the operation of lucking. § II. Oefopbagus. Situation and figure. The oefophagus is a canal partly muf- cular and partly membranous j which commences at the in- ferior part of the pharynx, and defcends along the neck and back part of the thorax, into the abdomen. While it lies in the neck, it is placed between the middle and left part of the cervical vertebrae behind the left part of the trachea j in the thorax it is fltuated between the layers of the pofterior medi- aftinum, and defcends to the fourth or fifth vertebra of the Vol. II. O o back, * This doiflrine of Dr Wrifberg’s is extremely hypothetical.2po Part VI. CESOPHAGU 3. back, in the fame direction which it had above: There it in- cli' -s a little from left to right, till it reaches the ninth rib, to 1;: ik • vrjy for the aorta •, aftervv rds it inclines from right ' > 'ind from behind forward, to get through the dia- ■nvgm .to the upper orifice of the flomach. Structure and coats It is made up of feveral coats, almoft in ibe fame manner as the flomach, of which it is the con- tinuation. The firft coat, while in the thorax, is formed only by the duplicature of the poflerior part of the mediaftinum, and is wanting above the thorax and in the neck, where the outer coat of the oelophagus is only a continuation of the cel- lular fubftance belonging to the neighbouring parts. The fecond coat is mufcular, being made up of feveral flrara of flelhy fibres. l he outei moff are moflly longitudi- nal, and their quantity is much greater than that on the reft of the alimentary can .l; but they a^c not all continued from one end of the oefophagus to the other. The following ftrata are obliquely tranfverfe, and the mnermofi; are turned a little obliquely the contrary way. 1 hey crofs each other irregu- larly in many places, but are neither fpiral nor annular. The third is termed the nervous coat, and is like that of the flomach and inteflines. It is differently folded or plait- ed, according to its length, being much wider than the muf- cular coat i and it is furrounded by a whitifh, foft, fine fila- mentary fubftance, like a kind of cotton, which, when lleep- cd in water, fwells and grows thicker. The fourth or innermoft coat relembles, in fome meafure, that of the inteflines; except that, inllead of the villi, it has fmall and very lliort papillae. It is folded lengthwife like the third coat ; fo that the oefiqhagus, when cut acrol's, repre- fents one tube within another. I hrough the pores of this coat a vifcid lymph is continually difcharged. The upper end of the oelophagus is fuppiied with arteries from the laryngeae inferiores 5 farther down it has branches fromDUCTUS THORACTCUS. Chap. n. DUCTUS THORACTCUS. *9i from thofe which fupply the pericardium ; the reft of it is fupplied by the arteriae bronchiales. The veins go into the fupcrior Iaryngeals, to the top of the ft/perior vena cava, to the vena azygos and bronchial veins. The nerves are chiefly from the eighth pair; but fame; fmall branches come from the great fympathetics. § 12. Du Bus Thoracicus. .« . . . '■ { - i 1 * - ' • • i : This du<ft, and its fituation in the thorax, is defc.ribed in Volume Third, along with the lymphatic fyftem, nt ■ •**< « • th 'if h - 11 ‘iJtlL .k*Ai . U» JSl* i'P u y •»» i n*\am) (jr>nptia6 j~a \ ^ * i V- ) yCi v > . 1G ^ i II (If ir.li * tiff O £ *>, '!•> c7/ *> If* l/fl CHAP.Part VI* Or THE ABDOMEN. « CHAP. nr. Of the Abdomen f ^ PHE w^°^e ^ore Par^ °f the abdomen forms an oblong convexity like an oval vault, more or lefs prominent 5n the natural Bate, in proportion to the quantity of fat upon jt, and the food contained in it, or to the different degrees of pregnancy in women. The hypogaftric and umbilical regions are more fubjefl: to thefe varieties than the epigaftric. On the fides, between the hypochondria and os ilium, the abdomen is generally a little contracted; and back- ward, about the middle of the regio lumbaris, it is gently depreffed, forming a kind of tranlverfc cavity, anfwenng to the natural incurvation of the lumbar portion of the fpina dorfi. This anterior convexity, and pofterior cavity, change as we £t, ftand, kneel, lie at our full length, or with the thighs bent; and thefe variations depend on the particular fituation of the offa innominata in thefe different poBures. In Banding, the convexity of the belly, and cavity of the loins, are more confiderable than in moB other fituations; for then the lower extremity of the os facrum is turned very far back, and confequently the os pubis very much down. In this fituation of the pelvis, the inteftines fall naturally for. ward, and thus increafe the convexity of the abdomen; and, as the vertebrae of the loins are very much bent at the fame time, the cavity in that place muB likewife be very confider- able. InChap- HI. O? the ABDOMEN. a93 In kneeling, the ofia pubis are ftill lower than when we Band : And this not only increafes the hollow of the loins, and throws the abdomen and its vifcera more outward or forward, but alio in fome meafure drains the abdominal rnufcles ; which is fo uneafy to fome perfons, as to caufe faint- ing. This depreflion of the os pubis in kneeling depends partly on the tendon ot the two mufcuti re£ti anteriores ; the lower tendons of which are, in this fituation, drawn with violence under the condyloid pulley of the os femoris. \\ hen we fit in the common manner, that is, with the thighs ftretched out in a plane parallel to that of the feat, the convexity of the belly and hollow of the loins diminifh. For the pelvis being in this fituation fupported on the tit- bercula ifehii, and thefe tubercles being very near the fore- part of the pelvis, the trunk of the body preffing on the os Jfacrum mud lower the pelvis behind, and raife it before. When we lie upon the back at full length, and with the thighs extended, the belly is lefs convex, but more ftretched and hard ; whereas, when the thighs are bent, it is foft.and lax. In this fituation, the re^io lumbaris is almoft flatj and very little deprefied. When we lie on the back, and raile the head, or endea- vour to raife it, we feel a tenfion in the fore-part of the ab- domen, which increafes in proportion to the force we ule in railing the head. Integuments of the abdomen. The fkin on the anterior por- tion ot the abdomen is thinner and more compatft than the pofterior, and it has likewife the peculiar property of being capable of receiving a confiderable increafe in breadth, and fometin esin a very extraordinary manner, without loling any of its thicknefs, in proportion to what it gains in breadth. The cells of the membrana adipofa, which covers the con- vex part of the abdomen, are difpofed in a very regular man- ner,Part VI. 294 Of the ABDOMEN. ner, as we difcover by differing the fkin from the mufcles ; for then there appears on the inner furface of the membrana adipofa a longitudinal line like a kind of raphe, produced by the meeting of the cellular rows, which form angles fuccef- fively, one above another, oppofite to the linea alba of the abdomen. The cells in thefe rows are more oblong than the reft, and in a manner oval, or like a grain of wheat. Cavity of the abdomen. The appendix enfiformis of the fternum, the cartilaginous portions of the laft pair of true ribs, thofe of the firft four pairs of falfe ribs, all the fifth pair, the five lumbar vertebrae, the ofla innominata, the os facrum, and os coccygis, form the bony fides of the cavity of the ab- domen. The diaphragm, the mufculi abdominis, the quadrati lumborum, pfoai, iliaci, the mufcles of the coccyx, and of the intefmum reElum, form the chief part of the furface of this cavity ; and its whole inner furface is lined by a membranous expanfion, termed peritonaeum, all thefe parts being covered by the inte- guments already mentioned. As additional or auxiliary parts, we might likewife add iome portions of the facro lumbares, longiffimi dorli, vertebrales, glutaei, &c. The cavity of the abdomen is of an irregularly oval figure, but ft ill fymmetrical. On the forefide it is uniformly arched ©r oval, and its greateft capacity is even with the naval and neareft part of the hypogaftrium. On the upper fide it is bounded by a portion of a vault, very much inclined. On the back-fide it is in a manner divided into two cavities by the jetting out of the vertebrae of the loins. On the lower fide it contrafts gradually all the way to what I call the little edge of the pelvis ; and from thence expands again a little as far as the os coccygis, and tubercles of the ifehium, terminat- ing in the void fpace between thefe three parts.*95 PERITONEUM. Chap. nr. § I. Peritonaeum. Having carefully removed the mufcles of the abdomen, the firft thing we difcover is a very confiderable membranous covering, which adheres immediately to the inner furface of the mufculi tranfverfi, and of all the other parts of this ca- vity, and involves and inverts all the vifcera, as in a kind of bag. This membrane is named peritonaeum, from a Greek word, which Cgnifies to be fpread around. lhe peritonaeum, in general, is a membrane of a clofe texture, and yet very limber, and capable of a very great ex- tenfion ; after which it can recover itlelf, and be contracted ' to its ordinary fize, as we fee in pregnancy, droprtes, corpu- lency, and repletion. It may be looked upon as a Angle membrane, although it has been delcribed by many anatomifts as a duplicature of two diftinft membranous laminae. But, properly (peaking, the internal portion alone deferves the name of a membranous lamina, as being the main body of the peritonaeum. The external portion may properly enough be termed the cellular fuljlance of the peritonaeum. The inner fubftance of the peritonaeum is very fmooth and polilhed on that fide which is turned to the cavity and vifcera of the abdomen, and continually moiftened by a ferous fluid difeharged through almoft imperceptible pores. . Thefe pores may be feen by fpreading a portion of the pe- ritonaeum on the end of the finger, and then pulling it very tight on all (ides ; for then the pores are dilated, and final! drops may be oblerved to run from them, even without a microfcope. The fources of this fluid are chiefly from the exhalent vefl- fels. The whitifli corpufcles found in difeafed fubjefts are no %Part YE $96 PERITONAEUM, no proof of the glands, which fome anatomifts place there in the natural ftate. The cellular fubftance, or external portion of the perito- naeum, adlieres very clofely to the parts which form the in- fides of the cavity of the abdomen ; and it is not every where of an equal thicknefs. In fome places it is in a very fmall quantity, and fcarcely any appears at the tendinous or aponeurotic portions of the mufculi tranfverfi, and on the lower fide of the diaphragm. In all other places it is thicker, and forms cells expanded into very fine laminae, which, in difeafed fubjects, becomes fometimes fo broad and thick, as to refemble fo many diflindt membranes* In fome places, this fubftance is every way like a membra- na adipofa, being filled with fat, as round the kidneys, and along the flefliy portions of the tranfverfe mufcles, to which it adheres. It entirely furrounds fome parts, as the bladder, ureters, kidneys, fpermatic veflels, See. and it is in thefe places improperly termed the duplicaturt of the peritonaeum. Befides thefe differences in thicknefs, the cellular fubftance has feveral elongations, which have been called productions of the peritonaeum. Two of thefe productions accompany and invert: the fpermatic ropes in males, and the vafcular ropes, commonly called the round ligaments, in women. Two other pals under the ligamentum Fallopii, with the crural veflels, which they involve \ and they are gradually loft: in their courfe downward. To thefe four productions of the cellular fubftance of the peritonaeum, we may add a fifth, which is fpread on the neck of the bladder; and perhaps a fixth, which accompa- nies the inteftinuin reCtum. All thefe elongations pafs out of the cavity of the abdomen, and may be termed external, to diftinguifh them from others that remain in the abdomen, and are called internalof which hereafter. TheChap. III. *91 PERITONEUM. The great blood veffels, that is, the aorta and vena cava, are likewife. involved in this cellular fubftance of the perito- naeum. In a word, it involves immediately and feparately, all the parts and organs which are commonly laid to lie in the duplicature of the peritonaeum. The true lamina, or membranous portion of the perito- naeum, is conne&ed by the intervention of the cellular fub- ftance to the inner furface, of the cavity of the abdomen ; but it does not naturally accompany the external elongations of that fubftance. it only covers the origin or balls of thefe productions, without any alteration in its own lurface at thefe places. It has, neverthelefs, productions of its own ; but they are very different from thofe of the cellular fubftance ; .for they run from without inward, that is, they advance from the convex fide of the great bag of the peritonaeum into the ca- vity of that bag, fome more, fome lefi, and alio in different manners, as if the fides of a large ball or bladder were thruft inward into the cavity of the ball or bladder. Of thefe internal elongations of the peritonaeum, fome are limply folded like a duplicature ; others are expanded like inverted bags, or lacculi, to contain fome vifeus ; others begin by a fimple duplicature, and are afterwards expanded into a cavity which contains fome organ ; others are alternately ex- tended in the form of fimple duplicatures and of cavities; and, laftly, others form only a finall eminence on the inner furface of the great cavity of the peritonaeum. Under the firft fpecies of thele productions, we may bring the membranous ligaments of the abdomen, fuch as thofe of the liver, colon, &c. We fee the fecond fptcies in the external membrane of the liver; the third in the mefentry ; the fourth in the mefocolon; and the fifth at the kidneys and ureters. Vol. II. P p BefidesPart VI. PERITONEUM. 2 98 Befides the external productions of the cellular fuftance of the peritonaeum, it has the fame number of internal elonga- tions with the true lamina, which lie between all the dupli- catures, and line the inlides of all the cavities, or that fide next the vilcera contained in them. The veflels and nerves of the peritonaeum are from thofo that fupply the neighbouring parrs. The arteries come from the mammariae internae, the interCortales inferiores, the lum- bares, the «rteriae facrae, the ilio lumbares, the epigaftrieae, the fimall anterior iliacs. the inferior diaphragmatics, and from the veflels which fupply the abdominal vilcera. The veins correfponding with thefe arteries have the fame courfe and bear the fame names. The nerves of this membrane are few in number, and ftnall : They come from the great inter- coftals, from the lumbars and facrals. The ufes of the peritonaeum, in general, feem to be very evident from the delcription which has been given of it : The chief of thefe ufes are, to line the cavity of the abdo- men, to invert the vifeera contained in that cavity as in a common bag, to fupply them with particular coats, and to form productions, ligaments, connections, folds, vaginae, ■as we fhall fee hereafter. The fine fluid which tranfudes through the whole internal furface of the peritonaeum prevents the inconveniencies which might aril'e from the continual frictions and motions to which the vifeera of the abdomen are expofed, either naturally or by external impulfes. We muft here obferve, that it is the common curtom to demonftrate four ligamentary ropes, termed the umbilical vef- fchy before the peritonaeum is opened, becaufe they adhere to the umbilicus; three of them are really veflels in the foe- tus, viz. two umbilical arteries and one vein. We are in a manner obliged to fubmit to this curtom in public anatomical demon ftrations, where we have but one fubjeft for the whole;VENTRICULUS. Chap. III. 2 99 whole ; but as we are here under no fuch neceffity ; we refer the defeription of thefe ligaments to other more proper places of this work. The venal ligament lhall be defenbed in the hiftory of the liver; and the two arterial ligaments, together with the urachus, which is the fourth, in the hiftory of the bladder. It is fufEcient to obferve here in general, that three of thefe umbilical ropes or ligaments are involved feparately, and fuftained by a production or duplicature, which the pe- ritonaeum fends into the cavity of the abdomen in form of a falx. § 2. Ventricuhs, Situation and figure ofi the fiomach. The ftomach is a great bag or refervoir, fituated partly in the left hypochondnuin, and partly in the epigaftrium. The figure of the fiomach is like that of a bag of a bag- pipe-, that is, it is oblong, incurvated, large, and capacious, at one end, and fmall and contracted at the other. We fee this figure moft evidently when the fiomach is moderately filled with air, or with any other fluid. The curvature of the ftomach gives us occafion to diftin- guiflh two arches in it; one large, which runs along the greateft convexity ; and one fmall, diretftly oppofite to the former. Thefe arches are named the great and fmall curva- tures of the ftomach ; and by the fides of the fiomach, we underftand the two lateral portions which lie between the two arches. The fiomach has two extremities, one large and one fmall. It has two openings, called the orifices of the fiomach ; one be- tween the great extremity and the favail curvature, the other at the end of the fmall or contracted extremity. The firft opening3co VENTRICULUS. Part VI. opening is a continuation of the oefophagus; the other joins the intellinal canal, and is called by the name of pylorus The fiomach is not firuated in the left hypochondrium and epigaftric region, in the manner reprefented in mod of the figures It lies tranfverfely, obliquely, and almoll late- rally; in fuch a manner as that the great extremity, and the orifice next it, are on the left fide; and the fmall extremity, with its orifice, or the pylorus, on the right fide, and lower and more inclined than the former : Therefore we ought, with the antient anatomifis, to call one of thefe orifices fupe- rior, the other inferior. The great extremity of the fiomach is in the left hypo- ehondrium, and for the moft part immediately under the diaphragm: Yet the fuperior orifice is not in the left hypo- chondrium, but almofl oppofite to, and very near the middle of, the bodies of the lowed vertebrae of the back. The fmall extremity of the fiomach does not reach to the right hypochondnum It bends obliquely backwards toward the upper orifice; fo that the pylorus lies about two fingers breadth from the body of the vertebrae immediately under the fmall portion of the liver ; and conlequently lower down, and more forward, than the other orifice by almoll the fame dillance. This extremity of the fiomach has fometimes a particular dilatation on the fide next the great curvature. According to this natural firuation, the ftomach, efpecially when full, is fituated with its great curvature forward and a little downward, and its fmall curvature backward and a little upward. One of the lateral convex fides is turned upward, the other downward ; and not forward and backward, as they appear in dead bodies, where the inteflines do not fupport them in their natural fituation. If we divide the fiomach along the two curvatures into two equal parts, we fliall fee that the two orfices do not both adhere IVENTRICULU9. Chap. III. goi adhere to the fame half of this divilion, as we would be apt to imagine according to the common notion ; but that the diaphragmatic orifice is entirely in the upper halt, and the inteltnial orifice in the lower. 1 hcreiore the body of the ftomach is fo far from lying in the lame plane with the befophagus, as it is commonly repre- fented in ligures drawn from a tlomach taken out of the bo- dy, and laid upon a table, that it forms an angle or fold im- mediately at the pafiage of the oeloph igus, through the imall mulcle of the diaphragm ; and it is on account of this angle that the luperior orifice is turned backward. Structure oj the ftomach. 1 he itomach is compofed of fe- veral parts * the cruel of which are the different ltrata which form its fubliance, to which anatomifts give the name of tunicae or coats. Thefe coats are commonly reckoned to be four in number ; the outer or common, the flelhy or mulcu- lar, the nervous or aponeurotic, and the viiious or inner coat; and thev are afterwards JuhdiVided leveral ways. The fir ft or outermoft coat is dimply membranous, being one of the internal productions of the peritonaeum, ihis ap- pears evidently at the connection of the luperior orifice with the diaphragm, where the external tnembiane of the ftomach is really continuous with the membrane which lines the infe- rior furface of the diaphragm ; and it is from this that it has been named the common coat. The fecond or mul'cular coat is made up of feveral planes of fibres, which may all be reduced to two ; one external, the other internal. The external coat is longitudinal, though, in different refpeCts, following nearly the direction of the curva- tures and convexities of the ftomach; and the internal plane is tranfverlely circular. The fibres of the external plane run Hunting in feveral places ; and are interfered bf ftnall oblique whitifli lines, -which feem to be in fome meafure tendinous. This plane is ftrengthensdVENTRICULUS. Part VI. goa firengthened by a particular fafciculus which runs along the fmall curvature, its fibres appearing to be tefs oblique than thole of the great plane. The fibres of the inner or circular plane of this mufcular coat are ftronger than thofe of the outer plane. They are rather fegments which unite at different diftances, than entire circles; and they are likewife interfered by great numbers of (mall white lines, in fome meafure tendinous, and very ob- lique, which all together reprefent a kind of net-work, the areolae or melhes of which are very narrow. As thefe circles or fegments advance on the great extre- mity of the fiomach, they diminifh gradually, and form a kind of mufcular vortex; the centre of which is in the mid- dle of that extremity. Between the outer and inner planes, round the fuperior orifice, there are two diftinft planes about the breadth of a finger, and very oblique, which lurround this orifice in op- pofite dire&ions, and interfefl each other where they meet on the two lateral fides. Along the middle of each lateral fide of the fmall extre- mity, there runs a tendinous or ligamentary flat portion, above a quarter of an inch in breadth, which terminates in the pylorus. Thefe two portions lie between the common and mufcular coats, and adhere very ftrongly to the firft. Between the two fame coats, there is a cellular lubflance which adheres very clofely to the external coat, and mfinu- ates itfelf between the fielhy fibres of the fecond, all the way to the third, as may be perceived by blowing it up. Some make it a diftinft goat, and call it tunica cellulofa ; but it is no more than the cellular portion of the membranous coat;, - like the cellular portion of the peritonaeum. The third coat, commonly called tunica nervofa, but pro- perly tunica cellulofa, is compofed of capillary veffels and nerves, with a very large proportion of cellular fubftance. OaVENTRICULUS. z°i Chap. III. On t e concave fide, it feems to be of a very loofe fpongy or filamentary texture, refembling fine cotton, as may be fecn by macerating it a little in clear water, which fwells it confider- ably in a very fliort fpace of time. It is fupported by a kind of ground-work of a very fine ligamentary or aponeurotic filaments which interfeift each other obliquely, much in the fame manner as the third coat of the inteftines ; of which hereafter ; and it adheres to the convex fide of the villous coat. The fourth coat of the ftomach has been termed by Fallow piu tunica villofa, becaule, when it fwims in clear water, fomething is feen in it like the pile of velvet. The antients called it tunica futigofa; and perhaps this name agrees beft with its true ftruifture. Thefe two coats are of a larger extent than the two for- mer, and they join in forming large rugae on the concave furface of the ftomach ; the greateft part of which is tranf- verfe, though irregular and waving. There are likewife fome longitudinal ones which interle£t the others-, but at the py- lorus they all become longitudinal, and terminate there. At the fuperior orifice of the ftomach, thefe rugae are in a manner radiated, and ftem to be a continuation of the pli- cae or folds of the oefophagus; only they are thicker; and where thele rugae and plicae meet, they form a fort of crown, which diftinguilhes the fuperior orifice of the ftomach from the inferior extremity of the oefophagus. In the interftices of thefe rugae there is often found a fort of {limy mucus, with which the whole cavity of the ftomach feems likewife to he moiftened This mucus, which is term- ed fuccus gajlricus or Jlomachicus, is much more fluid in living than in dead booies, and ha^ been fuppofed by Winfl >w, Le- ber, &.c to be fupplied by fmall glands fituated in the fub- ftance of the ftomach. But Morgagni and Haller have fel- dom feen fuch an appearance; and Sabatier oblerves, that, wheB304 VENT&ICULUS. Part VI. when fuch an appearance is met with, it may be confidered as the effcdt of difeafe, and that nothing is more doubtful than the exigence of glands in this place. On the inner furface of the fmall extremity of the Ito- mach, at the place where it ends in the inteftinal canal, we oblcrve a broad, thin, circulir border, with a roundifh hole in the middle. This hole is the inferior orifice of the fto- mach, called by the Greeks pylorus, which fignifies a porter. This border is a fold or duplicature of the two inner coats of the flomach, the nervofa and villola ; and it is formed in part by a fafciculus of flelhy fibres fixed in the duplicature of the tunica nervofa, and diftinguifhed not only from the other flelhy fibres of the extremity of the flomach, but alfo from thofc of the inteftines, by a thin, whitifh circle, which appears even through the external or common coat, round the union of the flomach and inteftines. The figure of the pylorus is that of a ring tranfverfcly flat- ted ; the inner edge of which, or that next the centre, is turned obliquely toward the inteftines. This inner edge runs ,naturally more or leis into little plaits or gathers, like the mouth of a purfe almoft (hut ; all which particulars are very different from what figures and dried preparations would make us believe. It is therefore a kind of fphindler, which can contract the inferior orifice of the flomach, but feems not capable of fhutting it quite clofe. Arteries of the Jlomach. The principal arteries of the fto- tnach are the coronaria finiftra, which goes firft to the car- dia, and from this runs along the fmall curvature ; corona- l ria dextra, which runs from the arteria hepatica to the right, end of the fmall curvature, and joins the coronaria finiftra ; gaftro-epiploica dextra, which arifes from the arteria hepa- tica, and runs along the great curvature ; arteria gaftro-epi- ploica firiftra and vafa brevia, which ariie from the arteria fpleuica, and run along the left end of the great curvature. ThefeVol. II. Q^q ticular Chap. III. . VENTRICULUS. 30$ Thefe two arterial arches fend a great number of branches towards each other on both fides of the ftomach ; and thefe branches are gradually ramified in different dire&i ns, by very different divifions and lub divifions ; the greateft part of which communicate with thole from the other artery. From thefe frequent ramifications and communications of the arterial arches of the ftomach, two d fferent reticular tex- tures arife ; one, which is the largeft, lies between the com- mon and mufcular coats in the cellular fubftances found there; the other, which is very fine, lies on the furface of the tunica nervofa. This latter is a production of the firft, being formed by means of a great number of very Ihort rami, which go out from the other, and pafs through the f nail in- terfaces between the fibres of the mufcular coat By artificial injections we can lhew~a third extremely fine reticular texture of capillary veffels, which run between the glandular bodies and papillae of the tunica villola. Thele do not feem, in their natural ftate. to be purely blood veffds, as inflammations and injections may incline us to think. The arteries of the flomach come originally from the cae- liaca, by means of the hepatica, fplenica, and coronaria. The pylorica and mefenterica luperior likewife contribute to them by communications, more or lefs in.mediate. They commu- nicate alfo with the mammariae internae, and diaphragmati- cae, and, by means of the epigartrica finftra, with the mefen- terica inferior. Veins of the Jlomach. The veins of the ftomach are ramifi- cations of the vena portae in general ; and in particular of the meferaica major, fplenica, and melenrerica interior ; the diftribution of which may be leen in the delcri jiion of the veins. They accompany the arteries more or lefs, and form nearly the fame kinds of arches and feticulat tex'ures ; with this difference, that they are proponionady greater, their re-306 VEN TRI CULUS. Part VI* ticular areolae larger, and their external communications more frequent. Nerves of the Jlotnach. Between the common and mufculai* coats of the ftomach, we find a great number of nerves of dif- ferent fizes. Many of them accompany each other, in form of a broad flat fafciculus, along the fmall curvature of the fto- mach from the iuperior to the inferior orifice. The reft are fpread in different directions, on the fides, extremities, and great curvature, forming at different diftances a kind of reti- cular plexus, from which a great number of filaments are de- tached to the inner coats. They arile chiefly from the nervi fvmpathetici medii, of eighth pair, by means of the plexus ccronarius ftomachicus formed round the fuperior orifice of the ftomach, by the ex- panfion of the extremities of two large ropes, which run down upon the oefophagus, by the name of nervi Jlomachici. The great fympathetic nerve, commonly called interccJhtUsy con- tributes likewif'e to them, by communicating filaments, which the plexus ftomachicus receives from the femilunar ganglions of the plexus bepaticus, and particularly from the plexus fple- niefas. See Walter’s beautiful and accurate Tables of the Nerves, of the Thorax, and Abdomen. Ufes of the Jitmaeh. The ftomach receives in general what- ever the mouth and tongue feed thither through the canal of the oefophagus : But its particular ufe is to receive the ali- ments ; to contain them for a longer dr fhorter time, in pro- portion as they are more folid or fluid ; and to digeff t^iem, that is, to put them in a condition to be turned into that nu- tritious fluid called chyle. This operation, which goes by the general name of digef- tion, and by which chylification begins, is performed partly by the fuccus gaftricus, which flows continually from the tu- nica villofa, and partly by the continual contraction and re- laxation of the mufcular coat. Thefe motions in men arc butChap. III. VENTRICULUS. 3®7 but very weak, and nowife fufficient for digeftion, without the affillance of the alternate motions of the diaphragm and mufcles of the abdomen. The pylorus, or flefliy circle of the inferior orifice of the ftomach, ferves to retain the aliments in it till they have ac- quired a luflicient degree of fluidity to pals ealily through that opening. But by a particular irritation or the mulcular coat of the ltomach, and Itill more by a violent contraction of the diaphragm and mulcles of the abJomen, the contents of the ltomach may be very foon forced towards the linall extremity, a. d pulhed through the pylorus. The gentle and alternate motions of the orbicular fibres of the mulcular coat may affift in fending through the pylorus, in the natural way, the aliment that is lufficiently digefled. This was called the perijlaltic or vermicular motion. by thole who believed that it is fucccflively reiterated, like that of earth-worms when they creep. Trituration might be a proper enough term for this opera- tion, provided it be made to figrufy only a gentle agitation or aiTion of the fie fhy fibres in a fubftance continually moiliened by the gaftric liquor, and not a violent grinding ot a dry fiub- flance. The fituation of the ftomach, which is nearly tranf/erfe, is iikewife of ufe in making the aliment remain long enough in that cavity; and may lerve to make the length of this, flay, in fome meafure, arbitrary, by means of the different pollures of the body ; lor, when we lie on the left fide, the aliment nuifl: remain longer than when we lie on the right, &c. The obliquity of the ftomach may ferve to clear up a diffi- culty that vrry much torments thole who believe that both orifices of the ftomach lie on the fame level ; which is, how any heavy fubltance, once got into the ftomach, can ever, rife ?gain to this level, to p?.fs into the intcftincs. \ f » b3«8 Part VI. INTESTINES. § 3. The intefines in general. 4 Situation, fixe* and divifon of the inti fines. Between the pylorus and the very lowcft part of the abdomen lies a long canal, bent in a great many different directions by numerous convolutions or turnings, calhd the intf ines. This canal, thus folded and turned, forms a confiderabls bulk, which fills the greateft part of the cavity of the abdo- men ; and it i- connected through the whole extent to mem- branous productions or continuations of the peritonaeum, principally to thofe called the mefentery and mefocolon; of •which hereafter. ' The incurvations of the inteflinal canal form two arches; a fmall one, by which it is connected to the mefentery and mefocolon ; and a great one on the oppolhe fide, which lies loofe. The whole canal is generally about fix or leven times as long as the fubjeCt. The inteflinal canal is neither of an equal fize nor thick- nefs through its whole length \ from whence anatomifts have taken occafion to confiJer its different portions as fo many particular inteftines, and to divide them all into fmall and great. And as they ftill found fome differences in each clafs taken altogether, they divided each into three portions, which they diftinguilhed by particular names. In the fmall inteftines, the three portions arc named duodenum jejunum, and ileum ; and in the great inteftine'., caecum, colon, and rectum. StruHure of the inteflines. The inteftines in general are compoled of feveral coats, much in the lame manner with the llomach The firft and ourermoft is a continuation of the mefentery, or of fome other elongation or duplicature of the peritonaeum. ThisINTESTINES. 3®9 Chap. III. The This is commonly termed the common cent>• and it has a cellular fubllance on its inner furface, like that of the fto- jnach, which M. Ruylch thought fit to call a diftindt coat by the name of tunica cellulofa. The iccond coat of the inteftines is flelliy or mufcular? and made up of two planes; one external, the other internal. The external plane is very thin, and its fibres longitudinal j the internal plane is thicker, and its fibres run tranfverfely round the circumference of the inteftinal cylinder. It would appear that thefe fibres are neither fpiral, nor arc they formed of pe: fe£t circles or of rings ; but they deem rather to be fegments of circles, dilpoled much in the fame manner as in the flomach, and thus lurrounding entirely the inter- nal canal. Thefe two planes adhere clofely together, and are fepa- rated with great difficulty. They adhere likewife to the common coat by the intervention of the cellular fubftance, which is in greater quantities on the fide next the mefentery than on the other. The third coat is called nervofa, and is fomething like that of the flomach. It has a particular plane, which ferves as a balls to fullain it, made up of very fine ftrong, oblique fibres, which feem to be of the ligamentary or tendinous kind. To fee this plane diftinflly, a portion of the inteftines mud be inflated, the common coat removed, and the flelliy fibres feraped off. This coat fuftains two reticular fubftances, which are both vafcular, one arterial, the other venal, accompanied by a great number of nervous filaments. Thefe veffels and nerves are produdlions of the mefenteric veffels and nerves •, and, as they furround the whole canal of the inteftines, fome anatomifts have formed them into a diftinft coat, by the name of tunica •va/culofa.INTESTINUM DUODENUM. Part VL 31® The nervous coar fends ff from i;s inne^ furface a great number of portions or fepta, more or lets circular, which con- tribute to the formation of what are called vulvulat conniven- tes ; <f which hereafter. It likcwife lecmc to luffain (everal differe .t glandular bodies, which we dilcover in the cavity of the mrcltii.es. The fourth or innermoft coat is very foft, and is named tunica villo/j. It has the fame extent with the third coat, which lupports it ; and it lines all the fepta of that third coat ; but it is not uniform through the whole canal, as we fhali fhew in the particular defcription. It is now generally believed that the fourth coat is a con- tinuation of that in the ftomach, and, of confecpience, from the epidermis. h.tjlina tenuia. The finall inteftines form one continued uniform canal ; and, although three portions of it have three different names, yet we have no fuffh lent marks whereby to difiinguilh them, to fix the precife extent or length of each portion, or to fettle its juff limits. The firft and fmallcff portion of the whole canal is called jluodtnum ; the fecond, which is much longer, jejunum ; and the third, which is ftill longer than the fecond, ileum. § 4. IntcJUnum Duodenum. •The firff portion of the fmall intenflines was called duo- denum, from the length aicribed to it by the antients, viz. the breadth of twelve fingers ; and the moderns need not cavil much about this length, if it is meafured with the ends of the fingers of the fubjech This inteffine having arifen from the pylorus, is immedi- ately bent a little backward and obliquely downward; then it bends a fecond time toward the right kidney, to which it is a little connected ; and from thence pafies before the renal arteryThe Chap. III. INrESTINUM DUODENUM. 3»t artery and vein, afcending infenfibly from right to left, till it gets before the aorta, and laft vertebrae ot the back. It con- tinues its courfe obliquely forward by a gentle turn, which' may be reckoned a third incurvation, and alfo the extremity of the duodenum. Through this whole courfe the duodenum is firmly bound down by the folds of the peritonaeum, elpecially by a tranf- verfe duplicature which gives origin to the melocolon. The two lamina of this duplicature being at firft feparate, and foon afterward uniting, muft leave a triangular fpace between them, which is lined with a cellular fubftance. It is in this fpace that the duodenum adheres, by means of the cellular fubftance, to the parts already named ; and the inteftme is contained therein, as in a cafe ; fo that, without difie£tion, we can fee nothing but its two extremities ; and even thefe are hid by the colon, and by {he firft convolutions of the jejunum. Structure of the duodenum. The firft coat of the duodenum is confequently different from that of the other fmall intef- tines, having this peculiar to it, that it does not inveft the whole circumference of the inteftine ; becaufe, through the greateft part of the length, it lies in the triangular fpace al- ready mentioned; and, for the lame reafon, there is a greater quantity of cellular fubftance b longs to the outer coat of the duodenum than to that of the other inteftines. The mufcular coat of the duodenum is thicker than in the jejunum and ileum. The tunica nervofa ancl villofa form conjointly, on the in- fides of this inteftine, a great number of fmall duplicatures, which advance into the cavity more or lefs dire&ly, like por- tions of circular planes, with one edge fixed to the imeftine, and the other loofe. Ihefe are what anatomifts call valvulae conniveutes.M I 312 INTESTINUM DUODENUM. Part Vt i The loofe or floating edge of thefe valves is formed into Email gathers or waves in the natural ftate. 1 he whole fur- face of thefe duplicatures or valves is villous, as well as that of the inteftines between them. The villi of this inteftine are thicker than in the ftomachj but the texture of them in man is not like hairs, as they are commonly reprefented in figures, but rather like that of a fungous granulated fubftance, compofed of an infinite num- ber of very fine papillae of different figures j in which we fee, through a microlcope, a multitude of deprcffed points or pores, by which their whole furface fee ms to be pierced. By the fame help we oblerve, on different places of the inner lurface of this inteftine, ieveral round villous tubercles, fifing like fmall verrucae at different diftances from each other. This fubftance fuftains an infinite number of capillary veffels of different kinds j for, befides the blood-veffels, we jbmetimes obferve a great number of white filaments which run through it, and end at its inner furface like fo many capillary roots of the veffels called venae lafleae. When the villous fubftance is examined in the microfcope, befides the blood-veffels, numerous follicles are obferved lodged in cellular fubftance. Thefe have been confidered as the origin of the ladeal veffels, and have been called ampullulae of Lei- terkuhn, bccaufe he firff difcovered them. The fungous fubftance which bind thefe capillary filaments together, and furrounds them, is very tender; and the capil- lary extremities of the fmall blood-veffels diftributed through it, feem to be turned toward the pores of the papillae. Through thefe pores a mucouc fluid, more or lefs tranfparent, is difcharged, which continually moiftens the cavity of the inteftine. Glands of the duodenum. The internal furface of the duo- denum is furnifhed with a great number of fmall flat glan- dularChap. III. INTESTINUM JEJUNUM. 313 I dular tubercles, named after Brunner, which are nifed on the fides, and deprdTed in the middle by a kind of f-flul 1 j and they are more numerous near the beginning of this in- teftine than any where elfe. About the pylorus they lie as it were in heaps or clufters ; and from thence the diftance between them increafes gradually all the way to the other extremity where they are iingle. Thefe glands, when examined carefully, appear like little bladders, with the orifices turned towards the cavity of the inteftine, and the bodies fixed in the fponty fubftance next the nervous coat. They furnilh a particular fluid, which is often found to be vifcid., Ike biliary orifice of the duodenum. In the inner furface of the duodenum, almoft at the lower part of the fir(1: incurva- tion, and on the fhorteit fide, there is a longitu linal emi- nence, in the point or apex of which lies a particular open- ing, which is the orifice of the dudlus biliarius, within which the duffus pancreaticus likewife opens. This inteftine is commonly the wideft, though the fhort- eft, of the inteftina tenuia/and has been called by fome au- thors ventriculus fuccenturiatus; and is invefted with more cellular fubftance, efpeciaily while within its triangular cale, where it wants the outer coat which tiie others have ; and confequently it is more eafiiy dilatable by the fubtfances which might otherwife (lick within it. § 5. Intejlinum Jejunum. Situation and frze of the jejunum. The jejunum, fo called becaufe it is oftener found empty than the ileum, begins at the laft incurvation < f the duodenum, and is there connec- ted to the beginning of the inefocolcm. From thence it bends downward ‘rom left to right, and obliquely forward, or from the vertebrae, and makes feveral Vol. II. Rr convolutions.314 INTESTINUM JEJUNUM. Part Vj. convolutions, which lie chiefly in the upper part of the um- bilical region. Through all this courfe it is conne&ed to the mefentery, in the manner that fhall be explained hereafter. It is a difficult matter to fix the exaCt bounds between this inteftine and the ileum. The external marks of a redder colour ih the one than the other, though generally common, are not conflant; and the internal marks fixed from the plu- rality of valvulae eonniventes are indeterminate, and often- times appear only from diffcCtion. Thefe two inteftines may be better diftinguifhed by their different fituations, which are very regular ; but, as even this mark is not particular enough, the moft eafy way that I have been able to contrive, and which will, in moft cafes, be found fufficiently exaCt, is to divide both inteftines into five parts, and to allow nearly two-fifths to the jejunum, and three-fifths and a little more to the ileum. Structure of the jejunum. The coats of the jejunum are nearly of the fame ftruclure with thofe of the duodenum, but thinner. The common coat is a continuation of the me- fentery j and the cellular fubftance is in lefis quantity than in the duodenum, and indeed fieems to be altogether wanting along the great curvature cf the convolutions, where the Ion. gitudinal fibres of the mulfcular coat adhere very elofely to the external membrane. This mul'cular coat is not fo ftrong as that of the duode- num. Tne longitudinal plane of fibres is very thin, and al- moft imperceptible, except along the great curvature, oppo- fite to the connection of the mefentery, where we fee, through the membranous coat, a kind of whitifh ligamentary band, about the third part of an inch in breadth, which is continued along the great curvature of all the convolutions of this inteftine, and of the ileum. This ligamentary band is like thofe which we obferve oa the Tides of the fmall extremity of the ftomach. It adheres perfectlyChap. III. INTESTINUM JEJUNUM. 3 perfectly to the membranous coat, and to the longitudinal fibres of the mufcular, which are here more vifible, and ap- pear to be ftronger than in any other place. The tunica ncrvofa, which we choofe rather to call reticu- laris, and its proper cellular or lanuginous fubftance, have nothing peculiar to them more than has been already fait! about the inteftines in general. By blowing artfully into this Jubilance, it may be made to fwell fo much, round the whole cavity of tho inteflines, as to dellroy all the duplicatures or yalvulae conniventes. Thefe valves in this intefline are very broad, very nume- rous, and very near each other. On the fide of the great curvature, their circumference is continuous and uniform ; but next the fmall curvature, there are fcveral breaks in them, the extremities of fome advancing beyond the red, and ter- minating in points. Some of thefe valves go quire round, others only fonte part of the way ; and Jome of them are very final], which go obliquely between two large ones^ forming a kind of communication. The papillae of the tunica villofa are here more railed, loofe, and floating than in the duodenum ; and each of them feerns to be divided into feveral others, by incifures of a very lingular kind. In other refpefts they nearly agree with what was faid in the defeription of the inteflines in general. The obfervations and figures publifhed by M. Helvetius, fir ft phy- fician to the French Queen, in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy, exprefs theie papiliue, and the whole tunica reti- cularis, very jufily. The glandular lacunae of the jejunum are of the fame ftru'ifture with the glandulae Brunneri or duodenaies ; but they are dlfpofed in a different manner. They are partly Angle, at different difiances from each other ; and p.irrlv in feveral clufiers, like flat oblong bunches of grapes, called plexus glanduloft Pcjeri. Thefe are in the largefi quantity nca?316 INTESTINUM ILEUM. Part VI. near the preat cmvarure, and they crofs through feveral val- vulae conmv^ntes at once. / 1 he veffels, nerves, connections, &c. muft be referred till the iiielentery has been defcribed. § 6. Intejlinum Ileum. Situation of the ileum. The convolutions of this inteftinc furrouno thole of the jejunum on the two lateral and lower Tides, and it pafies in a winding couri'e from the left fide, by the hypogaltrium, to the right Tide, where it terminates a lit- tle below the right kidney, joining the intefhna crafl'a, in the manner that we Ihall relate hereafter. The lateral convolu- tions are fupported by the offa ilium, fo called, not from this intefline, but from the region of the abdomen t-ermed ilia. StruElUre of the ileum. 1 he ItruClure of the ileum is much the lame with that of the jejunum ; only the internal dupli- catures, or valvulae conniventes, decreafe gradually both in number an,d fize. Near the extremity of the ileum their direction is changed ; and, inftend of being trardvcrle or cir- cular, they become longitudinal, and terminate in a kind of pylorus, which advances into the cavity of the great intef- tines, as we (hall lee prefently. Wt obferve hkewile in this intefline, as in the jejunum, Tingle or lolitary glands or lacunae, and alfo reticular glands, or glands in clutters ; the laft of which, at the extremity of this intefline, are often of a large extent : But the greareft part of thefe glands appear to be flatter here than in the je- junum. The cellular lubftance of the external coat is in lefs quantities than in the foregoing intellines ■, and the ileum appears commonly more pale, or not lo rrtTts the jejunum. Sometimes, though rarely, we meet with procefles fent off from the jejunum or ileum, and of the fame llrudure with thefe inteftincs. Their form, being fimiiar to that of the finger ofChap. III. INTESTINA CRASSA. 3'7 of a glove, appears to have given them the name of appendices digitales. They are mentioned by different anatomids, and have foinetimes been found to form true herniae- The veflcls, nerves, connexions, See. muft be referred the hidory of the mefentery. $ ~. The bitef in a Crnjfa in general. \ The great iivcftines are one continued canal, divided into three portions, lil^e the fmall ones. This canal begins by a kind of facculus or b .g, which is reckoned the firft of the three portions, and called caecum. The fecond portion, cal- led colon, is the longed of the three, and is diftinguifhed from them by a great number of particular eminences or convexi- ties, which appear on its outer furface through its whole length. The lad portion is named reclum; being more uni- form, narrower, thicker, and much fhorter, than the colon. The druXure of the great intcdines is nearly the fame with that of the ftnall ones, in regard both to the number and dilpolition of their coats. They are fiaorter, and have fewer convolutions, but are much more capacious. The coats in general are dronger, but efpecially the mufcular coat. The villi and mucilaginous glands are different; and there are fe- veral other things relating to them which will come in better in the particular hiflory. Situation andJlrufiure of the caecum. The intedinum cae- cum is only a round fliort broad bag, the bottom of which is turned downward, and the mouth or opening upward. It lies under the right kidney, and is li;d by the lad convolu. tion of the ileum. It has nothing to didinguilh it from the colon, excepting that it is a little wider, is fhut at its under end, and gives origin to the appendicula vermiformis. Appendicula vermiformis. On one fide of the bottom of the caecum lies an appendix, refembiing a fmall inteftine, nearly 9$Part VL INTESTINA CRASSA. I of the fame length with the caecum, but very flender. It is teimed appendicula •uertniformis, from its i up poled refemblance - to an earth-worm. Its cornu on diameter is not above a quarter of an inch. By one extremity it opens laterally and a little obliquely into the bottom of the caecum ; and the other extremity is ciofed, being iometimes greater, lometimes fmaller, than the reft of the appendix It has fome contortions, like thole of a worm when it is touched, from whence comes the epi:hct oi vermuularts or wrmjormis. Its ltructure refemnles nearly thac of the other inteltines. ^ The internal coat of this appendix is foiliculous, like that of the duodenum ; and it is iikcwife reticular, the mellies being the glandular lacunae, which continually difeharge a fluid into its cavity. It has often been diluted whether this appendix, or the large portion, which is, as it were, the head of the colon, ought to be called the caecum; but the general divifion of the inteftines into great and fmall, leaves no room to doubt of its being only an appendix in man, whatever reafon there may be for talking differently with refpedf to brutes and birds. Through the membranous or common coat of the caecum, we fee three white mufcular ligamentous looking bands, which adhere very clofely both to the outer and mufcular coat. One of them is hid by ihe adhelion of the mefocolon ; and all the three divide the caecum longitudinally into three parts more or lefs equal. They all unite on the appendicula vermiformis, and cover its whole outer fide immediately under the common coat. Though they appear exteriorly on the caecum to be ligamen- tary, they are made up anteriorly of flefhy fibres which ac- company and ftrengthen the longitudinal fibres of the mui- fular coat. TheChap. III. INTESTINUM COLON. 3*19 The villous fubftance of the inner coat of the caecum is very (hort, and furnifhed in feveral places with glandular la- cunae or folitary glands, broader than thofe of the fmall in- teflines. Thefe glandular lacunae or folliculi are flattened and de- prefled in the middle like fmall pox. When we blow through a pipe into thefe lacunae without touching them, the follicu- li are inflated, and reprefent little cups with a hole in the middle of their convex fide. { 8. Inteflinum colon. Situation and ftruclure of the colon The colon is the mod considerable of all the inteftines. From the caecum, of which it is a continuation, it reaches, in form of an arch, above the the umbilical region, and to the lower part of the left hypo- chondrium. Its continuity is, however, a little interrupted by the ileum, which advances into the cavity of the colon, and, together with a certain fold of that inteftine, forms what is called vahntla coli. The whole convex fide of the colon is divided longitudi- nally into three parts, by three mufcular bands, firft known to Sylvius and Euftachius, continued from, and of the fame firufture with, thofe of the caecum. Two of thefe bands run on each fide along the great curvature of the colon and the third along the fmall curvature. The uppermoft band of the two that belong to the great curvature is the broadeft of the three •, that which belongs to the fmall curvature is the narroweft, and it lay hid by the connexion of the mefocolon, till it was brought to light by M. Morgagni. Thefe three longitudinal bands do the office of longi- tudinal fraena, between which this inteftine is, through its whole length, alternately deprefled into tranfverfe folds, and raifed320 INTESTINUM COLON- Fart VI- raifed into confiderabie eminences. All the folds are dupli- catures, which form portions of valvulae conniventcs in the cavity of the inrcfline ; and the eminences form receptacles, called the cells of the colon. All the coats of the colon concur equally to the formation of thcfe duplicatures and cells, the depth of which decreafes gradually toward the extremity, of the inteftine, and neither of them go any further than the ligamentary bands. Thele portions of the colon which are immediately cover- ed by the ligamentary bands, are fmooth, and without rugae; and therefore, if thefe bands alone are cut acrofs, the intef- tine is not fufhciently elongated to deffroy ali the folds and cells. The common coat on one fide is a continuation of the me- focolon, and on the other fide it contributes, by the fame continuation, to form the omentum. The longitudinal fibres of the mufcular coat are very {lender, excepting in the bands already mentioned ; and thofe which anfwer to the annular or circular fibres of the fmall inteftines, are only fegments flretched over the eminences and folds. The other coats are nearly as in the caecum ; only the glandular lacunae or folitary glands are broader and more numerous. The arch of the colon begins under the right kidney, near the haunch. It runs up on the forefide of that kidney to which it is connected ; pafies under the veficula fellis, which tinges it with a yellow colour at that place ; and continues its courfe before the firif incurvation of the duodenum, to which it adheres, and partly hides it. In this part of its courle, therefore, there is a remarkable connexion between the colon, duodenum, right kidney, and veficula fellis. From thence the arch of the colon runs before the great convexity of the ftomach, and lometimes a little lower ; it then turn backward under the fpleen, in the left hypochon- drium; it runs down on the forefide of the left kidney, to v/hich/ •\ Chap. TIT. INTESTINUM COLON. 321 which it is connected ; below this kidney, it turns toward the vertebrae, and terminates there by a double incurvature, or by two oppofite convolutions, which reprefent in fome meafure an inverted Roman g. Thefe lafl: convolutions of the colon are fometimes multi- plied, and even advance to the right fide of the pelvis ; and along the great arch, and the two laft incurvations, there are a kind of fringes, called appendices coli adipofae, which we fhall afterwards explain, as alfo the connections of the colon with the mefocolon and omentum. Valvula coli. At the place where the caecum joins the colon, one portion of the circumference of both is dcprefi'ed, and forms a large fold on the inlide, which advances into the cavity of the inteliine, and gets the name of valve of the ileum, of the caecum, or of the coion. Some have mimed it after Bauhin, who was laid to have difcovered it accidentally in Paris in 1579, by throwing water into the inteftines, and finding that the pafTage was obflruCted at. the end of the ileum ; but Vidus Vidius defcribed it feveral years before this. It is a little open in the middle, and its extremities are very thick, by the mutual duplicature of the coats of the caecum and colon. The extremity of the ileum is as it were grafted in the opening of this fold, and flrongly united to its fides by the adhefion of its tranfverfe fibres to the tranlverfe fibres of the caecum and colon. This union forms a thick ring, which likewife advances into the common cavity of the caecum and colon, where it is wrinkled or formed into gathers, almoft like the lower ex- tremity of the oefophagus, the pylorus, or inlide of the anus. Its circumference is more or lefs ova! ; and, by a kind of continuity with the common fold of the caeeunt and colon, it fo'rms two productions, which M. Morgagni calls the reti- nacula valvulae Bauhini. Vol. II. S s The /INTESTINUM COLON. Part VI- 322 The membranous coat of the extremity of the ileum is continued on the caecum and colon, without finking into any fold at the place where the ileum enters the colon. The longitudinal fibres of the mufcular coat feem here to be con- founded with the neareft circular fibres of the caecum and colon. The inner portion of the mufcular coat of the ileum runs in between the circular fibres of the ileum and colon, as into a common fold of thefe two inteftines ; from all which a thick fliort portion of a flefhy tube is formed, which is the circular rifing already mentioned. The tunica nerrofa and villofa of the extremity of the ileum likewife enter the common cavity of the caecum and colon, and on the edge of the circular rifing join the like c'oats of thefe two inteffines ; fo that the circular rifing or fliort mufcular tube is covered, both on the outer and inner .fides by a nervous and villous coat ; that on the fide being fupplied by the ileum, and the other by the two great intef- tines. The fituation of this extremity of the ileum is mod com- monly tranfverfe, and is inferted almoft in the fame direction in the common cavity of the two inteffines already mention- ed ; but it is often a little more inclined toward the caecum than to the colon;.and whereas, in all other places, the ileum is wide, and eafily dilatable, it is very narrow,at its infertion, and its fides are more folid and firm. It is chiefly in this ftrufture that the mechanifm of the in- fertion of the ileum in the caecum and colon confills; about which infertion or opening authors are very much divided, fome reckoning it a valve, others only a fphincler'. It is very evident, from what we have faid, that it is a double machine, contrived to hinder the return of the ex- crements into the ileum, becaufe it can produce this effect partly as a valve, and partly as a kind of fphinfter. The dried323 RECTUM and ANUS. Chap. III. dried preparations of this part give a very falfe idea of its ftructure and conformation; and the fame thing is to be laid Gf the opening of the appendicula vermiformis into the cae- cum. The capacious arch of the colon is conneffed by both ex- tremities to the regio lumbaris, near the kidneys, by two par- ticular ligaments, one on the right fide, the other on the lefr, which are only fmall duplicatures of the peritonaeum, more or lels tranfverfe. The remaining portion, which forms the two convolu- tions in form of the Roman S, contraffs below the left kidney, being narrower there than lower down The coats of this portion become* gradually thicker and ftronger, and likewile the ligamentary bands, which approach each other by degrees, and leem to increafe in breadth. , The veffels, nerves, &.c. will be found in the defeription of the melentery. § 9. Intejiinum Rectum, and Anus. Situation, figure, and fze of the rehlum. The la ft of all the inteftines is named rectum, or the tlraight gut, from its fituation ; for, \t>hen viewed direfily forward, it appears to run down in a firaight courle from the laft vertebra of the loins, oil the forefide of the os facrum, all the way to the os coccygis, where it ends in what is called the anus. This intefline, properly fptaking, is a true continuation of the laft convolution of the colon ; and it is the repofltory, fink, and common fewer, of the whole inteftinal canal. It has likewife a fpecial relation to the bladder, and to the parts of generation in both fexes. The reflum having pafted below the laft vertebra of the loins, to the infide of the os facrum, is bent backward, on that concave fide to which it is connefled, in the manner thatRECTUM and ANUS. Part VI. 3-4 that fhall be afterwards explained ; and, having reached the os coccygis, it runs likewile in the direction cf that bone, and bends a little forward, terminating btyond the extremity of the coccyx. The fi ure of this intefiine varies according as it is full or empty. When empty, it is irregularly cylindrical, and links ill by a kind of tranfverfe folds ; and in that hate it is about three fingers breadth in diameter, more or lels. When full, it is wider in proportion to the quantity of faeces, wind, or whatever eife is contained in it ; and it may be extended to the fize of a large bladder, fo as to reprefent a kind of Romach. SttuEIure of the refltim. The membranous coat often con- tains a great quantity of fat, fpread between it and the muf- cular coat, and forming round the inteftine numerous emi- nences, in the room of the appendices adipofae of the colon, which fhall be explained in the hiflory of the omentum. The mufcular or flefliy coat is very thick ; and the longi- tudinal fibres, which in the other inteflines are very thin, are in tins ftrongerthan the circular fibres of the rdt. The ligamentary bands continue to incrcafe in breadth, and to ap- proach each other, as has been faid ; and it is to the flclhy fibres of thefe bands that the ttiicknefs of the longitudinal fibres leem to be owing. The nervous or filamen'ous and internal coats are larger here than in the other inteflines; and, when the redhim is empty, they form a great number of waving rugae in its cavity, which difappear in proportion as that cavity is filled. The lnnermcft coat is very improperly termed villofa, and fiercely deferves the name of papillaris, becaule of the fmalj- refs of the little rorpufclcs fpread on its furface. It contains a great number of fingle or folitary glands ; and it is always moifiened by a mucus of different confifiencies, difeharged by thefe glands or folliculi, and perhaps by the corpufcles alfo. NearChap. III. MESENTERIUM, &c. 325 Near the extremity of this inteftine the rugae or folds be- come in a manner longitudinal; and at laft, towards the cir- cumference of the inner margin of the anus, they form little bags or femilunar lacunae, the openings of which are turned u; ward, toward the cavity of the inteftiue. Tnefe lacunae are fomething like thole of the lower extremity of the oefo- phagus, or upper orifice of the llomach. Mufcies of the anus. At length the extremity of the rec- tum contracts, and terminates by a narrow orifice called the anus, the tides ot which aredilpoled in clofe folds or gathers. This extremity ot the inteftine has feveral mufcies belonging to it, feme of which lurround it like fphinfters ; the reft are broad fl-ii.y p anes inlcrted in it, and which, being likewife fixed to other parts, iuftain it in its natural fituation, and re- ftore it to that fituation after being dillurbed by the force ne- cefiary for the exclufion of the faeces. Thefe latter mufcies are termed levatores ani; the lirft go by the general name of fph'inBers. bee defeription of Mufcies in Vol. I. ' 1 ij 10. Mefenierium et Me/ocolott. Divifton of the Mefentery, See. This great bundle of intef- tir.es is not left to move at random in the cavity of the abdo- men ; but artfully bound down by a membranous web, which prevents the intefhnal convolutions from being intangled in each other, and from being twifted or comprefied in all their different ways of meeting ; and yet allows them a gentle floating, but limited motion. This web goes ftill by the antient Greek name of mefentery, as being in fome meafure in the middle of ihe inteftines. It is diftinguifhed into two portions; one of which being very broad, and very much plaited, connects the fmall inteflines ; the other, which is long and incurvated, does the fame office to the great inteftines. Thefe3*6 MESENTERIUM, &c. Part VI. The Thefe two portions are in reality only one and the fame continuation of the membranous lamina of the peritonaeum doubled back upon itfclf, and they are diftinguifhed only by their breadth. Taken both together, they form a kfnd of fpiral roll, more or lefs plaited in its circumference. The firft portion has retained the name of mefentery; the other is termed mejocoton. Structure of the mefentery, &c. The mefentery begins at the laft incurvation of the duodenum, and runs obliquely from left to right, along the vertebrae of the loins. In this fpace, the membranous portion of the peritonaeum is detach- ed on both fides, produces a duphcature by two elongations or particular luminue applied to each other, and thus iorrns the mefentery. It is narrdwer at its upper and lower parts, but chiefly at the upper. The middle portion is very broad, and the edge of it next the inteftines is every where very much plaited. Thefe plaits or folds are only waving inflexions, luch as may be oblervcd in the edge of a piece 01 Ihamoy which has been often drawn through the fingers. 1'hey make this edge of the mefentery very long, and they run through about one third of its breadth. . , The two laminae are joined together by a cellular fub- ffance, which contains glands, veflels, and nerves, that fhall be defcribed hereafter; and in fome fubjefts it has a great quantity of fat, which keeps the two laminae at a good dil- tance from each other. Along the whole circumference of the mefentery, the two laminae are naturally feparated, and applied to the two fides of the finall inteftines, which they inveft by their union, or rather reciprocal continuation on the great curvature of that canal, and carry it as in a fcarf or fling. This is what forms the external or membranous coat of the inteftines.€hap. III'. MESENTERIUM, Sec.' 321 The mefocolon is the continuation of the mefentery $ which having reached the extremity of the ileum, contracts and changes its name. At this place, the particular lamina which is turned to the right fide, forms a fmall tranfverfe fold, called ligamentum coll dexirum- Afterwards the mefocolon afcends toward the right kid- ney, where it feems to be loft by the immediate adhefion of the colon to that kidney, and to the firft incurvation of the duodenum. Then it appears again, and, increafing in breadth, it continues its courle almoft traniverfely under the liver, ftomach, and fpleen, where it begins to turn downward, un- der the left hypochondrium, toward the kidney on the fame fide. Through this whole courfe the mefocolon extends in breadth, and forms nearly a tranfverfe femicircular plane, ve- ry Utile plaited at its great circumference. By this circum- ference or edge, it is connected to the colon, and hides that ligamentary band of this inteftine, which runs along its fmall curvature. By its fhort or fmall edge, it forms the triangu- lar cafe of the duodenum; and, by its great edge, the ex- ternal coat of the colon, in the fame manner as the mefen- tery does that of the fmall inteftines. As it pafles under the large extremity of the ftomach, it adheres a little to the lower portion of that extremity, as the diaphragm does to the upper. Having got below the left kidney, it contracts, and forms another tranfverfe fold, called llgamcnium coll ftnijlrum. Af- terwards it expands again, but not fo much as in the uppbr part, and runs down on the leftfpfoas mufcle, toward the laft: vertebra of the loins. This defcending portion is fixed to the convolutions of the colon, in the fame manner as the lu- perior portion is to the arch of that inteftine. The inteftinum reCtum is likewife inverted by a particular produ&ion of the peritonaeum, called commonly by the name ofPart VT. MESENTERIUM, &c. of tnefo-recium. This produdtion is very narrow, and about the middle of the fore fide of the redtum, it forms a tranf- verfe femicircular fold, which appears when the inteftine is empty, but is loft when it is filled. Between the laminae of the intfentery, a great number of glands lie fcattered through the cellular fubftance. In the natural ftate, thefe glands are fomething of the figure of len- tils or little round beans, fome of them being orbicular, o- thers oval, but all of them a little flatted, and in corpulent fubjedts we find them furrounded with fat. Thefe glands are of the number of thofe that anatomifts call glandulae cong!obatae> the ftrudture of which is not as yet, fufficiently known. They feem to be of a cellular fub- ftance, furrounded by a very fine membrane or coat, on which, by the help of microfcopes, we difcover an intertex- ture of particular filaments, which Malphigi believed ■ to be flefhy fibres. The niceft anatomical injections have not hitherto given us any iatisfadtion about thele particulars; for though they be made with all pcflxble care, they always fill the folliculous texture of thefe glands; and though, by means of thefe in- jedtions, Vve may difcover a great many vcfTels which were before invifible, we are not a whit the nearer our purpofe, be- caufe we cannot, by this method, diftinguifh the fecretory, excretory, and blood-veflels from each other. Befides the blood-veflels, which are diftributed in a reticu- lar manner in the mefenteric glands, and befides many ner- vous filaments fpread through them, we difcover an infinite number of fmall lymphatic veflels running from gland to gland. Thefe veflels are extremely thin and tranfparent, and fur- nilhed on the infide with numerous valves, which appear on the outfide like little fmall knots very near each other. They go out from each gland by ramifications, as by fo many roots;Chap. III. 329 BLOOD-VESSELS. Vol. II. T t The roots; and having formed a fmail trm.k, they are again di- vided, and enter fotne neighbouring gland by the fame kind of ramifications by which they went out from the former. La Flea l vejjels. Thefe are termed lymphatic vejjels, becaufe for the mod part they contain a very clear, limpid, though mucilaginous ferum, called lympha by anatomifts. But as they have lileewife ,been obferved to be filled with a white milky fluid, called chyle, they have been called vafa chylijerat or venae laclcne. They have the name of veins, becaule their valves are dilpofed as thofe of the ordinary blood-veins, and becaufe the fluid which they contain runs from fmaller into larger tubes: But the particular deferipnon of thefe will come in more properly in a latter part of the work. / § 12. The Blood-vejjels and Nerves of the Int fines. Blood-vejfels of the Intcfmes. The duodenum has common- ly a particular artery, called duodenalis or intejlinalis, which comes indifferently from the ftomachica coronaria, pylorica, galtrica major, or hepatica. It has likewTe leveral diltituft ramifications from ,thefe trunks, ^nd from the mefenterica fuperior and fplenica; which ramifications communicate with each other. The arteria duodenalis, and the other addit onal fmail ar- teries, form a vafcular network round the mufcular coat of the inteffine, which fends out a great number of capillaries toward both the outer and inner fides, that make the whole mteftine look of a red colour. The veins of the duodenum are ramae of the vena por- tae, and the diftribution and denomination thereof is much the fame with that of the arteries; only they communicate more with each other than the arteries, and alfo with the great Haemorrhoidal vein.Part VL BLOOD-VESSELS. The 33® The venal ramifications form round the duodenum a net- work like that of the arteries-, and the lame kind of vafcu- lar texture is mere or leis to be found in all the other intef- tines. 1 ' The arteries of the jejunum come chiefly from the mefen- terica fuperior, and fome from the aicending branch of the n.efenterica inferior. The veins for the moff part open into the great meferaica ; and the reft go into the fplenica and final! meferaica or haemorrhoid.ilis interna. The principal lubaltcr.n trunks of thefe arteries and veins accom, any each other through the cellularLubffance between the laminae of the melentery; are diflributed by branches and ramK; and form the melhes, lozenges, and arches, which fhall be mentioned in the defeription of the arteries and veins. The laft of thefe arches and lozenges, or. thofe next to the intelline,1 produce two fmall vafcular planes, which fe- parate from each other very diftin&ly, and furround the in- teflinal canal in a reticular manner. The blood vefTels of the .feum have the fame fources with thofe of the jejunum; and it ought to be obferved concern- ing both thefe veflels, and thofe of the jejunum, that in t!»eir whole courfe through fhe mefentery, they give ramifications 1 to the glands, laminae, and cellular fubflance of the mefen- tery; and alfo, that there is a kind of communication be- tween leveral fmall meferaic veins and the capillary rami of the venae lumbares and fpermaticae. The arteries of the caecum and nppendicula vermiformis, are ramifications of the la(t branch from the convex fide of the melenterica fuperior; and they have likewife fome fmall ones from the iecond and third branches, when both are found. 1 he veins of thefe two parts are ramifications of the great meferaica ; and one of thefe rami is by Riolan termed •vaetia caeca [is > i ■*331 Chap. TIT. BLOOD-VESSELS. I The ftraight potttion of the arch of the colon, or that which is an immediate continuation of the caecum, is lup- plied with arteries by the fecond branch that comes from the concave fide of the mefenterica luperior, and likewite a little by the third, when there is a third. , Tht luperior or middle p -rtion of the arch of the colon, is furmthcd by the rirlt branch from tire fame fide of the melenterica luperior, which, by a bifurcation, communicates on both hands with the other portions of the arch of the colon. ’lhe left portion of this arch derives its arteries partly from the tint branch of the lame niclent,erica, t\nd partly from tnat of the melenterica interior ; which two branches form the celebrated communication or common arch of the two mclemericae. By means of this communication or continuation, in cafe one artery Ihould be obltructed or comprefied, the other would furniih blood to all the branches below ihe place of the obftruction. The fecond branch ot the mefenterica infe- rior, gives likewife fmall arteries to the left extremity of the colon. The defeending convolutions of the colon which reprefent a Roman h, are fupplied by the other branches of the me- fenterica inferior, the lalt of which forms the haemorrhoida- lis interna. The veins of all thefe portions of the colon form trunks which terminate chiefly in the haemorrhoidalis interna or meiaraica minor an.l nnjor, and l'ikewiie in the vena portae ventralis. 'The diliribution of thefe branches and ramifica- tions is in fome mealure the lame with that of the arteries, as may be feen in the defcription of the veins. The arteries of the redlum are furnifiied by the haemorr- hoidabs interna, the lalt branch of the mefenterica inferior, which communicates with the hvpogallrica, and particularly with33^ NERVES. Part VL with the haemorrhoidalis externa, a production of one of tilde arteries- The veins of the redtum go to form the beginning of the meleraica minor or haemcrrhoidalis interna; and they com- municate with the haemorrhoidales externae, vvh ch are rami of one of the hypogaftricae. They communicate like wife with thte capillary ramifications of the other hypogaftric veins, which come from the internal parts of generation of both fexes. It is here to be obferved in general, that there is a fuccef- five continuation, more or Ids fimple or multiplied, between all the arteries of the infdtinal canal, and likewile between all the veins ; and alfo, that the veins are here thinner and more capacious than the arteries, in a greater proportion than in the other parts of the body. Ne> ves of the intejhnes. The nerves of the duodenum are the middle plexus of the femilunar ganglion, and fome fila- ments of the plexus itomachicus and hepaticus. The nerves of the jejunum,, ileum, and mefenteric glands, are the plexus mefentericus fuperior, the poiterior melenteric falciculi, 'and the plexus melentericus inferior. Tne nerves of the caecum are the poiterior mefenteric faf- cicuh or plexus, and the plexus melentericus interior. The nerves of the arch of the colon are the lame falciculi, and the two plexus mdenterici. The nerves of the lalt convolutions of the colon arc the poiterior melenteric fakiculi, and the plexus melentericus inferior and lub-melen ericus. The nerves of the redtum are the plexus mefentericus in- ferior, plexus lub-melentericus or hypogaltricus, and the two ganglions of that plexus. 1 The nerves of the anus, and of its mufcles, are the gan- glions of the plexus fub-mefentericus, the inferior rope of bothChap. III. DIGESTION. 333 both fympathetici maximi, and the common arch of the ex- tremities of.both ropes. \ § 12. Digejlion. Within the human lloimch we find great quantities of mucus lpread upon its villous coat, and not unlrequcutly tinged by iome ot the bile returning into the ltomach. iie- fidts this mucus, wc hud, elpcciaily in an empty Itumach, a limpid humour, of the lame nature with the laliva, Dot ra- ther more mucous. When it can be had pure and uiunixed .with the food, (which it may, by bending the body lorward when it returns throuQh the oelophagus into the mouth) it is by no means acid. Left to itlelf, when untainted \Wth the acid illuvies of the aliments, it is changed into a lixivial nature, both in men and brutes, elpcciaily in hungry animals. This liquor diltils from the arteries of the ltomach, through . its villous coat, as we lee by anatomical injections, by which water, ifinglals, and oil, may be ealily urged into the vcliels of the ltomach, to as to lweat through its numerous pores. The itomsch being contained within the cavity ot the ab- domen which is always fuil, will be prefled on every fide by the diaphragm and abdominal mulcles ; and the more it is filled the greater will this prcflure be, both on account of the d mention of the integuments of the abdomen, and the altered fituation of the ltomach, which, when full, touches the peritonaeum at right angles. Both the pain of hunger, and the pleafure of gratifying the appetite, excite us to the performance of an aftion abfio- . lutely necefliiry for our fupport, viz. the taking a due portion of ..liment in order to counterbalance the watte of the bodv * / by the infallible perfpi'ration and oth'er evacuations. This nectflity of frequently taking food is increafed by the blood, which being naturally of a Inline quality, loon acquires an acrimoniousPart VL DIGESTION. 3S4 acrimonious putrefcency, by the evaporation of its thin watery parts ; and this evaporation being incrcafed by the heat of the body, and the motion of the heart and arteries, nature calls drcuuoufly fora recruit of the watery element, by which the cohefive globules of the blood are feparated from each other, and hindered from running together into a folid mafs. ,1 Thefe truths are proved, not only from their caufes, but likewile by the appearances which they exhibit in men and other animals ftarvcd to death. For, in fuch, we commonly obferve the breath fharp and fetid, the teeth loofened by the difiblving acrimony of the juices, violent pains in the do- mach acute fevers, and even madnefs. All thefe dilorders arife fooner and ftronger, as the perfon is more robuft and more accullomed lo exercdc ; but they enfue very flowly in phlegmatic people, who are una£tive, perfpire little, and put the blood into no great motion. Laftly, thole who have li- ved fome time without food and bodily exercife have, for the mod part, laboured under a difeafe of the nerves. The frelh chyle, prepared, for the mod part, from acelccnt vegetable food, is of a confidence always thin- ner than that of the blood itlelf; being received into the circulation, it temperates the putrefcent acrimony, di- lutes the threatened coagulation, and reduces the whole mafs to that moderate degree of faline nature which is natu- ral to man j And finally, the chyle, but more elpecially that derived from animal food, and likewife what is formed of farinaceous vegetables, being replenillied with gelatinous lymph, ferves to repair the confumption or wade which is made from the body itfelf, to the vacuities of whofe broken folids it is applied by the caufes which promote the growth of the body. The drink dilutes the cohefive diathefis of the blood, hinders its putrefa&ion, and carries off by the emunc- tories luch particles as are already putrid And hence it is that33 5 Chap. III. DIGESTION. that a perfon may live for a long time without folid food, if he is fupplied with drink ; but, without drink, life lublifts but a few days. We are folicited, as was faid above, to take food, as well from the fenie of pain we call hunger, as from the pleafure received by the talle. The firft of thefe proceeds doubtlefs from the folds or plicae of the ftomach, whole lenfation is extremely acute, rubbing againft each other by the periftaltie motion, and from a prelTure of the diaphragm and abdomi- nal mufcles, by which the naked villi of the nerves on each, fide of the ftomach are made to grate againfl thofe of the other, producing, at the fame time, an intolerable lenle of "pain. Thus, we are effectually admonilhed of the ddngers snfuing from too long abltinence or falling, and excited to procure food or nnurilhment by labour and indultry. The gaftric liquor, becoming acid from fatting, may alfo perhaps -conduce to excite the lenle of hunger; but it will not pro- duce any effeCt if it is putrcfcent. Thirji is perceived by the tongue, fauces, oefophagus, and ftomach. For, whenever thefe very lenlible parts, which are conftantly and naturally moiltened by mucous and falival juices, grow dry from a deficiency of thefe or fimilar hu- mours, or are irritated by a redundancy of muriatic or alka- lelcent falts, a lenfe called thirft, which is much more into- lerable and dangerous than the former, arifes ; this difagree- able lenfation continues until the proportion of diluting water in the blood, being recruited, reltcres the necefiary moiftutc and free fecretion required in the parts before mentioned. From hence we learn why thirft attends labour, which ex- hales a. greater proportion of the watery perlpiration ; and why it is a fymptom of fevers, where there is an obfti uCtioa of the exhaling veffids belonging to the tongue and f mces.; and why limple water is lefs efficacious in abating >mrft than I • * acid liquors, that not only moiften and render fluid, but alfo* byPart Vh 33<S DIGESTION. by their mild irritation of the tongue and mouth, provoke forward the humours, and at the fame time correct their pu- trid tendency. Being under the neceffity of feeking food for the fupport of life, we have chofen it from a great variety of both ani- mals and vegetables, adding to'ench of them'certain portions of water and fait, either to aflift their folution, render them more fapid. It is probable that the primitive choice of our foods was made by experiments, according as the variety of fmells and flavours in vegetables and their feveral parts in- vited us, and as the ftrength or recruit of our faculties, from their ufe, confirmed their utility. But, by degrees, animals increafing fo much as to be incommodious to the hufband- man, and vegetables alone not being fufficient for fupporting them under their labours, the flefh of animals was afterwards added. At prefent, both the number and variety of fub- ftances are almoft infinite, which we take either as food or feafonina for cur nouriihment. Although there are many iuftances of particular perfons, and even of whole nations, who have iupported life only with one kind of food, either vegetable or animal, or even from a fmall clafs of either of them ; and, lafily, though fome have lived altogether upon milk, or its vvhev ■, yet it feems to be necefiary, both from the nature and fabric of the human bo- dy itfelf, as we.ll as from certain experiments, that we ought to fupport life by the different kinds of food, (o intermixed, that none of them may exceed their reafonable bounds.; and this mediocrity we are taught from the loathing which follows any one kind of food continued for too long a time together.' Animal food appears a necefiary part of our nourifhment, from the fabric of the human ffomach refembling that of carnivorous animals ; and from teeth being inferted into each jaw ; from the fmallnefs and fhortnefs of the inteffinum cae- -j cum;DIGESTION. 337 Chap. III. cum ; and from the neceflary vigour which require. A- nimaL food alone contains the gelatinous lymph ready pre- pared for the recruit both of our fluids and folids ; and this lymph, extracted from the broken veficls and fibres, ealily paffes in great abundance into the blood. An abmnence from animal food generally caufes great wcakneis both to the body and flomach, being perpetually attended with a trouble- iome diarrhoea. In the lize and length of toe intei’tina cral- fa, man agrees with herbivorous animals. Efculent vegetables are gehe*ally of the acefcent kind ; fome few of tjhem however are alkalelcenr or aromatic. Few of them have that animal glue wh ch is ipontantoufly change- able into blood ; for it is only the (mail portion ot jelly which, is drawn from their farinaceous parts, that, afer many re- peated circulations, is converted into the nature of our pro- per juices. The ufe of vegetables is extremely neceflary in order to prevent a too great quantity of blood, and to hinder its putrefcency. Too much animal food produces, ail we lee more particularly in Athropophagi, the hot alkalelcent (cur- vy, a fierce or favage temper, a peculiar fetor, and lepro- fy, with a lixivial corruption of all the juices ; which .ire only to be_cured by change of diet, in which a vegetable acidity abounds. Hence it is that we are furnilhed but with few canine teeth ; and that our appetite in health, but more efpdcially in difeale, is fironger for acidulous vegetables, in proportion to our warmer temperature of body, and greater heat of the country, or the feal'on of the year. Hence we fee, that, in the hotted climates, people live either altogether upon vegetables, or ufe fiefh meats bu; very rarely, and not without danger of acute difeafes ; while, in the colder coun- tries, flelh is eaten freely with lefs danger ; and hence bread, or a farinaceous aliment fimilar to it, is made a Handing part of our food throughout the world. Vol. II. U u ThePart Vf- 338 DIGESTION. The beft dn is afforded by pure water, not incorporated with halts, nor with air, which may excite fermentations. Of this kind vve juflly prefer that from a mountainous fpring7 which runs through a Tandy bed, and which is cold, clear, light, and infipid \\ henever we are unprovided with fuch pure water, as is frequently the cafe in low flat countries, or when any increafe of the ftrength and mufcular conflri£tion of the flomach is required from a fpicy ftimulus, i*s place may be very well fupplied by wine, prepared chiefly from grapes •, but, in defett of thof*-, from apples and pears •, which, after a due fermentation, becomes clear, and is replenifhcd with an acid fait, and oily or inflammable fpirit, well diluted with water. Tiq ors of the fame kind, replete with a vipous or inflammable fj irit, but more flatulent, heavy, and lefs pa- latable, are extracted by boiling water from grain of different kinds previoufly malted, and prepared by fermentation, as fubflitutes for wiae in tliofe countries where the grape does not ripen. Mankind have invented various pickles and fauces, as fait, vinegar, and acids of various kinds, to correct the purrefeent difpofitioh of fielh-meats ; and pepper, and other hot ipices, to flrengthen the action of the flomach, which is perpetually weakened by the ufe of vegetables : To thefe we may add fusar, and the caflern fpices, which are generally ufed either for the fake cf flavouring or preferving our food. But all thefe yield no ncuriflnneht, being deliitute of all gelatinous lymph, or any farinaceous quality. fhe aliments are v&rioufly prepared, according to the dif- ference of c»untrv, climate, or lealon ; and thus their crudity is removed, t'h.ir folid fibres foftened, their fuperfluous air excelled, arid their difagreeable acrimony changed and ren- der cl agreeable. But even after this, many vegetable foods, an ' more el'perialiy flelh meats, require to be divided, iu fome degree, by previous maftication, which is particularly nccefurvDIGESTION. Ghap. III. 339 neceftary in man, whofe ftomach has but few'and weak muf- cles Previous mu ticution alfo afiilts digeition, and therefore prevents the food from flaying lo long upon the itomach as to become putrid , The meafure of our food is determined by hunger, which is d fFcrent in different' c;rcumftances. Animal and farina- ceous food nouriihes molt : Other at intents ought to fupply, by their quantity, what they want in :heir powers ;f nouriih- tiient In general, we are nourtined belt oy a iomewhat ipare diet, unIds we are lubjecled to much labour. Aliments ot various kinds are received into the ftomach, either whole or mahicated home of them are alkalefceut, as animal fubftances ; others rancefcent, as fat ; others acel- cetit, as vegetables; and others glutinous, as milk, hr . ad, and mod of the farinaceous feeds. The aliments ate digelied in a heat nearly eijuai to that necefTtry for hatching an egg, produced by the circumjacent liver, ipleen, and other vifter.t. During digeftion, the ftomach is perfectly doled, both at its Superior,'and interior orifices; and, although the mufcular fibres ct the Itomach contradl, yet no food is propelled imo t^he inteftines, until it has been thoroughly digelied ; even nu,k itlelf is often retained in the ftomach of ftrong animals feveral hours after a meal, without puffing itito the mteltinee. The ul iments, either naturally containing air in thtmlelves, - or mixed with air in maflication, are macerated in the juices of the It divide h. in conitquence of the heat, this included air is expanded, and .by an operation fomewhat firm! r to fef- mentation, breaks the cells in which it was included, and thus the contents of the liunach are reduced to a pulpy (late. The lohdity of animal fubftances is occafioned foieiy by their being impregnated with air, and the air being extricated or fet free in the ftomach, thefe fubftances are reduce hie to a friable or loluble ftate. This laflfacl is iliuilrated by Papin’s digefter. This air, let at liberty by the digeftion, often, un- " cleic34° DIGESTION. Part VI. der the denomination of flatus, diflends the ftomach more than the food iifelf. While it is extricated, the aliments be- gin to corrupt or change into a naufeous liquid, often acef- cent, or otherwife putrelcent, which however happens lefs in mankind from our ufe ot bread and fait. It is frequently rancefcent, a- appears from jhe flatus, and often of a moffc fetid, cauflic, and inflammable nature. This putrefcency, or imperfect putrefaction, fays Haller, is almoft the only caufe of digeftion in fiHi, ferpents, and carnivorous birds. Hence, in mankind, metals themfelves, by long (lay in the itomach, grow foft, and are eroded ; but, from Spallanzani’s experi- ments, it appears that there are no figns of putrefaction in 'the time of digeftion, except in fick animals. (See Experi- ments on Digefton, &c.). During digeftion there is no lenfe of hunger, for the nervous plicae of the ftomach are kept from grating on each other by the interpofition of the food ; and they are^ not affcCted by the gaftric juice, which, in di- geftion, aCts on the aliment. The aliment is prevented from becoming completely acid, by the heat ; by the gaftric juices ; by the faliva, which is rather alkalelcent, and fwallowed to the amount of half an ounce in an hour •, and by the bile which frequently regurgi- tates into tiie ftomach. i here is no particular kind of fer- ment in the ltoaiach ; from which the defign of nature, the dilpoliiion ot the Itomach, and its ufe, are all very remote. And yet the juice ot the ftomach alone, efpecially in fifties, difloives the bones of other fifties, which they had devoured. (See Spallanzani’s'Experiments). To the preceding theory of digeftion, taken from Haller, we fliall add an abridged account of fonie experiments, ex- tracted from the ingenious Mr Smellie’s Philotophy ot Natu- ral Hiftory. « Dr Stevens, in an Inaugural Piflertation concerning Di- geftion, pubiiflied at Edinburgh in the year 1777* ma^c feveral34* Chap. III. DIGESTION. feveraf experiments upon a German, who gained a miferable livelvhood by fw ,Mowing {tones for the amufement of the people. He began this ftrange practice at the age of {even, and had at that time continued in it about twenty years. He fwallowrd fix or eight (tones at a time, fome o( them as large as a pigeon’s egg, and p.fled them in the natural way. Dr Stevens thought this poor man would be ah excellent i'ubject for alcertaining the folvent power of the gaftric juice in the human ftoniach. The Dodtor, accordingly, snade ufe of him for this purpole. He made the German fivallow a hollow filver (phere, divided into two cavities by a partition, and perforated with a great number of holes, capable of admit- ting an ordinary needle. Into one of theie cavities he put four fcruples and a half of raw beef, and into the other five fcruples of raw bleak. In twenty-one hours the (phere was voided, when the beef had loft a fcruple and a half, and the fifh two fcruples. A few days afterwards, this German fwal- lowed the fame fphere, which contained, in one cavity, four fcruples and four grains of raw, and, in the other, four fcru- ples and eight grains of boiled beef. The fphere was return- ed in forty-three hours: The raw flefh had loft one fcruple and two grains, and the boiled one fcruple and fixteen grains. Sufpettihg that, if thefe lubftances were divided, the folvent would have a freer accels to them, and more of them would be difiblved, Dr Stevens procured another fphere, with holes large enough to receive a crow’s quill. He inclofed (ome beef in it a little mafticated. In thirty-eight hours after it was ("wallowed, it was voided quite empty. Perceiving how rea- dily the chewed meat was diffolved, he tried whether it would diflolve equally foon without being chewed. With this view, he put a fcruple and eight grains of pork into one cavity, and fhe fame quantity of cheefe into the other. The fphere was retained in the German’s ftomach and intefiines forty-three hours; at the end of which time, not the fmalleft quantity ofPart VI. 342 DIGESTION. of pork or cheefe wa<- to be found in the fphere H<* next fwallowed the f.»mr fphere, which contained, in one partition, fome roafted turk y, and fom boilt fair herring in the o- ther The fphere was voided in forty lix hours; hut no part of the turkey t r herring appeared ; for both had been completely d flhlv d H.ivmg difcotered that animal Jub- ilances, th< ugh inclofed in tubes, were ealily diif lved by the gallric juice, the Dodlor tried whe1 her it would pr duce the fame effect upon vegetables. He therefore inclofed an equal quantity of raw parlnep and potatoe in a fphere. After con- tinuing forty eight hours in the alimentary canal, not a vef- i tige of either remained. Pieces of apple and turnip, both raw and boded, were diffolved in thirty-fix hours. “ It is a comfortable circumflance, that no animal, perhaps, except thofe worms which are hatched in the human intef- \ tii.es, can relilt thr d llolving power of the gaftric juice. Dr Stevens incloled live leeches, and earth worms, in different fplv res, and made the German fwallow them. When the fpheres were dikharged, the animals were hot only deprived of live, but completely diflblvtd by the operation of this pow- erful menllruuin. Hence, if any live reptile fhould chance to be (wallowed, we have no reafon to appreiiend any danger from fuch an accident. “ The German left Edinburgh before the Dodlor had an opportunity of making a farther progrtfs in his experiments. He therefore had recourf'e to dogs and ruminating animals. In the courfe of his trials upon the folvent power in the gallric fluid of dogs, he found that it was capable of dilTo'.ving hard bo res, a> d even balls of ivory; but that, in equal times, very little imprrfiion was made upon potatoes.-pirfnep, and other vegetable fuhftances. On the con rarv, in the ruminating animals, as the fheep, the ox, &c. he difeovered, that their t-aflric juice fpeedily diffolved vegetables, but made no impref- fion on beef, mutton, and other animal bodies. From thefe ' ’ laft’ I ►DIGESTION. Chap. IIT. 343 laft experiments, it appears that the different tribes of ani- mals are not lefs diftinguilhed by their externa! figure, and by their manners, than by the quality and power of their gaftric juices. Dogs are unab e to digeft vegetable, and llieep and oxen cannot digeft animal (ubftances. As the gufi- trie juice of the human ftomach is capable of diffolving, near- ly with equal eafe, both animals and vegetables, this circum- ftance affords a ftrong, and altnoft an irrelifiible proof, that nature originally intended man to feed prom fcuoufly upon both “ Live animals, as long as the vital principle remains in them, are not affifted by the folvent powers of th ftomach. 4 Hence it is,’ Mr Hunter remarks, ‘ that we find animals ‘ of various kinds living in the ftomach, or even hatched « and bred there; but the moment that any of thefe lofe « the living principle, they become lubject to the digeftive 4 powers of the ftomach. If it were poflible, f >r example, 4 for a man’s hand to be introduced into the (tomach of a 4 living animal, and kept there for li-me confiderable time, % 4 it would be found that the diffolvenr powers of the fto- 4 mach could .have no effeift upon it : but, if the lame hand 4 were feparated from the body, and introduced into the 4 fame ftomach, we fhouid then find, that he ftomach would 4 immediately acl upon i . Indeed, if this were not the 4 cafe, we Ihould find that the ftomach iit'clf ought to have 4 been made of indigeltible materials; for, if the living 4 principle was not capable of preferving animal fubftanecs 4 from undergoing th it-procefs, the ftomach itieif would be 4 digefted. But we find, on the contrary, that the ftomach, 4 which at one inft.int, that is, while poff ffed of the living 4 principle, was capable of refilling the digeftive powers 4 which it contained, the next, moment v z. when deprived 4 of the living principle, is it I- f ••apabl of being digefted, 4 cither by the di6eltive powers ot other ftomacus, or by the ‘ remains * IfM4 DIGESTION. Part VI. * remains of that power which it had of digefting other « things.’ “ When bodies are opened fome time after death, a confi- derable aperture is frequently found at the greateft extremity of the ftomach. 1 In thefe cafes,’ lays Mr Hunter, ‘ the ‘ contents of the ftomach are generally found loofe' in the * cavity of the abdomen, about the fpleen and diaphragm. * In many fubjeCts, this digeftive power extends much farther * than through the ftomach. I have often found, that, af- * ter it had diflolved the ftomach at the ufual place, the ‘ contents of the ftomach had come into contact with the ‘ fpleen and diaphragm, had partly diflolved the adjacent < fide of the fpleen, and had diflolved the ftomach quite * through; fo that the contents of the ftomach were found ‘ in the cavity of the thorax, and had even affected the * lungs in a fmall degree.” The flefhy fibres of the ftomach being irritated by the fla- tus, the weight, and the acrimony of the food, begin to con- tract themfelves more powerfully than when the ftomach is' empty, and with a greater force in proportion as it is more full. And, firft, the mufcular ftratum, which pafles along the lefler curvature, draws the pylorus to the oefophagus; and, being inferted only into the left face of the former, draws it to the right. The principal ftratum of the circular fibres contracts the capacity of the ftomach according to its length; grinds or intermixes its contents with the liquors; and determines them both, like the preflure of two hands placed oppofite, to flow towards the pylorus : But this flux through the pylorus is not continual, on account of the val- vula pylori, and likewife becaufe this motion begins from fome part that is more irritated, and, as we fee by nume- rous experiments, part of it is very foon received into the blood. Thefe alternate contractions at laft terminate in a full evacuation. In this aCtion of the ftomach, there is no- i thingDIGESTION. 34S Chap III. V°L. II. X X fed thing which refembles the triture made by the ftrong giz- zards of granivorous fowls, which fome anatomies have alcri- bed to the human ftomacb. The ftomach, however, has a conliderable degree of (trength, fince the contraction of its fibres is often more than a third part of their length ; for we frequently fee the ftomach reduced to lefs than a rhirjf part of its diameter. The ftomach is nlfo frequently obferved to be diminilhed to much lefs than its third part, even to the breadth of an inch, fo that it can expel the fmallelt fibftan- ces, and entirely evacuate itfelf. The compreffiug force of the ftomach mult be very final!, as it bruiles neither berries por worms The motions which the ftomach receives from the dia- phragm and abdominal mulcles is greater than its proper pe- riftaltic mot ion. It is principally by the lorce'of theic muicies that the drinks are urged on continually, 6ui the lohd foods only when they are diifolved, icit thole parts whicn are too grois fliuulti De expelled through the pylorus into cue duode- num ; for thefoiid aliments do not feem to leave the ftomach before they have changed their fibrous or other texture for iliat of a mucus; being, as it were, a cineritious, yellowifh, lb me. what fetid, mucilaginous, and liquid pulp. That which is firft prepared and become fluid goes out of the ftomach before the reft ; but, fiich things as are hard, or too large to pafs the pylorus, are retained in the ftomach for a longer time. The'ftomach being irritated by too great a quantity or acri- mony of the food, by ficknefs, by a rcpulfion of the bile, or other caufes,does, by an antiperiftaltic or reverted motion of its fibres, drive its contents upwards through the open and relaxed oefo.Tagus in the adt of vomiting. Any part of the whole m- teftinal canal, from the pharynx to the rectum, may be con- ftridted, either luddenly or {lowly, by an antiperilhdtic ;i otion. If it happens fuddrnly to the upper parts at the (tolnach, the c.iaphragm, and likewife the aodonainal mulcles, being convulrDIGESTION. 346 Part VI. fed at the fame time, it is called vomiting; if it is flowly per- formed, it may be called mminatio; if the fmall, and parti- cularly the great inteftines, return their contents upwards, the difeafe is called ileus. The effe£t of vomiting is partly from the preflure of the abdominal mufcles deprefling the falfe ribs, and urging the contents of the abdomen againll the diaphragm ; which, at the fame time, contracting itfelf to a plane downwards, forces the ftomach, as between the fldes of a prefs, to throw up its contents. The aliments driven in their natural courfe to the duode- num, meet there with the influent bile and pancreatic juice, which often flow back into the ftomach. ' A thin watery liquor diftils from the exhaling arteries into the cavity of the intrftines, like the juice of the ftomach, not acrid, but faltifh. The quantity of this liquor may be com- puted from the large extent or fum of all the excretory ori- fices, and from the feCtion of the fecretory artery, which is larger than any other in, the body ; add to this, the laxity of the parts perpetually kept warm and moift, and the copious diarrhoea or watery dilcharge that often follows the ufe of purgative medicines The mucus arifing from the pores or cells, ferves to lubricate and defend the internal furface of the * vilious membrane, and to guard the fenfible nerves from ftrongly acrid or pungent particles. Hence we fee, it is more abundant at the beginning of the larger inteftines, becaufe there the m ifs of aliment begins to be more feculent, acrid, and tenacious. The mixture of this liquor with the pulp like mafs of the aliment, together with the bile and pancreatic juice, is made by the motion of the furrounding muicles of the abdomen ; but this force is lmall, and incapable of moving the aliments forward. The peri (lair ic motion, which is more particularly flrong and evident in the fmall inteftines, is the chief power by which the digefted aliments are propelled along the intef- ' * finalDIGESTION. Chap. III. 347 tinal tube. Anv part of the inteftine, irritated by flatus or any (harp or rough body, contracts itfelf, even after death, mod violently in that part where the ftimulus is applied, in order to free itfelf from the offending or diltending body, which it expels into the next open part of the lax inteftine \ where, being received, it is again propelled forward, by excit- ing a like ftimulus and contraction as before, flats contrac- ting motion of the inteftines is made in various parts of the gut, either fuccefllvely or at the fame time, wherever the flatus or aliment excites a ftimulus, without oblervmg any certain order. So well fitted, however, are the inteftines for this motion, that they even exceed the irritability of the heart. When they are not irritated, they remain at reft; and we may fuppofe this to be the caufe why the fat is depo- fited in the abdomen. The principal ftimulus is the air; next: to that is the aliment ; and laltly, the bile. This mo- tion is performed by a fort of alternate creeping and revolu- tion of the inteftines, which difleCtion eafily demonftrates in brute animals, and cafes of wounds in the abdomen and rup- tures have manifefted it in the human- fpecies. Among fo many inflexions, the weight of the aliment is but of little confequence, for it eafily afeends or defeends through the ir- ritated inteftine, which thus empties itfelf. This periftaltic motion of the inteftines is performed by the conftri&ion of their circular fibres, which empty the tube exadtly, without injuring it againft pins, needles, or any other fliarp bodies accidentally introduced into it, they being at the fame time pufhed forward. But the revolutions, or thole mo- tions in which the tube is alternately (hortened and lengthen- ed, and the Heightening of crooked parts one before another, which is fo remarkably conlpicuous in brute animals, are per- formed by the long fibres, which we lee conrraCt themfelve*- at the feat of the prefent, ftimulus, and dilate the following por- tion, in order to receive what follows. By the lame contraction, the348 digestion. Part VI. the villous membrane of the inteftines, within their cavity, is urged and reduced into longer folds ; whence the mucus is exprefled and applied, by the force-of irritation and flimu- lus, to that part of the alimentary mats where it was requir- ed. Thefe long fibres frequently make intro-fufceptions of the inteftines, and generally without any bad conlequences, by drawing up the contracted portion of the intefiine into" that which is loofe, in fuch a manner, that the former is fqr- rounded by the.latter, which is relaxed. , '■ The alimentary pulp, diluted, with the pancreatic juice and that of the inteftines, intimately mixed with the faponaceohs bile and circumjacent mucus, is more perfectly difiolved than it was bv the efficacy of the ftomach, in proportion as the tides of the inteftines come into a larger contaCt, and ap- proach nearer together ; to which add, the longer feries of the perifialtic motions, and the greater quantity of diffblving juices. In this manner the alimentary pulp, intermixed with, air, forms a froth, without any kind of fermentation. At the fame time the acid or acefcent quality is corrected, while the oily or fat parts, difiolved by the bile, intermix with the watery juices, and give the ch\le its ufual milky appearance'. It is of a bright colour in the duodenum, at the firfl entrance of the biliary duCt, and may be feen difiinfUy through the whole length of the fmall inteftines adhering to their villous coat. But the gelatinous juices of fh-fh meats, diluted1 with a large portion of water, and likewife from their own fubvif- cid nature, adhere more particularly to the villous coat, and enter it by abforption. Water and watery liquors are all ve- ry fpeedily abforbed, and yet the feculent remains never grow thick in the fmall intefbnes, as far as Haller has been able to obferve, becaufe the watery part is repaired by the arterial vapour and mucus ; nor do they become foetid in any con- fiderable degree, as well becaufe of the great quantity of di- luting juices, as becaufe the quick progreffion will not allow ' themChap. III. DIGESTION. 349 them time enough for putrefying. Thofe remains, of a more earthy, grofs, and acrid difpofition, which were not re- ceived by the mouths < f the abforbing ladfeals, by their own weight, or by the mufcular contradlion6, defcend flowly into the large intcflines, fo as to complete their whole courlc in the fpace of about twenty-four hours : All the chyle of the alipient, however, is commonly extracted within three or four hours, or a little more. , ' The conliderable length of the fmall inteftine, which is upwards of five times longer than the body, (he great iur- face of the villous membrane increaled by folds, the incre- dible number of exhaling or ablorbent vi flels, the flow courfe of the feces through the large intellines, and the great quan- tity of the inteftinal juice poured into the alimentary mafs, all conduce to the preparation of the chyle ; to its abforp- tion into the ladteals and the melenteric veins ; to the abrter- tion of vifcidities from the intelfine ; to the avoiding adhe- fions and coagulations ; to the deflruction of any acrid dia- thefis ; and to the fubduing any poilonous quality in many juices, which, being directly mixed with the blood, would in- ftantly kill. Hence, in general, the intelfines are long in animals that feed upon hard diet, but lhort in carnivorous ones, and fliortefl in all thole that live upon juices : And, even in man, an uncommon lliortnels of the inreflines has been known to be attended with hunger, and a diicharge of foetid and fluid feces. I he heat by which the aliment is fomented, and which is exceedingly proper for the.folution of the gelatinous matter, and for exciting a beginning putrefaaion, is the principal taufe of the focto.r which is gradually produced in ti e aliment; hence alfo the ufcful part of the aliment, rendered more ‘ fliud, is the better adapted for abforption. The air alfo, in- clofed in the vifeid aliment, operates here, as in the ftomach, by breaking the cohefion of the aliments, if any parts of it yet /DIGESTION. Part VI. 35* yet remain whole. The inteftinal water dilutes the little mafies of aliment •, and if any hard part remains, this liquor foftens it by maceration. The bile being intimately mixed with oil, renders it mifcible with water. What remains, after the chyle has been abftradfed, confifts of fome portion of the bile, become mucilaginous, and dege- nerated; fome part of the human mucilages; molt of the earthy parts of the food ; all thofe parts which, by their acrimony, were rejected by the abforbing mouths of the ladfeals, yet changed by means of putrefaction ; and laltly, all the folid fibres and membranes, whole cohefion was too great to be overcome by the maceration and periftaltic mo- tion in the inteftines. All thefe remains pafs from the extremity of the ileum int® the caecum, in which they are collected. The inteftinal feces, therefore, retained in the beginning of the colon or large inteftine, there grow dry by the abforp- tion of their vapours, fo as to be capable of receiving a figure from the round contradled parts of the colon ; they afcend from the bottom of the caecum elevated by the long liga- ments, which end in the appendix vermiformis. And here the manner in which the feces are propelled by the contrac- tion of the circular fibres, appears better than in the fmall inteftines. The longitudinal fibres of the inteftine, being attached to the contradled parts as fixed points, draw up and dilate the lower parts of the inteftine ; the parts of the in- teftine, to which the feces are next brought, being irritated and contradfed in like manner, are immediately after drawn together by the round and long fibres, by a fucceflive repeti- tion of which the feces finilh their courfe, through the whole large inteftine, in about twenty-four hours in a heal- thy perlon. While the grols feces afcend by the folds or valves of the ilium, the weight of them deprefics the lower fold to the left fide,> Chap. III. DIGESTION. 351 fide, which draws back the ligament common to each valve, in fuch a manner as to comprels and exactly clofe the upper fold downward, that nothing may return back into the ileum ; which might eafily happen in a fluid flate of the feces, if this paflage was not fo accurately Ihut up. The feces, when in danger of falling down from the upper parts, dtprefs the upper valve, and thus accurately exclude themlelves. The feces continue to move.flowly forward, becoming more dry, confident, and figured by the fame caufes, through the whole trad! and repeated flexures of the colon. This intefiine is from five to feven feet long, and it is in general capable of retaining the feces for twenty-four hours, fo as to give no in- terruption to the common affairs of life ; this retention, how- ever, is always proportional to the velocity with which the finall inteftines propel their contents. At length the feces fall into the redtum, which being fituat- ed in the midft of much furrounding fat and cellular fub- flance, eafily expands, and fuffers the excrement to be collec- ted in large quantities, and to be retaihcd for a confiderable time. The firudlure of the reclum differs very much from that of the other inteftines, The external membrane or perito- neum is only fpread before it; while behind it is fupported by a broad ftratum of the cellular fubftance, replete with fat and many conglobate glandules, connecting it all the way to the os facrum. The mufcular fibres are much ftronger and more numerous, efpecially the longitudinal ones, than in the other inteftines; being con.pofed of the three liga- ments, expanded and fpread fir ft over the anterior furface, and then over the whole inteftine; they dilate the inteftine before the advancing feces, and draw it back after the feces are excluded. The tranfverfe fibres are alio ftrong ; and the laft of them are oval, forming a protuberant ring, called the internalDIGESTION. Part VF. 5$2 I internal fphinElery by which the opening of the anus is do- fed. /■ Tde villous coat of the inteftine lias a very rough furface, is extremely porous, and full of reticulated polygonal wrin- kles, and is furnilhed with fome peculiar iit.ules. That part of the inreiline which is next to the fkin or outward opening forms a white firm circle like a valve, into which delcend the longitudinal fi/lds. Between thele folds are iniet ttpted finufes, hollo\v upwards, and of a greater depth towards the lower extremity of the intelline. The mouths of the large mucous glancuhs open into thele cavities ; while the margin of tl>e anu itfelf is defended by lebaceous glandules, It ft it fhould be excoriated by the hard acrid fece*. Whenever, therefore, the feces are colkded within the redum, in luch a quantity as to become trou.slefome by their weight, irritation, or acrimony, they excite an um-afinefs through the adjacent vifeera ; and are then, by the fot'ce of the diaphragm and abdominal mufcles, prtlTed downwards through the inner rim of the pelvis, fo as to urge upon the contents of the lefs refilling bladder and redum. Wfien the refiftance of the ai us is thus overcome, the comprcffing forces of the diaphragm abate, and the feces continue to dif- charge from the body, urged only by the peril!altic motion of the inteftine. After the feces are expelled, the inicltine, by its longitudinal fibres, is drawn back or up into the body j after which, the opening of the anus itfelf is clofely contrad- ed by the two proper fphindtrs as at firft. The feces in men and carnivorous animals are very foetid, almofl putrid, fubal- kaline, foft, and contain much oil intimately mixed with falts, which are left both by the aliments, as well as by the bile and other humours of the human body, An acrid and foetid water returns from the feces into the blood ; hence eoflivenefs in fevers is hurtful, putrefadicn being incrcafed byVol. II. 1 Y y lar Chap. III. H E P A R» 353 by the affufion of the above mentioned matter into the bo- dy § 13. Hepart and Veficula Fellis. Situation, figure, and divifion of the liver. The liver is a large and (olid mafs, of a dark red colour, a little inclined to yellow, fituated immediately under the arch of the dia- phragm, partly in the'right hypochondrium, which it fills al- moft entirely, and partly in the epigafirium, between the ap- pendix enfiformis and fpma dorfi, and terrmn iting co > mon- ly in the left hypochondrium, into which it fometimes runs a confiderable way, The figure of the liver is irregular, it being arched or con- vex on the upper part, unequally concave on the lower, and very thick on the right and back fides. 1 owards the left and anterior fides, its thickneis decreales very much, and termi- nates there by a kind of edge; and it is broader from right to left than from before backwards. The liver may be divided into two-extremities, one great, the other (mall ; two edges, one anterior, and one pofierior ; two fides, one luperior and convex, which is fimooth, poliili- ed, and proportioned to the arch of the diaphragm, and one inferior, concave, and uneven, with feverai eminences ajid deprellions ; of which hereafter. It may likewile be divided into two lateral parts, called lobes; one of which is termed the great r right lobe t -e other the Jmall or left lobe Thele two loDcs are diitmguilhed above by a membranous ligament, and below, very p amly, by a confiderable Iciffure, lying in the fame diredtion with the fu- perior ligament. The eminences on the concave fide of the liver belong to the great lobe, ihe principal eminence is a lort of triar.gu-354 H E P A R. Part VI. lar or pyramidal apophyfis, fituated backward near the great fciffure which diftinguifhes the two lobes. This triangular eminence is termed (imply the fmall lobe of the liver, or lobulus Spigelii, though it was known to (everal anatomifts long before his time. One of its angles advances a confiderable way toward the middle of the lower fide of the great lobe, and is loft there. This angle we cal! the root of the lobulus. Toward the forefide there is another eminence, lefs prominent, but broader •, and to this eminence, and the former, the antients gave the general name of portae. The depreflions on the concave or lower iide of the liver, which deferve our attention, are four in number. The firft is the (ciflure that feparates the two lobes which runs acrofs the concave fide, from the eminences already mentioned, to the anterior edge, where it terminates by a notch of differ- ent depths in diff rent lubjetfts. This is termed the great fciffure of the liver ; and, in fome lubjects, part ot it is an entire tube. The feccnd depreffion is fituated tranlverlely between the two eminences of the great lobe, a:.d filled by the finus of the vena portae, fo called by the antients, becaufe it lies between the eminences of the fan;e name. The third depreffion is backward, between the great lobe and'lobulus Spigelii, a d the vena cava paffes through it. The fourth is a kind of (ulcus, between the lobulus and (mall lobe of the liver, which, in the foetus, fcrved to receive a venal canal loft in adults, in whom it appears only as a kind of ligament. This fnlcus is in f me meafure a continuation of the great fciffure, and joins the vena cava by an acute angle. Befides thefe four depreffion?, there is one on the fore part of the great lobe, in which the veficula fellis is lodged ; an!i it fometimes runs as far as the edge, where it forms a fmall notch. We may likewife reckon among thefe depreffions a fmall fuperficial cavity in the poftt nor and lateral part of the lower fide of the great-lobe, by which it refts on the right kidneyjH E P A R. 355 Chap. III. kidney ; and likewife a f'uperficial cavity in the left lobe, where it runs over the flomach. Laftly, on the poflerior edge of the liver, there is a great finus common to both lobes., which gives paflage to the ipina , I dorli and oelophagus, near the place where 'he vena cava de- fccnd> 5 anu wo iomotiu es meet with lciffurts on both tides of the liver, which are not ordinary. Ligamentj c) the liver. The convex fide of the liver is com- monly connrctcu to the diaphragm by three ligaments, winch are only continuations of the membrai ous lamina of the pe- ritonaeum. One lies near the edge of the extremity of each lobe, and one in the middie ; and they an accordingly term- ed the right, middle, and lejt ligaments Tncre is a cellular fiibftance in the duplicature of each, in which the blood vef- fels and lymphatics run and which lends off a kind of lami- na into the f’ubltance of the liver. The right ligament fometimes connc&s the great lobe to the cartilages of the falle ribs; and the left ligament, or that of the fmall lobe, is often double, and advances toward the middle ligament, 'ibis middle ligament begins below in the great lciliure of the liver, near the eminences called fatae and from thence paffes through the anterior notch, and o\er the convex fide of the liver, at the union of the two lobes, and is lixed obliquely in the diaphragm. It is likewife fixed along the upper and inner part of the vagina of the right mufeuius redhis of the abdomen, in luch an oblique manner, as to be nearer the linea alba below than above. Bolides thefe ligaments, the great lobe of the liver is iike- wi!e con riffled to the right ala of the tendinous portion of the diaphragm, not by a ligament, but by a broad and im- mediate adhefton, without the intervention of the membrane of the peritonaeum, which is erdy folded quite round' this adhtfiou^3S6 H E P A R. Part VI. adhefion, to form the external membrane of all the reft of the body of the liver. This broad adhefion is commonly, though improperly, called ligcimentum corona) mm : But, in the firft place, it is not a ligarm nt, as has been already oblerved ; and, fecondly, it is not circular, but oval, ai d very oblong. Ii is not on the upper part of the convex fide of the liver, but along the poftenor part of the great lobe j the broad ex- tremity of the adhefion lying nearer the notch, and the poin- ted extremity towards the right hypochondrium. The middle ligament, called improperly ligamentum hepatis fjpcnjonum, contains, in its duplicature, a thick white rope, like a round ligament, which was the umbilical vein in the foetus' Thus the lower part reprefents a falx $ the convex edge of which is (harp, and the other rounded. All theie ligaments lerve to keep the liver in its proper fi. tuation, and to hinder i; from inclining too much towards • eith-.r fide: But we mult not imagine that any of them ferve to lufpend it ; becauje it is fufficiently fupported by the fto- niach and inteftines, elpecialjy when they are filled. "When the llomach is empty, or when we faft longer than ordinary, it is a common exprtflion to fay the ftorpach pinch- es us. As the liver is not jthen fuftained by the ftormch and inteftines, it defcends by its own weight, and chiefly by means of the middle ligament, pulls the diaphragm along with it. It is in that place, therefore, that we have this un- eaiy fenfation ; .and not at the luperior orifice of the llomach, as is commonly believed. The right or great lobe of the liver, which lies in the right hypoch rvririum, refts on the right kidney by a fmall luperfi- cial deprefiion above mentioned ; and it likewiie covers a portion of the arch of the colon and the pylorus. About two third parts of the fmall or left lobe lie in the middle of theChap. III. S 5? II E P A R, the epigaftrium, and the remaining third part advances over the ftomach towards the left hypochondrium. '1 his Imall lobe is lituated aim oil: horizontally; the great lobe is very much inclined, and its thick exiremity runs down almoft in a perpendicular direction to the right kidney on which it lies, in the manner already laid. This obferva- tion is of ufe to diftmguifh the differeut parts of the liver in wounds and chirurgical operations. It may likewile ferve to diredl us in examining a liver ta- ken out of the body; the fituation which may be other- wife v,erv eafily mifiaken, efpecially that of the parts of the concave fide. The pafiage of the vena cava, between the body of the great lobe and the lobulus Spigelii, may likewife ferve for a rule in placing a detached liver in its true fitua- tion. Structure of the liver. The liver is compofed of feveral kinds of veflels ; the ramifications cf which are multiplied in an affonifhing manner, and form, by the intertexture of their capillary extremities, an innumerable cohesion offmall pulpy friable corpulcles, which are looked upon to be fo many or- gans defigned to feparate from the mafs of blood a particular fluid, termed the bile. ,( The greateft part of thefe veflels, from one end to the .other, is included in a membranous vagina, called capfula venae portae, or capfula Glijfoni, from an Englifh author who firft delcribed it particularly, about the middle of the laft century. This vagina is commonly confidered as a continuation of the membrane which covers the liver, and which penetrates this fubflance along with the blood-veflels; but Sabatier is of opi- nion that it is a continuation of the cellular membrane which covers the vena portae ventralis. The veflel which carries the blood to the liver is called vena portae, for the reafon already given. In the deferip- tion of the veins, we obferved that the vena portae might beii E P A R. Part VI. 358 be confidered as two large veins, the trunks of which are join- ed endwiie, and lend out branches and ramifications in opj o- fire dircdbons to each other; that one of thele veins is rami- fied in the liver, the other lying without the liver, and lending its branches and ramifications to the vifcera of the abdomen ; and, iaitly, that the fn If ot thele large veins may be termed vena portae he atica the other vena portae •ventralis. Vena portae hepatica The particular trunk oi the vena portae hepatica is htuated trmlverftly between the broad an- terior eminence of the great lobe.of the liver and the root of the lobulus^m a particular failure, and forms what is called theJtnus oJ the vena portae. From this linus five jrincipal branches go out, which are afterwards divided into millions of ramifications through the whole lubllance ot the liver. At this p ace the vena portae lays down the common of- fice ot a vein, and becomes a kind of artery as it enters and is again ramified'in the liver. 1 he extremities of ad thefe ramifications of the trunk of the vena portae hepatica end in tlte pulpy friable corpufcles of the liver. Pori bilarii et duElus hepaiicus. It is in thefe corpufcles that the bile is lecreieu, and it is immediately collected in the fame number of extremities of another kind of vefiels, which unite, by numerous ramifications, into one common trunk. 1 hefe ratnificai ons are termed port bilarii, and the trunk duFlus he- patn us; and the ramifications of thele two kind of vtfleis are mvelfed together by the capfula of the vena portae. Hepatic veins. The blood deprived of this bilious fluid is \ reconveved to the heart by a great number of ven.d ramifi- cations, which afterwards unite into two or three pri: cipal branches, befiides others that are lefi confiderable, that termi- nate in the vena cava, and are all called by the name of vena Joepaiica. The capillary extremities of the ramifications of the vena hepatica, join thole of the vena portae, and accompany them. throughChap. III. 359 H E P A R. through the liver ; and yet the great branches of both veins interfed each other in feveral places. When we cut the liver in dices, it is eafy to diftinguifh in each dice the ramifications of the vena hepatica from thofe of the vena portae; the fird being thinned and larged, and adhering doled to the fubdance of the liver ; whereas thofe of the vena portae, which are inveded by the cellular cipfu- la appear to be a little ruffled when empty ; becaufe the cel- lular capfula fubfides when if is cut but the other veins re- main uniformly open, their ddes adhering to the fubdance of the liver ; befides, thev are accompanied by the branches of the hepatic artery and b'liary duds which do not follow thofe of the vena hepatica : And Sabatier oblerves, that the direc- tion of the branches of the vena hepatica is perpendicular to that of the vena portae. Hepatic artery and nerves. The liver receives from the ar- teria cadiaca a particular branch, termed arter'ui hepatica; which being very fmall when compared with the bulk of that vifeus, feem defigned only for its nourn'hment, and not for the fecretion of the bile The plexus hepaticus, formed by the nervi fympathetici maxi ni et medii, furnifhes a great number of nerves to the fubdance of the liver. The rami- fications of the artery and nervous plexus are incl >ded in the cellular capfula, together with thofe of the vena portae and pori bilarii. The pulfation of this artery has been by fome anafomids taken for that of the capfula, which they fuppofed to be muf. cular ; and by this they h ive endeavoured to explain the ar- terial fundion of the vena portae : But they have not confi- dered that the blood in this vein does not require to be pumped forward ; becaufe fo fwifr a motion would have been prejudicial to the fecretion of the fine oil of the bile, for which a flow and almoft inlenfible motion is nec.efT ry. Cow- per and Santorimas were the fird who doubted of the mulcu- lar36© Part VI. H E P A R. lar nature of the capfula, and they have been followed in this opinion by modern anatomifts. The liver is covered exteriorly by a particular membrane or coat, which is a continuation of the peritonaeum. A membranous or filamentary fubftance likewife runs through this whole vifcus, and connects the ramifications and extre- mities of all its vefTcls to each other. This fubftance feems to be a complicated production of the capfula of the veqa portae, and of the external membrane of the liver. The outer furface of this coat is very fmooth, but its in- ner furface is uneven, confiding of a great number of thin membranous laminae ; between which we obferve very dif- tinctly, numerous lymphatic veflels, on both the convex and concave fides of the liver ; but it is more difficult to trace thofe which accompany the filamentary fubftance through that vifcus. Some of the lympathetic veflels, from the fub- ftance and concave furface of the liver, run in the capfule of Gliflon ; and after paffing through conglobate glands fituated there, they end at laft in the receptaculum chyli, or into fome of the large lafteals ; others, upon the convex furface of the liver, run to the ligamentum fufpenforium, from which they pierce the diaphragm in company with the vena cava, to end in the thoracic dutt. We have already obferved, that the fubftance of the liver is chiefly made up of an infinite number of pulpy friable corpufcles ; each of which is bounded, and in a manner fur- rounded, by a particular expanfion of the capfula Glifloni ; and all thefe expanfions are connected by common fepta, in fome meafure refembling a bee*hive. Thefe corpufcles have feveral angles, efpecially in the in- ner furface of the liver ; but near'the furface they are railed in the form of finall tubercles. Their pulpy texture appears like radiated villi, a l'mall void fpace being left in the middle of each. If /I Chap. III. H E P A R. 361 If we blow through a pipe into the vena portae, vena cava, arteria hepatica, or trunk of the pori bilarii, but efpecially through the two veins, we obferve the liver to fwcll, and the corpufcles near the furface are raifed, and become more fen- fible. If we blow with much force, we burft thefe corpus- cles ; and the air getting between them ancf the external membrane, rail'es it from the fubftance of the liver in blifters. DuElus cholidochus. The dudus hepaticus, or trunk of the pori bilarii, having run a little way, joins another canal, called duel us cyflicus or veftcularis ; becaufe it comes from the veficu- ia fellis, as we (hall fee in the defeription of that organ. Thefe two united duds form a common trunk, named duflus cbolidochus ; becaufe it conveys the bile. This dud having reached the incurvation of the duodenum, infinuates itfelf \ through the coats of that inteftine, and opens into its cavity not by a round papilla, but by an oblong orifice rounded at the upper pdrt, and contracted at the lower like the lpout of an ewer, or like a common tooth-picker. The edges of this orifice are raifed, broad, and plaited, as we may fee by making this portion of the duodenum iwun in clearwater. At the entry of this orifice we fee anoiher fmall opening diftind from it, which is the orifice of the dudus pancreaticus -, of which hereafter. GlifTon was of opinion, that the extremity of the dudus cholidochus was furnifhed with a fphinder of mufcular fibres, which was ca- pable of fhutting the orifice, and of preventing the contents of the duodenum from entering it ; but no fuch dud has been found by others, and the obliquity of the pafTage an- fwers the fame purpofe. Ve/lcula fellis. The gall-bladder is a kind of fmall bag, fliaped like a pear, that is, narrow at one end, and wide at the other. The wide extremity is termed the fundus or bot- tom,, the narrow extremity the nerh, and the middle porfon the body. About one third of the body of the veficula lies Vol. II. Z z 1 in \ H /362 VESICULA FELLIS. Part VI. in a deprefiion on the concave fide of the liver, from the trunk or finus of the vena portae, where the neck is fituated, to the anterior edge of the great lobe, a littdq toward the right fide, where the bottom is placed ; and in fome fubjedls it advances beyond the edge, fo as to oppofe itfelf to the muffles of the abdomen, under the edges of the falfe ribs. Therefore when we hand, the veficula fellis lies in a plane inclined a little from behind forward. When we lie upon the back, it is almort inverted. When we lie on the right fide, the bottom is turned downward, and it is turned upward when we lie on the left fide; and thefe fituations vary accor- ding to the different degrees of each poflure. The gall-bladder is compofed of fcveral coats, the outer- moll of which is a continuation of that which inverts the li- ver, and confequently of the peritonaeum. The under fide of the gall-bladder touches the colon at the beginning of the duodenum, and fometimes at the py- lorus. The fecond coat is find by fome to be flefliy, and made up of two firata, one longitudinal, the other tranfverfe, like that of the ftomach or intefiines ; but, excepting in fome very ro- buft fubjecls, there are fcarcely any mufcular fibres to be feen. A whitilh rtratum is- looked upon as the third coat of the gall-bladder, anfwering to the tunica nervofa of the intertines. The inncrmoll, or fourth coat, has on the infide a great number of reti.cular folds, filled with fmall lacunae, like per- forated papillae, efpecially near the neck of the veficula, where thefe folds are longitudinal, and afterwards form a- kind of finall pylorus, with plaits of the fame nature with thofe in the great one. Thefe lacunae are looked upon to be glands. Sabatier admits only of the firfl: and the lart of thefe coats, aud confiders the intermediate fubftance as being merely cellular and vafcular. ThatChap. III. VESICULA FELL1S. 363 That fide of the body of the veficula which lies next the t 1 liver, is connected to that vifcus by a vaft number of fila- ments, which run a great way into the fubltance of the liver. Among thefe fibres, in fomeanimals, dudts have been obfcrv- ed a long time ago, They are moft numerous near the neck of the veficula, and they are named dtiElus cyjio-hepaticiy or hepatico-cyJUci; but no fuch ducts can be demonftrated in the human body. The neck of the veficula is formed by the contraction of the fmall extremity; and this neck, bending afterwards in a particular manner, produces a narrow canal, named clufiui (yjiicus. This incurvation reprefents, in fome meafure, the head of a bird, of which the cyftic duct, by the gradual di- minution of its diameter, exprefles the beak. This cannot be feen when the liver is extra fitum; and even infitit it is but very imperfectly feen, when, in order to view the con- cave fide, the liver is raifed and thruft too much againit the diaphragm ,; for by thus inverting the liver, the curvature is difordered, and we fee two in the place of one. To fee this curvature in its true natural fituation, the liver is to be raifed but very little,^and the duodenum' left un- touched ; then we mud (loop and look under the liver with- out difordering anjf thing. This incurvation may be of ufe to hinder too precipitate a difeharge of the bile contained in the veficula, which fome fituations of the body might occa- fion. The neck of t’:e veficula is nearly of the fame ftruChtre with the other parts. It has on the infide feveral reticular rugae and fome folds, which appear like fragments of vatvu- lae connivcntes, fituated very near each other, from the neck to the contraction of the cyflic duct. The firlt of thefe folds is broad and large, and almoft circular; the next is more oblique and fmaller in fize, and the reft diminifh in the fame manner. Taken all together, they form a kind of fpi- raL3 <4 Part VI. VESICULA FELLIS. ral flight, which may be feen through the neck on the out- fltle. where it fometimes appears like a fcrew, efpecially when the neck is filled with any fluid. This obfervation is owing to M Hcifter By flirting the neck and duel, we fee all thefe folds very diltinilly, elpecially when we examine them in clear water. When they are viewed in any other manner they eafily de- ceive us, being miftaken for true valves, becaufe of their tranfverle fituation. They may, however, in fome meafure, lupply the place of valves, by hindering the bile from run- ning too fall into the duodenum, and the contents of the duodenum from entering this dudl. The flructure of the biliary dudls appear to be entirely membranous, covered ex- ternally with a thick cellular fiubftance, and lined within by a kind of tunica villola, which is pierced with numerous hole.-, that make it appear like a fieve. Through thefe a mucous humour flows, to lave the dudts from the imprefiion of the bile. And the internal furface of all thefe biliary dudls, that is, of the ductus hepaticus, cyfticus,sand cholido- chus being examined through a microfcope in clear water, ap- pears to be nearly of the lame Itrudlure through their whole extent. The cyftic and hepatic du£ls, do not, in their ordinary and natural fituation, reprelent the capital Greek Y, where they form the dudtus cholidochus. After the incurvation of the neck of the veficula, thefe two duels run very near each other, and they appear to be feparated only by railing up the liver to view them. The fame diforder happens in an inver- ted liver extra fitum ; for then the body of the liver fublides and is flattened, and thereby feparates the dufls ; whereas, in its true fituation, it is very much incurvated, and the dudls 4 \ very ne<m each other. The dudtus cholidochus appears rather to be a continua- tion of the duftus cyfticus, than the common trunk of that and26S VESSELS of the LIVER.' Chap. III. and of the duffus hepaticus ; for this laft duff runs for fome fpace within the fides of the former, before it opens into the cavity, much in the fame manner as the duftus cholidcchus pafles into the duodenum. W inflow has obferved, at the open- ing of the hepatic into the cyitic duft, a fmall loofe valvular membrane, which may hinder the bile from returning out of the uuidus cholidochus into the liepattcus. But later anato- mies ddcriDc only a (harp angle at the meeting of the cyflic and hepatic ducts, fimilar to the bifurcation-of the arteries or veins. • The bile, which pafTes through the duftus hepaticus into the choiidochus, may be called hepatic s and that which is collected in the veflcula fellis, may be termed cyflic. 1 he he- patic bile flows continually through the duftui cholidochus into the duodenum ; whereas the cyftic bile flows only by reafon of plenitude, or by comprefiion. Remarks cn the vej/ils, EsV. oj the liver. The trunk of the vena portae ventralis terminates between the lobulus and the oppofite part of the great lobe ; and there joins the trunk of the vena portae hepatica in the tranfverfe finus of the liver, between the right extremity and the middle of that finus. The umbilical ligament, and confequently the umbilical vein in the foetus, joins the trunk of the vena portae hepa- tica toward the left extremity of the tranfverfe finus of the liver. The canalis venofus in man is not exadlly oppofite the vena umbilicalis, but a little to the right fide ; and there- fore thefe three veflels lie in fuch a direction as to form two oppofite angles, refembling thole of the handle of a wheel or of a fpit. In the foetus, therefore, the blood which comes from the umbilical vein does not run direflly through that contained in the vena porta hepatica in the finus, and from thence into the canalis venofus; but is obliged to turn from left to right, and fo to mix with the blood in the vena portae, before it entersPart VI. VESSELS of the LIVER. 366 enters that canal which opens into the trunk of one of the great hepatic veins of the vena cava near the diaphragm. 1 The hepatic vena portae gives off commonly five large branches into the liver, viz. three from its right extremity into the great lobe, and two from its left extremity into the fmall lobe ; and from the interface between thefe a fmall branch, goes directly to the middle of the convex fide of the liver. The hepatic veins are commonly two or three large branch- es, which go into the trunk of the vena cava by one common opening, elpecially two of them. In the fubftance of the liver, they interfeCt the branches of the hepatic vena portae, and are ramified in all directions, in the manner already ex- plained. The inferior portion of the opening of thefe veins into the vena cava, forms a kind of femilunar valve. Below thefe hepatic veins, the vena cava inferior, in its paflage by the liver, receives feveral other fmall hepatic veins, which feem to have the fame relation to the hepatic artery, as the great veins to the vena portae. , The paflage of the vena cava is through the right portion of the pofterior finus of the liver, and confequently on the fide of the great lobe, which is hollowed at this place lufh- ciently to give paflage to the vein, of which it furrounds a- bout three-fourths, fometimes more, and fometimes the ' whole. • s This paflage anfwers to the interftice between the lobulus and the reft of the great lobe ; and its direction is, in the natural ftate, from below upwards, and a little from left to „right : But, when the liver is viewed extra fitum, and inver- ted, it appears very oblique ; but ftill it ferves as a guide to beginners, who are very apt to be miftaken in examining an inverted liver. The trunk of the great vena portae, the hepatic arteries, the duCtus hepaticus, or trunk of the pori biliarii, and the nerves367 VESSELS of the LIVER. Chap. III. nerves of the plexus hepaticus, form altogether a large bundle before they enter the liver. The trunk of the hepatic vena portae is in the middle of this bundle; the hepatic arteries lie on the right and left Tides of this trunk; the nerves fur- round it on all Tides, and they communicate with the plexus mefentericus Tuperior. Afterwards, the firft branches of the arteries, nerves, and pori biliarii, leave the trunk of the great vein, and join in the fame manner the trunk of the fmall or hepatic vena por- tae, and its ramifications in the capfula Glifioni explained a- bove. All thefe branches of the vena portae, and of the arteries, nerves, and pori biliarii, accompany each other by ramifica- tions through the whole fubfiance of the liver, forming every where fmall fafciculi, in the fame manner as the large bundles were formed by their trunks. Each ramus of the vena por- tae, artery, nerve, and porus biliarus, has a proper vagina, and all the four have a common vagina diftinguiflied from the former cellular Tepta, which are only continuations of the vaginae of both kinds. The convex fide of the common cellular vagina is con- nefled quite round to the fubfiance of the liver by numerous filaments which arife from it, and which form the cellular fubfiance found between the glandular corpufcles. The con- cave fide produces the cellular fepta above mentioned. In this common vagina, the veflels, duffs, and nerves, are difpofed in (uch a manner, as that the rami of the vena portae chiefly fill the cavity of it, and lie in a lateral (filiation. The arterial ramus, and porus biliarus lie together on the fide of the vein, and the nerve is divided into feveral filaments, which run in between the veflels and duffs, and chiefly ac- company the artery and porous biliarius; the venae portae ha- ving by much the feweft. 1 The37® P A N C 11 E A S. Part Vt. verfely. It receives alfo fiime fmall ramifications from the gaftrica major and mclenterica fuperior. 1 he pancreatic veins are ran i of the fplenica, one of the principal branches of the vena portae major or vehtralis. This vena lpienica runs likewiTe along the lower fide of the pancreas near the edge, in a (hallow depreffion formed in the fubllance of the gland. Thcfe veins anfwer to the arteries of the fame name ; and there are hkewife other fmall veins correfponding to the imall arteries, which are productions of the great rneferaica, &cc. The nerves of the pancreas come partly from the plexus heparicus, partly from the plexus iplenicus, and partly from the plexus melentericus fuperior; and it likewife receives fome from the flat ganglion or plexiform intertexture, men- tioned in the defeription of the nerves by the name of the, tranfverfe rope. Tiie pancreatic duct is not only double in fome fubje£ts, as has been Lid, but the collateral branches have communi- cations in form of iflands in feveral places within the body of the pancreas. The pancreatic juice, which is watery, infipid, thin, neither acid nor alkaline, is poured into the fame place into which the bile ddcharges itfeif The quantity of juice fecrcted by the pancreas is uncertain ; but it mult be very confidsrable, if we compare tire bulk or weight of it with that of the falival glands ; tt.an which it is three times larger, and feated in a warmer ph.ee. It is expelled by the iorce of the circu- lating blood, with an alternate preffure from the incumbent and furrounding vifeera ; as the liver, ftomach, fpleen, me- le teric and I, lenfc arteries, and the aorra. The great ufe- fulnefs of this gland may appear from its being found, not on- ly in man hut in ail animals : Nor is its ufe the lefs from the experiment which (hews that a great part of it may be cut out from a robult animal without occafioning death ; be- cause,Ghap. III. LIEN. 37* caufe, in the experiment, a part of the pancreas muff be left with the duodenum. The pancreatic juice IrSms principally of ufe to dilute the vilcid cyfbc juice, to mitigate us acrimory, and mix it with the food. Hence it is poured into a place remote from the cyflic dud as often as there is no cy ft is. Like the reft of the intcflmal humours, this juice dilutes the mafs of aliments, refolves them, and docs every other ofHce of the laliva. §. 15. Lien. Situation, divifion, and figure ofi the fpleen. The fplsen is a bluilh mals lomethmg inclined to red, and of a tong oval figure, being about (even or eight lingers breadth in 1-ngth, and four or live in bircadth, it is of a lortifh fubftance, and is lituated in the left hypochondrium, between the gr<ar ex- tremity of the llomach and the neighbouring f ide ribs, under the'edge of the diaphragm, and above the left kidney. It may be naturally divided into tides, edges, and extremi- ties. It has two lidcs, one external and gent y convex, and one internal, which is irregularly concave; two extremities, one pollerior, which is large. ..nd one anterior, which is lmaller, and more deprived ; two edges, one iupenor, and one inferior, on both winch there are, in feme lubjc&>, j'L- veral inegu tiities. 1 he inner or concave fide is divided hy a longitudinal groove or feifiure, into two | l ines or half fides, one up >er, the other lower; and hy t .is groove, the velTels and nerves enter in human fubjech. The itiperior half fide is broader ar.d more concave than the inferior, being proportioi eti to the convex ty of the great extremity of the llomach I he inferior hair tide lies backward on me left kidney, and for- ward on the colon ; and fomecimes this fide of the fpleen ap- pears to have two fuperficial cavities, one anlwcring to ti e co n=Part VI. LIEN. 372 convexity of the ftomach, the other to that of the colon. The convex fide of the fpleen is turned to the left ribs. It is connected to the ftomach by the vrffels called vafa brevia ; to the extremity, of the pancreas, by ramifications of ; the Iplenic artery and veins ; and to the omentum, by rami- fications which the lame artery and vein fend to the Ipleen, and which run in the longitudinal groove. » It is connected to the edge of the diaphragm by a particu- lar membranous ligament of different breadths in different fubjrtfts, fixed in its convex fide, fometimes near the upper edge fometimes near the lower. '1 his ligament is fituated tranfv ericly with relp (ft to the whole, body, and longitudi- nally with rclpetft to the fize of the Ipleen. In fome fubjefts, it is connrtftrj by other ligaments to the ftomach and colon; bur in all this there are confiderable varities. The figure ot the Ipleen is not always regular, and is as various, as, the fize. Sometimes it has confiderable fciffures both m the tides and edges, and fometimes it has appendices. I have fometimes found a kind of imall diftintft fpleens, more or left lound, and connetfttd feparately to the omentum, at fome diltance fiom the anterior extremity cf the ordinary Ipleen. StruBure of the fpleen. The flru<fture of the fpleen is not ealy to be unto.ded in man ; and it is very different from that ot the fpleens of orutes. Its coverings adhere jro it fo cloftly in man, that it is diffi- cult to dillinguilh the common trom the proper coat ; where- as m fome brutes, iuch as oxen, ihcep, See. nothing is more ealy ; for i’1 animals we find two coats leparated by a cellular lubftance. This covering ieems to be no other-wile a continuation of the peritonaeum than by the intervention of the omentum and u.efocolon and even in man the two coats may be diftinguifhed, where the veffels enter by the longitudinal feiffure. InChap. III. 373 LIEN. In man, the fubfhnce of the fpleen is almoft wholly vnfcu- lar, that is, compoled of the ramifications of all kinds of vel- lels. In oxen, the iubliance of the fpleen is chiefly reticular, and in fheep it is cellular. In oxen and (heep, there are no venal ramifications ; but only open finufes dilpofed like branches, except a fmall portion tf a venal trunk perforated on all (ides, at the extremity of the fpleen. Structure arid u/e of the f leen The fpleen is one of thofe vifeera wlvch fend their blood to the liver. The lituation of it varits with that of the flomach. When the llomach'is en pty, the Ipleen is railed perpendicularly, fo as to place its extremities right up and down ; but when the ftomach is full, the middle curve or arch of the Ipleen ariles upward and forward ; and at the fame time obliges it to change its luna- tion, fo as to lie almofl tranlverfcly with its lower end for- ward, and its upper end backward. Being of a very loft and luoie texture, it grows larger by clifieufion when the llomack is empty, and becomes ids again when it is preffed by the full flomach againft the ribs. Hence the fpleen is found large in thole who die of lingering d'.leafes ; but in thofe who die fudder.ly, and in full health, it is finall. The fpleen defeends with the diaphragm in inlpiration, and afeends again in exfpiration ; and it often varies in its fituation with the colon. Frequently there is a fecond or Ids fpleen placed uo- on the former. The blood vejftls of the fpleen are large, in proportion to its weight. The arterial trunk comes from the coeliac ; the up- per branch of which, proceeding in a ferpentine courfe above and behind the pancreas, to which it gives branches, as well as to the mefocclon, llcmacb, and omentum, is at length in- curvatcd in the dirtdtion of the fulcos cr notch of the Ipleen,’ which it perforates by feveral uiltiixf branches, fuftained by the right extremity of the omentum gaftrecolicum. The denfity of this artery is greater than that of the aorta. The ' iplenic374 Part VL LIEN. fplenic vein, which accompanies the artery, is confiderably fotr r than any other vein ot the body: it forms the princi- pal kft branch of the v< r.a poi tae. Betides thele, the lpieen receives ltnaii arteries irom die great coronary delccnding be- hind the pancreas, and fbmetiti.es from tlie internal haemor- rhoidal. l he vafa brtvia of the lpieen and llomach vve have mentioned elffcwhere ; and its ligaments and mem- branes receive I mall- arterial tw.gs from the lumbar arteries, phrenics. intercoftals, and thole ot the renal capfules. The veins in the lpieen, and thole which join it to the itomach, eomn unicate with the phrenics, and with the veins of the renal iaplules. 'I he lymphatic vejfels of the fpleen arife in the duplicature of the fplenic coat or n embrane, and from thence proceed on to the receptacles of the chyle. They are very evident in calves *, but in men they are rendered ccnfpicuous by blow- ing air undir the membrane, by maceration, or water injec- ted into the arteries. The nerves of the fpleen are very fmall j from whence it is capaole of but little pain, and is very rarely inflamed. They arife from a particular plexus, compofed of the pofle- rior branches of the eighth pair at the ftomach, and of cer- tain branches from the large gangliform plexus, which pro- duces the fplenic trunk of the intercotlal nerve, from whence the branches furround the artery into the fpleen. The fabric of the lpieen appears to be much more funp’e than has been commonly believed ; for it is compofed, both in us and calves, altogether of arteries and veins. The arte- ries are fubdivided into few large branches, but into very nu- merous fmall twigs, which are diffi< ult to fill with injec- tions: Thefe twigs terminate in circles, which afford the fluid a ready paflage into the concomitant veins Thefe cir- cles, with their parallel branches, form roundifh brufli-like pencils, that have been miflaken for gfands; but the injec- tion,LIEN. 375 Chap. III. tion, rightly managed, never efcapes out of the vefiels, nor were any hollow glandules ever oblerved. Every little arte- rial trunk, with the finaller twigs that proceed from it, are each of them furrounded, like the fn'.all vefiels of all the other vifeera, by a very fine celiular Jubilance, but rather Jbfter than is ulual in other parts. 1 he whole of the fpleen is outwardly furrounded by a Angle tend, r membrane, conti- nued from the peritonaeum, and joined to the flelhy part of the fpleen by a thick cellular texture. The J'plecn contains more bio d than the other vifeera ; for it has no mulcles, fat, air vcf£els, or excretory dutfls, ia- terpoied between its blood vefiels. We learn alio from ob- fervation, that the blood of this part Jcarcely ever congeals. It is of a dark brown colour, and by its thinnels, colour, and the great quantity of watr it contains, it may be compared to the blood of a foetus. It abounds with water and a vola- tile fait, but has little oil. The want of an excretory du£t to the fpleen, has occafion- ed the ufe of it to be doubtful and co- troverted. Its fabric feems to lead us to the following, although, perhaps, not all the u!cs of the fpleen A great quantity of blood is carried to the lpleen, and with a flow motion, from the ferpentinc courffi and der.fity of the artery : When the flomach is emp- ty, the blood comes into the lpleen in a grea'er quantity than at any other time : 1 he fpleen being then alfo Ids prefled, the blood feems to ftagnate in it ; and this ffagn.ition is the more probable, both on account of the large capacity of the branches, in companion uith the tru< ks of tt.e artery, and on account of the difficult circulation from the fpleen through the liver. Hence the frequent icirrhofities of the fpleen, and hence the immenle q antiry of blood with wh ch the lpleen is diftended. The blood in the fpleen, which vif- cus is warmed and fomented by the adjacent colon contain- it;a- putrid feces, is relolved, attenuated, and a flumes a pu. trelcentPart VI. lien. 3/6 trefcent ftate, as is evident from its colour and confidence. But the greater fluidity ot the blood may proceed not only horn tins d Solution, but becaule all its watery juices that enter by the artery return alio again by the vein ; for there are no lecretory duffs in the fpleen. Moreover, when the liomach is full of food or flitus, the fpleen is thereby comprefled into a narrower coinpals, again ft the ribs and luperincumbent diaphragm ; by which means the blood, that before was lcarce able to creep along through the fplenic veins, being now prefted out more plentifully, re- turns with a greater celerity towards the liver, where it mixes in the trunk of the porta with the fluggiih blood, replete with oily particles from the omentum and mefentery, which it dilutes, and renders lels apt to ftagnate or congeal: It con- duces alfo to promote a larger fecretion of bile, at a time when that fluid is mod wanted, viz. during digeftion. The fpleen, therefore, feems to prepare the blood for fupplying a fort of watery juice, (probably of a fubalkaline nature, and rendered fomewhar fharp by the remora of the blood) to the bile. Is the Ipleen of a cellular fabric ? Is the blood poured out into thole cells fo as to ftagnate ? or is the blood diluted with feme juice fecreted by peculiar glands ? We fee nothing of this demon Arable by anatomy ; nor does the liquor or wax injeffed ever extravafate into the cellular fubftance, unlefs urged with much'greater violence than nature ever ufes or intended. As to the old quell ion, Whether the fpleen pre- pares an acid to whet or lharpen the.ftomach ; that opinion has been long difearded, as repugiUnt to the nature of all the animal juices. If it be alked, Whether the fpleen be not an ufelefs mafs, a< it might feem to be from the little damage an animal fuftains after it has been cut out ? we anfwer. That a robuft animal, luffering but little injury from the lofs of a part, does not prove it to be ufelefs ; but there are ex- amples, alter fuch an experiment has been made, that the li- ver3.77 OMENTUM, Vol. II. ^ £ ment ©hap. III. ver becomes fwelled, difeafed, and prepares a lefs quantity of bile, and of a darker brown colour ; while the animal is per- petually troubled with flatulencies, gripes, or indigeftion ; all which are to be afcribed to the vitiated nature of the bile, an obftru&ion of the liver, and an imperfect or weak diges- tion ; at the fame time they are confirmed by repeated expe- riments. , t § 16. Omentum and Appendices Fpiploicae. Situation, divifton, and connexion of the omentum., The o- mentum is a large, thin, and fine membranous bag, furround- ed on all fides by numerous portions of fat, which accompa- ny and even inveft the fame number of arteries and veins ad- hering clofely to each other. The greateft part of it refembles a kind of flat purfe, or a fportfman’s empty pouch ; and is (pread more or lefs on all the fmall inteftines from the ftomach to the lower part of the regio umbilicalis. Sometimes it goes down to the lower part of the hypogafirium, and fometimes does not reach beyond the regio epigaflrica. It is commonly plaited or folded in fe« veral places, efpecially between the bands of fit. It is divided into a fuperior and inferior, an anterior and pofterior, and a right and left portion. The fuperior portion is in a manner divided into two borders, one of which is fix- ed along the great curvature or convex fide of the arch of the colon, and the other along the great curvature of the ftomach. 'Ihe commifiure or union of thefc two borders on the right fide, is fixed to the common ligament or adhe. fion of the duodenum and colon, and to the contiguous parts of thefe two inteftines. That on the left fide is fixed to the longitudinal fcifluie of the fpleen, to the extremity of the pancreas, and to the convex fide of the great extremity of the ftomach. it is likewile fixed to the membranous liga-Part VI. 37S O M E N T U M. ment which fuftains the du&us cholidochus, and connects it to the vena portae ventralis. Below thefe adhefions, the other portions, that is, the an- terior, pofterior, two lateral and inferior portions, which lalt is the bottom of fhe facculus-epiploicus, have commonly no fixed connections, bur lie looie between the fore-iide of the cavity of the abdomen and the inteftines. The anterior and pofterior portions are generally called the laminae of the o- mentum ; but as that term is ordinarily employed to exprefs the duplicature of fome compound membrane, it would be more convenient to call them folia, alac, or fome Inch name. Struclure of the omentum. The membrane of. the omen- tum is, through its whole extent, made up of two extremely thin laminae joined by a cellular luhftance, the quantity of which is very confiderable along the blood veffels, which it every where accompanies in broad bands proportioned to the branches and ramifications of thefe veiTels. Thefe cel-, lular bands are more or lei's filled with fit, according to the corpulency of the fu bj eft; and for that reafon 1 have-called them bands or portions 'of fat. . • Little omentum. Befldes this large membranous bag, which I name the great omentum, there is another much finaller, which differ from the large one, not only in iize, but alio in figure, fituation, and connection ;7and this 1 name the little 11 omentum. This final! bag is fixed by its whdle circumference, partly to the Imall curvature of the ftomach, and partly to the ' concave fide of the liver before the iinus of the vena portae, fo as to iurround and contain the prominent portion of the lobulus. The little omentum is thinner and more tranfparet t than the other, and its cavity diminifhes gradually from the cir- cumference to rhe bottom, which in lome fubjecls terminates in feveral finall cavities or fofiulie more or lels pointed. Its flrufhire is much fhe fame tvith that of the great omen- tum* it being compofed of two laminae, with a mixture ofChap. Iir. OMENTUM. 379 of the fame portions of fat, which ate confiderably finer than in the other. We lee from this fituation of the two om nta, that in the fpace left between the lower fide of the llomach, at d upper fide of the melocolon, they have a very bread communica- tion with each other; 10 that if either of them contained in its cavity any fluid, that fluid might rcadiiy get between the ftomach and melocolon, and (o pals into the other big ; Spe- cially when the llomach is empty, and consequently its dtua- tion ealilv changed. Therefore, by means of this interjlice between the flotnach and melocolon, the two omenta form one cavity, winch opens into the cavity of the abdomen by one common orifice, fituated near the comnnfl'ure on the right fide of the great omentum. This orifice is lemilunar or femicircular, and formed by the union cf the two membranous ligaments, whereof one com eels the beginning of the duodenum and neck'of the veficula fellis to the liver ; the other conneds the contiguous portion of the colon to the lame vilcus, anti extends to the pancreas, hrom thence arifes, an incurvatcd border, which luirounds the root of the lobulus, leaving an' opening wide enough to admit the end of the linger. To tiilcover this orifice of the omentum, we need onlv raife a little the great lobe of the liver, and find out the rout of the lobulus, and apply it to a large pipe wrapped round with cotton, wool, or tow, to hinder'the re^rds of the air. Then if we blow gradually, the air wiil influe toe tides of the great omentum, ami give it the appearance of a large blad- der irregularly divided-into lewral irbts or tubercles bv the bands of fat, which appear in this fiate like fo many fraena between the lobes. ’ To be lure of lucceeding in this experiment, the two e- rr.enta mull be in their natural flare, and they mufl be hand- led very gently with the fingers firfi: dipped in oil. it fuc- cecds3So OMENTUM. Part VI. ceeds better in young lean fubje&s, than in old or fat fub- je£b. W >en we touch thefe membranes with dry Angers, they flick to them (o cloiely, as hardly to be leparated without be- ing torn, as we lee by the reticular holes which appear in thole portions of membranes that have been thus handled. In that cafe it is to no purpofe to blow through the natural orifice already mentioned j and it is owing to thefe fmall holes that the membranes of the omentum have been fuppo- fed to be naturally reticular. The membranous laminae of the little omentum are conti- nuous, partly with the external membrane of the liver, partly . with that of the (lomach, and a little with the membrane that lines the neighbouring portion of the diaphragm. Thofc of the great omentum are continued partly with the fame coat of the ftomach, and partly with the external covering of the colon, and confequently with the mefocolon ; and they likewile communicate with the covering of the fpleen. We may fatisfy ourfelves concerning thefe continuations, by making a imall hole in one of the laminae of the omentum near the ftomach, colon, &c and by blowing into that hole, through a pipe well fitted to it; for the air will gradually in- finuate itfelf under the common coats of thefe vifeera ; but, if the parts be dry, they mull be moillened a little before the experiment is made. Appendices epiptoicae. The fatty appendices of the colon and return are confidered by Winflow as a kind of fmall o- menta or appendices epiploicac. They are fituated at diffe- rent defiances, along thefe inteftines, being particular elonga- tions of their, common or external coat. They are of the fame ftructure with the great omenta j and there is a cellular fubftance contained in their duplicature, more or lefs filled with fat, according as the fubjeft is fat or lean. NextOMENTUM. Chap. III. V Next the inteftine, each of them forms a broad thin bafis ; and they terminate by irregular papillae, thicker than their bales Tiiele bales are at firft dilpofed longitudinally ; then obi q iely; and, laflly, more or lets traniyeriely, efpecially near the rettum, and upon that intefiine. Thele appendices are for the mod part fepar^ted from each other : but lome of them which have longitudinal bales com- municate together, the veftiges of thele communications being' very narrow, and not very prominent. By blowing through a fmall hole made in or e of thele appendices, it is inflated like a fmall irregular bladder, and the air pafles under the external coat of the colon or rectum. Betides thefe appendices epiploicae, we obferve, at differ- ent dil'tances, along the colon, between the ligamentary band, which lies hid, and one of the other two, that is, on both lides of the adhelion of the mtfoqolon, leveral adipoie llrat3, which may hkewife be confidered as appendices of the lame nature with the former; but thele flrata are very feldom oblerved between the two apparent ligamentary bands of the colon. Vejftls of the omenturji. The arteries and veins of the great omentum are branches of the gaftricae, and, for that realbn, go by the name of gafiro-epjplokae dixtrae and ftnijlrae. The arteries on the right fide anfwer to the hepatic artery, and thofe on the left fide to the fplenic ; and both communicate with the arteria ventriculi coronaria, and refpedively with the arteriae mefentericae. The gaftro-epiplcic veins anfwer in the fame manner of diftribution to the vena portae. The vefiels of the little omentum come chiefly from the coronariae ventriculi; and thofe of the appendices and ilrata are ramifications from the reticular texture of the arteries and veins of the colon and reflum.SECRETION of the BILE. Part VI. 3$2 £ 17. Secretion of the Blip. 1 1 The /iW, being the largefl' pf all the vifcera, fills tip a very large part of the abdomen in its upper chamber, above the melocolon ; and is (till larger, in proportion, m the foe- tus. It is furrounded on all fides by the neighbouring vifce- ra, and fixed by ligaments in ipch a manner as to be fufpend- ed in the body, with a confiderable degree of firmnds ; yet io as to be allowed a confiderable liberty to move and be va- . • * rioufly agitated, railed, and deprcffed, by the actions of the diaphragm. This large vifcus is fupplied with veffels of various kinds. For, betides the arteries, it has the vena portarmn, which receives all the blood of the ftomach, inteltines, mefentery, fpleen, omentum, and pancreas, by two trunks ■, viz. the tranlverfe fplenic and afcendmg meffnteric; and afterwards by one which is continued with the mefenteries. This is large, compofed of ftrong membranes, and iurroumied with much denfe (hort cellular (ubltauce, derived to it from the , mefentery and fpleen, and adding (trength to its membranes, which are Itrongcr than thofe of the aorta. Many of th.e fmaller veffels and hepatic nerves, which all come together under the denomination of a capfula, are intermixed with this cellular fubfiance. By this the vena portarum is conducted to the liver, and firmly fuftained ; infomuch that the branch- es, being cut, do not collapfe but preferve their round ap- pearance. Each branch of this veffel is divided into many others, again divided and fubdivided, like the arteries, till they at length produce the fmalleff capillaries. In this courle every branch of the vena portarum is accompanied with a concomitant branch of the hepatic artery, creeping upon the furface of the tfein, and upon the contiguous hepatic dutfls, almoft in the fame manner as the bronchial arteries ufually ereepSECRETION of the BILE. 383 Chap. III. creep along the ramifications of the trachea in the lungs: while, in the mean time, both the artery and the vein are connected to the branches of the biliary duds by a thin cel- lular fubllance like a fpider’s web. Some branches go out of the liver, being divided to the ligaments, and inofculating with the furrounding veins. And the fum of the branches in the vena portarum is always greater than the trunk; whence the area of the fedions of all the branches together greatly exceed that of the trunk ; from whence follow a great fridion and refiftance, in the fame manner as in the arteries. The blood brought to the liver by the vena portarum and hepatic artery mud of courle be conveyed back again by fome other veins ; and therefore the extreme branches of the vena portarum and hepatic artery inofculate ultimately into other veins, which are btanches of the cava Thefe branches arife from the whole circumference of the liver, run together to- wards its poflerior gibbous part into branches and trunks, and at laft go off into ten or more large veffels. The greater number of thefe Idler trunks pafs out through the poflerior lobule of the liver, and go to the cava through the fulcus thar lies on the right fide of the lobule, often completed into a circle by a fort of bridge or produdion of the liver ; from whence they afcend together through the diaphragm towards the left fide. Two or three trunks, much larger than the former, are inferted into the cava, clofe to the diaphragm, whole veins they often take in by the way. The branches of the vena cava are, in the adult, generally fewer and lefs than thofe of the vena portarum ; which is an argument that the blood moves quicker, becaufe of the lefs fridion, and of the colledion of the blood into a lefs capacity, by which it is al- ways accelerated when there is a lufllcicnt comprefling force. As to any valves at the openings of thefe brandies into the cava, there are not e which deferve to be regarded. The trunk of the vena cava pafles through the foramen of the diaphragm,Part VL 3*4 SECRETION of the BILE. diaphragm, obtufely quadrangular, and furrounded and ter- minated by mere tendons, fo as to be not eafily changeable. \ Having furmounted this opening of the diaphragm, it then immediately expands into the right auricle. The fmaller veins of the liver creeping about its furface are fent into the phrenics, renals, and azygos ; or, at leaft, there is certainly , a communication between thefe and the hepatic veins coming from the portae. That the blood comes from all parts by the vena portaruu* to the portae, is proved by a ligature, by which any vein be- tween thefe parts and the ligature fwelife; but the porta it- feif, above the ligature, grows flaccid and empty. That it afterwards goes through the liver to’ the cava, appears by anatomical injections, which {hew open and free amftomofes I or communications between the vena portarum and the cava ; and by the common nature of the veins going to the cava. Again, the difficult paflage through the vena portarum, like to that of an artery, together with its remotenefs from the. heart, and the oily or fli ggifh nature of the blood itfeif, oc- eafion the blood to ftagnate, accumulate, and form fcirrhous fwellings in no part cftener than in the liver. This danger however is diminiflied by the motion of the adjacent mufcles, and by refpiration •, but jt is increafed by inadivitv, and by four and vifcid aliments. Hitherto, we have been fpeaking of the adult liver, in which both the umbilical vein and the duCtus venofus are empty and doled up, although they con- tinue to cohere with the left branch of the vena portarum. The nerves of the liver are rather numerous than large ; hence, when wounded or inflameJ, it is capable of no very great pain. The lymphatic vcjfels of the liver are numerous, arifing from all Tides, and p-.fli g into the thoracic duCt. Through the whole lubftance of the liver go bundles of biliary veflels, of branches of the vena portarum, and of the » hepaticSECRETION of the BILE. Chap. III. 3^5 hepatic artery. Each veffcl has its proper cellular texture furrounding it, and ligaments, by which it is tied to its fellow vefTels ; and, laftly, the whole bundle has its cellular texture round it. The branches of the vena cava lie on the outfide of the reft, being lels accurately received into the lame bun- dle. The ultimate fmall branches of the vc a portarum, ca- va, and hepatic artery, together with the bil on duCts, are united together by means of the cellular lu fiance into com- pound clufters, fomewhat relembl ng mulberries, commonly called acini, of ah hexagonal lhape, furround d with a lax cellular texture. In "thele acini, likewife, there are mutual anaftomofes between the portal branches and hepatic artery, with the roots of the vena cava on one fide, and the hrft or- gans of the pori biliarii of the liver on the other tide; which 1-aft inofculations are demonllrated by anatomical injections ; for liquors~inje£ted by the vena portarum return again through the duCtus cholidochus. Many eminent anatomifts have taught, that the fore men- tioned acini are hollow, having arteries and veins Ipread upon their external lurface, and that they depolit the bite mto their cavity, after it has been leereted from the branches of the vena portarum. This opinion they fupporr by arguments taken from comparative-anatomy, thcle amn befng in brutes rounder and more defined than in man ; and from difeales', in which we find cells and round tubercles, filled with lymph, chalk, and various kinds of concreted m* ter l'o this they might have added the thick fluggilh t aru e of the bile irfelf, its fimilarity to mucus, and the analogy of the follicles of the gall-bladder. But greater accuracy in anatomy will not allow any follicles into which the Imall (ecretory v< fieh open ; tor luch follicles would intercept the courle of anatomical injections, and give us the appearance of knots, intermediate between the fecreto- ry vile Is and the biliary pores, which we have never yet been Von. II. 3 C able lSECRETION or ti-ie BILE. Part VI. 3S6 able to fee : for the wax flows immediately int« a cavity, in a continued thread from the vena portarum into the biliary duds, without any interruption or effhfion. Again, a follicu- lar or glandular fabric is not allowable in the liver, from the great length of the biliary duffs. For all follicles depofit their, contents into forrve fpace immediately adjacent; for they are unfit to convey their fecerned fluid to any length, as they deftroy a great part of the velocity impartedby the ur*e- lies. Laftly, the common preffure which we mud fuppofe to be on thcfe acini, would lb crufh them, that no affiftaricc could from thence be brought to promote the morion through the excretory duffs. Concretions and hydatids are formed ' in the cellular fttbftance; arid, laftly, the bile, when fir ft fe- c'reted, is fnfficieotly fluid. Haller is perfuaded that no bile is fepnrated from the he- patic artery ; becaufe the peculiar ftruffure of the vena por- taruin would be ufelefs if it fecreted nothing. Its office in fecretion appears plainly by the continuations of its branches with the biliary duels, in a manner more evident than that cf the artery ; but it appears by experiments, alfo, that the biliary fecretion continues to be carried on after the hepatic artery is tied ; add to this the largcneis of the biliary duffs, in proportion to fo fmall an artery, with the peculiar nature of the blood colleffed in the vena portarum, lo extremely well fitted for the formation of the bile. But in tiie blood cf the hepatic artery, lays Hiller, we can And nothing peculiarly tit for the fecretion of bile, or analogous to its nature. Since, therefore, the vena portarum conveys the blood ready charged with biliary matter, fit to be ferreted in the lead acini, and from thence there is an open free paffiige, without any intermediate follicles, from the ultimate branches of the vena portarum into the beginning roots of the biliary duffs, and that the humours driven into the'vena portarum may eafily choofe this paffiige, the bile will be expelled from thence3*7 Chap. TIT. SECRETION of the BIIX thence by the force of the olood urging behind, as well as by the auxiliary 1< n e f file diaphragm prefling the liver againlf the red of the vifetra in the abJonv u when full; and again, the diaphragm contracted in exfpiration, will force the ode into the larger branches, and latliy into the two irunksof the thtElui bilitirws hepatic uswhich trunks meet together upon the vena portarum, in the tranfvcrle folia or the liver, neat the anonymous lobule. 1 The fabric of this duCt is like that of the inteftlnes, ex- cept that there do not appear to be any muicular fibres. From experiments it appears to be endosved with a moderate degree of irritability. That it is vaitly dilatable, and ex- tremely ieniibie, is lhewn from difeafes. The hepatic duff goes on upon the vena portarum, more to the right than the artery, towards the pancreas ; and then defeendmg obliquely, covered by fotne part of that gland, it goes to she lower part of the fecoi d fl xure of the duode- num, and is infer ted backward about four or five inches from the pylorus, through an oblicjue oblong finus n ade by the pancreatic du£t. into which it oj ens by a narrow orifice-. This firms runs a great way through the iecond cellular co2t of the duodenum obliquely downwtrd ; then it perforates the nervous coat, and goes on again obliquely between it arid the villous coat ; and, iaftly, it opens into a protuberant long -wrinkle ot the duodenum. There is almoit the kun’th of an O inch taken up between the fir It inlcrtion, and the egrils of this duct through the coats, of the duodenum j by a finus which turrbunds ar.d receives "he duftlis cholidochus, in iuch a manner, that when the coats of the inteftme are diftendeii by flatus, or cl. i-Iy contracted by a more violent periflaltic motion, the opening < f the ciuCt mull be corifequenrly com- prelfcd or (hut ; but when the 'ubdenum is relaxed and mo- derately empty, the bile then has a free exit. Any regurgi- tation from the duodenum is hindered by this obliquity ird wrinkling- CHSECRETION or the BILE. Part VI. 388 wnnkling of the dud, for ir may be very eafily prefled toge« ther or clofed ; the regurgitation may alfo be prevented by a fuccrffioR of frelb bile defcending perpendicularly from the liver. Air inflated into the intefline finds no paflage into the dud Jufl at the portae this duct receives from the gall-bladder another lrl canal of the fame k nd, which lies for a good way parallel with it, and is iulerted into it by a very acute angle : This, which is called the cyllic dud, from its or^in, is lomcttmes hrit mcrealed oy another imall dud from the li- ver before us mlertion. The gall-bladder, from which this duct; riles, IS a peculiar receptacle for the bile : Molt animals are furmfhed with it ; lome, 'however, want it, as molt of the fwilt ruhnmg, and many of the herbivorous animals, its fi- tuation, hgure, and texture, has been already defcribed. rl he generality of animals have, between their gall bladder and hvrr, or between the duds’eoming from both, fome pe- culiar openings in the gall-blander, into which fome^duds, origit at ng from the liver, or thehepaticbiliarydud.dll'- charge their contents. In man thefe duds have not been hi- therto dearly demonltrated ; and the gall bladder is ealiiy loolcneo from the liver, without a drop of bile diflilling'cither from it or from the liver. 1 here is alio a thin water in the bladder as often as the cyflic dud is obflruded. '1 he bile flows naturally both out of the bladder and liver, as lor g as there is no impediment in its way; lo that both dud> dwell when that p.iffige is obltruded, and the cyflic lies in a ftraight line with the cholidochus. There is no neceffity for all the bile to be diverted into the gall-blad- der before it fl ws into the duodenum. There is not a per- petual obftacle which hinders the afflux, and peculiarly re- fifts the hepatic bile, and admits the cyflic; the paflage into the dudus cholidochus is larger and flraighter, the dudus cyfticus much lefs than the hepatic, nor is that dud fo well formedChap. III. 3s* SECRETION of the BIIiE. formed for receiving all the bile ; the cholidochus being much larger than the cyflic duff, cannot therefore be made only for the reception of its bile. 1 here are many animals in which the hepatic duff difeharges its contents into the in- teftine without any communica ion with the cvflic. In liv- < . ing animds. even when the cyllic duff is free, the bile ap- pears to defeend into the duodenum in a perpetual current. That the quantity is very coufiderable, appears from the magnitude of the fecretory organ, and the excretory duct, fo many times.larger than the fahval ones, and from difeales, in which four ounces of the cyflic hile have flowed through, an ulcer of the fide daily. The hepatic bile goes into the bladder, as often as there is any obllrutflion in the duodenal flu us, from flitu^ or any other caufe comprefling the end of the duttus cholidochus. Accordingly, we find it extremely full, Whenever the common biliary duff is obflrudted or com- prefled by fome feirrhous tumor, whence the gall bladder is fometimes enlarged beyond all belief; and if the cyflic duff be tied, it fwells between the ligature and hepatic duel ; and in living animals, the hepatic bile vifibly diftils into the wound- ed gall bladder. The retrograde angle, ordireflion of chisduft, is not repugnant to fuch a courfe of the bile ; for a very flight prefiare urges it from the liver into the gall-bladder, and even air may be eafily driven the fame way, rnpre efppcialiy if the duodenum be firfi inflated. There doe^l not feem to be any fort of bile feparated by the gall-bladder itfelf; for whenever the cyflic duct is obftructed by a final! Itone, or a ligature made upon it, we find nothing feparated into the gall-bladder more than the exhaling moifture, and a fmall quantity of infipid mucus fecreted from the follicles. In many animals, we meet with no appearance of any gall biad- der, when at the fame time there is a. plentiful flux of firong, well prepared, and falutary bile difeharged into the inteftines. Again, it does not feem probable, that the cyflic branch390 SECRETION- of the BILE. Part VI. branch of the vena portarum can feparate bile into the gall- bladder ; for that vein in i'felf is a m> re reconductory vrflel: Nor can any be feparated from the hep.uic artery; for it muff be vaftly beyond probability, that fuch a tirorig bile as that of the gall-bladder fhould be fe|'arated from a milder blood than that from which the mild hepatic bile is prepa- red. Laffly, the bile flows alfo from the gall-bladder to the li- ver, and at length returns' into the blood, when its pafiage * into the inteftines is totally intercepted. A latent cauie in the nerves may alfo occafion this regurgitation. This paflage or abforption of the bile into the fyflem is pernicious, and is the occafion of jaundice ; which, when the offending ftones or concretions are removed, is cured by the bile’s tree courfe 1 into the duodenum being reffored, A portion of the hepatic bi|e being received into the gall- bladder, there ftagnates, and is only a little ihak,en by reipi- ration By degrees it there exhales its thinner parts, which, we fee penetrate and filtrate through the adjacent membranes. The remainder being a fluid of an oily fubalkalme nature, digefted in a warm place, grows (harp, rancid, more thick, bitter, and of a high colour : For this is the only difference between the cyffic and hepatic bile ; the later being weaker, lefs bitter, lighter coloured, and of a thinner confidence, while it remains within its proper hepatic duffs. Th.it the difference between them proceeds only from fhgnation, ap- pears from fuch animals as have only a larger pe.rus hepati- cus, inftead of a gallbladder; for here we find the bile, which ftagnates in the larger hepatic pore, is confiderabiy more bitter than that in the fmaller pores of the liver; as, for example, in the elephant. But the gall-bladder gives this particular advantage, that it receives the bile when the flo- lpach, being empty, has. no need for it, that afterwards it may be able to return it in greater plenty, when we princi- pally391 Chap. III. SECRETION of the BILE. pally want it for the digeftionof the aliments now flowing in great quantity into the duodenum. This flow of the bile is quicker, in proportion through the cyltic dudt, as the le&ion of that duft is lefs than the left on of the gall- bladder. The gall bladder hardly touches the ftomach, bur the be- ginning of the defending duodenum. When the flotnach is extremely diflended, and the abdomen very full, it makes a confiderable preflure both upon the liver and duodenum; by which the gall-bladder is prefled, and its bile forced out. Thus the bile flows through a'free pafiage from the gall- bladder into the common du<5t and the duodenum : And-this it does more eafilv in perfons lying on their back ; in which pofture the gall-bladder is inverted, with its bottom upward. Hence it is that the gall-bladder becomes fo full-and turgid after fading. The expullive force of the bile is bur little more than that of the preflure received from the ftomach and diaphragm ; for, as to any mufcular force refiding in the fibres of the proper membrane, which may be thought to contrafl the gall-bladder, it mud be very weak and inconfl- derable. The hepatic bile is always bitter, but the cyftic is more fo ; always vilctd ; of a full yellow colour, with a tin&ure of green ; mifcible, by triture, either with water, oil, or vinous ipirits ; coagulable by mineral acids ; diflfoluble by alkalies, efpecially the volatile ; and extremely well adapted to diflblve oily, refinous, or gummy fubftances; quickly putrefying, and by putrefaction fpontaneoufly degenerating to a mufk like odour. Its chemical analytis, and experiments of mixture with various fubftances, demonllrate, that it contains a large por- tion of water, and a confiderable quantity of inflammable oil, which appears very evidently in gall (tones. The bile, there- fore, is a natural leap ; but of that fort which is made from a volatile faiine lixivium, mixed with oil and water. I his, therefore, being intermixed with the aliment, reduced to a pulp. ISECRETION of the BILE. Fart -VL I -392 pulp, and flowly exprefled from the ftomach by the perifial- tic force of the duodenum’ and preflure of the abdominal mufcles, incorporates them all together•, and the acid or acefcent qualities of the food are in lome meafure thus cor- reCTd, the curd of milk is again diffolvcd by it into a liquid, and the whole mals of aliment inclined more to a putrid al- kaldcent difpofition j it dilTolves the oily matters, fo that they may freely incorporate with the watery parts, and make up an uniform mafs of chyle to enter the lafteals'; the fur- rounding mucus in the inteftines is hereby abfterged and at- tenuated, and their periftaltic motion is excited by its acri- mony; all which offices are confirmed, by obferving the con- trary efteCls from a want or defeat of the bile. Nor is the hej vic bile lufficient to excite the nectffiary motion of the inteftines, if thecyftic is wanting; both which'are of fo much uie and importance to the animal, that we find, by experi- ment, even the ftrongeft animal will perilh in a few days, if the flux of bile to the inteftines be intercepted, by wounding the gall-bladder. The bile defcends flowly along with the alimentary mafs j and having fpent its force, or changed its bittcrnefs by putre- faction, moft of it is afterwards excluded with the feces; but probably lome of the more fubtile, watery, and lefs bitter parts, are again taken up by the abforbents. It returns with difficulty into the ftomach, becaufe of the afcent of the duo- denum, which goes under the ftomach; becaufe of the re- finance it meets with from the valvula pylori •, and becaufe of ' the advancement of the new chyle which the ftomach adds to the former : in man, however, it frequently enters; and always in birds. The bile'is fweet and mild in the foetus ; for in them the'blood feeins not fufficiently charged with ' putrid alkaline vapours, nor are there, any oily or fat fub- ftances ahforOed from,the int-ftines. As the bile is a vifeid fluid, in lazy, inactive, and fat anhftals and men, el'pecially if, fromfchap. III. RENES et URETERES. 393 from grief or any other caufes, the circulation is rendered more languid, it eafily coagulates into an hard, fomewhat re- finous, and often ftony fubftance, inlomuch . that ftones of the gall are much more frequent, as experience teaches us, than thofe of the urinary bladder. Its ufe is manifeft, as, being triturated with the ailments, it diffolves oil, refills aci- dity, and ftimulates the inteftines to contraction. The ufe of the liver, befides fecreting the bile, is manifeft in the foetus.- It feems to tranfmit the blood brought back from the placenta, and to break its force. Even in an adult perfon it has the fame ufe, though lefs manifefily, namely, to retard the return of the blood coming back from the vifcera appointed for preparing the chyle. §. 13. Runes et Ureteres. Situation, figure, and divifioti of the kidneys. The kidneys are two (olid glandular bodies, fituated in the pofterior part of the cavity of the abdomen, on each fide of the 'lumbar vertebrae, between the laft fade ribs and os ilium. The right ■ kidney lies under the great lobe of the liver, and is confe- quently lower than the left, which lies under the fpleen. The figure of the kidneys refembles. that of a large bean, , their circumference being convex on one fide, and concave on the other. The concave fide is turned to the vertebrae, and the convex fide the oppofite way* Their length anfwers to the diftance between the laft falfe rib arid os ilium ; they are about half as broad as they are long, and half as thick as they are broad. In each kidney we obferve a fore and back fide, an upper and lower extremity, a great and (mall curvature, and a con- vexity and concavity. The backfide is broader than the forefide; and the upper extremity is a little broader and more incurvated than the lower. The depreffion in the fmall curvature is oblong and Vol.II. 3 D f uneven, \KIDNEYS and,URETERS. Part VI. 394 uneven, refembling a fious, furrounded by fcveral tubercles ; and, as ir is turned a little toward the forc'd Je, this tide is fomething narrower than the other. Blood vejjcls'of the kidneys. Tire dtfcending aorta and infe- rior vena cava lie between the kidneys, dole to the bodies of the vertebrae and to each other ; the artery being on the ie£t fide, and the vein on the right. The renal artery commonly comes from the fide of the aorta u-vcler'the fuperior mdente- ric artery: That of the left fide has its origin a little hightr and further back, than that of the right l*Je ; and both ha- ving run op’er almoft at right angles, enter the finus of the kidnej', and divide into many branches, which fubdivide into many others frill fmailer. The renal veins have lefs variety than the arter?es. It is feMom we find more than one on each. From each kidney fcveral branches come out, which fcon ur.itb to form a trunk, which ends in the vena cava. Thefe veffirls were by the arttients termed the emulgent arte- ries and veins, but they frequently go under the name of ar- teriae et venae renales. 1 The artery and vein are not of an equal length, and the difFerencedepends on tire lit nation of the aorta' and vena ca- va ; for the left renal artery is fhorter than the right, becaufe the aerta i:es neareft the left kidney *, anJ the left renal vein is longer than the right, becaufe the vena cava lies furtheft from the left kidney. Thefe veiTLds are likewife difpofed in fuch a manner, as that lire veins lie more anteriorly than the arteries j becaufe the aorta lies dole to the fpina dorfi ; whereas the vena cava, which perforates the diaphragm *at feme di fiance from the vertebrae, does net join them till after it has given off the renal veins. Nerves rf the kidneys. Each artery is furrounded by a ner- vous net-work, caned plexus renahs s ^thich furtitfl.es a r w a t number of filaments to the kidneys, that conie partly from the fciniiunar ganglions of the two great fympathetic nerves, and395 Chap. III. KIDNEYS and URETERS. and partly from the plexus hepaticus and fplenicus. This renal plexus fends likewife lonie filaments round the renal veins. ■ Coats of the kidneys. The kidneys are furroundcd by a very loofe membranous and cellular covering, called memhrana adi- pofi; becaufe, in fat perfons, the cells of this fubftance are filled with fat. This was for a long time improperly taken for a duplicators of the peritonaeum ; the true membranous lamina of which covers only the forefide cf the- kidneys, and confequently they lie without the peritonaeum, becaufe-the portion of that membrane which covers them cannot be con- fidered as an entire coat : So that the only common coat they have is the cellular fubftance, which likewife invefts the renal arteries and veins in form of a vagina. The proper coat or membrane of the kidneys is ftrong and denle, and adheres very clofely to their furfa'ce ; for it pene- trates every where by numerous, elongations into the ir fub- ilanc'e, from which it cannot be feparated without tearing. The external furface of this lamina is very fmooth, polifh- ed, and (hining ; and it renders ihe whole furface of the ’kid, ' ney very even and uniform in adults. In children, this con- vex furface is in a manner divided into federal lobes and ru» \ bercles, aimoft as in oxen and calves.- and in grown pcrilms we fomeiimes obferve the lame inequalities. The bluod-vcffels having entered the kidneys, are ramified, every way ; and chele ramifications fend our other capillar7 .rami, which go all the way to the furface, where they ap- pear like irregular liars,'and furnilh the proper membrane of the kidneys. Sometimes thefetwo ramifications penetrate to the menj'orana adipola, and communicate there with the ar- teriae and venae adipolae. The proper membrane having furrounded the kidnev all the way to the finus, joins the vcfTcls at that place, and ac- companies all their ramifications through the body of tec kiJn.’v,Part VI, 395 KTDNEYS and URETERS. kidney, in form of a vagina or capfule, and likewife contri-r butes, in part, to form the pelvis and calices, or infundibula; of which hereafter. We fometimes obferve a confiderable veflel to go in or come out from the c< nvex furface of rhe kidney ; but this is rot common ; and in that cafe there is a depreflion, by which the proper membrane enter?, and communicates with that portion which goes in by the finus. The tunica adipola, or common coat, which likewife in- vefts the great veflels till their entry into the kidneys, does not feem to accompa y them any further, but terminates at the finu% in the intrritices between the ramifications. Si: uBure oj the ktdne\s. We may diflinguifh three kinds of fubttances in t i e kidney ; an exterior fubflance, which is thick, granulated, and in a manner cortical; a middle fub- flanc;, which is med Uary and ra dated, called Jlriaia^fulcata, or tubulans bee ulc it leems to be made up of radiated tubes ; and an inner lubltame, which is 6nly a continuation of the fecond, and terminates on the infide by papillae ; for which reafon it goes under the name of papillaris. Thcf- three fubftances may be feen diftincHy in a kidney cut i co 'wo equal parrs, through the great curvature. The cortical fubltance may be obferved round the whole circum- fen nee; and, by rhe microfcope, we perceive it to be of a fp°' gv, granulated, and waving texture ; all its parts adhe- ring together in a radiated manner. Its colour is a bright whitifh grey. By fine anatomical injections and inflammations, we dis- cover an infinity of fmall capillary veflels, which run in va- rious dir Ctions between and round the different portions of x this fubllance ; and, by the help of a microfcope, we fee / likewife great numbers of fmall red corpufcles more or lefs found, and difpofed almoft like bunches of currants. Thofe ' fmall397 KIDNEYS and URETERS. Chap. III. fmall corpufcles are perhaps only the extremities of, veflels, filled either with blood or with a coloured injection. The other two fubflances, thpt is, the medullary or ftria- ted, and the papillary, are really but one and the fame mafs, of a more- reddilh colour; the convex fide of which riles at Several places into narrow tubercles, lodged in the fame num- ber of cavities or dej reifions. The radiated firiae are after- war'f ontmued to the papillary portion ; and the papillae form, in lo.iue mealure, lo many centres of thefe radii; oppo- fite to tne tubfcrcles. The medullary li.bftance is likewife diftinguifhed from the cortical, by the arterial and venal arches, which lend capilla- ry ramifications cn ali hands; and its colour is more or lefs red. The papillae, which are only a continuation of the medul- lary fubftance, as has been laid, are often a little paler than that fubftance. They are ten or twelve in number, very dif- tinct from each other, refembling the fame number of cones, with very broad bales and obtufe apices. At the point of each papillae we fee, even without a mi- croicope, in a flight depreffion, feveral very fmall holes, through which little drops may be perceived to run when the papillae are comprefied. Thefe are little drops of urine, • which', being filtered, partly in the cortical, partly in the mediillary or tubular fubftance, afterwards pafs through the fubftance of the papillae, and are difeharged by thefe orifi- ces. The pelvis of ihe kidneys. Each papilla lies in- a kind of membranous calix or infundibulum/which opens into a com- mon cavity, called the pelvis. This pelvis is membranous, being of the fame ftrufture with the calices, of which it is a continuation ; an'd its cavity in man is not uniform, but dif- tinguifhed into three portions,' each of which contains a cer- tain number of infundibula or calices, together with the pa-398 Part VI. KIDNEYS and URETERS. pillae which lie therein; and fometimes we find two or three papillae in the fame infundibulum. At the place where thefe infundibula furround the bales of the papillae, they fend productions into the medullary or ra- diated lubltance of the kidney, which accompany the blood- veffels, ami ferve for cap!ides or vaginae to all the vafeuiar arches, both arterial and venal, and to their different ramifi- cations, quite through the cortical fubftance, and as far as the furface of the kidney. Ureters. After the infundibula have contracted in a coni- cal form round the apices of the papillae, each of them forms a fmall fhort tube or gullet, which uniting at different diltan- ecs along the bottom of the finus of the kidney, form three large tubes which go out from the finus, ,in an oblique direc- tion from above downwards, and immediately afterwards unite into one trunk. This trunk becomes a very long canal, called the ureter. In men, the three tubes fupply the place of what is called the pelvis in brutes, and might more properly be called the roots or branches of the ureters than the pelvis; which name would-agree belt to the trunk, as being larger than the reft of the ureter. The ureters are commonly two in number, one for each kidney; but fometimes there are more than two. The {iteration of the trunk, and of the roots and branches of each ureter, with refpeCt to the renal artery and vein, is in the following manner: The artery is in the upper par! of the finus, and partly before the vein. The vein is about the middle, and between the artery and ureter. The ureter is in the lower part, a little behind the vein, and it is partly fur- rounded by one branch of the artery. This difpofition appears plainer near the anterior than near the pofterior fide of the kidney, becaufc this lafl is broader than the former; and we likewife fee there the three branches.390 Chap. III. KIDNEYS and URETERS. the branches of the ureter ^of which the uppermoft is the longeft, and the lowed is the fihorteft, becaul'e of their oblique direc- tion downward. From this defcription, we fee, that in the human kidney there is no other common or uniform pelvis, tut the trunk or head of the ureter, and the three great branches. To have a true idea of their difpofition, we muft imagine that the ureter enters the kidney by the lower part of the oblong iinus ; that it increafes gradually in breadth as it advances 5 and that it is divided into three branches before it enters the fubftance of the kidney. One of thefe branches may be reckoned a direcl conti- nuation of the ureter, and it is longer than the reft, being extended from the lower to the upper part of the finus; and it may be found without much preparation. The other two branches are fhorter, and cannot be well dil'covered without an artificial reparation. The angles between thefe branches at their bales, or at the head of the ureter, are not pointed as thofe of other ramifications, but formed by a round incur- vation, which is generally furrounded by fat. Thefe firft branches of the ureters produce other fmall branches at the bottom of the finus, which are difpofed in pairs. Thele (mall collateral branches extend in breadth, and form the infundibula or calices, in which the papillae are lodged i the great circumference of which produces, in the fubftance of the kidney, the different vaginae of the vafctilar arches and ,of their ramifications. The internal la- mina of the kidney is continued round thefe vaginae j and the external lamina is expanded round the firft branches, •round the trunk, and round all the reft cf the ureter. If the trunk of the ureter be fplit on that fide which is next the vertebrae, and this fedlion be continued to the ex- tremity of the.fuperior branch, we may oblerve, immediately above the trunk, two holes lying near each other, which arePart Vfc KIDNEYS and URETERS. 40O the orifices of the fmall collateral branches and gullets of the infundibula. A little above thefe holes, there are other two very much like them, and fo on all the way to the extremity of the fuperio'r blanch, which terminates likewife by thefe gullets of the infundibula; and in each of thefe gullets we may obferve at leaft the apex of one papilla A fe&ion begun on the convex furface of the kidney, and carried from thence to the trunk of the ureter, difcovers the extent of the papillae very plainly, and likewife the infundi- bula, their gullets, &c.; but it will be difficult to give begin- ners a juft idea of the ftrudture of thefe parts without the other fetftion. The ureters run down obliquely, and with a very fmall degree of inflection, from the kidneys to the lateral parts of the inner or anterior lide of the os lacrum ; and paffing be- tween the rectum and the bladder, they terminate in the laft of thefe vilcera, in the manner that fhall be explained here- after. - ...1 ' They are compofed of three proper coats; the firft of which, that furrounds the reft, is of a whitifh colour, and of a very compadb filamentary texture, being ftretched with dif- ficulty, and appearing like a filamentary fubftance degenerat- ed. The next coat is of a reddilh colour, ftronger than the firft, and is compoled of mufcular fibres, although this has been doubted by fome authors. The innermoft coat is in fome meafure ligamentary, and lined by a very fine membrane, which covers a very delicate reticular texture of veflels, and is moiftened all over by a mu- cilaginous liquor. Befides thefe proper coats, the ureters are inverted by the cellular fubftance of the peritonaeum, the membranous la- mina of which covers likewife about two thirds of their cir- cumference, fometimes more, fometimes lefs, but never fur- rounds them entirely ; So that when they are examined in theirVol. II. 3 E Structure I t Chap. III. GLANDULE RENALES. 401 their natural fituation, they appear like ropes lying behind the peritonaeum, and jutting out more or lels toward the ca- vity of the abdomen, together with that portion of the peri- tonaeum which covers them. All that has been faid about the ftruflure of the ureters, pelvis, arches, flriae, foflulae, and holes at the apex of the papillae, appears moft diftinftly when they are examined in clear water. § 19. Glatidulae Renales, vulgo Capfulae Atrabiliariae. Situation, figure, and fixe of the renal glands, immediately above each kidney lies a glandular body, called by the an- tients capfulae atrabiliariae; by others, capfulae renales, rates fuccenturiati, and glandulae renales ; and they might be pro- perly enough termed glandulae fupra renales. They are fitua- ted on the upper extremity of each kidney a little obliquely, that is, more toward the inner edge and finus" of the kidney, than toward the outer convex edge. Each gland is an oblong body with three fides, three ed- ges, and two points, like an irregular crefcent with its great or convex edge (harp, and the (mall concave edge broad Its length is about two thirds of the greateft breadth of the kid- ney, and the breadth of its middle portion is about one-third of its extent between the two extremities, fometimes more, fometimes lefs. Its colour is a dark yellow. It has one anterior, one polterior, and one lower fide, which laft maybe termed the baits ; and it has one upper, and two lower edges, whereof o^ e is anterior, the other pof- terior. The upper edge may be called the crifia, a d the two lower edgep the labia. One of its extremities i in' r a 1, or turned inward toward the linns of the kidney, the other is external or turned outward t ward the gibbous part of the kidney. The figure of rhts glandular body may 11 k -iv se be compared to that of a cock’s-crmb, or textile top or an helmet.GLANDULE REN ALES. Part VT. 402 Structure of the renal glands. The furface of thefe glands is uneven*, the fore-lide is the broadelt, and the lower lide or balls the narrowed. Along the middle of the anterior fide, a ridge runs from the edge of the inner extremity a lit. tie above the bails, to the point ot the other extremity, and divides this fide into two equal parts, like the middle rib oi the leaf of a tree, and on the lower lide, under the bafts, there is a kind of raphe or future. The arteries or thefe elands come from the arteriae rena- O les and diaphragmaticne, and likewife from the aorta, from the arteria caeliaca, &c. Thefe vciVels are termed the capftlar arteries ; and as they enter the glands, they Item to be invcli- ed by a vagina. l iny are not always derived from the fame fources, neither is their number the lame in all lubjects : and there is commonly a large vein which runs along the ridge. One principal vein returns the blood from each of thefe glands ; tlie right goes into the vena cava, the left pafles in- to the renal vein. The nerves on each lide are tiirmlhed by the neighbouring iemilunar ganglion, and by the renal pie. xus which depends on it. In the infide of thefe capfulae, there is a narrow triangular cavity, the furface of which is hill of Ihort, ltrong villi of a yellowilh colour ; but in children it is reddifli, and of a dark brown in aged people. The lides oi this cavity are connedl- cd by a greater number of filaments ; and they appear to be wholly glandular, that is, to be filled with very line frnall fol- liculous corpufcles. Along the top of the gland thele lides touch each other immediately. In opening this cavity,, we find a granulated or follicubr fubltance, which liiis it alir.oft entirely j and the blood-vciiels are dillributed on this fubftance, as well as on the lides of the cavity. If the faction be begun at the great extremity of the caplula, and be continued through the upper edge, and if tilt lateral portions be afterwards l'eparated, the glandular • bodyChap. IIL GLANDULE REWALES. 403 body appears like a kind of criita, faded from the middle of the bottom of the cavity. l’*m glandular body or nucleus adheres more dofcly to the bottom or bafis of me cavity, than to the two (ides, cfj.»e- cully near the great extremity ; but yet it may be feparated both from the bafis and fiJes, being co mected to them by a gn-at ' umyer of finall lilamcnts. it adnercs lead to the ba- ht near the (mall extremity. The capful, r vein, winch comes ordinarily from the vena renal.s, is much larger than the arteries; and it communi- cates w;:l/ ‘lie iulide of the capfula much irt the fame manner as the vena Iplenica with the cells of the fjdcen, for it may oe inflated uy olowing into part of the capfular cavity, and the air likewitc p.flc» into the vena renalis, &.c. T. ne cavity contains an unclous vifeid liquor, of a yellowifli red colour, which, win, age, changes gradually into a yellow- ifh purple, a dark yellow, and a black yellow : fometn/ cs it it perfectly bisck ; but even then if it be fpread thin on a latge (uiiactj it appeal s yellow, ft is lemctiu.es found not only re .dttn, but mixed with real blood. '1 he tiles of theft renal glands have not yet been tiifeo- vrred \ and all that we know about the liquor contained in them is, that it has (dim hat the appearance of the bile- They are v ry large in the foetus, and diminifh in adults. '1 title i wo phenomena delcrvc our attention. 1 n- . lie lomettmes direct y on the fop of the kidneys, but feidom, ii ever, on the gibbous part. The gland on the right fi e ;■ p .rt:v connected to tne diaphragm, under ana v ry n ar t e - ■••••Ik *» of the great lobe of the Ivor to that u.ulcie. rltni on the lei: lide adheres to the diaphragm b low the fpleen ; and ooth theie coin -ebons are coti:i:,eu to the conti. guous portions of the n let or n.ulcle of the chap ragtn. I hey 2re involved, together with the kidneys, in the membrana a- dipofa, of which a very thni portion infmuates itfelf between theGLANDULE RENALES. Part VI. 4°4 the kidneys and glands, and alio between them and the dia- phragm ; fo that they adnere to both by the intervention of the cellular lubitance, which in lome fubje&s contains a ftra- tum of fat. The venal ridge already mentioned, finks fo deep into the fore-ii e in lome ubjedts, that the upper part of this fide ap. pears tu be leparateu from the lower ■, but this is feen molt dilimdtly when me ..aplula is examined in clear water. When he c plular vein is opened lengthvvife with the point of a lancet, we difeover in it a great many fmall holes, many ol which are only the orifices of the rami of the vein, others are limp'e holes ; and it is perhaps through thefe that the air pafles into the gland, as already mentioned. On the outer lurface of thefe capiulae we obferve a very thin, diftindf coat, leparated from the cellular fubftance that furrounds them. Sometimes this coat is railed by an uneven flratum of fat, which makes it appear granulated ; and, for the fame reafon, the capiulae are of a pale colour like a cor- pus adipofum. The liquor contained in them appears fometimes, in the foetus, and in young children, of a bluilh colour inclined to red. To be able to difeover the ufes of thefe capfulae, we muff not only a’tend to the two circumftances already mentioned, but alfo to their external conformation, which is commonly more regular in the foetus and in children than in adults and old people- We mull likewife confider the conlifience and folidity of their fubfiance *, which is greater before birth, and in childhood, than in adva, ced old age; in which they are often very flaccid, and very much decayed ; and this perhaps may be the realon why lome of the figures given of thefe glands, taken out of their membrana adipola, are fo very irre- gular and different from others. CHAP.Chap. IV. VESICA URINARIA. 405. CHAP. IV. Of the Pelvis. § I. Vtfica Urinaria. Situation, figure, and divifion of the bladder. 1 THE bladder is a kind of membranous and flefhy pouch or bottle, capable of dilatation and contraction, fitua- ted in the lower part of the abdomen immediately behind the fymph)lis of the ofTi pubis, and oppofite to the beginning of the inteftir.um rectum. The figure of it is nearly that of a lhort oval. It is broader on the fore and back fidcs than'on the lateral parts; rounder above than below, wh^n empty ; and broader below than above, when full. It is divided into the body, neck, and bottom; into an an- terior, pofterior, and two lateral parts. The upper part is termed the fundus or bottom ; and the neck is a portion of the lower part, which is contracted like the mouth of fome vef- fels. Structure of the bladder. The bladder is made up of fevernl coats, almoft like the itomach. That part of the external coat which covers the upper, pofterior, and lateral tides of the bladder, is the true lamina or membrane of the perito- naeum ; and the reft of it is f'urrounded by a cellular fub- ftance, by the intervention of which, the peritonaeum is con- nected to the mufcular coat. The proper coats are three in number; one mufcular, one cellular, and an internal fmooth one commonly called villous teat. The mufcular coat is compofed of feveral ftrata of flelhy , fibres;406 vestca URINARIA. Part VL fibres; the outermoft of which are mollly longitudinal ; the next to theie are more inclined toward each fide; and the mnermoit more and more oblique; and they become at length almoft tranlverle. All theie fibres imerlect each otjier in various manners; and they are con-ieiftcd together by a fine cel ular fubttunce, and may be lep rated by inflating that fubftance. Rou d the neck of the bladder the mufeuhr fibres are cb’h ly connected, and form what has been called Jphinilet i>e- Jiciie but this part is not a diiiinft rnulcle, nor is its aCtion dilhnct from, the reft of the muicul.tr coat The cellul r coat is nearly of the lame ftrucfture with what is called the tunica nervo/a of the ftomacli. The internal cua is iomething granmated and glandular, fays Winflow ; but later anatomifts deny ilie exiftence of glands here. A mucilaginous ierum is contmu Uy ddcharged through it, which moiftens tne inner luruce of the bladder, and defends it againft the acrimony of the urine. It appears fometimes altogether uneven on the inner tide, bcit.g rud of eminences and irregular rugae when empty, and in its natu- ral ftate of contraction. i hefe inequalities ci:fappear when the bladder is full, or when it is artificially dittended by air, or by injecting any liquid. U/acbus. At the top of the bladder above the fyinphyfis* of the ofia pubis, we oblerve a ligamentary rope, which runs up between the peritonaeum and tire linea alba < f the abdo- men, all the way to the navel, dnninifhing gradually in thick- neis as it afeends. This rope in the foetus is impart a pro- duction of the inner coats of the bladder, which production is termed urachus. Arteriae umbiitcales. This rope is compofed likewife of two other ligainentary elongations, which are the extremities of ( the umbilical arteries. Thefe arteries come from the hypo- gaftricae, run up by the fides of the bladder, and remain hol- ' lowVESICA URINARIA. 407 Chap. IV. low and filled with blood, even in adults, as high as the middle of the bladder, through all which fpace they likewife fend off ramifications. Afterwards they lole their cavity, and become ligamentary as they afcend. At the upper part of the bladder they approach each other; and joining the urachus, form that'rope, which may be termed the fuperior li- gament of the bladder The external fibres of the fnufcular coat are more nume- rous than the internal; and the moll longitudinal anterior fibres form a kind of incurvation round the uracht s at the * top of the bladder, much like that of one of the flelhy por- tions which furround the iuper.'jr orifice of the Itoniach, and lower extremity of the oefophagus. This incurvation paffes behind the urachus. V The portion of the peritonaeum which covers the pofterior ' convex fide of the bladder, f rms a very pro inent tranfi. verfie fold, when the bladder is contncied, which difappears when the bladder is extended. This fold furrounds the pos- terior half of the bladder, and its two extremities are elonga- ted towards each fide ; by which elongations, a kind of 1 te- ral ligaments of the «,ody of the bladder are formed, which are more confiderabie in children than in adults. Befides thefe, the bladder has two other ligaments, which are fixed at their fore part to the upper and inner fide of the nffi pu- bis, near the iymphyfis of tilde two bones; from whence they run buck, becoming gradually broader, to be fixed to the fidcs of the bladder. .Sabatier calls them the inferior an- terior ligaments of the bladder. The lower part of the bladder, which deferves the name of fundus much better than the upper part, is perrorated by three openings, one anterior, and two poltenor The ante- rior opening is formed by an elongation of all the proper coats, in form of a guiler, turned much in the fame manner with the inner orifice of the roilrum of the head of an alem- bic.408 Fart VL VESICA URINARIA. bic. 1 his elongation is called the neck of the bladder, the def- criptio-n of which belongs to that of the parts of generation in men. The other two openipgs in the true fundus of the bladder, are formed by the ureters, which in their courfe downward, already defcribed, run behind the fpermatic veflcls, and then behind the lower part of the bladder, approaching each other. Each ureter lies between the umbilical artery and vas defe- rens of the fame fide ; the artery lying on the outfide of the ureter, and the vas deferens on the infide. Afterwards they get between the vala deferentid and the bladder, eroding thefe cana.r ; aud then, at about a finger’s breadth front each other, they begin to pierce the coats of the bladder. They run a little way between the mufcular and nervous coats, and open into the bladder obliquely, fome- thing nearer each other than when they firft entered the coats. The orifices of the ureters in the bladder are fomething oval, and narrower than the cavity of the ureters immediate- ly above them. The edge of thele orifices is very thin, and f'eems to be formed merely by the umcn of the internal coat of the bladder with that of the ureters. Blood veffels and nerves of the bladder. The arteries of the bladder are furnifhed by the hypogaffricae or iliacae internae, being rami of the arteria fciatica, epigaftrica, and umbilicalis ^ • / • on each fide. The veins return to the internal iliac veins. The nerves of the bladder come from the crurales, and al- fo from the fympathetici maximi, by means of their commu- nication with the crurales. It has likewife fome nerves from the plexus mefentericus inferior. Befides the ligaments already mentioned, there are like- wife two (mall ones, by which the anterior part of the true fundus i f the bladder is connected to the ofia pubis, which ihail be dclcribed with the neck and fphm£ter, after the hif- toryChap. IV. SECRETION of URINE. 409 tory of the parts of generation in both Texes; and we refer to the fame place, all that relates to the connection of the bladder with the other neighbouring parts. t f j 2. Secretion of Urine. The chyle, when it enters the blood, contains a very large portion of water, which would be liable to lodge in the cel- lular fubftance, if it was not expelled again from the body. A part of it is therefore exhaled through the Ikin ; and ano- ther part, as large, or often larger than the former, is (train- ed through the kidneys, and is thus expelled out of the body. Dr Halier obferved, “ that the blood of the renal arterv moving (lower, as is generally believed, than that of the brain, and probably ftored with more water, brought by the Terpentine circles of the arteries, drpofkes great part of its wa- ter into the rectilineal tubes of the papillae. This water con- tains fine oils and halts, intermixed with earthy particles, or foch other matters as are thin enough to pafs through with it. The fmall diameter of the origin of each uriniferous duCt, and-its firm refifhnce,Jfeems to exclude the thick oil, chyle, and the coagulable lymph ; but, asthcle uriniferous ducks are always open, if the velocity of the blood be increafed, or a morbid laxity of the parts fupervenes, they eafily tranfmit the above mentioned thick parts of the blood along with the thinner. The difeale hence arifing, is called diabetes, which may be cured by reftoring the kidneys to their former healthy Hate, by the tile of aftringents and tonics. The nerves have Come power of contracting or relaxing thefe paflages ; and thus we lee that urine, which, in health, is of a yellow colour, becomes watery from Hidden grief. A vaft: quantity of it is prepared ; equal to that of perforation, and lbnietimes even more." Later phyfiologrfts explain the fecretion of urine by Vol. II. 3 F oblcrving,4io SECRETION of URINE. Part VL , / ~ * obferving, tHat part of the blood is changed by the kidney - into this fluid. The urine, by lire or putrefaction, fometimes by difeafe, in fomc animals more eafily than in others, changes into a volatile alkaline nature, intimately mixed with a fetid oil. This oil which is partly empyreumatic, yellow, volatile, te- nacious, feparable only by the greateft degrees of fire, is known by the denomination of phofphorus •, it is a fhining fubftance, taking fire fpontaneoufly in the air. The urine abounds more with earth than any other juice of the human body, both of a cretaceous and fparry nature; the latter com- ing chiefly from the drink, the former from the folid parts of the body diflolved and mixed with the blood. There is al- fo a confiderable proportion of fea-falt in frefh urine ; from which it is even feparable after a long putrefaction, in the making of phofphorus; in which procefs a very great part of the urine is changed into volatile alkali. Nor is the urine, both of men and brutes, wholly deftitute of a vitriolic acid, or at leaf! a fimilar acid. There is likewife in the frefh urine a fufible cooling fait, fimilar to nitre. In fevers, the oily and faline parts of the urine are greatly augmented, both in quan- tity and acrimony. lhat the urine is feparated in the kidneys is (hewn experi- mentally, by preffing it out of their veflels. That it defcends by the ureters is (hewn by the furprifing fwelling of the kid- ney, and that part of the ureter which is above, as well as the emptinels of that part which is below the ligature. In the bladder al('o, as well as in the kidneys and ureters, there is an immenfe 1 welling as often as the bladder cannot receive the urine, or cannot emit it. Nor does there feem to be any other way for the urine to pafs. F- r, although it is certain that the fiomach, like all other membranes,’exhales a moifture through its coats; though it is rot improbable, from experiments, that the blad-Chap. IV. 4ir SECRETION of URINE. der alfo abforbs; and although the paflage of mineral Spaw waters, by urine, be extremely quick ; yet it does not thence follow that there mult be ways, different from that of the u- reters, to convey the water from the food to the bladder. For the bladder is, on all tides, fc-parated from the cavity of the abdomen by the peritonaeum ; nor is it probable that the vapours, which either go out from the bladder, or which are derived towards it from other parts, can here find open pores through the peritonaeum. Betides, membranes, when wet, have their pores filled, and confequently are lets adapted for imbibing either vapours or fluids. The bladder may be fo diftended with urine as to produce death ; yet, in thefe cafes, we never obferve that the urine has found any paflage through which it might efcape into the pelvis. Again, when the u- reters are obftrudted with ftones, fo that t'he bladder receives nothing from them, it is either quite empty, or contains a very acrimonious and thick urine, manifeitly indicating that the water can find no other way from the kidney into the bladder. And a careful attention to the manner in which mineral waters are dilcharged by urine, fufficiently demon- ftrates that there is no fuch rapidity therein as is commonly imagined ; but the ftimulus of the cold water received into the ftomaeh, like the external cold applied to the Ikin, cau- fes a concuflion of the bladder and urinary parts, by which they are follicited to repeated difcharges of the old urine ‘which was before in the body, and not immediately of that which was lalt drank. Again, the largenefs of the renal vef- fels demonftrates, that they cannot receive much lels than an eight part of the blood of the whole body at a time, and confequently above iooo ounces of blood are conveyed through the kidneys in an hour ; and it will appear but a moderate allowance for 20 or even 50 ounces of water to diftil from that quantity of blood in the fame time. Finally, it is cer- tain that both men and brute animals perilh if the ureters areI 4* * , S C R O T U M. Fart VL are obflruCted by a ligature, or otherways ; we then obferve alfo that no urine can be found in the bladder. Experience allures us that the urine Hows into the bladder in a continued ft ream : By flaying fome time in the biadd er, and from the absorption of the more watery part, the urine acquires an higher colour, and becomes lharper. We are not fully acquainted with the caufe which retains the urine in the bladder. The fphinckr is obfeure ; the fituation of the bladder lying on the refttim may probably contribute to the retention of the urine. ' Certain it is that the urine does not flow fpontaneoufly, even from a dead carcafe. .At length, by the-buik and acrimony of the urine irrita- ting thedenfible fabric of the bladder, it is thence expelled, partly by the motion of the diaphragm and abdominal mul- cles prefiing the inteftincs againft: the bladder, by .which means, efpecially in an ereCt pofture, the urine makes itlelf a way through the narrow and impeded paflage ; and partly by the perjflaltic motion of the bladder itlelf, ariling from the contraction of its mufeuhr fibres. By the urine, befides the particles of food and water, much matter that is noxious to the human body feems to pafs ofl, efpecially calcareous earth relorbed from the bones and folid parts, and which would not fail to produce bony crufts and calculi wherever it vCas flopped ; a fparry or gypfeous earth ; ai d an acrid oil mixed with lalt, fo as to afiume a volatile na- ture. The urine, by its retention, difpofes to the generation of the ftoneand gout ; when fiipprefied, it produces acute fevers, and feveral mbrbid afleflions of the brain. § 3 The Parts of Generation in Males Situation in general, and divifion of thefe parts. The parts of generation in males are of'different kinds, fome of them being wholly contained in the abdomen, and others lying • withoutSCROTUM. 413 Chap. IV. The \ without it. From this fituation, they might properly enough be divided into external and internal parts; and all thofe be- longing to the firfl clals might be defcribed before thofe of the fecond. But, as it is Bill more proper to have a regard to the oeco- noiny of thefe parts, according to which their functions be- gin in fome internal parts, are continued in fome external parts, return again to the internal, and are finifhed in the external; we fliall follow the fame order in delcribing them. The firfl of thele four clafles comprehends the fpermatic veins and arteries ; the fecond, the teftes, epidydimis, and fcrotum ; the third, the vaia deferentia, veliculae feminales, and probates ; and the fourth, the corpora cavernofa, ure- thra, integuments. See. Scrotum. The fcrotum is the cutaneous covering of the telles. Outwardly, it is a bag common to both, formed by a continuation cf the fkin of the neighbouring parts, and com- monly very uneven, having a great number of rugae on its outer furface. Interiorly, it is flcfhy, and forms a mufcular capfula for each teBicle, termed dartos The exterior or cutaneous portion of the fcrotum is nearly of the fame Bructure with the fkin in general, of which it is a continuation j only it is iomething finer ; and it is likewife plentifully Bored with febaceous glands and'Fiedbs of roots of hairs. Though it is a common covering for both teBicles, it is neverthclefs diBingudhed into two lateral parts by a fuperfi- cial and uneven prominent line, which appears-like a kind of future, and from thence has been termed raphe. This line is a continuation of that which divides, in the fame manner, the cutaneous covering of the penis ; and it is continued through the perinaeum, which it divides likewife all the way to the anus. It is only fuperficial, and does not appear on the inlide of the fkin.4*4 Part Vl, SCROTUM. i The The inner furface of this cutaneous bag is lined by a very thin cellular membrane, through which the bulbs and glands appear very diftin&ly when we view its infide. The rugae of the fcrotum are in the natural hate commonly a mark of health, and then its fize is not very large, it increafes in fize, chiefly according to its length ; and then the rugae dis- appear more or lefs, according to the degrees of the preter- natural ftate or indifpofition. The dartos of the fcrotum has been accounted a true cuta-r neous mufcle; but it is chiefly a cellular fubflance condenfed, with a great number of blood-veflels entering into its compo- sition, but without fat. This fubflance is thin, and by the difpofition of its fibres, forms a bag with two cavities, or two frnall bags joined laterally to each other, and contained with- in the cutaneous portion. The lateral parts of thefe two bags, which are turned from each other, are longer than thole which are joined together ; and by this union a feptum is formed between the teftes* which may be called mediajlinum fcroti. The raphe or future already mentioned, adheres to the edce of this feptum, and thereby braces down the middle of the cutaneous portion, which from thence appears to have in part two cavities *, a#id this was perhaps what gave occafion to make the French word for the fcrotum to be in the plu- ral number. The other edge of the feptum adheres to the urethra. The dartosTias a ftri£l connexion with the reft of the cel- lular fubflance, efpecially at the upper part below the groin, where its anterior and external lateral portions terminate by a kind of tendinous or ligamentary expanfion, which is ftron°ly united to the internal cellular membrane. We have often fhewn this as a particular fafcia lata, which gives in- fertion to the portions of the dartos juft mentioned, and as a broad fraenum which keeps the fame portions together.TESTES. 4»5 Chap. IV. The rl he aponeurotic or ligamentary expanGon of the dartos is fixed in the ramus of the os pubis, between the mufculus tri- ceps and the origin of the corpus cavernofum of the fame ' fide, which lliall be detcribed hereafter, all the-way to the lower part of the fymphyfis of thefe bones. The internal pomon of thele u.ufcular bags, or that which forms the fep- tum Icroti, is fixed to the urethra by means of a communi- cation between the lame ligament^ry expunlion, and another, which (hall be explained in its proper place. Coats of the tijles. The particular coverings of the teftes are commonly called coats and they are reckoned to be three in number, the tunica mulculola, named cremnjlcr, vagi- nalis, ai d albuginea. The firll two are common to each tefticle, and to the fpermatic rope that belongs to it ; and the third is peculiar to rhe tefiicle alone. The tunica vaginalis is the moll confiderable of the three, and mull be deferibed firll, in order to conceive the ftrudlure and conne xion of the cremalter, which is very improperly called a coat. The albuginea lliall be deferibed with- the tefles. The tunica vaginalis is a continuation of the vagina of the fpermatic rope, which, as it approaches the tefticle, is gra- dually dilated, and forms two capfulae, one contained with- in the other, the external being the longeft and broadeft at bottom ; fo that there is a void fpace there left between them, in which the tefticle is lodged. This ftru&ure may likewife be explained in the following manner : The vagina having reached as low as the tefticle, is divided into two laminae, the innermoft of which is the bottom of the vagina, and the outermoft is expanded round the tefticle, and gives it a coat, called vaginalis, from the Latin word vagina. The antients termed it likewife clytroides from a Greek word that fignifies the fame thing.4io Part VI. TESTES. i The inner furface of this coat is lined by a fine membrane, which ftrengthens the bottom of the vagina, and forms a kind of diaphragm, which prevents all communication be- tween the vagina of the i'permatic rope, and the tunica vagi- nalis of the tefticle. Cremajler. The cremafter, improperly termed a caat, is a thin muicle or flclhy plane, which runs down round the va- gina of the fpermatic rope, and terminates in the tunica va- ginalis of the tefticle. It furrounds almoft the whole vagina, and afterwards ex- pands itfelf on the upper and external part of the tunica va- ginalis, in which it is inferted and loll. It arifes partly from the ligamentum Fallopii, but chiefly from the lower edge of the internal oblique mufcle of the ab- domen. It is covered by a very fine cellular membrane, detached from the outfide of the aponeurofis of the obliquus externus, round the opening commonly called the ring. This mem- brane is loft in the cellular fubftauce of the inftde of the dartos. From all this we fee, that the cremafter is rather a tufcle of the tunica vaginalis than a particular coat. Thofe among the antients who believed it to be a coat, called it tunica ery- throides, from a Greek word which iigniiies red; but this muicle is not always red, neither is that colour elfemially neceflary to a flefhy fubftance. Tcjlcs. The teftes are two glandular bodies, fkuated near each other, without the abdomen, below the interftice between the groins in an adult. The antients named them didymi or gemini. Their flze is nearly that of a pigeon’s egg, and they are of an oval figure, a little flated at each fide. But they are frequently unequal in flze in the fame perfon. Fabricius ab Aquapender.te, was confulted freque .ly by perfbns who believed they had got a difeafed tefticle, bccaufe it was larger thanVol II. The Chap. IV. TESTES 4i 1 than the other one ; but, upop examination, it was found they had no inconvenience from it. We may confider in each tellicle two extremities, two edges, and two Tides. One extremity is fituated forward and a little upward, the other backward, and a little downward ; and their edges lie up- ward and downward. At the upper edge they have each an appendix, called epi- dydimis, together with which it is involved in leveral cover- ings ; and they are both fulpended in the common covering, called the fcrotum. Each tellicle is a fpermatic gland formed by a vail num- ber of fine whitifh tubes, folded and twilled in different man- ners, and diftributed in different fafciculi, between membra- nous fepta ; the whole being furrounded by a llrong common covering, named tunica albuginea. Thefe fepta are difpofed longitudinally, divaricating from each other on one fide, arid approaching on the other. I hey approach each other along one edge of thd tellicle, and ter- minate in a long narrow whitilh body, as in a kind of axis. From thence they divaricate in a regular manner, and are fixed by their oppofite edges in the inner lurface of the tu- nica albuginea, of which they appear to be a continuation. This white body may be termed the nucleus of the tellicle, or by fome has got the name of corpus Highmorianum From this defcription we fee, that all thefe fepta are not of an equal breadth; that the interllices between them are in .fome meafure triangular ; and that the extent of the lmall tubes, which lie therein, mull be very confiderable. They have be^n reckoned to amount to many yards, by taking the fum of all their feveral portions ; and they may be eafily un- folded by a long maceration, which dellroys the delicate fub- fiance by which all their folds and convolutions are connefl- ed and tied down.EPIDYDIMIS. 41* Part VI. \ The feminal veflels are Terpentine, firm,, folid, and exceed- ingly fmall ; they have been tilled with quickfilver, &c. by feveral anatomifts, and fir ft by Dr Monro, Hunter, and Hal- ler. They are collected into above twenty bundles, divided by diftinft cells or partitions, -vyhich defcend from the trnica albuginea to conduct the arteries or veins. In each of thefe cells there is a feminiferous duel to convey the fecreted hu- mour from the tefticle. The du£ls form a net-work, adher- ing to the furface of the albuginea, and forming inofculations one with another. From this net-work, in the upper part of the teflicle, ten or twelve ducts afeend ; which being con- torted together into folds, form as many vafcular cones, that are joined together by an intermediate cellular fubflance ; and, lying incumbent one upon another, there form the Epidydimis,/which goes round the outer a'nd polterior mar- gin of the teflicle, to which it adheres by its thicker head, joined with a good deal of cellular fubflance : While in its lower, middle, and more flender pirt, it partly adheres, and is partly free ; fo as to intercept a fort of impervious bag be- tween itfelf and the tefticle. The vafcular cones, at the up- per part of the epidydimis, by degrees uniting, form at length one dudl, which compofes the greater part of the tef- ticle (fe Monro de Teftibm), and which grows larger as it defeends, being largefl at the bottom of the teflicle ; from whence again alcending along the poflerior face of the tef- ticle, in a contrary diredlion, it by degrees fpreads open its fpi- ral convolutions, and comes out much larger, under the name -of vas deferens. The epidydimis thus formed, may be reckoned a produc- tion of the.teflicle, or a kind of t eft is acceffonus ; and it re- ferubles in fome meafure an arch fupported by its centre or frame It is more contrafled at the middle than at the ex- tremities, by which it is clofely united to thofc of the tefticle. BetweenChap. IV. SPERMATrc VESSELS. 419 Between its extremities it does not immediately touch the tefticle; but is only loofely connected to it by the duplica- ture of a very fine and almofl tranfpurent membrane, as by a kind of ligament. This membrane is the conr'nuation and dupl.cature of the tunica albuginea, or proper coat ot the tefticle; which having lupplicd the place ot a ligament to the epidydirnis, afterwards inverts it. The epidydirnis is flat, a little concave on the under fide or that next the tefticle, irregul rly convex on the upper tide or that turned from the tefticle : and thefe two lides are di- ftinguilheci by two angular edges j by the innermoft of which it is connected to the tefticle in the manner already'faid, but the outer edge and flat fide' are loofe and free. Befides the duffs commonly defcribed in the epidydirnis, late anatomifts have fometimes found a duel going off from the epidydirnis; but its termination was not well underftood. It was fuppofed to terminate in the lymphatic fyftetn ; in a few fubjedls Dr Monro has found ftich a duff arifing from one end of the epidydirnis and running into the other end. By this defeription of the extremities and edges of the epi- dydimis, Window demon'.irated, many years ago, a method to dilcover whether a tefticle, viewed extra fitum, belongs to the right or left fide. The fpermatic veffels. The fpermatic arteries go out mod commonly from the anterior part of the inferior aorta, near each other, and about an inch lower than the arteriae rena- les. Their origin oftentimes varies: for 1 have oblerved them to ariie from tl^e renal artery, and fometimes they go out higher, lower, or more laterally than is common, and each artery has been feen to arife from different places. Some- times there are two bn each fide, one arifing a little below the other; or at other times one comes from the aorta, the other from the renal artery on the fame fide; and here they , give off branches to the cremafter mufcle, &c. Tffey420 SPERMATIC VESSELS. Part VI. They run down obliquely in the polterior part of the ab- domen within the cellular fubftance of the peritonaeum, paf- ling infenfibly from behind forward j and fo parting gradual- ly more and more from the aorta, they crofs over the fore- fide of the ureters, and run through the openings or rings of the abdominal mulcles along with the elongations or produc- tions ot the cellular portion of the peritonaeum. They are fmall at their origin ; and, in their courfe down- ward, they give off very confiderable lateral ramifications to the membrana adipofa, peritonaeum, and alfo to the mefen- tery, where they feem to communicate with the mefenteric arteries. After producing numerous branches to thefe parts their fize is not diminifhed: fometimes, on the contrary, it is much increafed, owing feeiningly to the arteries, which are very long, and their coats thin, not being fufficiently able to refill the preffure of the blood. They fometimes pafs through the areolae or mefhes of the fpermatic veins ; and before they go out of the abdomen, they are divided into very fine rami, which run in a more or Ids winding courle, almolt parallel to each other. Afterwards they enter the celludr productions of the peri- tonaeum, which ferye them for vaginae. They do not fluc- tuate indifferently from one fide to the other of thefe vagi- nae; but are connected aloilg their inner furface by thin membranous laminae, which are likewife continuations of the cellular lubltance of the peritonaeum. The arteries continue the lame winding courfe within thefe vaginae, pafling before the vafa deferentia, which are likewife contained in the vaginae ; and at length they termi- nate by ramifications in the epidydimis and teftes, in the manner that fhall be afterwards explained. The fpermatic veins accompany the arteries, and have nearly the lame courfe. The right vein ends commonly in the- trunk of the vena cava, and fometimes it ends in the unionSPERMATIC VESSELS. 421 Chap. IV. union of the right renal vein with the vena cava, and fomc- times three veins on the right fide end feparately in the trunk of the vena cava. 1 he l&ft fpermatic vein ends mod com- monly in the vena renalis finifira. After getting into the abdomen they receive a branch which communicates with the vena miferaica, and confe- quently with the vena porta. A little higher, but below the place where they crofs over the ureters, they receive a confi- derable branch, one of which communicates with the vena capfularis, the other frequently with the vena renalis ; and in their whole courfe through the abdomen, they receive branches from the peritonaeum, mefenterv, &.c. They differ from the fpermatic arteries* not only in being larger, and having thinner coats, but alfo in being more di- vided and multiplied in the abdominal muffles ; and as they are formed of a large fafciculus of ramifications, the antients gave to them, and to the arteries, the name of vafa pyramiJa- I'm. ^ Thefe ramifications often communicate with each other in this courfe, and form a great number of areolae, contortions, and convolutions, fo-as to reprefent a kind of plexus, which is connefled to the cellular vagina of each fide by very fine laminae ; and the artery which accompanies the vein erodes it in feveral places, and runs through the areolae in different directions. Thefe frequent convolutions gave rife to the name of vafa pampiniformia, formerly given to thefe' veffels ; and their particular adhefions to each other at fome places, made it be believed that there were real anafiomofes between the artery and the vein. Leal Lealis an Italian anatomifi:, not attending to the late- ral ramifications of the fpermatic arteries and veins, believed himfelf able to eftablifh and demonftrate thefe pretended a- naftomofes. The experiments made by him on living ani- mals prove nothing. His way was, to make a common liga- ture422 SPERMATIC VESSELS. Part VI. ture on both vertels a little above the tellicle, and another on the trunk of the vein, after he had emptied it, Then prefix- ing the aorta to force the blood into the fpermatic anerv, the vein which he had before emptied was found to be pre- fently tilled. From thence he concluded, that the couife of the blood to and from the terticle being obflru&ed by the inferior ligature, there muff be fome anaffomoles between the two ligatures, through which the vein muff be fupplied with blood. But it is very pl iin, that this efl'cdf was owing to the lateral rami- fications of the fpermatic artery and vein, and not to his pre- tended anaffom fes. Thefe fine lateral ramifications were well known to Euftachius, but had eicaped Leal- Lealis. Vafa deferentia. Tire vafa deferentia are two white folid flatted tubes ; one lying on the right fide, the other on the left. From the epidydimis, of which they are continuations, as has been already faid, each of them runs up in the cellular vagina of the fpermatic veflels, as high as the openings in the t abdominal mufcles ; the blood-vertels, lying forward, and the vas deferens behind them. f \ This fafciculus thus formed, by the blood-vefiels, vas defe- rens, and their common covering, is termed the fpermatic rope. The covering is fmoother on the outer than on the in- ner fide ; and for that reafon it has been confidered as a va- gina *, the internal fubftance of which is molfly cellular, and connedfs all the veffels together, while the external forms a covering to invert them. The vas deferens having reached the membranous lamina of the peritonaeum, where that lamina runs over the orifice of the vagina, feparates from the blood-veflels, and runs back- / ward, in form of an arch, in the cellular fubrtance of the pe- ritonaeum, as far as the neareft fide of the bladder. It partes afterwards behind the body of the bladder, to which it adheres very clofely, as alfo to the lamina of the peri-423 SPERMATIC VESSELS. . Chap. IV. peritonaeum which covers it, and then continues its arched courfe towards the neck of the bladder, where both val'a de- ferentia meet, and their arches terminate. In this courfe, the vas deferens paffes behind and crofles the neighbouring umbilical artery ; crofles the extremity of the ureter of the lame fide, in its paflage between that extre- mity and the bladder; and having got behind tlie bladder, it meets the vas deferens of the other fide between the infer- tions of the ureters, and they run down together to the neck' of the bladder. This canal, which at the origin of the epidydimis is large and plaited, becomes immediately afterwards fmaller and fmoother, and continues in that form till it gets behind the bladder, where it begins again to be larger, and more une- ven. It arifes from the angular portion or pofterior extremity of the epidydimis; and from thence runs forwards in a very ob- lique courfe, on the poftenor half of the epidydimis, where it is a little incurvated as it joins the back-fide of the iperma- tic veflels. The texture of theTmooth portion of this canal is very fo- lid, and in a manner cartilaginous, cfpecially near the lurface \ of its cavity; which, though very narrow, is ftjll kept open by means of the folidity and thicknefs of its fides. The cavity of the vas deferens is cylindrical, though the whole tube is flat, and its external circumference oval, as r may be feen by cutting it tranfverfely ; and the cavity enlar- ges as it pafies behind the bladder. The termination of thefe canals muff be referred to the hiftory ot the urethra VeficuUie /emulates. The veficulae feminales are loft whi- tifh knotted bodies, about three or lour fingers breadth in length, one in breadth, and about three times as broad as thick, iituated ob iquely between the rectum and lower part of the bladder, in iuch a manner, as that their fuperior ex- tremities424 SPERMATIC VESSELS. Part VI. ' I * i tremities are at a diftance from each other, and their lower extremities are contiguous. They are irregularly round on the upper part, and their breadth decreales gradually from thencC. By the union of their lower extremities they form a kind of fork, the branch- es of which are broad, and bent like rams horns. Ihefe ex- tremities are very narrow, and form a fmall neck, which runs behind the bladder toward its orifice, and continues its - courfe in the groove of the proftrates, through the fubftance of the contiguous portion of the urethra, till its extremities pierce the caruncula in the manner already faid. The inner fubftance of the veficulae is plaited, and in a manner diftinguifhed into feveral capfulae by contorted folds. Their external furface is covered by a fine membrane, which ferves for a border and fraenum to the folds, and is a true continuation of the cellular fubftance of the peritonaeum. The veficulae may eafily be Unfolded, and all their contor- tions ftraightened ; and by this means they become much longer than in their natural ftate. Their inner furface is villous and glandular, and fomething fimilar to the inner furface of the gall-bladder, or like the cells of a honeycomb. This furnifties a partitular fluid, which exalts, refines, and perfe&s the femen, that the vefi- culae receive from the vafa deferentia, and of which they are the refervatories for a certain time. The paflage of the vafa deferentia into the veficulae is very particular. We have already obferved that thefe canals are incurvated behind the bladder, and that their contracted ex- tremities unite at that place, They unite in an angle, and run between the contiguous extremities of the veficulae; and this union is fo clofe, that the adhering portion feems to form only one middle feptum, between two fmall tubes; each of which is formed, partly by the extremity of one vas defe- rens, and partly by that of the neighbouring veficula. This425. Chap. IV. PENIS, This lateral union of the extremities, of the vas deferens, and veficu|a feminalis on each fide, forms likewife a kind of ihort feptum,. which terminates in a crefcent, like a fmall fe- niilunar valve; and the extremity of the vas deferens is narrower than that of the veficula. By this mechanifm, the fluid contained in each vas deferens has liberty to enter the contiguous veficula ; but that contained in the veficula can- not return into the other canal. If we blow into one of the vafa deferentia, after having compifefled the urethra, the air ii.fLtes the contiguous vefi- ' cula feminalis, and the bladder of urine, without puffing in- to the veficula er canal of the other fide, except we blow with two great violence. > Afterwards the two fmall tubes, formed each by the ex- tremities of the vas deferens and vefitula, run in between the bafis of the proftates and canal of the urethra •, and perforat- ing the fides of that canal obliquely, they terminate in the caruncula, in the manner already faid. That of the right has no communication with that of the left. The veficula feminales receive their blood-vcffels from thofe which fupply the redum and bladder. 1 hey have lymphatic vefTels which carry off the thinneft part of the fe- men into the circulating fyflem. Projlatae. The firll portion of the urethra, or that which is not covered by the cavernous fubftance, and which, from the bladder to the bulb, is only a membranous canal, is fuf- tained by a large folid whitifh mafs, of the figure of a chef- nut, and fituated between the bladder and the bulb of the urethra; its bafis being toward the bladder, the apex or point' toward the urethra, and the fides lying upward and downward. This body is termed the prcjlates, from a Greek word that exprefles its fituation before the vcficulae feminales, and im- plies a plurality, becaufe it appears to be divided into two Vol.II. 3 H lateral42 6 P E N I S. Part VI. The lateral lobes by a hollow groove, which runs through its up- per tide fi oni the bails to the apex. The fir ft portion of the urethra lies in this groove, adhering very clofely to the pro- bates, which (urround it for about half an inch in lenpth ; but there is only a very fmall pare of the probate upon the foreilae of this paffage. The body of the probates lies on the intebinum reftum, and the apex is under the internal labium of the cartilagi- nous arch of the oiTa pubis. The inner fubbance is fpongy, but very compatt ; and in each lobe there are feveral follicu- li, which open into the firft portion of the urethra, toward the bottom cf the groove, as we fliall fee hereafter. The fmall portion of the urethra, between the apex cf the pro- bates and the bulb, perforates a ligamentary fubbance, which is fituated at the under and back part of the fymphyfis pubis. This portion is very fhort, its length being no more than what is fufficient to pals through the hole in the ligament ; the poberior fide of which confequently touches the apex of ' the probates, and its forefide the bulb of the urethra. This portion might be called the neck of the urethra, and that which lies between the body of the bladder and the probates might be called the neck of the bladder. G/ans. The fpongy fubbance of the urethra having reach- ed the extremity of the corpora cavernofa, forms a large head called the glans, which crowns the three fpongy pillars ; with this difference,-however, that it is'a continuation of the fpongy fubbance of the urethra, and only adheres to the ex- tremity of the corpora cavernofa, without any direft commu- nication. It is for this reafon, that if we blow into the. fpongy fub- bance of the urethra, the glans is prefently inflated, and no air paffes into the corpora cavernofa ; but when we blow in. / ' * to one of thefe bodies, the air pafles immediately into the other, the urethra and glans remaining as they were./ •hap. IV. r E N I S. 427 The figure of the glans is that of a rounded cone, a little flattened at the lower part, and with an oblique prominent bafis, the circumference of which is fomething greater than that of the corpora cavernofa. The fpongy fubftance of the glans is thick and uniform next the corpora cavernofa ; but next the urethra it is per- v forated by a continuation of that canal, and Is there no thick- er than the urethra before the formation of the glans. Therefore the canal of the urethra does not lie in the mid- dle of the glans, but continues its direct cO'urfe through the .lower flat fide of it, all the way to the extremity, where it terminates by an oblong orifice. All the convex furface of the glans is Covered by a fine vil- lous fubftance, and that again by a fine membrane, refem- bling the red part of the lips. The circumference of the bafis of the glans has a double row of finall papillae. Which may be reckoned febaceous glands, from which a thick mat- ter is difcharged. Caruncula. We have feveral things to take notice of in the cavity of the urethra. At the bottom of the cavity of the firft portion, or that which lies within the proftates, there is a finall oblong oval eminence, large on the back part, and terminating forward in a point, called caruncula, or veru- montanum, The large portion of it is commonly perforated by two holes, fometimes only by or.e, and very feldom by three; and theft are the excretory orifices of the veliculae feminales; of which hereafter. Each orifice has a fmall thin membranous border, which may fcrve for valves to the ex- cretory dudls of the veliculae. \ On each fide of the large portion of the caruncula, there are five or fix holes ranked inform of a crefcent round its lateral parts, which are the orifices of the excretory d tufts of the proftates that come from the folliculi.already mentioned, and\ 4*8 PENIS.' Part VI. \ and run in an oblique courfe to the orifices, in a kind of membranous duplicature. > Corpora caverhofa The corpora cavernofii are two ligamen- tary and very limber tubes, united laterally to each other v through the givateft part of their length, and folid at their two extrt mities ; two of which are connected together, and rounded like the end of a finger; the other two divaricate, like the branches of the Greek r ; and diminilhiug gradual- ly in fize after the divarication, terminate in an oblique point. Thefe divaricated and pointed extremities may be called the rootSy and the round extremities the heads. Thefe two bodies are atmofi cylindrical, being round, and of an equal diameter from the roots to the heads, where they are in fome mealufe conical. The ligamentary fubflance of their Tides is elaftic, and compcfed of fine clofe fibres, which are partly tranfverfe, and partly more or lefs oblique. The cavity of thefe ligamentary tubes is entirely filled by flrong cellular or cavernous fubflance, which doe£ not feena to be a continuation of the fubflance of the fides. Thefe cells communicate with each other, and are always more or lefs full of blood, refembling very much'the cellular fubflance of the fpleen, only with this difference, that the fides of the cells are thicker in thefe cavernous bodies, and without any additional fubllance. By the union of the two corpora cavernofa, two external grooves are formed; one on the upper fide, the other on the lower. The lower groove is fomething broader than the up- per; and it is filled through its whole length by a third tube, narrower than the corpora cavernofa, called the urethra; which fhkll be prel'ently deferibed. The roots of the corpora cavernofa are fixed, each to the edge of the fmall ramus of the ifehium and os pubis. They meet at the fymphyfis of the ofla pubis, where each of them becomesChap, IV. PENIS. ' 42* becomes a cylindrical tube, and unites with the other in the manner already laid. The heads or rounded extremities join the balls of a difiinft body, called the gJans, which is an expanfion of the urethra, and clofely united to it in the manner that fhall be explained hereafter. By the union of the corpora cavcrnofa from their roots to their round extremities or heads, a particular feptum is form- ed by the tranfverle fibres of both. Between the fibres of this leptum feveral fmall void fpaces are left, by which the corpora cavernola communicate with each other ; and there- fore, by blowing into one of them, we prelently inflate the other. Toward the rounded extremities the feptum dimi- nilhes every way. Urethra. The urethra is the third fpongy tube which compotes the penis ; and it adheres to the corpora cavernofa, through the whole length of the inferior groove formed by their union. It diftl-rs from the other two, both as it is nar- rower, and as it forms a true hollow canal. Its lubftance is fpongy or cavernous, except a fmall portion next the bladder; and its inner and outer furfaces are membranous. It extends from the neck of the bladder to the extremity of the penis. It is at firfl no more than,a membranous canal continued from the anterior opening of the bladder, at the place called the neck of the bladder, which is a name that would be more proper for this portion of the urethra. It defeends from its origin to the under end of the fymphyfis pubis; then it a- feends before the fymphyfis to the root of the penis ; and at laft redefeends to the point of the glans. About a finger’s breadth from this part, it joins a cavernous fubflance like that of the two other tubes, only fmaller, which furrounds it through the whole extent of the inferior groove of the corpora cavernofa. ' ButPart VI. ^3° PENIS. But before this fpongy fubltance begins to furround the urethra, it forms a diffiruft oblong body, like a pear, which is connected only to the lower convex fide of the canal; and afterwards being fplit on each fide, inverts it quite round. This body is called the bulb of the urethra, being larger than any other part of that canal, and divided interiorly by a very fine membranous feptum into two lateral parts ; and there- fore, when it is inflated, it appears to be double, or with tw© heads. Lacunae of the urethra The infide of the canal of the ure- thra is lined by a fine membrane, full of capillary blood-vef- fels ; and its furface is perforated by a great number of ob- long holes, or fmall lacunae of differentfizes, the largert ly- ing near the glans. Thefe lacunae or orifices of the excretory duds of the fame number of fmall glands, are difperfed through the iubftance of the urethra :• which duds run for fome way in the fpongy fiibftance along the convex fide of the internal membrane of the urethra, and open obliquely from behind forward into the great canal. The edges of the lacunae are femilunar, or like a crefcent, becaufe of the obliquity of their opening. Anti-profatae. A little way before the veru-montanum, without the urethra, we meet with two lacunae more confi- derable than the reft, and their duds are very long. Thefe lacunae and duds lead to two glandular bodies, fituated, one on.each fide, between the pofterior and lateral parts of the mufculi acceleratores urinae, and the bulb of the urethra. Each of them is about the fize of a garden pea ; but they are obl6ng and flat, and covered entirely by the accelerator mufcles. They are known by the name ofprofatae inferiores ; but if their fituation be carefully examined, they will be found to be higher than the true proftatae. They are like wife term- ed glandulae mucofae of Coiuper, who has given a defcription •f them(y« Phil. Tranf. 1699); but they were firft defcrib- ed >The / Chap. IV. PENIS. 431 cd by Iviery in 1684. They feem to be wanting in fome fub- jefts; for certain anatomifts ef accuracy have fearched for them without finding them. A third gland of this kind is defcribed by Cowper as being feated a little more anteriorly; but this alio, Heifter obferves, is wanting in bodies difiefled by our bcft anatomifts. Orifice of the urethra. The cavity of the urethra refembles nearly that of a fmall writing pen. It is not every where round, and towards the glans becomes broader and flatter on each fide, efpecialiy in the glar.s itfelf, where there is a kind of oval or navicular foflula. This canal terminates at the extremity of the glans by a narrow oblong orifice or fiflure, \vhich is much lefs than the reft of the cavity. The commiffures of this fmall fiflure are turned, one toward the convex, the other toward the flat fide of the glans; and the labia of the fiflure are its lateral parts; and it leems to be furrounded by flefliy fibres.' !The common integuments. The integuments which cover all thefe parts are three or four in number. The firft is the lki« with the cuticula ; the fecond is the' common cellular mem- brane, which in this place leldom contains any fat; the third is termed nervous; and the fourth is a particular cellular membrane, which is not always to be found. Praeputium. The firft of thefe integuments, the fldn, is a continuation of that of the pubes and fcrotum ; and it ad- heres to the fecond all the way to the balis of the glans, where that fecond integument ends. The reft of the cutane- ous integument covers the glans without adhefion, and ter- minates by an opening. This portion is named praeputium; and along'the whole lower or back fide of the whole integu- ment in general, and of the praeputium in particular, there runs a fine future, which is a continuation of the raphe of the perinaeum and fcrotum.43* Part VI. PENIS. i The inner furface of the praeputium is lined with a fine 1 membrane from the’ opening all the way behind the balls of the glans, and the fame membrane is folded from behind, forward, round the glans, forming the proper integument of it, and covering very clofely its whole villous furface, as far as the orifice of the urethra, where it joins the membrane which lines the inlide of that canal This proper membrane of the glans, and internal mem- brane of the praeputium, form conjointly along the flat part of the glans, from its bafis to the orifice of tne urethra, a membranous duplicature, which, like a leptum or mediafli- num, divides this part into two lateral portions, and limits the motions of the praeputium; for which reaion it is called fraenum praeput'u. The lurf.xe of the internal membrane of the praeputium difcharges a fluid which prtvents it from adhering to the glans, and perhaps lerves likewife to dilute that which is col- lected at the bafis of the glans, from the glandulae iebaceae, already mentioned, The lecond common integument of thefe parts is nearly thd fame with what is every where found under the Ikin, ex- cept that it is not filled with fat, and that it is more fibrous than cellular, and a little loofe. It accompanies the Ikin te the bafis of the glans,las has been already obferved. Ligamenlumfujpenforium. Tbe third common integument, improperly'called tunica nervofu, is of a firm, elaftic, ligamen- tary fubftance, and its fibres are fometirr.es of a yellowifh co- lour. It inverts the corpora cavernofa and urethra from the glans to the fymphyfis of the orta pubis; and, at fome diftancs from thefe hones, it forms on the fuperior groove of the cor- pora cavernofa a clofe duplicature ; and by this duplicature, a flat broad ligafnent which runs dire&Iy upward, and is in- ferted in the forementioned fymphyfis, as far as the tendi- nous bafis of the mufeuli pyramidales of the abdomen. ThisChap. IV. 433 PENIS. t This ligament has been called ligamentum ehjlicum, becnufe it yields and recovers itfrlf and fu/ptnforium, becaufe it fu- fpends thefe parts, by means of its infection in the ly nphyfis. It fends off a deiachment or ala toward each tide, one edge of which is fixed between the mufculus triceps and the cor- pus cavernofum, and forms the ligament ary ex pa’ lion in which the dartos is inferted, as has been already (aid. It feems likewife to fend down another elongation diredtly to the perinaeum and anus. The fourth integument of thefe parts is the tunica cellulofa of Mr Ruyfch, which immediately furrounds the corpora ca- vernofa and urethra, lying between thefe and the third inte- gument, from which it feems to be diftinguifhed only by the clofenefs and finenefs of its texture ; and it is fometimes hardly perceivable. The mufcles. ■ Several mufcles are inferted in the parts which we have juft deferibed. They are fix in number ; two for the corpora cavernofa, two for the urethra, and two com- mon mufcles, called travfverfales. ‘(See Vol. I.) Blood vejfels. The arteries of thefe parts come chiefly from the iliacae internae or hypogaftricae, and the reft from the iliacae externa*: or crurale-:. The principal arteries are term- ed pudnae, of which one is external, the other internal. The pudica externa fends a branch to each fide, which ha- ving paffed out of the pelvis by the fide of the os i'acrum, runs on the infide of the trberculum ifehii,. to the roots of the corpora cavernofa, along the infide of the mufeuli llchio- cavernofi or eredtores. It fends ramifications to the bulbous, head of the urethra, and to the corpora cav. rnofa ; and, to- gether with the glutaeae, with which it communicates in its pafiage, it likewife fupplies the ferptum. The pudica interna having furnifhed the inteftinum rec- tum, bladder, veficulae feminales, and proftates, communi- cates with the hacmorrhoidales, pafles under the arch of the Vol. II. 3 I ofTaPENIS. Part VI. 434 ofla pubis, and partly enters the corpora cavernofa, and part- ly runs along their upper fide, fending off fmail lateral branch- es, which iurround thefe bodies, like irregular half arches, and penetrate them by numerous ramifications. 1 he crural arteries lend each likewife a branch, which, running behind the contiguous crural vein, is ciifiributed to the integuments of the penis, by the name of pudica externa, and communicates, by lateral ramifications^ with rhofe of the pudica interna. Thcle communications are not only between the internal and external pudicae of the fame fide, but alfo between thole of both fides, which reciprocally communicate wnk each other. v i Tne diftribution of the veins follows nearly that of the ar- teries j but they have more ramifications and communica- tions, as in other places. The principal vein is that which runs along the whole luperior groove formed by the union of the corpora cavernola. It palics diredly under the fympliyfis of the ofla pubis, between die two arteries. It is very large, often double, and very d'eldom triple, but the trunks do not feparate while in the groove j ar.d it has a great number of valves. This great middle vein opens into the branches of both hypogafinc veins. The lymphatic velTels of the per.is appear to go 'chiefly into the plexus in the groin, on the two inner fides of the pelvis, about the middle of tire arch of the ofla pubis. At this place we oblerve a venal plexus, which co- vers the upper convex fide of the firlt portion of the urethra, before it .is lurrounded by the fpongy lubflance. The fpermatic veflels, of which we have already deferibed the origin and courle all the way to where they go out of the abdom'en, having reached on each iide near the tefiicle, are divided into two principal fafciculi, one of which is larger than the other. The largefi is the anterior, and is diftribu- ted through the teftide, by a prodigious number of very fine capillaryPENIS. Chap. IV. 435 capillary ramifications, which accompany all the convolutions and folds of the fmall canals. The other fafcicufus is poficrior, and is ditlributed to the epidydimis in the fame ma: ner. The fpermatic artery is accompanied by a ramus of the epigaftric artery, which runs down on the tide of it as far as the tefiicle. where they communicate reciprocally with each other. There is fometimes a fmall ramus of the hypogaltric artery, wfjich accompanies the vas deferens to the epidydi- mis, and there communicates with the arteria fpermatica. The tefiicle has likewife numerous lymphatic vefieis, which run in the fpermatic cord, and join the lymphatics of die pelvis and loins. Nerves. The nerves of 'h-fe organs come from the lumba- res and fieri ; and they communicate with the fyrhpatheticus maximus, and plexus mefenterici. Near the arch of the os pubis, they form together, on each fide, a particular rope, which pafTes under that arch along the upper tide of the neighbouring corpus cavernolum, near the artery already mentioned. In their pafilige over the corpora cavernofa, they fend oft' a great many rami, which furround thefe bodies on all fides, between the fki.o and the ligamentary integument ; being fo difpofed, as that the arteries lie between them and the middle vein. They muft be examined foon after the fkin has been raifed, becaufe, when the ramifications are dried by the air, they difappear. The nerves of the tefticles are very fmall. They are form- ed by the renal and mefenteric plexus. The nffrves of the loins fend fmall branches likewife'along with thefe. They run along the fpermatic cord ; but it is exceedingly difficult to trace them into the tefiicle. There is likewife one nerve on each fide; which beincr O produced from the union of the fecond, third, and fourth pairs.SECRETION of the SEMEN. Part VI. 43<* The pairs of the nervi facri, efpecially from the third, goes out of the abdomen above the ligamentum ifcbio-facrum, pafTes by the infide of the tuberofity and fmall branch of the os ifchU umi and is diftributed to the corpora cavernofa, to the muf- cles belonging to them, and tQ the neighbouring parts. § 4. Secretion of'the Semen. % ' / The veflftls belonging to the parts of generation conftant- ly arile near tlie kidneys, altnoft in all kinds of animals; by which nature femes to have intended a double ulefulnefs in one organ, which might be able to dilcharge the urine and femen. The fituation of the parts of generation at the lower part of the trunk, and between the thighs, conduces much to cleanlinefs and to facilitate parturition. The femen mafculmum is firll formed in the tefticle; then repofited in the feminal velicles ; afterwards ejected from the penis into the uterus, where it renders the female ovum pro- lific : and therefore this mud be the order of our iniquiry in- to thefe particulars. The tellicle is defended by various integuments, and is compofed of various kinds of veffels and of nerves, as have been already deferibed. The blood, brought by a very flow motion through the fpermatic artery to the anterior fubftance of the teflicle, is there diflributed and conveyed into the feminiferous vefiels ; but we are ignorant of the manner by which the arteries communicate with thefe canals, the bundles of which form the whole fubftance of the tefticle. Thefe feminiferous vel- fels are exceedingly fmall, ferpentine, firm, folid, and have a verv fmall capacity in proportion to their membranes. They are colle&ed together, as has been delcribeJ above, and ter- i^inats in the vafa deferentia.Chap. IV. x SECRETION of the SEMEN. - 437 The femen is conveyed by the vafa deferentia into the ve- ficulae feminales, being propelled forward by the motion of the fucceeding juices in the tefticle; and perhaps, in fome meafure, though flowly, by the contraction of the cremafter. This fuppoiition is confirmed by the numerous fpires and convolutions formed by'the epidydimis, obftruding ahnoft every kind of injedion ; and, by the length of time that is required to fill the feminal veficles again, after they have been once exhaulted. The cylindric yas deferens, confiding of a very thick fpon- gy fubfiance, included between two firm membranes, a/cends in company with the cord of the fpermatic veffels, and to- gether with them paffes through the ring of the abdomen : Thence it defcends into the pelvis, and applying itfelf to the bladder between the ureters, it foon alter meets the lubjacent receptacles, called the right and left vefculae feminales Here it goes along the inner fide of the velicle, as far as the pro- late gland ; and, dilating in its pafiage, forms a Terpentine flexune, 'that begins to put on acellular appearance. But very near the proftate, being contipued from thefe cellular bendings, with a conical dud coming out from the veficle, > it unites in a very acute angle, which at the fame time forms a conical dud; whiclj being continued with the vas deferens, and finking through the proftate gland, is there wrinkled into a large fold, and going off outward at right angles from its companion on the other fide, and afterwards ftraightened, it opens into the urethra, through a little hollow’protube- rance, which has a long tail or dcfcent, and is laterally per- forated with two very fmall openings, one on each fide. By injeding liquor into the vas deferens of a dead fubjed, we perceive that it flows both into the urethra and into the fe- minal veficle, but more readily into the former : But in a living perfon the femen never flows out but in the ad of ve- nery, and confequently the Vas deferens conveys all its femen, without43^ SECRETION of the SEMEN. Part VI, without further delay, irva retrogade angle, to the feminat veficles. The liquor brought from the tefticles by the va(a deferen- tia, is yellowifh, thin, aud watery ; but in the veiicula feini- nales it becomes fomewhat thicker and higher coloured. It is white in man when it has been mixed wi h the liquor of the proflate It has a peculiar Imell in each clafs of animals; and it is the heavielt humour in the human body In water a part ieparates inio a kind of cuticle, like a cobweb, that fwims in the liquid ; the greater part, which is leemingly of a pulpy nature, tails to'the bottom. In the lemen which is long retained by challe people, lhining globules mixed with the white liquor are ealily to be lcen. It has a very great quantity of mucus. Without the conveyance of this into the womb, according' to the opinion ot Hal er, no ciais ot animals, of which there are two lexes, can be fecundated lo as to propagate their ipe- cies ; but Spallanzani has clearly proved, that in certain kinds of the animals commonly calico oviparous (excepting birds) fecundation takes place witnout the body of the female. The microicope (hews, that in man, as well as in all other male animals, the ieminal liquor is full of livfrig annnaicuia, relembling eels, only with a thicker head; and that thele are always prelent in healrhy fetnen after puberty; but, before (hat time, and in thole who are lterile from a' go- norrhoea, they are abient. That ,they are animalcula, ap- pears evidently from their various apparent motions and gef- tures. It has been much doubted what could be the ufe of thefe animalcula ; and in another place we Uialf confider the dis- pute concerning the opinion, that they are as it were-the firlt appearance of the future animal. Haller coufiders ;he na- ture of the leminal animalcula qs the fame with that of the cels in vinegaror pafte. ThatChap. IV. SECRETION of the SEMEN. 43* That the femen is produced from the lymph of the blood, and that the chyle is added to the lymph, will appear pro- bable from the iudden alacrity to venery that happens aftet; eating, and which is lefiened by farting. It is compounded of the liquor of the telficles and leminal vefTels, the former indeed being more evident in iome animals, and the coagu- lable milk of the prohate gland. That liquor, however, only fecundates, which is generated in the tehicles, as we lee in eunuchs, who, though they have the leminal veflels and prof- tate, are yet barren. The feininal fluid is retained in the veflcles as long as a , man neither exercifes venery, nor fports in imaginary dreams. It is always a ltimulus to the animal appetite of venery, as long as it is there prefent in any quantity. Befides this, there is a conlider..bie ltrong, volatile^ and odorous part of the fe- nn?n reablorbed into the blood, where it produces wonder- ful changes as foon as it begins to be formed ; luch as the protrufion of the beard, the covering of the pubes, a change of the voice and paffions, horns in cattle, &.c. ; for thefe changes in the aiimal are not the confequences of age, but of the feminal fluid, and are always abfent in eunuchs. The growth and flrength of caflrated animals are conftantly dimi- niflied ; and, in like manner, the fiercenefs of their temper, and the flrong Imell of their whole body, are remarkably weakened. And, from the example of fome animals, and even of mankind, it appears that the irritation of this fluid has occalioned death, by exciting convulflons. A retention of the femen may follow from a narrownefs of the excretory du(T, a fchirrholity of the proftate, and other caufes not fuf- 'ficiently known. 'The quantity of femen expelled at one time from the hu- I man veflcles is but fmalR more efpecially in a man who has not long abflained from venery ; and it is natural to think that the liquor can be but flowly produced from fo finall an * artery.44» SECRETION of the SEMEN. Part VI. • ' artery. Its generation is accelerated by love, by the prefence of the beloved woman ; fo that it diltends its veffels with a ienle of pain. Nature herfelf, therefore, enjoins venery, both for preferving the human race, and the health of every individual. That it comes from the teflicle, is fhewn by 'difeafes ; in which the vas deferens being obftruifled, a iwell- ing of the teflicle has enfued. The veficles are never emptied, except by venereal attions and appetites. In order that the femen, which is only in a fmall quantity, fhould be projected with a coniiderable force, it is previoufly mixed with another fluid from the proftate. This gland pre- pares a thick, white, foft, cream-like liquor, in a large quan- tity, which is poured out at the fame time, and from the fame cau^s, with the femen itfelf, into a little channel at each fide of the openings of the feminal veficles, where, mixing with the feminal fluid, it imparts the white colour and vifciuity which the femen poflefles. It was neceflary for the canal of the urethra to be firm and capable of a dire£t figure, that it might be able to throw the femen with fome ftrength into the diftant womb ; and therefore a threefold cavernous body furrounds it. Into the cavernous body of the urethra, the blood is pour- ed out from the arteries, which come from deep branches lent off from the external haemorrhoidals; the truth of which is demonftrated by the injeflion of any kind of fluid, which, being urged through the arteries, eafily flows into thofe cellular fpaces furrounding the urethra. Thefe cells are not na- turallyturgid with blood, becaufe there are veins open, and nu- merous enough in proportion, to receive and return what is poured in by the arteries; but if the return is impeded by comprefling thofe veins, the blood is then retained within the cellular fpaces, while the arteries continue to carry it more fwiftly and ftrongly than the veins return it. Thus the ftagnant bloodChap. IV. SECRETION of the SEMEN. ■4+1 Vol. II. 3 K the blood diftends the bulb of the urethra, together with its ca- vernous body, and the glam iifrlf. 1 his diilention is gene- rally performed at the fame time, when the other cavernous bodies of the penis, with which this of the urethra has no communication, are likcwile rigidly dillended. Thele cavernous bodies of rhe penis, hiving their fpongy fabric diftended in coition by the bloqd retained by the veins, and ftill propelled by the arteries, become rigidly turgid, and fuftain the otherwile flaccid or but weakly filled urethra, in fuch a manner that it may be able to condudl the femen into the diftant womb. All this is demonllrated from the diflec- tion of brute animals in the ad! of venery, from an artificial eredlion, and from the injedlion of liquid matters into the vefiels of the penis. The caules ol this eredtion are love; the defire of pleafure ■, the h idtion of the glans; various irritations of the bladder^ tefiicles, feminal veflels, and ure- thra, from the urine, from abundance of good feed, from the venereal poifon, from canthartdes, whipping the parts, and, laftly, trom convulfion of the nerves. The proximate caufe of this difiention remains (fill to be explained. In order to dillend the penis, there mull be either a com- prefiure of the vein, bringing back the blood from the ca- vernous bodies of the penis or urethra ; or at leal! it is ne- ceflary that there fhould be a conilridlion of the lcfler veins that every where open within the cavernous bodies, to hinder them from abforbing and returning the blood from the ar- teries. The firll, however, may be eftedled by the levator, drawing up the profiate and bladder : but it is very probable, that, as we Ice in the nipples of the breafts, in the loofe pen- dulous gills of the turkey cock, and in the blufhing or red- ncfs of the face from pafllons ofthe mind, eredlion may be produced without the immediate interpofition of any pecu- liar mufcle. This fuppofition is confirmed by brute animals, which all couple without the ufe of any eredlor mufcle ; bySECRETION or the SEMEN Part VE 442 the ereftions which take place in animals totally different from man, and especially rhofe-which take place in birds very quickly ; and by the inactivity of the ereftor mufcles them- felves in the libidinous ertdtion of the penis, and from their unfitnefs for compreffing the veins. It is alio probable, that an erection may be produced by the numerous ramifications of the nerves exciting a convulftve conltriction of the veins j while, at the lame time, the arteries, by an increafed velocity of the blood, bring more blood to the parts than the veins can carry off The caufe of this convulfion is perhaps inhe- rent in thefe nervous Sphincters themSelves, and depends ei- ther on a mechanical irritation of the nervous fibres, or cn the force of the imagination. A long continued and violent erection is at' laft accompa- nied with an expulfion of the Semen ; and this requires much greater force than is requifite for the erection only. For the Semen is expelled when the irritation of the nerves is arri- ved at its greatelt height : and in natural venery, when, at length, the cellular fpaces of the urethra and its continuous glans, which are at lalt filled, become lo far diltended with a large quantity of warm blood, that the nervous papillae. Stretched out in the latter, become violently affefted from the irritating or pleafing cauSe. The Seminal veficles are emptied by the levator mufcles of the anus, which prels them againft the refitting bladder with a convulfive motion, excited either by a voluptuous imagination, or by thcexquifite lenfibility of the nerves of the glans, principally in its lower part, which is in the neighbourhood of the frenum. Hence the Semen is never discharged with any of the urine, in an healthy man ; becaufe the expulfion of it requires the bladder to be clofed or drawn up firmly together ; for, while lax, it affords little or no refiftance to the Seminal veficles. The tranfverfe mufcles Seem to dilate the canal of the urethra for the recep- tion of the Semen expreffed from the veficles. SoonChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS'. 44$ Soon afterwards the powers confixinging the urethra -are, .from the irritation of the very lenlible fabric of that canal, put into adfion. lo this conllridfion conduces principally the accelerator, which makes a 'powerful concuflion of the bulb and adjacent part ot the urethra, lo as to propel its con- tents m re (wiftly. But that this may adf firmiy, the iphinc- ter ol the anus, together with that of the bladder, mult be well (hut. The accelerator mulcle (cents alio principally con- cerned in the erection, by conipreffing the veins ot the cor-' pus cavtruolum of the urethra. At the fame time the tree- tores penis, as- they are called, ariling irom the tubercles of the llchium, become tenft, and are mlerted into the caver- nous bodies, lultaining the penis as a lort of medium between -- th'e tranfverle and perpendicular diredtion. Thus the len en is driven into the vagina, ?nd into the uterus itlelf, in a proli- fic coition : the whole adlion of which is very impetuous, and comes near to a convulllon ; whence it wonderfully weakens the habit, and greatly injures the whole nervous iyl- tem, as the maladies ariling from thence, in conlcquence vf the affedtion of the nerves, without which the lemen camsoc be expelled, feem to indicate. J 5. The Parts of Generation in Females. I N The parts of generation ip females are feveral in number, fome of them ex'ernal, and lome interna! •, and ihev are all fnbordinate to-one principal internal part, called the uterus. The o her internal parts are the tubae •Eallopianae, ovana, vala IpermaticS, ligamenta lata, the ropes or bands calico //- > gamenta rotunda, and the canal of the uterus. 1 lie external parts are the pubes, the alae nymphae, clitoris, orifice of the urethra, and the orifice of the vagina. „ Uterus. The uterus lies between the bladder and the in- ieftinum reclum. It is a body inwardly hollow, outwardly of aUNIMPREGNATED UTERUS Part VI. 444 a whitifh colour, of a folid lubdance, and, except in time of pregnancy, of the figure of a flat fl.lk, being, in adults, about three fingers breadth in length, one in thicknefs, and two in breadth at one end, and fcarcely one at the other. This fize varies according to the age of the lubjecf The broadefl portion is termed the fundus, and the nar- rowed the neck. Its lituation is oblique, the fundus being turned backward and upward, and the, neck forward and downward } the broad lidts he next the redtum and bladder, and the narrow tides are lateral. The cavity of the uterus is flat, and refembles an oblong triangle, the (horreft fide of which anlwers exadtly to the fundus ; and the two longed Tides lie, one on the right hand, the other on the left ; and they are all bent inward, or to* ward the cavity formed by them. Of the three angles of this cavity, the two which terminate the fundus are perforated each by a narrow dudt, which, with difficulty, admits a hog’s briflle. The third angle forms a flat duff wider than the former, which perforates the neck of the uterus length wife, and terminates at the extremity of that neck, by a rranfverfe opening. This opening is termed the internal orifice of the uterus; and, in the natural date, is narrower than the du<d of the neck of the uterus, fo that only a finall probe can be pafled through it. At the edge of this orifice .are feveral fmall holes, anfwering to the fame number of glandular corpufcles, which difeharge a vifeid lymph. The inner furface of the cavity of the uterus is lined by a very fine membrane, which at the fundus or broad portion is fincth and even ; but, in the narrow portion which leads to the orifice, it is wrinkled in a particular manner. T e portion of this membrane, which covers the bottom of the cavity, is perforated bv a great number of confiderable holes, through which fmall drops of blood may be obferved IChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 445 to pafs, when the whole uterus is comprefled; and fometimes it appears to have very {mail hairs or villi. Thele villi and holes are obferved to be more or lei's tinged with blood in thofe women who die in the time of their menfes. In the narrow part, which anfwers to the neck, each fide is divided into two lateral parts by a kind of prominent lon« gitudinal line, which is larger in the upper or anterior fide, than in the lower or poflerior. On each fids of thefe two longitudinal lines there are lines or rugae obliquely tranfverle, and dilpuled like branches, the longitudinal lines reprelenting trunks. Between and round thele rugae, there are fmall lacunae, through which a muci- laginous fluid is difcharged that doles the orifice of the ute- rus. We fometimes obferve in the interftices between the rugae, leveral tranfparent globular corpufdes, which vary very much ip fiz'e. Their nature is not yet well underflood: They appear to be filled with a mucous lymph. Naboth con- fidered them as ova. , . Structure of the uterus. The fubftance of the body of the uterus is fpongy and compad, with a copious intertexture of vefiels. Its thicknefs is nearly equal and uniform in tfie fides i and edges; but the fundus is thicker toward the middle than toward the two angles, where the thicknefs decreafes gradu- ally. The edges are likewife much thinner near thefe angles than near the extremity of the neck. The uterus is covered by a portion of the peritonaeum, which' ferves it for a coat, and is the continuation of that which covers the bladder and redum, running up from the \ lower and pofterior part of the bladder, over the anterior part of the uterus, and from thence over the fundus, and down the poflerior fide, and afterwards going to the redum. On each lateral part or edge of the uterus this portion of the peritonaeum forms a broad duplicature, which is extend- ed on each fide, more or lefs diredly to the neighbouring la- teralUNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VT. to* feral parts of the pelvis, forming a kind of membranous fep- tum, between the anterior and pofterior halves of the cavity of the pelvis ; and it is afterwards continued in a looie man- ner with the peritonaeum, on the tides of the pelvis. Bi oad ligaments of the uterus. Thefe two broad duplicatures have .he name ot ligament a lata, and vefpertilionum alae. The upper edge of each is partly double, or folded, forming two fmall diftind duplicatures, which may be termed the pinions *f the broad ligaments. The anterior pinion is more railed than the pofterior, and they are both very looie. The laminae of all thefe duplicatures are conneded by a cellular lubrtance, in the fame manner as the other duplica- tures of the peritonaeum ; and they contain the Fallopian tubes, the ovaria, a part of the fpermatic veftels, and of thofe that go to the body of the uterus, the ropes called the round ligaments, the nerves, &.c. Ovaria. The ovaria are two whitifh, oval, flat, oblong bodies, fituated on the (ides of the fundus uteri, to which they are fixed by a kind of - fliort round ligament, and in- clofed, together with it, in the duplicature of the pofterior pinion of the ligamenta lata. They are compofed of a compad fpongy fubftance, and of feveral little balls, or tranfparent veficulae, cailed ova ,• the number of which, according to Dr Haller, is found to be fifteen and upwards, though Sabatier fays they are about ten or twtlve, fometimes more, fometimes Ids, and that the li- quor contained in them has all the qualities of lymph. The fpongy fubftance lurrounds each of thefe veficulae very clole- ly, and leems likewife to furnifh them with diftind fpongy coverings or calices. Thefe veficulae are carefully to <Je dil- tinguilhed from other preternatural ones, termed hydatides. The ligaments of the ovaria lie in the edges of the pofte- rior pinions of the ligamenta lata, much in the fame manner as the umbilical vein, in the anterior or umbilical ligaments ofChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 447 of the liver. They are round ropes of a filamentary texture, fixed by one extremity to the corner of the fundus uteri, a little above and behind the level of that fundus. They were formerly believed to be hollow, and confidered as vafa defe- rentia. Tubae Fallopianae. The Fallopian tubes are two flaccid, conical, and vermiform canals, fituated more or lefs tranf. verfely on each fide -of the uterus, between the fundus and the lateral parts of the pelvis, and included in the anterior duplicatures or pinions of the ligamenta lata. Each of them is fixed by its narrow extremities in the corner of the fundus uteri, into which it opens, though by fo narrow a duff, as hardly to admit a large brittle. From thence their diameter augments by degrees all the way to the other extremity, where it is about one third part of an inch. The body of the tubae goes in a winding courie, and their large extremity is bent toward the ovarig. Thefe large extremities are irregulary round, and termi- nate by a narrow orifice, a little plaited and turned toward the ovarium, where it prelently expands in form of a mem- branous fringe, full of plaits and incifures. Thele fringes arc called the bread ends of the Fallopian tubes. The breadth of the fringe is not equal in all parts. Its circumference is in a manner oval, and the longelt fegment of the fringe reaches to, and is fixed in the ovarium. The folds are difpofed like laminae on the concave fide. Thefe tubes are compofed of fielhy fibres, whereof fome are longitudinal, and fome obliquely circular, with an inter- texture of another very fine fublfance. The anterior pinions of the ligamenrum latum ferve for a common or external coat to both tubes, and alfo to connefl them, in the fame manner as the mefentery connects the in- teflines. From thence the tubes, and elpeciallv their fringes, conic44$ UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part Vh cbme to be loofc, and their direction to be very imperfectly determined. Their cavity is lined by a foft.glandular membrane, which is plaited longitudinally, almoft like the inner 1'urface of the afpera arteria ; and thefe folds arc ftronger and broader near the great extremities than any where elfe. Their fubftance feems to be fpongy, and the interftices between them are moiftened more or lels by a fluid which is continually dif- chargtd there. Blood veffels. The blood veflels of thefe parts are of dif- ferent kinds, viz. the hypogaftric arteries and veins, the ra- mifications of which belong chiefly to the body of the ute- rus j the fpermatic veflels, and the two vafcular ropes, called ligamenta rotunda, which might be more properly termed the vafcular ropes of the uterus or of the ligamenta lata. The hypogaftric branches are arterial and venal ramifica- tions, arifing from the artery and vein of the fafne name ; which having reached the lateral edges of the uterus, are diftributed to all its parts, both internal and external, form- ing a great number of incurvations and particular iutertex- tures. The arteries of one fide communicate both upon the ute- rus, and through its whole fubftance, with thofe of the other fide; and the arterial ramifications of each fide form nume- rous anaftomofes with each other. The veins communicate together on each fide in the fame manner; and all thefe blood-veflels communicate likewife with the fpermatic veflels, with the vafcular ropes of the ligamenta lata, and with the haemorhoidales. Thefe frequent anaftomofes may be demonftrated by in. jetting or blowing into the hypogaftric veflels, having firfl: made proper ligatures to prevent the liquor or air from run- ning into other parts. The extremities of thefe arteries ter- minate and open into the cavity of the uterus, as has been . , ■ • alreadyChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 449 Vol. II. ’ 3 L through already faid ; and there is this peculiar to the veins, that they communicate with the haemorrhoidales, and conh quently with the vena portae. The fpermatic v flels have nearly the fame origin in fe- males as in males, and likewile the fame cotirfe ami intrr- textures; but they never pais out of the abdomen, being wholly diftributed to the ovaria and tubes; and 'hey com- municate with the uterine hypogaftrics, and with the valcu- lar ropes of the ligamenta lata. The veins are very large in proportion to the arteries, and thefe vefTels fend out lateral ramifications which feem to communicate with the mefcraicae and vena portae. The vafcular ropes, commonly called the round ligament/, are two long fmall fafciculi of arteries, veins, and ligamen- tous fibres, interwoven and connected together by a fine cel- lular fubftance ; and they run in the great duplicature of the ligamenta lata, from each corner of the fundus uteri, as far as the annular openings of the abdominal mufcles. In this courfe, each rope thrufis outward or rnifes the an- terior lamina of the duplicature, which confequently gives a kind of coat to thefe vafcular fafciculi, and makes 'hem ap- pear like diftinft ropes connected to this forefide of the du- plicatures. > They feem to arife from the communication between the vafa fpermatica and hypogaftrica, and might be reckoned a particular continuation of the fpermatic velTcls. The dilpo- fition of their adhefions to the angle of the fundus uteri, with refpedl to that of the tubes and ligaments of the ovaria, which lie all near each other, is this: The tubes lie highefl, the ligaments of the ovaria moll backward, and the vafcular ropes forward, and a little lower than the ligaments of the ovaria. Afterwards they run in a courfe, nearly refembling that of the fpermatic veffels in males, pafs out of the abdomen,45° UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VI. \ through the openings of the abdominal mufcles, and are loft in the fat of the upper and middle parts of the groins. As they pafs out of the abdomen, they are accompanied by a production of the cellular portion of the peritonaeum, as the fpermatic rope in men, and by a fafciculus of flelhy fibres, reprefenting a kind of cremafler. Nerves, lymphatics, £sV. BeGdes all the vefTels hitherto mentioned, we obferve nerves and lymphatics, to which we may add the lactiferous ducts that are feen in an advanced pregnancy. The nerves come from the lumbares, facri, and fympathetici maxiuni, in the fame manner as in males. The lymphatic veflels run chiefly in the coats continued from the peritonaeum, Pubis. The pubis is that broad eminence at the lower part of the hypogaftrium, between the two inguina, on which the hairs grow at a certain age, called in Latin by the fame narire, ‘and alnroft of the fame kind with thofe found under the axillae. This eminence is owing to a particular thick- nefs of the. membrana adipola which covers the fore part of the offa pubis, and fome (mail portions of the neighbouring mufcles. Sinus and alae. The longitudinal cavity which reaches from the middle and lower part of the pubes, within an inch of the anus, was by the antients termed finits ; and they cal- led the lateral parts of the cavity alac, which is a more pro- j er name than that of labia, commonly given .to them. The places where the alae are joined abpve and below are termed connnijfntes, and may likewile be called the extremities or angles of the Jinus. The alae are mere prominent, and thicker above than be- low, and lie nearer each other below than above. 1 hey are chiefly compofed of the fk.in, cellular fubllance, and fat. The exterior fkin is a continuation of that of the pubes and in- guina. It is, more or Ids even, and furniflied with a great . numberChap. IV UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 45* the number of glandular corpulcles, from which a whitifh ceru- minous matter may be exprefl'ed ; and -after a certain age it is likewde covered in the lame manner with the pub s. The inner fide of the alae is iomething like the red por- tion of the lips of the mouth ; and it is difimguifhed every- where from the external tide by a kind of line, in the f me manner as the red portion of the lips from the reit of the fkm, being likewife thinner and Smoother than the outward, fkin A great number of pores are oblervable in it, and al- fo numerous glandular corpulcles, which furnilh a liquor more or lei's febaceous ; and thcfe corpulcles are larger near the edges than in the other parts. Lacunae. Near the inner edge of the inner furfaces of the alae, on each fide of the orifice of the vagina, we find a finall hole more vifible than the reft. Theie two holes are termed lacunae, and they communicate by two 1 mall duffs - with the fame number of follicular bodies lying in the fub- flance of the alae, and which may be confidtred as frnait proftates, aniwering to the glandulae proffaticae inferiores in males. When comprefted, they difeharge a viicid liquor. Above the fuperior commifiure, a thin flat ligament runs down from each finall branch of the ofla pubis, which pene- trates the fat in the fubftance of each ala, and is loft therein infenlibly near the edge. Theie may be confidered as the, iigamenta fufpenfona of the alae. The inferior commiirure of the alae is very thin, or like a membranous ligament, and, together with the neighbouring parts of the inner fide, it form- a foffula termed navicularis, or fcaphoidcs The Ipace between ihe interior commifiure and anus, termed perinaeuw is about a large finger’s breadth in length. The other external parrs are fi-uate 1 in the finus, and hid by the alae. Oireftly under the fuperior commiirure lies the clitoris with irs cover, called praeputium. A little lower is the orifice of the urethra; and below that is the orifice of4 5* UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VI. the great canal of the uterus. The circumference of this orifice is bordered, either by a membranous circle, called hy- men, or by flefhy portions, termed earunculat myrtiformes. On each fide of the clitoris begins a very prominent fold, like a crifta, which runs down obliquely on each fide of the orifice of the urethra. Thcfe folds are termed nymphae, and they might likewile be named crijla clytoridis. On each fide of the great orifice lies the lmall proftatic hole already de- fcrihed. Clitoris. The clitoris appears at firft fight like a fmall im- perforated glans. Its upper and lateral'fides are covered by a kind of praeputium, formed bv a particular fold of a por- tio1 of the inner fide of the alae, which appears to be glan- dular, and to dilcharge a certain moifture, and its infide is granulated. Bv difieftion, we difcover in the clitoris a trunk and two branches, as in the penis, confifting of a fpongy fubflance, and ot very elaftic coats, bur without any urethra, ibis fubflance may be inflated either by air or anatomical injec- tions into the artery, &c. The trunk is divided into two la- teral parts by a middle feptum, from the bifurcation to the glans, where it i> infenfibly loft. The bifurcation of the trunk is on the edge of the carti- laginous arch of the ofia pubis ; and the branches, which refemble the roots of the corpora cavernofa, are inferted in the inferior rami of thcfe bones, and in thole of the ofia if- chium, where they terminate by degrees ; but there is home- times a membranous tube on each fide, which reaches to the tuberofity of the ifchium. The trunk of the clitoris is fuftained by a ligamentum furpenforium fixed in the fymphyfis of the ofla pubis, and containing this trunk in its duplicature, nearly as in the other fex.^ \ \ FourChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 453 They Jour mufcles or faf.iculi of flefhy fibres are inferted in the trunk of the clitoris, two on each fide. One of them runs down on the forcfide of the neighbouring corpus caver- nofum, and is inlerted by a tendinous or aponeurotic portion, partly in the extremity of the corpus cavernofum, and partly in the tuberofity of the ifchium. Thefe two mufcles are cal- led ereclores ; but the name of ifch'w-cavernofi would be more proper. s The ether mufcle on each fide lies under the former, and runs down on the fide of the urethra and great orifice of the uterus, all the way to the anus, increafing gradually in breadth in its pafiage, and terminating partly like that which is called accelerator in males. Thefe two mufcles furround very clofely the lateral parts of the urethra and of the great orifice. They expand very much as they defeend, and are fpread on the lower and la- teral parts of the great orifice ; for which reafon feveral ana- tomies have confidered them as mufcular fphindlers. All thefe four mufcles, and efpecially the two latter, are often- times almoft covered with fat. The blood-veflels of the clitoris come chiefly from the hy- pogaftricae, and the nerves from the fecond and third pairs of the nervi facri, by means of which they communicate with the inferior mefenteric plexus, and with the great fym- pathetici. Nymphae. The nymphae, criflae clitoridis, or, as they may likewife be termed, alae minores five internae, are two prominent folds of the inner Jkin of the great or external alae. reaching from the praeputium of the clitoris to the two fides- of the great orifice of the uterus. They begin very narrow, and, having increafed in breadth in their courfe downward, they are again contracted at their lower extre- mity.'454 UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VE T. hey are of a fpongy fubftance, intermixed with glands, feveral of which may be perceived by the naked eye. Their fituation is oblique, their upper extremities lying near each other, and the lower at a much greater dillance. In married women they are more or lei's flaccid and decayed. XJrdhra. By the urethra in females, we mean the urinary duff, the orifice of which is between the nyrnphae below the. glans of the clitoris, l he fides of this orifice are a little prominent and wrinkled, and perforated by fmall lacunae, from which a vifeid or mucilaginous liquor may be Iqueezed. In time of pregnancy, this orifice is fometimes drawn a little inward. The body of the urethra is a fpongy duel of the fame ftruc- fcure as in males, but much fhorter, fituated directly under the trunk of the clitoris, and above the great canal of the uterus, adhering to each of thefe canals between which it lies by membranous filaments. It pafles under the cartilaginous arch of the ofia pubis, and terminates by an oblique opening at the neck of the bladder, being bent a little downwards be- tween its two extremities. i The internal membrane of the urethra is a little plaited, and perforated by fmall holes, which communicate with foi- liculi, lying hid in its fubftance, as in males. If we blow into one of thefe holes, we obferve a fmall canal to be inflated, which runs from without inwards, and terminates in fome places by a kind of facculus, by compreffing which 4 viicid liquor is difeharged. The continuation of this membrane, which lines the neck of the bladder, forms likewife feveral rugae, more or lefs equal ; but. that which lines the cavity of the bladder is wrink- led in an irregular manner when the bladder is empty. The vagina. The great canal, formerly called the tied of the uterus, is fituated below the urethra, and above the ex- tremity of the inteftinum return, a little obliquely, being moreChap. IV. UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. 455 / more raifed on the inner and back part than on the outer and fore part. Its inner or pofterior extremity joins the extremity of the body of the uterus, and furrounds its orifice much in the fame manner as the duodenum furrounds the pylorus, or as the ileum is furrounded by the caecum and colon. ‘ The anterior extremity forms the great orifice, which lies under that of the urethra, and above the foflula of the infe- rior commifture of the alae. The body of the canal is chiefly compofed of a fpongy fub- ftance, interwoven with numerous blood-veflels; and it is commonly longer and narrower in virgins than in married women. Its inner or concave furface has feveral tranfverfe rugae, and is covered by a particular membrane. The rugae are formed by oblong narrow eminences, incurvated like portions of arches, placed very near each other, and difpofed in- fuck a manner as to divide the cavity of the canal into an upper and lower fide. Ey the union of the extremities of the upper and lower rugae, a kind of raphe or future is formed on the right and left fides; and both arches are fometimes interfered ifl the middle, and fo form two half arches ; but in this there is l'oine variety. In general, thefe arches are very confiderable in young perl’ons; become gradually more fuperficial in married wo- men, and are quite loft in time of delivery. The inner or pofterior extremity of this great canal fur- rounds the orifice of the uterus a little obliquely, in fuch a manner as that the upper fide of the canal lies very near the orifice, and the lower fide at a greater diftance from it ; and this makes the extremity of the uterus appear to advance more into the canal on the lower than on the upper part Circulus456' UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. Part VI. f \ Circulus membranofus. The exterior or anterior extremity of the great canal in virgins, and elpecially before the firft eruption of the naenfes, is commonly bordered by circular membranous folds of different breadths, more or lei's fmooth, and fometimes femilunar ; which, in fome fubjedls, leaves but a very fmall opening, in others a larger opening ; and, in all, renders the external orifice narrower than the reft of the cavity. This fold, called hymen, is formed by the union of the internal membrane of the great canal with that on the infide of the alae, and reprefents a membranous circle of different breadths, and fometimes uneven. Caruticulae. This membranous circle is commonly ruptu- red after the confummation of marriage *, is quite loft in de- livery, and afterwards only fome irregular portions of it re- main ; which, from their fuppofed refemblance to myrtle- leaves, have been termed carunculae myrtifermes. This circle may likewife fuffer fome diforder by too great a flux of the inenfes, by imprudence, levity, and other particular acci- dents. Plexus retiformis. Each fide of the anterior portion of the, great canal is covered exteriorly by a thin, broad, cavernous, and vafcular plexus, called the plexus retiformis of that canal. Thefe two planes run down on each fide of the clitoris be- hind the nymphae, and likewife cover the urethra like a col- lar, before they are fpre.ad on the great canal. This plexus is ftrictly united to the mufcular portions, commonly taken for accelerators or conftriftors, lying between thefe portions and the lateral parts of the urethra, and of the great canal. This plexus may be inflated by air like a flaccid fpleen, or like the fpongy fubftance of the clitoris, with which it feems to have fome communication ; and on this account the late- ral portions of this reticular plexus have been named the in- tcrnal crura of the clitoris It is a kind of rete-mirabile, ■ compofedChap. I. 457 UNIMPREGNATED UTERUS. compofed of veffcls wh.ch come chiefly from the hypogaflri- cae. It ftill remains to be obferved, that, on each fide of the bottom of the pelvis, in both lexes, oppofite to the lower part of the bladder, there is an aponeurotic or tendinous li- gament, which runs over the inner furface of the mulculus obturator internus from before backward I'he anterior ex- tremity of this ligament is fixed on one fide of the middle portion of the fyrnphylis of the ofia pubis, and the poflerior extremity to the middle part of the ligamentutn facro feiati- cum, formerly deficribed. A little above the elongation called the neck of the bladder, there is another ligameutary expanfion on each fide of the bladder j the fore parr of which is narrow, and fixed to the anterior ex r miry of the ligament already mentioned ; and the broad poflerior parr to the fide of the blad er. Thefe two lateral expanfions tray be cot fidered as proper ligaments of the bladder, by which it is conne&cd to the inner fide of both ofla pubis. > V Vol. ir. 3 M EXP LA- s t( 45« ) EXPLANATION of TABLE XL r. Trachea. 2. The internal jugular vein. 3. The fubclavian vein. 4. Vena cava defcendens. 5. The right auricle of the heart. 6. The right ventricle, the pericardium being removed. 7. Part of the left ventricle. 8. Aorta afcendcns. 9. Arteria puhnonalis. 10. The right lobe of the lurfgs, part of which is cut off to (hew the great blood veffels. 11. The left lobe of the lungs. 12. The diaphragm. 13. The liver. 14. The ligamentum rotundum. 15. The bottom of the gall-bladder projecting beyond the anterior edge of the great lobe of the liver. 16. The ftomach, preffed by the liver toward the left fide. 17. The fmall guts. 18. The fpleen. EXPLA.TabJ£\/( 4 S9 ) EXPLANATION oh TABLE XII. j. The under fide of the liver. 2. Ligamentum rotundum. 3. The gall-bladder. 4. The pancreas. 5. The fpleen. 6. The kidney. 7. Aorta delcendens. 8. Vena cava alcendens. 9. The eraulgent vein. 10. A probe under the fpermatic vefiels and the arteria roelenterica inferior, and over the ureters. 1 11. The ureter. 12. The iliac vefiels. J3. The inteftinum re£lum. 14. The bladder of urine. EXPLA- / , 1I l 460 ) EXPLANATIOS of TABLE XTIL Figure I. Gives a front view of the uterus in fitu fufpended in the vagina; the anterior parts of the offa ifchium, with the cfla pubis, pudenda perinaeum, and anus be- ing removed. A The lalt vertebra of the loins. BB The ofla ilium. CC The acet.ibula. DD The inferior and pofterior parts of the ofla ifchium. E The part covering the extremity of the coccyx. F The inferior part of the redtum. GG 1 he vagh.a cut open longitudinally, and ftretched on each tide of the collum uteri, to lhew in what manner the uterus is fufpended in it. HH Part of the vefica urinaria ftretched on each fide of the vagina, and inferior part of the fundus uteri. I The collum uteri. K The fundus uteri. LL The tubae Fallopianae and fimbriae. 1V1M The ovaria. FiN The ligamenta lata and rotunda. OO The fuperior part of the redtum. Figure II. Gives a view of the internal parts as feen from the right groin, the pelvis being divided longitudinally. A The laft vertebra of the loins. BC l he os iacrum. D The left os ilium. E The inferior part of the left os ifchium. F The os pubis of the fame fide. G The foramen magnum. H The acetabulum Hi The inferior part of the redtum and anus. K TheTab.-XUL( 4<5< ) K The os externum and vagina, the os uteri lying loofely ia It. L The vefica urinaria. MN The column and fundus uteri, with the view of the ca- vity of both The attachment of the vagina round the outfiJe ot the lips of the mouth of rhe womb is likewile here Ihewn ; a alio the fituation of the uterus, as it is pr ffed downwards and backwards by the intef- tines and urinary bladder into the concave and inferior part of the os lacrum. O The ligatnentum latum and rotundum of the left fide. PP 1 ho Fallopian iudc with the fimbriae, he ovai mm. RK The lupcrior part of the re£tum, and inferior part of the colon. ^Figure 111. Gives a front view of the uterus in the bigin- ning ot the firlt month of pregnancy, the anterior part being removed, that the embryo might appear through the amnios, the chorion being difieited off. A The fundus uteri. B 1 he collum uteri, with a view of the rugous canal that leads to the cavity of the uterus. C The os uteri. EX- "rt'luffsi r- H n '-■m i*,. jj :-h, i j IC 462 ) EXPLANATION of TABLE XIV. Reprefents the abdomen of a woman opened in the fixth or feventh month of pregnancy. AAAA The parietes of the abdomen opened and turned back to (hew. B The uterus. CCC The inteftines raifed upwards. From this figure it appears, that the ftretching of the ute- rus can eafily be felt at this period, in lean liibjedts, through the parietes of the abdomen, efpecially if the inteftines do not lie before it. In general, indeed, as the uterus ftretches it rifes higher, by which means the inteftines are alfo raifed higher, and are iikewife prefted to each fide. Hence the nearer the woman is to her full time, the ftretching is tk$, more eafily felt. INDEXTaxaXIV. U.Iizar.* 5min!I I INDEX # * TO VOLUME SECOND. 'i A ' ABDOMEN defcribed, 292. Integuments of it, 293. Its cavity, 294. Alae minores, five internae, a name of the nymphae, 453. Antiproftatae defcribed, 430. Anus, 323. Aarta, receives the blood from the Jleft ventricle of the heart* 214. defcendens, ib. Appendices epiploic*, 380. Appendicula vermiformis, 317. Aquedufls of Cotunnius, 148. Arbor vitae, 35. Areola of the breads defcribed, 201. Arteria pulmonaris, 214. coronariae, 2 17. hepaticae propriae, 359. umbilieales, 406. Auricle of the heart, 215. Appendix of the left, 216. B Bile, account of it, 382. Secretion, ib. Bladder, its fituation, figure, and divifion, 405. Its ftruclure, ib. Its blood veffels and nerves, 408. Blood and juices, their nature, 233. Its heat, ib. The vapour, exhaled from it, 234. Craffamentum, 235. Pleuritic crufts, how formed, ib. Sea-falt in the blood, 236. Earth, ib. Iron, ib. Air, ib. Experiments with different fubftances, ib. The blood analyfed, 237. Viewed with a microfcope, 238. Dia- meter of its globules, ib. Fibres, 239. Serum, ib. Caufe of its rednefs confidered, 284. Blood-veffels, two different kinds of them in the lungs, 259. Brain and its appendages defcribed, 10. Bronchiae defcribed, 257. % C Calamus fcriptorius, 34. Capfula Gliffoni, 357. Capfulae attrabiliariae, 40U ——— renales, ib. 1INDEX. *6* Carrilagines arytenoi laeae, 172. Cartilago thytoidaea, 171. —— cricoides. ib Caruncula lacrymalis, 96. Of the urethra, 427. Carunculae mytiformes, 4,6. Why fo called, ib. Defcribed, ib. Centrum ovale of the brain, 25. Cerebellum defcribed, 33. Cerebrum defcribed, 22 Cheeks defcribed, 157 Muffles of them, 158. Ciyftalline lens, its denlity and refracting power, 108. Cilia defcribed, 95. Circulation of the blood, 220, 249 Circulus membranofus defcribed, 456. Clitoris defcribed, 492. Its trunk and mufcles, ib. Origin of its blood veffels, 453. Cochlea of the ear, 140. G-ecum, a division of the intedines/o called, 317. Its nerves, 332- . . ' Colon, an intehine, 319. Nerves of its arch, 332. Of its lalt convolurions, ib. Concave glafles, their ufe, T12. / Convex glalTes, their ufe, ib. Cor, 209 Corpora albicantia, 452. fimbriata, 27. —— cavernofa, 428. . pyramidalia, }6.' Itriata, their delcription and fituation, 28. Corpus callofum, 24. ' Coughing, 286. Cremafler mufcle, its defeription, origin, and ufe, 416. Crifta cliiondis, 452. ' D Dartos mufcle defcribed, 413. Deglutition, 189. D'altole, what, 220. Digetlion, how performed, 333, Diftance contidered, 114. Duflus auris palatinus, 143. choledochus, 361. cyfticus, ib- , cyiio hepatici, 363. hepaticus, 358. inciforii, 123. lacrymalis, 132.4^5 INDEX. Vol. ir. 5 N Duflus lafliferi, 200. , pancreaticus, 368. Virfungi, ib. Duodenum, a divifion of the intefline fo called, 310. Struflure, 31 r. Glands, 312. Arteries and veins, 329. Nerves, 332. Dura mater, its fituation, divifion, compofition, See. 11. E Ear, 128. Mufcles, 131. Arteries, 133. The bony parts of it, 134. Internal foft parts, J45. Epidydimis deferibed, 418.- Epiglottis, its figure, 173. Eye, 75. Its fituation and compofitiori, ib. The orbits, 76. Idu.nours and capfulae, 83. Mufcles of the globe, 87. Their number, names, fituation, and ufe, ib. Nerves, 100. Vdfels and appendages, 98. F.' Feneflra ovalis, (33. Foramen lacerum, 20. . * Fornix, defciiption of it, 27. Q Generation, male parts of, 412. female, 443. Glandtila pinsafis, 32. pituitaria, 31. lacrymalis, 94. Glandulae amygdalae, 175, 187. bronchiales, 264. buccales, 187. ' ceruminofae, 133. ciliarcs, 95. , lacrymales, 94. labiates, 187. linguales, 186. maxiilares, ib. molares, 187. . , Pacchioni, 58. palatinae, 187. parotides, 185. renales, 401. falivales, 184. iublinguales, 186. thyioidiae, 188. Gians penis deferibed, 426. Globe or ball of the eye, 77. Its compofition, coats, lu:rr.c"rs. occ. ib. 7INDEX. 4-66 Glottis, T74. Gums deicribed, 157. H Head, g. Hearing, 150. Produced by the vibrations of the air, ib. Heart, particular fituation of it, 209 Ufcs, flelhy fibres, fob* fiance, &c. 218. Its phyfiology, 221. Its innate motion* 222. Hepar,,353. Hiccup, 286. Humours of the eye, 83. Hymen, a membranous circle fo called, 456. I Jejunum, a divifion of the inteflines fo called, 313. Its Situa- tion and fize, ib. Its firudture, ib. Its arteries, 329. Nerves, 332 Ileum, an intefiine fo called, 316. Its fituation and ftruiflure, ib. Its blood veffels, &c. 329. Incus of the ear defcribed, 136. Infundibulum, 30. lnteltines, 308. Their fituation, fize, and divifion, ib. Their ftru&ure, ib. Their blood veffels, 329. Intefiinum coecum, its fituation and firufture, 317. colon, its fituation, &c. 319. Its cells, 320. duodenum, 311. . ileum, 3 1 6. jejunum, 313. . rectum, 323. Iris, 81. Iter ad quartum ventriculum, 30. K Kidneys, their fituation, figure, and divifion, 393. Their blood- veffels, 394. Coats, 395. Subfiance, 396. Pelvis, 397. L Labyrinth of the ear, 139. Lacunae of the urethra, 430. Of -the parts of generation in wo- 'rrien, 491- Larynx, 170. Its ligaments, 173. Mufcles, 175. Ufes, 176. Laughter, 286. Lien, 371. The human one very different from that of brutes, 373- Ligamenta tarforum lata, 93.INDEX. 46 7 Ligamentum fufpenforium, 432. ciliare, 80 coronarium, 356. hepatis fufpenforium, improperly fo called, 356. Light, how its rays are refraCted, &c. '06. Lips defcribed, 157 Great variety in their mufcles, 158. E- numetation of them, ib. Upper lip, lometimes moved by the mufcles of the nofe, 159 Lobes of the liver defcribed, 353 Lobulus Spigelii, the Imall lobe of the liver, defcribed, 354. Liver, its external coats, 33? Remarks on its veflels, 365. Lungs, general and particidar fituauon. figure, and divifion, 256. Lobes, ib Structure, 257 Coats, ib. Interlobular fubflance, 258. Veflels, 259. Neives, 260. Lymphatic veffels, 261. Ligaments,' ib. M Malleus of the ear defcribed, 137. Mammae defcribed, 199. Their body, 200. Corpus adipofum, ib. Arteries, veins, and nerves, 202. Maltication, 189 Meatus auditorius externus defcribed, 134. Wanting in chil- dren, ib. internus, T42. Mediaftinum defcribed, 203. feroti, 414 Medulla oblongata, 35. Its fubflance, 36 Productions, ib. fpinalis defcribed, 40. Subftance and body, 41. Produc- tions, 42. Membrana atachnoidea, 39. • conjunctiva defcribed, 93. Ruyfchiana, 80. • tympani, 144. Haller’s opinion of its perforation, 132. Mefentery defcribed, 325. Its divifion, 326. Structure, ib. Mefocolon, 326. Motion, periftaltic, of the inteflines, 307, 347. Mouth, 156. Meaning of the word, ib. its external and inter- nal parts, ib. Myopes, why fo called, 111. N Nates cerebri, 28. Navicularis, the foffula fo called, 451.INDEX. 4^8 Nerves of the brain and fpinal marrow, 43. Of the medulla oblongata, ib. Firlt and fccond pair, 44. Third pair, 45. Fourth pair, 46 Fifth pair, ib. bixth, feventh, and eighth pairs, 47 Ninth and tenth pairs, 48. Nerves of the medulla jpinalis enumerated, 48, 49. Their productions, 50. Nerves of the nofe, 124. Of the lungs, very numerous, 260. Of the ftomach, 306. Of the intefiines, 329 Of the liver, 359. Of the pancreas, 370. Of the fpleen, very numerous, 374.. of the kidneys, 394 Of the bladder, 408 Of the parts of generation in males, 435. Of the parts of generation in wo- men, 450. Compofition, 62 Size of their fibres not known, ib. Their fubfiance very tender, ib. Different opinions con- cerning their folidity, 69. Suppofifron of an extreme rapidity in the motion of the nervous fluid, 72. Various arguments for and againft it, 72 Nofe, its external and internal parts deferibed, » r6. Of the nerves, 124. Cartilages, 118. Mufeles, 119 L'fes of them, 120. Arteries, 124. Nymphae deferibed, 453. Their fubfiance, ib. O Objetfs, whether or not painted on the retina, confidered, 109. Oefophagos/ its fit nation, figure, &c. 289. Omentum, 377. Its firrufiure, 378. Veffels, 381. little, deferibed, 378. Os orbiculare, 138 Officula auditus, 136. Ova, 446 Ovaria, 446. Their compofition and ligaments, ib. P 'Palate deferibed, 159. Palpebrae deferibed, 92. Pancreas deferibed, 368. Its fitn tcion, divifion, and figure, ib. , Papilla of the lireafi, 201. Its-body, texture, &c. 202. Pedes hippocampi. 27. Pedutrcuii cerebelli, 35. Pericardium, 2C7. Pericranium deferibed, 9. . . Peritonaeum, 295" Cellular fubfiance, io. Its proeitclions, 296. Round ligaments, ib. Pharynx deferibed, 182. its mufeles, 184. Phyfiology of tiie brain and nerves, j6. Pia mater deferibed, 2t. Pleura deferibed, 203. Its arteries and veins, 205. Nerves, ib. TJfe, 2c6. Plexus choroides, 30. . retiformis, 456. 1INDEX. 4*9 Pomum Adami, 170. Pons varolii, 36. Pori biliarii, 34.8. Preputium in men, 431. Prefbyopi, what, and why fo called, 112. Proltatae defcribed, 425. Pubes, 450. Pulmones, 96. , Pundla lacrymalia, 96. Pylorus defcribed, 304. R Rays, their divergency, refradtion, and refledlion, confidered ic6 • ’ Redlum, a divifion of the inteflines fo called. 323. Its arteries furndlied by the haemorrhoidalis interna, 331. Its veins ra- mifications of the mefaraica minor, 332. Its nerves, ib. Refradtion what, 106. Renes, 393. • fucccntnriati, ib. Refpiration,, 267. Wrifbcrg’s account of it, 287. Retina, 82. From what pioduced, ib. \ S Sacculus lacTymalis, 122. Saliva, 189 Scrotum delcnbed, 413. Sella turcica, 30. Semen, 436. Septum lucidum, 26. palati, 160 Sight defcribed, 102. Singing explained, t8r. Sinus venofus linilter, 216. vaginae, 450. venofi, 55. Smelling, 125. Sneezing, 286. Soul, its feat, 67. Sound explained, 150. Speech performed by means of the tongue, 181. Inftances of people who fpoke without one, 170. Spleen defcribed, 371. Cornfe of its lymphatic veflels, 374, Stapes, a bone of tire ear, 138. Succus ga(Incus, or llomacliicus, defcribed, 303. pancreaticus, 370.47® INDEX. Stomach, figure, curvatures, See. 299. life, 306. Supercilia, 90 Syftole, what, 220. T Tarfi of the palpebrae deferibed, 92. Tafte, how occafioned, 167. Tears, how produced, 103. Temperaments confidered, 240 Wrilberg’s account of them, 243- Teftes deferibed, 416. Their coats, ib. Tefles cerebri, 28. Thalami nervorum opticorum, 29. Thorax, 197 Its cavity, 198. Arteries and veins of it, 202. Thymus deferibed, 206. Tongue deferibed, 162. Papillae of three different kinds, 163. Its mufcles, 164 Ligaments and blood veffels, 166. Nerves, ib. Its ufes, 167. Inltances of people who fpoke without a tongue, 1 70. Torcular heiophili, 20. Trachea arteria deferibed, 261. Its feveral coats, 264. Tubae Faliopianae deferibed, 447. Tuberculae of the brain, 31. Different names given them by the antients and moderns, 32 qu idragemina, ib. Tubus Luftachiar.us, 145. Tunica vaginalis, See of the tcflicles, 415. . arachnoidaea, 22. choroides, 80, . fclerotica, 78. ■ cornea, 79 . Albuginea, 87. Tympanum, 134. U. V. Vagina, Sec. 454’ Valvula palati deferibed, 160. coli, how formed, 321. Valvulae arterialis, 214. femilunares vel figmoidales, 213. . trifcufpedes five triglochines, ib. _ mitrales,' ib. Conniventes, 310. Their formation, ib. Vafa deferentia, how formed, 422. . fpermatica, 419. Velum pendulum palati, 160. 147* INDEX. » Vena epiploica fihiftra, 381. • epipioica dextra, ib. portae hepaticae, 338. Venae pulmonares, 21b. ' cotonariae, 217. hepaticae, 358. • pudicae internae, 433. Ventricle, third, ot the brain, 29. fourth, 34 Ventriculi laterales, 26 Ventriculus, 299. Its coats, 301. Vefica urinaria, 405. Velicula feilis, 361. Vefrculae bronchiales, 263. feminales, 423. Vellibulum auris, (39. Voice, 178. How produced by the air in refpiration, ib. A- cute and grave founds accounted for, 180. Urachus delcribed, 406. Ureters, 393. Urerhra. 423. In women, 454. Urine, 409. Uterus, 443. Its canal, commonly called the neck, 444, Its fituation and fubftancc, 446. Uvea 81. Uvula defcribcd, 139. * W Weeping, 286. END OF VOLUME SECOND./ \ V % \ / /