144 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 3 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. vi. p. 161. the operation, it was said from inflammation of the brain. On autopsy, the internal carotid artery was found partly torn across, and the primary branches of the external carotid were found separated from the trunk.1 Incomplete lacerations of arteries, however, of quite another sort, occur not unfrequently, and, at the same time, are very interesting to surgeons. In these cases the inner and middle coats are torn, while the external tunic remains intact. The lacerated layers of the artery curl backward upon them- selves, and may thus completely close the channel of the artery, as happened in the following instance, reported by Professor Verneuil:2— A man, aged 46, after being thrown from a cart, presented the symptoms of violent delirium, right hemiplegia, and cerebral compression. Externally, only numerous con- tusions could be found. He died fifteen days subsequently. The autopsy showed complete rupture of the inner and middle coats of the left internal carotid artery, with a clot in its canal extending into the branches of the Sylvian artery. There was extreme softening of almost the whole middle lobe of the left cerebral hemisphere. In these cases, the lacerated inner and middle coats behave in a manner strictly analogous to that which we have shown above to obtain when these same coats are divided by the pressure of ligatures applied in tying arteries, or by the operation of Dr. Speir’s instrument for constricting arteries. In other words, the inner and middle coats of arteries may be torn through by accidents, while the external coat remains entire. In such cases the severed coats curl backward, or recurve upon themselves, exactly as they do in the operation of constriction or crushing of arteries performed with Dr. Speir’s instrument for the suppression of hemorrhage, described above (see Fig. 395); and, by their recurvation, these coats may entirely close the lumen of the injured artery. Again, when in such cases of incomplete laceration of arteries, the recurva- tion of the inner and middle coats does not suffice to block up the channel of the injured vessel, the pressure of the blood is liable to stretch the outer coat at the place of injury, and expand it into an aneurismal sac, thus furnishing a very interesting variety of traumatic aneurism, as happened in an example recorded by Mr. T. P. Pick,3 in which there was a rupture of the inner and middle coats of the femoral artery, caused by a strain, and followed by a gradual dilatation of the outer coat, and the formation of a traumatic aneurism. Gangrene of the limb set in, and the patient died shortly after amputation at the hip-joint. Digital compression had been previously tried for the cure of the aneurism, and, for a time, with apparent success. Treatment.—In cases where a limb has been torn or plucked completely off from the trunk by the action of machinery, it is generally expedient to tie the principal vessels on the face of the stump. The arteries that project above the surface, or hang out, should always be secured by ligating them with carbolized catgut, whether they bleed or not when the surgeon arrives. The integuments should then be drawn together, and the case treated as an incised wound. A good result has not unfrequently been obtained in these cases by this plan of treatment. As a rule, no tissue is cast off by sloughing or by ulceration, unless it has happened to be badly bruised by striking against some solid body—for instance, a ceiling or a beam. When a limb has been struck off by a cannon-ball, or a bomb, or any other form of shell, and thus its bloodvessels have been torn in two, it is always advisable to amputate the member at some higher point, if practicable ; for 1 Surgical Observations, vol. ii. p. 72, Am. ed. * Bull, de l’Acad. de M6d., Jan. 1871; and New Sydenham Society’s Retrospect, 1871-2, p. 84.