658 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. nearly the same injuries as those which produce luxations of the sternal end, that is, falls or blows upon the extremity of the shoulder. When the shoulder is powerfully driven inward, the force acting in the direction of the axis of the clavicle may produce dislocation of either the sternal or acromial end. The causes which determine one or the other accident we do not know. An upward blow striking the lower border of the bone has caused this dislocation, and, on the other hand, downward blows which spend their force upon the scapula without touching the cla- vicle, may tear asunder the acro- mio-clavicular bands. Pathology and Symptoms.—The rupture of the acromio-clavicular union by no means releases the collar-bone from its attachment to the shoulder-blade. The broad and strong coraco-clavicular band which anatomists describe as the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, is not injured in this dislocation, so that no great amount of separa- tion can take place between the bones. When, therefore, the acro- mio-clavicular capsule is destroy- ed, and the escaped outer head of the clavicle springs upward from its shallow socket, it cannot, like the sternal end, slip freely to any distance, but is checked abruptly by the coracoid ligaments, and departs less than an inch from its place. Impairment of motion and loss of power do not appear as prominent symptoms. Pain may be wanting. The shoulder droops and falls inward, so that the bone projects not only upward, but in all cases outward, forming a prominence above the head of the humerus, a little resembling the flattening of the shoulder in dislocation of that bone. The careful surgeon, however, can never mistake the true condi- tion upon close examination. There is no real flattening nor vacuity beneath the prominence, in dislocation of the clavicle. On the contrary, the round head of the humerus can be seen and felt in its natural place fully up under the acromion, and a straight edge laid along the arm will not touch the pro- minence by an inch or more. Beside this, the relations of the scapular processes and clavicle are easily ascertained by examining with the hand. In most cases the projecting head of the clavicle will be found to slip readily in and out of its place with a sensible “ click,” so that there will be little chance of mistaking the nature of the lesion. Treatment.—Reduction usually can be effected by pressing upon the ex- tremity of the bone. It could be maintained in the same way, were it not that continuous pressure upon a bone which is so superficial sometimes ulce- rates the skin, and puts an end to that form of treatment. Surgical reports show a certain percentage of failures from this cause. But it is to be borne in mind that we have the whole outer third of the clavicle to be utilized, and that with broad compresses the risk of injuring the skin is less. When gentle pressure upon the displaced head will not cause it to return, assistance may be rendered by having an assistant draw the shoulder outward as well as slightly upward and backward. The operation is simple and easy. The maintenance of reduction is rarely perfect, on account of the unwilling- Fig. 555. Upward dislocation of acromial end of clavicle.