336 SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. by the blood-current. These erosions resemble considerably the superficial erosions found often in the mucous membrane of the stomach. At times they are covered over with a layer of fibrin, which, upon close inspection, is found to be composed of one or more laminae of fibrillated fibrin, with cor- puscular elements entangled in or resting between them. Beneath the projecting intima is found a mass of inflammation tissue, con- sisting of embryonic and large anastomosing cells resembling the normal connective-tissue cells of the most external structure of the intima. Hyper- plasia of the normal cell-elements is more marked as we approach the inner layers of cells of which the intima is composed, the proliferation growing gradually less extensive as the elastic lamina is neared. This condition is a feature of acute endarteritis, and differs both from the inflammation of the atheromatous process and from syphilitic endarteritis. This mass of new-formed embryonic tissue is, in all probability, the imme- diate result of proliferation of the normal cell-elements of the intima. Emi- grant corpuscles could only reach this location by traversing the media, for as yet the capillaries have not been projected into the inner tunic. Nor is it probable that leucocytes from the blood-current within the artery involved, migrate through the endothelia into the proliferating mass. The adventitia does not long remain undisturbed by -the pathological changes which have occurred in the intima. It takes on an inflammatory process in a varying degree, and this tunic is found thickened from the pro- liferation of its connective-tissue cells. If the process be obstinate and per- sistent, a true arteritis is developed, and all the pathological conditions which have been described on a previous page, may be present. The media is not greatly altered in the early stages of endarteritis or periarteritis, though in calcification it is apt to be first attacked, as it is like- wise in fatty infiltration and degeneration. Acute endarteritis may terminate in recovery, leaving no permanent trace of its having existed, or it may pass Pio., 5i5. into a chronic inflammation, which usually ends in fatty degeneration. This degeneration begins in the endarteritis proper, and travels to- wards the media. The appearances of an artery which has undergone this change are well shown in Fig. 515. Fatty degeneration, in its micro- scopic appearances, resembles very much the atheroma which is, at times, found in the intima. It can, however, by gentle and care- ful scraping, be removed, revealing the more or less normal tissues un- derneath, while in advanced athe- roma, which involves the deeper structures first, no trace of the nor- mal tissues can be discovered. Arteritis with fatty degeneration. Fatty degeneration of , . . _ J the internal coat of the arteries from a thin layer stripped &CUL0 0I1C1211 u0FlLlS^ <XS il&S D0011 lllCll-’ from this membrane, a, Fat granules in irregular patches Cated above, although the Chl’Onic over the surface The granules have resulted from fatty arterjaj leSionS, aS a rule, begin degeneration of the cells of the intima. b, Fibrillated tissue. Magnified 200 diameters. (Cornil and Ranvier.) With periartei’ltlS 01’ meSartei’ltlS.