561 WOUNDS OF NERVES. lished a case of tetanus which supervened after an amputation of the thigh, and was attributed to the presence of a ligature knot in the sciatic nerve. It has not been proved, as previously mentioned, that foreign bodies in nerves can become encysted or be tolerated. In all these cases the consecutive symptoms are dependent upon the exist- ence of neuritis, and at times the changes are so far advanced, that a return to the normal condition does not take place, even after the removal of the foreign body. This, indeed, is the first indication to be fulfilled. In a case in which the pain persisted in spite of the removal of a grain of lead imbedded in the median, M. Le Fort obtained a cure by the operation of elongation or nerve- stretching. Ligation of Nerves.—The study of foreign bodies in nerve-wounds leads to the consideration of the ligation of these organs. The importance of this accident, which may occur in various operations, renders it proper to devote a short space to its consideration. Its study may be pursued both from the side of experimental research and from that of clinical observation. Experimental Facts.—Researches upon this point have been made for a long time by several authors, among whom may be mentioned Thierry, Valsalva, Descot, and Arloing and Tripier. The latter have determined that small nerve branches are almost severed by the thread ; in the case of larger branches, the constriction never immediately interrupts the continuity of the nerve, on account of the resistance of the neurilemma, but the transmission of impres- sions does not take place. If a nerve has been tied at the same time as an artery possessing thick walls, by immediately removing the ligature, the in- tegrity of a certain number of nerve fibres may be counted upon; this is important in regard to the motion of the parts. If the ligature is rapidly removed, the nerve subsequently presents a swollen appearance on a level with the point of compression. The anatomical changes which follow ligation have been well described by Descot. There occurs a plastic infiltration above, below, and around the ligature; the two ends of the nerve are maintained in exact apposition by the thickening of the surrounding cellular tissue ; they are never separated from each other. Arloing and Tripier in their experiments have determined that animals feel pain at the moment of constriction, and that the functions of the nerve are interrupted; they have never observed any secondary nerve symptoms. Clinical Facts.—Surgeons at the beginning of this century, while endea- voring to avoid including an artery and a nerve in the same ligature, did not believe that any danger could result from such an accident. Larrey and Swan opposed this opinion, and the former, in a case of tetanus, suspecting that one of the branches of the crural nerve was included in the ligature, cut the latter with the effect of producing a remission in the symptoms. We have already cited a case of Descot’s, in which, the patient dying of tetanus, a ligature-knot was found in the sciatic nerve. In a case of Rieherand’s, the ulnar artery and nerve were included in the same ligature:— “ A sharp pain was felt in the ring and little fingers at the moment at which I tightened the knot,” says Richerand; “ the palmar surface of the little finger and the ulnar side of the ring finger lost their sensibility; this was gradually re-established, and they had recovered it at the end of fifteen days.” To recapitulate: Ligation of nerves, according to experiments upon ani- mals, has not caused secondary nervous accidents; but can it be said from this that it must be the same in man ? Unquestionably not. In some cases vol. hi.—36