ANEURISM. 432 tissues that lie between the artery and the skin ; we separate the vein from the artery with blunt hooks, and so we uncover all the dilated part of the artery ; then we pass under it a probe with a rounded end, and raise up the tumor. After that we glide along the probe a needle armed doubly with thread, cut the thread close to the needle, so that there are two threads and four ends.” These are then tied, the one above, the other below the dilatation. “We afterwards open the tumor by a little cut on its middle, so that all its contents may be evacuated without danger of bleeding. But this manner of separating the artery and isolating the aneurism is difficult, and often the force and power of the pneuma drives off the threads. If the aneurism originate in a rent of the artery, we grip in the fingers as much of the aneurism as we can, together with the skin, and we pass under the part so held a needle with a double thread, either of flax or of tendon (ij -kivov fj I'fvpdi-).1 After pushing through the cord we cut it close to the needle, so as to leave two strings.” These are tied above and below the tumor, which is then incised and evacuated, its greater portion, except that included in the thread, being re- moved together with the skin; “and thus it is done without bleeding.” The procedure which our writers2 on aneurism term the “ old operation,” and wrongly attribute to Antyllus, is entirely different, inasmuch as in the method still occasionally practised, and which Mr. Syme tried to revive, the sac is opened before tying the artery, which is sought for from within. The procedure is this: The artery is compressed above the tumor sufficiently to annihilate all pulsation ; the surgeon cuts through and turns aside soft parts until he reaches or closely approximates the sac, which he opens (or, if the tumor he superficial, he may open it at one cut); he then clears the clot away, and feels for the opening into the vessel, into which he passes a probe. This is to act as a guide to enable him to extend his incision, and to tie the artery above. He then seeks the vessel below, and treats it in a similar way. Afterwards the clots are more entirely cleared away, and the wound is loosely stufl'ed with lint, charpie, or tenax, and left to suppurate or to slough. Occasionally, even now, as will be seen Avhen we come to speak of special aneurisms, an operation closely resembling this proceeding is the only means of saving life, and, if the patient escape the exhaustion of the after processes, the aneurism certainly is fully and permanently cured. It is most often applicable in that form of wounded or ruptured artery which is injudiciously named diffuse traumatic aneurism; occasionally when the usual deligation has failed; or when after such an operation, or after flexion or pressure, the sac of the aneurism has burst. But the labors of more modern surgeons, principally directed by Harvey’s discovery of the circulation, which led to the perception that the clot in the sac was not a dangerous, but, on the contrary, a salutary condition, have gradually modified the use of the ligature in many ways. Deligation in the continuity of an artery affected with aneurism, is described as proximal (between the tumor and the heart), or distal (beyond the tumor). The application of a proximal ligature close to the sac of the aneurism is called the method of Ariel; its application at a considerable distance, so that one or more branches are given off between it and the sac, the method of Hunter. The two differ essentially in their conception and physiological effects. Wherever possible, the latter method is at the present day employed; but in certain localities, as in certain aneurisms of the carotid, subclavian, or 1 This word may also mean nerve, cord, or the string of a lute. I translate it tendon. Busse- maker and Daremberg, the translators of Oribasius into French, render it “ boyaux,” thinking, probably, of catgut. 2 Except Broca, who has noticed the dangerous and painful operation above described.