WOUNDS OP TENDONS. 15 Injuries and Diseases op Tendons. Ruptures op Tendons.—Much more frequently than similar injuries of mus- cles, ruptures of tendons may take place as the result of sudden violent efforts, the occurrence of such an accident being indicated hy a snap, often both felt and heard, by pain, by immediate arrestation of muscular movement, and when the tendon is, as is generally the case, in the lower extremity, by falling of the body. Oftentimes there is a visible depression at the place of injury, and upon palpation a distinct sulcus of varying width can readily be detected, the examination when made early causing little or no pain. The entire ten- don generally gives way, but partial rupture may take place. In the majority of cases it is either the tendon of the rectus femoris below or above the patella, the tendo Achillis, or the tendon of the triceps extensor or that of the biceps flexor cubiti, that is broken, the relative frequency being in the order stated. As in the similar injury of a muscle, approximation of the separated ends of the tendon is to he favored as much as possible by posi- tion and appropriate bandaging, and rest must be maintained, best by immo- bilization of the limb. From six weeks to two months is usually required for the completion of the repair. The loss of muscular power generally resulting from the presence of a long connective-tissue band between the ten- don ends (and it is in this way oftentimes that repair takes place), makes it probable that when there is wide gaping the wisest course is to suture the tendon at once, a procedure that, antiseptically carried out, seems to he attended with very little risk. When there is rupture of the tendon of the rectus femoris, or of the liga- mentum patellae (and these should be considered with reference to this acci- dent as one and the same tendon of insertion, with a contained sesamoid bone), it is almost always due to an unusual and involuntary muscular con- traction, the fall being secondary, the consequence and not the cause of the injury. As in fracture of the patella, from which lesion alone a differential diagnosis is to be made, there is immediate inability to lift the extended leg, and more or less inflammation of the knee-joint is likely to be quickly developed. In rupture of the tendo Achillis, it is generally impossible to either stand or walk, and the tendinous interspace can be shortened by forced extension, and lengthened by forced flexion of the foot upon the leg. When the long head of the biceps flexor cubiti has given way, the part of the muscle steadied by the short head will be seen upon voluntary contraction to be thrown pro- minently into relief, while the rest remains flaccid. Wounds of Tendons.—These may be either punctured, subcutaneous, or open. The former are usually of little importance, either no symptoms being manifested, or slight ones only, spontaneously passing off' in the course of a few hours or at most days. At times, however, as the result ordinarily not so much of the prick as of the entrance thereby of septic material, severe inflammation is developed, with consequent suppuration within the sheath and necrosis of the tendon, or with grave constitutional disturbance that may be the cause of a fatal result. Complete subcutaneous wounds, typical examples of which are met with in operations of tenotomy, are attended with a distinct snap and decided separa-> tion of the" ends of the tendon, with consequent depression at the seat of injury, always to be felt and usually to be seen. The attendant hemorrhage is slight, and the pain not severe. Plastic effusion takes place around and between the separated ends of tendon, a connective-tissue callus is developed, contrac