81 TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. ulnar, anterior temporal, facial, etc. For the femoral, iliac, axillary, sub- clavian, or carotid arteries* saddler’s silk is sufficiently stout to supply the liga- ture ; and for the largest arteries, saddler’s silk, when doubled, affords a liga- ture of sufficient size and strength. Ligatures should be cut from nine to twelve inches in length. They should also be well waxed, for thus their limpness is overcome, their knots hold better, and they.prove less irritating from the coating of an animal substance which they' have received; the best liga- tures, however, consist of carbolized strings of animal origin, as for instance, catgut, kangaroo sinews, whale-tendons, etc. Arteries that are wounded must always, if possible, be secured by liga- tures at the very place where they are wounded. For this purpose the wound in the exterior parts must be sufficiently enlarged under the guidance of the fingers, and the blood-clots thoroughly cleared out with the lingers or with a carbolized sponge. And, while the exterior parts are held asunder with re- tractors, the surgeon must, carefully prepared and guided by a good knowl- edge of anatomy, proceed toward the bottom of the wound until the injured artery is found*. ITe then must separate it from its cellular sheath, carefully ligate it above and below the injured spot with carbolized catgut, and divide it between the two ligatures, so that both ends of the divided vessel may be able to retract. If, notwithstanding this double ligation, blood still wells up from the bottom, some other vessel must be injured. Such bleeding often results from the injury of a branch which is given off from the posterior wall of the main artery at the wounded spot. To ascertain this condition of things, the injured piece of artery between the two ligatures may be cut out. Or the bleeding may proceed from some other branch which is injured in the fur- ther course of the wound. In either case, the vessel must be sought for, and an attempt to close it with a ligature must be diligently made. If, besides the artery, a large vein be wounded, this is made known by the fact that, in spite of the ligation of the artery, dark blood in large quantity flows from the wound, especially if pressure be made at a higher point. Such venous hemorrhage may generally be arrested by a light compress or by the tampon; but if not, the injured vein must also be tied in the wound. These operations are often difficult; they can, however, be made easier by employing Esmarch’s apparatus for elastic compression. (Fig. 856.) But, to drive out all the blood from the limb is not recommended, because one can- not then easily recognize the empty veins, nor avoid injuring them. It is therefore sufficient to apply the elastic bandage above and below the wound in such cases. The circulation is thereby entirely arrested, while the veins remain full, and can always be quickly refilled by a momentary loosening of the lower or distal bandage, should the blood escape from them in the course of the operation. Moreover, in performing this operation, on which the life or death of the patient depends, no dread ought to be entertained of enlarging a small stab or a? shot-hole into a very wide and deep wound, when necessary to lay bare and tie the bleeding vessel. If this operation of tying the injured artery in the wound, which is called direct ligation, be impracticable, on account of the depth or the relations of the injured artery, or because the wound is closed, and it is not desirable to open it again, as, for instance, after amputation or excision, the trunk of the bleeding artery must be ligated at the nearest convenient spot, on the plan of Anel’s operation. After the hemorrhage has been suppressed, antiseptic dressings must be applied, and drainage tubes should also be inserted whenever suppuration is likely to occur. vol. hi.—6