703 original functions may be predicted. When the luxa- Fig. 576. DISLOCATIONS OP THE KNEE-JOINT. and this has much to do with the prognosis. Anchylosis sometimes occurs here, as in other joints, when synovitis sets in after reduction. Usually, however, after replacement, a good recovery of all the tion is not reduced, there remains great imperfection of the limb, but in many cases more mobility and strength for walking exist than would naturally be anticipated. Treatment—In a certain number of cases, where the dislocation is not quite complete, it may often be re- duced by manipulation alone without resorting to extension. For this purpose the patient may be laid upon liis back, with a cushion under the calf of the leg, but not extending above the knee, thus leaving a vacant space beneath the lower portion of the thigh. Direct efforts are now to be made by the hands of assistants to press the femur backward, while the joint is rocked backward and forward, and occasion- ally laterally, to facilitate replacement. Failing in this, Hamilton recommends that the limb should be forcibly flexed, and then extended still further, in order to free it from resisting fibres, and that then reduction by pressure on the femur should again be tried. Alternate flexion and extension may in this way be tried several times, when, if reduction be not accomplished, extension and counter-extension by means of pulleys or other apparatus, or simply by the hands of two assist- ants, may be invoked to assist the reduction, the surgeon continuing the manipulations already described. Dislocation op the Head of the Tibia Forward.—In this injury, the tibia is found to be projected forward upon the condyles of the femur, which are correspondingly projected backward, bulging into the popliteal space. The important vessels and nerves of this region are frequently so pressed upon as to cause numbness and absence of pulsation below ; and occasionally rup- ture of the popliteal artery may give rise to extravasation or traumatic aneurism. Treatment.—Reduction may be accomplished in essentially the same manner as in backward dislocation, except that the forced flexion there recom- mended should not be employed. If pressure alone will not effect replace- ment, and extension seem called for, as is often the case, the latter may be applied by the hands of assistants, or by pulleys, with perineal bands for counter-extension, the surgeon, by preference, keeping his own hands free to conduct the necessary manipulations. Lateral Dislocations op the Head op the Tibia.—The lateral disloca- tions are usually incomplete. In displacement of the head of the tibia out- ward., there is considerable lateral movement, but not complete separation of the joint surfaces. The articular facet which normally supports the inner condyle of the femur is carried outward, and rests under the external con- dyle, while the external facet of the tibia is carried out still further. As regards pathology and symptoms, the inward luxation is similar to the out- ward, except for a reversal of the direction of displacement. The external appearance of the knee shows the prominence of the femur and the tibia upon opposite sides. There is no shortening of the limb, but