INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 138 « Medical-and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 412. the same time briefly, discuss this important subject by relating a few cases taken from my own note-book and from the “ Surgical History” of the late War. A cavalry-soldier, aged 24, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under the writer’s charge, from the field, June 4, 1864, for a wound of his right leg at the ankle, in- flicted by a minie-ball, on May 31. It was resolved to continue the effort, which had already been commenced, to save the limb. On the night of the 7th, arterial hemor- rhage from the wound supervened, and about a pint of blood was lost before it was checked. On the morning of the 8th, I amputated the wounded leg, at the place of election, by the flap-method, under sulphuric ether, with but trifling loss of blood, and but little shock; and after the operation the patient’s general condition was favorable. Examination of the amputated member showed that the posterior tibial artery had been grazed by the missile, and that several small bits of bone had been driven into the walls of the artery at this place. The hemorrhage had occurred from ulceration of the bruised part of the artery, and from detachment of the minute fragments of bone that were stuck in it. The ankle-joint was full of purulent matter, the lower end of the tibia was badly comminuted, and the astragalus also was injured by the missile. The patient did well for some time; but thirteen days after the operation he died of pyrnmia. In this case, primary amputation ought to have been performed, or the artery ought to have been secured primarily with the ligatures above and below the bruise, because the injury was of such a nature that otherwise secondary hemorrhage was inevitable. A soldier, aged forty, wounded May 28, 1864, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under the care of the writer, on June 12. A conoidal ball had passed through the ankle- joint from within outward, in such a way as to involve the track of the posterior tibial artery. On the next morning, while the assistant-surgeon was in the ward, arterial hemor- rhage from the wound suddenly occurred, and about three ounces of blood were lost before it was suppressed. I was immediately brought to the patient. There was then no pulsa- tion in the posterior tibial artery at the ankle, while that of the anterior tibial could be distinctly felt. It was evident that the hemorrhage proceeded from the posterior tibial artery. Without delay I had the patient etherized, and I amputated his injured leg in the lower part of its middle third, with but little loss of blood, and with little or no shock. Examination of the amputated limb showed that the posterior tibial artery had been grazed and contused by the missile; and that it had been opened by exulceration of the bruised portion of its walls, whereby'the hemorrhage was caused. The lower end of the tibia, the astragalus, and the os calcis had severally sustained comminuted fracture. The patient died nine days after the operation, apparently from exhaustion; but I believe that he had osteo-myelitis, and that this caused his death. In this case, too, the chance of recovery would have been much increased by primary amputation, or by tying the artery above and below the bruise in the primary period; because the nature of the arterial lesion was such that in the absence of these operative procedures the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage was inevitable, and only a question of time. A western cavalry soldier was wounded in the neck by a conoidal ball, which entered above the outer third of the right clavicle, and emerged above the middle third of the left clavicle, on July 4, 1864, in a brawl. Simple dressings were applied. Secondary hemorrhage from the common carotid artery occurred on the 11th, which was tempor- arily controlled by applying liquor ferri persulph. ; but, on the 12th, the patient died. The autopsy revealed an aperture in the carotid, about two lines in diameter, and about three-fourths of an inch above its origin.1 In each of these three cases the hemorrhage was due to the normal separa- tion and detachment of bruised tissues from the walls of an important artery. There is another form of gunshot contusion of bloodvessels which belongs to the same category, hut is much more extensive: “ When a limb is crushed