333 ARTERITIS. a new tissue which undergoes fibrillation and contraction, a process of cica- trization, to such an extent that the new-formed, capillaries are more or less Fig. 510. Traumatic arteritis. Transverse section of the carotid artery of a dqg, fifteen days after ligature ; 6, granula- tion buds formed from projection of the intima. In the centre cf the figure one of these buds has been completely cut across ; m, portion of the media modified by the inflammatory process ; e, adventitia ; V V, vessels cut across, one of which is newly formed in the intima. Magnified 15 diameters. (After Cornil and Ranvier.) occluded, and the artery shrinks to become a fibrous cord. (Fig. 511.) Or the coagulum may undergo fatty degeneration and be swept away with the current of blood, the vessel remaining pervious and bearing but little trace of the inflammatory process through which it has passed. The microscopical appearances of a localized traumatic arteritis are typically represented in Fig. 512, which is copied from a section made from the carotid of a horse. The animal was in a healthy condition at the time of the operation. I tied the artery with a broad carbolized ligature, the sciatic nerve of a calf. It wTas tightly drawn and tied in a double knot. The wound was washed out with five per-cent, carbolic-acid solution, and sewed up. It did not unite by first intention. In the fifth week the animal was killed. The artery was pervious. The location of the ligature was easily recognized by the peculiar, whitish, pearly appearance of the intima at the point of tying, where it was slightly elevated. The adventitia did not show any changes to the naked eye. The ligature had evidently slipped soon after the operation, probably within a few hours. The intima was not broken, but simply bruised within the grasp of the ligature. Active proliferation of the cells of the intima had resulted from this irritation. Hot only is the intima seen to bulge into the lumen of the vessel, but the mass of embryonic tissue encroaches outwards upon the media, which is thinner at this point than elsewhere. At one point the media has entirely disappeared, leaving the intima and externa in actual contact. The adventitia has not undergone much change. A few inflam- matory corpuscles are found among the connective-tissue bundles. If, after an injury which induces arteritis, the vessel be not occluded throughout the