SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 342 I last saw her before death, which occurred suddenly one night. I did not see her until life was extinct, but from the description of the mode of death given me by Dr. F. J. Ives, who was present, I was led to express the belief that a similar condition existed as in the case first referred to. On exami- nation, I found a thrombosis of the basilar artery in exactly the same location. Fig. 521 represents a section of the artery near the thrombus. The lumen of Fig. 521. Syphilitic arteritis. Section of basilar; E, lumeu of vessel about two-thirds filled with new formation at A B; c, media; D, muscular layer and adventitia. From a patient dead from syphilis. (Specimen of the author’s, drawn by Dr. Wardwell. Magnified about 40 diameters.) the vessel is seen to he about two-thirds occluded. The adventitia is slightly thickened, and the cell elements in it are distinctly fusiform, and regularly parallel with each other and with the contour of the adventitia. The wavy elastic layer is easily recognized, and in that portion of the artery in which the syphilitic inflammatory material is deposited, the waves of the media are more numerous and shorter than in other portions of the vessel. In the centre of the mass, occupying a portion of the calibre of the artery, is found a hyaline-looking spot which takes the carmine stain more readily than the general mass of the thrombus. It contains embryonic cells in about the same quantity as the surrounding tissue. The adventitia is not regularly thickened, being three or four times as deep in some portions as in others, and presenting in the section a nodulated appearance. Viewed with a mag- nifying power of about five hundred diameters, that portion of the arterial wall external to the wavy line (the elastic layer) seen in fig. 521 presents the following appearance:— In the most external limit of the section of the adventitia, there are found clusters of inflammatory corpuscles, true embryonic cells, round, and larger than the cells found in any other portion of the specimen external to the elastic lamina. These cells are somewhat smaller in size than those found in the new-formed tissue of the intima, though they differ in shape, since those in the intima appear both round and fusiform, while the cells in the outer edge of the externa appear almost invariably round. It may be possible that they are fusiform cells cut transversely in the section, though after care- ful examination I am led to conclude that they are .round. At various points these cells do not exist, the external layer being that of fusiform cells