SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 267 Intermediary hemorrhages from wounds where from any cause the bleed- ing vessel cannot be tied on each side of the aperture, and in the wound itself, not unfrequently require that the main artery should he ligatured as near the wound as practicable, on the cardiac side. This operation was at- tended with success in two cases related above. Professor Hamilton says:— “ These intermediary hemorrhages are pretty frequent in military practice, and do not receive the attention they demand. If it were not that surgeons cannot always spare the time, "when the number of wounded is very great, to make a very critical search for vessels which do not at first bleed, we would say that such bleedings implied culpable negligence on their part; but, however this may be, the omission to give it prompt and careful attention now, can only be excused on the ground of an extraordi- nary necessity. Some of these patients, left to themselves, bleed to death ; but it more often happens that, in the hope of arresting the bleeding by pressure alone, or by cold applications perhaps, the surgeon entrusts the matter to an attendant, until the track of the wound and the adjacent structures become filled with coagula, which greatly increase the difficulties of subsequent ligation of the vessel; and which coagula, if the bleeding finally ceases, become depots for the formation of pus, thus greatly retarding the final cure. In the case of amputations made on the field, the same observations will apply. The intermediary hemorrhages lift the flaps, and prevent all possibility of immediate union. It is far better in such cases to re-open the wound, remove the clots, and tie the vessels ; although it may be somewhat mortifying to the surgeon who made' the original dressing, since it is apt to be construed into a reflection upon his skill.”1 Secondary Hemorrhage. By the term secondary hemorrhage we designate all bleedings from wounded vessels which occur subsequently to the establishment of suppura- tion, that is, subsequently to the fifth or sixth day after the infliction of the wound, and, likewise, all losses of blood occasioned by the spontaneous rup- ture or opening of the sac in cases of traumatic aneurism. This accident, in general, belongs to the secondary period in the history of wounds, strictly so called, and is closely connected with the processes of suppuration, ulceration, and sloughing, which pertain to that period, but especially with the unhealthy forms of suppuration. It may occur during any part of the secondary period; but, according to the statement of surgical writers, it is more liable to hap- pen between the seventh and twentieth days, and especially about the four- teenth day. Before the seventh and after the twentieth days it is not often met with. I have, however, known several instances in which secondary hemorrhage occurred on the fifth and sixth days, on the one hand, and on the twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth, thirty-first, forty-first, forty-second, sixty- ninth, and eighty-fifth days, on the other. Causes.—On investigating the clinical history of secondary hemorrhage, we find that it is produced by a considerable variety of proximate physical agencies:— (1) This form of after-bleeding often results from contused wounds and contusions of the coats of arteries. A great many examples have already been mentioned in this article. In such cases, the bleeding is restrained until the bruised portion of the arterial tunics which becomes a slough is separated from the sound portion by a suppurative exulceration, and then the blood immediately begins to escape from the bruised vessel. The following ab- 1 Military Surgery, pp. 213, 214. New York, 1865.