SUTURE OF NERVES. 621 when Cruikshank established the reality of the cicatrization of nerves; the second, from 1776 to 1864, the epoch of the publication of the work of Weir Mitchell upon Gunshot Injuries of Nerves, after the war in the United States; the third, finally, from 1864 to the present time (Poinsot). During the first period, the possibility of the cicatrization of nerves was denied by some (Hippocrates and Galen) and admitted by others, some of whom (Guillaume de Salicet, Lanfranc, Guy de Chauliac, etc.) even recom- mended the suturing of these organs. Unfortunately, the confusion which then existed between nerves and tendons does not authorize us to dwell upon the opinions of these authors. At all events, this practice was very little in favor, since Ambroise Pare does not even speak of it. After the labors of Cruikshank, Fontana showed the nervous nature of the cicatrix of nerves, and recommended their suture, which was also subsequently advised by Dupuytren, who, however, admitted the possibility of the cut nerve being substituted by the anastomoses to which Horteloup attributed, even exclu- sively, the re-establishment of the functions of the peripheral end. Finally, the clinical period opened with the work of Weir Mitchell and the observations of N"elaton, Laugier, and Richet, at the same time that the apparent contradictions between the clinical and experimental results were explained by the investigations of Messrs. Arloiug and Tripier on “ sensory- motor substitution.” We shall first study the indications and operative manual of nerve-suture, and afterwards we shall see the results furnished by this operation in the small number of cases that have been published, and we shall inquire what conclusions can be drawn regarding its utility in respect to the re-establishment of nerve-function. Indications.—Although, according to some authors (Vulpian, Tillaux, Magnien, Dubrueil, Poinsot) every complete division of a nerve is amenable to the suture, agreement upon this matter is far from being unanimous, and from this point of view it becomes important to divide complete sections of nerves into three categories, according to whether they are simple, compli- cated with more or less considerable destruction of the neighboring parts, or accompanied with crushing or laceration of the cut extremities. When the section is clean-cut and simple, without extensive wound of the integument, the suture should not be resorted to unless the separation is con- siderable ; but it may be required when there are found extensive lesions of the skin and neighboring parts, so that position alone is not sufficient to cause the extremities of the nerve to come together (Jamain and Terrier, Tripier). The indication for suture is still more urgent if the nerve has experienced a loss of substance. When the section of the nerve is accom- panied with crushing, most authors agree in advising suture after resec- tion of the contused part, except Tripier, according to whom this practice increases, without any benefit, the causes of inflammation of the nerve and soft parts. Finally, reference must be made to the opinion of Follin, who positively rejects the suture of nerves. This operation should naturally be done as soon as possible after the acci- dent. It is important to perform it before the appearance of suppuration. It may, however, still be practised in order to reconstruct a nerve, the ex- tremities of which have separately cicatrized (Tillaux, Letievant); it is then necessary to make a more or less extended resection of the nerve extremities, or to employ one of the procedures of nervous autoplasty, described by Letie- vant, which will be mentioned in connection with the mode of operating. Operative Manual.—The operation of nerve-suture includes four stages: (1) Searching for the ends of the cut nerve; (2) Their examination and