438 ANEURISM. 1 Anatomical abnormity; excessive freedom of collateral circulation; and vascular rigidity, preventing expansion of side branches. (1) Anatomical abnormity, such as the existence of a double vessel, or a high division of the primary trunk, may at once interfere with the result of opera- tion, by causing continuance of pulsation in the tumor after the ligature has been tightened ; or, as has sometimes happened, though the pulsation may cease, and all be considered well, it returns in a few minutes, or in an hour; the aneurism does not solidify; and, if not further treated, it continues to grow. (2) A similar but generally less rapid recurrence of pulsation and failure of treatment may result from too rapid enlargement of the side channels, which indeed may be already excessively developed, either from natural for- mation, from the check to normal circulation produced by pressure of the tumor, or from the unsuccessful application of indirect compression. We may therefore, after deligation, form the following conclusion: If the recurrent pulsation has commenced after the iirst hour, and not later, or not much later, than the twentieth, if it remains slight and hardly expansile, and if the tumor continues to be hard, it may be taken as a favorable or at least as a not unfavorable circumstance, since it is evidence that sufficient blood enters the sac to form a good strong clot, and also that circulation enough has been established to eliminate all fear of gangrene. But if, instead of remaining slight, the pulsation increases, more especially if its appearance has been later —from five to ten days or more after the operation—if the tumor again be- comes softer, ceases to decrease, or perhaps even increases, however slightly, the deligation for and by itself has probably failed, and some additional mea- sures will most likely be required. Pulsation returning some months after deligation, when the tumor has been some time hard and has sensibly decreased, indicates, as a very general rule, the occurrence of a fresh aneurism in the diseased part of the artery which lies near the original sac. (3) When the branches of the tied artery, instead of being elastic and dila- table, are rigid from disease, or are unduly compressed by the tumor itself, hy the diffused blood of a ruptured aneurism, or by improper circular constric- tion, gangrene of the limb below the seat of deligation is likely to ensue. The same event may follow undue exposure of the part to cold, or indeed any too potent application of warmth to an extremity rendered cold by the opera- tion. Therefore it is more likely to occur in, old than in young patients, in the lower than in the upper extremity. The higher the operation, the more imminent is this danger; for instance, unless in a subject advanced in years, or in one whose superficial arteries may be felt hard and rough from calca- reous or atheromatous deposit, we may tie the superficial femoral with merely a remote chance of gangrene ; but if the common femoral, the external iliac, or a fortiori the common iliac, be tied, sphacelus may more reasonably be dreaded. It is not a danger confined to deligation: I have known it to fol- low indirect,1 and more especially direct pressure.2 In some instances, and this may be inferred when the gangrene is unusually moist, it is owing less to arterial causes than to obstruction of the veins, either by pressure of the tumor itself, or by interference with or inflammation of the vein at the seat of operation. The most usual time for the commencement of gangrene is between the third and fifth, or even up to the tenth day. Late sphacelus, for it may, as 1 For instance, in Mr. Holmes’s case of ilio-femoral aneurism mentioned on page 13 of my monograph on Aneurism (1880), hut not as far as I know published elsewhere. 2 Gangrene may result, in cases not subjected to operation, from the mere pressure of a large aneurism; hence if artificial compression in the situation of the tumor he added, the risk of such an event is hy so much increased.