357 CIRSOID ARTERIAL TUMOR. part of the left leg, which up to her twelfth year had grown about as large as an almond. At 15 she first noticed that pulsation began in it. After this date it grew more rapidly, projecting, however, very slightly from the surface, until, at the age of 22, it began to ulcerate without any assignable cause. Hemorrhage occurred, which ceased by compression, but not until syncope had ensued. Repeated bleedings occurred up to her twenty-fifth year, when the injections were commenced. From July 12 to August 23, seven injections were made. Ulceration began, and frequent hemorrhages occurred between October 12 and 18, which were arrested by the actual cautery and compression. Cure resulted at the end of eleven months. Case II Cirsoid Arterial Tumor of the Forehead with Arterial Varices; Hemor- rhage during many years; four Injections of Perchloride of Iron; Cure Patient was a man, aged 39 ; was born with a red mark on his forehead, which disappeared at his tenth year. About nineteen years later, when in his twenty-ninth year, a tumor was noticed in the same place, about as large as a cherry stone, and two years later he felt it begin to pulsate. After that time it continued to grow, and was the source of frequent hemorrhages without any direct injury or known cause. The patient had controlled the bleeding by compression. At the time of operation, the growth was about two inches in diameter, and projected from the skin about one-third of an inch. February 12, while pressure was made on both primitive carotids, injections were made with two syringes, one needle being introduced on each side of the tumor. The compression of the carotids was continued ten minutes. The tumor still pulsated at points. Compress applied ; pain was severe during the day of operation and the next day following. Operation repeated on the 1st of March. March 13, tumor was solid and without pulsation throughout two-tliirds of its extent. Two injections made. March 20, tumor began to ulcerate at two limited points, which were soon filled with exuberant granulations. These resisted alcoholic dressings and the application of nitrate of silver. March 24, pulsation re-appeared at one point, and the injection was repeated. May 20, the granulations persisting, actual cautery was applied. Same on June 6. July 8, patient discharged, cured. Case III. does not differ materially from the two preceding cases, either as to its clinical history or as to its treatment. The results of this method of treating vascular tumors are gratifying, and the operation, is worthy of repetition. In growths of small size, I should prefer to try the method of Barwell, and, if this failed, then the injection of perchloride of iron or other coagulating solution. The success achieved by Spence and Helaton with galvano-puncture was such as to justify further trial of this method. Cases of spontaneous cure of vascular tumors are reported. Dr. Kracko- wizer presented to the Hew York Pathological Society a patient in whom pulsation had entirely ceased in a cirsoid tumor which was contracted, solid, and shrivelled at various points; the peculiar rustling noise, also, of which the patient had complained, was now entirely absent when he was quiet. The man was forty-five years of age; the tumor was congenital, and had grown to a considerable size, but without pain or hemorrhage. Dr. Kracko- wizer referred to two other cases recorded by Orfila and Chevalier.