497 CAROTID ANEURISM. lady was in perfect health, but of late had grown considerably thinner. There was very visible pulsation on a level with the thyroid cartilage; at each systole the tumor looked nearly the size of a pigeon’s egg; the pulsation, which was markedly expansile, ceased on compressing the carotid below. To the touch, a rather considerable dilatation of the artery was evident, but not as great as it appeared to sight—some of the expansion being certainly venous, probably from pressure of the dilated part of the artery on the jugular vein. I carefully measured the limits of expansile pulsation, and watched the case closely during a fortnight, and in that time found no change whatever. Relaxing my vigilance, I saw the patient then onlyfrom time to time. In February, 1879,1 happened to meet at her house her younger sister, who told me that previous to her marriage, which happened just before she was twenty, my patient had been very thin, and she (the sister), with others, had often noticed a great beating on the right side of her neck, and that the spot looked then, as far as she could remember, exactly the same as it did at the time of speaking. After marriage, and until lately, the lady had been considerably stouter, and it is likely that the increased embonpoint overlay and concealed the pul- sation. While avoiding unnecessary interference, we are to remember that, if the tumor be increasing, no time should be uselessly lost; the growth is in this situation usually rapid; nor is there very much room to spare. Such aneur- isms tend, as a very general rule, upward, yet, combined with growth in that direction, a certain downward extension may also occur. If in growing the tumor come to cover the trunk of the artery, the difficulties and dangers of treatment are enormously increased. Many of the resources of surgery, useful in other situations, are inapplicable to carotid aneurism. Coagulating injections, and even galvano-puncture, would be dangerous in this place.1 The parenchymatous injection of ergot might be tried by one who had faith in it; and direct pressure by means of a truss-like instrument of a horse-shoe shape—a somewhat modified Signoroni’s tourniquet—might be employed if the aneurism were small and firm. But, in truth, our means of attack are almost limited to proximal pressure and ligature. There is, no doubt that indirect pressure, combined or alternated with the direct, may cure a certain class of aneurisms of the neck, as also of the orbit. The compression may be in part instrumental; thus, for instance, a Cole’s com- pressor may be used with the hand. Mechanisms carrying movable arms (adap- tations of Carte’s instrument to the neck) generally disappoint both surgeon and patient. Digital compression is much more bearable, and, in truth, if a sufficient staff can he mustered, is much more easily effected. The place where the least amount of force exerts the greatest influence, is the carotid (or Chas- saignac’s) tubercle, as the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is called. Generally, pressure on any part of the vessel produces after a time vertigo, tinnitus aurium, faintness, and a sense of sickness. This is generally attributed to disturbance of the cerebral circulation, but I believe wrongfully. It seems to me that interference by compression with the sympathetic, perhaps also with the pneumogastric nerve, is more likely to be the cause of the un- pleasant sensations. After a certain number of sittings the parts become accustomed to the manipulation, and the unpleasant symptoms diminish. Another mode of compression, that of Rouge, may be substituted for, or may alternate with, that just described ; to effect this, the patient’s head must be so placed to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle, on one side of which the surgeon places his thumb, on the other his finger; then insinuating them behind the muscle, he, as it were, pinches the carotid between them. The manoeuvre is best and most easily carried out some distance above Chassaignac’s tubercle; 1 The gas-bubbles and. tar-like fluid, described at p. 415, might act injuriously on the brain. VOL. III.—32