REFLEX PARALYSIS. 577 delayed. Brown-Sequard -has seen an analogous case. “ I was consulted,” he says, “ by an American officer, who, in consequence of a gunshot wound of the cervical and brachial plexuses of the right side, became paralyzed, to a slight degree, in all four extremities, but especially in the right arm and left leg.” In all of these cases, in spite of the primary gravity of the phe- nomena, amelioration rapidly followed, and recovery gradually became- complete. Cases of this kind are rare. To "Weir Mitchell’s cases may be added those of Larrey. This surgeon reports, in his Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, that during the campaign in Syria, very slight wounds of the shoulder were followed almost constantly by complete or incomplete paralysis of the corres- ponding limb; “ which never occurs in Europe,” he says, “ at least if the principal nerves are not cut or disorganized.” He explains these palsies by' lesions of some superficial branches of the cervical pairs, and attributes also a certain influence “ to the asthenic and stupefying qualities of the climate of Syria;” while Weir Mitchell, connecting these palsies with the pheno- mena of cerebral excitement, consecutive to traumatism, of which we have just spoken, explains these cases by a kind of local determination or nervous commotion. In place of an impression upon the cardio-motor centre, there is observed only a counterstroke upon the emotional centres, upon the me- chanism of ideation, upon a sensory ganglion, upon a limited group of motor cells. Why the brain should be affected in one case, the heart in another, the motor cells in a third, it is not possible to know. The immediate appearance of paralytic symptoms in consequence of the traumatism, and their usually rapid cure, differentiate the cases of this first group from others which we may place in a second category, and in which the spinal disturbances are more tardy, being slowly developed, and having no tendency to recovery. After a wound which has more or less directly involved a nerve-branch, there appear, usually after a considerable interval of time, symptoms either of subacute myelitis, of muscular atrophy, or of locomotor ataxia. Locomotor ataxia, it may be said at once, is rare. A certain number of cases of ataxic tabes which seem to have been developed in consequence of peripheral traumatisms, have been published, but in no case has there been a localized injury of a nerve; the lesions have been such as have involved some extent of the integument or of the limb, such as an amputation of the leg (Vulpian), chilblains (Duplay, hTicaise), and contusions. The spinal phe- nomena usually noted as resulting from nerve injuries are symptoms of sub- acute myelitis, with muscular atrophy. One of the first cases of this kind was published by Charcot in 1856. A vigorous man had a diffused phlegmon of the left forearm, which required five incisions. One of these incisions, made over the course of a branch of the radial nerve, injured, no doubt, this nerve-twig. Soon after, the patient felt the strength of the left arm diminishing, and was seized with sharp pains, with formication—recurring in paroxysms and starting from the cica- trix which corresponded to the radial branch—with nearly complete anaes- thesia, with paralysis and atrophy of the muscles, and with a bullous erup- tion upon the dorsal surface of the hand and fingers. During more than a year, the left side alone was affected. Afterwards, the patient experienced a sense of feebleness and numbness of the hand and forearm of the right side. Muscular atrophy gradually ensued, as well as anaesthesia. When M. Charcot saw the patient two years subsequently, the anaesthesia seemed to be extend- ing^ towards the upper part of the limb. This case may serve as a type; the course followed by the symptoms in this case is that observed in all that have been published. Pains appear first in vol. hi.—37