SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 350 smaller vessels), in one there was arteritis deformans, and in only one of the cases noted was there no coexisting atheroma. Since atheroma is a disease resulting from malnutrition of the vessel walls, and since syphilis is a blood-impoverishing disease, it ,can he easily conceived that atheroma of the larger arteries would occur in the later stages of syphilis, after the arteritis proper to this disease had been established in the smaller and remote arteries. While the atheromatous pi’ocess commences in the deeper tissues, advanc- ing in the line of blood supply to the arterial walls, producing fatty infiltra- tion of the elastic tunic and degeneration of the muscular fibre-cells and of the cells of the intima, and while in severe cases the normal tissues disappear, and the vessel dilates to such an extent that the artery (despite the temporary thickening of its walls, due to the inflammatory process) is much larger in calibre than normal, the syphilitic process is especially prone to attack the intima, and, while it is not entirely confined in its depredations to this coat, the changes it produces are never as constant in the other coats as in. this. Atheroma causes a weakening of the walls and general or saccular dilata- tion; syphilitic arteritis tends to more or less complete occlusion of the vessels, due to inflammatory cell new-formation (chiefly) of the intima. And while the inflammatory process may be somewhat aided by the direct irritation of the poisoned blood current passing along the vessel in contact with the intima, I believe that this inflammatory poison travels chiefly in the line of blood supply through the vasa vasorum. Rheumatic Arteritis.—Arteritis may occur in connection with acute rheu- matism. Bryant states that this is a rare form of disease. Rheumatic endo- Fig. 527. meters.) carditis is not so rare, and it is possible that endarteritis may exist in the aorta in many cases of endocarditis. This and the arteritis of gout and nephritis (Fig. 527) belong to the domain of medicine, rather than to that of surgery, and will not therefore be considered in this work. The treatment of arteritis resolves itself simply into the treatment of the disease of which it is a part. It would be useless to increase the length of this article by a recapitulation of the various methods and remedies which have been employed. If the pathogeny and pathology of the affection are understood, its therapy is not difficult.