630 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. five to eighteen months. Indeed, traumatic neuralgias are those which furnish the greatest number of successes. Spasmodic affections of traumatic origin have also been treated by this pro- cedure. It is known that the first intentional elongation was done by hTuss- baum for a contracture consecutive to a contusion of the arm, and that his patient was cured, recovering even the lost sensibility of the dorsal skin of the forearm. In tetanus, elongation has given several successes, attri- buted to Vogt, Verneuil, Clark, Hatton (of Madras), and others, when the operation has not been done too late, and when all the nerves coming from the diseased region have been elongated. Eecovery has also been obtained in some cases of reflex epilepsy, with well-marked aura. We have seen that, in Hussbaum’s case, the sensibility returned as a result of the elongation. Blum has also obtained a recovery by employing this operation in a case of traumatic paralysis of sensation and motion in the forearm. This surgeon ex- plains the result by the feebleness of the traction, which increases the conduc- tibility of the nerves; but Laurie, of Lahore, and Bomfort, obtained analogous results in patients attacked with antesthetic leprosy, by making very strong traction, and in some cases in spite of rupture of the nerves during the ope- ration. These patients were not under observation long enough after the operation for it to be known if their recovery was definitive. Elongation has also been proposed by Wecker1 for certain affections of the optic nerve, but this author has as yet only performed it upon patients who were irrevocably blind, so as to study its influence upon pain, hallucinations, etc.; the operation did not have any annoying result. Elongation of the optic nerve has also been practised by Pamard, of Avignon.2 Certain affections of the spinal cord are also amenable to elongation. It has been recently quite often performed, especially in Germany, for the relief of the shooting pains of locomotor ataxia, and this operation, which has been practised upon the sciatic nerve in most of the cases, often makes the pain disappear, and ameliorates for a longer or shorter time the motor incoordina- tion ; this amelioration was maintained to the end, in a case of Langenbuch’s, the patient dying three months after the operation in an attack of epilepsy. In a case of probable cancer of the spinal cord, successive elongation of both sciatic nerves caused a cessation of the intolerable pains, the first time for fifteen days, and the second time for five days.3 Vussbaum cured, by elon- gating the femoral and sciatic nerves, a patient who had suffered for eleven years from paraplegia with contracture, ivhich had followed a fall upon the sacrum. Finally, elongation has been unsuccessfully tried for the cure of the lesions consecutive to infantile paralysis, and for those following cerebral hemorrhage. In brief, the principal indication for elongation is the exaggeration of the direct or reflex sensory-motor irritability of the nerves, and, in particular, neuralgia. This operation should only be attempted when all other means of treatment have failed; but for / the spinal nerves it should be preferred to either neurotomy or neurectomy. For the cranial nerves, we have said that it is necessary to be very reserved in its employment. Elongation is also indicated in traumatic contractures, tetanus, and reflex epilepsy, the surgeon being careful, in the latter cases, to elongate all the nerves which come from the focus of irritation, to interfere early, and to repeat the elongation a cer- tain number of times, as advised by Johnston, if the first produces only a 1 Wecker, Annales d’Oculistique, t. lxxxv. p. 134. 1881. 2 Societe de Chirurgie, 12 Avril, 1882. 3 Lamarre, Contribution a Tetude de l’elongation des nerfs dans les affections medullaires. Revue de Chirurgie, Juin, 1881.