NEUROTOMY AND NEURECTOMY. 637 may well be, at least in part, examples of spontaneous recovery, such as are observed now and then in neuralgias which have resisted all treatment. In a great number of cases, after apparent recovery, more or less rapidly obtained, relapses occur. Thus, the statistics of 21 cases collected by Dennis show:— 6 relapses at the end of from 12 to 18 months. 3 “ “ “ 6 to 12 “ 4 “ “ “ 1 to 6 “ 4 “ before the end of 1 month. 4 cases without relapse, kept under observation from 1 to 2 months. This shows how necessary it is to be cautious in affirming the radical cure of a neuralgia, and during how long a period a relapse may be feared. This may depend, (1) upon the neuralgia being due to a primary central lesion, or to a central lesion consecutive to a peripheral lesion, and persisting after the operation; (2) upon the existence of an ascending neuritis ; (3) upon the neuralgia having its seat in the recurrent fibres ; (4) upon the painful nerve not having been cut; (5) upon an adjoining painful nerve having been left intact; or (6), when the relapse is delayed, upon the cicatrization of the two ends of the nerve. It is to avoid this accident that many surgeons prefer neurectomy to neurotomy. It seems, finally, that in certain cases it is not positively known how the operation acts, or why relapse occurs. We may suppose that neuralgia is more often of central origin than is generally believed; and we may recall the fact that those who have suffered amputation frequently complain of neuralgia in the part of the limb which has been removed. Subsequent operations will vary according to the cause to which it is be- lieved that the return of the pains should be attributed. Among the most obstinate neuralgias are those of the face; they are also those in which sur- gical treatment is the most difficult from an operative point of view. As regards the exact proportion of successes and failures of nerve-section, such as might be deduced from a complete statistical record, it varies accord- ing to the nature and seat of the neuralgia, and a gross number represent- ing the average of all the operations performed upon all the nerves would be of no value. It may be said, however, that neurotomy counts a great number of absolute or relative successes, the value of which is the greater, since this operation is employed only, as a last resort for neuralgias which seem incurable by other means of treatment. Neuralgic pains may be also observed in the zone of distribution of a purely motor nerve. These pains may be due either to a lesion of the recurrent fibres, which the neighboring sensory branches send to this motor nerve, or to an alteration of the motor nerve itself, indicated by spasmodic movements, which are the immediate cause of the pain. In the first case, the branches which send the recurrent fibres should be cut; and, in the second case, if the motor nerve is to be dealt with, elongation, with or without crushing, should be first tried ; and afterwards, neurotomy or neurectomy, if necessary. Section of motor or mixed nerves has, moreover, been practised for the cure of obstinate functional spasms. It has been done especially upon the spinal accessory and muscular cutaneous nerves. In these cases, I repeat, elongation should be preferred to neurotomy, except, as has already been pointed out, in the case of the cranial nerves. It may, however, be necessary to resort to neurotomy, as shown by a case of Annandale’s, in which resection of the spinal accessory nerve was required for the relief of a functional spas- modic torticollis of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which had resisted elongation.1 * Annandale, Lancet, vol. i. 1879, p. 555.