INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. 602 sity of the pains which they determine, or of the modifications which one of the tumors may undergo. In multiple neuromata, the prognosis is generally serious. Treatment op Neuromata.—This may be divided into the medical and the surgical treatment:— (1) Medical Treatment.—This has but little effect upon tumors of nerves, except in the case of syphilitic gummata. But it is often very efficacious in relieving the symptoms of neuromata, especially the pain. This often de- pends upon the general state of the patient, whether arthritic, malarial, syphilitic, or neurotic, and an appropriate treatment may then cause it to disappear. Ice has been employed as a local application, and antiphlogistics have been used; in the case of my patient with multiple neuromata, I ob- tained the disappearance of all the symptoms, except the presence of the tumors themselves, by giving large doses of bromide of potassium. (2) Surgical Treatment.—This is indicated when medical treatment has failed, and is directed against large, fibrous or sarcomatous tumors of nerves, or against those which are the seat of sharp, insupportable pain. The importance of the nerve is not a contra-indication, particularly as in a certain number of cases the operation has been followed by a re-establishment, more or less complete, of the functions; the existence of several tumors is not always a contra-indication. Sometimes, in cases of multiple neuroma, one, two, or three tumors are painful, while the others remain indolent; the painful tumors should then he removed. In the case of the patient of whom I have already spoken, I have thus performed several operations, and at the present time he enjoys perfect health. Operations employed for Nerve- Tumors.—The cauterization of nerves and nerve-tumors, practised in former times, and recommended anew by Legrand, in 1858, is almost never employed at the present time. Recourse may be had to the following procedures (1) Enucleation.—Virchow divided neuromata into complete and partial neuromata, according to whether all or part of the nerve-fibres were impli- cated in the neuromatous process. In the partial neuromata, the tumor, occu- pying only a portion of the nerve-trunk, may be removed by enucleation without injuring the healthy part of the nerve. For this purpose, the tumor having been exposed, its connections with the nerve are examined, then the neurilemma which covers the tumor is incised, and an attempt is made to dissect out the growth from the nerve, since if even a few of the nerve-fas- ciculi are uninvolved, it is desirable to preserve them, in order to facilitate the regeneration of the nerve and the re-establishment of its functions (Roux, Velpeau, Bickersteth, Letievant, Lanelongue). If the tumor has a groove excavated in it, which incloses the nerve, the operation is easy; it is the same if the case is one of lateral or pedunculated tumor (Voillemier, Lebourcq). If it is possible, there should be left a portion of the nerve, when the tumor is non-malignant; but if it is a sarcomatous tumor, for example, the nerve should be resected at a higher point. (2) Extirpation.—This is the operation most frequently adopted; all the diseased portion of the nerve is removed, care being taken to make the first section of the nerve above the neuroma, in order to diminish the pain and reflex phenomena. After the operation, an attempt is made to approximate the ends of the nerve by position or by suture (Nelaton, Notta). Extirpa- tion is also recommended in cases of plexiform neuroma. (8) Neurotomy.—When the nerve is so deeply situated that it cannot be reached, or that the operation presents too many dangers—or even if several