728 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. ments, or simply opened, or may suffer any intermediate degree of destruc- tive action. In bullet wounds of the shoulder, the orifice in the thick deltoid muscle is apt to contract and resist the free exit of pus, and lead to a destruc- tive burrowing of septic fluids. If the joint be opened, and the bone merely notched or grooved by the bullet, without being shattered, it will not usually be necessary to amputate or excise, but only to open the parts freely, and treat them antiseptically. If the bone be shattered, we have to consider more energetic measures, or, in other words, we must choose between amputation and resection. For a shoulder-joint badly shattered by a bullet, mere con- servative treatment is too dangerous to be considered. The Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, it is true, seems to show an advantage of several per cent, in favor of expectant treatment, but if we reflect that the cases selected for this plan were the least severely injured, the appa- rent statistical advantage is more than accounted for by the mildness of the cases. He would be a rash man who should be so infected with conservatism as to leave to unaided nature a shoulder-joint filled with bony gravel from the comminution of the humerus. As between amputation and resection, the difference shown by several collections of statistics is only about two per cent. The most valuable tables on this subject are those collected by Dr. Otis, in the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, and by Dr. H. Culbertson, in his prize essay, published by the American Medical Association in 1876. The brevity of this article does not admit of a full statement of all the statistics bearing on this subject, but from a careful search of the literature of both continents, supplemented by the above-named documents, I have been able to condense the following results:— Mode of treatment. Cases. Expectant treatment ...... 577 Amputation at shoulder for traumatic causes (nearly all gunshot wounds) ...... 1177 Resection of shoulder in similar cases . . . 1408 It will be seen, therefore, that resection appears to be somewhat safer than amputation, besides preserving a very useful limb. As between primary, intermediary, and secondary operations, the intermediary are considerably the most, fatal, but the primary and secondary do not greatly differ. The con- clusions are obvious:— (1) In gunshot wounds of the shoulder, with but slight injury to the bone, we should open the joint widely, and treat it antiseptically. (2) In comminuted fractures, where the circulation and innervation are tolerably well preserved, we should resect the joint. (8) Where the innervation and circulation are destroyed, or nearly so, we should amputate. (4) Primary operations are to be preferred. Gunshot Wounds of the Elbow-joint.—The degree of comminution of bone in these injuries varies extremely, but even in the most favorable cases, the results of the wound are very serious. The complexity of the joint is such that it is difficult to drain it, or disinfect it, with any completeness; hence purely conservative treatment has not such success as one could desire, even when the bones are but slightly injured. Demme and Salzmann give the mortality of conservative treatment at sixty per cent., yet in General Sherman’s campaigns, Drs. Andrews and Woodworth found only twenty-five per cent, of deaths, showing that in well-selected cases expectancy is admis- Deaths. Mortality PER CENT. 144 25 457 39 518 37