SYMPTOMS OF ANEURISM. >91 8 A few non-aneurismal tumors occasionally emit a distinct bruit, as will be noted immediately. the separate beat of the artery immediately above and below cannot be verified, the sacculated form of aneurism may be suspected. I say suspected, because every tumor which pulsates is not an aneurism; the pulsation must be of that peculiar quality which we term expansile—that is to say, when the swelling is grasped in the fingers of one or both hands, the beat must seem to drive them apart; it must not merely lift the hand as by a wave propelled from below, but the swelling must be felt to dilate and enlarge with every beat of the heart. If the aneurism be so situated that the artery above it can be compressed, pulsation ceases when such presence is exercised, and the tumor becomes smaller and flaccid—may, indeed, almost entirely dis- appear ; by manipulation, unless it contain a large quantity of clot, the sac may be still further emptied.1 The surgeon should now mark well the size of the enlargement, and let the pressure above be suddenly removed, when he will see or feel the more or less abrupt restoration of size and re- filling of the sac. In some cases, that is, when the aneurism has a large mouth, this enlargement is very sudden—with one beat of the heart the whole sac is filled as by a leap or plunge; when the mouth is small, several pulsations, perfectly visible and distinct, are required to fill the tumor; but I would draw especial attention to the fact that the initial pulsations are as strong, or very nearly so, as the usual throbs of the tumor. They do not begin weak and increase slowly. Sometimes in aneurisms whose walls are thin and are not thickly lined by clot, compression on the vessel below will cause a certain slight, and almost momentary, enlargement. This symptom, when present, is a useful aid to diagnosis—its absence predicates nothing as to the nature of the malady. Generally, the vessels beyond an aneurism beat less forcibly than in the normal state; less forcibly, for instance, than those of the other limb. When vessels leading to the arm, or even to the head, are affected, this symptom is more easily appreciated than when those leading to the lower limbs are involved, since the arteries are better placed for feeling the pulse; we may, in the case of the arm, gain greater accuracy by the em- ployment of the sphygmograph. Bruit.—A symptom which is often present, though frequently absent, is a sound at each pulsation. It varies greatly in quality and character, being in some cases a mere thrill or purr, in others an almost flute-like noise, a creak, a rasping or a sawing sound. It appears that its characters, and even its existence, depend upon the size, shape, and situation of the sac’s mouth, and perhaps also in part on the nature of the surroundings. Abdominal and thoracic aneurisms, for instance, are rarely accompanied by any bruit.2 This sound, when present, is very conclusive evidence of the nature of the disease,3 but its absence in no way negatives the presence of an aneurism. I have known several aneurisms which, during some part of their progress, emitted well-marked sounds, and at other stages were quite noiseless; as also many that have been silent throughout. These intrinsic symptoms of aneurism can be verified with ease when the disease is external, but if it be internal many of them cannot be made out until the tumor has attained a considerable size—more or less, according to situation—that is to say, until it has to a cer- tain degree approached the parietes. A tumor, for instance, on the third part 1 This method of research should he very cautiously, if at all, employed, since the clot which may have formed is liable to displacement, when its beneficial action would be prevented, and perhaps danger of embolism evoked. 2 A peculiarity of sound to be noted hereafter is very generally observable when the disease is intrathoracic—viz., the second sound of the heart is abnormally loud over the tumor, while no such exaggeration is perceptible over the heart itself.