SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 326 external coats is, in great part, artificial and imaginary. Moreover, many of the veins contain no muscular tissue, while their connective tissue varies in quan- tity in different parts of the body. The sinuses of the dura mater, the veins in hones, and those of the retina, have no muscular fibres, while the jugulars, subclavians, and venae cavae have a relatively small quantity, or are entirely devoid of this tissue. Again, the arrangement of the muscular tissue differs in different veins. The inferior vena cava and the portal and renal veins have an inner, circular, and an external, longitudinal layer, while the femoral and popliteal veins have the longitudinal fibres more internal. This tissue is still more complicated in the saphenous veins, where the internal layers are arranged longitudinally, with a number of alternating, or transverse and longi- tudinal, layers placed externally to these. The elastic layer begins immediately external to the basement substance which supports the endothelial layer, and is here somewhat isolated and well defined; but from the external surface of this central, elastic lamina springs a network of elastic fibres, through the loops and in the meshes of which are woven the muscular and connective-tissue fibres. The vasa vasorum follow the connective-tissue bundles in their distribu- tion to the tissues of the wall down to the elastic layer. .Nerves from the sympathetic system have been demonstrated in the larger veins. The valves are delicate reduplications of the internal coat, having a well- defined, elastic reticulum, especially on their distal or convex surface (Heitz- mann), and muscular fibres at the point of attachment to the venous wall. The vascular area—the outer and middle layers—is first concerned in the inflammatory process. The endothelial tunic, as a result of these structural changes, is subsequently involved in the process. It then appears cloudy, thickened, and rough, and may become separated in shreds. (Frey.) In the vascular area, during the earlier stages, the capillaries of the vasa vasorum become swollen, the white corpuscles emigrate into the extra-vas- cular spaces, and the normal connective-tissue cells are stimulated into rapid proliferation, resulting in a thickening of the wall,, due to the presence of these embryonic cells, and the excessive hyperaemia. As in arteritis, the vitality of the endothelial tunic becomes impaired, and it is more or less pro- jected into the cavity of the vein, the endothelia undergoing rapid prolife- ration. After a few days, granulation-buds push out from this embryonic tissue of the endothelia, and new capillaries are developed in these granula- tion-masses, anastomosing and becoming a part of the circulation of the vasa vasorum, as well as leading into the coagulum which occupies the calibre of the vein. At the point of contact of the outer surface of the thickened endothelial layer with the internal surface of the middle (elastic) layer, large sinuses are developed, which receive the blood from the capillaries of the middle tunic. These sinuses are lined with an endothelial layer, which rests upon the contiguous connective tissue. From these large vessels fine capillaries are given oft*, which permeate the thickened internal layer, and some of which pass into the organizing coagulum. When a thrombus, caused by the sudden coagulation of the blood in a vein, is examined in its recent state, it is found to be composed of successive laminae of fibrin and corpuscles, and the more recent of these laminae are external. When the vein is first occluded by this sudden coagulation of the blood, the pressure from behind is so great that the coagulum is compressed toward its centre, while the current, more and more impeded in its progress, flows between the periphery of the clot and the inner surface of the vessel, adding layer by layer fresh deposits of coagulation upon the thrombus. A microscopical examination of such thrombi reveals a vast number of white