INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 246 varices or varicose aneurisms. When the lips of the wound in the artery adhere closely to the lips of the wound in the vein, and the blood flows from the artery directly into the vein, aneurismal varix results ; but when the lips of the wound in the artery adhere less closely to the lips of the wound in the vein, and the pressure of the arterial current separates the wall of the artery from the wall of the vein, and the blood, by condensing before it the lamina of fascia and connective tissue at the wound, forms a pouch or sac lying be- tween the two vessels, varicose aneurism results. The prognosis in a case of aneurismal varix or varicose aneurism is much less serious than it is when the artery alone has been opened; for a portion of the arterial blood is pro- jected into the vein at each pulsation, and thus the pressure or strain upon the injured parts is considerably lessened. Thus, too, the occurrence of great swelling and of rupture is usually avoided. Aneurismal Yarix.—By this term is meant an enlarged and tortuous, or varicose, condition of a vein, resulting from a simultaneous wounding of the vein and its contiguous artery, whereby a communication between the two vessels is established. The arterial blood which is projected into the vein at each pulse-beat, dilates it more or less extensively, and causes its wall to thicken. Dr. William Hunter first described this lesion.1 Scarpa, however, claims that Guattani should equally share the merit of the discovery, because he Fig. 444. published two undoubted cases of aneurismal varix.2 But, Dr. Hunter’s observations on this disorder were published in the years 1757 and 1764 ; while Guattani did not see his first patient until the year 1769, and his book was not published until the year 1772. An instance of this disorder had previously been mentioned by Sennertus. Symptoms.—With the history of a previous wound, aneurismal varix is characterized by a circumscribed tumefaction, usually small and bluish in color, formed by a dilated vein, possessing a peculiar tremulous motion, and attended with a peculiar thrilling, hissing, or buzzing noise which arises from the passage of blood through a small aperture in the artery*into the dilated vein. This peculiar sound is sometimes said to be like that made by a fly on a pane of glass, or in a paper bag. The tumor is generally accompa- nied by a varicose state of the neighboring veins. It is soft, and disappears entirely under direct pressure. It subsides when the limb is elevated so as 1 Medical Observations and Inquiries, vol. i. p. 340 ; and vol. ii. p. 390. 2 Treatise on Aneurism, Wishart’s translation, p. 190.