480 ANEURISM. abdominal contents. Of the fatal cases, one involved the superior mesenteric artery. In a non-fatal case gangrene resulted, the external iliac was tied, and amputation performed. Agnew records a successful compression of the com- mon iliac for aneurism of the external iliac artery.1 Three cases of distal compression of the aorta have failed, one under Marshall’s, and another under my own care, while the third2 terminated fatally from the usual cause, bruis- ing of the viscera and peritoneum. Deligation of the abdominal aorta has hitherto, in the human subject, proved invariably fatal. Whether surgery is permanently to accept the defeat, we shall consider in the sequel. Astley Cooper first performed this operation in June, 1817, on a man thirty- eight years old, who, having aneurism of the external iliac artery, suffered profuse hemorrhage after pressure, which involved the sac. The operation was performed through the peritoneum, and the man lived 40 hours. The latest case is that recorded by Czerny, of Heidelberg, in 1879, for hemorrhage after extirpation of the kidney. In all, there are on record 10 cases: 4 under- taken for hemorrhage (2 secondary, in aneurism), and 6 for aneurism without hemorrhage. Cases of the former class are very unfavorable, even when much smaller vessels are tied. Of these 10 cases 6 were, if the phrase be allowable, foredoomed to death, either by concomitant disease, or by mishaps during the operation. Talcing these cases in chronological order, the complications were:— 1. Escape of inflated intestines ; breakage of aneurism needle, and long search for it among folds of mes- entery; insuificient care in closing bleeding vessels, 2. Bladder disease ; dilated ureter .... 3. Bursting the sac by manipulation ; inclusion of the ureter in the ligature 4. Fatty degeneration of heart3 ..... 5. Very complicated injury, caused by the previous con- dition rather than by the operation, which ter- minated in a different procedure from that origin- ally intended . . ..... 6. Malignant disease of kidney ; nephrectomy Death in 4 hours. “ “ 23 “ “ “ 26 « “ “ 10 “ A very unfortunate list, of which it can only be said, that in four of the cases death would probably have followed smaller operations, while in the two others either inherent difficulties or insufficient skill, rather than the necessary sequeke, led to a fatal result.4 In the only four cases which were free from unfortunate and unnecessary complications, the patients survived for 40 hours, 48 hours, 65 hours, and 10 days 21 hours respectively—lapses of time more than sufficient to show that the chief theoretic objection, viz., oppression of brain and heart through over- fulness of blood, is no necessary result of the operation, even though, as in Cooper’s case, the vessel be tied above the duodenum. The causes of death in these four cases are, therefore, of the highest degree of importance; unfor- tunately they are not all obtainable. The first patient (Cooper’s) died unmistakably of peritonitis; nor can we take as a negative its apparent absence on post-mortem examination, because the earliest signs of that condition are not easily detected, while in this in- 1 Philadelphia Medical Times, Sept. 4, 1875. 2 Bryant, Medieo-Chirurg. Trans., vol. lv. p. 225. 3 A more necessarily fatal complication can hardly he conceived. 4 The subject of the fifth case in the above list (Czerny’s, of Vienna) died of sloughing of the injured part, together with the admission of air or gas into the open veins. The morning after the operation, he smoked a cigar with pleasure.