INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 212 beck, as already mentioned, teach the same important lesson. In both, union by the first intention occurred. In Guthrie’s case of lateral ligation, the healing was so perfect on the ninth day that there was no mark to indicate where the thread had been applied. In Langenbeck’s case, an autopsy on the twelfth day showed the “ vein completely healed, without trace of clot, redness, or thickening of its walls,” that is, without any trace whatever of any inflammation. All surgical observations prove that ligatures may fearlessly be applied to veins, as I)r. S. W. Gross has ably shown in an exhaustive article on wounds of the internal jugular vein and their treatment, published in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, for January and April, 1867. The danger of exciting phlebitis and pyaemia by ligaturing veins is an exploded doctrine among surgeons. The dread of setting up diffuse phlebitis by ligaturing veins is based on prejudice, and not on experience; it is doubtless due to the influence of authorities who have pronounced against the operation (Bryant). This doctrine had its origin in the mistaken views on suppurative phlebitis and thrombosis which were current among pathologists some years ago, but which have long since been abandoned. The truth is, as I have just shown above, that the judicious application to wounded veins of carbolized catgut ligatures, or any other good antiseptic ligatures of animal origin, will lessen much the risk of diffuse phlebitis, putrefactive thrombosis, septicaemia, and pyaemia. In hemor- rhages, too, from wounded veins, the antiseptic ligatures just mentioned should be fearlessly applied whenever advisable to restrain the bleeding. Lateral liga- tures, however, should not be employed, from the risk of secondary hemor- rhage which attends their use, as Roux’s experience, to which I have already referred, has amply shown. Some writers advise, in similar cases, to stitch together the aperture in the side of the vein with a fine thread; but this practice, likewise, is a dangerous one, and altogether unreliable. Whenever veins are ligatured, an antiseptic thread of animal origin must be made to encircle the whole vessel; and a separate ligature must be passed around it on each side of the aperture in its walls. Moreover, wounded veins should always be tied in this way without delay, when pressure, properly applied, fails to restrain the hemorrhage. Ligation of Artery and Vein simultaneously for Venous Hemorrhage.—When a large vein is wounded and bleeding, Professor Langenbeck recommends that, as an haemostatic measure, the accompanying artery should be tied as well as the injured vein. He believes that “ when both artery and vein are tied, not only does gangrene not follow, but there is less disturbance to the capillary circulation than when the vein or artery alone is tied.” He states that, by simultaneous ligation of both artery and vein, “ an equilibrium is maintained between the arteries and veins until the collateral circulation is established.” Two observations which I have already presented strongly sup- port these views. One of them was a case related by the late Dr. George McClellan (page 202), in which, the femoral vein being lacerated, the femoral artery was ligatured, the hemorrhage was easily restrained by compression, and the result was successful. The other occurred to Professor Agnew (page 202); in it, the hemorrhage from a punctured femoral vein ceased on apply- ing a ligature to the accompanying femoral artery, and did not recur.^ That gangrene is not an inevitable result, and is but rarely to be expected in such instances, is well shown by the cases of Professor Grillo, of Naples, who in- cluded the femoral artery and vein in the same ligature in fifteen cases of aneurism of the ham or lower part of thigh. These were all successful; while in fourteen other cases, in which the artery was isolated and tied alone, there were two deaths from secondary hemorrhage.1 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1867, p. 334.