400 ANEURISM. as used here, denotes that at some point the blood of the tumor is no longer circumscribed within a sac wall, however constituted; but that through a rent, greater or less in size, it has escaped, either outside of the body, into pre- viously unaltered tissues, or into a cavity, passage, or duct. The first form of rupture can only he by an open wound, sometimes trau- matic, sometimes pathological, as when a phagedenic sore, or an abscess already discharging externally, opens also into an aneurism. In such an event, the more or less sudden appearance of a stream of bright arterial blood denotes with sufficient clearness what has occurred. Unless this be checked by nature or by art, faintness, deliquium, and death, soon follow. If checked, reaction of the system may yet bring on another hemorrhage, perhaps to be effectually commanded, perhaps proving fatal. If the sac burst into a cavity or tube, the symptoms vary according to the situation and function of the part; their description must be relegated to a future occasion. But here we may notice certain differences as to the mode in which an aneurism bursts into serous or mucous-lined cavities. In the former case, the event is usually rapid; the rent is slit-like or stellate, with ragged edges; sometimes, if the sac have for sometime pouched into the cavity, a considerable amount of thickening subtends or surrounds the open- ing. But rupture into a mucous cavity is a slower process, the round or nip- ple-like intrusion becoming first either ulcerated or gangrenous, when a little sinus-like track, or a small crack, permits the remittent escape of a few drops of blood at variable intervals. Afterwards, perhaps on some exertion, vol- untary, emotional, or reflex, the slough or the floor of the ulcer gives way, and a sudden gush of blood into the cavity destroys life, either simply by loss of blood, or by interference with the functions of the inundated part. Occa- sionally, however, an aneurism thus ruptured may, nevertheless, continue to increase, and, the hemorrhage being small, may destroy life by pressure. If an aneurism burst into a joint, the synovial sac becomes exceedingly swollen, tense, and very painful; in some cases it pulsates. The diagnosis is then facilitated ; otherwise it must chiefly be founded on the history, and on the many points of difference between this state and an acute synovitis. Aneurisms, too, may open into large veins, or even into one of the cham- bers of the heart. This subject will be discussed under the head of arterio- venous aneurism. An external aneurism may become ruptured without any outer wound dif- fusing its blood among the tissues of the limb. The rupture may either take place by a large rent and a sudden subfascial hemorrhage, or very much more slowly. In the former case, the symptoms are strongly marked and alarming: the patient generally feels something give way, or snap; then has a sickening sense of faintness; has to sit or lie clowm; becomes pale, and covered with clammy perspiration; and complains either immediately, or very soon, of vio- lent pain in the limb, which rapidly swells. The tumor, whose existence was probably known, loses its definition, perhaps its outline altogether; that is to say, although the general tumefaction chiefly gathers about the site of the aneurism, no distinct and separable tumor can be felt there. Pulsation altogether ceases, not merely at its old place, but throughout the limb, except at its top; thus, for instance, the lower end of the axillary, or the common femo- ral, may be felt to beat, but below no arterial pulse can be found. The whole part feels numb and helpless to the patient, pain being to him the only sign of its life. Very soon it becomes hard, cold and brawny ; then blotches of ecchymosis form on some parts, while in others mesh-works of veins appear. Subsequently, the whole becomes of a lurid red or dusky purple, and then, if the patient still live, gangrene announces its advent by the appearance of bullse filled with serum stained of a deep purple or dusky crimson hue. These