494 ANEURISM. Erichsen’s1 and M. Collard’s view, that the condition may be produced by no disease at all. So obscure, however, are some of the symptoms, that it is at present impossible to fix absolutely the differential diagnosis of certain of the lesions, save by means of exclusion, observation of signs, and inference; yet it is most important, in view of treatment, to be able to distinguish one form of malady—viz., the arterial—from the others. Cirsoid aneurism of the orbit is, to say the least, a very rare disease.2 Unless slowly supervening upon a badly-healed wound—and that would be a patholo- gical curiosity-—it would be the sequela of a congenital condition, and some signs of angeiomatous arteries—not merely varicose veins—would be found. It never could arise suddenly, with a snap or crack, nor follow closely upon some traumatism; nor would the noise be great, but rather a low-breathing murmur than a rasping or sawing sound. Circumscribed aneurism within the orbit may sometimes exhibit a distinct tumor below the upper eyelid, protruding the conjunctiva, in which case its consistence and mode of pulsation may aid diagnosis; but chiefly must we be guided by its bruit or susurrus. Its clear, intermitting sound can, in typical cases, be hardly mistaken for the pur or snarl of arterio-venous aneurism on the one hand, or for the soft sigh or hum of venous fulness, or of aneurism by anastomosis, on the other. Arterio-venous aneurism, always traumatic, and usually preceded by signs of fracture at the base of the skull,3 emits a very loud rasping sound, already de- scribed. Venous congestion or occlusion generally comes on more slowly, and is not preceded or accompanied by any smart snap, or sound of breakage; it is marked by complete noiselessness, or very gentle murmur, and by a more com- pressible, softer state of the tumor, and of the pulsation. The ophthalmoscope may in some cases show particularly well-marked venous congestion, and full vortices, but the instrument is not always available, owing often to rapid changes occurring in the media. Puncture of the tumor with a fine trocar might, as Mr. Rivington suggests, reveal the venous or arterial nature of the contents. The decision as to whether the disease is in the orbit or in the sinus behind it, is frequently impossible, unless fracture of the base of the skull, or certain negative signs about the orbit, be present. Some conclusion may, per- haps, be formed from the different forms of paralysis of the ocular muscles— such symptoms as ptosis, and internal squint from paralysis of the third nerve,4 together with slight or no impairment of vision. Again, oedema of the eye- lids coming on early, and before pulsation is felt, if its advent be slow, and unmarked either by traumatism or any sudden sense of something giving way, is a sign of venous obstruction; if the heart and large vessels be not mark- edly diseased, the evidence is in favor of this obstruction being independent either of aneurism or of rupture of the artery in the cavernous sinus. Neverthe- less, it must be confessed that many paradoxical cases occur, such as Yelpeau’s,6 in which both eyes were affected, and in which compression of the right carotid stopped pulsation in the left eye, and vice versa, a condition which), that author and Mr. Holmes have both endeavored, but without success, to explain. Ligature of the right vessel checked pulsation in both eyes for a * Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 104. 2 Probably Dr. Frothingbam’s case (American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 187b) was of this description. 3 Les anevrismes arterio-veineux du sinus caverneux, par M. le docteur Delens. See also Dr. Morton’s paper in the American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1870. 4 The tumor in the orbit lies, when present, above and inside the eyeball, which is generally pressed outward, so that there is an appearance of external squint, with the eye looking down- ward ; rapid loss of vision is also characteristic of disease within the orbit. 6 Delens, op. cit.