ANEURISM. 462 Instrumental pressure is capable of almost infinite variety; certain patients bear one form of appliance, which other patients cannot tolerate. I will only mention here those forms which have most generally proved useful. Skey’s tourniquet (Fig. 108, Vol. I. page 507) has in a certain number of cases ful- filled its purpose well; it is not adapted for making pressure at the groin ; but for parts lower down it is valuable, the ease with which it can be shifted from one part to another being of great advantage, though the pad to receive the back of the thigh is not sufficiently large. Nevertheless, it is often very bearable, and may be used with Carte’s compressor, or simply with a weight for the groin. An instrument which enjoys considerable reputation is Signo- roni’s tourniquet (Fig. 107, Yol. I. page 506); it is in form like a horse-shoe, at whose arc a screw and ratchet arrangement is introduced, and at whose ends the pads for pressure and counter-pressure are placed. A modification of this instrument has been introduced by placing at the pressure end a cross- bar carrying at each extremity a pad ; this enables the surgeon to alternate the point of pressure from one place to another. This instrument cannot be used at the groin ; the pressure exercised by either of these mechanisms is rigid and unyielding, and hence it is to many patients insupportable. I confess to a strong preference for a larger instrument, such as Carte’s, although its compli- cation is certainly no recommendation; but the comfort of the appliance, the method in which it holds the patient, so that the compressor is not likely by accident to become displaced, the ease with which the pressure can be applied and afterwards alternated, and the arrangement of the screw, so that the in- troduction of strong India-rubber rings enables the pad to spring with each pulsation of the vessel, are great advantages. The apparatus consists of two separate portions; the one for the groin, the other for the thigh. The former is a saddle made to fit the back and sides of the pelvis, being comfortably padded to their form. On one side is a rod with a socket, carrying a vertical, and that a horizontal, sliding arm, each Fig. 541. Carte’s compressor.—Groin portion. Carte’s compressor.—Thigh portion. provided with a binding screw. At the end of the horizontal arm is the com- pressing rod and screw, the rod running through a ball-joint and double socket connected together by broad flat India-rubber rings, giving a certain play and resilience to the screw. The socket in which the upright arm turns, and that