TREATMENT OF SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. 65 IY. Perchloride and Persulphate op Iron.—Solutions of these acid salts of iron have been much employed for arresting hemorrhages. Both prepara- tions are powerfully astringent and haemostatic. The perchloride, however, is the more irritating. It is of interest to learn, if possible, in what manner its solution acts in suppressing hemorrhage. Undoubtedly it coagulates the blood itself. When a small artery is allowed to bleed into a saucer containing a mixture of two parts of the liquor ferri perchloridi and one of water, this mixture converts almost at once six or eight times its bulk of blood into a tough, hard clot, and for a long time preserves it from putrefaction. But Broca has shown that this coagulating action is not instantaneous, but requires about thirty seconds for its completion; so that if this mixture, or any other solu- tion of ferric chloride, be applied to a part from which the blood is flowing freely, its styptic influence cannot be exerted upon the vessels themselves from which the blood escapes. But such an influence is essential to the satisfactory arrest of a hemorrhage. Dr. Barnes, who first brought this remedy into vogue, employed a mixture of one part of the stronger solution of ferric chloride and three parts of water, which he applied, by injecting it through a tube, directly to the bleeding surface of the uterus. As a haemostatic for external use, five parts of the salt may be dissolved in one hundred parts of distilled water, and lint soaked with this mixture may be applied to the bleeding surface. But Monsel’s solution of the persulphate of iron has probably been used, in this country at least, as a local haemostatic, much more than the ferric chloride. It has the advantage of being less irritating than other acid salts of iron. It has been applied by a stiff brush, or a fragment of compact sponge; or by laying a pledget of lint soaked with the solution, upon the bleeding surface. Both of these preparations, however, have been more popular than they have deserved to be. Neither of them directly or immediately excites the opened vessel to contract. Both of them, also, as well as the other acid salts of iron, produce a hard insoluble coagulum, which is very difficult to detach, and which greatly interferes with the apposition and healing of all deep wounds where these substances have been applied. Their employment is, therefore, to be deprecated in all surgical hemorrhages except those which are tegumentary or superficial, as for instance, those caused by leech-bites; but to them, the solu- tions of these ferric salts may be applied with advantage. They may also be used with much benefit in cases of parenchymatous hemorrhage occurring in open wounds. There are many other astringent substances which coagulate the blood, and may thus suppress hemorrhage by filling with clot the wound from which the blood issues, that is, by plugging it. Among them the most important are tannic and gallic acids, alum, nitrate of silver, and chloride of zinc. But they are all liable to the same objections as the acid salts of iron, which have just been explained. Alum, however, is the least objectionable. It should be dissolved in warm water, and applied in a tepid state, for then it will be de- posited in fine crystals about the mouths of the opened vessels. A sharpened stick of nitrate of silver too, may sometimes be applied with advantage for arresting hemorrhage in leech-bites. But, I believe that in all deep wounds, the employment of astringent substances, whether mineral or vegetable, except- ing perhaps alum and alcohol, ought to be shunned, because the occluding coagula which they produce interfere not a little with the apposition and healing of such wounds. _ Besides the oil of turpentine, there are several other agents which, when given internally, are useful for suppressing hemorrhage. They are the oil of vol. hi.—5