01 TREATMENT OF SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. efforts should be made to arrest the hemorrhage in desperate cases, such as those just mentioned ? On this point the following examples will shed some useful light:— At San Antonio, Texas, in tlie month of August, 1865 (as Dr. Sanford B. Hunt, late Surgeon U. S. Volunteers, informs me), Lieutenant Van Giesen, of the 18th N. Y. Cavalry, was accidentally wounded by a pistol in the hands of a comrade. The muzzle of the pistol was not more than three feet from the point where the ball entered, which was on the right side of the neck, immediately opposite the superior border of the thyroid cartilage, and directly over the origin of the external carotid artery. The point where the ball escaped was on the posterior part of the neck. The hemorrhage was great, being sufficient to render the injured man very pallid and faint, but was promptly checked by an intelligent bystander by compression effected with the thumb applied in the wound. The iirst surgeon to reach the case was Dr. Settle, formerly Medical Director of the Confederate Army in Texas. On withdrawing the compression, as Dr. Settle informed Dr. Hunt, the hemorrhage was renewed, a stream of blood as large as a crow-quill being thrown through the centre of a partially-formed clot to a distance of more than two feet, per saltum. It must have been over an hour after the wound was inflicted when I saw him (says Dr. Hunt). On again withdrawing the compression, no hemorrhage occurred. It was then ten o’clock P. M.; the patient lay on the ground out of doors; good light could not be procured, and it was decided to defer the opera- tion. An assistant surgeon was left with the patient, the instruments, etc., were put in readiness, and I expected to ligate the common carotid next morning, or perhaps during the night. Next morning, however, the clot was firm, no hemorrhage occurred, and the policy of delay was adopted. About the eighth day the clot softened, and came away without hemorrhage; the wound rapidly healed with hardly any perceptible suppu- ration (the ball had passed out posteriorly), and complete recovery resulted without operative procedure. After recovery there was no pulsation in the temporal artery of that side, and some coldness and numbness of the face existed for a time. Again, in the summer of 1864, in front of Petersburg, an officer belonging to the Army of the Potomac (I think that the officer was Assistant Surgeon R. S. Vickery, 2d Michigan Volunteers) was wounded by a rifle-ball which divided the femoral artery in the upper part of its course; the hemorrhage was very profuse; but he had the pre- sence of mind to compress the wounded vessel with his own fingers, and thus stay the bleeding, until he could be taken to a surgeon, who applied ligatures. This officer made a good recovery. Furthermore, Dr. T. F. Azpell, U. S. Army, related to me a case in point which came under his own observation during the war of the Rebellion ; the axillary artery of a soldier was wounded near its origin by a rifle-ball; the hemorrhage, which was very abundant, was arrested immediately by digital pressure, and was thus restrained until a ligature could be applied to the subclavian artery; this patient, too, got well. In addition to the above cases may be mentioned that reported by the elder Larrey, of General Arrighi, Duke of Padua, who was struck in the neck by a musket-ball at St. Jean d’Acre. It wounded his right carotid artery, the hemorrhage was very profuse, and he must have died from it on the spot, if a soldier had not had the presence of mind to stop the bleeding by introducing his two forefingers into the w'ound, and keeping them there until Larrey arrived, who tied the wounded artery with a good result. Digital compression, then, if brought to bear by introducing the fingers or thumb into the wound, and applying them directly to the bleeding orifices of artery or vein, may not unfrequently he employed with success to stay the hemorrhage until ligatures can be applied, in wounds of the neck, arm- pit, groin, extremities, etc., which otherwise would soon prove fatal from loss of blood. And digital compression may sometimes he applied in this way by the patient himself, as well as by a comrade or bystander; for the amount ot pressure required to stop the bleeding from even a large artery is surpris- ingly small, when it is placed directly and held steadily upon the orifice itself of the wounded vessel. A knowledge of these facts should be widely