303 DELIGATION OP ARTERIES. anticus muscle, the outer edge of which can be distinctly felt extending upward from the tubercle of the first rib; behind and just external to the outer-edge of this muscle, the pulsations of the artery can be felt. The inner border of the brachial plexus of nerves now appears, and is to be drawn upward and outward. Between the scalenus anticus and the brachial plexus, but somewhat deeper than the latter, lies the artery. Divide the deep layer of the cervical fascia with the fingers and the handle of the scalpel, or the point of the director, and the artery then comes into view. The subclavian vein lies in front of and below the tendon of the scalenus anticus, and close to the clavicle. Open the sheath of the artery by tearing it with the finger nail, and gently insinuate the point of the needle, from before backward and slightly from within outward, keeping it close to the artery. Also guide the point of the needle by the end of the finger, and prevent it, when emerg- ing on the opposite side, from including a branch of the brachial plexus. Injury of the external jugular vein (at the outer border of the sterno-cleido- mastoid), of the supra-scapular artery (above the clavicle), and of the phrenic nerve (running downward upon the scalenus anticus), must be avoided. Sometimes the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle has an unusually broad attachment to the clavicle, as has also the trapezius, in which case the clavicular attachment of the former must likewise be divided until sufficient room is obtained. Sometimes, too, the external jugular vein enters the supra-clavicular fossa at such a point that it cannot be drawn into either angle of the incision, in which case it must be tied with two ligatures and divided between them. The cutaneous incision directed above is substantially that recommended by Hodgson (Fig. 479). Roux, however, advised a longitudinal incision, the Fig. 479. Hodgson’s operation for tying tlie subclavian artery external to the scalenus anticus. (S6dillot.) lower end of which should rest on the clavicle; Marjolin advocated an inci- sion shaped like an inverted JL; and Physick preferred one fashioned like the letter V- But, as Sedillot justly observes, the procedure of Hodgson is the simplest and the best, and ought to be generally adopted. It has been sanc- tioned by Lisfranc, Sanson, Yelpeau, Sedillot, etc., in France, and, I believe, is generally preferred by the surgeons of Great Britain and America. I also know from experience that the artery can be exposed with great facility by this method. But the ease and celerity with which the operation is performed will very much depend upon keeping the surface of the dissection unstained with blood, which can be done, as I likewise know from experience, by not using the cutting edge of the knife at all, in ordinary cases, after dividing the