601 TUMORS OF NERVES. may attain considerable dimensions—the size of the fist, for example—but then presents some transformations; it no longer exhibits the same regular shape, nor a uniform consistence. The turhor is movable in a plane per- pendicular to the direction of the nerve, without change of the color of the skin. Pressure upon the tumor, which is sometimes painless, quite often deter- mines numbness, tingling, and pains which are at times violent. Pressure exerted upon the nerve above the neuroma permits the latter to be examined without the patient experiencing pain. Spontaneous pain appears when the tumor has acquired a certain size; it varies in its character, duration, and intensity, and occurs in paroxysms under the influence of atmospheric changes, the heat of the bed, movements, etc. Motility may be affected in the territory of the diseased nerve; these are muscular twitchings, cramps, and contraction. Occasionally all the muscles of a limb are affected at the same time. These painful paroxysms have been followed by general convulsions, and in one case the paroxysm presented the characters of angina pectoris (Cayzengues). Generally, neuromata do not cause nutritive lesions of the limb; we have seen above that there is no degeneration of the nerve beyond the tumor. [Diagnosis.—The recognition of isolated neuromata may present some diffi- culties ; they are generally fusiform, and seated upon the course of a nerve; quite often they are accompanied with pain, and compression of the nerve above the tumor causes the pain to disappear. A neuroma might be readily confounded with a partial peri-neuritis with inflammatory neoplasia; but this is seldom met with. A fibrous tumor is indolent, and does not occupy ex- actly the course of a nerve; a neuroma could hardly be confounded with an •aneurism. If the tumor be deeply placed, the diagnosis may be impossible; such was Berard’s case, in which a neuroma of the phrenic nerve gave rise to the symptoms of angina pectoris. After having recognized that the tumor is seated upon a nerve, it is necessary to inquire what is its nature, but this is most often impossible. It will be seen hereafter how, in the majority of cases, a neuroma may be dis- tinguished from a painful subcutaneous tubercle. Plexiform neuromata are seen at birth, or during early life; they have a peculiar appearance, and can be recognized without much difficulty. The same may be said as regards the diagnosis of multiple neuromata. They are to be distinguished from the small, subcutaneous fibromata which are met (with in rheumatic patients, and which are scattered at random, or collected around the articulations. Subcutaneous lipomata are occasionally multiple, small in size, and symmetrical; but the shape of the tumor is not regular, it often adheres to the deep surface of the skin, and does not follow the course of the nerves; it is always indolent. The diagnosis from the subcutaneous nodules caused by the presence of the cysticercus may be more difficult; some- times there are found upon a limb several small, oblong, movable, indolent, subcutaneous tumors, which might be mistaken for multiple neuromata of a nerve or of a region. In case of doubt, it would be proper to remove one of the tumors, when the presence or absence of a cysticercus would decide the diagnosis. Finally, multiple neuromata must not be confounded with the tumors of disseminated cancer of the skin. Prognosis.—The prognosis of neuromata is very variable, as has been seen. Sometimes it is favorable; in other cases it is grave on account of the inten-