INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 132 exciting inflammation in the pleura and lung by the presence of the tampon in the wound is much less to be dreaded than the danger of hhemothorax. When the internal mammary artery is injured, the prognosis is always very grave; the risk, too, of secondary hemorrhage is by no means small, as the cases (six), related or referred to above, clearly show. Intercostal Arteries.—These vessels, called specifically the posterior inter- costal arteries, arise from the back part of the thoracic aorta, and pass to the intercostal spaces, where, after coming into relation with the intercostal veins lying above and the intercostal nerves lying below, each of them divides into two branches, which run along the borders of the contiguous ribs between the two planes of intercostal muscles, and, finally, anastomose with the ante- rior intercostal arteries, branches of the internal mammary. The branch corresponding with the lower border of each rib is usually much larger than the other. Posteriorly, the intercostals are quite large vessels, and, coming directly from the main artery of the body, they give rise, when wounded, to profuse and obstinate hemorrhages. During our civil war fifteen such cases were recorded, eleven of which, or 73.33 per cent., proved fatal from hemor- rhage ; and in one instance the thoracic cavity was found to contain two quarts of blood. Occasionally, these arteries are opened by stabs or incised wounds of the chest received in affrays; I have known two cases of such incised wounds. In each instance the injured vessel was promptly secured in the wound by ligatures without much difficulty, the chest-wound was then closed, and recovery speedily followed. Sometimes, too, simple fractures of the ribs are attended with puncture or laceration of these arteries; and when the pleura costalis is also torn in such a way that the effused blood can readily escape into the thoracic cavity, death from concealed hemorrhage may soon ensue, as happened in the following instance:— An artillery-man was struck, whilst fencing, with a light cane upon the eighth rib of the right side. There was no outward mark of injury, but he became collapsed, and died eight hours afterward. On autopsy, the right pleural sac was found to contain about five pints of blood. The eighth rib was found fractured, and a twig of the inter- costal artery entering the bone at this point was torn through, while the trunks of the intercostal artery and vein were uninjured.1 Most frequently, however, the intercostal arteries are found opened by, or in connection with, fractures of the ribs that are compound ; such, for instance, as occur in gunshot-wounds of the chest. The fifteen examples reported in the Surgical History of the War were all cases of wound by gunshot missiles; and the Intercostal arteries were injured either by the fragments of comminuted bone, or by the missiles themselves. But gunshot projectiles that are small or minute may open the intercostal arteries without breaking the ribs, and thus cause fatal hemorrhage, as occurred in the following case:— A young man, aged 15, received a discharge of small shot at forty-eight paces. He instantly fell, but soon got up and ran about six hundred paces, when he again fell exhausted. He was taken home, and died thirty-eight hours after the mishap. Autopsy. One shot had penetrated his right chest between the first and second ribs, near the sternum. The right pleural cavity contained twenty-eight ounces of blood. The right lung was compressed to one-fourth of its normal bulk, and wounded. Posteriorly, the shot also had passed through the costal pleura at the inferior border of the sixth rib, about two inches from its head, and had lacerated the intercostal artery. From this wound had issued the fatal hemorrhage (Graefe). Here, too, the wounde4 vessel had considerable size, for its origin was not far away. 1 Medical Times and Gazette, Dec. 2, 1860, p. 607.