257 HEMOPHILIA, OR THE HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. guse soon after birth, or from accidental wounds. But the most common time for the full outbreak of the disease is at the end of the nursing period, or at the beginning of the first dentition, not only because the traumatic bleedings now become more frequent in consequence of slight contusions, excoriations, etc., but especially because the apparently spontaneous hemor- rhages begin to appear about this time. There are also certain ages when the disposition to bleedings is particularly marked; and Grandidier calls attention to the fact that the second dentition, puberty, and in females the first appearance and the cessation of the menses, are specially critical periods for these patients. The general correctness of this view is proved by the experience of most of the reported cases. Finally, it is to be noted that with the advance of age there is very generally a gradual decline in the ave- rage intensity of the affection, and that accordingly the manifestations of the congenital anomaly are usually found to be most marked in youth, and to become much feebler toward middle life. In exceptional instances, how- ever, the symptoms of haemophilia recur again and again with undiminished intensity up to old age, and even then death may result directly from one of the hemorrhages. Ho definite form of physiological constitution exhibits a specially marked predisposition to htemophilia. There is, however, one peculiarity, namely, a certain delicacy and transparency of the skin, together with a superficial position and marked fulness of the subcutaneous bloodvessels, particularly the veins, which is mentioned by many trustworthy observers as so com- monly noticeable in bleeders, that we can scarcely deny it a certain causal relation to haemophilia. The Anglo-Germanic race in both the old and the new world, exhibits a special disposition to the affection, as already mentioned. A similar predisposi- tion, it may be added, appears to exist in the Jewish race also, for the disease has repeatedly been noticed among this people in connection with the rite of circumcision, and a considerable number of Israelitish bleeder families have likewise been reported. The primordial causes of haemophilia and the nature of the influences which originally operate in its genesis are entirely unknown. But the exciting causes of the bleedings, that is, the influences which are able to produce an outbreak when the disposition, however acquired, already’ exists, are briefly as follows: Cuts, punctures, lacerations, contusions, wrenches, and strains, may all excite interstitial as well as external extravasations; but it is especially characteristic of bleeders that extremely obstinate and copious external hemorrhages, as well as very extensive interstitial hemorrhages, occur in them, not only after severe wounds and injuries, but also quite commonly after even the most insignificant traumatic accidents. Indeed, it seems as if it were just these very trifling injuries, so harmless in healthy persons as scarcely to attract attention, that are specially dangerous in bleeders; in fact, the mortality statistics of haemophilia show that hemor- rhages result far ofterier from very slight than from severe wounds. Thus, simple punctures, the opening of small superficial abscesses, the application of leeches and cups, the extraction of teeth, cutting the frsenum linguae in young children, circumcision, and numerous other trifling operative proce- dures, have been followed by uncontrollable and ultimately fatal hemorrhages in so large a number of cases that any operation upon these patients, how- ever slight, attended with bleeding, must be considered dangerous. The same is also true of slight accidental wounds of all sorts, such as pin-pricks, cutaneous abrasions, trifling contusions, etc.; for they likewise are very apt to be followed by most obstinate and alarming external hemorrhages, or by very diffuse ecchymoses. But some of these minor wounds are, as a rule, VOL. hi.—17