ANEURISM. 452 marked by a meshwork of large full veins, shows obstruction, not to the onward, but to the returning current. Whether or no, in the former of the above states, the artery should be tied, must be decided by the condition of the aneurism: when that sort of gan- grene sets in, very rapid, almost sudden solidification sometimes takes place. It is therefore wiser to temporize, unless the sac be getting thinner and larger. In the second condition, it is also as a rule best to endeavor to reduce or diminish the swelling before resorting to the ligature. In certain cases, much of this venous engorgement may be removed by adopting one or all of three measures: (1) Change of position, which by altering the place of the sac obviates the pressure; (2) Elevation of the limb ; (3) Careful, not too firm bandaging, frequently renewed. After a time, and whether or no these means have succeeded, the artery should be tied, partly because by that means the amount of blood passing to the over-filled limb is diminished, and partly because the aneurism will pro- bably decrease and allow the vein to resume its function. Allusion has already been made (p. 439) to the place of deligation in regard to branches given off from the main vessel. Had the principles of thirty years ago, viz., never to tie near a large branch, been rigidly adhered to, very few vessels of the body would have undergone deligation. But the extent of the internal clot, important as it is with ligatures that must come away, is perhaps less so with those that are left around the artery, and probably (for I must speak with a necessary lack of experience, which time alone can give) ligatures which remain on the vessel, and do not divide its inner coat, are secure against secondary hemorrhage, whether or no a thrombus form. If this view be correct, no part of a vessel accessible to ligation at all, can be unsuited for that sort of band. Nevertheless, when circumstances permit a choice, prudence would forbid deligation to be practised very near to some great branch. Aneurisms op the Lower Extremity. The terminal vessels of the extremities are rarely aneurismal unless from direct wound,1 and the vessel least uncommonly affected by this condition is found to be the dorsal artery of the foot, the disease occurring here, pro- bably, as the result of pressure by an ill-fitting boot, or of sprain, and some- times as a sequel of gunshot injury by a spent ball which has merely bruised the part. Less frequent are aneurisms in the sole of the foot, and behind the malleoli, more especially the outer. Aneurism of the Dorsal Artery of the Foot.—This is a far more serious disease than the size of the vessel would seem to warrant; nor is its cure by any means easy. This is no doubt owing to the free communications which exist between the three vessels that nourish the extremity, so that the sac is probably in connection with more than one artery, and may lie, as some dissections have shown, partly between the bones. The cases are not very common: I have been able to collect eighteen, four of which followed direct wounds, while three were ascribed to sprains, and four were classed as spontaneous; in the records of six no mention of casualty is made.2 The tumor is usually situated over the scaphoid or internal cunei- 1 I have excluded the erroneously named traumatic diffuse aneurism, hut a few such cases are on record. 2 Fourteen of these cases are cited by Delorme. (Gazette Hebdomadaire, No. 9,1879). Of these the earlier ones are taken from very short and unsatisfactory notices. Two more are in the Zeitsclirift der Chirurgie, Bd. xii. S. 477. One is in the Philadelphia Med. Times, March 21, 1874; one in the Brit. Med. Journal, Dec. 8, 1870.