223 WOUNDS OF THE AORTA. Fig. 428. Fig. 429. Perforation of the inferior thyroid artery by a swal- lowed hone. (Pilate, Musee Dupuytren.) Taken from Poulet’s Foreign Bodies in Surgical Practice, vol. i. p. 94, Am. edition. Perforation of the aorta and oesophagus by a very irregular hone. (Bousquet, Mus6e Dupuytren.) A. The aorta. P. The perforation. C. The foreign body. (E. The opened oesophagus. Taken from Poulet’s Foreign Bodies in Surgical Practice, vol. i. p. 95, Am. edition. void artery; in 1 the right coronary vein; in 1 the vena azygos ; in 1 the right subcla- vian artery (abnormal) ; in 1 the oesophageal arteries; in 1 the pulmonary arteries ; and in 4 cases the arteries penetrated were unknown, as autopsies were not made. The position of the oesophagus in the midst of the large vascular trunks of the neck and chest sufficiently explains the frequency of this grave accident. These vessels are: 1st, the aorta, which is situated behind and to the left of the oesophagus ; 2d, the vena azygos ; 3d, the pulmonary artery ; 4th, the superior vena cava; 5th, the carotid ; 6th, the inferior thyroid artery; 7th, the right subclavian artery, when abnormally situated ; 8th, the oesophageal arteries. The much greater frequency of aortic perfora- tions is not wonderful, in view of its great size, and of the intimate manner in which the two organs are connected over a considerable space. The foreign bodies causing this accident have most often been pieces of bone. Next in the order of frequency are coins, fish-bones, artificial teeth, etc., and any irregular, dense, flattened, or pointed body can produce it. After what lapse of time are these perforations of bloodvessels developed? This period is very variable. In a large ma- jority of the cases, however, the first hemorrhage occurs from the fifteenth to the twenty-fifth day ; but the exceptions are numerous. Moreover, surgical interference is not immaterial; and, more than once, it has happened that the surgeon has forced a foreign body, which he thought he had pushed into the stomach, into the oesophageal walls. Such a manipulation would only, by so much, hasten the occurrence of vascular perforation and hemorrhage. In such cases, too, the appearances may be very decep-