ANEURISM. 404 came solid during a severe attack of enteritis, and one of femoral aneurism during acute rheumatism.1 The local conditions are manifold, and must, to a certain extent, be matters of speculation, since when an old aneurism is found after death filled with firm clot, it will very generally be impossible to prove the circumstances which led to its solidification ; yet, I think, we may take the following account to be correct. It was pointed out a few pages above that most sacculated aneurisms con- tained, besides fluid blood, a certain amount of firm, laminated clot. This deposit rarely lines the sac throughout, but is situated in those parts of the cavity in which, from its shape, the blood stream is slight and slow, in which indeed, there may be a sort of backwater or counter-eddy, very tranquil, almost moveless. Fusiform aneurisms are, by their very form, precluded from possessing such quiet nooks or recesses, and hence they are less often and less richly provided with that lining of clot. Moreover, even sacculated aneurisms springing from a great length and from a wide periphery of the ves- sel—that is to say, having a large mouth in proportion to the size of the sac’s body-—are of less favorable form for the accretion of active clot than are those which stand out from a small section of the artery, and which have a small aperture of communication with the lumen of the vessel. A rough, uneven inner surface, or one divided into ridges and pouches, acts' very favorably in promoting this process, and therefore, when once a certain amount of such a coagulum has been formed, it has great tendency to increase by deposition upon it of fresh layers of fibrine from the passing blood. From this it will be plain that some aneurisms are so formed that one or other of the systemic conditions above mentioned, or some occurrence about the sac or the vessel, suffices to add the slight movement necessary to produce entire obliteration of the cavity; such are said to have a great tendency to spontaneous cure. Others are so constituted as to be very recalcitrant. The circumstances which may occur to produce such a local retardation of the blood stream as shall lead to a freer deposit of clot are : fortunate form of tumor and situation of the usual clot deposit, favoring further extension of coagulum; pressure of the aneurism on the artery above or below; and displacement of a flake of the clot, and its impaction in such a position as to narrow the mouth of the tumor or of the efferent artery, if the aneurism be fusiform. Concerning the first of these, little more need be said than has been said al- ready. Laminated fibrine in a sac has always a tendency to growth, which may be frustrated by energy of circulation, constant movement, or a thousand other circumstances ; if now such a patient have some temporary malady enforcing quietude, if the circulation be for some days depressed, if during a heavy sleep he lie in some position which may retard the blood-stream in the vessel im- plicated, he may by any of these, as by other fortunate cii’cumstances, super- induce upon the old coagulum a new deposit, in a situation so opportune that the current in the sac is greatly lessened, and that the solidification of its whole contents becomes a mere question of more or less time. This process may take place in any sacculated aneurism, even though it spring from the largest vessel of the body.2 The development of a new aneurism high up on any 1 Archives Gen. de Medecine, 1824, and Pathological Trans., vol. vii. p. 201. The influence of acute inflammations in producing a rapidly fibrinating tendency of the blood is well known ; I have, however, said only “may conduce,” because further examples are required to establish a relationship of cause and effect between the existence of one disease and the cure of the other. 2 Mr. Erichsen says “This process can only take place in aneurisms affecting arteries of the second and third magnitude, and never in those of the aorta.” It is, however, not very uncom- mon to find in the post-mortem room cured and unsuspected aortic aneurisms. Dr. Cockle