POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 461 So much has been said concerning its mode of application and after- management, that nothing need here be added save a statement of results. In the surgical section of the International Congress held in London, 1881, Mr. Gould gave certain numbers, which, being so recent, may be accepted as correct up to the time of writing. I find that, for popliteal aneurism, Eeid’s method is recorded to have been employed 47 times, and to have been successful 27 times. The 20 cases of non-success include 1 death directly attributable to over-zealous repetition of the treament, causing collapse. One case was cured by proximal pressure; eighteen patients were subjected to ligature, of whom 3 died, 1 submitted to amputation, and 1 had gangrene of the foot.1 Of the 47 patients, 22 were subjected to the treatment more than once; of these, 1 died and 13 remained uncured. Indirect Pressure for Popliteal Aneurism.—This may be either digital, or may be effected by means of a weight, or by instruments. To carry out the first method {digital pressure), a number of more or less trained assistants are necessary,2 viz., from eight to twelve. They should be instructed to remain, two or three at a time, with the patient, each section to be on duty four hours. Ho. 1 should keep his hand on the tumor, while Ho. 2 compresses the artery against the body of the os pubis; it is the duty of the first to warn the com- pressor of any return of pulsation in the sac. When the assistant restraining the artery is tired, the third man present should relieve him, not by taking his place at the groin, but by pressing on the vessel at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. Ho. 2 now relaxes his pressure, being in readiness to reapply it if Ho. 1 gives notice that the lower pressure does not duly control the vessel. At the second change, Ho. 1, hitherto untired, as he simply has kept a touch on the sac, takes his turn as a compressor. In order to spare muscular fatigue, and thereby prolong the time during which each assistant can hold the vessel, a weight should be provided—either a mould of lead or a bag of shot, weigh- ing from four to six pounds—which is placed on the back of the compressor’s fingers. Weight pressure is carried out in much the same way, but without the fingers; an assistant, or trained nurse, should be present, to occasionally feel for pulsation in the tumor, and, if necessary, to readjust the weight. This weight may be of various forms: some surgeons use simply a bag of shot, weighing from 4 or 6, up to 12 lbs.; others employ one piece of lead, so cast as to fit the groin, and another to fit the front and inner aspect of the thigh. Mr. Tufnell is fond of two weights ; the one, an oval, has a long diameter^of 5f, a short one of 4-f inches. The surface which is next the skin is convex, with a subsidiary protrusion, a sort of nipple ; indeed this aspect resembles in form the female mamma; the other surface is flat; the thickness from the centre of the oval surface to the point of the boss is 1| inches, the weight is 2 lbs. This js laid on the part, so that the projection accurately corresponds to the artery, and upon the flat surface an ordinary weight of from 8 to 12 lbs. is placed. In the use of all weights it is convenient and of great assistance to have them suspended above the bed by a crane-like arrangement; this pre- vents their falling off when the patient moves, and, if a pulley be supplied, facilitates modifications in the amount of pressure. Either the shot-bag, or the moulded, or Tufnell’s subsidiary weight, can thus very easily be slung up. Other forms have, in certain special cases, been used ; individual difficulties may be met by commensurate resources. 1 Which coining on four days after deligation, was probably attributable, at least in part, to the previous use of the Esmarch bandage. 2 In a few rare cases, nature requires so little aid that the patient can himself make all the pressure required ; in others, two or three persons are enough ; but the rules of surgery cannot be founded on exceptions.