INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 698 flexion amounts to about thirty-five degrees. The limb is lengthened by from half an inch to two and one-half inches. Treatment.—The methods of reduction already described for the pubic form of forward dislocation, are equally applicable to thyroid dislocations, with the addition of the following:— (1) The rotation instead of commencing with abduction (Fig. 575), and Fig. 575. Reduction of thyroid dislocation hy manipulation. (Bigelow.) of rendering the instruction more precii sweeping around, as described above for the rotation plan in pubic disloca- tions, may be made in the opposite direction, and with the limb ad- ducted, precisely as in dorsal luxa- tions. Some surgeons prefer this method, and claim for it equal suc- cess with the abduction and sweep- ing toward the body which is most usually advised. (2) Reduction has often been effected by placing the patient in a sitting posture with his knees straight, and a hassock, roll of blankets, or other broad fulcrum between the upper part of the ab- ducted thighs. The surgeon grasps the two ankles or knees, and presses them toward each other, thus pry- ing the head into its socket by the leverage of the extended thighs. In principle, many of the meth- ods which have been described for anterior dislocations will be seen to be identical; they have been de- scribed independently, for the sake and intelligible in each instance. Ancient Methods.—Although mostly obsolete, Cooper’s methods call for description, because they were so recently in common use in forward as well as in backward dislocations of the hip. Briefly, they are as follows:— (1) In pubic dislocations, counter-extension was obtained by means of a sheet passed between the thighs, brought together on the outer side of the pelvis on the injured side, and its ends made fast to some firm support. By means of a clove hitch over a towel wrapped around the thigh, just above the knee, traction was made with the pulleys, or Spanish windlass, in a direction downward, that is, with the limb in extension, and a little backward, allow- ing the limb, for this purpose, to hang somewhat over the edge of the bed or table. (2) In thyroid, dislocations, and other forward and downward forms of dis- placement, reduction was effected by laying the patient horizontally, and pass- ing the counter-extending band about his hips a little below the crest of the ilium, carrying it across the body, back and front, and attaching it to some firm support on the sound side. This band did not pass between the thighs, but sur- rounded the hip. Next, a band for making extension was passed around the inner side of the dislocated thigh, near its upper extremity, and carried in the opposite direction, outward and a little upward. By means of pulleys this was tightly drawn, with a view of pulling the head of the bone upward and