414 ANEURISM. be avoided; but the danger of suppuration, and even sloughing, of the sac, through the irritation of a loose clot soaked in the coagulant fluid, is ever present, and against such peril, when he has made the injection, the surgeon is all but helpless. There can, I conceive, be very few aneurisms which can safely he treated by coagulating injections, which cannot be less dangerously treated by other methods. Introduction of Foreign Bodies.—The introduction of solids into the sac is a method which originated with the late Charles Hewitt Moore, of the Middlesex Hospital, in 1864.1 He selected for this experiment a case ot hopeless thoracic aneurism, introduced into the sac a fine canula, and through that tube passed into the cavity twenty-six yards of fine iron wire. The ope- ration was easy, and almost painless; the hemorrhage slight; but the effect injurious. Inflammation of the sac and of the surrounding parts, certain embolic infarctions of the kidney, great pain, and death on the fifth day, is the summing up of the case. In 1873, Dr. Levis, of Philadelphia, slightly modified this procedure by using, instead of fine wire, horse-hair.2 The aneurism was of the right subcla- vian artery. The patient died in four days. At the autopsy, the horse-hair was found behind the upper lobe of the lung, the aneurism being ruptured. “ On dividing the upper lobe of the right lung, there was found a mass of black, clotted blood, behind it and extending beyond the line of the ribs, espe- cially in the axillary region immediately below the clavicle, nearly two inches. In the upper portion of this soft clot a dense white clot was found attached around the lower aneurismal opening in the subclavian. In the posterior part of the fibrinous clot were found the horse-hairs.” In November, 1873, Mr. Bryant treated in the same way a popliteal aneurism which had resisted pressure, passing into the tumor about twTenty feet of horse-hair while the femoral was compressed. “ The leg was bandaged with cotton-wool. The anterior tibial could be felt pulsating. Half an hour after the operation, the pulsation had diminished.”3 The patient survived four days, the procedure apparently not contributing to death as much as did a heart affection, and the previous very zealous compression for over one hun- dred hours. The sac was found partially filled with clot mixed up with horse- hair, but, as a month before death it had been noted that there was much clot in the sac, there is plainly difficulty in ascribing to the pressure and the horse- hair their respective shares in the local and general result. The introduction of needles is a method wThich dates from the time of Sir Everard Home (1796), who added heat to the mere acupuncture. And the tendency of blood in slow motion to coagulate upon any solid against which a mitigated current may play, has induced many well-known surgeons— Yelpeau, Pravaz, Agnew, and others—to try this method, but without much practical result. The most successful case is that of Dr. Macewen.4 The aneurism was of the popliteal artery; pressure had been but partially successf ul; a fine needle was introduced and moved every ten minutes for one hour, during which time, and for fifteen minutes longer, pressure was continued. It is to be observed that the influence of the needle is in this case doubtful; many an aneurism, which had previously resisted, has been cured by the last half hour or so of pressure. Mr. Heath,5 after amputating without benefit at the shoulder-joint, in a case of subclavian aneurism, used acupuncture, but 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol: xlvii. p. 136. I believe some attempts had, in earlier years, been made to cure aneurism by passing into the sac very fine iron-dust or iron-filings. 2 Philadelphia Medical Times, March 28, 1874. 3 Pathological Transaction, 1877, p. 103. * Lancet, vol. ii., 1876, p. 184. 6 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxiii. p. 71.