129 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. itself, then there is abundant cause for anxiety. If these principles be important in hemorrhages of an ordinary character, they are much more important still when applied to the treatment of hemorrhages from the hypogastric, inguinal, and iliac regions. Legouest has twice had occasion to apply ligatures for profuse hemorrhage from flesh-wounds of the abdomen; once to the epi- gastric, and once to the circumflex iliac artery. Sometimes these vessels, when divided, retract greatly; it then becomes necessary to enlarge the wound considerably, in order to find and tie the bleeding mouths. This is especially apt to happen when the internal epigastric is severed near where it enters the sheath of the rectus. Sometimes, in punctured wounds of the abdom- inal parietes involving these arteries, the hem- orrhage is inter-mural, the blood either escaping into the connective tissue and forming a sangui- nolent tumor; or, burrowing between the great muscular and aponeurotic planes, the extrava- sation becoming widely spread and forming a flattened swelling. In both instances, the wound must be enlarged until the bleeding orifice can be seen and the artery properly tied. When from i . i, the trunk. 1. Internal mammary : 2, such extravasations sanguinolent abscesses result, Deep epigastric, They are connected they should be opened by timely incisions, lest to the aorta by a series of intercostal, there occur inflammation of the contiguous peri- lumbar>and diaphragmatic arteries. 3, toneum, or purulent infiltration of the muscular bundles; the pus, it the operation be delayed, may iliac. The anatomist will notice that it become widely disseminated. is chiefly the anastomosing branches of When these arteries are opened by wounds fte«toriMOfthewau which are.shown. , i-i - i . J i (Struthers, Anat. and Physiol. Obs. which penetrate the abdominal cavity, and the Edin. i854.) apertures in the integuments are closed without first securing the wounded vessels, the blood may flow inwardly and collect in great quantity in that cavity; this concealed hemorrhage may be so abundant as to prove fatal. Internal Mammary Artery.—In mere flesh-wounds of the chest, as well as those which extend into its cavity, this vessel may be opened. Moreover, this lesion is not trivial and unimportant, as some surgeons have supposed; for, during our civil war, six cases were reported in which the internal mam- mary artery was opened, and in all of them the hemorrhage was very profuse, and the issue fatal. Wounds involving this artery, therefore, merit serious attention. Anatomically, the internal mammary is a branch of the subcla- vian artery, and the first that proceeds from the inferior aspect thereof; it descends behind the clavicle and the costal cartilages, but in close relation with the cartilages, along the front wall of the chest, but external to the pleura, alongside the margin of the sternum and about half an inch there- from, until the sixth intercostal space is reached; here it divides into the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric branches, the latter of which enter the sheath of the rectus abdominis, and terminate in or become continuous with the corresponding branches of the internal epigastric artery. The deep mammary arteries (Fig. 421, p) are remarkable for the number of their inoscu- lations and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, through vol. hi.—9 Fig. 421. Longitudinal plan of the arteries of