SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 443 Thus we have such a range of periods within which the carbolized catgut may disappear or remain, that any surgeon who applies such a ligature, must feel a sad uncertainty as to what will happen. Mr. Lister himself evidently feels that catgut prepared in the way he first recommended has failed to furnish a ligature suitable for tying arteries in con- tinuity, since he has more recently instituted a series of experiments for the purpose of rendering the action of catgut in the tissues more equable and reliable by steeping them in chromic acid -,1 a mode of preparation, indeed, which Dr. Macewen, of Glasgow, had previously employed. But in a case of deligation of the external iliac artery, for which Mr. Lister had supplied the operator'(Mr. Pemberton) with a length of chromicized catgut, the ligature came away four months after the operation in an abscess. A piece which the same gentleman supplied to Mr. Bellamy was used for tying the superfi- cial femoral: the wound healed, save a space of about half an inch—a fissure, rather than a sinus—which led straight through the tissues to the ligatured artery. The man left the hospital after three months with this fissure still open. In the mean time, the general dissatisfaction with catgut as a ligature in continuity caused many surgeons, myself among the number, to make experiments and trials with certain other animal substances, the result being that three materials may now be regarded as probably the best for tying vessels in aneurism. The suspensory tendon of the kangaroo’s tail was proposed and used by Dr. Girdlestone, of Melbourne, in 1878.2 A Japanese surgeon, Dr. Ishigouro, recommended tendons of the whale, which are strongly com- mended, also, by Benhenna and Baely ;3 while I chose the plan of surrounding the vessel to be tied with its own, that is, with arterial tissue. It does not pro- bably much matter whence the animal tissue employed may come, provided that it be of the fibrous variety, be strong enough to bear a strong pull, be of a consistence that will retain a slight knot, and more especially he fresh.4 It appeared to me, in studying all the modes of failure of catgut, and experiment- ing on different samples which I myself had prepared, that the extreme varia- bility depended not on different methods or periods of carbolization, but on certain conditions of its first manufacture, which of necessity involved a certain, or rather an uncertain, amount of putrefaction, so as to allow the outer parts (peritoneum, etc.) to be scraped off with the back of a knife, while the same implement and action squeezed the mucous coat out of the tube under the form of dirt. Another consideration weighed with me very strongly. I was aiming more especially at a ligature wherewith large vessels near the heart could be safely tied, more especially the innominate and subclavian, the deligation of which, when the patients have sufficiently survived, has always been fol- lowed by secondary hemorrhage. It seemed to me that if we could keep a vessel shut up for a sufficient length of time with a ligature that need not ulcerate through the artery, we might (the result of proximal pressure shows it to be possible) cure an aneurism without division of the two inner arterial coats. In other words, it seemed to me that the doctrine of Dr. Jones re- quired revision. How I found by experiments that round ligatures could not reliably be used, so as to leave those coats entire, but that flat ones, unless 1 President’s Address before the Clinical Society. 2 First introduced into Europe by the late Mr. Callender. Clinical Society’s Transactions, vol. xi. p. 703. 3 Weekblatt van het Nederlandische Tidschrjft voor Geneesk, No. 37, 1878. 4 By this term I mean not used immediately on removal from the animal’s body, but so pre- pared and stored that not the slightest taint of putrefaction, no beginning of decomposition, may have occurred.