INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 188 until the clot coheres with more force than the impulse which the blood receives from the almost empty artery; but when the hemorrhage thus ceases, death is usually very near. How can such arterial wounds he successfully treated ? In cases where either of the carotids is involved,-pressure must he applied, without delay, by both index fingers or a thumb, in the wound, to the ends of the orifice in the wounded artery, until it can he securely tied with carholized catgut, above and below the lesion. (Consult also on this point the case of a miller, stabbed in the neck with a pocket-knife, who was successfully treated on this plan, p. Ill; and the remarks on the treatment of punctured wounds of arteries on p. 117.) In cases where the brachial artery is opened by an incised wound, the bleeding must be promptly suppressed by digital com- pression, or by an extemporaneous tourniquet, or by Esmarch’s elastic liga- ture, until the artery can be tied above and below the wound. In the fol- lowing instance this was done with tourniquets extemporized with pocket handkerchiefs:— An insubordinate soldier, aged 26, while in liquor, resisted arrest and attempted to use violence, whereupon one of the provost guards stabbed him with his sword in the upper part of the left arm, the wound corresponding to the lower third of the coraco- brachialis muscle. Profuse hemorrhage followed, and was arrested by the corporal of the guard, who applied a handkerchief tightly above and another below the' wound. This was so cleverly done that the patient lost no blood until the dressing had been removed two hours subsequently, Sept. 20, 1861, when he was conveyed to the hospital for treatment. On careful examination, the brachial artery was found wounded; without further delay an incision was made as for ligature of the artery, and the vessel secured above and below the wound, and the portion between the two wounds cut out. The venae comites were also tied because they were wounded. With the exception of con- siderable oedema of the hand, forearm, and arm, which was controlled by bandages, the case progressed well. On Oct. 16, the patient was returned to duty, entirely well.1 In this case, the first or proximal ligature having been applied, the wound was carefully sponged, and red blood was distinctly seen jetting out of the mouth of the vessel from below, and that with considerable force, showing that the application of a ligature to the artery above the wound only would have been an insufficient and an incomplete operation. The arterial wound consisted of a gash which extended about half way across the artery, in a nearly transverse direction, and was situated about one inch below the origin of the artery. The weapon penetrated the limb in an oblique direction. The incision of the skin was about one inch long. On loosening the extemporized tourniquet, the hemorrhage did not recur; the wound was filled with coagu- lated blood ; but it was found that there was no radial, nor ulnar, nor bra- chial pulse. The nature of the injury, therefore, could not he mistaken. But the ocular demonstration of regurgitating distal hemorrhage was, per- haps, the most interesting part of the case. The history just related affords a capital illustration of what the treatment should he in cases where the main artery of an extremity is opened by an incised wound, namely, the arrest of hemorrhage, without any delay, by applying digital compression in the wound, or a tourniquet, or an elastic ligature above and below the wound temporarily, that is, until surgical aid can be obtained, and the artery tied properly above and below the gash in its coats. In the following example, although the compression was con- tinued for eighteen days, the operation for applying ligatures had to be per- formed in order to obtain a cure :■— 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War, Second Surg. Vol., p. 436.