INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 162 was now dismissed from the hospital, but continued to apply the compression at home during several hours daily for ten months. Several years later he reported that the cure was complete; the place of the aneurism was occupied by a hard mass of the size of a nut, which did not impair the usefulness of the arm. Generally, compression, applied in some of the ways mentioned above, should be faithfully tried before resorting to operative procedures with the knife, for the cure of traumatic aneurism of the axilla. In cases where the “ old operation” is practised, a drainage tube, deeply- inserted, should be left in the wound. In such cases, also, antiseptic dress- ings are of great value, and, therefore, should be exclusively employed. "When the torn artery has been ligated above and below the rent in its tunics, by this method, should secondary hemorrhage ensue, the wound of operation must be promptly reopened, the bleeding point sought for and found, and tied anew with carbolized catgut. Amputation near the shoulder, performed without delay, is the only expe- dient that can save the patient in cases where gangrene attacks the limb in consequence of an occlusion of the axillary artery resulting from rupture of its inner and middle coats, as happened in the cases reported by Professor A. Berard, and Inspector-General Smart, R. 1ST., which I have already pre- sented. In such cases, the gangrene usually appears first in the fingers. When the other arteries of similar magnitude that belong to the extremi- ties, both lower and upper, are ruptured without external wound, the treat- ment should be conducted on the same general plan, for the underlying prin- ciples remain unchanged. Lacerations of the Main Arteries of the Extremities Caused by Frac- ture of the Long Bones.—This accident has often been met with in the leg, and numerous examples of it have been reported. Dupuytren says that, from 1806 to 1825, he witnessed as many as seven cases of diffuse aneu- rism caused by fractures of the leg. He also says: “ It may be that practi- tioners have overlooked this serious complication of fractures and gunshot wounds, because they have regarded it as beyond the ordinary resources of art to cureand he adds that, “ in such cases, the universal recommendation has been to amputate.” But this mode of treatment has been attended with a o-reat fatality. For example, Pelletan amputated the thigh in three cases belonging to this category, and lost two of his patients by death. J. L. Petit, in a fracture of the leg without external wound, saw the artery which passes between the two bones (doubtless the anterior tibial) laid open by the sharp edge of the broken tibia. The whole leg and foot became greatly swelled and ecchymosed; the part also became cold as well as dis- colored, and appeared gangrenous. He laid open the leg by an incision about six inches in length, extending above and below the fracture, and, discovering the open vessel, arrested the hemorrhage without displacing the bones. The case was then treated as an ordinary compound fracture, with success. This innovation was a great improvement. Boyer also recommended this plan of treatment, which consists essentially in cutting down upon the lacerated artery and tying its bleeding extremities. Dupuytren, in 1809, tied the femoral artery at the middle of the thigh, in a woman, aged 62, for the cure of a diffuse aneurism resulting from a simple fracture involving both bones of the leg, at the junction of the middle and inferior thirds. The fracture was oblique; there was also great swelling and tension of the surrounding soft parts. On attempting the reduction, Dupuy- tren felt in the calf of the leg strong pulsation, distinct to the eye as well as to the touch, and synchronous with the heart’s action; disappearing, too, on compressing the femoral artery, and returning on the withdrawal of the com-