403 SPONTANEOUS CURE OF ANEURISM. tebrae, passing down behind the clavicle, filling the axilla, and through the superior aperture of the thorax into the left pleural cavity, occupying its upper third, and com- pressing the lung. It evidently had sprung originally from the left subclavian artery; for a portion of the latter for about two inches of its length, beginning just beyond the thyroid axis, was completely obliterated as a tube, and actually formed part of the ante- rior wall of the aneurism. Beyond this, for about an inch and a half, the vessel was normal, and on the axillary artery was a second aneurism of a fusiform shape, the size of a walnut, and completely plugged by laminated coagula. “ The main aneurism possessed anteriorly a well-formed sac, which was altogether de- ficient posteriorly, being replaced by the natural tissues. It was tilled partly by firm, decolorized, and partly by loose, dark clots, in large quantity.”1 This case requires little comment: it will of itself show the enormous diffi- culties under certain circumstances—indeed I might say the impossibility—of arriving at a correct diagnosis. The effusion of blood was so slow that the tumor went on increasing for about seventeen months before it reached the size described by Mr. Baker. At an earlier stage, when I saw it, its mode of increase caused it to exactly simulate a deep-seated, nodulated, glandular tumor, even to the characteristic pressing forward of the smaller vessels, while it had lost all the characteristics of aneurism. It had neither pulsa- tion, bruit, nor pressure-pains, either on bone, nerve, or trachea—in fact, no trace of aneurism save the history. Enigmas so insoluble as that furnished by the above case are fortunately rare. Spontaneous Cure of Aneurism. Spontaneous cure of aneurism may be produced by causes conveniently divisible into three categories:— (1) Deposit of clot (active or passive) in the sac. (2) Rupture of the sac. (3) Inflammation,2 suppuration, or gangrene of the sac. Spontaneous Cure by Coagulation.—Of these methods, the first, the most usual, and the most to be desired, is divisible into two, viz., consolidation by laminated or active, and that by loose or passive clot; both may, or may not, be accompanied by obliteration of a certain length of the artery above and below. The immediate causes of clotting within the sac may be either general or local. The former consist of circumstances which so lower and depress the syste- mic circulating power, that the blood in the aneurism flows with a languid motion which greatly favors its coagulation. Such causes may be found in certain depressing and debilitating maladies, or may be artificially induced, as, for instance, by a greatly restricted diet, certain medicines, venesection, etc.; and, indeed, under either of these conditions, consolidation of blood with- in the sac has several times taken place. Another and very opposite condi- tion may conduce to cure, viz., some severe inflammatory disease affecting a totally different part of the body. Thus a case of subclavian aneurism be- 1 For these details, see an excellent paper “On Aneurisms which do not pulsate,” by Mr. Mor- rant Baker. (St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xv. p. 75.) With characteristic courtesy, seeing that my diagnosis was erroneous, that gentleman has suppressed my name. I have no objection, however, in the almost impossible circumstances of the case, to acknowledge that, and to show how and why, I was wrong. 2 The older writers considered all obliteration of the aneurism and the implicated artery as an effect of inflammation. This erroneous view led to many misinterpretations of occasional phe- nomena.