DELIGATION OP ARTERIES. 311 seated deeply in a groove, and the dissection should be continued along the side of the os pisiforme until the vessel is brought into view. The latter part of the dissection will he facilitated by slightly flexing the hand (Fig. 492). Pass the needle under the artery from within outward. Ligation op the Abdominal Aorta.—The abdominal aorta lies in front, and rather to the left side, of the bodies of the vertebrae, having the vena cava ascendens on its right side, the sympathetic nerve on its left, and the left lumbar veins behind. It may be ligatured about one inch above its bifurcation at the fourth lumbar vertebra. Cooper’s Operation (Fig. 493).—Place the patient on his back, with knees drawn up and legs flexed. Make an incision, three inches in length, along the linea alba, the middle of it being on a level with the umbilicus, but a little to the left thereof, and open the peritoneum. Push the intestines aside, find the artery by its pulsations, and with a finger nail scratch through the peritoneum covering it on the left side. Pass the needle from left to right, taking care not to embrace the sympathetic nerve, and not to injure the vena cava. Murray’s Operation.—Murray made an elliptical incision on the left side, six inches in length, from the cartilage of the tenth rib downward, and with its concavity forward, to within an inch of the an- To illustrate cooper’s method terior superior spinous process of the ilium. The onying the abdominal aorta. (s«- tissues were then carefully divided to the perito- neum, which was raised from the iliac fossa and psoas muscle, 'when, with great difliculty, and by scratching with the end of a director as well as with the finger nails, room was made to pass the ligature around the artery, which was tied three or four lines above its bifurcation. The patient died in twenty- three hours. The abdominal aorta was ligatured for the first time in 1817 by Sir Astley Cooper. ISText it was ligatured by James, of Exeter, in 1829 ; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope, in 1834; by Monteiro, at Rio Janeiro, in 1842; by South, in 1856; and since that time by Hunter McGuire, of Richmond (1868), by Stokes, by Watson, and by both Czerny of Vienna and Czerny of Heidelberg, making in all ten operations with ten deaths. The most interesting of these cases was Monteiro’s, in which the aorta was tied for a large false aneurism on the lower and right side of the abdomen. The incisions were made much as in Murray’s case, and the artery was ligatured with great difliculty. The patient died from secondary hemorrhage on the tenth day. Ligation of the Common Iliac Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The com- mon iliac arteries begin at the bifurcation of the abdominal aorta on the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a point directly behind the left side of the umbilicus. They vary in length from three-fourths of an inch, to three inches, averaging about two inches (L. Holden). They diverge from each other, and run downward and outward on each side to the margin °f the pelvis opposite the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, where they in turn each divide into the external and internal iliac arteries. The artery on the right side has on an average the same length as the artery on the left side (L. Holden). But the surgical relations of the two arteries are not identical.