580 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. in animals. Thus the nerves retain their properties in the midst of foci of suppuration, while the perifascicular tissue is the seat of hypersemia, serous exudation, and even diffuse suppuration (Cornil and Ranvier). The resistance of nerves is connected with the structure of the lamellar sheath, and with the anastomoses of the vessels in the perifascicular and intrafascicular connective-tissue. This special circulation of the nerves indi- cates to the surgeon that he should not hasten to resect the ends of nerves, in contused wounds for example; and it also explains the possibility of denud- ing a large extent of a nerve (in the operation of elongation, for instance) without exposing it to mortification. Nevertheless, neuritis is still sufficiently frequent, especially in its subacute or chronic form. Etiology of Neuritis.—Etiologically considered, neuritis includes three prin- cipal varieties:— (1) Traumatic neuritis. This is observed more frequently, or is more intense, after compression, contusion, puncture, and incomplete section, than after clean-cut, complete division. (2) Spontaneous or primary neuritis. This is rare; it is observed after the action of moist cold, and in subjects generally predisposed—rheumatic, arthritic, etc. It may be followed by certain palsies and neuralgias; herpes zoster belongs to this variety. (8) Secondary neuritis. This is very frequent and may be subdivided into neuritis by contiguity, and the neuritis of general diseases. Neuritis by contiguity is developed by propagation of inflammation from organs situated in the neighborhood of the nerve: neuritis of the intercostal nerves in pleurisy (Beau); neuritis of the nerves of the extremities resulting from a focus of inflammation, an arthritis, an osteitis, or other organic lesion; neuritis in Pott’s disease; neuritis after alveolo-dental periostitis; neuritis following inflammation of tendons and tenotomy (Erb); neuritis in perinephritic phlegmon, psoitis, etc. Neuritis of General Diseases.—The acute infectious diseases may be followed by circumscribed neuritis: typhoid fever (Nothnagel); typhus fever (Bern- hardt). Charcot and Vulpian described, in 1863, the alterations of the nerves in diphtheria; according to Buhl, the neuritis may, in this affection, reach the roots of the spinal nerves, and even the cord itself. Certain forms of poison- ing may cause neuritis; poisoning by carbonic oxide (Leudet); alcoholism (Magnan); perhaps lead-poisoning (Charcot, Westphal). _ Rheumatism and gout may be accompanied by neuritis ; a fact wThich sur- geons should well understand, for by appropriate medical treatment they may hope to cause the disappearance of persistent neuralgias, which otherwise they would be tempted to treat by operation. Syphilis occasions neuritis. In anaesthetic leprosy, there is, according to Virchow, a perineuritis which leads to destruction of the nerve fibres. There remains now to be considered that peculiar, irritative process of the nervous tissues—a process of a progressively encroaching character—which leads to hyperplasia of the connective tissue and degeneration of the nerve fibres. In the case of the nerves, this process is considered as a form of neu- ritis ; it is not, however, a true inflammation, but there is no special word to designate it, and its intimate nature has not yet been thoroughly determined. This encroaching neuritis presents itself in the nerves in two forms: de- scending neuritis and ascending neuritis. Descending neuritis, studied by Charcot, Bouchard, Cornil, and Vulpian, occurs in cases of descending sclerosis of the spinal cord, and after lesions of certain parts of the encephalon. Vulpian thus describes it: “ It is known