328 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. maintained, the blood remains fluid, but when this equilibrium is disturbed by events in the blood or bloodvessels (or by the removal of the blood), it undergoes changes which result in coagulation.” (Foster.) So delicate is the sensibility of the blood to mechanical irritation or hin- drance in its flow, that the slightest injury or roughening of the endothelial lining membrane may produce a deposit of fibrillated fibrin. A delicate needle, or wire, or thread, thrust into the lumen of a healthy vessel, precipi- tates coagulation upon the foreign body. The white corpuscles are found clustered in great numbers on the foreign body, and, when the mass is exam- ined with the microscope, the corpuscles seem to serve as starting points for the development of fibrin. (Reichert.) Causes and Clinical History of Phlebitis.—Phlebitis has been termed traumatic and idiopathic, and the latter term has been applied indiscriminately to all forms of phlebitis not directly due to an appreciable lesion. Idiopathic -phlebitis is comparatively a rare affection (Virchow). It may occur without a traumatism, as from exposure to cold, or as a sequel to fevers and varicosities (Hamilton). It may occur as a complication of syphilis (Hut- chinson), or as a result of the gouty diathesis (Paget). From whatever cause it may proceed, idiopathic phlebitis usually affects the veins of the lower extremities. Traumatic phlebitis may be caused by a partial or complete solution of con- tinuity of the venous walls, by contiguity of inflamed tissues, or by violent muscular action and pressure. The inflammation of the uterine sinuses during and after parturition, which Cornil and Ranvier style “ la phlebite spontanee,” is really a form of traumatic phlebitis, due to the irritation resulting from pressure and muscular action. Phlebitis has been described as acute and chronic (Gross); adhesive and suppurative (Bryant); gouty and diffuse (Hamilton). These terms but ex- press varying conditions of one pathological process—inflammation of a vein ; whether this inflammatory process shall result in adhesion or suppuration, shall become diffused, or shall assume a chronic form, will depend solely upon the character and cause of the disease, and upon the physical power of the patient to resist its progress. I. Idiopathic Phlebitis. (1) Syphilitic Phlebitis. — Mr. Hutchinson has called attention to the very few cases of syphilitic phlebitis which have been recorded, and yet he says that most surgeons are familiar with the fact that in- flammations around varices, and even about otherwise healthy veins, are not infrequent in syphilitic subjects.1 Mr. Hutchinson further says, “ I think also that I have seen several cases in which the thrombosis and phlebitis were at- tended by other conditions sufficiently peculiar to justify a belief that they were of specific origin. In some there has been great excess of inflammation, a large hard mass forming in the cellular tissue, and threatening to slough, much as subcutaneous gummata often do. These cases are much benefited by the iodide of potassium, so far as prevention of sloughing is concerned, but the thrombotic plugging remains.”2 (2) Gouty Phlebitis.—Subjects (says Mr. Bryant) who are gouty from heredi- tary or acquired causes are liable to phlebitis. Paget has described the affec- tion in his “ Clinical Lectures,” and Mr. Gay has written upon it. In such cases the phlebitis may have no intrinsic characters by which to distinguish it, yet not rarely it has peculiar marks, especially in its symmetry, apparent metastases, and frequent recurrences. Like other forms, it is more common 1 J. H. C. Simes and J. YVm. White, in Cornil on Syphilis. 2 Ibid.