496 ANEURISM. I have not wished to alter these numbers, gathered from Mr. Rivington’s paper, by the addition of the only case published since it was written. This was Yon Neiden’s1 case; pressure, continued for ten weeks, failed; ligature of the carotid cured. Relapse occurred, or threatened, on the other side, in one case; the condi- tion was successfully treated by the administration of digitalis, local com- pression, and the application of ice. Relapse on the same side occurred eight times, six of the cases being trau- matic; subsidence took place in one idiopathic case, and in two of the traumatic cases. In two American cases, both carotids were tied, and in a third (Frothingham), after partial relapse, the spongy remains of the tumor were dissected out. Since relapse is most frequent in traumatic cases, it is probable that the condition arises from arterio-venous aneurism; or, perhaps, that both carotids, or one carotid and a branch from the other, communicate with the sac of an aneurism behind the orbit. Ligature in the orbit of an artery feeding an orbital aneurism can only be employed in very exceptional circumstances. The case so treated by Mr. Lans- downe resulted from a wound of the upper eyelid, which was followed by a consecutive traumatic aneurism of the injured vessel. Carotid Aneurism.—Carotid aneurism has been said to be more common in women than in men; but this is an error. I find in Pilz’s tables, to be quoted immediately, 88 cases of this disease; of these, 55 were in men and 28 in women, the sex in 5 not being stated. The external branch is affected in 7 per cent, of the cases of carotid aneurism; the internal in about 5.75 per cent. The very large proportion of 87.25 per cent, belongs to the primitive trunk. The most usual point for the appearance of the tumor is the bifurcation, but it may also have its seat quite at the lower part of the neck, immediately above the clavicle. For reasons which will appear shortly, I prefer to divide these cases into those of high carotid aneurism, to be now investigated, and of low carotid aneurism, which can be better jliscussed with subclavian, innominate, and aortic aneurisms, under the category of aneurism at the root of the neck. Aneurism of the carotid artery, at or near the bifurcation, lies between the trachea and the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is so easy of diagnosis that nothing on that subject need be said here;2 but the surgeon should be aware that a certain normal increase in the size of the artery, just at its division, is, especially in women, not very unusual, and that this expansion may, as age advances, become more conspicuous, either from the loss of subcutaneous fat, frequent in elderly females, or from real enlargement, which may not, how- ever, pass the limits dividing disease from mere peculiarity of form. Hence, a pulsating tumor at this part of the female neck should not be at once considered, still less treated, as aneurismal, more especially if it have been discovered through accident, by touch or sight, or have been merely observed by some third person, the patient experiencing no painful or obstructive symptoms. The rule, in such a case, is to carefully watch the tumor, and to measure it by compasses or other means, from day to day, or week by week. If it be stationary, and no-pressure symptoms arise, surgical interference is unnecessary, or may at least be postponed. Case XYII.—I was consulted in November, 1878, by Mrs. G., aged 62, on account of a pulsating tumor on the right side of her neck, which gave her no inconvenience, and had first been observed by her husband. There was no history of injury, and the 1 Zeitschrift fiir praktisch. Medizin, No. 47. 2 Certain points of differential diagnosis between this disease and certain cysts of the neck, are given at p. 395.