738 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. operation, if adopted at all, should only be when the joint is simply opened, but not seriously fractured, and then it should only be with complete drainage and antiseptic management. Science has not yet proven whether or not the latter plan will be reasonably successful. Excision of the Ankle.—The statistics of this operation are scanty. The mortality is nominally higher than that of conservative treatment, because, doubtless, severer cases have been selected for operation than for conser- vatism:— Excision for Gunshot Wounds of the Ankle. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Culbertson 45 12 Circular No. 6, S. G. 0 18 6 Stromeyer .......... 1 0 Totals . . .64 18 Mortality, 28 per cent. Amputation of the Lower Third of the Leg for Gunshot Wound of the Ankle. —Such is the imperfection of the science of surgical statistics, that it is next to impossible to procure any information on this exact point, for of all the thou- sands of cases of amputation of the leg which have been tabulated, scarcely any are minutely classified. Traumatic amputations just above the ankle have in general a mortality of thirty-two per cent., taking all kinds of prac-' tice together. The gunshot cases doubtless give a still higher rate of deaths, for the worst cases go to the amputating table, and operations in military surgery are generally more fatal than in civil practice. We may probably estimate the mortality of amputation above the ankle, for gunshot fracture, as at least thirty-five per cent. Nominally, then, we should have the mortality of conservative treatment 20 per cent.; of excision 28 per cent.; and of amputation 32 per cent. For the reasons above stated, however, we cannot guide our practice by the footings of figures alone. L. Legouest rejects excision of the ankle as improper. Hueter favors it in suppurat- ing cases. Von Langenbeck recommends excision of the ankle for many cases of gunshot injury. F. H. Hamilton and A. Rose favor the operation in suitable cases. Pirogoff believed excision of the ankle in compound fracture to be safer than ampu- tation, and placed conservative treatment between the two. Kade disapproves the operation. Gant, in gunshot wounds, generally prefers resection to amputation. Ash- hurst favors excision. In the first edition of Holmes’s System of Surgery, that author opposed resection, but in the second edition, changed his opinion, and favored it. Gross favors excision in proper cases. Erichsen opposes the operation. Druitt also opposes it. These are specimens of the mass of contradictory opinions held by surgi- cal authorities. It is evident that we can no more decide the treatment of wounded ankles by a consensus of opinions than we can by the hare footing of figures. Statistics and opinions are both valuable, hut we must exercise reason and judgment in their use. Facts must settle the doctrines ; and it is evident at a glance that facts do not justify the confusion of surgical lite- rature on this subject. The recorded cases show that there is no such desperate danger in conser- vative treatment, as should rule that method summarily out of existence. I think that all thoughtful surgeons will sustain the following general con- clusions :— (1) When the capsule of the ankle-joint is simply opened by the bullet,