663 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. and outward from the acromion in examining a sound shoulder, it comes at once upon the tuberosity of the humerus, which may he grasped between the thumb and finger, and by rotation of the limb can be made distinctly obvious unless the swelling be very extraordinary. Slight differences exist among patients, or even between the two shoulders of the same patient in the distance of the tuberosity below the acromion; hut in a true dislocation, the finger presses into a deep vacuity from which the head of the bone has completely gone. (2) Position of Caput Humeri.—If now the head of the humerus be sought for, it will be found as a round, smooth, bony tumor, in the axillary, the coracoid, or the scapular region, according to the direction of its displace- ment. (3) Position of Elbow.—If the patient be set upright, with both acromions on the same level, the arm of the affected side will be found to stand out obliquely from the body, so that, if the shoulders he kept level, the patient cannot voluntarily press his elbow against his side, and if the surgeon press it in, it springs out again as soon as the pressure is removed. If the dislo- cation is forward, the elbow is inclined outward and backward; but if the dislocation is backward, the elbow inclines more forward. These, positions are due to the fact that, when the head of the humerus is thrown downward, the deltoid and the strong upper portion of the capsular ligament are put forcibly on the stretch, and throw the elbow outward, while if the direction of the dislocation be backward or forward, the untorn anterior or posterior parts of the ligament, and the corresponding parts of the deltoid, being stretched, act to give the elbow its characteristic position. If left to him- self, the patient finds it painful to sustain the elbow in this position, and relieves himself by lowering the affected shoulder, and flexing his body in the same direction, so as to relieve the tension by allowing the elbow to hang more nearly vertically. In this position, the whole affected shoulder will be seen to be lower than the sound one. (4) A favorite test of dislocation [known as Dugas’s test], is to place the hand of the affected side on the prominence of the sound shoulder. If the shoulder is dislocated, the elbow will be elevated and will stand out promi- nently in front of the breast, and no moderate force will cause it to lie down against the sternum. This is a test of decided value, but, for it to be well applied, it is often necessary to disarm the patient’s voluntary muscular re- sistance by the use of an anaesthetic. (5) Test by Application of Rule.—Another striking symptom is elicited by taking a straight rule, and applying it along the outer border of the humerus, from the external condyle to the acromion. If the bone be in correct position, the rule will stand out some three-quarters of an inch from the acromion; but if the head of the humerus have moved inward, either from dislocation or from fracture of the neck or glenoid cavity of the scapula, the rule will rest against the point of the acromion, unless borne outward by unusual swelling or other deformity. (6) Character of Crepitus.—The dislocated shoulder, when freely moved, sometimes yields a ripply, rubbing sensation, as of hard parts against tense ligamentous edges; but this is very different from the hard, gritty crepitus of newly fractured bone. (7) Finally, if a dislocation be reduced, there is generally no spontaneous ten- dency to a reluxation, but in the fractures of this region there is often a strong tendency for the broken parts to slip out of place. If, now, we bring together these symptoms in tabular form, and place after them the symptoms of the different fractures of this region, the means of diagnosis will be clear:—