694 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. resisting bands, and partly because they would often, by mere accident, bring the joint into a more favorable position than that of extension. This adjuster is a most admirable instrument for producing extension, not only in luxations of the hip, but in all dislocations, especially ancient ones. Making its counter-extension from a point near the axis of motion of the joint, it allows of freest movements in all directions, and will, by this combi- nation of manipulation and strong extension, produce results which the pulleys can never accomplish. Unfortunately, this admirable instrument is no longer manufactured, the modern methods of manipulation having done away with so many of its indications. Forward Dislocations.—Forward dislocations include under one group all the varieties of displacement in which the head of the femur is thrown into a position anterior to a longitudinal line drawn through the acetabulum. The general distinctions by which these are rendered a separate group from the whole class of backward luxations, arise from the anatomical fact that the trochanter major cannot participate in the forward movement of the head, just as it cannot go back with any of the backward luxations, and for the same reason, viz., the opposition of the Y ligament. The position of the limb is therefore in many respects the direct opposite of that seen in the backward group in general, eversion instead of inversion being a constant symptom; and the movements for effecting reduction are a more or less exact reversal of those which have been already described. The group of forward dislocations includes the pubic luxations, or those directly forward, and the thyroid, or those upon the thyroid or obturator foramen. General Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment.—Forward luxations usually occur in accidents where the force is applied to the thigh in full extension, as in falls upon the feet or knee, with the limb straight or bent a little back. Rarely, blows upon the hip have been known to cause this, as they have other forms of luxation. Extreme backward bending of the hip-joint without ex- ternal violence has been known to produce a pubic dislocation, as in the case of Ure,1 where the accident occurred in the act of striking out in swimming. Here also the limb must have been widely abducted at the same moment, though the abducted position more commonly causes the thyroid dislocation than the pubic. Sudden separation of the knees, as when a crushing weight falls upon the body, or as when in mounting a horse, or stepping upon a moving object, one foot is carried away from the other, may cause this injury. The head of the femur is driven through the front of the capsule, inside of the Y ligament, whose traction, assisted by that of the obturator internus, now rolls the shaft of the bone outward, and binds the trochanter against the rim of the acetabulum. The limb will therefore be externally rotated. It is usually abducted, and in the pubic variety commonly shortened ; in thyroid dislocations it is lengthened. The treatment of forward dislocations requires a more or less complete reversal of the manipulations used in the backward forms. It varies some- what according to the different locations of the femoral head. HI. Dislocation upon the Pubis.—Causes.—Extreme extension, or a little backward bending of the thigh at the moment of receiving a sudden blow, or falling upon the feet or knees, has been the cause assigned in most of the few recorded cases of pubic dislocation. It may also be produced by a very Lancet, Nov. 1857.