vol. hi.—35 ( 545 ) INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. BY M. NICAISE, M.D., PROFESSOR “ AGREGe” IN THE FACULTY OF MEDICINE OF PARIS ; SURGEON TO THE HOSPITALS, PARIS. TRANSLATED BY J. H. C. SIMES, M.D., DEMONSTRATOR OF PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA | ASSISTANT SURGEON TO THE EPISCOPAL HOSPITAL, PHILADELPHIA. The different varieties of nerves (spinal nerves, cranial nerves, great sym- pathetic nerve) may be affected by the same lesions, which give rise to symp- toms differing with each variety. In the case of the cranial nerves, the symptoms vary with each nerve, in consequence of its special function; therefore a general study of their lesions cannot be made. But this is not so with the spinal nerves, for whatever nerve is affected, the primary and secondary symptoms are always the same. The general considerations which follow, relate, therefore, only to spinal nerves. The history of the lesions of the other varieties of nerves belongs to regional pathology. "VYe will successively consider: (1) Traumatic lesions of nerves, in con- nection with which will he given an account of the process of repair of nerves after wounds, and of the functional and trophic disturbances secondary to injuries of these organs ; (2) Inflammatory lesions of nerves; (3) Neuralgia; (4) Tumors of nerves, and the affection known as painful subcutaneous tubercle; (5) Tetanus, in which disease the nervous element plays so im- portant a part; and, finally, (6) The various operations which are practised upon nerves. Traumatic Lesions of Nerves. The primary and secondary symptoms of traumatic nerve lesions are pretty much the same as regards their nature, in the different injuries. But they differ in their intensity, their acuteness, their dissemination, their dura- tion, and the greater or less simultaneousness of their development, accord- ing to the nature of the lesions. Therefore a general study of traumatisms of nerves is not sufficient. It is essential to examine each of them succes- sively, pointing out the special symptoms in each case, and referring to a special section for the complete study of each of these symptoms. This method of proceeding will permit us, moreover, to give in connection with the several varieties of injury, the indications for immediate treatment applicable to each. We may, with Tripier, divide traumatisms of nerves into two principal