355 CIRSOID ARTERIAL TUMOR. constant, and is only due to the pressure of the growth upon the cutaneous nerves. As the tumor progresses in size, more marked inflammatory changes occur; adhesions to the skin take place; and ulcerations, with alarming hem- orrhages, are not infrequent. In some instances, especially in cirsoid tumor of the scalp, pressure of the growth upon the calvaria may interfere with the nutrition of the skull. Treatment.—It may he said of the treatment of cirsoid arterial tumors, in common with arterial, capillary, and venous cutaneous tumors, that no me- thod is as safe or sure as direct local treatment. The study of a large num- ber of cases leads me to this conclusion. For a long time deligation of the main trunk or trunks was the favorite practice. Sometimes this was done to arrest hemorrhage due to ulceration or accident, in some few cases to arrest hemorrhage after or during an attempt at removal, but most frequently the intention was to cut off the blood-supply. Since the vast majority of vascular tumors occupy the neck, face, and scalp, the carotids have been often tied in the treatment of these growths. In my “ Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery,”11 have collected 803 cases of deligation of the caro- tid. Hot including 60 cases of intra-orbital aneurism (pulsating vascular tumor within the orbit), there were 98 cases of ligature of the carotid for vascular growth above the clavicle, and chiefly of the head. The results are not such as to encourage the careful operator in a repetition of the procedure. By reference to the Table accompanying this paper, and which, with the exception of a single case (that of McBurney), is taken from my work on the Arteries, the results may be studied in detail. At the risk of repetition, and in order to emphasize the above remark, it may be said that of 73 cases in which the common carotid was tied, almost 30 per cent, proved fatal, and the proportion of patients that were cured out of 51 who recovered from the operation (about 50 per cent.), is not encouraging. Deligation of a main trunk, I am convinced, is only justifiable in case of hemorrhage which can- not be arrested by any other means, or after all other methods have been essayed. As to the efficacy of the ligature of the parent trunk to arrest dangerous and accidental hemorrhage, the case of Dr. Edward Bradley, of Hew York, may be cited. In the attempt to remove a large vascular tumor of the parotid and submaxillary region, such alarming hemorrhage occurred that it became necessary to tie the common carotid before the operation was fairly under way. A cure resulted, although the operation of removal was not completed. Two patients, operated on by Pirogoff, on account of hemorrhage due to ulceration, recovered, and another (a child) died from recurring hemorrhage after it had been carelessly taken out of the reach of surgical aid. Jiingken’s patient recovered, and Heine’s case of cirsoid aneurism was cured by ligature of the carotid and excision of the mass, the external carotid having previously been tied. Dewar’s case was cured. The common carotid artery in all these cases was tied to arrest hemorrhage. Gr. Burke cured a case by ligature of the external carotid, and direct application of the actual cautery to the tumor. Both common trunks were tied in nine cases. The operators were Blackman, Gunderloch and Muller, Kuhl, Mussey, Pirogoff, Robert, Rodgers and Van Buren, Ullman, and Warren. The interval between the two operations varied, and is given in the table. Remarkable as it may seem, only two of these patients died. Of the seven who recovered, one was cured (not how- ever until after compression was made over the tumor), and two were improved. Mussey’s patient was only improved after the second ligation, but was cured 1 New York, 1879.