288 INJUKIES OF BLOODVESSELS. the innominate, the common carotid, the pneumogastric nerve, and its branch the recurrent laryngeal; and more externally and above, the phrenic nerve, Fig. 469.* Showing Sedillot’s method of tying the innominate artery. (Sgdillot.) the internal jugular vein, the trunk of the subclavian, and the origins of the vertebral, inferior thyroid, and internal mammary arteries.2 This procedure enables the surgeon to judge of the condition of the vessels on which he operates, to modify his manoeuvres according to their pathological state, and to expose, ligate, and divide Fig. 470. between the two ligatures one or several arteries, to assure the success of his ope- ration. Manec’s Transverse Operation. — Make an incision 9 centimetres (3J inches) in length, extending from a point midway between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, toward the right shoulder, 1| centimetres, (about f inch) above the clavicle (Fig. 470), through the skin and platysma myoides; then, on a grooved director, divide the sterno-mastoid as far as the incision ex- tends, and likewise, successively, the ster- no-hyoid and sterno-thyroid. Isolate the innominate artery with the handle of the scalpel and the director, taking care to avoid the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves.3 Appreciation.—The procedures of Sedillot ^ . ,, , , „ and Manec may appear to be more bril- artery. (Sediiiot.) liant; but when we consider the climculty of performing such an operation during life, and the obstacles caused by the effusion of blood at the bottom of a narrow wound, into which the instruments are with difficulty introduced, we shall recognize, I believe, that Mott’s operation is the most prudent and * Permission to copy this wood-cut and many others that follow it, to which his name is attached, has been generously given to the writer by Professor Sedillot, Member of the Insti- tute, etc., for which courtesy it is but just to make this acknowledgment. 2 Medecine Operatoire, t. i. pp. 240, 241. Paris, 1865. 3 Ibid., pp. 241, 242.