INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 146 Beneath the fascia there was an extensive coagulum which spread in the thigh through the intermuscular spaces to the back of the limb.1 The cause of death appears to have been “ shock,” and an extensive hemor- rhage from the ruptured femoral artery which was hidden from view by the integuments, but mainly the latter. The next example shows that the femoral artery and vein may both be torn across when pressed upon by a heavy weight without any corresponding fracture or any perceptible breach of the integuments:— A man, aged 50, had one wheel of a cart loaded with manure pass over his right thigh. Half an hour afterward he was brought to University College Hospital in a state of extreme collapse ; the limb was much swollen and very tense to above the middle of the thigh ; foot cold, with motion and sensation in it lost; no pulsation in the tibial arteries. There were scarcely any bruises visible, and the bone was unin- jured. Next morning the limb was very livid. There was no increase in the circum- ference, but the extravasation extended somewhat higher on the inner side. There was no pulsation nor bruit in the swelling. The limb was amputated about two inches below the trochanter ; but the patient sank and died soon after the operation. On dissecting the ablated member, all the intermuscular septa were found distended with coagula. On the inner side of the limb, above the popliteal space, there was a large pulpy cavity in which the femoral artery and vein were both found torn completely across; both were plugged by firm coagula at each end. The artery was much con- tracted for two inches above the rupture, and its torn end was nearly closed thereby. The artery was also atheromatous, and slightly calcified here and there.2 In the following instance there was a rupture involving all the coats of the left femoral artery ; but it was cut down upon, the clots were turned out, and both ends were secured by catgut ligatures, with a good result The subject was a collier, aged 30, a patient at the Manchester Royal Infirmary, whose case is reported in the British Medical Journal for August 8, 1874. He ruptured ' his left femoral artery while straining at his work. He was admitted with a large, dif- fused, non-pulsatile swelling in the upper part of his left thigh, and no pulsation in the arteries of his leg. From the history of the case, and the condition of the limb, a diagnosis of rupture of the femoral artery was made. Lister’s aortic tourniquet was applied, an incision over Scarpa’s triangle was made, a large quantity of coagulated blood was removed, and the divided ends of the artery were seen and secured by catgut ligatures. The man progressed uninterruptedly to recovery. The proper thing to do in cases such as these would therefore seem to be to restrain the inward effusion of blood as soon as possible by digital com- pression, or by the application of a tourniquet, or Esmarch’s elastic ligature, until the seat of the rupture can be laid open by incisions, the clots turned out, and both ends of the artery found and securely tied with prepared cat- gut. The wound should also receive antiseptic treatment. But, in most cases, the timely restraint of the extravasation of blood into the connective tissue of the limb is a matter of paramount importance; for, if this effusion be not soon suppressed, the patient may perish directly from loss of blood, as hap- pened in two instances related above. The inner and middle coats of the femoral artery are sometimes lacerated by a blow upon the thigh, whereupon a femoral aneurism ensues from dila- tation of the external tunic. Mr. Home has reported the following case which was under the care of Mr. Birch, at St. Thomas’s Hospital:— John Lewis, a negro, received a blow on the anterior part of his right thigh. About a month afterward he perceived a small tumor, which increased ; his own expression was that he could feel it thump, thump. The tumor appears to have rapidly enlarged. 1 British Medical Journal, November 22, 1873, p. 603. 2 Ibid., July 30, 1870, p. 116.