739 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. without any fracture, or with only a slight scratch or groove along the bor- der of the bone, it is perfectly rational to try conservative treatment with drainage, and antiseptic precautions. (2) When the bullet has traversed the joint, and comminuted its interior, without shattering the tibia too far upward and without destroying the me- chanism or circulation- of the foot, or the innervation of its plantar surface, resection will generally save a useful member, with perhaps less risk than amputation. If conservative treatment should have been commenced, and in any case should present unfavorable and dangerous symptoms, secondary resection might be performed. (3) If the foot be greatly shattered, or have lost its circulation, so as to be threatened with mortification, or have lost the innervation of its plantar sur- face, it should be amputated. Also if the tibia be shattered more than about two inches above the joint, it will necessitate amputation. (4) Cases which, having been treated, conservatively but without attention to drainage and antiseptics, finally present caries of the tibia, extending more than two inches upward, require amputation. (5) Cases which in ordinary circumstances would require resection, may necessitate amputation if they are to be transported a long distance in ambu- lances, as it is difficult to manage a resected ankle in a jolting vehicle, on bad military roads. Gunshot Fractures of the Tarsus and Metatarsus.—I find in my mili- tary memoranda, twenty-one cases of this class, with one death. Primarily they are not very dangerous, but they often open up the complicated articula- tions of the tarsus, and set in action a suppurative synovitis which is of a some- what unmanageable character on account of the impossibility of effectually washing out the cavities. The difficulty is a purely mechanical one, but none tlie less formidable, for the putrefaction of pus in the interior may give rise to dangerous complications. If the member be shattered beyond redemp- tion, it must be amputated. If only certain parts be injured, sound judg- ment will often dictate a resection. The place and mode of either operation are to be settled on general surgical principles, such as guide us in civil practice. If the bones be only perforated, hut not utterly destroyed, conservative treatment will demand consideration. If adopted, it will be generally best to enlarge the orifices of the wound, scoop out, or in some other way carefully remove, all loose fragments, and then treat the injury thoroughly with anti- septics, and, if possible, with refrigerating applications. The field of battle, however, rarely furnishes anything colder than spring water for such uses. If the joints of the foot have only been pierced with bird shot, conservative, antiseptic treatment, without enlarging the orifices, will be worth trying. Buckshot wounds are more serious, but in favorable cases may he treated in the same way, if the projectile be not lodged within the member. Bullets and buckshot lodged in the foot should be extracted, or they may lead to grave consequences, as in the case of General Garibaldi. Nelaton’s probe, which won its reputation in determining the position of the ball in this case, is, though not absolutely useless, an unreliable and misleading in- strument. When a bullet penetrates spongy hones, it leaves its channel stud- ded with chips of lead rasped off by the rough bony surfaces, and these chips mark the porcelain ball of the probe in the same way that the bullet itself would do. A better instrument for diagnosis, in many cases, is the ordinary dressing forceps of the surgeon’s pocket case. The tips of some of these for- ceps are so perfect, that they may be pressed down on any solid substance in the bottom of the wound, and made to bite out a chip of lead or of spongy