ANGEIOMATA. 367 GL Bushe removed a pulsating growth, and tied the external carotid to arrest the hemorrhage. The patient recovered and was cured. Mastermann tied the artery, ligated a portion of the tumor, and cauterized the remainder with nitrate of silver, with a cure. Roser tied the artery and a cure resulted. Sedillot’s patient “recovered.” Wallace’s was “improved.” Wutzer’s two cases “recovered,” and McBur- ney’s has been much improved, with a great probability of a permanent cure. Angeiomata.—The three next varieties of “ vascular tumor,” which may be grouped together under the name of Angeiomata, are: (1) the Arterial Cuta- neous Tumor, or Aneurism by Anastomosis, composed of dilatations or elonga- tions of the arterioles, either normal or new-formed, in the skin; (2) the Capillary Cutaneous Tumor, consisting of dilatations and elongations of the normal or new-formed capillaries of the skin ; and (3) the Venous Cutaneous Tumor (Cavernous Ncevus, or simply Ncevus), composed of dilatations of the normal or new-formed venous radicles of the skin. The angeiomata are considered by some writers as strictly new-formations of bloodvessels. There is little doubt, however, that many vascular tumors are chiefly made up of normal vessels which have Undergone dilatation or hypertrophy. Other names that have been given to angeiomata are congeni- tal nsevus, erectile tumor, telangiectasis or plexiform angeioma, aneurism by anastomosis, ecchymoma, cavernous nsevus, and fungus hsematodes. Accord- ing to Depaul, one-third of the children born in one of the eleemosynary institutions at Paris, had congenital nsevi, the greater number of which dis- appeared spontaneously during the first few months of life. They occur chiefly in the skin, and are especially apt to appear on the forehead, face, ears, and neck. Structure and Symptoms.—Angeiomata commonly form flattened, slightly projecting tumors, varying in size from a mere speck to as much as an inch in diameter, and are composed of new-formed, dilated, freely anastomosing capillaries, arterioles, and veins, in irregular, labyrinthine masses. They vary in color, being at times grayish-blue or red. Often the only indication of their presence is the appearance of a diffuse redness over a considerable surface. Examined microscopically, the walls of the vessels are crowded with cells, and the vessels are imbedded in a network of fibrous and adipose tissue. The superficial and deep cutaneous vessels—including the vessels of the hair follicles, sweat glands, and adipose tissue—join in the formation of these tumors. The disease may extend into the muscles and deeper tissues. The majority of angeiomata are soft and yielding, and can be emptied by pressure; but when of great vascularity and long standing, when there has been an extensive proliferation of the perivascular connective tissue, pressure will not cause their disappearance. Some are very painful, and others en- tirely free from sensibility. Venous cutaneous tumors are composed, in great part, of new-formed, erec- tile tissue, analogous to that found in the corpora cavernosa. The structure is white and dense, the caverns communicating freely with each other. These at times are found to contain the chalky concretions which have been con- sidered on a previous page as phlebolites. The circulation is active in these tumors, and their volume variable. The walls of the sinuses contain a dense, fibrous stroma, involuntary mus- cular tissue, and striated muscular fibres when the tumor is encroaching on the muscles. They are lined by the same endothelium as the normal veins. In specimens removed and immediately immersed in alcohol, which causes instant coagulation of the blood in the sinuses, it is found that the blood pre-