386 ANEURISM. It is not uncommon to see in the post-mortem room such an aorta, puckered, grooved, and roughened, so that few patches of the surface remain normal; yet no aneurism may be present, although the channel is somewhat widened. If the disease affect some more superficial vessel, the lengthening thereby produced is marked by the undulations and zigzag course of the artery. Nevertheless, the tendency of this new formation is towards degeneration, fatty or calcareous. Both these begin in the deeper layers of the tissue; the former by the gradual accumulation of oil-globules around the nuclei of the proliferating cell, whose walls give way, so that the oil lies among the fibres, which then also degenerate; cholesterine crystals are deposited, and when the process is complete, the whole mass becomes a bag of gruel-like or porridge-like substance—the condition indicated by the word atheroma. If this burst into the vessel through the epithelial covering, it forms the “ athero- matous ulcer,” which not unfrequently heals, leaving a cicatricial loss of sub- stance. The calcification resulting from the deposit of minute molecules of lime salts in the deeper pai’ts of the firm new tissue, proceeds gradually towards the surface; it sometimes converts the whole patch into lime; some- times it is accompanied by fatty degeneration of the more superficial parts. In such large vessels as the aorta and its immediate branches, larger or smaller 'specks only will have become bony; vessels of less calibre may be converted into rigid, bone-like tubes. Occasionally a patch, more especially if fatty degeneration have helped it on its course, may break through the epithelial lining, and lie bare to the blood ; sometimes the current getting under such a piece will turn it sideways to the vessel, so that its edge projects into the stream and may gather a clump of fibrine around it, or the whole piece may be washed bodily away from the place of its formation, to be entangled and to form an embolus somewhere in a narrower part of the circulation, while the spot whence it came remains as an ulcer and as a weakened part of the artery. The effects upon vessels of these different results of inflammation, in their various stages, are these-:— The soft gelatinous growth may, indeed often does, rapidly produce a loss of substance in the vascular walls; if it follow this course, the especial weakness which may give rise to aneurism is produced, and such disease is imminent according to the size of the spot; it is probable that dissecting aneurisms arise in places thus affected; if, on the other hand, the granula- tions harden into new tissue, the artery at that spot is strengthened, but with loss of elasticity. The semi-cartilaginous thickening, while it remains hard and dense, also strengthens that particular point of the artery, but likewise with loss of elasticity. "When the new material softens, that part of the vessel is weakened and apt for dilatation. Since the middle coat around these spots of thickening is generally more or less in a state of fatty degeneration, and since the parts, altered as above described, are inelastic, it follows that unusual strain falls upon the portions which have not become hard and rigid; moreover, the roughening of the interior of the artery, obstructing the blood-current, increases the pressure on those parts of the vascular walls which are not the seat of the thickening. Calcification hardens and protects the vessel against dilatation at the con- verted spot, but its rigidity increases the strain on such parts of the walls as are still dilatable. If either or all of these forms of thickening and encroach- ment on the arterial walls occur near the heart, as in the first part of the aorta, such an impediment to the course of the circulation is produced that hypertrophy of the left ventricle usually follows, thus increasing the ten- dency to aneurism by adding force to the blood-current.