INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 48 because the volume of blood in circulation is rapidly diminishing, and at the same time the heart’s action is growing weaker. The height and force of the jets are also greatly modified by the size, shape, and directness or indirectness of the aperture in the integuments and other parts external to the injured vessel. Thus, other things being equal, the jets are more strongly marked when the artery has been opened directly, and with free incision—by a sabre- cut, for instance—than when it has been indirectly pierced by a stab with a narrow-bladed knife. Again, the jets vary in accordance with the magnitude of the injured vessel itself, and the extent to which it has been laid open. So obviously true is this part of the description, that no illustrative example is needed. (2) Venous Hemorrhage.—In venous hemorrhage, the blood has a dark-red or maroon color, and usually is found flowing in a dull, steady stream. But in veins which lie close to large arteries, the pulsatory movements of these ves- sels may be communicated to the contents of the veins, and thus when these veins are wounded, a throbbing motion may be discernible in the stream, which, however, can, with a little care, be readily distinguished from the “per saltum” of arterial hemorrhage. Again, in certain forms of cardiac disease, where the tricuspid valve does not completely close, the regurgitation conse- quent thereon may be attended by a peculiar pulsation in the jugular and other veins near the chest, synchronous with pulsation in the arteries; but this condition is easily recognized when attention is called to it. Further- more, in gunshot fractures of the skull with lacerations of the dura mater, where the shot and trephine holes, and removal of the detached fragments of bone, had opened the cranial cavity extensively, I have several times seen the respiratory movements produce a notable rise and fall of blood in the cerebral veins and sinuses, synchronously with the respiratory movements themselves, the blood rising with the expiratory and falling with the inspi- ratory movement; and blood when settled into the bottom of these wounds, from venous and capillary oozings, was also observed to trickle away in cor- respondingly intermittent streams. But the suction-power which the chest exerts, through the movements of respiration, upon the great veins that enter it, acts much more strongly still on the contents of the contiguous veins, for example, the veins of the cervical, clavicular, and axillary regions; and hence venous hemorrhage in these regions may be attended with strong wave-like motions in the stream that correspond to the breathing. Hence, in these regions also, venous hemorrhages may be attended by the entrance of air into the wounded veins, it being, as it were, sucked into the open mouths of these veins by the inspiratory movements. Venous hemorrhages, in general, are easily recognized, and give but little trouble. Occasionally, however, they spring from great vessels—for instance, the internal jugular, the axillary, the subclavian, the innominate, the azygos, the cavse, the iliacs, and the common femoral vein—and then they may quickly destroy life. Examples *of this will be adduced in the section on Wounds of Veins. Varicose veins of the leg, thigh, rectum, etc., bleed when they burst, with a double force; for, being unprotected by valves, they possess a reflux or regurgitated current of blood, as well as a direct one, towards the aperture. Hemorrhages from the almost valveless veins of the head and neck may be greatly increased by the struggles and cries of patients, especially when restraint is employed and the posture is recumbent. Superficial lacerations of the liver bleed inordinately, because the hepatic veins, being not contractile and not surrounded with loose tissue, cannot close nor even collapse when divided, and their mouths are held open by the sur- rounding structures.