INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 154 in efforts for reducing dislocated shoulders; and, inasmuch as death may speedily follow the rupture from sub-tegumentary hemorrhage, as well as remotely from bursting of the aneurismal pouch, and external hemorrhage, the first indication in the treatment of these cases is plainly to restrain the flow of blood in the torn vessel by compressing digitally the subclavian artery against the first rib, as soon as the axillary swelling begins to appear, and by continuing the compression until the place of rupture can be exposed to view by incisions, and till the artery itself can be secured with catgut ligatures above and below the point at which it has given way. This accident is also liable to be followed by gangrene. For example, Pro- fessor Gibson has reported the following case:— A man, aged 35, with a dislocation of the left humerus of nine or ten weeks’ stand- ing, for which four attempts at reduction had been made, was the patient. Severe operative measures were employed, and, after an hour and three-quarters, the bone snapped into the glenoid cavity. At 8 o’clock next morning, an axillary swelling with characteristic pulsation was observed. The swelling increased, and at 3 P. M. next day, fifty-four hours after the reduction, the subclavian artery was tied, and the tumor •ceased to pulsate. The limb, however, became gangrenous, and, on the sixth day after the operation, the man died.1 The inner and middle coats of the artery were found torn across and separated for half an inch, and the external coat was dilated into an aneurismal sac, dating probably from the luxation itself, or from the previous attempts nt reduction ; during the last attempt the sac was torn open from behind, and an enor^ mous effusion of blood entered the joint through the torn capsule. The rim of the glenoid cavity was fractured anteriorly. In the British Medical Journal, May 18,1872, is recorded the case of a man, aged 38, who dislocated his humerus and had it reduced. He was then ad- mitted into the Northampton Infirmary. Gangrene of the arm ensued, and the man died. Fracture of the coracoid process, chipping of the head of the humerus, and rupture of the axillary artery, were found. Flaubert has reported the following case which occurred in the practice of M. Leudet:— A sailor, aged 57, was admitted to the hospital at Rouen, with a dislocation of the .arm forward, of eleven days’ standing. Extension was made by eight intelligent pupils, and, on the second attempt, the reduction was effected. - But, just before relax- ing the extension, the patient became pallid, his radial pulse ceased to beat, and an enormous swelling rose up under the great pectoral muscle. There was intense pain with pulsation in the tumor, and the whole arm became cold and livid. Gangrene little by little took possession of the limb. On the fourteenth day the aneurism burst in two places, and, an hour afterward, the patient died. The axillary artery was found torn completely across a little above the origin of the scapular. The pectoralis major and the coracoid portion of the biceps muscles were also extensively lacerated. The rim of the glenoid cavity, too, was broken.2 This accident is sometimes attended by death from exhaustion. For ex- ample, Mr. He Morgan, in a clinical lecture,3 relates the case of a man, aged 54, who came under his care a fortnight after the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder, under chloroform, with the heel in the axilla. Extravasa- tion of blood into the axilla occurred, and increased. The man’s strength failed, and he got rigors. Mr. He Morgan laid open the swelling, turned out the clots, etc.; but the man continued to sink. At the necroscopy it was impossible to detect the source of the bleeding. Anaemic exhaustion arising from loss of blood in the form of a concealed hemorrhage, however, is one of the most important causes of the deaths which result from this lesion. 1 Am. Journ. of the Medical Sciences, pp. 136-141. 2 Malgaigne, op. cit,, t. ii. p. 153. 3 British Medical Journal, January 6, 1872.