31 LYMPHANGEITIS. cases of lymphangeitis, illustrating the difference between two forms off septic inoculation from dissection wounds. The first is from his own per- sonal experience, and accurately describes what many of us have suffered. In December, 1871, I pricked my finger one day while dissecting, but took no notice of the puncture at the time $ in the night following the accident I awoke with violent pain and throbbing in the finger and up the arm. I tossed about till daybreak, when I saw two thin, red streaks on my arm, running from the finger to the elbow. The pain was extreme, thirst excessive. Temp. 102°. A tender, enlarged gland could j be felt just above the inner condyle. During the day the pain and red line extended up to the axilla; there a second tender and swollen gland made its appearance. The symptoms deepened in severity for the next twenty-four hours, when fluctuation could be detected in the axillary gland. An incision evacuated half an ounce of pus, and somewhat relieved the pain, which, however, still continued severe. I had two or three rigors during the day, and vomited several times. On the third day I was decidedly easier, the red lines were fading, and both lymphatic-vessel and gland tenderness markedly subsided. The fourth day I was convalescent. The second case was as follows :— W. S., aged 44, pricked his thumb while dissecting a tiger for the museum, and two days afterwards began to suffer pain at the seat of injury. On the fourth day he called to see me, when I found a small quantity of thin fluid discharging at the root of the thumb nail. The lymphatics were perceptibly affected, skin cold, tongue dry, pulse 100, but, perhaps, the most intolerable symptom was the intense mental depression I freely incised the thumb and sent him home to bed ; this was on August 22, 1875. From this time | his general condition grew worse until the 26th, when an ill-defined, or rather an undefined, abscess appeared in the cellular tissue of the arm. On this being opened, several ounces of pus were discharged, which lay loosely in the tissues, unconfined by any limiting membrane. Each day fresh abscesses of the same diffluent character appeared on the chest, abdomen, legs, and feet. He was very restless, and passed gradually from a condition of prostration into 6ne of muttering delirium, which ended in death on Sep- tember 11, twenty-four days after the reception of the poison. To these cases might be added that of a London physician who died four days after the reception of a prick from a needle, in sewing up the abdomen after a post-mortem examination. In the case of a colleague, without any ex- ternal wound, subpectoral suppuration occurred within a day of feeling un- well, diffuse suppuration in the axilla and lateral pectoral region ensued, with some pleurisy, and intense depression. He recovered, after free incisions, drain- age, and removal to fresli country air, with the singular complication of par- tial paralysis of the serratus magnus muscle, owing to the implication of the nerve of Bell in the inflammatory process. Recovery was, liowever, complete, I and the muscle resumed its normal functions. The above quoted cases illustrate the fact that the development of symptoms in septic lymphangeitis is often slow, possibly owing to the slow nature I of the lymphatic circulation, as may be instanced in syphilis, in some cases, where weeks may elapse between the appearance of the primary lesion and that of general symptoms; on the other hand, the writer has seen cases of syphilis where severe secondary symptoms occurred within one week of con- nection. According to some, the so-called gonorrhoeal rheumatism is a septic lymphangeitis accompanying gonorrhoea (or subsequent to it), having, in strumous subjects, an undoubted tendency to suppuration. Uterine Lymphangeitis.—Injury to the mucous lining of the uterus, gen- I erally puerperal, will originate a lymphangeitis of great severity, rapidly ex- tending to the pelvic cellular tissue ; although the septic material is as fre- quently introduced during labor, either by the infected fingers of an attendant, or by the atmosphere in which labor takes place. Recognizing the peritoneum