504 ANEURISM. found that by pressing from above on the sixth, or from below on the fifth, transverse process, hemorrhage was arrested. He could even seize the bleed- ing point with long forceps, but it was impossible to tie any vessel, “ as the ligature had nothing to grip.” He therefore introduced a pad, the size of a pea, steeped in perchloride of iron, upon the bleeding spot and well between the transverse processes. Most fortunately this device succeeded, and the patient recovered without further trouble. The case is thus shortly related to show what difficulties the surgeon who should attack such a case by the old (AntyIlian) operation might have to encounter, for the aneurism is partly situate between the bones, and nothing would be found that could be tied.1 A firm plug of lint, as in the above case, might prove successful, hut the inference to be drawn is rather to avoid operation, unless it he actually forced upon the surgeon. The device proposed by Gherini to lay bare the transverse processes above and below, sufficiently to permit the passage of an armed needle inside the course of the vessel, over and below its wound, is fraught with difficulty and some uncertainty, but in case the plug did not fulfil its object, the method might be tried in spite of the danger of wounding a nerve trunk as it passed from the spine. Were all these methods to prove ineffectual, a last resource, one almost of despair, would be to tie the vertebral both below the sixth and below the first vertebra.2 Aneurisms at the Root of the Heck. In tracing the carotid vessel lower down, we come to the root of the neck, a region in which several forms of aneurismal tumor may show themselves. It appears to me, therefore, advisable to class all these aneurisms together under one general title, as thereby we shall avoid unnecessary repetition or wearisome reference. Under this head are included low carotid, subclavian, and innominate aneurisms, as also those aortic aneurisms which, springing from the first or second part of the arch, make their appearance above the sternum or clavicles, and always affect the upper two or three intercostal spaces of the chest. By this arrangement it is not intended to lump or con- fuse together these different forms of disease, but rather by comparing them to draw distinctions, more closely contrasted. We have, then, many forms of the disease to study here: two involving the subclavian (1st and 3d parts); one, the lower part of the carotid; two, the innominate (high and low); and several forms of aortic aneurism,3 all liable to make their appearance within a very limited space. Aneurism of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery.—This fre- quently manifests itself by very severe, neuralgia-like pains, running from above the collar bone down the arm, and to the back of the shoulder, before any distinct swelling is noticed; indeed, I have seen two cases in which such distressing pains, lasting for two months, had almost worn out the patient before aneurism was detected.4 When enlargement becomes perceptible, it 1 An authority on aneurism, writing in the Lancet, proposes this operation in vertebral aneu- rism ; but as is seen from the result of treatment when the disease is about the tarsus (p.453), the method is hardly applicable when the sac and its vessel are inclosed in bones. 2 In the dead subject it is quite possible to tie the vessel as it makes its turn between the axis and the atlas. 3 I shall presently have occasion to point out the essential differences between aneurism of the ascending aorta and of the proximal and distal portions of the transverse aorta. 4 Nevertheless, this symptom is by no means conclusive. In 1878, a gentleman avoided a fall at a fence by hanging forcibly to a hurdle stake ; pains, such as described in the text, super-