SPONTANEOUS CURE OF ANEURISM. 407 From this time the tumor gradually increased. When I saw him (says Hodgson), twenty years after the commencement of the disease, it had grown to an immense size, but did not possess any of the characters of aneurism. It had a firm, fleshy feel, and was void of pulsation, while no fluctuation could be detected in it. It continued to increase for two years, when the apex sloughed, and a quantity of brown sordes was discharged, mixed with clot, which had very much the appearance of lamellated coagulum in a putrid condition ; no hemorrhage took place. A large cavity was thus exposed, the surface of which assumed a sloughy aspect, and the patient died in consequence of the fever and irritation with which it was accompanied. Upon dissection, the sides of the tumor, consisting of a firm, fleshy substance, were found to be in a sloughy condition ; but no large vessel communicated with the cavity. The femoral artery, before it penetrated the tendon of the triceps, was obliterated for the space of three inches.1 The body of the sac was reflected upwards upon the obliterated portion of the artery, which must have been compressed between the sac and the femur. This narrative, highly characteristic in its first symptoms, and in the per- sistency of limb enlargement, differs from the type of such events in one par- ticular only. If, after rupture, the patient does not succumb, but remains well for six months, and, a fortiori, for a year or more, he may, as a rule, be consid- ered fairly safe from the consecutive gangrene which attacked this man after so many years. In all cases of recovery after such symptoms, the patient is, for about the period above specified, that is, from six months to a year, in constant danger, not as much from hemorrhage as from inflammatory destruction of the infiltrated tissues. As long, therefore, as measurement of the one limb against the other shows a large difference, so long does this danger exist. The vessel upon which the aneurism is seated usually becomes sealed; if when the tissues slough or suppurate, hemorrhage occur, it will be from other collateral branches, some of which open into the cavity, and, often thin and dilated, yield to the sphacelation. Cure by Inflammation of the Sac, etc.—If the mode of spontaneous cure, just described, be most dangerous, indeed merely a narrow escape from death, so also, must we avow, are those now about to be specified, namely, inflamma- tory changes of the sac and its contents. It is to be observed that inflamma- tion may be superinduced upon any of the processes, natural or artificial, which produce passive clotting of the blood ; indeed, such a form of clot is apt to act as a foreign body and set up inflammation. And it is a little remark- able that inflammation of the sac and its surroundings tends to the formation of passive clot. It is difficult to account for this circumstance; we must be content with recording the fact. Inflammation of the sac and neighboring parts is stated by Crisp and Hodgson to be capable of curing aneurism simply by producing clotting of the blood, and I believe that this may sometimes occur. The inflammation may arise from traumatism, as from a blow, strain, or over-exertion, etc., or may be produced simply by the pressure of the tumor. As long as the sac lies amid loose and insensitive areolar tissue, such irritation cannot take place, but when it comes to press on more sensitive parts, more especially on the skin, inflammatory conditions are by no means uncommon. If resolution result, no effect will probably have been produced on the aneurism, or if any hardening and diminution of pulsation have occurred, such signs of amelioration may be merely temporary, the loose clot with which the sac has been in part filled being so soft that it easily breaks down and 1 This is ambiguous. I presume Hodgson does not, hy triceps, mean the adductor magnus ; probably the canal, Hunter’s, between the vastus internus and the long adductor, is intended ; if so, the superficial femoral would have been obliterated up to its junction with the deep (pro- funda) branch.