PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 133 Injury of the intercostal artery may be predicated in lesions that involve its track, when the wounded person does not spit blood while the symptoms of hemorrhage, internal as well as external, are urgent. If the wound be large, bright-red, but not frothy blood may be seen issuing therefrom ; if the wound he probed with a finger, the blood may be felt issuing in jets from the aperture in the artery. When this vessel is lacerated without there being an external wound, and blood flows into the pleural sac, as happened in two instances mentioned above, the symptoms are those of rapidly occur- ring hsemothorax. Injury of this artery near its origin is always attended with dangerous bleeding. In shot fractures of the ribs it is always of very serious import, from risk of intermediary and secondary, as well as of primary hemorrhage. Of the fifteen cases reported in the “ Surgical History of the "War,” six had primary, five intermediary, and four secondary hemorrhage. When the intercostal arteries are punctured by stabs, it may be necessary to enlarge the external wound in order to get at and secure the injured vessel with a ligature placed on each side of the puncture. Generally, when the intercostal arteries are opened by external wounds, the hemorrhage should, if possible, be stanched by tying them on this plan; and the efforts of the sur- geon should first be directed to the accomplishment of this purpose, mean- while suppressing the bleeding by applying a finger to the aperture in the vessel whence the blood issues, on the inside of the wound, until the prepara- tions for applying ligatures can be made. Then, still restraining the bleeding with his finger in the wound, the surgeon should extend the wound poste- riorly with a scalpel held in the other hand until he lays bare the artery be- tween the two planes of intercostal muscles, and passes round it a ligature of carholized silk or catgut, on tightening which the hemorrhage from the car- diac side of the wound will be effectually suppressed; the application of a distal ligature completes the operation. When the wound is fresh and the parts sound, no very great difficulty is usually experienced in finding and tying the intercostal artery in the wound itself. Sometimes, however, when the wound is no longer fresh and the parts are not sound, as, for instance, in secondary hemorrhages, it may be advisable to follow the old method of Gerard, and include the rib, nerve, and vein in the ligature as well as the artery ; it will be still more advisable to do so if the patient has already lost much blood. Restraining, then, at once the bleeding by inserting a finger into the wound so as to compress the open mouth of the artery (an assistant may do it if required), the surgeon should prolong the wound posteriorly in the course of the artery, that is, toward its origin, and taking the blunt-pointed, strongly-curved needle belonging to a chain-saw, or one of the many instruments which have been specially devised for this ope- ration, suitably armed with a ligature of carholized silk, catgut, or silver wire, he should dip the point of the needle under the lower edge of the rib beneath the artery, and following closely the inner surface of the rib with the blunt point of the instrument, external to the pleura, he should, by depress- ing the handle or eye of the instrument, make the point appear, covered by the integuments, at the upper margin of the rib. The point should now be uncovered by a small incision, and protruded through it until the ligature can be seized hold of and placed; then the needle should be withdrawn. The ends of the ligature may be disposed of by tying them firmly over a roll of adhesive plaster; or they may be passed through the corresponding holes in a bone or a rubber button of suitable size, and then be firmly drawn and knotted. Another plan of dealing with the ligature is to pass the end which was removed from the eye of the blunt-pointed, strongly-curved needle into the eye of an ordinary good-sized needle and re-insert it through the punc- ture of the integuments at the upper margin of the rib, carry it between the