50 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. of it will be presented in the section on Parenchymatous Hemorrhage. In operations performed by the bloodless method of Esmarch, tardiness of con- traction on the part of the wounded capillaries may subsequently be attended with the loss of much blood. Capillary hemorrhages in granulating wounds may be produced by excesses in drinking, and by indulgence in venery; I have seen examples of both accidents. Capillary hemorrhages in granulating wounds too, are often caused by the formation of thrombi in the veins which should carry the blood away from these wounds; cases illustrating this point will also be adduced in the section on Parenchymatous Hemorrhage. The chief factors concerned in producing the bleeding from capillaries which require surgical treatment, are: 1. Excessive blood-pressure in the arteries, whereby the capillaries themselves are burst open and the blood is forced out through minute rents in their walls: e.y., the nasal hemorrhages often met with in Bright’s disease, the hemorrhages from granulating surfaces which result from indulgence in venery and from excessive drinking, etc.; 2. Inability on the part of the capillaries themselves, when severed, to con- tract, and thus close their open mouths, in consequence of paralysis, more or less complete, of their walls; and 3. Obstruction to the onward flow of blood, which is not unfrequently caused by occlusion (plugging) with coagula or thrombi of the veins that should conduct the blood away from wounds and granulating surfaces: e.g., parenchymatous hemorrhage occurring in pyaemia and other debilitating diseases which produce thrombosis. But all the traumatic hemorrhages, those that are internal as well as those that are external, and those proceeding from wounded veins and capillaries as well as those proceeding from wounded arteries, are naturally separable into four distinct groups or classes, each of which, in practice, has great im- portance, viz.: (1). Primary; (2). Intermediary; (3). Secondary; and (4). Parenchymatous hemorrhage. How, this classification of the traumatic hemor- rhages, while quite unarbitrary, is still very useful for purposes of study and description; and this circumstance should commend it to general favor and acceptance. (1) By primary hemorrhage is meant the effusion of blood which usually attends immediately upon the wounding of bloodvessels, that is, the hemorrhage which takes place at the moment the wound is inflicted. Its phenomena vary considerably according to whether it proceeds from veins, from arteries, or from capillaries; and when it proceeds from a wounded artery, the phenomena vary with the extent of the aperture in its walls, that is, accord- ing to whether the vessel is completely or only partially divided; they also vary with the nature of the wound of the artery itself, that is, according to whether it has been inflicted by a sharp, cutting instrument which would make an incised wound; or by a sharp-pointed instrument, like a narrow dag- ger, or a bayonet, which would cause a punctured wound; or whether the vessel has been torn across by stretching, so as to sustain a lacerated wound, such as sometimes results from a limb being caught in machinery; or whether the coats of the vessel have been bruised, thereby sustaining a contused wound; or, finally, whether the artery has been opened by a gunshot missile, which usually makes a wound both contused and lacerated, a gunshot wound. Pri- mary hemorrhage is, therefore, a subject which must be considered in con- nection with the several kinds of injury, or wounds, to which the bloodvessels are exposed; and, in our description of these wounds, severally, a full dis- cussion of this subject will be presented. (2) By intermediary hemorrhage is meant an effusion of blood from wounded