423 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. mon or external iliac arteries, as also to the abdominal aorta. It may be car- ried out according to either the gradual or the rapid method. The former of these consists in the application of some instrument, generally some ingenious modification of the tourniquet, according to the vessel to be compressed and the shape of the parts, with sufficient force to greatly diminish, but not altogether to suppress, the blood-current through the tumor. Generally it is advisable to inclose the limb below the point of pressure, or, at least, below the tumor, in some soft form of bandage—Domett or fine flannel—applied either in the form of a roller, or cut into proper lengths as a many-tailed bandage. Since the treatment is not intended to effect any sudden, or indeed any very rapid changes, and since no point of the skin can bear continuous pressure for more than a short period, two places for its application are chosen, two instruments or a double-armed instrument being used, so that the localities of compression can be alternated. Many surgeons prefer, instead of the second tourniquet, certain forms of weight. Three details of management are, above all others, those that most conduce to success: (1) Regulation of the pressure, so that a continuous, slight stream may go on through the sac ; (2) Avoidance (in some parts) of pressure on the main vein; (3) Great attention to preserve and keep in good condition the skin at the points of pressure. Few conditions in surgery vary so much and so unaccountably, in different cases, as the tolerance of patients for the irksomeness of confinement to bed and the retention of one attitude. FTor must it be taken for granted that all the ordinances of the surgeon are to the letter carried out, or that all displacements of the instrument are entirely accidental. In every case, even when the patient has the b.est intentions, great vigilance must he exercised; for often uncontrolla- ble restlessness, severe pain, or the exhaustion of sleeplessness, breaks down his powers of endurance. Hence, it is well to have two reliable nurses, intelligent enough to manage the instruments, who shall never leave the patient alone; better still, to have two or three steady and careful assistants, one of whom can be always on the spot, to direct the treatment.1 The ad- ministration of anodynes and narcotics is often necessary. Chloral hydrate, bromide of potassium, and morphia, are all valuable. Aconite is especially lauded by some surgeons as lowering the action of the heart, while it also soothes nervous irritation. Belladonna, or rather atropine, is very valuable when it is tolerated. In spite of all these adjuvants, the patient’s courage not unfrequently gives way, the chief causes of failure being pain, culminating in agony, irritability, and exhaustion. Digital pressure is frequently preferable to instrumental pressure for brachial, femoral, popliteal, and especially for high carotid aneurisms; it is to many patients less wearing, and is less likely to produce inflammation at the part compressed. The treatment is, however, attended by many difficulties, espe- cially if it is to be carried out away from a large town, in which a medical school may provide a sufficient staff of trained, reliable, and patient assistants. Three at least of such should always be with the patient, and these should be relieved by a fresh relay every three, or, at most, four hours. Two should be occupied simultaneously about the patient, one to keep his hand on the aneu- rism, and, by observing constantly the amount and mode of its pulsation, to direct another who compresses the artery. Lest he who is exercising com- pression should become fatigued too rapidly, a weight, either a shot bag or a moulded piece of lead, enveloped in wash leather, should be provided, which, being suspended by a cord over the bed, and laid upon his fingers, supplements and economizes muscular force. Even Avith this aid, the hand becomes, in the course of a few minutes, too tired and numb to efficiently compress the More fall descriptions are given in connection with the treatment of popliteal aneurism.