532 ANEURISM. Aneurismal Varix.—The former of these maladies, nearly always trau- matic, may probably best be described by taking as our type the formerly common arterio-venous puncture in venesection. “ When this happens,” says W. Hunter,1 the first who correctly described this condition, “ the injury done to the artery is commonly known by the jerking impetuosity of the stream which flows from the vein, and by the difficulty of stopping it when a suffi- cient quantity has been drawnalso, if what I saw long ago in a single case be usual, by the appearance of two colors in the blood. When, however, the hemorrhage has been checked by pressure, and the wound has healed, the op- posed openings adhere to each other, and the vessels intercommunicate. The disease is then marked by dilatation of the punctured vein and its affluents, for two inches or rather less, above, and for rather more than that distance below, the cicatrix left by the puncture. The enlargement is well marked; its limits are somewhat abrupt; it pulsates rather less forcibly than an artery dilated to an equal size would do; and added to this, there is a continuous, vibratile thrill, best felt when the finger touches the part but very lightly. To an ear applied gently on the tumor, this thrill is translated into a rasping or snarling sound, which William Hunter2 compares to “ what is produced in the mouth by continuing the sound of the letter R in a whisper.” I would call it “ thrill-murmur.” This vibration is, if the hole of communi- cation be large, apparent even to sight; especially at a point opposite the arterial opening. The venous tumor can be readily emptied by pressure, but immediately fills again, not by afflux of blood from the veins below, but from the artery above, as may be proved by tying a fillet tightly round the arm just under the seat of disease. When the limb is raised vertically, the tumor diminishes, and if, while that posture is maintained, pressure be made on the artery above, all thrill and bruit cease, while the swelling almost entirely disappears. In some cases the point of the finger, by following as a. clue the line of most marked vibration, may be made to impinge directly on the arterial opening, when vibration is checked, and the enlargement almost entirely subsides. Occasionally the artery above is dilated and convoluted, pulsating, more largely and strongly than natural, while nevertheless the artery below, and the radial pulse on that side, are smaller than on the other. The veins, for a little way above, and throughout the limb below, are enlarged, tortuous, and varicose, and for a certain distance may be seen, or by a very light touch may be felt, to pulsate very distinctly. Also, in most cases, the integuments of the forearm and their appendices, hair and nails, are hypertrophied, and some- times the part, especially in the course of the veins, is peculiarly hirsute. Varicose Aneurism.—Varicose aneurism differs from the above-described condition by the interposition of a blood-containing cavity between the arte- rial and venous wound; the intercommunication of the vessels is, therefore, less direct, and hence a certain difference exists in the relative intensity of some of the symptoms above described, according to the indirectness of the obstruction, and the mode in which the two opposing streams meet within the aneurismal pouch. The veins, varicpse both above and below, are not, as a rule, as largely distended immediately opposite the puncture, nor do they pulsate as distinctly and clearly, as in the other form of the disease. The aneurismal tumor is easily distinguishable; it pulsates and makes a peculiar noise, more or less loud and harsh according to the size, shape, and relative position of the openings. It is sometimes hissing or rasping, sometimes, like the murmur of a spiral shell, the boiling of a kettle, or, as in a case which I Med. Observations and Inquiries, 1761, p. 34. 2 Op. cit., p. 37.