PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. 569 Herpes zoster forms a separate class in the eruptions of this kind. While the glossy skin appears to be peculiar to traumatisms of nerves, herpes zoster appears here with the characters which are habitual to it, either in spinal affections or in cases of spontaneous neuritis. There are isolated groups of vesicles, which appear upon red patches separated by intervals of healthy skin, and which are distributed along the course of the injured nerve. It is useless to dwell upon the evolution of these vesicles, which terminate by de- siccation, as in non-traumatic herpes zoster, but which may also, although rarely, he complicated with ulceration or limited gangrene. Professor Ver- neuil has distinguished three varieties of traumatic herpes: (1) herpes which appears along the course of the nerve, below the wound ; (2) herpes of prox- imity, which occurs in the neighborhood of the wounded nerve; (3) remote herpes, which occurs far from the seat of the injury, as the result of a kind of reflex irritation. I have said that the bullous and pemphigoid eruptions frequently terminate in obstinate ulcerations. These ulcerations may occur even without a pre- ceding eruption. To this category it has been proposed to refer the affection known as “ perforating ulcer of the foot.” While it is true that frequently the occurrence of a perforating ulcer is singularly favored by the previous existence of trophic disturbances of nervous origin, this affection is not met with unless a local compression intervenes, as has been demonstrated in the theses of two of my pupils, Soulages1 and Butruille.2 It is not the same with the ulcerations which may appear on the surface of the toes in conse- quence of sections of the sciatic nerve or of its branches; in these cases the intervention of compression is not necessary, just as in the ulcerations of the extremities of the fingers which result from section of the median nerve. To these lesions which affect the derm, are joined various alterations of the epiderm, or of its appendages, the hair and the nails. Its thickening, its yellowish or brownish discoloration, and its desquamation in small dry scales, which are slow to separate, are the modifications of the epiderm pointed out by Weir Mitchell and by Couyba. The hairs come out in the regions where the glossy skin occurs, though at times they are found increased in number and lengthened in cases of painful irritation. As to the lesions of the nails, it is again to Weir Mitchell that we are indebted for their best description. The nails may become thick and club-shaped, or, on the other hand, may undergo atrophy, becoming dry, scaly, and brittle. At other times they are curved like turtle-shells, blackened, and, as it were, elevated by the hypertrophy of the subjacent tissues; the matrix is separated from the nail and becomes ulcerated. Sometimes the nails present an antero-posterior incurvation; sometimes they are rolled up transversely, and then become very painful; finally they may be completely shed, and then grow again unevenly. [By the great courtesy of Dr. Weir Mitchell, the editor is permitted to have reproduced here the accompanying illustration (Plate XVII.) of the trophic changes in the skin and nails following nerve injuries. Dr. Mitchell’s original paper will be found in the Transactions of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, 3d series, vol. ii., p. 115.] In connection with these nutritive disturbances of the skin, must be men- ' tioned the modifications of secretion and temperature which have in some cases been observed. According to Weir Mitchell, the secretion of sioeat may be abolished after complete section of a nerve; it is increased in incomplete sections with irritation.3 In other cases the sweat has a very marked acid smell, especially in cases of causalgia. 1 Thfese, Paris, 1875. 2 These, Paris, 1878. 3 Often, in trophic disturbances of the foot, of nervous origin, I have observed the sudden pro- fuse sweatings which appear at the moment that the foot is examined.