574 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. And it is thus, no doubt, that must be explained the frequency with which perforating ulcers are developed in consequence of injuries of the sciatic nerve in man. Still, it is far from being the ease that the external injury, in connection with the vaso-motor paralysis, is sufficient to account for all the inflammatory disturbances consecutive to nerve lesions. Without speaking of the erup- tions and glossy skin, the joint inflammations do not seem to be explicable in this way.1 There is here very probably a direct action exercised by the nervous system. But it must be confessed that the nature of this action is unknown. Is there a diminution of the trophic influence of the nerve centres, as admitted by Yulpian? Is there a perversion in the way of exag- geration of this nutritive influence, as maintained by Brown-Sequard ? The question remains unsettled. II. Disturbances from Central Irritation.—Thus far we have studied the morbid disturbances which are produced in the peripheral domain of the injured or divided nerve. But it is not only in the periphery that the in- fluence of the nerve lesion is felt. Although more rare, the alterations of the central end and the consequences which they may have upon the cerebro- spinal axis itself are none the less indisputable. Here again physiology fur- nishes an important contribution to the question, and the results obtained by experiment may serve as a foundation for the description of clinical facts. It is to Tiesler, Feinberg, Klemm, Hiedieck, and Hayem, that the most conclusive experiments are due. These authors have shown that an injury, and especially an irritation, of the peripheral part of a nerve, determines in it changes which in a great number of cases are propagated even to the spinal cord. The contradictory experiments of Roessingh, of Rosenbach, and of Yulpian, show that this propagation is far from being constant; but they do not impair the value of the positive results established by the first-named investigators. The ascending neuritis which follows the irritation of a nerve trunk is a disseminated neuritis (Klemm); it invades the tissue of the nerve in an irre- gular manner, and is particularly observable at the points where the arterial vessels penetrate the sheaths of the nerve trunks. This neuritis is above all interstitial. But Hayem, in his experiments, has also noted a parenchymatous neuritis; he has seen the axis-cylinders swollen, moniliform, and in a state of granular degeneration, with proliferation of the cells of the interannular segment. “ The path of transmission of the irritation from the nerve to the spinal cord,” he says, “ is twofold: it is effected by the interstitial tissue, and also by the axis-cylinders, which are found swollen and moniliform in the central end of the nerve.” The consequences of this irritation of the spinal cord have been either lesions of the membranes—pachymeningitis and meningitis—or lesions of the medul- lary substance itself. Meningitis is nearly constant; myelitis is more rare; it occurs like neuritis in disseminated foci, and may ascend very high, even to the medulla oblongata. With the microscope are found all the lesions of myelitis, softening of the cord, disorganization of the gray substance, de- struction of the large cells of the anterior cornua, swelling and disintegration of the axis-cylinders, and multiplication of the elements of the neuroglia. These experimental facts, upon which I do not intend to enlarge, and which it suffices to have mentioned, permit us to understand and to explain certain symptoms, uncommon indeed, but which occasionally follow injuries 1 The pressure of the cartilages one against the other might, however, be given as an ex- planation.