INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 726 III. Lacerated Wounds of Joints. The principles of treatment in these severe injuries are similar to those already laid down for the management of incised wounds, hut the hope of union without pus-formation is very slight, and the surgeon will generally have to combat the suppurative tendency from the outset. As far as these wounds belong to the class of compound dislocations, they have already been con- sidered in a previous portion of this article. The other causes of lacerated joint wounds are the violence of machinery, falls upon angular objects, and all the various accidents which may wrench the bones far enough from their proper relations to lacerate their surround- ing soft parts. The elbow is especially subject to lacerated wounds when bent suddenly backward. Thus a lady was overturned in her carriage while the horses were running away. As the side of the vehicle neared the ground, she put her hand through the open window against the pavement. The carriage, still rushing forward, brought the window frame against the back of the elbow, bending the forearm violently backward. The bones were not fractured, but the anterior ligaments gave way, with most of the soft parts on the anterior aspect of the articulation, laying the joint widely open. Under thorough antiseptic treatment the parts healed with no other disaster than anchylosis. Lacerated wounds will sometimes unite by first intention; hence in recent lacerations of joint capsules, and of their overlying tissues, the surgeon should consider whether he may not, by prompt antiseptic closure and adoption of the subsequent measures advised in speaking of incised wounds, preserve a useful articulation. If nothing prohibit the attempt it should be under- taken with the same care and minute attention to the perfection of antiseptic precautions, which have already been recommended in cases of incised wound. If the effort fail, and suppuration ensue, or if the purulent stage have already set in when the patient comes under the surgeon’s care, then the treatment must be by drainage tubes and injections, or, if caries have set in, amputation or resection may be required. IV. Gunshot Wounds of Joints. These injuries are generally both lacerated wounds and compound commi- nuted fractures, though in a few cases a bullet, cutting along the side of a joint, merely opens the capsule without shattering the bone. The army rifle- bullet is large, and when it passes directly through an articulation, it generally reduces a large part of the ends of the bones to a fine gravel, consisting of comminuted, osseous and cartilaginous material, besides splintering the re- moter portions of the articular, osseous extremities. The large quantity of bony gravel left in the joint places it in a very different situation from that of an ordinary compound fracture, and stamps as idiotic all efforts to treat cases attended with such comminution in a merely conservative manner, whether with or without antiseptics. The first thing, therefore, in a case of penetrating, gunshot fracture' of a joint, is to examine carefully, and determine whether the bone be comminuted or not. If the capsule be merely cut open, leaving the bone untouched, the treatment may be as in other cases of lacerated joint-wound. If the bone be broken, but not comminuted, the case may be treated as other compound fractures of joints, but if it be badly comminuted, the surgeon must generally choose between amputation and excision, or the