158 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. by means of a broad roller, been judiciously carried out from the beginning, it is not improbable that the issue of the case would have been favorable. The following example will serve to illustrate still further the symptoma- tology of this accident, and the errors of diagnosis which may attend it:— A woman, aged 66, sustained a dislocation of the shoulder, which, at first unrecog- nized, was reduced at the end of six weeks by a “ bone-setter,” who made extension by the elbow and wrist, with the aid of four strong men. The arm remained engorged, and two or three months after the accident the patient entered the Hotel-Dieu. Twelve days after admission, she received from another patient a blow on the elbow, which deter- mined the appearance of a tumor in the axilla, of the size of an almond; and a pupil, who examined her at this time, found the radial pulse already absent. Six or eight days later, the swelling having increased, Dupuytren mistook it for an abscess; he thrust a bistoury into it, saw a jet of arterial blood escape, and, on making a better examination detected an obscure thrill in the tumor. He proposed to ligate the sub- clavian, a bold idea for the period (1810), but Pelletan would not allow it to be exe- cuted. Valsalva’s plan of treatment was essayed ; an eschar formed on the tumor, a hemorrhage completed the patient’s exhaustion, and she died eight days after the punc- ture, and fourteen days after the appearance of the aneurismal tumor. On autopsy, the outer coat of the axillary artery was found dilated, through a space two inches long, to a diameter of one inch, where widest. This dilatation presented on its posterior, exter- nal aspect, an aperture which opened into the cavity of a very much larger swelling, equalling at least the size of a new-born infant’s head, and having cellular tissue only for its wall. Above the dilatation, the artery was dry and hard ; below, its canal was completely obliterated.1 It is probable that the employment of violent extension, in this case, was attended with rupture of the inner and middle coats of the axillary artery, and followed by dilatation of the outer coat into an aneurismal pouch ; that the blow on the elbow made a small rent in this pouch, and led to an effusion of blood into the connective tissue of the armpit, which Dupuytren punctured because he thought it to be an abscess. Exploration of the tumor with the grooved needle, or even a critical examination of the tumor by ordinary means, would have prevented this sad mistake. The sudden formation of a large swelling in the armpit, in consequence of a lesion of the axillary vessels resulting from a blow, or from a strain of the shoulder, or from violent extension of the arm, or from dislocation of the arm at the shoulder-joint, or from efforts to reduce this form of disloca- tion, is but seldom due to anything beside a rupture of the axillary artery. When such a swelling pulsates and presents the thrill and bruit of an aneurism, there is, of course, no difficulty whatever in determining its true character. But this is not often the case. Generally such swellings, have neither pulsation, nor thrill, nor bruit. When, however, pulsation ceases in the radial, ulnar, and brachial arteries, simultaneously with the injury and the appearance of the axillary swelling, it is indicated with sufficient clearness that the continuity of the axillary artery as a canal or tube has been destroyed by the accident, or that the lumen of the vessel has been filled up by the lesion. When pulsation continues in the arteries of the forearm and arm, notwithstanding the tumefaction in the axilla, we must bring to our aid, in order to determine the nature of the tumefaction, the situation and extent of the subcutaneous ecchymosis, the gravity of the general signs of hemorrhage, the shape of, and degree of tension in, the axillary swelling itself, and a recollection of the fact that there are but three or four cases of uncomplicated rupture of the axillary vein on record, and that it is an accident of extremely rare occurrence. Moreover, when such a swelling is * Pelletan, Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 83; Dupuytren, Lemons Orales, 2me ed. t. iii. p. 12.