INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 94 tween fine well-twisted silk, and fine metallic threads, for sutures in vesico- vaginal fistulfe.1 The advantages of carbolized silk are that it is antiseptic, strong and smooth, easily obtained, easily applied, and easily removed. Its disadvantages are that it is a foreign body, and that it finds its way through the arterial tissues by ulceration. Metallic Ligatures, by reason of their non-absorbent properties and their inability to become soaked with decomposing discharges, possess a special advantage. But they cannot always be applied with ease ; and for the pur- poses of general ligation they are certainly not well adapted. It remains, however, for future experience to determine what their true value is for ligating large arteries in their continuity, such as the iliacs, the femoral, brachial, etc. But it seems at present quite probable that, like other non- irritating ligatures of a permanent character, they will, for the most part, find their way out by ulceration, and therefore will be attended with the dangers peculiar to that process, just the same as ligatures of carbolized silk. Indeed, I have no doubt that, for general purposes, carbolized silken thread is preferable to every other kind of permanent ligature in use for tying arteries. Animal Ligatures, that is, the ligatures made of buckskin, deer sinew, catgut, kangaroo sinew, whale tendon, and ox aorta are, in their nature, not per- manent, and they possess, when properly prepared, a great superiority over all other ligatures whatever, inasmuch as they do not act as foreign bodies in the wounds where they are placed. They lie there harmless and unirritating, in contact with the tissues, and, becoming infiltrated with leucocytes, are, in due time, entirely removed by absorption ; new fibrous bands or rings, how- ever, taking their place. The tendency of some of these ligatures to soften prematurely, and of their knots to slip or become untied, whereby their hold upon the wounded vessel might be loosened before the proper time, was formerly an objection to their use in tying large arteries; but this objection is no longer valid, for the material can now be treated in such a manner as to make the knot entirely safe, and, at the same time, impart greater flexibility as well as strength to the thread itself. For the general purposes of ligation, I believe that carbolized catgut, prepared on Mr. Lister’s plan, described above, is superior to every other kind of ligature; and the soundness of this belief is attested by the experience of surgeons in every part of the globe, as well as by considerations which I have already adduced. In short, the catgut thus carbolized is a non-irritating ligature which seems to fulfil all the con- ditions of a perfect haemostatic, combining the security and universal appli- cability of the ligature, with absence of the bad effects of a foreign body in the wound. After the knot is tied, both ends of this ligature should be cut off, and the wound permanently closed. IV. Torsion. Twisting the cut ends of arteries was distinctly recognized by Galen as an important means for restraining the flow of blood therefrom. Aetius, Paulus MCgineta, and Rhazes also recognized torsion as a haemostatic measure of im- portance. Subsequently it became obsolete. In 1829, Amussat revived its use by proving from experiments on animals that it was a safe and efficient means of stanching hemorrhage from many wounded arteries. Soon after- ward Thierry followed to the same effect. Velpeau, however, first employed torsion on the human subject. In the same year Liber, Fricke, Dieffenbach, 1 New Syd. Soc. Year-Book, 1862, p. 181.