SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 433 external or internal iliac, it may be anatomically impossible to place a liga- ture at any considerable distance from the sac. Anel1 performed the sort of deligation which bears his name in 1710 for an aneurism at the bend of the elbow ; he says, “ I ligatured it (the artery) as near to the tumor as possible.” This operation, not being dictated or sup- ported on any scientific basis, attracted, though followed by brilliant results, little attention, nor does it seem to have been employed for any but small arteries2 up to 1785, when Desault tied for popliteal aneurism the artery of that name just above the sac. Doubtless the success of that case, and it must be remembered that the cure of aneurism was at that date exceptional,3 would have led to further attempts with Ariel's method of treatment, but that in December, 1785, a patient with popliteal aneurism fell under the care of John Hunter, who, in that same month, subjected him to the new operation which has since been termed the Hunterian method.4 Anel’s plan, indeed, seems never to have taken any place as a remedy for aneurism of large, vessels, and would probably have been forgotten but for the work of Paul Broca. How the inherent defects of ligaturing an artery close to an aneurismal sac are many. First, the vessel may at this spot be very deep; second, it is generally very considerably displaced; third, it is (save in recent, traumatic cases) nearly always diseased at the point tied; and fourth, the circulation in the sac is by this operation too completely cut off and suppressed. The first of these objections may be left for consideration on a subsequent page, as, indeed, may also, to a certain extent, the second: it need only be remarked here that, unless the aneurism be fusiform, the vessel immediately above may be so covered by the sac as to render deligation at that spot impossi- ble. A large popliteal aneurism, for instance, may so fill the whole popliteal space that no part of the artery is accessible between the tumor and the adductor magnus; and it has more than once happened that a proposed deli- gation of the subclavian has had to be abandoned, because the operator found the vessel so covered by the sac as to be out of reach. Even if this be not the case, displacement of the artery to one side, or into abnormal depths, not only renders the operation very difficult, but invests it with some little un- certainty. Since spontaneous aneurism, in the third place, usually arises in consequence of arterial disease, the reverse proposition also holds good, namely, that in the neighborhood of aneurisms arteries are likely to be diseased; and this probability is increased by the fact that the change in circulation—the altered condition of parts around—conduces to arterial inflammation. A ligature applied to a diseased artery causes very readily ulceration and destruction of its coats before adhesion and other changes in the interior of the vessel have sealed it and made it secure; hence, secondary hemorrhage is an imminent danger after tying such vessels, perhaps even now; but it was much more so when silk or other non-soluble ligatures were used. It has, fourthly, been frequently mentioned that the formation of a firm laminated clot depends upon the persistence of a gentle current through the aneurismal sac ; but a ligature applied immediately above that spot must 1 Suite de la nouvelle mdthode de guerir les fistules lacrymales. Turin, 1714. 2 Heister in his Institutiones Chirurgicse described Anel’s procedure, and recommended its ap- plication to “reducible aneurisms,” whence we may conclude that he, like Anel, considered “ that the blood contained in the sac would be dissipated, being allowed to pass on towards the extremity.” 3 I need hardly refer to the now well-known phrase of Pott (Chirurgical Works, vol. iii. p. 220), “ I have tried it [Antyllus’s operation] more than once or twice, and I have seen it tried, by others, but the event has always been fatal.” 4 Hunter had long been cogitating the matter, and had by experiments on animals convinced himself of the truth of the principles on which he founded his method. VOL. III.—28