591 TUMORS OF NERVES. tions of nitrate of silver or of sea-salt (Luton); electricity may be usefully employed. (3) To the two forms of medication aheady described there must be added that which has for its end the combating of pain. This variety of medication always plays an important part, and sometimes is employed alone when there are found neither morbid constitutional states nor local nerve-changes. There is generally too great a tendency to rely upon this form of treatment, while the others are more or less completely neglected. It renders good service, but the former only are truly curative. To relieve the pain of neuralgia, anodynes may be employed by hypodermic injection, as topical applications, and by internal administration. The hypo- dermic injections most often employed are those of muriate of morphia, from five milligrammes grain) upward; of chloroform (Bartholow, Besnier) in doses of from one to three grammes (15 to 45 minims); and of atropia, in doses of from one to two milligrammes (^ff to grain). The latter remedy is somewhat dangerous. Morphia has also been administered by the ender- mic method, by means of a small blister. Different topical remedies have been applied, some with opium for a basis, such as liniments containing laudanum; applications to the skin of chloroform and ether have also been employed, as have anodyne ointments, ointments of veratria and of morphia, etc. Finally, anodynes are administered internally: opium, lauda- num, chloral, aconitia, bromide of potassium. The sulphate of quinine is very efficacious in the secondary traumatic neuralgias (Verneuil). Inhalations of chloroform and ether are also employed; but they have frequently been the cause of accidents. Armaingaud has obtained successful results by the employment of revul- sives, blisters, the hot iron, etc., over the position of the painful spinous points. Huchard attacks these with the ether spray applied over the vertebral column. Finally, if all medication fails, surgical intervention becomes necessary. An energetic compression over the course of the painful nerve has sometimes been of service. But recourse has been especially had to section or resection ot the nerve, and to elongation, with or without crushing. These operations will be studied hereafter. In recent times the boldness of operators has extended to tearing out the branches of the trifacial, a heroic operation which might prove dangerous by irritating the ganglion of Gasser, or the central origins of the nerves. Tumors of Nerves. Odier, of Geneva, in 1803, described under the name of neuromata, all tumors developed in the course of the nerves, whatever was their structure. In 1822, Aronssohn, following Camper and Alexander, endeavored to divide them into two principal classes, according to whether the tumor grew from the medullary structure of the nerves, or from their interstices and from their neurilemma; but his attempt remained without effect, the more so that in 1825 appeared the work of Descot, who considered all neuromata as being of a cancerous nature, an opinion which was adopted by a great number of surgeons. In 1853, Houel, recording a case of multiple neuromata, admitted two principal varieties: fibrous tumors and fibro-plastic tumors; but Lebert, in the report he made in regard to Houel’s work, considered neuromata to be all formed by fibrous tumors. In Germany, Fuhrer and Virchow found that certain neuromata contained