INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 214 Not so, however, in wounds involving the internal jugular vein. The great freedom with which the blood can pass from one jugular to the other through the lateral sinuses, etc., and can he returned toward the heart in this way in case one of them is ligatured, makes it quite unnecessary to tie the common carotid artery in order to equalize the afflux and reflux of blood in the head, when the corresponding jugular vein is closed by ligation. For the same reason, the ligation of a common carotid artery will not restrain the flow of blood from a wounded fellow internal jugular vein; and, therefore, it must be rejected as a haemostatic measure in such cases. Entrance of Air into Veins.—The entrance of air into veins is a most dangerous accident. I can describe it most briefly and accurately by present- ing some examples. The first instance on record was observed in 1818 by M. Beauchesne, while removing a large tumor from the right shoulder. Ho accidentally opened the external jugular vein, just above its termination in the subclavian, during the extraction of a part of the clavicle; air entered the partly divided vein, and in a quarter of an hour the patient died. In 1822, a striking example of this mishap occurred to Dupuytren:— He was excising a tumor from the postero-lateral part of the neck of a healthy young woman, and, while an assistant raised it up, as he was severing its last attachments a prolonged blowing sound was heard in the wound. “ If I were not so far from the air- tubes,” said Dupuytren, “ I should think we had opened them.” The words were scarcely uttered when the girl exclaimed, “ Je suis morte ;” she trembled, and fell dead. A large vein, connected with the tumor and communicating with the internal jugular, was cut by the last stroke of the scalpel while the tumor was forcibly drawn up. This vein adhered to the sides of a sulcus, so that it remained gaping when cut. The right auricle was found distended with air, which rushed out, unmixed with blood, on laying it open ; the other chambers of the heart contained fluid blood. In all the vessels there was much air mixed with blood. No other abnormity was observed. Many examples of this accident have been reported. In 1829, Amussat had already collected thirty-nine cases. They continued to happen with considerable frequency until the use of anaesthetics during surgical ope- rations became general. Since that time, their occurrence has been very rare. Indeed, it is not difficult to perceive that anaesthesia, by eliminating from surgical operations on the neck, breast, and armpit, the struggles, cries, groans, and sobs, and the deep gasping inspirations they cause, which for- merly obtained, must considerably diminish the risk of air being drawn into wounded veins, in those regions, by the suction power of the chest. Two examples, however, were reported during the late civil war. In one of them, death occurred within two minutes, in the other in from seven to ten minutes after the mishap. The following is a brief account of these cases:— 1. Private E. M. D., Co. E, 1st Maine Heavy Artillery, aged 21, was wounded May 12, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which fractured the left temporal bone and lodged in the neck. On May 22, during an operation for extracting the ball and fragments of bone, hemorrhage from the internal jugular vein took place, and within two minutes death occurred. Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. Volunteers, ascribed the almost instantaneous death of this patient to the entrance of air into the internal jugular vein, which was communis at the ligamentum Poupartii may he added to those already known, the more so, as by means of the antiseptic method of operating, uninterrupted recoveries are more easily obtained ; that is, diffuse inflammatory infiltrations of the soft parts and extensive phlebitis are prevented. And especially as these compressing, extensive inflammatory infiltrations with phlebitis are very probably the main cause of gangrene after ligation of the arteries as well as after ligation of veins.” (Tillmanns.)