TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY COMPRESSION. 69 rib, after its issue from behind the scalenus anticus, and in the third part of its course. (Fig. 343.) By drawing the shoulder forward, and with it the clavicle, more room may be obtained tor applying the pressure to the artery. This vessel is so deeply seated, however, that it is often wise to employ a sub- stitute for the fingers to compress it against the first rib; and the best sub- stitute is a common door-key, of good size, the handle of which should be covered with the turns of a narrow roller. It should be firmly pressed down- ward into the subclavian hollow of the neck, immediately above the clavicle. The tourniquet of Petit, when reversed, afiords a thumb-piece, which, envel- oped in a roller, may be used in the same way as a door-key. Digital compression of the brachial artery. (Esmarch.) Digital compression of the femoral artery. (Esmarch.) For the axillary artery, the anterior fold of the arm-pit marks the spot where, when the arm is raised, the artery can readily be compressed against the head of the humerus, with the fingers. For the brachial artery, the centre of the upper arm is the place where, at the inner border of the biceps, this vessel can easily be compressed against the humerus. (Fig. 344.) The fingers should be placed over the artery, along the inner edge of the biceps muscle, with the thumb on the opposite side of the limb. The abdominal aorta, when the walls of the belly are relaxed and the intes- tines empty, can be compressed against the spinal column on a level with the umbilicus. To effectually make digital compression of the abdominal aorta, the patient must be'in a recumbent position, with the shoulders raised and the limbs drawn up, so as to relax the abdominal parietes; three fingers of one hand should be placed over the artery, somewhat to the left of the um- bilicus, the thumb stretching toward the other flank; and the fingers of the other hand should be placed upon those of the first, in order to make the pressure strong enough to completely flatten the vessel. This pressure, however, cannot be borne for any considerable length of time, unless a nar- cotic or anaesthetic be administered. The common iliac artery and the external iliac in the upper part may be Fig. 344. Fig. 345.