332 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. C. Heitzmann1 describes this layer as seemingly twined round the artery. The adventitia here is composed of small bundles of connective tissue ar- ranged., in the main in a longitudinal direction. Pathogeny of Arteritis.—The causes of arteritis are numerous. The most frequently recognized form is that resulting from injury, and known as traumatic arteritis. The pathogeny of the non-traumatic (idiopathic) arteritis embraces every form of dyscrasia. It follows in the train of syphilis, rheu- matism, gout, alcoholism, and nephritis, with great regularity, and may occur as a result of any morbid process which poisons the blood or impairs its nutritive qualities. These varieties will be considered under special headings. The sequelae of arteritis, as far as the arteries are concerned, may be fatty infiltration and degeneration, atheroma, secondary calcification, occlusion, dilatation,aneurism, suppuration,ulceration,and rupture. Remotely,partial or complete loss of function of the organs beyond the lesion, and partial or gene- ral necrosis or necrobiosis. I shall consider arteritis under two great heads, traumatic and non-traumatic, subdividing these as their pathogeny or patho- logy may justify in the consideration of each separate type. I. Traumatic Arteritis.—Arteritis may result from violence, either from without or from within. External violence will produce an inflammation of all the tunics of an artery, in the majority of cases, while violence from within is more apt to cause an endarteritis. Arteritis from external causes is never an uncomplicated injury. The perivascular tissue is of necessity involved in the inflammatory process. In the arteritis resulting from deligation of an artery, from the forcible compression of a vessel, as in bending the knee, from the pressure of a tumor, or from a blow in the track of the artery, there is always an accompanying inflammation of the surrounding, injured tissues. The pathology of traumatic arteritis does not difler greatly from the in- flammatory process which occurs in other vascular tissues. Immediately following the injury there is a marked increase in the vascularity of the adventitia. The vasa vasorum become swollen, the white blood-corpuscles crowd into the terminal capillaries, and migrate into the extra-vascular spaces, while a rapid proliferation of the normal cell-elements of the arterial tunics takes place. The connective-tissue cells of the adventitia, the white cor- puscles, and the flat and polar cells of the intima, all take part in the morbid process. The walls of the vessel become abnormally thickened, while, owing to the projection inwards of the intima, the calibre of the vessel is diminished. If the intima have been broken or bruised by the injury, the encroach- ment upon the calibre of the vessel will be more rapid, for in addition to the mass of embryonic tissue pushing into the lumen of the artery, there will be a deposit of fibrin upon tbe roughened and projecting internal tunic. The white corpuscles in the passing blood-current adhere to the inflamed surface, and undergo a change which causes a liberation of the fibrino-plastic matter which they contain, and a deposit of fibrillated fibrin. This coagulum is found to consist of alternate layers of leucocytes and fibrin. In the mean time, if the inflammation be not so severe that rapid necrosis occurs from the sudden arrest of the blood supply through the vasa vasorum, new-formed capillaries push through the mass of new-formed embryonic cells, into the true “granulation buds” (Fig. 510) which project into the lumen of the vessel. This form of arteritis may result in permanent occlusion of the vessel {endarteritis obliterans), or the function of the artery may be restored. If occlusion occurs, it results from the organization of the embryonic cells into 1 Microscopical Morphology of the Animal Body in Health and in Disease. New York, 1883.