CONDITION OF THE LYMPHATICS IN SYPHILIS. 39 it is necessary to assume the existence of a general dyscrasia affecting the lymphatic tissues, of different intensity and different operation in different cases, hut existing in all.” Prognosis.—As to the prognosis of this disease, we must at present regard it as exceedingly unfavorable, almost equally so with cancer. According to Brad- ley,1 there would seem, however, to be a tendency to exaggerate the gravity of the malady in its earlier phases. “ If the spleen be not implicated, if only certain groups of glands be affected, e.y., the cervical, axillary, and inguinal, and if the temperature be normal and steady, a fairly hopeful prognosis may he given. ... If, on the contrary, the spleen be much enlarged, if there be leucocy- thsemia, if the thoracic and abdominal glands participate in the disease, or, and this is a point to be especially attended to, if the temperature be high and irre- gular, the prognosis is exceedingly bad, indeed, may be said to be uniformly fatal.” Therapeutics, however, latterly seem to have afforded some good results. Treatment.—As regards surgical treatment, it is usually hopeless, and even in the earlier stages it is but of little avail. All local sources of irri- tation should be removed, and careful attention should be paid to the hygienic condition of the patient, while as remedies, cod-liver oil, iodine, and phosphorus may be administered. Arsenic appears to have been of great value in the form of Fowler’s solution, and is highly spoken of by Wini- warter, Czerny, and Billroth. Cold, injections, counter-irritants, caustics, pressure, massage, ecrasement, and electricity, would seem to he invariably useless, and often dangerous. If removal be decided on, and I confess the chances it incurs are about on a par with those of the attempted removal of any malignancy,2 the incision, or incisions, to expose the growth must be carefully planned. The opera- tion may be very easy or very difficult, but if the capsules of the glands are not adherent or softened, the removal is practicable. We must cut down on the tumor, giving free room for the use of the fingers, and indeed, after the primary incision, we must depend upon “ tearing,” or enucleation ; bleeding vessels must be tied as we proceed, and the operation resolves itself into a process of “ digging.” I removed an enormous mass of these glands (cervical) some time since in the Charing Cross Hospital, and it seemed that the more we took away the more there was to remove. There was but little haemorrhage, and the patient for a while did well, hut the return was as speedy as if the mass had been medullary. As far as the utility of removal goes, excision would seem to be merely practice in operative surgery, and an exhibition of manipulative skill, and sometimes of daring. Unless the dis- ease is attacked very early, an operation is quite useless. Condition of the Lymphatics in Syphilis.3 The introduction of the syphilitic virus into the system takes place either by abrasion, by puncture, or by absorption through the mucous membranes or cuticle, without the presence of any actual lesion. 1 Op. cit., p. 119. 2 But, as Billroth says, destruction or extirpation of the glands is “still more worthy of recom- mendation, if the modern views as to the origin of tuberculosis should prove true, viz., that every caseous area, especially if it exist in a lymphatic gland, may prove to be a source of dan- ger.” (Billroth, Clinical Surgery, p. 151. London, 1881.) 3 This subject is more fully discussed in the article on Syphilis.