MEDICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 409 red hue, and almost insensitive; then a patch puts on a bluish, bruised look, and becomes afterwards of a brownish black. If the vessel have remained patent, a little sanguinolent oozing from cracks in this dark spot forebodes an imminent hemorrhage which will not he long delayed. If the implicated artery have been sealed, lump after lump of detritus, consisting of sloughed tissue, partially decomposed active and passive clots, together with a quantity of foul pus, comes away ; the patient escapes hemorrhage, but is in great peril of exhaustion and blood poisoning. These modes of spontaneous cure have been dwelt upon at considerable length, because they are most important: many of them as indicating methods to be pursued, others as illustrating dangers to be avoided. In order to afford a compendious view of these processes I will place them in tabular order:— Mode of Cure. 1. Deposit of clot, active or passive. 2. Rupture of sac. 3. Inflammation, suppuration, and gangrene. Produced by Lessening the quantity of blood in the body. Lowering the heart’s action. , Form of tumor. Diminution of blood stream through the artery. Pressure of aneurism on artery. Displacement and impaction of a clot. ( Traumatic. ( Over-rapid growth. ( Traumatic. •< Presence of passive clot. (_ Rapid growth and pressure on irritable tissues. Treatment of Aneurism in General. All methods of treating aneurism are founded upon the processes of spon- taneous cure, every one of which has been imitated by art. It need, how- ever, hardly be pointed out that that natural process which is the safest, is the one most worthy to be copied; hence, several modes of treatment which aimed at cure by such dangerous routes as rupture or suppuration of the sac, have fallen into complete, or almost complete, disuse -,1 nor would it answer any good purpose to discuss here obsolete methods which are now mere matters of history. At the present day, the treatment may best be divided into the medical or systemic, and the surgical or local. I. Medical Treatment of Aneurism. The medical treatment of aneurism is founded on the method of Valsalva, which aims at reducing the quantity of blood, and lowering the action of the heart,2 by “ keeping the patient in bed about forty days, during which time one or more venesections should be practised, enemata be used, wine be for- bidden, and only such an amount of food and drink be given as is enough to support life; and indeed not merely in two portions in the whole day, but the 1 Mr. Syme revived some years ago the method of Antyllus, founded on rupture. 2 Valsalva left behind no writings on this subject; but his friend, Hippolytus Franciscus Albertinus, in his work entitled Animadversiones super quibusdam difficilis respirationis vitiis, a lcesa cordis et praecordiorum structure pendentibus (1748), has given a complete account of the plan which both together had devised.