716 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. much more free than before, and the patient was directed to keep up mode- rate, voluntary movements. The management of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations was precisely similar, except that, the parts being larger, more of the hands of the operator could be applied in the grasp. In these small joints no attention was paid to thumb-pressure. At the wrist, the bone-setter took the lower end of the forearm transversely in front of him. Seizing the part above the wrist in such a way that his own thumb would be on the carpus of the patient, he sought the tender, re- sisting point, and pressed his thumb upon it, grasping the limb at the same time with the whole hand ; with the other hand he seized the hand of the patient firmly, and then, after twisting the wrist-joint, suddenly brought it to a position of extreme flexion, and as suddenly straightened it again. In the elbow, the operator, by various flexions, compressions, and rotations, ascertained the motion which was the most painful, and also the position of the tender spot. Then laying the back of his hand on the corner of a table, he received the patient’s elbow in his upturned palm, and placed his thumb on the tender spot, which is generally near the insertion of the biceps muscle, and seized the patient’s wrist in his right hand. If the previous examination had shown flexion and adduction to be most painful, the operator flexed the elbow, and at the same time pronated it and rotated the arm inward, so as to bring the forearm across the chest; but if flexion and abduction had been found the most painful, he supinated the hand, and rotated the arm outward while flexing. The motions were made suddenly. There is an obscurity about these terms “ adduction” and “ abduction.” One who attempts to adduct or abduct a flexed elbow, will accomplish nothing but a rotation of the humerus inward or outward, a movement which could have very little influence on adhesions and contractions about the elbow. Probably the whole efficacy of the manipulation lay in the flexion and ex- tension, and in the rotation of the radius. The shoulder was treated in the same way, first -finding the tender spot for thumb-pressure, and the direction of painful motion. The operator then pressed the thumb to its place, generally over the coracoid process, and made a series of strong, rapid motions in such a direction as to rupture the limits ing bands. TIutton used to seek a motion strong enough to communicate a tearing sensation to his hand. I once tried this plan on a case which was precisely like those described by Hood. The tearing sensation occurred as described, but the real benefit of the operation was not superior, if equal, to that ob- tained by vigorous and well-directed, daily, passive exercises. It might be possible to rupture the axillary artery if there were old adhesions, by making the upward sweep. In the ankle, the bone-setter took the heel in the palm of one hand, seized the anterior part of the foot in the other, and made two strong, sudden flexions of the ankle," one with an inward and the other with an outward twist. Of course, the magical but useless thumb-pressure was always put on. In the knee, the plan was, according to the description, uselessly compli- cated. The patient was seated in a chair, and the operator stood in front of him, with the patient’s foot between his knees and thighs. Then clasping the fingers behind the upper part of the calf, and putting on the thumb-pres- sure, he jerked the knee somewhat upward. Having thus started it, he next hooked an elbow under the knee, and, seizing the ankle, forcibly flexed the limb. If the knee was found bent, the opposite motion was performed. The educated surgeon will see at a glance that these movements, if forcibly made in an old case of fibrous anchylosis, might readily fracture the tibia, an acci-