372 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Hyperplasia of the connective and other tissues in the immediate vicinity of a varix of long standing, presents the usual appearances of phlegmon and elephantiasis. Small spots of ulceration occur as a result of malnutrition, and, coalescing, form the large and obstinate ulcers seen so frequently in varix of the legs. Even a new formation of bone may result from the irritation of a neighboring varicosity (Cornil and Ranvier). The veins become greatly elongated and assume different shapes, irregularly sinuous or corkscrew-like, twisted upon their axes, and frequently, on account of perivascular inflamma- tion, matted together by new-formed connective tissue into venous tumors. Occlusion of varicose veins may result from thrombosis, and a cure may thus ensue. Frequently concretions are found in varicose veins, at times adherent to the walls. These concretions are called phlebolithes or phlebolites (Dungli- son). They are laminated on section, and are said to contain by analysis twenty per cent, of protein matter, with phosphate and sulphate of lime and sulphate of potassium (Franklin and Bryant), and, according to Gross, a trace of oxide of iron. They are found most frequently in the veins of the pelvis, about the bladder and prostate, especially when the latter is enlarged. Hodgson says that they are formed in other tissues, and work their way into the vessels. This theory would seem to receive a partial support from the statement just made that they are most frequently found near the prostate, and when this organ is diseased. It is well known that small calculi are frequent in this body. I have removed, after death, as many as a dozen from ulcerated pouches in a single prostate. Phlebolites are also found in veins not subject to varix. Cruveilhier believed that they were developed from coagula (Holmes). It may be deduced from the*se various statements, that, as a rule, these masses are formed from the blood in an abnormal condition, by a process of calcareous degeneration. Occasionally, extra-vascular concretions may find their way into the veins, more especially those of the prostatic and vesical plexuses. Treatment.—Varicose veins are to be treated chiefly by artificial support to the weakened and dilated walls. Eczema and the various forms of ulcer occurring in connection with varix are relieved by proper support. The varix, however, is not often cured by this means alone, which is merely palliative. Martin’s elastic bandage is of great use. Bandages of muslin or flannel, pro- perly applied, give great relief. The elastic, knit-worsted apparatus, for con- stant, equable pressure, cleanliness, and comfort, cannot be surpassed in the treatment of varix. The relief of pressure by position is always advisable. All supporting apparatus should be removed at bedtime and adjusted before rising. The only method of radical cure is by occlusion. This must be accom- plished by inducing coagulation of the blood. It is never without an element of danger, since phlebitis is apt to occur. I have used, with benefit, the hypo- dermic injection of the fluid extract of ergot into the perivascular tissues. The patient was partially relieved, hut I was fearful of thrombosis, and desisted after two operations. The use of a subcutaneous, metallic ligature, the wire being passed under and not through the veins, and acupressure, are the most approved methods. The cases are, however, exceedingly rare where such procedures are justifiable. Numerous deaths have followed from the phlebitis or thrombosis which has resulted from these operations. Varices have also been opened and burned with the actual cautery, tied between two ligatures and cut out, treated by compression after incision, etc. Pare speaks of the danger of interfering with varices, lest suffocation should occur. He had probably seen some cases of pulmonary embolism. Caustics have been used by Mayo, Brodie, Key, and others (Bryant),