ANEURISM. 426 These appearances, showing that the cure had been by the method of passive clot, were very characteristic. The laminated portion of the clot had evi- dently been formed before the bandage had been applied, coagulation having been aided or produced by the previous pressure. Shreds of this material had become detached in the application of the flat bandage. The unorganized material was that which had been produced by the Esmarch method; it tilled the part of the sac next the artery (the last portion which becomes occupied by active clot), and encased the detached part of the laminated strata. The mode, then, in which Reid’s method may cure an aneurism is, if the tumor he included in the flat bandage, a combination of pressure and manipulation; hut where the sac is excluded, it acts by simply stagnating the blood, and thus permitting simple coagulation. Mr. Gould1 considers that coagulation com- mences in the vessel, and that to its occlusion the cure is due—a view which cannot, I think, be maintained, and which certainly has not been proved. It is desirable to so employ the apparatus as to have the aneurism, and the vessel a short distance above and below, well filled with blood. Thus, sup- pose the aneurism be popliteal, the flat bandage should be applied from the toes to near the lower margin of the sac; then the patient should be made to stand, and another similar band tightly rolled on the limb from just above the tumor to the top of the thigh; then, when the recumbent posture is resumed, the round cord is to be adjusted, and the flat bands removed. Other surgeons simply bandage the limb, the patient lying down, with the flat elastic, taking care to keep the turns that encircle the sac looser than the rest. For the first few minutes this appliance is very tolerable, but after that time the part begins to be very uneasy, and then increasingly painful. Few patients can endure the pressure for more than half an hour; but this incon- venience may be partially obviated by beginning with a narcotic, or entirely eliminated by ending with an anaesthetic. The limb should be kept pulseless, unless circumstances forbid, for an hour; but, during that time, the extremi- ties, fingers or toes, must be watched, lest gangrene should suddenly supervene; the state of the circulation generally should also be sedulously attended to. Before the cord is removed, a tourniquet should be placed on the artery above, and screwed down sufficiently to command the stream and prevent a sudden flow into the sac, which might carry away the soft recent clot; or the same end may be obtained by digital pressure. After removing the cord, the sur- geon may, while keeping his hand on the tumor, let an assistant slowly relax the pressure, while he watches for pulsation; even if no, or, a fortiori, if a slight wave appear, compression should be continued for at least twTo hours. If, at the end of that time, some thrill remain, the artery must be still restrained; indeed, the case may be regarded as one to be treated by proximal pressure, the first impulse towards consolidation having been given by the Esmarch cord ; or, on the other hand, a second application of the bandage and cord may be deemed desirable. The choice must be regulated by the result of the pre- vious application, and by the effect of the proximal pressure. If the former have produced a certain amount of clotting, which has not dissolved away, the probability is that some little continuance of pressure will effect a cure. If, on the other hand, the elastic pressure have produced no clot, or a very transitory one, the choice lies between recommencement, ab initio, of the whole proceeding, or abandoning the method altogether, and resorting to some other means. Herein the surgeon must be guided by the manner in which the pre- vious pressure has been borne, and by the general results of repetition, which will be hereafter given. If it be determined to use the Esmarch cord again, I would strongly recom- 1 Lancet, vol. i. 1877.