( 375 ) ANEURISM. BY RICHARD BAR WELL, F.R.C.S., SURGEON TO CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL, LONDON. Definition and Classification. The attempt to define aneurism encounters considerable difficulty, because many different forms of disease are included under that word; and because much of our terminology has descended to us from older writers to whom the circulation of the blood was unknown. Probably the only definition which, while excluding every other malady, includes all varieties of the disease in question, will be found to run thus: Aneurism is a blood-tumor directly com.- municating with the interior of one or more vessels on the arterial side of the cir- culation.1 Some of these tumors are formed by more or less uniform dilata- tion of a certain length of a vessel, or of vessels, the blood being within the vascular lumen. Some are formed by blood lying outside the normal area of the circulation, but still inclosed in one or more of the vascular coverings; others are formed by blood which has become extravascular. Any of these forms may be complicated by preternatural communication with a vein, the disease being then termed arterio-venous aneurism. But, although such distinctions are anatomical, and satisfy all requirements of definition, they are in a clinical point of view all but useless. To make out during life whether one or two of the vascular coats entirely include the blood of the tumor, or whether those coverings have given way over a larger or smaller spot, is impossible; and the distinction, could it be made, would be valueless. Sometimes, indeed, all the three coats will have yielded, and yet the blood be contained in a definite cavity, the tumor presenting the same signs as though one or more of the arterial coats persisted. Although I think, therefore, that certain anatomical distinctions had better be forgotten, or merely considered as curious historical lore, yet it is necessary in a work of this nature—as the names have not yet been relegated to the past—to give under a sort of protest the distinguishing terms of true and false aneurism, as applied to the different conditions of the arterial coats in this disease. A “True Aneurism ” is one in which all the three tunics of the vessel are entire and continuous throughout the tumor. A “False Aneurism ” is that form in which one or more of the coats are no longer entire. ISTot only, how- ever, is the distinction impossible during life, but in many instances after death also; for during the progress of disease the distended vascular coverings undergo such changes as to render them quite unrecognizable: they may some- 1 I am of course aware that such a definition would include certain of the larger nsevi (angeio- mata), as also some recent and increasing ecchymoses. But, as will be seen in the sequel, such angeiomata are not anatomically distinguishable from small aneurisms by anastomosis, nor does such an ecchymosis, if the blood come from an arterial twig, differ from diffuse aneurism other- wise than by its size.