141 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., pp. 555, 556. rhage, and the attendants must he told what to do in case it appears, until we can arrive at the bedside of the patient. When secondary hemorrhage occurs, the vessel should generally be secured in the wound by ligatures applied on each side of the bleeding orifice, as was done in the following instance:— A soldier, aged 19, was wounded on May 28, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which passed through the left axillary space. On June 12, secondary hemorrhage from the axillary artery, to the amount of twenty ounces, occurred. On the 15th, the axillary artery was ligated above and below the wound, under chloroform. The vein was found injured, and was also ligated. The hemorrhage did not recur; but death ensued on the 28th, thirteen days after the operation. The autopsy revealed no evidence of phlebitis or pyaemia; and the patient appears to have succumbed to the prostration consequent on the loss of blood prior to the operation.1 The axillary artery and vein, in this case, were both opened by ulceration following gunshot contusion, and both vessels were quite properly treated by securing them in the wound with double ligatures. If traumatic gangrene occur, amputation is our sole expedient. If the lesion of the artery be com- plicated with compound comminuted fracture, and the region involved be the lower extremity, it is sometimes preferable to amputate at once, especially if the knee or ankle joint be opened. When, however, it seems probable that the limb can be saved although the blood-supply derived through the bruised artery be cut off, we may tie the vessel above and below the lesion. Anti- septic dressings and the employment of Chassaignac’s drainage-tubes are of great utility in these cases. Fig. 422. Drainage-tube carrier of Dr. John B. Hamilton, Surgeon-General of the United States Marine Hospital Service. To emphasize the necessity which there is for thorough drainage in treating wounds attended with arterial or venous contusions, this figure of a useful instrument is presented. Lacerated Wounds and Ruptures of Arteries. The lacerations and ruptures of the walls of arteries, which claim the atten- tion of surgeons, may be incomplete, as well as complete, in degree; and may occur in either form without the presence of any corresponding external lesions. In those enormous wounds of the extremities which are left behind when the limbs are plucked off by the action of powerful machinery in manufactories, or crushed off by the impact of cannon-balls in war, the arte- ries are torn completely across, and are often seen hanging out from the raw surface and pulsating quite down to their ragged and contracted ends, which, on examination, are found completely closed by plug-like coagula. When a limb is carried away by a round shot, the principal artery, vein, and nerves will almost invariably be found hanging from the wound, torn off at a point much more distant from the trunk than the remainder of the soft parts; and the end of the artery—lacerated, contused, contracted, and gener-