10 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL the age at which it is manifested, and in the primary involvement of the lower, rather than of the upper extremity (although sometimes the latter is first attacked, and then usually there is simply progressive muscular atrophy without hypertrophy); and from both in the apparent, sometimes massive, increase of the size of the muscles. This increase, however, is only apparent, the muscular elements themselves being either unchanged or, as is sometimes the case, atrophied—such atrophy being associated with an excessive develop- ment of fat and proliferation of connective tissue. Not infrequently it hap- pens that only a few of the muscles are hypertrophied, these being generally those of the calf and of the gluteal region, the other atfected muscles, espe- cially in the upper half of the body, being greatly wasted. Whether or not this affection, like progressive muscular atrophy and infantile paralysis, is of spinal origin, is still a question; the majority of observers have denied the existence of any associated or causative spinal lesion. Ossification of Muscle.—As the result of chronic inflammation, true bone formation may take place in muscle, such development being either limited or general. In the former case, which is vastly the more common, the prece- dent connective-tissue inflammation is due, in the great majority of instances, to frequently repeated and long continued but comparatively slight traumatic irritations (as in the so-called “exercise bones,” which, however, are generally located in the tendons rather than the muscles), but at times is of syphilitic origin. Not very infrequently circumscribed ossification will be found to have affected muscles in close proximity to exuberant callus after fracture. Once formed, the osseou^ masses or plates can usually be felt without diffi- culty, though their existence may be discovered only after death; and, ac- cording to their size, they will give rise to much, little, or no appreciable im- pairment of the full natural action of the muscle. Ordinarily they need not be interfered with, but at times they require removal. Myositis Ossificans.—Of muscular inflammation, general in its character, and terminating in the conversion of the parts affected into bone, a few cases have been observed. Commencing in early life, even in infancy, affecting prima- rily the muscles of the neck and back, and then spreading to those of the ex- tremities, and subsequently to those of the trunk, but sparing those-of the tongue, larynx, and oesophagus, the heart and the diaphragm, and those of the genitals, and affecting the abdominal muscles only to a limited extent, this may be regarded as primarily a hyperplastic inflammation of the connective tissue, producing consequent atrophy of the muscular elements, and terminat- ing in osseous transformation. As thus far observed, it does not seem to be hereditary. Its progress is slow and irregular, influenced to some extent by accidental and outside circumstances, but sooner or later the case terminates in death; either because of exhaustion, of involvement of the external mus- cles of respiration, or of local gangrene. By most writers this affection has been declared to be independent of any nerve lesion, but Hayem has questioned if it has not close relation with an affection of the nervous system, since its characteristic lesions are inflamma- tion, sclerosis, and atrophy, much resembling those of spinal origin. As far as has yet been determined, it is incurable by any method of treatment, though the affected individual may live for a number of years. Rheumatic and Gonorrh<eal Inflammation of Muscle.—So-called “ mus- cular rheumatism,” which in many cases doubtless is rheumatic only in name, is, as has already been stated, sometimes, perhaps generally, a true myositis, usually of short duration and terminating spontaneously in resolution, but at