471 GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC ANEURISMS. In 16 cases, suppuration, gangrene, or rupture of the sac occurred, 7 times with, and 9 times without hemorrhage. Of the 7 patients who bled, 4 died, one after amputation. Of the 9 who had some such giving way of the sac without hemorrhage, only one died, after suffering amputation.1 Hemorrhage occurred in 21 cases, proving fatal 15 times. In regard to the place whence the bleeding came, we may divide the 21 cases thus:— Source of hemorrhage. No. of cases. No. of deaths. Not specified ...... . 3 3 From aneurism . 7 5 From above ligature, or above and below . 9 72 From below ligature ..... . 2 0 In two cases in the table marked as “not specified,” the common iliac was tied; both were fatal. In one case of bleeding from below the ligature, the common femoral was tied with good result. • In one case of bleeding from the sac, compression below proved effectual; in one, deligation higher up was useless. In the whole number of cases there were two relapses. Ten years of experience in the six hospitals already named gave 15 cases of tying the external iliac artery (in reality 18 cases, but 3 are so recorded as to be valueless); of these 6, that is to say, 40 per cent., died. The causes of death were— Pyaemia . . . . .2 Peritonitis . . . . . 3 (in one the membrane wounded). Secondary hemorrhage . . 1 In order to have a larger view concerning the form of ligature, I have put together the cases in hospital reports, and those in published records, in which the substance used is specified ; of these I find 43 cases thus distributed:— Substance used. No. of cases. No. of deaths. No. of relapses. Per cent, of failures. Silk 9 2 0 22.2 Hemp 5 1 0 20. Wire 2 1 0 50. Catgut . 25 5 3 32. Ox aorta3 2 0 0 0. n f Silk, 1 pyaemia; 1 secondary hemorrhage. Causes I Wircs l death ' Catgut, 1 peritonitis ; 2 gangrene and rupture of sac ; 2 secondary hemorrhage. [ Hemp, 1 wide-spread peritoneal abscess. Gluteal and Sciatic Aneurisms.—I class these two forms of aneurism together, because during life it is very generally, and after death it is occa- sionally, impossible to determine from which of the two vessels4 that emerge at the great ischiatic notch, the aneurism springs. These affections are rare, but not so extremely infrequent as was a few years ago imagined. Thus some years since, Dr. Fischer, of Hanover,5 6 collected thirty-five cases, one of 1 This does not mean that amputation is not to be practised : it gave the fatally affected patient a slight further chance of life. 2 1 of pyaemia. 3 Of course, in regard to many of the substances, notably wire and ox aorta, the numbers are too small to permit any deduction ; while of silk and hemp it may be said that, nearly all deligations previous to 1870 having been done with these substances, all deaths and all successes prior to that date belong to the first, two lines of the table. 4 In the College of Surgeons Museum is a Hunterian preparation, No. 1701, Pathological Series, said by the dissector, Mr. Clift, to be an aneurism of the pudic artery outside the pelvis. 6 Archiv fur klinische Chirurg., Bd. xi. S. 162, 1869.