468 ANEURISM. The longest time of interrupted pressure was . The shortest “ “ “ The longest time of continuous complete pressure1 The shortest “ “ “ “ 4 months. 6^ days. 44 hours. H “ The Esmarch bandage may also be made available for femoral aneurisms, especially for those at the lower part of the thigh. In this situation, the mode of application is exactly similar to that for popliteal aneurism. But for high femoral and for inguinal aneurism a different method has been em- ployed—a method, indeed, which is more like rapid indirect pressure than like Reid’s method of cure. The flat bandage being applied, the large horse- shoe tourniquet is screwed down on the aorta, or on the common iliac, or on both alternately. The bandage is removed when its pressure becomes too painful; but the tourniquet is retained as long as possible, and then exchanged for digital pressure, when that is available. It is doubtful whether the distal application of the bandage has any effect on the aneurism.2 The re- corded cases treated in this way, femoral and inguinal, are 9; of these 5 were cured, 2 proved fatal (from rupture of other aneurisms), and 2 were after- wards cured by ligature of the artery. Two of these cases were of inguinal aneurism ; one patient died, while the other recovered after one hour’s treatment, the case being evidently one of that kind already more than once referred to, which has a tendency to spontaneous cure, and which requires very little artificial aid to enable nature to complete that process. We will now go on to deligations. Ligation of Common Femoral.—The operation of tying the common femoral artery is not often performed ; indeed, it has been by some surgeons entirely condemned, the neighborhood of large branches preventing what has been considered essential for success, the formation of a sufficient coagulum. This point, and the change of treatment justified by the use of soluble ligatures,, have already been considered (p. 452). Two modes of operation are described: the one by a transverse or nearly transverse incision, parallel to and a little below Poupart’s ligament; the other by a longitudinal incision over the course of the artery, that is, from the mid- dle of the femoro-abdominal fold downward. I prefer the latter method, since, the superficial branches (epigastric, pudic, and circumflex ilii) being spared, less blood is effused, and the further steps are facilitated. The first incision should expose the fascia lata; this may be divided just outside the line of pulsation, so that, the inner margin being pressed inwards, the sheath is ex- posed ; this is pext lifted by forceps, punctured, and then incised on a di- rector, the vessel being thus laid bare in its own particular division of the sheath. The aneurism needle should be passed from within outwards. Un- less a high giving off of the profunda can be detected with the finger, it is better not to tie the vessel immediately under Poupart’s ligament, but rather lower down. Deligation of the external iliac artery low down is an operation of no great difficulty, and should not occasion much bleeding. It is usually performed by a slightly curved incision above the inguinal canal, which must not be opened. I think that the usual mode, namely, by an incision almost parallel to Poupart’s ligament, though it facilitates finding the artery, exposes the ' In this case and in another (32 hours), deep and dangerous sloughing took place. 2 The two cases thus treated belong to Mr. F. A. Heath (Brit. Med. Journal, 1877, vol. i. p. 495), and to Mr. Stables (Lancet, 1879, vol. ii. p. 791). In the one, instrumental and digital pres- sure was kept up remittently for 36 hours, when the man died. In the other, the flat bandage was used for 30 minutes, and instrumental pressure for 1 hour.