381 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. or strap, and then the joint be forcibly extended, the vessel cannot follow the movement, will become stretched beyond its proper degree of yielding, and will he very likely to have its middle coat torn across; that is to say, between the transverse fibres. A sudden increased heart-action at the moment when, by such stretching, the tube is rendered rigid and narrow, must assist in pro- ducing this result. A like curtailment of the yielding quality results occasion- ally from the healing of old inflammatory mischief or of abscess around a ves- sel ; the cicatricial tissue, binding the outer coat to a more or less unyielding structure, renders the artery liable to rupture, as those who have to deal with anchylosed joints are aware. That arteries, even when healthy, can bear only a certain amount of stretching, is proved by the experiment of Riche- rand, quoted by Hodgson,1 and also by Holmes,2 namely, the application in the dead subject of such hyperextension to the knee as shall cause the liga- ments to crack; dissection will then very generally show that the two inner coats of the popliteal artery are entirely or partly torn through. Another illustration may he taken from certain mishaps that have occurred during overzealous attempts to reduce dislocations of the shoulder.3 Embolism.—Sudden check to the arterial current through a limb by the impaction of an embolus, has been alleged as a cause of aneurism; hut I think on insufficient evidence. Mr. Tufnell’s case4 seems to me rather to show the difficulty of such occurrence. A man suffering from acute rheu- matism developed suddenly a pulsating tumor in the popliteal space, which quickly subsided as collateral vessels became developed. After death, a very slight dilatation of the artery, plugged with fibrine, was found, proving that even when a systemic artery does enlarge from the lodgment of an embolus, only a transient dilatation—not an aneurism—is produced. Dr. Goodhart happened to have his finger on a rheumatic patient’s pulse when it suddenly stopped. It is not recorded that any tumefaction was observed at the time. Some days after (period not recorded), the man died, when it was found that “ the left brachial artery was considerably distended at the bifurcation, and, on opening it up, a white, creamy fluid escaped, like pus, and having the micro- scopic features of pus. The lumen of the vessel was dilated and its walls soft.”5 This suppurating vessel with softened walls can hardly be termed an aneurism. In the same volume of pathological records (page 98), are two cases, considered embolic by Mr. Bryant; the first was a case of ruptured femoral artery occurring in a rheumatic subject after a stumble, there being proof neither of aneurism nor of embolus; the second, also in a rheumatic subject, was a case of popliteal aneurism arising after some exertion. In Mr. Holmes’s case,6 there was an ulnar aneurism and endocarditis (warty); there were, too, embolic clots in the kidney and spleen ; but I cannot see any proof 1 Diseases of Arteries, p. 64. 2 System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 418. 3 I have computed, arterial elasticity thus : The subject, placed on the back, has a thick block under the shoulders, permitting the head to hang back as far as it will go (rigor mortis being eliminated). An assistant holds the points of a pair of compasses two inches apart on the bared common carotid ; close to each point a pair of scissors is placed, the blades embracing the vessel; then at a given moment the vessel is severed simultaneously at the two points. The separated piece, which, while in situ in the posture described, measured two inches, now measures about an inch and a half. Thus :— Sex. Male Age. 43 30 27 Cause of death. Violence Female Male Male 51 Phthisis Bronchitis 4 Dublin Quarterly Journal, May, 1853. 5 Pathological Transactions, vol. xxviii. p. 108. 6 System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 423.