INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 278 the wound must be opened, and the aperture whence the blood issues from the injured vessel must, if practicable, be exposed to view by enlarging the original wound or by making fresh incisions, if necessary, and by wiping out the coagula. Oftentimes the search can be materially aided by having an assistant control the flow of blood in the main artery by digital compression, especially in the extremities, and sometimes, likewise, in the neck. “ Look your enemy fully in the face,” is a motto still more applicable to the manage- ment of external hemorrhages than to behavior in battle, for the surgeon has no long-range weapon with which to overcome his adversary. The bleeding vessel having been brought into view, it must be secured with two ligatures, one of them being applied on each side of the aperture in its walls, or to each end of the vessel, if it be completely divided ; and the surgeon must sever the artery midway between the two ligatures, with a knife or scissors, in all cases where the original injury has not done so, in order that the two ends may retract, and thus lessen the tendency to a return of the hemorrhage. The bleeding vessel should likewise be sought for and found without any delay, to the end that infiltration of the surrounding textures with extrava- sated blood may be avoided, and that the hemorrhage itself may be permanently stopped, if possible, before the loss of blood becomes so great'as to cause death by anaemic exhaustion, days and perhaps weeks afterward. The bleeding from small vessels will generally cease on exposing them to the air by wiping off the coagula, and applying cold water with moderate pressure. But to all vessels which continue to bleed, both proximal and distal ligatures must be applied. When the hemorrhage proceeds from an artery that is inaccessible, as, for instance, the internal maxillary, the main trunk should be tied as near the injured part of the vessel as practicable. In cases where the hemorrhage proceeds from branches of the external carotid which cannot be tied in the wound, the external carotid itself should be ligatured, rather than the com- mon carotid. But the superior thyroid, facial, temporal, and occipital, should always, if possible, be ligatured at the place of injury. Hemorrhage from wounds of the tongue involving branches of the lingual artery should be com- bated by tying the trunk of that artery above the great cornu of the hyoid bone; and, owing to the great freedom of inosculation across the median plane, it will often be necessary to tie both linguals or both external carotids. When the vertebral artery is found to be the source of the bleeding, it should be secured by proximal and distal ligatures, if the seat of injury be below the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra;; but if the artery be wounded above its. passage into these foramina, it should be plugged with a piece of agaric, or a wad of lint, so fashioned as to completely fill the calibre of the artery, on the distal as well as on the proximal side of the breach in its walls. When an artery of the axilla is found to be the source of the hemorrhage, it should be borne in mind that there is scarcely any other region of the whole body where it is equally important to bring the bleeding vessel into view and to tie it on each side of the gap In its walls. If the axillary artery itself be found wounded, and the circulation be controlled by compressing the subcla- vian against the first rib, the distal ligature should always be applied first; otherwise, the profuseness of the distal bleeding will very much delay the completion of the operation, and perhaps place the patient’s life in peril. In operating.for secondary hemorrhage in the extremities, both lower and upper, it should never be forgotten that the application of a distal ligature is just as important as the application of a proximal ligature, because of the great freedom with which the terminal branches in the extremities inosculate together, as Dupuytren was the first to point out.