DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. 397 parts of the tumor, and is less expansile than that of an aneurism: it is not so clearly a centrifugal distension, but more like an upheaval of the whole mass by a wave from beneath. In these cases an exploratory puncture helps hardly at all, since sarcomas, cystic growths, and aneurisms, may all furnish blood. This blood, or any shreds in it or on the nozzle of the exploring canula, should be investigated, since the elements of a neoplasm might be found. Or, if doubts were strong, a very small tissue-extractor might be employed. If the disease be in the abdomen or iliac fossa, the urinary sediments should be subjected to the microscope, since in Mr. Moore’s case1 the urine contained cancer elements. Difficulties in the diagnosis of abdominal aneurism will be referred to hereafter, but a case may be here mentioned:— Case YIII.—A woman, aged 42, was, in the early part of 1869, under the care of Dr. Head, and dying of Bright’s disease. She was also supposed to have an abdominal aneurism, which occupied a space two inches below the xiphoid cartilage; to the right, reached the level of the umbilicus; and to the left, where was the chief bulk of the tumor, ran below that spot. I often, for the sake of study, compared this case with one of abdominal aneurism in a neighboring bed. The expansile heave of both tumors was identical; neither had any bruit. The woman succumbed to her kidney disease in five weeks. It was then found that the supposed aneurism was an abnormal lobe of the liver, which lay on and almost encircled the aorta, and, coming forward, pulsated against the abdominal wall. Malignant Tumors, especially of Bone.—Even more difficulty is encoun- tered when the diagnosis rests between an aneurism and certain tumors which possess an inherent pulsation of their own. The coincidence that such growths should be situated close to large arteries, is less unusual than might at first glance be supposed, since those trunks lie generally on the flexor side of limbs, coursing through spaces filled with lax areolar tissue and with lym- phatic glands—with, in fact, that sort of structure which is commonly the seat of cystic and malignant growths. The diagnosis between aneurisms and cer- tain forms of cavernous or erectile tumors, myeloid growths, soft, spindle-celled sarcomas, or encephaloid cancers, especially if highly vascular or studded with blood-cysts having very intimate relationships with the vessels, is exceed- ingly difficult, and depends upon certain differences in the mode of pulsation and of emptying and refilling, in consistence, and in the character and amount of sound, which can only be detected by very practised persons, and, in some cases, if the disease be deep-seated, not even by the most skilful. Errors have occurred in the practice of very eminent men, even when others of equal posi- tion have been called in consultation. I need hardly quote the well-known paper by Mr. Moore,2 on a case of supposed aneurism of the common iliac, which turned out to be encephaloid; or the case of Sir James Paget, who cut down on the external iliac with the intention of tying that vessel if the doubtful tumor should turn out to be an aneurism, the operation being abandoned, since the growth seemed to be a cancer. The man died of hemorrhage from the disease, which, on post-mortem examination, was found to have been after all an aneurism. The difficulty of diagnosis is increased by deep position of the disease, and by hard consistence of the parts from which it springs or by which it is sur- rounded ; for this reason, as also from similitude, the pulsatile tumor of bone, especially if deep, as in the iliac fossa, is one of the diseases liable to be mis- taken for aneurism. But, besides the character of the pulsation and bruit being, as above specified, rather different from that of aneurism, certain changes in the form of the affected bone may, on careful examination, usually be 1 Med.-Cliir. Trans., vol. xxxv. p. 459. 2 Ibid., p. 468.