INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 134 integuments and the external surface of the rib, and bring it out of the ori- ginal wound, where the two ends are crossed, drawn tightly, and knotted. This proceeding is not difficult to execute, and constitutes a subcutaneous ligation of the intercostal artery, vein, nerve, and rib. The upper puncture should be closed with an adhesive strip. "With a little care this operation may readily be performed without piercing the costal pleura, as B. Howard has shown.1 In general, it is well to secure the artery in the same way on the distal side of the wound, as practised by B. Howard. The operation with a blunt-pointed, strongly-curved needle, described above, has one great advan- tage—the bleeding may be stopped from the first moment of seeing the patient, as it can always be controlled by pressure applied in the wound until the operation is completed. Professor Gross has suggested the drilling of a hole through the rib, and the passing, in this way, of a silver wire around the artery. Whatever plan is followed, care must be taken not to wound the pleura unnecessarily, which can be avoided only by keeping close to the inner surface of the rib, and by thoughtfully manipulating the instrument in other respects. Professor D. H. Agnew’s instrument is the best for tying the vessels in with the rib. Boyer held that lateral pressure was the only remedy for hemorrhages from wounded intercostal arteries. When from any cause ligation cannot be satis- factorily performed, Desault’s excellent method of applying lateral pressure to the artery in the wound with a tampon, described above, merits a thorough trial, being equally suited for hemorrhage from the intercostal and for bleeding from the internal mammary arteries. If the pleura and lung be intact, the risk of wounding them is avoided ; but if they be already wounded, it is the least irritating dressing that can be employed. There is no danger of dropping the tampon of Desault into the pleural cavity and thus losing it, as has happened in plugging such wounds with sponges or charpie. More- over, it has proved successful in a considerable number of cases (Begin, Velpeau, Jamain) in controlling the hemorrhage without exciting inflamma- tion in the pleura or the lung (Otis). In hemorrhage from chest-wounds which open the pleural cavity, the application of compresses externally does no special good; for it directs the flow of blood inwardly, and thus conceals the hemorrhage without abating it. Guthrie reports one case where secondary bleeding from an intercostal artery recurred several times, and was ultimately suppressed by the oil of turpentine, applied on a dossil of lint, and pressed on the bleeding spot by the fingers of assistants until the hemorrhage ceased; recovery followed. Such styptic solutions, however, as those of the perchloride and persulphate of iron, are not any more applicable to wounds of the chest that are bleeding than they are to wounds of other parts ; and when the pleural sac is also opened by the wound, they might do much harm, if applied, by getting into the pleural cavity. So, too, with all the styptic substances which are used in a pulver- ized state, even those against which, jper se, valid objections cannot be raised, as they can be against Monsel’s salt, etc.: their employment in such cases is hazardous, because they may fall into the pleural cavity. Many other plans of dealing with this exceedingly troublesome form of hemorrhage have been proposed by authors. Some of them are dangerous, others trivial, and others again more ingenious than useful. Inasmuch as bleeding from the inter- costal arteries is not unfrequently met with in cases where the pulmonary tissue also is lacerated, the surgeon, in such cases, must avoid doing anything which will increase the hemorrhage from the lung. When, however, an intercostal artery is wounded between the sternum and the middle of the ribs 1 American Medical Times, vol. vi. p. 52.