TUMORS OP MUSCLES. 13 Contracture of greater or less degree may be produced by the presence of gummata, and such contractures at times remain during the entire after-life of the individual affected, though the gummata themselves may have dis- appeared long before death. The functional integrity of the muscle is always more or less impaired when cartilaginous or, still more, osseous degeneration has taken place. The treatment of gummy tumors is constitutional, consisting in the adminis- tration of the iodides, either with or without mercury. Local applications are of little or no benefit, and extirpation of the tumors, which has at times been practised (commonly, it is true, because of an error in diagnosis), is quite unjustifiable. Tumors of Muscles.—Tumors may be located in muscles either by original development, or by extension from neighboring parts. They may be either benign or malignant in character, both sarcomatous and carcinomatous growths being embraced in the latter division. Non-Malignant Tumors. — Primary lipomata and enchondromata, though found in muscles, are pathological rarities, much more so than might be sup- posed, taking into consideration the amount of connective tissue and supported fat that is found in the muscular structure. Vascular tumors are much more common, both those due to dilatation and those arising from rupture of vessels. The former (angeiornata proper) are seldom primary, and almost never purely muscular, the skin and subcutaneous tissues, as well as the muscles, containing the growths at the same time, either by association or by extension. As shown by Broca, “ these erectile tumors of muscle are always principally venous.” Hcematomata following muscle- ruptures are quite common, and Avhen superficial may usually be readily de- tected by the fulness and softness of the existing swelling, and by the generally- associated discoloration of the skin. In the deeper muscles (and it is in these, especially in the rectus abdominis, that the extravasation-tumor more often occurs) the swelling may be overlooked or mistaken for that dependent upon the contraction of the torn fibres of the muscle. As we have already seen when treating of muscular ruptures, the very nature of the accident may be altogether misunderstood, and the case treated as one, for instance, of intestinal obstruction. In cases of doubt, exploration with a fine trocar or the needle of an aspirator will usually establish the diagnosis. Suppuration, though not very likely to occur, does at times take place, and may be the cause of death, as when an abscess in the rectus abdominis bursts into the peritoneal cavity. Though usually not very large, the hsematoma occasionally reaches an extraordinary size, as in Virchow’s case where the tumor was over 3J inches long, 2f inches wide, and 2J inches thick, the torn muscle being the right iliacus internus and the patient a “ bleederand as in Richardson’s case, in which rupture of the right rectus abdominis from muscular effort was fol- lowed by a hemorrhage from the torn internal epigastric artery to the amount of a half-pound clot, occupying a cavity made by the retraction of the torn muscular fibres to the extent of from “ one and a half to two inches.” Cure ordinarily takes place hy absorption, but at times a firm, thick, cartilaginous sac-wall with contained shrivelled and broken-down corpuscles remains ever afterwards, causing more or less disturbance of the muscular movements. The treatment appropriate for the rupture is that best fitted to produce removal of the extravasated blood, aided, if necessary, by aspiration. If the coagulum is too firm to be thus gotten rid of, after a reasonable length of time has been allowed for the occurrence of absorption, without this having taken place, it will be advisable to cut into the tumor and turn out the