INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 268 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 554, stract and the wood-cut accompanying it (Fig. 451) afford good illustrations of this topic:— A soldier,1 aged 25, was wounded June 3, 1864, by a conoidal ball which entered the left axilla, and lodged at the posterior border of the scapula ; it was extracted, and simple dressings applied. On the 15th secondary hemorrhage to the amount of twenty ounces occurred. The wound was tilled with lint, soaked in a solution of the persulphate of iron, and a compress applied. On the 16th hemorrhage again occurred, but yielded to strong pressure on the compress. On the 17th the patient was very pale and anaemic, and was suffering much pain in the arm and shoulder. The compress and plug were removed, and the blood gushed out alarmingly. The wound was at once freely dilated, Fig. 451. Gunshot contusion of left axillary artery; profuse secondary hemorrhage on the twelfth day; the vessel tied in vain. Spec. 2576, Sect. I., A. M. M. and the axillary artery tied. The hemorrhage stopped, and at the same time the heart ceased to beat. Necroscopy—The axillary artery was found widely opened by slough- ing, about the middle of its course, on the side next to the track of the ball. The specimen is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 451), which exhibits a large, deep perforation, with jagged edges, involving nearly half the cylinder of the artery, about an inch above the origin of the subscapularis. The missile which penetrated the axilla in this case was nearly spent, and lodged. In passing, it doubtless struck the side of the axillary artery (where the jagged aper- ture is shown in the wood-cut), and strongly bruised all its tunies, so that when the slough came away the canal of that vessel was widely opened. (2) This variety of hemorrhage not unfrequently occurs in consequence of simple ulcerative inflammation, by which the coats of the arteries are per- forated and their canals are opened. Displaced fragments of bone, through pressure, not unfrequently cause ulcerations in the walls of arteries, making apertures through which secondary hemorrhages take place. Several in- stances have already been mentioned. The following example came under my own observation: — A soldier, aged 24, was wounded at Cold Harbor June 3, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which entered the right ankle in front of the external malleolus, and emerged below the inner malleolus, having fractured the lower end of the tibia and the astragalus. An effort was made to save the limb ; on the 12th he was admitted to Stanton Hospital, where this effort was continued. He did tolerably well until August 27, when a pro- fuse flowr of arterial blood unexpectedly occurred from the wound, and reduced him very much. Without delay, and as a last resource, I amputated his leg, at the place of election, under ether. On dissecting the amputated limb it was found that the posterior tibial artery was the source of the bleeding; that the pressure of a piece of bone had caused ulceration and sloughing of its w'alls, and that the piece of bone itself had been displaced and driven against the artery by the missile. The articular surfaces of the tibia and astralagus wrere extensively comminuted. A strongly supporting course of treatment was pursued, the patient receiving nutri- ents, stimulants, and tonics, as required, but these did not enable him to overcome the effects of the bleeding. He died from anaemic exhaustion twenty days after the hem- orrhage.