371 VENOUS VARIX. the superficial veins, though Verneuil says that varix is really as common in the deep-seated as in the superficial vessels (Bryant). It is especially prone to occur in the saphena veins. Hemorrhoids and varicoceles are common forms of varix. Unusual types are the dilatation of the jugulars from stenosis of the vena cava descendens, and that of the superficial abdominal veins from stenosis of the ascending cava. Such conditions are described by some authors as simple hypertrophies or dilatations of veins. Any long-continued dilatation constitutes a varix. Hyperplasia of the normal tissues of the venous wall is the natural sequence of prolonged pressure and increased function. The hyper- trophy of the wall is not always equal to the resistance of the increased pressure; hence sacculated pouches occur when the vessel wall becomes much thinner than normal, not infrequently resulting in rupture. Yarix is of fre- quent occurrence in women who have had repeated pregnancies (Billroth). Poorly-fed and hard-worked persons, especially those who work in the upright posture, are more prone to varix than others. There can be no doubt that gravitation is the chief and immediate cause of this disease. The veins most subject to the greatest, prolonged blood-weight, and least protected by pressure, are involved in the great majority of cases. Paralysis of the muscular walls, either by atrophy of the muscles or interference with the function of the nervi vasorum, may cause varix. This is proven by the fact that a small segment of a single vein in the upper portion of the body, where the anastomosis is free and gravitation cannot be considered as a factor in the dilatation, may be the seat of this affection. Mr. Gray says that “ with superficial varicosity there are other serious lesions affecting both arteries and veins, deep and superficial, such as would lead to the conclusion that the general circulation has been subject to a very considerable and long-standing embarrassment, some incompetency of the arte- rial system, or impediment to the venous, or both combined” (Bryant). In well-marked varix the veins are greatly increased, not only in calibre but in length, so that they seem coiled and twisted upon themselves in knotted masses. They are narrowed in calibre at frequent intervals, these contractions opening into expanded pouches, in general appearance not unlike the sacculated large intestine. The valves are wholly inefficient, often flat- tened against the wall, or at times partially destroyed. At the level of the valves the walls are exceptionally thickened. The thickening is due to a multiplication of the muscular elements and hyperplasia of the connective tissue. The connective-tissue new formation is abundantly distributed in the meshes of the elastic network, and the bundles of fibres are usually arranged parallel with the long axis of the vessel. This accounts for the longitudinal ridges seen on the inner surface of the affected veins (Cornil and Ranvier). Even the nutrient vessels of the walls of these varicose veins—the vasa vasorum—have undergone hypertrophy, and are themselves the seat of varix, forming at times venous caverns in the wall of the vessel, which communi- cate with the vein. The internal tunic is not, properly speaking, thickened, except at the points of attachment of the valves, or when a thrombus has formed. Immediately external to the middle elastic tunic, the muscular tissue ap- peal’s increased in quantity, arranged in transverse and perpendicular laminin, separated by bundles of hypertrophied connective tissue, which are not infrequently stained with granular pigment. Calcareous deposits occur primarily within or between these connective-tissue bundles (Cornil and Ran- vier).1 1 In the arteries, these deposits occur first around and within the nucleus of the unstriped muscle, and gradually increase until they fill the cell, which becomes converted into a small calcareous flake (Green). See section on Arteritis.