608 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. tetanus. (Intermittent fever of a tetanic form has even been described.) Race especially seems to play an important part, tetanus being more frequent and more grave among negroes, independently of climatic influences. Finally, inheritance was invoked in a case of Metzger’s. But the most important condition is individual predisposition, a vague cause which we are forced to admit in view of the disproportion which exists between the number of in- stances of tetanus, and that of cases which unite the conditions believed to be sufficient to provoke this affection. When we shall have mentioned the condition of over-work, and that of moi’al depression, which have been some- times invoked with probability, it will only remain for us to speak of the surrounding conditions which play a very important part, and the most impor- tant of which is cold. Cold, moist cold, and especially sudden variations of temperature—which explain the frequency of tetanus in certain climates with high temperature, Cayenne for example—are occasional causes, admitted by all authors, which may he sufficient (tetanus a/rigore), but which are not met with in all cases. Nothing is more convincing than the case cited by Mirbeck, of that American infant who died of tetanus four days after having received, full upon its chest, a glass of iced water, being in a sweat. It is through the influence of joint causes, cold and moral depression, upon the wounded who remain upon a battle field (the battle of Bautzen, for example), that the epidemics of tetanus which are sometimes observed are generally ex- plained. Some authors admit the possibility of contagion, of poisoning, as in surgical septicaemia. Betoli reports the case of slaves who died of tetanus after having eaten the flesh of a bull which had perished from this affection. This latter mode of transmission is admitted, it seems, in certain regions of America. Pathological Anatomy.—The lesions characteristic of tetanus have been successively sought for in the spinal cord and its envelopes, in the brain, in the nerves near the wound, and finally, in the muscles. We shall briefly pass in review the principal results of the autopsies which have been made, and shall see what conclusions may thence be derived. The brain is generally healthy; there have been described, congestion of the meninges, convolutions, pons, tuberculse quadrigeminse, and corpora striata, colloid degeneration of a part of the cerebellum, and, in one case, tumor of the cerebellum (Jackson); upon the whole, nothing constant. The meninges of the medulla oblongata, which are sometimes found irritated or even inflamed, are more often normal. It is upon the spinal cord that investigations, have been especially concen- trated, and it is also here that lesions have been most frequently found. The facts which have been observed may be arranged in three classes. In the first are placed the negative cases, where the spinal cord does not present any change after death, although the histological examination has been made by observers of unquestionable authority; in the second class are the cases where only a simple hypersemia has been established, especially marked around the bulbar nuclei of the cranial nerves, and around the canal of the ependyma and of the roots of the nerves going to the injured region. Finally, the third class includes the positive lesions: nuclear proliferation in the retic- ular substance, and a return of the cellular elements to the embryonal state, whether by modification of the protoplasm or by degeneration of the cells; plates of granular degeneration of Lockhart Clarke, which are, according to Michaud, foci of perivascular exudation; colloid degeneration, etc.; in short, myelitis, more or less advanced, occupying especially the regions of the spinal cord in which congestion has been noted in other cases (hyperacute central myelitis of Charcot and Michaud).