TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 239 in a traumatic aneurism of the axillary or femoral region, all the constitu- tional signs of hemorrhage—pallor, cold sweating, pulselessness, and syn- cope—may arise ; and sometimes, in such cases, death from anaemic exhaus- tion, as well as from syncope, may ensue. Of this I have already presented a number of illustrative cases. Treatment.—Diffused traumatic aneurisms require the same treatment as wounded arteries, which has already been minutely set forth in the foregoing pages. Erichsen well observes The treatment of these cases must be conducted on precisely the same plan as that of an injured artery communicating with an external wound, the only difference being, that, in the case of the diffused traumatic aneurism, the aperture in the artery opens into an extravasation of blood, instead of upon the surface. We must especially be upon our guard not to be led away by the term aneurism that has been applied to these cases, and not to treat such a condition, resulting from wound, by the means that we employ with success in the management of that disease.1 The safety of the patient generally depends upon exposing the injured artery, and ligaturing it above and below the lesion. In deeply-seated arteries, e.g., the gluteal in the buttock, or the posterior tibial in the calf of the leg, this is not always an easy operation. In some cases, however, compression with absolute quietude of the injured part should be tried before resorting to liga- tion. When arteries are ruptured by fragments of bone in simple fractures of the leg or thigh, compression, digital or instrumental, continuous or inter- mittent, should be applied to the main trunk of the femoral artery. This, together with the immobility of the injured limb and the moderate degree of pressure on the tumefaction which are furnished by the dressings of the frac- ture, has proved much more successful in such cases than any other plan of treatment, as I have already shown in the section on lacerated wounds and ruptures of arteries. So, too, in cases where the axillary artery is ruptured in reducing old dislocations, and a diffused aneurism forms in consequence thereof, compression should be applied to the subclavian artery over the first rib by means of a door-key, while the arm is immovably fastened to the chest by a roller, as I have already pointed out in the same section. Should com- pression fail in either class of cases, deligation of the main artery on the plan of Hunter will generally succeed, provided the arm be kept immovably fixed to the chest in one class of cases, or the leg be held motionless by the fracture dressings in the other. But, in cases where immobility of the in- jured part cannot be secured, the wounded artery should be laid bare and ligatured above and below the lesion, that is, the “ old operation” for aneu- rism should be performed without delay. When an aneurism upon which the “ old operation” is about to be performed is so situated that the circula- tion in the main artery cannot be controlled by digital compression, nor by a tourniquet, nor by Esmarch’s elastic ligature—as,"for example, at the root of the neck—the surgeon should commence the operation by making a puncture just large enough to admit one or two fingers of his left hand, which he should quickly thrust into the swelling in such a manner as to plug up the orifice in the integuments ; with a finger he should then search the bottom of the cavity, and find the aperture in the wounded artery, be it primitive carotid or subclavian; and with a finger or fingers he should cover the aper- ture in the wounded artery so as to prevent any outflow of blood from it while he lays the tumor freely open, removes the coagula, and ligatures the artery on each side of the lesion, as was done in the following instance, during the late civil war:— 1 Science and Art of Surgery, vol. i. p. 162.