WOUNDS OF THE PERICARDIUM AND HEART. 227 three days a punctured wound, received in a duel, of the azygos vein in the curve it describes before entering the cava.1 Wounds of the Pericardium.—The examples of this lesion which were reported during the late civil war tend to confirm the conclusions of Fischer —derived from the analysis, of 51 cases with 22 recoveries—that wounds of this membrane, unless gravely complicated, are not as dangerous as has gen- erally been supposed.2 Two specimens preserved in the Army Medical Museum illustrate the subject, viz.: Specimen 504, a conoidal musket-ball imbedded between the arteria innominata and the descending cava within the pericardium, provoking pericarditis f and Specimen 2243, exhibiting shaggy deposits of lymph on the heart and pericardium, following gunshot injury.4 Eight cases with three recoveries are recorded with considerable minuteness of detail in the first surgical volume of the “ History of the War” (pp. 528, 529). Wounds of the Heart.—The traumatic lesions of the heart, though justly ranked among the most dangerous of all injuries, are not in every instance mortal. A man was killed6 in an affray at Fort Dodge June 2, 1867. He had inflicted, with a large sheath knife, several stabs upon his antagonist, when the latter, seizing his wrist, turned the point of the knife toward him, and suddenly drove the blade with great force into his chest, the handle being still grasped in his own hand. He fell at once, gasping for breath, with his face deadly pale, and expired in about eight minutes. Autopsy—The knife-blade, after cutting cleanly through the sternum, had traversed the mediastinum, and freely opened the right auricle of the heart. The pericardium and the mediastinum were filled with extravasated blood, and the cardiac cavities were empty. The specimens are represented in the accompanying wood-cuts (Figs. 432 and 433). 1 See Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surgical Vol., p. 527. Foot-note. 2 Ibid., p. 528. 3 Catalogue, p. 453. 4 Catalogue, p. 454. 6 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 534 ; Circular No. 3, S. <31. 0., 1871, p. 91. Fig. 432. Fig. 433. The heart, showing the incised wound of the right auricle. (Spec. 4S70, sec. ], A. M. M.) The sternum, showing an oblique incision through it, which penetrated the right auricle of the heart. (Spec. 4869, sec. 1, A. M. M.)