90 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. make their way through the vessels they embrace by an ulcerative process. For, in connection with this process under such circumstances, there are two sources of danger:—1. The walls of the artery may be extensively opened by sloughing, and thus the hemorrhage may recur. 2. The ulceration through the artery may take place before the clots in its tube are properly strengthened and fastened by the healing process, and thus, too, a failure of the operation may be wrought. The risk of sloughing, however, arises mainly from isolating the artery too much, or from separating it too extensively from its sheath, while dissecting to expose it or while pre- paring to pass a thread around it, whereby the minute vessels which nourish its coats are too extensively destroyed; hence the-dangerousness of passing a spatula or the handle of a scalpel under the artery, and of dragging it out of its bed when tying it. The premature ulceration of a ligated artery is generally due to constitutional causes. It is, however, my belief that the risk of the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage after permanent ligations, when properly performed, is much exaggerated in many of the current state- ments. Still, the ulcerative process by which all permanent ligatures, no matter how skilfully applied, must make their way out, is unquestionably attended with more or less danger according to the case; and to avoid whatever there may be of this danger, threads made of animal tissues are now extensively employed for tying bloodvessels, in the hope that, after pro- ducing complete and permanent haemostasis, they will themselves disappear by absorption, and that thus, while acting as temporary ligatures, they will give permanently good results. Animal Ligatures.—The use of animal ligatures was first suggested in 1814, by Dr.’Physick, of Philadelphia. Dr. D. M. Reese, the American edi- tor of Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, which was republished in New York, in 1842, says: “To our distinguished countryman, Professor Physick, of the University of Pennsylvania, is undoubtedly due the honor of having first introduced what is known as the animal ligature into surgical practice. His ligatures are made of chamois leather, and he and the late Dr. Dorsey usually rolled their ligatures on a slab to make them round and hard. The advan- tages proposed by the ligatures of Dr. Physick are, that, being made of ani- mal matter, the knot or noose, which is all that is left in the wound, will serve long enough to obliterate the artery, and he speedily removed by the absorbents, thus avoiding the difficulty arising from a foreign body, however minute. These ligatures have been used in this country to a great extent, and Sir Astley Cooper has demonstrated their superiority in his own opera- tions. Dr. Hartshorne used strips of parchment for his ligatures. Dr. Jame- son, Professor of Surgery in Washington Medical College, Baltimore, has for a series of years, been employing the animal ligature in an extensive surgical practice; a number of his operations I have witnessed. He has used it in many amputations of the limbs and mamma; he has tied the carotid, the iliac, the femoral, the radial, the posterior tibial, the spermatic, and other arteries, with buckskin ligatures, and in no instance had secondary hemor- rhage; and he states that he has never seen anything of his ligatures, and of course his wounds have generally healed by the first intention. He also states, as the result of his observation and experiments upon sheep, dogs, and other animals, that a capsule will surround the ligature, if the capillary ves- sels be not much disturbed, or the vessel will be surrounded by an abundance of lymph, and the ligature dissolved.”1 In the supplement to the same work, Dr. Reese also says: “ Dr. Eve, of Georgia, employs exclusively ligatures 1 Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, edited by Reese, vol. ii. p. 130. New York 1842.