183 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. them the popliteal artery was involved. In two of these three cases it was found, on dissection, that there was complete division of the artery; in the other case it was surmised that there was complete division of the artery, hut no autopsy was made. In the remaining four cases it was believed that the femoral artery was wounded by a musket-ball in every instance; but it was not known that the artery was completely divided in any of them. Of these seven cases observed by Guthrie, then it appears that, as far as known, the vessel was completely divided in but two instances, both pertaining to the popliteal artery. Amputation was resorted to in two instances, but without avail. Every one of these seven cases proved fatal.1 Guthrie also stated that he had seen, in London, three cases of gangrene following wounds of the femoral and popliteal arteries; in twTo the popliteal, and in one the femoral was the injured vessel. All proved fatal from the extension of the gangrene.2 The principal cause of the great fatality which attends traumatic gangrene, is the fact that a line of demarcation, or separation of the dead from the living tissues, is but seldom formed in such cases. This circumstance is also noticed by Guthrie. The consequence is, that the veins which proceed from the gangrenous part toward the trunk, not being closed or obliterated as they would be if a line of separation were formed, convey the decomposing blood and other putrescent liquids from the gangrenous part, and pour them into the current of the general circulation. Thus, systemic poisoning of a septic character, or septicaemia, is produced, and the patient’s life is destroyed; and the earlier the date may be when the gangrenous part is removed from the body by amputating it, the less will be the degree of the septicaemia. Symptoms of Complete Arterial Division.—The symptoms which indicate that a large artery that lies in or crosses the track of a gunshot wound is completely divided, are, brisk hemorrhage, and the disappearance of pulsation in the injured vessel and its branches below or beyond the wound. In cases where there is such absence of pulsation, but no hemorrhage, there may be some doubt as to whether the lesion consists of complete division of the artery, or complete obstruction of its canal from recurvation of its severed inner and middle coats or from plugging with coagulum. But such an occlusion from plugging, without division of the external tunic of the artery, is a very rare occurrence in the history of wounds made by small-arm missiles, however frequently it may be met with in cases where arteries are stretched or bruised; and it should be estimated accordingly. Treatment.—When a large artery is completely divided in a gunshot wound, the first indication is to suppress the primary bleeding, without delay, by digi- tal compression, and to restrain it in this manner until the ends can be found and secured by a carbolized catgut ligature applied to each of them. The method in which digital compression can be most effectually employed in such cases, consists in placing both index fingers, or a thumb, in the wound, and applying them directly to the ends of the bleeding vessel. In this way the hemorrhage can be arrested with promptitude, with certainty, and with but little effort; for only a slight degree of pressure is required to arrest the flow of blood, if applied directly to the bleeding orifice of the artery. I say again that, in this way, the hemorrhage from gunshot wounds involving the arteries of the neck, armpit, and extremities, may readily be controlled by any person of ordinary intelligence, until surgical assistance can be obtained, and the injured vessel can be properly ligated. Moreover, the compression, Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, pp. 235-243. 2 Ibid., p. 245.