PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. 575 of nerves, and which have evidently for their cause, irritation of the central end of the injured trunk. These disturbances from central irritation may affect both sensibility and motility. The principal sensory disturbance is what is called traumatic neu- ralgia. This neuralgia, which is also observed after amputations, occurs especially in cases of 'puncture or of gunshot wound, or when a foreign body remains imbedded in the nerve. The graphic description of these pheno- mena given by Professor Trelat, in a case of neuralgia of the stump, may serve as a type for other cases. “ Touch,” he says, “ lightly, with the end of the finger; brush the skin of the stump; and immediately the drama bursts forth in all its violence; the patient raises above the bed, with a sudden, automatic movement, the lower limb, which is immediately seized with a jerking, convulsive and involuntary trembling; his countenance, at the same time, expresses excruciating pain; it becomes pale and distorted; drops of sweat form upon his forehead; and with both hands he strives to compress his thigh, to hold his limb steady, and to overcome the trembling and the darting pain. It is no use ; the paroxysm persists one or two minutes, and then all becomes calm until a new touch comes to reawaken the pain.” The patient compares the pain which tortures him to that of a recent burn; it seems to him that a thousand redhot needles are passing through his limb. Shoot- ing pains radiate towards the periphery, and, at the same time, ascend to- wards the root of the limb. The pain may extend even to other nervous branches, more or less distant, and may affect the nerves of the limb of the opposite side. M. Ollivier has seen, following a contusion of the fifth, right, intercostal nerve, radiating pains in all the branches of the brachial plexus of the same side. Numerous examples of these radiating neuralgias may be found in Swan’s treatise. Weir Mitchell admits in these cases an inflammation pro- pagated from the injured nerve to the other branches by means of anasto- moses. Professor Yulpian thinks, on the contrary, that if occasionally these neuralgias may be referred to a peripheral neuritis, it is probable that they often have, at least in part, another mechanism, and that they depend upon a modification of the gray substance at the level of the medullary centre of the injured nerve. These traumatic neuralgias are ordinarily coincident with the phenomena described under the name of causalgia, and if causalgia is often limited to the territory of the injured nerve, it may also extend to that of the neigh- boring branches; there is then observed that condition of excessive hyper- sesthesia which Weir Mitchell has named sensory tetanus. According to the hypothesis of Professor Yulpian, the irritation in these cases would be local- ized in the sensory, medullary centre of the nerve. But more frequently it affects also the motor centre, an<j, at the same time, with the neuralgia, there are observed traumatic spasms. These two phenomena were. united in M. Trelat’s patient whose history has just been cited. These spasmodic move- ments, especially frequent after amputations, constitute the chorea or epilepsy of stumps, and, like the pain, the spasmodic contraction may extend to distant parts. In several of Weir Mitchell’s cases, the convulsive, motor excitation was seen to extend from the muscles of an arm stump to those of the neck, trunk, face, and larynx. It is readily understood that if the irritation becomes generalized, there follows a true epileptic attack. The experiments of Brown-Sequard upon the epilepsy of guinea-pigs, following sections of the sciatic nerve, are well known. Cases of the same kind have been observed in man, as the result of contusions, gunshot wounds, and other grave traumatisms of the sciatic nerve. Billroth, Schaffer, Magnan, Samuel, and Wilks, have seen attacks of complete epilepsy thus produced, the initial aura having its origin from