503 ANEURISM OF THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. pulsation ceases—or, in cases of wound, whether hemorrhage is arrested—by pressing on the carotid; but it is just this pressure, exercised in the usual way, but with insufficient consideration of its effect, that has so completely misled diagnosis in the large number of cases above referred to. The place usually chosen for compression of the carotid artery is the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, or perhaps, since the skin and fascia tend to bear the finger upward, a little below this point. Now this pressure, properly carried out, will certainly check all pulsation in the carotid and its branches, or in their aneurisms; but surgeons, founding upon this fact a diagnosis of carotid aneurism, have been led into grievous.error, because they have not remembered that such compression must infallibly affect the verte- bral also. Even if the carotid be compressed against a transverse process higher up, there yet will remain a source of error in the irregularity of the vertebral, which occasionally does not pass into the chain of foramina until it reaches the axis. Hence the only means of secure diagnosis is by pinching the vessel, after Rouge’s method (p. 497), with the finger and thumb behind the relaxed sterno-mastoid, while the soft parts are drawn a little for- ward—away, therefore, from the spine, and not pressed against it. By this means, doubtless, an accurate diagnosis may be arrived at. Treatment of Vertebral Aneurism.—The treatment of these cases has not been fortunate; indeed, only two—those of Mobus1 and Kocher—have ended favorably. This infelicitous result is doubtless in part owing to mistakes of diagnosis, but also to inherent difficulties in the anatomical arrangement of the parts, which is such as to preclude the use of many of the means usually at our command. Pressure on the lower end of .the vertebral could certainly not be borne without an anaesthetic long enough to have any effect on a traumatic aneurism; nor do I think, seeing how free is the intercommunica- tion of vessels at the base of the brain, that the prospects of a good result would be sufficient to warrant an attempt to cure by proximal pressure after the rapid method. The injection into the sac of perchloride of iron could not be effected under the principles necessary for success, namely, occlusion of the vessel, at least on one side of the aneurismal sac; while the danger of the clots and the solution being carried into the brain, is very evident.2 The same may be said of galvano-puncture, though that might be more safely used, since the clots formed by the current are less persistent. The parenchymatous injection of ergotin,unless the rapidly growing sac demanded the immediate use of more potent measures, might certainly be tried. Probably, however, in most cases, carefully applied direct pressure and the application of cold will be found the most efficacious of all the non-operative measures. As already said, only two cases have ended well, the first being that of Mobus—a traumatic aneurism which was judged to be formed on a branch of the carotid; the vessel was exposed, and the aneurism needle passed round it, when pressure on the curve of the instrument being found not to restrain pulsation, the wound was closed. The patient refused to submit to further operation, and under the application of cold the aneurism consolidated. The successful case of Kocher was one of stab on a level with the interval between the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The wound had been received three weeks previously, giving rise almost daily to hemorrhages, which had been treated with pressure and the application of pads steeped in the liquor ferri perchloridi. Kocher introduced his finger, enlarging the wound pretty freely, and removing laminated, discolored, and loose, dark clots. He then 1 Grafe and Walther’s Journal, Bd. xiv. 2 The only case thus treated (Liicke) died with brain troubles, repeated injections having probably much to do with the result.