705 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. In carrying out such a plan, the utmost thoroughness is obligatory, and the openings for drainage must be made, and other details attended to, in accordance with a well-considered plan of local treatment, which involves considerable care and watchfulness. Full instructions will be found on another page for making the six open- ings into the knee-joint, commonly used by the author, so as to obtain tho- rough access for drainage-tubes and for injections, to every square inch of its synovial lining. As the area of the joint surfaces in the knee far exceeds that of any other articulation, so does the severity of the reaction, when it is inflamed, while the necessity for efficient management in the local treat- ment is correspondingly increased. In addition to the carbolized injections and antiseptic dressings, frequently renewed ice-bags of large size are to be applied to meet the first invasion of inflammatory symptoms, and to maintain a thorough, antiphlogistic influ- ence. In this manner there will be hope of carrying the patient through a tedious convalescence, without great risk to life. Anchylosis very com- monly but not invariably results. When this is considered inevitable, the limb should be placed in a slightly bent position, as this is found to be more favorable for locomotion and general comfort than that of full extension. Minor Displacements of the Knee.—The peculiar structure of this joint, having a rim of fibro-cartilage forming a wedge-shaped layer around its circumference, leads to several minor accidents whose precise nature is often obscure. Injuries of this kind receive from different surgeons various names. Hamilton avoids the question of exact pathology, by classing all under the group of “ Internal derangements of the knee-joint” Erichsen denominates them “ Subluxations of the knee” Sir Astley Cooper regarded them as par- tial dislocations of the femur from the semilunar cartilages, and Malgaigne believed them to be subluxations of the latter cartilages from the tibia. In all probability, a variety of different injuries occur within the knee, but as they lack the confirmation of post-mortem study, and as their external symptoms are slight, it is probable that the exact pathology of these injuries will remain in doubt. “Floating” or “loose” cartilages in the knee-joint are discussed in another article. Sudden strains in a rotary direction are said to be the cause of most of these internal displacements. The symptoms are a sudden locking and violent pain in the region of the joint, often while walking. The patient is compelled to cease instantly all efforts at flexion or extension, and sometimes is thrown to the ground by his sudden inability to make the necessary movements to preserve his balance. The treatment of these injuries consists in gentle manipulation. The re- duction usually takes place after a little handling, without the patient or sur- geon being able to say just what change in the relation of parts has occurred. If gentle movements, and pressure at different points, do not result in re- storing to the joint a normal state of feeling and mobility, the patient may be anaesthetized, and the limb strongly flexed and extended alternately, when its natural condition will soon be restored. It is said that portions of the semilunar cartilages are sometimes broken loose, and driven into the interior of the joint. If such an injury should occur, its nature might he discovered by the touch of the finger, and re- duction might perhaps be effected by rocking movements of the joint in various directions, so as to make the condyles of the femur act as wedges, and force the loose piece out to its place. Dislocation of the Head of the Fibula.—This is a rare accident which Bryant attributes in most instances to violent adduction of the foot and abduction of the knee.