INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 66 erigeron, the acetate of lead, opium, dilute or aromatic sulphuric acid, and ergot. They act by causing the wounded vessels to contract. The Oleum Erigerontis Canadensis is a nervo-vascular excitant which may be administered in doses of ten or fifteen drops every two or three hours. The plumbic acetate is very widely applicable and efi'ective as an internal haemostatic. Eor such a purpose, the dose of acetate of lead should not be less than two grains every hour; and, generally, it should be combined with opium. As much as five grains every hour has been used successfully, and without damage. Opium proves useful by allaying pain and nervous excitability, as well as by causing vascular contraction. It should be given in small doses at short in- vals, as, for instance, half a grain every two hours. The diluted and the aro- matic sulphuric acid have often been given with good effect for hemorrhages from the portal system, in doses of fifteen drops largely diluted with water, every two or three hours. Ergot is now popular as a haemostatic. The best form of it for administration is the fluid extract, of which thirty or forty drops may be given every half hour until relief is obtained. Surgical Treatment op Hemorrhage. Under this head, the mechanical expedients employed for suppressing hemorrhages will be severally described. They are (1) position, (2) compres- sion, (3) ligation, (4) torsion, (5) constriction, (6) acupressure, (7) aerteri- version, and (8) cauterization. I. Position. On lifting up or raising a thigh-stump after amputation, I have often noticed that the bleeding from the femoral vein generally ceases at once, and that, on depressing it again, the bleeding may recur. Thus by position the force of gravitation may be employed to lessen the tendency of blood to flow from wounded vessels. The wounded part should generally be elevated by placing it upon an inclined plane, or a pillow, or a cushion, of suitable height. This proceeding has considerable value in the treatment of venous hemor- rhage, especially that which occurs in the lower extremity. The position of extreme flexion is worthy of notice, as well as the elevated position. The acute angle in the course of the main artery which the ex- treme flexion of a limb occasions, presents a considerable obstacle of a mecha- nical nature to the flow of blood through the bent artery. This plan has been successfully employed in the treatment of aneurism. It may also be used to restrain hemorrhage from wounds near the hand or foot, and is accomplished by forcibly bending the forearm upon the arm, or the leg upon the thigh, or the thigh upon the abdomen, and so retaining them by several turns of a roller. This position, however, is always uncomfortable, and sometimes intolerable, to the patient, and, therefore, should be employed as a haemostatic only temporarily, or from want of better means. On the occurrence of convulsio syncopalis, or even of syncope from extreme loss of blood, a depressed position of the patient’s head must be constantly preserved until recovery takes place. Moreover, in such cases, the limbs must not be allowed to fall down from the couch, and thus assume a de- pending position, for the sinking of blood into them by the force of gravita- tion would notably increase the cerebral anaemia, and the danger of a fatal issue.