882 ANEURISM. that the aneurism of the ulnar artery was due to embolus, or that any such substance ever got into that artery. I, of course, do not mean to deny that emboli become occasionally lodged in the systemic vessels, but I doubt if they can cause aneurism.1 I do not think that stoppage of the blood stream, even if it were complete, could cause a healthy and uninjured' artery to dilate rapidly into an aneu- rismal swelling. The dilatation, be it observed, must be rapid, for the strain upon the vessel becomes, as in Mr. TufneH’s case, very soon relieved by the development of collateral channels. In the above paragraphs I have endeavored carefully to limit my remarks to systemic vessels—namely, those of the trunk and limbs—excluding visceral arteries; for the matter stands, undoubtedly, very differently in regard to such vessels. The thinly coated arteries of the brain, and in a less degree of the abdominal viscera, are much more easily affected by a centrifugal expan- sile force; they are, too, especially the former, less firmly supported by adja- cent parts. For such reason, they are certainly not very infrequently the subject of embolic aneurism, as was first pointed out in the original and valuable paper of Dr. Kirkes. Numerous instances of cerebral apoplexy from burst aneurism, concurrent with fibrinous concreta from endocarditis, have been recorded,2 while Drs. Ogle and Wilks have described cases of aneurism of the superior mesenteric artery with like association.3 Dr. Pon- fick has written an excellent paper on the subject,4 5 in which he very clearly traces the connection between warty (verrucose) endocarditis and arterial embolus. He gives 6 cases, 4 of which were in the brain, 1 in a small branch of the splenic, 1 in a primary branch of the superior mesenteric artery. The singular prevalence of such aneurisms in the brain is, no doubt, in part accounted for by the curious tendency of floating solids to run up the left carotid; but this does not dispose of the abdominal cases, the fact being that emboli once beyond the aortic arch are just as likely to flow into the iliacs as into the visceral arteries. In the latter thin vessels, they may, if well placed, produce aneurism ; in the former, they cause gangrene, or tendency to gangrene, or a peculiar tingling, painful condition of vessels beyond (see Case IV.), hardly distinguishable from subacute arteritis. It is singular that none of these phenomena were observed in the above cases of supposed embolic aneurism. Atheroma and Ossification.—But these extraneous causes of aneurism— occasional only, and some of them problematical—are less important than certain changes of the arterial coats, which so weaken them as to render their expansion or rupture almost inevitable, or at least extremely facile. This change, either atheroma or ossification, producing a weakening or rigidity of the arterial coats, has been ascribed to different pathological events, and located in various anatomical portions of the tunics. It would lead to little advantage wTere descriptions of all the views held by different writers here detailed. Rokitansky,6 and, following him, Mr. Moore,6 consid- 1 Mr. Holmes says, “that the objection often urged, viz., that aneurisms do not form on arte- ries suddenly obstructed by ligature, is an unsound one, since they do so form, although rarely.” Here I must take leave to differ. When such occurrence takes place, it does so because the middle coat is divided. An impacted embolus can hardly so entirely block the vessel as a liga- ture, nor does it sever the tunics. For some other opinions I must refer to the volume of the Pathological Transactions above quoted. 2 Holmes, Gowers, Goodhart, Ogle : Pathological Transactions, vol. xii. p. 61; vol. xxviii. p. 107 ; vol. xviii. Wilks, Morbid Anatomy. Gull, Guy’s Hosp. Reports, 3d ser. vol. v. 3 Pathol. Trans., vol. viii. p. 168, and vol. xi. p. 44. 4 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. lviii. S. 546. 5 Ueber einige der wichtigsten Krankheiten der Arterien, S. 2. 6 Holmes’-s System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 393.