654 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. its fellow of the opposite side, being carried forward upon the sternum with the displaced head of the clavicle. Careful measurement will show that the shoulder upon the affected side has fallen in somewhat towards the mesial plane of the body. Treatment.—Reduction is effected without serious difficulty. An assistant should place his knee upon the spine in the upper part of the hack, drawing the shoulders firmly backwards with his hands, while the surgeon, standing in front of the patient, forces the projecting end of the bone hack to its place by means of direct pressure. The same result may be accomplished by having two assistants extend the arms powerfully by drawing in opposite directions, while the surgeon presses back the dislocated extremity as before. In the treatment of this dislocation, the chief difficulty arises not in effect- ing, but in maintaining, the reduction. The bone lies so insecurely upon the narrow facet which it occupies on the sternum, that when once its ligament- ous attachments are broken away, it has an inevitable tendency to slip out of its position. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 553) shows the apparatus devised by Sir-Astley Cooper for the after-treatment of these cases. Other surgeons, such as Dr. Folts, prefer to employ an axillary pad to act as a fulcrum, using the arm as a lever to keep the shoulder pried away from the body, and binding the elbow firmly against the side. A compress is placed over the sternal extremity of the clavicle, and a figure-of-8 bandage applied across the shoulders. There is no authority for an invari- able rule of procedure in these cases, and that method must be chosen which seems best adapted by trial to the case in hand. The attempt to maintain reduction often fails in the hands of the most emi- nent surgeons. Even the celebrated Desault, who claimed complete suc- cess with his apparatus for retaining this bone in place, after reduction, is known in reality to have had a number of failures, and the same apparatus has proved very inefficient in the hands of all others who have employed it. Hamilton, in eleven cases under his observation, did not witness one instance of reduction being successfully maintained. Dr. Gross suggests the fastening of the bone in place by silver wire; but as this operation must of necessity create disease of the sterno-clavicular articulation, with the possibility of suppuration and caries in spite of the most absolute antiseptic protection, it cannot be considered appropriate. When the surgeon’s appliances do succeed in maintaining the reduction, they should be worn continuously by the patient for five or six weeks, in order that firm union of the broken ligaments may be secured. But when, as usually happens, these efforts fail, the patient may have his liberty much earlier. Experience proves that when the head of the bone does not remain reduced, it nevertheless acquires a firm attachment in its new position, so that the shoulder is, ultimately, nearly if not quite as strong and useful as before. In a young girl, in whom the altered position of the shoulder and the Sir Astley Cooper’s apparatus for dislocated clavicle.