6 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL rest, as absolute as may be, aided by compression. In hypertrophy of the tongue, partial ablation is at times required. Macroglossa, however, is very rarely due to actual increase in number and size of the muscular fibres, but generally to great over-growth of the lymphatics and bloodvessels of the part, with more or less hyperplasia of the connective tissue. A few cases have been observed of “ progressive muscular hypertrophy of adults” (Benedikt), mostly affecting “the upper extremity, and, as a rule, only one,”, and confined to one side when in the lower extremity. The greatly enlarged muscular fibres have, in certain cases, been found capable of doing much work for a short time, though soon tiring; while in other cases the actual strength of the muscle has been lessened rather than increased. Atrophy of Muscle.—Atrophy of muscle may be either simple or de- generative, there being in all cases a diminution in the size of the muscular fibres, and corresponding lessening of the muscles themselves, except in the comparatively rare instances in which atrophy is masked by excessive fat development. This change may be consequent upon either disuse, nerve- lesion, injury of a bone or joint in close proximity to the muscle, disease of spinal or cerebral location—atrophy, however, rarely occurring in the latter, unless the pons be the seat of the affection—or some constitutional malady, attended with a depraved or poisoned state of the blood. In simple atrophy there is found only a diminished size of the primitive fibre, no change occurring in the connective tissue except in very pronounced cases. Such is the form of atrophy usually declared to be met with as the result of muscular repose or disuse. It is questionable, however, whether simple disuse produces any real muscular atrophy. Certain it is, that when the cessation of voluntary movement does not depend upon some injury of joint, bone, or nerve, even though iff be very prolonged, there is often no resulting diminution in the size of the muscular elements; and in the great majority of cases of disuse, the atrophy is without doubt reflex in its character. Simple atrophy is found also in a considerable proportion of cases of nerve injury; in a majority of those of fracture and dislocation of the vertebral column, in which death does not early occur; in vertebral caries; and in lesions confined to the brain. It is the form most usually met with in cases of infantile paralysis and of progressive muscular atrophy. Much more interesting from a pathological point of view, and of much more importance, clinically considered, are the atrophies accompanied by degenerative changes. These may be either granular, pigmentary, fatty, or waxy. Granular Degeneration.—In this form of degeneration, which is not infre- quently associated with the fatty, the muscle-fibre is found to have lost its clearly defined striation, and the sheath to be occupied with a number, greater or less according to circumstances, of granules of varying size and of albu- minoid character. By some regarded as simply a passive change, due to causes outside of the muscle, it has by others been considered as the result of inflammation; in fact, simply the cloudy swelling of the early stages of that process. Pigmentary Degeneration.-—Pigmentary degeneration, as its name would indicate, is characterized by the presence of dark pigment granules within the sarcolemma, such deposit in the muscles of the human subject, other than the cardiac, being always pathological, and often found in connection with the atrophies consequent upon cachectic conditions, upon much diminished food supply, and upon the marasmus of old age. It is as yet undetermined