INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 624 three or four centimetres (1 to 1| inches) of the sciatic nerve, which he has replaced by a piece of the sciatic nerve from a rabbit, sutured at both of its extremities. The chickens thus operated upon walked as well as those upon which direct suture of the sciatic had been practised, while section of the sciatic without suture or autoplasty produced a paralysis of this nerve which was still complete at the end of ten weeks. This procedure is yet in the domain of physiology. When the separation of the ends of the nerve is considerable, and they cannot be brought in contact, the tubular suture of Gluck and Vaulair may be tried. The aim of this is to prevent the oblitera- tion of the space which separates the two segments by the interposition of a Heuber’s osseine tube. Gluck has only obtained negative results, but Vaulair has seen, he says, after a delay of four months, the regeneration of a nerve-trunk measuring five centimetres (2 inches). He has determined that the regeneration is effected by centrifugal granulations arising from the central end, as has likewise been shown by the labors of Eichhorst, Ranvier, and Hahn. He adds that a small portion only of the new fibres unite with the degenerated fibres of the peripheral end. Results.—The suture of nerves favors cicatrization and hastens the pro- cess of regeneration of the peripheral end, but it does not preyent degenera- tion from beginning; in a word, immediate union of a nerve is impossible, even with the suture.1 Cases of rapid regeneration, in eight or fifteen days, have been observed only in very young animals, and never in man (Letievant). Such is to-day the opinion of the great majority of authors, and we need not recall here all the objections that have been made to the alleged examples of immediate union of nerves, which have been, set forth in connection with wounds of nerves. The immediate union of nerves without degeneration of the peripheral end is, however, defended by some modern authors, among whom may be named Schitf, Gluck of Berlin, Wol- herg of Warsaw, Batowetzki, and Paget. This operation was at first accused, especially theoretically, of predisposing to tetanus and to inflammatory complications of the wound, but experience seems to have proved the complete harmlessness of nerve-suture. Eulenberg and Landois have, however, observed, after experimental suture of nerves, intense neuritis with deep suppuration, and even purulent infection. The value of these results is much impaired by the fact that these experimenters operated upon rabbits, animals in which suppuration occurs with the greatest ease. The fact should, however, be taken into consideration, since, as Tripier has well remarked, it might perhaps he the same with man in certain conditions. Clinical Observations.—The cases of nerve-suture which I have collected from authors, number eleven, and belong to Nelaton, Laugier, Hulke, Richet, Yerneuil, Letievant, Kraussold (two), Busch (two), and Herbert Page. Among these eleven cases, two only are given as unsuccessful; they are the two cases of Letievant, which relate to complicated cases in which nerve-auto- plasty with flaps was resorted to; but in examining the other nine, it is seen that four only can be considered as certain successes; they are those of Hulke, Richet, Kraussold, and Verneuil. That of the last surgeon is particu- larly interesting, and constitutes an actual experiment; in fact, the median and ulnar nerves were divided, and the median, which alone was sutured, 1 At least the immediate union of the nerve fibres among themselves ; hut as regards the im- mediate union of the ends of the nerve by means of the peripheral and interstitial connective- tissue, thi6 is possible, and should, I think, he sought for.