INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. some great artery; when he succumbs to the bleeding from a femoral aneu- rism ; wThen he is wounded in the chest or abdomen, and some large vessel is pouring out a great stream, the blood circulating at large, in place of being forced onward by the contractions of the arteries, runs backward toward the hole in the wounded artery from all parts of the body. The arteries no longer push forward the contents of the veins; the blood ceases to flow toward the heart; the heart itself ceases to act; and the countenance assumes, as in asphyxia, a livid tinge from the stagnation of venous blood. The face becomes, all at once, deadly pale, the circle round the eyes is livid, the lips are black, and the extremities are cold. The patient faints, revives, and faints again, with a low and quivering pulse; he has nausea, and his voice disappears. There is an anxious and incessant tossing of the arms, with restlessness, which is the most fatal sign of all. He tosses continually from side to side; his head falls down in the bed; at times he suddenly raises his head, gasping for breath, with inexpressible anxiety; the tossing of the limbs continues; he draws long, convulsive sighs; the pulse flutters and intermits with the breathing, more and more, and he expires. The counten- ance has not the translucent pallor which is mentioned above, but the clayey and leaden hue which painters represent in those who are assassinated or killed in battle. (John Bell.) I can further unite with this graphic writer in stating, from my own personal observation, that the incessant tossing of the limbs, which is commonly represented as the sign of a fatal wound, is, in- deed, so infallible a sign of death that I have never known any one to re- cover from hemorrhage who exhibited this condition of indescribable rest- lessness. But some of the symptoms require additional mention. During syncope from hemorrhage, the act of breathing is very feeble, and performed by the diaphragm alone. After syncope, an attack of vomiting often attends the return of consciousness. At the same time, as the heart resumes its functions* contracting feebly at first, but afterwards with frequency and occasionally even with violence, the pulse becomes quick, jerking, soft, and easily com- pressible, the tube of the artery itself being large, not tense, and contracting very imperfectly after each small wave of blood has shot through it, thus con- stituting the so-called hemorrhagic pulse. If, instead of bounding and jerking and thrilling, the pulse is feeble and soft, perhaps barely perceptible, after reaction from syncope, it is almost certain that further loss of blood can be prevented by moderate measures. Hemorrhagic Fever.—After great losses of blood, a condition of body char- acterized by a tendency to febrile movement, with great irritability of the heart and arteries, is apt to set in. It is so-called “irritative fever,” combined with anaemia. The quantity of blood in the system being but small, the heart and arteries make violent efforts to supply the deficiency by hurrying what blood there is forward. Hemorrhagic fever, so-called, is marked by the symptoms of great loss of blood, alternating with periods of vascular excite- ment, the pulse becoming much hurried, fluttering, jerking, and irregular in force and frequency; slight flushings of the face with brilliancy of the eyes appear, rapidly passing again into pallor and syncope; and if, at last, the- hemorrhage prove fatal, delirium and convulsions, with extreme restlessness,, usually precede the end. (Erichsen.) The symptoms which attend hemor- ragic fever are those of high or inordinate excitation without strength; they ought never to be mistaken for those of inflammation, for they are not attended with increment of the body-heat. Wandering of the mind, or delirium, is often present in cases of so-called hemorrhagic fever. It is never violent, but generally of a low muttering character, and is best treated by administering nutrients and stimulants.