660 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. sure with the thumbs upon the projecting bone caused it to slip with a palpable, though not an audible “ click,” into its socket, where it seemed disposed to remain while the patient kept his head bent and his shoulder elevated, but whence it was seen to slip upon slight change of position. With a four-tailed bandage, applied as for a fractured clavicle, the elbow was pushed upward and the forearm drawn across the body, so that the fingers reached the tip of the opposite shoulder. That portion of the bandage which encircled the body, was tightly drawn, and was made wide enough to bind the lower part of the scapula tightly to the thorax. A broad band was carried directly over the injured shoulder from front to back, and beneath this was placed a soft but thick pad of folded, surgeon’s lint, with a layer of cotton batting next to the skin, covering three and a half inches of the outer end of the bone. From first to last no pain or ulceration was caused by this pad. The tip of the elbow did become sore, and, after the first week, had to be relieved from pressure and kept covered with antiseptic cerate and gutta-percha tissue. Some other abrasions upon the outer surface of the arm -were daily dressed and protected in the same way, and powerful pressure of the bandages over the dressing seemed in no way to retard their healing. The bandages were worn for four weeks, after which a broad band of adhesive plaster, with fan-shaped extremities, was passed across a small compress over the luxated bone, and was worn for two weeks longer. Union of the ligaments then seemed complete, and the dressings were removed. After three months no relapse had occurred, and there was no visible deformity. In all cases there must he firm compression upon the flat extremity of the clavicle, and some means of raising the scapula by supporting the elbow. An excellent appliance for this and some other injuries about the shoulder is Folts’s dressing, which consists of a strong band passing over the top of the shoulder, and buckled at its ends to a sling which incloses the flexed elbow. Still another method which has been successful, is to use a long elastic band, applied in the form of a species of figure-of-8, whose crossing is upon the com- press over the head of the bone, one loop being beneath the elbow on the affected side, and the other beneath the opposite axilla. The horizontal position in bed undoubtedly favors most perfect retention, and is of itself sufficient in some cases to insure success. This may often be a valuable aid in cases of young women, where it is of great importance to secure recovery without visible deformity. It is to be remembered that the skin covering the acromial end of the bone is rather intolerant of pressure, as it is also at the point of the elbow. Ulceration from pressure occurring at these points often defeats the surgeon’s best efforts. When this occurs, the ultimate result is not serious as to the usefulness of the arm, but a slight prominence remains over the acromion process. Dislocation Downward.—Downward dislocations of the acromial end of the clavicle are very rare, only five cases having been published. The injury seems to have been caused by violence exerted downward upon the clavicle. The most prominent symptom is the changed location of the head of the bone, easily felt under the skin. The treatment, as far as can be inferred from the recorded cases,'should consist in drawing the shoulders outward and back- ward, by which reduction is effected. The bone has been found well disposed to retain its place when reduced. In order to insure retention, a broad band- age should be placed around the body beneath the axilla, to bind the scapula firmly to the thorax. When the lower extremity of the shoulder blade is thus compressed against the chest wall, the coracoid process will project well forward under the collar bone, and will effectually prevent its redisplacement. Dislocation of the Scapular End of the Clavicle beneath the Coracoid Process.—This rare accident appears six times only in surgical literature. A fall upon the shoulder has been the cause in each instance. The symp- toms are very well marked, there being a deep depression at the outer end