445 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. above and below, there being thus three bands in the space of an inch or a little more; this was a severe test, yet the wound healed by the first inten- tion, and nothing has since been heard of the ligatures. The brachial artery of a child, aged nine, was tied on the 19 th of June, 1881, by my house surgeon, Mr. Taylor, for consecutive traumatic aneurism of the ulnar artery near the wrist. The ligature used was Ihe stoutest carbolized catgut prepared. Ex- actly a week after, hemorrhage occurred both at the operative wound and from the aneurism. I examined the former, and found the knot of the ligature lying upon the vessel, but quite loose, the loop having entirely disappeared. The vessel was divided through about one-third of its circumference. I re-lig- atured with ox aorta ribbon above and below. No bleeding occurred after- wards, and though the wounds had to heal by granulation and suppuration, and though the operation was not antiseptic, nothing was afterwards seen of the ligatures, and the child did perfectly well.1 At present it is not quite possible to say what ultimately becomes of these ligatures made from.animal fibres. Mr. Lister’s first idea was that they became organized,2 but he has since energetically repudiated this view ; pro- bably his denial is correct with regard to catgut, because that material is to a certain extent putrefied, but fresh substances— kangaroo or whale tendon, and vascular coats—do I believe become organized and become part of the body into which they are inserted, for vessels form within them.3 The occurrence most dreaded after deligation of an artery is hemorrhage at the site of ligature. A non-absorbable cord which must divide the artery in order to come away, evidently exposes the patient to this risk. An organi- zable or absorbable material, if it properly fulfil its object, ought to exempt from this danger, but records which will be presently given show that this is by no means the case with catgut, nor do I think that any form 'of ligature which severs the middle coat of the vessel can be entirely safe. The treatment of secondary hemorrhage at the place of deligation is not by any means always successful; sometimes a simple pad and bandage suffice to arrest the bleeding, but often the choice of a suitable mode of treatment presents great difficulties. This variability depends on the proximity of the vessel to the heart, on its calibre, on the size of the rent in it, on the number and volume of branches given off immediately above and below the point of ligation, and on the freedom of their inosculation, whereon in great measure the length and steadfastness of the thrombic clot depends. The freedom of inosculation is an important factor, since the bleeding not infrequently comes from the part of the vessel beyond the ligature.4 The treatment must in part depend upon the situation of the tied vessel, in part on the amount and rate of bleeding. It is plain that if an artery within or close to the trunk be the seat of hemorrhage, our resources are more 1 Lancet, July 30, 1881. 2 Ligature of Arteries on the Antiseptic System. 3 Space will not permit me to follow here the different views held regarding this organiza- tion, this coming to life again, of tissues taken from a dead animal and translated into a living body. Mr. Dent (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lxiv. p. 231, and Lancet, March 26, 1881) has shown very clearly that the kangaroo tendon becomes vascularized, and hence we may suppose that it is nourished ; and I have had the opportunity of showing several remains of ox aorta ligature at different dates, the oldest, at fifteen months, being inseparably mixed with the surrounding tissues. (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lxiv. p. 225, and Lancet, March 12, 1881.) The contention as to whether the actual elements of the materials remain or are replaced by new ones, appears to me unimportant. The latter is the fate in the animal economy of all used tissues, yet the whole organ, though interstitially changed, remains the same. A muscle for instance, after much use, even though a great part of its sarcous elements may have become effete and have been replaced, is substantially the same and not a new muscle. I have no doubt that many fibre-cells of the organic ligatures are changed for others ; but as a whole the material must be considered as per- sistent. But, as my cases show, these ligatures ultimately diminish in bulk like any other part of the body when their function is fulfilled. 4 This is nearly always the condition of secondary hemorrhage after tying the subclavian.