GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 181 appear to be doing well, but the left hand, forearm, and lower part of arm have become much swollen and dark in color. No pulsation in brachial, radial, and ulnar arteries.- May 28—The gangrene is still progressing, and the mortified tissues of the forearm are exulcerating. June 1—The gangrene is limited at middle of arm. The gunshot wounds look well, but still the patient is obviously failing; he is emaciated; appetite poor; tongue dry; some diarrhoea. He continued to sink, and on June 6 he died. At the autopsy, the axillary artery was found completely divided by the bullet, and its two ends retracted or separated two inches from each other. Both ends were securely plugged up. The axillary vein and the brachial plexus of nerves were not wounded. Although this patient’s general condition was so bad that amputation did not seem justifiable at any time after gangrene appeared, still, on reviewing the case now, I am inclined to think that the operation might have somewhat improved his chance of recovery, especially if it had been performed in the upper part of the arm as soon as the gangrene presented itself in the hand. This plan of treatment I now recommend, and shall hereafter follow, namely, that, when gangrene occurs in consequence of division or obstruction of the axillary artery, amputation is to he practised in the upper third of the arm as soon as the hand is attacked. The hemorrhage not unfrequently ceases spontaneously in cases where the axillary artery is divided in wounds made by musket, carbine, or pistol- balls. I shall relate another example which came under my own observation, in speaking of traumatic aneurism. The elder Larrey reported the case of General Dulong, who was wounded in the right axilla by a small-arm projectile. Although there was scarcely any hemorrhage, there was good reason to believe that the axillary artery had been divided. Dr. James M. Holloway1 records a case in which a minie-ball passed through the left axilla from behind forward, crossing the track of the axillary artery. The bleeding ceased spontaneously, although there is good reason to believe that the artery was severed. That which was found on autopsy to have occurred in Hudson’s case, related above, shows how the natural haemostasis may succeed in such cases. The tunics at each end of the divided artery retract, recurve, and contract, whereby the orifices become much smaller, and a secure lodgment is afforded for the occluding plugs of clotted blood. “M. Verneuil communicated to the Surgical Society of Paris five cases of injuries of large arteries by balls and pieces of shell, in which hemorrhage was arrested spontaneously. The performance of primary amputation allowed the state of the vessels to be examined. The arterial coats were divided throughout on the same level as if they had been cut by a knife, and clots extended for some way above the divided ends of the vessels. In two of the cases the posterior tibial and the popliteal were the injured vessels.”2 In the following example the brachial artery was severed in a wound made by a musket-ball. The primary bleeding was so slight as to escape mention. Eighteen days afterward secondary hemorrhage supervened, and was perma- nently arrested by securing both ends of the severed artery with ligatures. Private W. J. Beverley, Co. C, 17th Maine Yols., aged 27, was admitted to Stanton Hospital May 23,1864, on account of secondary hemorrhage from a gunshot wound of his right arm, with which he had been attacked in the streets of Washington while on his way homeward on furlough. On May 5, at the battle of the Wilderness, a musket- ball had penetrated his right arm just above the flexure of the elbow, and, passing behind the biceps muscle, had escaped on the inner side of the arm, without injuring the bone or causing much loss of blood. The secondary hemorrhage was arrested by pressure applied to the seat of injury. On the evening of the 24th, however, it returned. The brachial artery was then cut down upon at the seat of injury, and found completely 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1865, pp. 352, 353. 2 Gaz. Med., Juillet 22, 1871, and New Syd. Soc. Biennial Retrospect, 1871, 1872, pp. 263, 264.