LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 167 The arm case contained in Gurlt’s statistical table was reported by Perus- sault, and the patient recovered. There was crushing (zerschmetterung) of the external condyle of the right humerus, of the olecranon, of the radius, and of the ulna. The following arm case was under Mr. Moore’s care at the Middlesex Hospital, and is of special value in this connection, because it illus- trates the subject much better than many words of abstract description:— A woman, aged 42, injured her right arm by falling down stairs at night, and pre- sented herself next day. The whole hand and forearm, and part of the upper arm, were tensely swollen and covered with bull* of various, but principally of small size. Serum mixed with blood filled the bullae. Fracture of the olecranon was easily made out, but no other osseous lesion could be detected. On the following day the swelling was larger, and the vesications more extensive. There was an aneurismal pulsation in front of the elbow, strong and expanding, but deeply seated. The impulse extended half-way up the inner side of the arm, and more than half-way down the whole palmar surface of the forearm. A distinct bruit was heard with the stethoscope in front of the elbow. The two arteries at the wrist beat so forward and so forcibly, and appeared so much larger than those of the other side, as to give the idea that they had been raised up by extravasated blood, and that the pulsation was communicated to the distended sheaths of the vessels. The skin on the hand was dusky from congestion; and when the color was expelled by pressure, it returned very slowly, showing the embarrassed condition of the circulation. The limb was everywhere warm, however, and there was no sign of impending gangrene. At the consultations various opinions were expressed as to the appropriate treatment; but it was agreed that some large artery, possibly the brachial, was wounded. It was ultimately decided to watch the case. In the evening, the swelling was found not to have increased, and the hand was certainly less tense. A rounded swelling was found near the armpit, in the neighborhood of the brachial artery, which appeared to be the end of the clot of extravasated blood. On the following day (the third from the accident) pulsation had ceased in all other parts, and was perceptible only in front of the elbow, over a space about as large as a half-crown, and not strong. Next day the aneurismal pulsation disappeared, and the swelling afterward gradually subsided. When the subsidence was sufficient, fracture of the lower end of the humerus was detected. The case did well.1 This case shows that lacerations of healthy arteries, when uncomplicated with external wounds, sometimes show a re- markably strong tendency to recovery. Mr. He Morgan, in a clinical lecture at the Middlesex Hospital, also says: “ We have had, within the last few years, two or three cases of simple fracture where there was a large and rapid effusion of blood beneath the skin, and marked aneurismal pulsation; in which, however, arrest of the hemorrhage ensued spontaneously, and complete absorption took place, although it was clear that a large artery had been torn through.”2 Diffuse traumatic aneurisms, resulting from fractures, when they occur in the thigh or arm, should be treated on exactly the same principles as when they occur in the leg, a thorough discussion of which accidents has just been pre- sented. I must, however, add that examples of this accident occurring in the leg, too, sometimes recover without any special treatment of the arterial lesion. Such a case was under the care of Mr. Mitchell Henry, at the Middle- sex Hospital. The posterior tibial artery was wounded, in a boy who had simple fracture of the leg. The diagnosis rested on the absence of pulsation in that artery and the presence of bruit in the swelling, together with a pecu- liar restlessness of the limb. The fracture healed slowly (in about two months), and these symptoms gradually subsided, but the pulse did not return in the affected artery.3 In such cases it is sometimes said that the arterial wound heals spontaneously; it must- not be forgotten, however, that but few 1 Ibid., pp. 519, 520. 2 British Medical Journal, January 6, 1872. 8 Holmes, System of Surgery, 2d ed. vol. iii. pp. 519, 520.