SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 356 after a bloody excision. The tumor was exceedingly large, and the dilated arteries were tied one by one. More that twenty ligatures were applied, and the hemorrhage is said to have been dangerously profuse. Other surgeons, besides Mussey,1 who have practised excision of cirsoid arterial and other “ vascular tumors,” are Bradley,1 Busch,1 Heine,1 Graefe,2 Gibson,2 Buchanan,3 Sydney Jones,4 Warren,1 Weitzer,2 Gueniot,2 and Hart.2 The latter froze the tumor, and cut wrell into sound tissue; little blood was lost. The late Prof. Spence, of Edinburgh, cured a deep-seated erectile tumor of the hand by galvano-puncture.5 Helaton operated in a cirsoid tumor of the forehead in a similar way, and with like success. Barwell operates upon vascular tumors by wThat is termed the scarless method.6 Having carefully made out the limits of the tumor, a needle armed with a silver wire is passed under the skin, and subcutaneously around the outskirts of the tumor, to a point opposite the place of entrance. The needle is again introduced at the point from which it has just emerged, and is carried around the remainder of the tumor, and out at the first point of entrance. The base of the tumor is thus looped by a wire which can be tightened beneath the skin at will. Barwell uses a slot of vulcanized rubber which he slides down upon the wire to tighten it around the tumor. If the growth be very large, he advises the needle to be brought out at frequent intervals. Direct, local compression has been tried by patient and expert surgeons, but has not met with success. Gosselin7 in his classical paper reports several successful cases in which he employed hypodermic injections of perchloride of iron into the mass. This idea was original with Broca, who applied the styptic endermically with suc- cess. Pitha, of Prague, and Schuh, following Broca, thus cured three cases (Gosselin). Berger8 reports a case of cirsoid aneurism of the hand treated by this method. Velpeau, Gherini, and Demarquay have performed the same operation. In Demarquay’s case, the radial and ulnar arteries had been tied. The method of procedure is as follows: The tumor must be compressed, so that while the circulation ceases the growth remains full of blood. This condition must be maintained for at least ten minutes after the injection. The syringe being filled, the air is carefully excluded, and the needle is introduced about a quarter of an inch into the mass, when the solution is discharged. Kneading, to disseminate the fluid, is then practised, and the finger is placed upon the hole made by the needle, or the needle and syringe may be left in, during the ten minutes. Pain is immediately present, and persists for several hours. After an interval of ten or fifteen days, the operation may be repeated, if necessary. Eight or more operations have been required to effect a final cure. Ulceration may follow, but it is usually limited. At times, unhealthy granulations bud up from these ulcerating patches, requiring repeated burning with nitrate of silver or with the actual cautery. In one of Gosselin’s cases, hemorrhage was so frequent and persistent that deligation of the parent vessel—the. femoral—was at one time considered, but this was happily avoided by repeated use of the actual cautery. Gosselin’s cases were three in number:— Case I Cirsoid Arterial Tumor of the left Leg.—The patient was a woman, aged 25. At birth she had a small red stain or spot in the skin at the upper and anterior 1 See the author’s Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery. New York, 1879. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d ed. vol. iii. p. 540. 3 British Medical Journal, June, 1875, p. 835. 4 Lancet, 1882. 5 Medical Times and Gazette, Aug. 21, 1875, p. 209. 6 Lancet, May 8, 1875, p. 642. 7 Archives Gen. de Medecine, tom. ii. 1867, p. 636-659. 8 Gazette des Hopitaux, 1882, p. 1082.