GANGRENE FROM ARTERIAL AND VENOUS OCCLUSION. 253 the two annexed examples will serve to answer this question, and to illustrate the subject in a useful manner:— A man was wounded in the axilla by a sword, and much blood was instantly lost; a large tumor rapidly filled the axilla, and the man fainted. On the fourth day, the fore- arm was cold, and the skin on it of a yellowish tint; hemorrhage recurred. The tumor increased, and was attended with obscure pulsation; the skin covering it was red and tense. In this state, on the seventh day, the man entered the Hotel-Dieu. Desault laid the swelling open by an incision six inches long, commencing undeimeath the acromial third of the clavicle, and extending downward and outward. A great quantity of ■coagulum, followed by a stream of fresh blood, rushed forth, in spite of the compression which was applied to the subclavian artery above the clavicle. Desault seized the mouth of the artery (it was divided above the origin of the subscapularis) with his finger and thumb, and thus commanded the hemorrhage. The lower as well as the upper end was then ligatured. In the evening, after the operation, obscure pulsation was observed at the wrist, and the limb had in some degree regained its natural heat. The veins on the back of the hand and arm were filled with blood. No doubt existed that the circulation was re-established. On the third day after the operation, suppura- tion had commenced, and sloughs were observed in the wound. On the fourth evening an erysipelatous redness was noted on the forearm. On the next day the temperature of the limb fell, the nails became dark-colored, and purple spots appeared on the arm. On the sixth day after the operation the limb was vesicated and gangrenous, and the patient died.1 In this case, mortification had occurred after the circulation had been re- established through the collateral channels; and must, therefore, have been due to obstruction of those channels, which might readily have resulted from compression caused by infiltration of the connective tissue surrounding them with inflammatory products, that is, from compression caused by inflamma- tory swelling, the inflammatory process having spread from the suppurating and sloughing armpit to the shoulder. Hodgson mentions another example of the same sort:— An officer received a stab-wound of the axillary artery by a sword. He soon fainted, and the hemorrhage ceased. The vessel was ligatured a short distance above the wound. The arm was then cold, and no, pulsation could be felt in its arteries. On the third day, however, the arm was perfectly warm, and its veins were turgid with blood; but on the fourth day gangrene attacked the shoulder, and the patient died in the even- ing. Autopsy—The axillary artery was found completely divided below the origin of the circumflex. The ligature included also three of the brachial nerves. The axillary vein was wounded, but not included in the ligature.2 In this case, also, mortification occurred after the circulation had been perfectly re-established by means of the anastomosing branches or collateral channels at the shoulder. Inasmuch as the appearance of gangrene cannot be accounted for by the lesion of the brachial nerves, it must be ascribed to obstruction of the collateral circulation, which was probably caused by the extension of inflammatory swelling from the wounded armpit to the shoulder. The collateral channels may he dangerously obstructed by pressure exerted upon them from careless bandaging, or by the position in which a limb may be placed, as well as by the compression which arises from cedematous, inflam- matory, and hemorrhagic swelling. The aponeuroses or fascise cause strangu- lation only by acting as unyielding bands. The simultaneous occlusion of the main artery and vein of a limb does not cause mortification, unless the collateral channels are also obstructed. In 1 CEuvres Chirurgicales de Desault, par Bichat, t. ii. p. 553. 2 Op. cit., pp. 355, 356.