INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 612 stitutes the sardonic laugh. The next day, or a few days after, the trismus becomes marked, and the jaws can only be half opened between the paroxysms, which come nearer together; the muscles of the face become involved, and give to the physiognomy the expression of the risus sardonicus, of which we have just spoken. The disease is established, and the generalization of the contraction is brought about, in a nearly determined order; the extensors of the neck contract, causing an embarrassment of the movements of the nucha, which may be more precocious, and which may constitute, with the trismus, one of the initial symptoms; the lower limbs become stiff, adducted and ex- tended ; the contraction of the abdominal muscles hollows and hardens the belly, and the extensors of the vertebral column curve it more or less back- wards, thus producing ,opisthotonos. The upper extremities are spared in mild cases, but invaded more or less rapidly in grave cases; the spasm is then generalized, except as to the diaphragm and muscles of the larynx, upon the integrity of which depends the life of the patient. .Besides this contraction of the muscles, which soon becomes continuous, and is already painful, there are observed, at gradually diminishing intervals, very 'painful paroxysms, which supervene under the influence of the least external excitation, or even without appreciable cause. The contraction of the muscles already attacked is increased, and the spasm seizes the groups still relaxed, those most affected remaining contracted, while the others relapse into resolution until the following crisis; the patient remains silent,or utters inarticulate groans, and sometimes actual cries. Frequently these crises are accompanied with more or less abundant sweat- ings, which are considered as favorable, and which an effort is made to pro- mote, as we shall see hereafter; the patient ordinarily takes with pleasure such food as the spasm of the jaws and of the pharynx permits him to swallow between the crises. Insomnia and constipation are habitual. In regard to the bladder, there is frequently observed dysuria, sometimes complete reten- tion which it is necessary to watch. Cutaneous eruptions have also been described in some cases, but are probably due to the medication with chloral or opium. The intelligence remains habitually perfect until the end; delirium is always a very grave symptom, and often coincides with a high tempera- ture. Death is, unfortunately, the too frequent termination of the disease, but recovery is also possible; we shall recur again to these modes of termination. Varieties.—The form which we have described, and which is the average type of traumatic tetanus, is susceptible of numerous modifications, the prin- cipal of which constitute varieties of tetanus which we shall successively study, and of which the distinctive characters result from (1) the etiology, (2) the mode of onset, (3) the degree of generalization, and, finally (4) the duration of the disease. (1) In accordance with the etiology of the affection, there may be distin- guished traumatic tetanus without wound—consecutive to fractures, luxations, violent contusions, etc.—scarcely distinct from the form already described, but beginning more often by phenomena referred to the seat of injury, and ordinarily slower and more benign; and spontaneous tetanus from cold (a frigore)—so-called rheumatic tetanus—the onset of which may be either sudden or insidious. This may be preceded for from one to eight days by the prodromes of febrile disease, malaise, lassitude, and chills, accompanied by symptoms which should arouse the surgeon’s attention—dysphagia^ten- dency to an exaggerated extension of the limbs and of the trunk, especially at night, and pains along the spine. The beginning of the contraction occurs here also in the elevators of the lower jaw, though ft has been sometimes observed in the lower extremities (Bouchut)'; otherwise the course of this disease differs in nothing from that of traumatic tetanus, but in Europe,