472 ANEUKISM. which was an instance of aneurism by anastomosis, while another, recorded by Dr. Stoker, of Dublin,1 is extremely doubtful, the observer of that case giving no account of symptoms or appearances. I omit both these cases, re- ducing Dr. Fischer’s number to thirty-three. Since 1869, seven cases have been recorded,2 making the number of known cases forty. Besides these, there are two instances of a rather different affection termed ischiadico-popliteal, one example of which was recorded in Guy’s Hospital Reports,3 the other by Gallozzi.4 * In this latter, especially, it is noted that the superficial femoi’al artery was very small, terminating as a little twig just after piercing the ad- ductor magnus. The sciatic artery was large, ran down the back of the thigh with the nerve, and became the popliteal. In these cases the swelling began lower than in those now to be described. The usual aneurism of the buttock forms a tumor, circumscribed or diffused, at the side of that part, and some distance behind the great trochanter ; the swelling may or may not pulsate; it usually has some sound, a whirr or a hum, wThich may in the same case be sometimes present and sometimes absent. The disease is usually accompanied by very considerable pain, not at all confined to the site of tumefaction, but running forward on the dorsum ilii, downward on the back of the thigh and leg, and sometimes into the perineum. Severe cramps of the leg and sole of the foot are a frequent accompaniment. Thus several of the patients have at first complained of,' and without due examination have been treated for, rheumatism, rheumatic gout, sciatica, and even vesical disease. Aneurisms in this locality are very commonly, as we shall see, the result of injury ; hence, they are frequently diffused, even those that were originally circumscribed being very liable to rupture and diffusion. While sacculated, the tumor is rarely larger than a hen’s egg, but one or two have been the size of a child’s head; when diffused, they may attain to any size, and may ex- tend from the top of the ilium a long way down the thigh.8 Diagnosis.—Probably the nature of a rounded, circumscribed, murmuring and pulsating swelling at the side of the buttock, is, in spite of its depth, as easily recognizable as in any other situation; but the disease does not by any means always manifest itself thus, and when there is neither bruit nor pulsa- tion, the diagnosis is undoubtedly difficult, so that many disastrous errors have been made. Aneurism of either the gluteal or sciatic artery is most likely to be confounded with abscess, tumor of bone, and perhaps with sciatic hernia. Abscess in this situation is more common in young persons than in those beyond 25 or 30 years old. It may arise from hip disease, from caries of the lowest lumbar or sacral vertebrae, or from sacro-sciatic disease,6 * as also from suppuration of the subgluteal bursa. A deep, circumscribed abscess in this situation is never a mere localized suppuration, but is combined with, symp- toms of caries at one or the other locality above named, the pus finding its way out of the pelvis along the pyriformis muscle through the sciatic notch. If the abscess be merely in the subgluteal bursa, it has little definition, is more widely diffused, and makes of the nates a sort of bag, which hangs, lower without implicating the thigh than does an aneurism. If doubt remain (and this latter form of abscess may very closely simulate a diffused, non-pulsating 1 Trans, of the Association of Fellows and Licentiates, etc., vol. i. p. 41, 1817. 2 Bickersteth, Kade, Balier, Landi, Coluzzi, Scauffoni, and Gallozzi. 3 Hilton-Fagge, 1864. 4 Lo Sperimentale, Febbrajo, 1874. 5 See John Bell’s cases, and more recently Kade’s case in St. Petersburg Med. Wochenschrift, 1876, No. 89. 6 See the author’s work on Diseases of the Joints, in Wood’s Library of Standard Medical Authors, p. 315, and the article on Joint Disease in this Encyclopaedia.