379 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. holic paralysis, since the poison is in contact with the vascular walls, may affect their muscular fibres sooner than the voluntary organs, thus impairing elasticity and power of resistance. To this subject we must recur. The second class of causes, namely, disturbance in the ratio between blood- pressure and strength of tunics, falls naturally into two subdivisions; the first is increased mass or pressure of the blood, general or local. I am not aware that either the plethora or the high arterial tension that accompanies Bright’s disease has ever been shown to be directly productive of aneurism; and I must say the same of hypertrophy of the left ventricle.1 Aortic aneurism and ventricular hypertrophy are frequently coexistent; but either may cause the other, and the walls of the vessel are in such cases very rarely if ever healthy. It is certain that any circumstance which increases the propulsive action of the heart, must in so far conduce to aneurism; but that “ in so far” goes very little way, unless the cardiac over-action he assisted by a vis a froute; the force of the heart alone is unable to produce aneurism unless of a very diseased artery. This vis a fronte may be supplied by violent muscular efforts pre- venting capillary ingress; by over-tight clothing ; by an infelicitous posture at the moment of exertion, suddenly occluding the artery; or perhaps by the impaction of an embolus. Muscular Effort.—The effect of over-exertion is well known ; a simple act of this kind may produce the first distension or rupture of the middle coat, very slight perhaps, which repeated similar efforts may afterwards increase. The greater prevalence of aneurism in the male than in the female sex is the result of the hard muscular exertions more frequent among mem- bers of the former. Constriction by Clothing, etc.—The effect of over-tight clothing is well exemplified by the prevalence of aneurism in the army. Mr. Myers has ■shown,2 I think, conclusively that this prevalence is due not as is often asserted to syphilis, but to.over-tight uniforms, especially to the stock; for syphilis and over-exertion are equally common in the navy—but aneurism is per 1000 men 131 times more frequent in the former than in the latter ser- vice.3 The effect of constriction on the neck or limbs must be a certain obstruction to the blood-stream along the vessels, and also a hindrance to elastic yielding of the arteries to different postures; so that sometimes the coats will be stretched lengthwise, perhaps to their uttermost, while a large wave expands them centrifugally. The frequency of aneurism on the flexor side of much-used joints has been often noticed, and has been ascribed to the frequently produced sharp curve in the artery—obstructing the blood-current by the vis a fronte just mentioned. It must, however, be observed that this peculiarity is much more marked in the lower than in the upper limb, although the flexed posture is quite as often assumed in the latter as in the former; therefore position can hardly be the apparent cause, and a case about to be quoted tends to refute the theory, also often advanced as an addition to the posture hypothesis, of a greater mus- cular power and exertion of the lower limb. Popliteal aneurism is very frequently double, and not much less frequent is its recurrence, after cure on 1 The word directly is used in the text because there is little doubt, as will be seen in the sequel, that excess of blood pressure may, by inducing certain forms of arterial disease, indirectly conduce to aneurism. 2 Lancet, Feb. 20, 1869. 3 This subject will be further mentioned presently.