46 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. as well as the cases just mentioned. For instance, bleedings from the nose which necessitate the operation of plugging the nostrils; bleeding from ulcerations of the tonsils which penetrate the internal carotid artery, and make necessary the ligation of that vessel or its parent trunk; bleedings from abscesses which lay open the arterial canals of any part; bleedings from aneurisms about to burst, which can he controlled, if at all, only by surgical procedures, etc. Moreover, there are good reasons why these, too, should he called surgical hemorrhages ; for they are, in fact, examples of surgical affec- tions attended by bleedings that require surgical treatment. The term sur- gical hemorrhage, then, properly belongs to all bleedings that result from injuries, from surgical operations, and from surgical diseases, which need surgical treatment; and the expression should he strictly used to convey these ideas. "When employed for this purpose, the phrase surgical hemorrhage is oftentimes very convenient and useful. Importance of the Subject.—Notwithstanding the importance of “shock,” hemorrhage is the most serious of all the complications attending wounds in general. More lives are lost from it, either directly or indirectly, than from all the other consequences combined, that flow from such injuries. Of the slain in battle during our War of the Rebellion, I can testify from personal observation that a very large share, about one-half I think, but possibly even more than that, perished by hemorrhage from wounds of the large blood- vessels of the neck, chest, abdomen, groin, etc., or from wounds involving vital organs like the brain and lungs, the bleeding whereof caused deadly compression of these organs, before succor could be afforded. In a great many wounds, the first thing needed is to stop the bleeding. In wounds generally, the symptom which most alarms the bystanders, the patient himself, and too often the surgeon also, is hemorrhage, and frequently it de- mands immediate attention. But to operate successfully for this complication, the surgeon must divest himself of all fear, “ and learn to look boldly on the open mouths of arteries.” This terse saying of Robert Liston should be graven on the memory of every one who aspires to become a surgeon. Now, it is highly befitting to know, and also to tell, how the student of surgery may divest himself of all fear in the presence of hemorrhages that are great, and by what means he may learn to look boldly on the open mouths of arte- ries that are large. Such spectacles naturally appal, and stupefy, and paralyze men, unless their minds have been so strengthened and prepared by special training and forethought that they can view them intelligently, and to some extent, also, consider them as experiments on the living human animal, accidentally performed, which nevertheless should be calmly and accurately noted, for the advancement of our knowledge. By special train- ing and fore-thinking, then, the surgeon may acquire self-reliance to witness any hemorrhage without dismay, and to look on the open mouths of any arteries with complete self-possession. But to reach this end, his training must be continued until he gets an accurate and ready knowledge of the sur- gical anatomy of the bloodvessels; a complete knowledge of the symptoms and prognostics of hemorrhage itself; a thorough understanding of Nature’s own haemostatics ; and, finally, a perfect acquaintance with the haemostatics devised by surgical art. Amussat indeed thought that, in order to know how to arrest a hemorrhage, it was necessary to have tied the arteries in animal vivi- sections. The surgeon’s fore-thinking should largely consist in scrutinizing the reported cases of hemorrhage in all regions of the body, in ascertaining the causes of success or failure, and in considering them with a view to de- vise, if possible, better plans of treatment; for reported cases of hemor- rhage are, in reality, accounts of accidents which are liable to occur again.