SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 415 without good result; he introduced six needles, each pair crossing in the sac, and left them for four days. In his paper he says that Mr. Marshall has on more than one occasion thus produced temporary clotting to a considerable extent. Constantin Paul1 also employed needles, but kept them in only fifteen minutes on one day, and, after three days interval, one and a half hours; and then, after three weeks, repeated the same two punctures. The benefit was, he affirms, very considerable. Bacelli2 advocates the introduction of very fine watch-springs which he believes would provoke coagulation, and then become oxidized and pulverized, and strengthen the clot, but his two cases terminated fatally without any apparent benefit. Thus a great number of substances have been introduced, some of which are not even here named. No surgeon would choose , such treatment if any more efficacious and more direct means were applicable, but in certain cases, when nothing else could be effected, some foreign substance might be em- ployed ; I should, however, strongly deprecate the use of iron wire, horse-hair, or such coarse solids, pushed irrecoverably into the body of the aneurism; none of the patients on whom this was done lived long afterward; of course, some clot was found about the coils, but inflammation, suppuration, or even bursting of the sac are all complications to be considered. Galvano-puncture.—Electrolysis or galvano-puncture, as the method may indifferently be called, was introduced into England by Benjamin Phillips, in 1829, as an improvement on Everard Home’s idea of coagulating the blood of an aneurism by means of heated needles. But his proposition met with no consideration. Shortly afterwards, in France, M. Alphonse Guerard suggested to M. Pravaz the same idea,3 and that physician, accepting it with enthusiasm, established the method, which has been carried out and perfected more especially by Ciniselli,4 and in England by Duncan, Fraser, Poore, and. Althaus. It is thus to be carried out. The battery must be of large tension and small intensity, that is, should have a goodly number of small elements ; the machine of Stohrer, or the Leclanche battery as arranged by M. Foveaux,5 6 answers very well, or better still, since in it the amount of immersion can be regulated, the Foveaux-Smee arrangement. There should be either several—from four to six—very thin needles arranged in a lash on a subdivided conducting cord, or one steel needle, on a single or on both poles; in either case, the needles must be well insulated down to a short distance from the point. Thus far all are agreed; but beyond this the galvanists differ—one choosing to insert the negative, another the positive, a third both poles; if one only be inserted, the other ought to be applied to the skin, but not over the sac, by means of a wet sponge. From the negative pole, especially if used alone, a froth composed of gas bubbles suspended in a very soft, loose clot is formed. From the positive, a firmer, blackish, but small clot is produced, and there is also formed® a black fluid, which appears to be produced in considerable quantity, in appearance and consistence like thin tar. If a patient is to be subjected to this treatment (and I need hardly say that 011I3-' internal aneu- risms—scarcely any other than intrathoracic—are suited for its adoption), he must be in bed and semi-recumbent, and should not have chloroform or ether, 1 Gazette des Hopitaux, No. 54, 1879. 2 Bulletin de l’Acadfimie de Medecine, 1878. 3 Lettre de M. Pravaz sur l’Acupuncture de M. Velpeau. Gazette Medicate de Paris, Janvier 8, 1831. 4 Sulla elettro-puntura nelta cura degli Aneurismi, 1856, and a later, 2d edition. 6 Of the 'well-known firm of Weiss. 6 Dr. John Duncan. British Medical Journal, May 20, 1876.