548 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. it is sufficient to refer to the results of physiological experimentation already quoted, hearing in mind the differences which always exist in pathological cases. The first symptom in severe compression is the pain, which generally occurs immediately, and extends throughout the entire territory to which the injured nerve is distributed; it may continue several hours or even days, accompanied or followed by formication, hyperesthesia, numbness, and finally motor paralysis, which may also occur at the outset when the com- pression is sudden and violent, or when it is produced during sleep, as, for example, in the case of radial paralysis. There is also met with, but less frequently, a more or less complete loss of general or spinal sensibility. After a variable period, the pain, formication, and paralysis successively disappear, sensation returning simultaneously with or before the power of motion. If the compression has been sufficiently severe, this period of repa- ration may be preceded by a slow atrophy. A constant sensation of cold in the paralyzed part has also been observed, being met with especially in the severe cases. The electro-muscular contractility, according to Guenot, may be abolished, diminished, or intact. In the compression of nerves caused by the head of the crutch, studied by Laferon and by myself, the numbness and paralysis progress from the distal extremity of the limb towards its proximal end; their course is usually slow, but the paralysis may occur suddenly after a violent effort, and it is almost always only in the territory of the radial nerve that these disturb- ances occur; in these cases there is at times paralysis of the sensitive fibres of the nerve, the condition differing in this respect from the so-called rheu- matic radial paralysis. The nerve next most often compressed by the crutch- head is the ulnar. This variety of paralysis, however, is seldom grave; and Laferon reports only one case of secondary atrophy, and that occurring in a child which presented some doubtful signs of infantile paralysis. Slow compression of nerves may be produced by the development of tumors, especially of malignant tumors which involve the cellular sheath, and undergo secondary contraction. The nerve-fibres may also be compressed by the development of a tumor in the thickness of the nerve (neuroma). But the most frequent causes of this variety of compression are seated in the spinal canal, and consequently act upon the roots of the nerves. These are tumefac- tions, either meningeal (sarcoma, psammoma, echinococcus, internal pachy- meningitis), or extra-meningeal and developed in the cellulo-adipose tissue of the canal (carcinoma, sarcoma, hydatid cyst, abscess), or finally vertebral (Pott’s disease, cancer of the vertebrae). The peculiar symptoms of slow compression, according to Tripier, are nu- tritive changes, affecting especially the muscles, without sensory phenomena of any kind; but clinically they are almost always accompanied by the symptoms of neuritis, or, at least, of nerve irritation, determined by the pro- longed compression. When the cause of the compression is seated in the spinal canal, the cord is more or less rapidly affected; but generally the symptoms of nerve compression show* themselves first, and remain isolated for a certain period before the appearance of symptoms referable to the medulla. Compression of the nerve-root3 manifests itself by three kinds of phenomena: pain, paralysis, and trophic disturbances. The pain is peripheral, and affects the territory supplied by the compressed nerve, constituting pseudo-neuralgia. It is usually permanent, with exacerbations, caused especially by movements. This pain may be accompanied with hyperaesthesia of the skin, particularly at the beginning. At a more advanced period the painful anaesthesia of authors