565 PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. knote phenomena* the phenomena of irradiation, which are dependent upon the reflex effect of the injury upon the nerve-centres. The symptoms of the first class are evidently dependent upon the alterations undergone by the peri- pheral end, degeneration of nerve-fibres, and, in certain cases, more or less marked interstitial inflammation. The pathogeny of the disturbances of the second class is more obscure; they are attributed to the ill-understood modifications which occur in the central end, and which may extend to a greater or less height, and even to the nerve-centres themselves. I. Peripheral Disturbances.—To this group belong the disturbances of sensibility, motility, and nutrition, which are observed in the territory of the injured nerve ; we will study them in succession. (1) Sensdry Disturbances.—The first symptom experienced in consequence of an injury of a nerve is an acute pain, the characters of which vary ; some- times there are shooting pains, radiating along the whole course of the injured nerve; at other times there are smarting sensations, numbness, or tingling. In gunshot wounds the pain may be absent, perhaps overlooked in the special conditions of excitement in which the wounded are placed. In ninety-one cases recorded by Weir Mitchell, more than one-third of the patients had felt nothing at the moment of injury. Be this as it may, this primary pain should be distinguished from the phenomena of hyperesthesia which supervene at the end of a certain time, and which Weir Mitchell has admirably described under the name of causal- gia. The sensation of burning pain which constitutes causalgia, is of an extreme intensity; patients compare it to the pain produced by a sinapism, a blister, or a red-hot iron, applied upon the denuded derm. This pain occupies as its seat of predilection the palmar surface of the hand, and the dorsal surface of the foot; it is generally accompanied by a glossy condition and a redness of the skin, which belong to the class of nutritive disturbances. The affected parts are exquisitely sensitive; the least touch, or the slightest grazing, awakens the sensation of burning and provokes a paroxysm of atrocious suffering; Weir Mitchell attributes the causalgia to an alteration of the extremities of the sensory fibres, due to disturbances of the circulation and nutrition consecutive to the irritation of the injured nerve. But it must not be forgotten that causalgia is observed in neuritis, properly so called—in the brachial neuritis, for example, of cervical Pott’s disease. In the causalgia, then, which follows traumatisms of nerves, especially if this causalgia be accompanied with lancinating pains, a true inflammation of the injured nerve-trunk may be thought of, rather than simple circulatory dis- turbances of irritative origin. The hypersesthesia may be slight, when there are observed, at the same time, tingling, numbness, and formication, along the course of the injured nerve, especially in cases of contusion or compression. If temporary, these disturbances have no gi;eat importance; if they persist, or if they become exaggerated, and complicated with darting pains, the development of an inter- stitial neuritis must again be dreaded. Even in cases where this exaltation of painful sensibility exists, there is at the same time a notable diminution of the tactile sense. Anaesthesia is, in fact, the most constant consequence of nerve-sections. But the distribution as well as the degree of this anaesthesia is very variable. It would appear that, after the section of a nerve, the sensibility should be completely abolished in all the region supplied by that nerve; but this is far from being always the case. In the first place, sensibility may not be destroyed in all its manifestations: