301 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. and lies nearer to the anterior wall of the chest; it is also somewhat larger, that is, greater in circumference, because it is a branch of a branch, instead of being a direct ofishoot from the main trunk. The course of each subclavian artery is divisible, for surgical as well as for anatomical purposes, into three parts marked by the scalenus anticus muscle behind which the vessel passes, namely, the first part, extending from its origin to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus, the second part, lying directly behind the scalenus anticus, and the third part, extending from the outer border of the scalenus anticus to the inferior margin of the first rib. On the right side, the first part ascends obliquely outward to the inner border Fig. 478. Surgical relations of the subclavian artery and subclavian vein. (SSdillot.) A portion of the clavicle has been removed. of the scalenus anticus; on the left side, it ascends longitudinally to the inner border of that muscle. On both sides, the second part curves outward behind the scalenus anticus. On both sides also, the third part passes down- ward and outward beneath the clavicle, to the inferior margin of the first rib, where it becomes the axillary artery. Relations.—On the right side, the first part is in relation, in front, wfith the internal jugular and subclavian veins at their point of junction, and is crossed by the pneumogastric nerve, cardiac nerves, and phrenic nerve. Behind and beneath, it is invested by the pleura; it is also crossed by the right recurrent laryngeal nerve, and by the vertebral vein, and is in relation with the trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. On the left side, the first part is in relation in front with the pleura, the vena innominata, the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves (they run parallel to it), and the left carotid artery. To its inner side lies the oesophagus; to its outer side, the pleura; and, behind, the thoracic duct, longus colli, and vertebral column. The second part, on both sides alike, lies between the two scaleni muscles, and is supported by the first rib. The soalenus anticus separates the artery from the subclavian vein and the phrenic nerve. Behind, it is in relation with the brachial plexus of nerves. The third part, on both sides alike also, is in relation, in front, with the subclavian vein and subclavian muscle; behind, with the brachial plexus of nerves and scalenus posticus muscle; above, with the supra-scapular artery and platysma myoides; and below, with the first rib.