TETANUS. 613 contrary to what has been observed in warm countries, it is less dangerous than that affection. There remain fwo varieties of tetanus of special etiology, the tetanus of the new-born, and puerperal tetanus. Let us first dismiss the latter, which pre- sents nothing special; it is a traumatic tetanus consecutive to a uterine wound, as it is observed, though seldom, after traumatisms of the non-gravid uterus—ablation of mucous polypi, dilatation of the cervix, etc.; perhaps we should take into consideration, as a predisposing cause, the physical and moral depression which especially follow abortion. In regard to the tetanus of the new-born (trismus neonatorum sive nascentium, locked jaw), its nature is very obscure, and even its existence is disputed since the labors of Parrot, who has demonstrated that, in our climate at least, the affection which had been described by previous writers under this name, was only a form of eclampsia due to uraemic brain-disease. Its symptoms, moreover, differ from those of true tetanus; it begins about the end of the first week after birth; the child is restless, cries, and vomits ; its dejections are greenish; its facial expression pinched; and its lips earthy; then the spasm occurs, at first upon the face, next at the nucha and at the back, manifesting itself by cramps and clonic convulsions which terminate in col- lapse ; finally, dysphagia supervenes and the child dies in coma or during a paroxysm. It is possible, however, that there exists in warm countries a true tetanus of the new-born, depending upon the umbilical wound or upon chilling. [According to Marion Sims and P. A. Wilhite, of South Carolina, tetanus nascentium is a traumatic affection, resulting from displacement of the occipital or of one of the parietal bones, and often avoidable by changing the child’s position, so as to vary the point of pressure as it lies on the bed •or pillow.] (2) The mode of onset permits us to distinguish two very important varieties of tetanus, that which begins with trismus, and which we have described, and that which begins at the point of injury, a variety which Follin dis- tinguishes from tetanus under the name of secondary traumatic spasms. The degree of relative frequency of these two modes of beginning is not yet exactly established, but at present there is a tendency to admit that the second is more frequent than the old authors thought, a very important fact in regard to treatment. The onset at the point of injury does not, indeed, always •occur with “ a sharp shock and intense pain in the injured limb,” as said by Follin, the spasms then following at this point and becoming gradually gen- eralized. On the contrary, in the majority of cases of traumatic tetanus, the pains and cramps of the injured limb are not violent; their existence may be overlooked if the patient is not carefully questioned upon this point, and the trismus is then the first symptom observed. These pains at the point of injury may persist during the whole course of the disease, and precede the crises, constituting thus ^ kind of tetanic aura, the existence of which is the most trustworthy indication for neurotomy or for amputation. When the onset does not occur at the seat of injury, trismus is not always the initial phenomenon; it was entirely absent in one case, and in another the spasms affected the depressors of the jaw. These peculiarities are of no importance, but it is not so with the primary or rapid invasion of the mus- cles of the pharynx, which constitutes the dysphagic form of tetanus, a variety of very grave prognosis. These are the cases that Rose would have described under the name of hydrophobic tetanus. In this connection may be mentioned a case published under that title by Kirchhoff,1 a case which was somewhat complex on account of the lesions of the corpus striatum found at the autopsy. 1 Berlin, klin. Wochenschrift, 1879, No 25.