576 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. the injured nerve. Swan, Hamilton, and Feron have described analogous facts in cases of injury of the fingers. Larrey relates that in consequence of a prick of the internal cutaneous nerve at the bend of the elbow, in a soldier, paroxysms of epilepsy supervened. The patient felt an acute pain at the level of the cicatrix, followed by a distressing shudder, which passed up the course of the nerve, on the inner side of the arm, towards the head, when convulsions immediately ensued. Wilks and Weir Mitchell have published several similar cases. Traumatic neuralgia, convulsive spasms or local epilepsy, and general epilepsy— such are the consequences of central irritation consecutive to nerve injury. Tetanus need only be mentioned. The irritation may extend higher than the spinal cord. The observations of Weir Mitchell show that temporary mental derangement may be a sudden consequence of nerve injury. A volun- teer, he says, received a gunshot wound in the brachial plexus; he imme- diately became like a madman, crying murder, and accusing his neighbors of having assassinated him. An officer, wounded in the arm, had the median nerve cut; he began to speak incoherently of subjects entirely foreign to the occasion and to the place in which he was. He was very weak, but had lost little blood ; he had not the least recollection of his wound ; he had forgotten all that had passed during the hour which followed his injury. The various phenomena which have just been described are centripetal effects of injury of the nerves, without any true lesion, or at least any that is recognizable, of the nerve centres. Can there be an inflammatory lesion of the spinal cord, as in the experiments regarding ascending neuritis, made upon animals ? A certain number of observations seem to establish the pos- sibility of this result, apart from other facts the anatomical explanation of which is yet to be found. This is what now remains for us to study under the name of reflex paralysis. Reflex Paralysis.—This form of paralysis, described by Whytt and Prochaska under the name of sympathetic paralysis, was first observed and studied in the domain of medical pathology. The observations of Stanley made known the palsies of renal origin; those of Graves the palsies of intestinal origin. Romberg added to them the palsies from uterine lesions. The question found no place in surgical pathology until the appearance of the work of Mitchell, Morehouse, and Keen. Brown -Sequard had pointed, out the existence of palsies occurring at a distance under the influence' of traumatisms. But it is to the American surgeons that belongs the merit of having, by exact observations, placed beyond a doubt the reality of these palsies. Since then, new observations have still further extended the field of these phenomena, and for clinical purposes it is convenient to distinguish two classes of cases, according as the spinal medullary disturbances appear immediately after the traumatism, or are progressively developed after a longer or shorter time. According to Mitchell, reflex traumatic paralysis is a paralysis which shows itself in wounded persons, in a region distant from the wound, when the first shock of the injury has passed. He reports seven cases. In the first, a wound of the neck was followed by paralysis of both upper extremi- ties. In Cases III. and VI., wounds of the sciatic and crural nerves led to paralysis of an arm. In Case IV., a soldier received a ball in the right tes- ticle ; there was paralysis of the right tibialis anticus and peroneus longus. In Case II., a soldier was wounded in the right thigh; he half fell, uncon- scious, and paralyzed in all four limbs; movement rapidly returned Id the left arm, but the recovery of the three other extremities was much more