THE INTERNATIONAL ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF SURGERY. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF THE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCLE. BY P. S. CONNER, M.D., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE MEDICAL COLLEGE OF OHIO, CINCINNATI ; PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE DARTMOUTH MEDICAL COLLEGE, ETC. Injuries and Diseases of the Muscles. In common with other systems of the body, the muscular is the seat of various injuries and diseases ; though in virtue of its anatomical construction, its protection by overlying fasciae, fat, and skin, and its inherent power of resistance to morbid impressions, such lesions and affections are mucli less frequently met with than might naturally be expected, taking into considera- tion the number and size of the muscles and their exposed situation. Myalgia.—With a painful state of varying intensity and duration, affect- ing one or more muscles, every one is familiar. Affecting most frequently the muscles of the neck, of the back, of the chest, and of the calf of the leg, this muscular pain or myalgia may he consequent upon strain or limited rup- ture, upon disease in or about the vertebral articulations, upon nerve-pres- sure, upon a general or special febrile affection, upon particular poisons, such as those of syphilis or lead, or upon rheumatism or gonorrhoea ; muscle-pain being the one constant symptom common to all these conditions. Unques- tionably neuralgic in nature in the majority of cases, in . some if not all of the rheumatic and gonorrheal attacks it must be inflammatory, since myo- sitic hyperplasias, atrophies, and contractures do at times follow. Recognition of the existence of the pain being perfectly easy, from either the difficulty or impossibility of movement, from the existing muscular spasms, from the facial expression, or from the believed reliability of the patient’s statements, it is of chief importance to determine the cause of the myalgia, in order that, this being removed, the effect may cease, as it generally does when it is vol. hi.—1 (l)