ANEURISM. 434 evidently prevent even the smallest afflux from above, while, if any return current comes to it from below, that flow must be very small and uncertain; the tendency, therefore, after cure by this kind of ligature, will be to the formation of passive clot; or, if, as may also happen, the aneurism remains empty, or nearly so, there is no material which, becoming solid, can obliterate the sac. This seems, on one or two occasions, to have occurred in some fatal cases of popliteal aneurism. In December, 1785, Mr. Hunter, who had long been considering the subject of popliteal aneurism, and the ill results of the prevalent treatment, put in practice his idea of ligaturing the vessel at a con- siderable distance from the sac,1 namely, in the space between the adductors, which has since gone by the name of Hunter’s canal. In the state of know- ledge existing at that time, surgeons were disinclined to trust to a single ligature around the vessel, and Hunter, in this, his first case, used four strings at different intervals, and tied them loosely-—hoping that by compressing so large a portion of the artery he might “ make up for the want of tightness, as he chose to avoid great pressure on the vessel at any one point.”2 The aneurism was cured, but the man suffered from abscess at the site of opera- tion, which arose partly from the locality chosen—deep among muscular and tendinous structures — partly from the kind and number of the ligatures. Shortly after this, Mr. Birch tied a man’s femoral artery, with “ a strong flat ligature,” leaving under the artery another, called the ligature “ of reserve.” The man died of suppuration of the sac. In his second case, Hunter used but one ligature. Certainly in some, probably in all, of these early cases, the vein was tied with the artery. About this time3—the exact date cannot be fixed—Brasdor had proposed placing a ligature on an artery on the distal side of the aneurism, and in 1799, Deschamps performed this operation for a high femoral aneurism, with a fatal result. The younger Brasdor, son of the surgeon who proposed this method, was present, and Deschamps speaks of the proposal as “ having been made a long time ago,” and adds that Desault thought well of it. It is probable that this “ long time” was not more than ten or fifteen years. Some time afterwards, Astley Cooper performed a similar operation with temporary benefit, but ultimately fatal result. In 1815, Hodgson4 insisted on the necessary element of success for distal deligation being the absence of any “ branch originating from the aneurism, or from the artery below the aneurism,” and above the ligature, and this principle was still more strongly emphasized by Wardrop in 1825. Brasdor’s recommendation, and Deschamps’s and Cooper’s practice, were evidently founded merely on an eva- sion of mechanical difficulties, in this wise: that when an aneurism was situated on an artery so high up that no ligature could be used above it, the surgeon should try the effect of tying it below; but the essential point, the 1 In 1793, Deschamps published his “ Observations sur la ligature des principales arteres des extremites a la suite de leur blessures et dans les anevrismes, particulierement dans celui del’artere poplitee, dont deux ont ete operes suivant la methode de Jean Hunter, Chirurgien Anglais.” It is, therefore, rather astonishing to find M. Broca, in 1856, claiming this method for Desault, on the strength of his having tied a popliteal artery within the popliteal space, and close to the sac; nor is it possible to repress a smile at this sentence used in describing another case : “ With an abnegation, which his English detractors have not been able to appi-eciate, that great surgeon [Desault], who at that time was aware of the operation practised by Hunter, did not hesitate to adopt the precepts propounded by his illustrious rival.” That is to say, before knowing of Hunter’s method, he operated after the manner of Anel; after knowing of it, after the English method, or that of Hunter. 2 Home, London Medical Journal, vol. vii., 1786, p. 391. 3 Observations et Reflexions sur un Anevrisme vrai de la partie superieure de l’artere femoral, par le citoyen Deschamps. Receuil periodique de la Societe de Medecine de Paris, tom. v. 1799. 4 Diseases of Arteries and Veins, p. 302. I J I 1