29 LYMPHANGEITIS. lymphangeitis is a matter of which we know but little; it no doubt often occurs in association with diffuse cellulitis. Tubular Lymphangeitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic ducts is charac- terized by wavy or, perhaps, straight red lines, hard and gritty to the feel, passing from the seat of injury, abrasion, or puncture, to the nearest lymphatic gland, which is swollen and tender; oedema of the tissues occurs, the course of these tracks is acutely painful, and there is considerable fever and high temperature.1 The statement that the lymphangeitis is limited by the nearest lymphatic gland is certainly erroneous, and many opposing facts have been observed. Curnow (Gulstonian Lectures) quotes a case under his own obser- vation in which septic material was absorbed by a wound, and the supra- condyloid gland became inflamed, and subsequently the axillary glands; and he considers that this condition depends greatly on the nature and intensity of action of the exciting cause. Various pathological changes take place in the lymph, lymphatics, and surrounding cellular tissue. The lymph, instead of being transparent, becomes opaque and full of cells; coagula, or thrombi, perhaps form ; and the vessel becomes occluded. These thrombi are pinkish in color, and not as firm as venous thrombi. They generally form in the immediate neighborhood of the valves. Adherent to the wall of the vessel, they block or may obliterate its lumen, when a collateral circulation is set up. They may break down and become puriform. Dilatation occurs in the lymphatics themselves. They be- come thickened, the endothelium disappears, and the internal coat becomes opaque and uneven. The cellular tissue becomes oedematous (lymphatic oedema), owing to the exudation from the vessels, which may either resolve, become sclerosed, or suppurate. Bradley mentions that the chief danger in tubular lymphangeitis lies in the connective-tissue changes, and instances a case under his own care,2 of cellulitis accompanying lymphangeitis of the neck, where a brawny oedematous collar encircled the part. The constitutional symptoms and urgent dyspnoea suggested tracheotomy. The tissues were, however, incised in the mesian line, and a director passed freely into the cellular tissue on either side, with the good result of a subsequent copious flow of pus, and ultimate recovery. Cellulitis may occur, dependent on lymphangeitis; and not infrequently arthritis, running on to suppuration. This latter complica- tion has been particularly studied by Verneuil;3 and a very similar case to that recorded by Bradley4 was under my own observation, in which acute arthritis of the knee-joint followed an injury to the foot. The joint was opened antiseptically, a large amount of pus was evacuated, and the patient, a child, did perfectly well, regaining complete movement of the articulation. Lymphangeitis may however succeed arthritis, more especially in the case of the knee-joint, and must be regarded as of extreme moment when sup- puration supervenes. The fact of suppuration does not necessarily imply a systemic sepsis, unless the pus contains germs, micrococci, or bacteria; and here indeed is the true difference between simple and septic lymphangeitis, and between non-infective and erysipelatous inflammation. Diagnosis.—Ordinarily, simple lymphangeitis Is readily diagnosed, phlebitis and erysipelas being the diseases most closely associated with it in appearance. We always have, in lymphangeitis, a temperature far higher than that in 1 In certain cases of septic lymphangeitis, no glandular enlargement or pain occurs, while at the same time destructive suppuration is developed in the synovial sacs in the fingers and palm, which we must certainly regard as lymphatic rgseaux. 2 Bradley, Injuries and Diseases of the Lymphatic System, p. 64. London, 1879. 3 Revue Mensuelle de MSdecine et de Chirurgie, t. ii. pp. 816-821. Paris, 1878. 4 Op. cit.