131 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. jets, if his suspicions be well founded. From the internal mammary artery when wounded, the blood may flow outwardly, or, inwardly, into the ante- rior mediastinum, into the pleural cavities, and into the pericardium. The hemorrhage from this artery, when wounded, may soon cause death directly from loss of blood and syncope, or indirectly from asphyxia, by compressing the lungs when the blood flows into the pleural cavities, and from paralysis of the heart when the blood flows into the pericardium, so as to compress that organ. But if the external wound be not large enough to admit a finger for exploration, the diagnosis may be very difficult. When such is the case, as well as when the hemorrhage is suspended at the time of exami- nation, anatomical considerations may afford presumptive evidence; and every deep wound near the margin of the sternum, from the first to the seventh rib, when bleeding therefrom, whether external or internal, occurs, should be enlarged, by incisions if necessary, until the bleeding point is brought into view, when a ligature should be applied to the artery on each side of the orifice. Moreover, the distal ligature is needed almost as much as the proximal, on account of the great freedom with which the terminal branches inosculate, as already stated. The artery, too, must be secured by tying it without delay, lest meanwhile there should occur such loss of blood as of itself to prove fatal. Wounds of the internal mammary artery are often attended with division of the costal cartilages. This complication was present in more than half of the cases collected by Lourdes; and it is almost always present when the vessel is wounded below the fourth rib, particularly when the wound has been inflicted by cutting instruments. Ligation of this artery is esteemed easy of performance in the first three intercostal spaces, difficult in the fourth, very difficult in the fifth, and almost impossible in the sixth. But when there is an open wound and the con- tiguous parts are much swollen and discolored by infiltration, or when the artery is much torn and displaced, as sometimes happens in those cases of gunshot fracture of the sternum, etc., which greatly disturb the relations of the parts, the operation of tying this vessel in the wound may become exceedingly difficult in any portion of its course. If the surgeon fail to secure it with ligatures under such circumstances, what then should be done ? Baron Lar- rey, indeed, taught that wounds of this sort should always be closed, and the cure of bleeding left to nature; but there are very serious objections to this plan, which, in effect, leaves the patient to perish directly or indirectly from internal hemorrhage. Helaton advised that an air-compressor in the form of a bag of India-rubber or gold-beater’s skin should be introduced and inflated within the wound, but this instrument is fragile or unreliable at best, and not always at hand or within reach when wanted. It is best, then, to have re- course to the plan of Desault and Zang, and to place over the wound a fine piece of carbolated muslin or carbolated gauze, four or five inches square, pressing the centre of it through the wound into the thoracic cavity, and stuffing the glove-finger or bag thus formed with antiseptic cotton or lint; the angles of the compress are then brought together and tied like a purse, and the pad or ball of antiseptic cotton or lint is drawn gently outward, and made to compress the injured vessel against the sternum. To keep the pad in place, it may be fastened with ligatures to a roller bandage or any other con- venient cylinder. The materials for Desault’s or Zang’s tampon are always at hand, the compress itself can be strongly made and safely applied ; and, when- ever the attempt to tie the artery in the wound fails, this tamponing is the best resource. It is approved by Velpeau and by Otis.1 At any rate, the hazard of Op. cit., pp. 525, 549.