258 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. attended with much more risk than others. For instance, circumcision, the extraction of teeth, and accidental wounds of the head and face are spoken of as exceptionally dangerous in bleeders, while venesection and vaccination are regarded as less hazardous. Still, all clinical observation shows that any traumatic lesion in a bleeder, whatever be its cause or situation, may excite a characteristic hemorrhage externally or interstitially. Again, the danger from the same kind of wound in a bleeder, for instance, a leech-bite or a pin-prick, is not equally great at all times (Wachsmuth, Martin, Grandidier); thus, it appears that the individual disposition to hsemophilic hemorrhages varies considerably at different times. The critical periods of life for bleeders have already been mentioned. But it must he added that variations in the individual disposition of bleeders to the occurrence of trau- matic hemorrhages, result from other causes which have not yet been fully determined. The change of season in spring and autumn, and the sultriness of air preceding a thunderstorm, have been mentioned with some plausibility ; the evidence, however, is too imperfect to be conclusive. Moreover, the occurrence of a traumatic hemorrhage in bleeders, at times, not only awakens a hitherto latent haemophilia, but also materially aggra- vates, at least temporarily, the manifestations of an already developed hemor- rhagic diathesis. To this almost all writers testify. Virchow, Grandidier, and others, have noticed that after the occurrence of a traumatic hemorrhage the patient is specially subject to the so-called spontaneous hemorrhages, those which are external as well as those which are interstitial. But the spontane- ous bleedings of haemophilia may occur independently of such a connection, and may even constitute the initial manifestation of the disease. Concerning them it is to be particularly noted that sometimes the hemorrhage occurs without any known exciting cause—entirely without prodromata, suddenly, as it were of its own accord. But more frequently the spontaneous hemorrhages are preceded by precursory signs. The patient complains, before the hemorrhage, of flushings, of a hot sensation, and of more forcible pulsations in the heart and arteries. The face, especially the cheeks and the lobes of the ears, is markedly reddened, and feels hot; and there is also headache, together with mental excitement and sen- sitiveness of sight and hearing. The symptoms, however, as a rule, gradually decline, and entirely disappear when the bleeding is once established. These prodromata are obviously to be interpreted as the expression of an increased arterial tension, perhaps also of an abnormal fulness of the entire vascular system; hence the spontaneous hemorrhages thus characterized may properly be distinguished as fluxionary (Virchow), or even as plethoric hemorrhages. Grandidier also has observed that many of these hemorrhages are induced by influences which excite a more forcible action of the heart, such as alcoholic stimulants, mental emotion, and physical exercise, or which suddenly increase the volume of the blood, as for instance, copious drinking. To summarize the exciting causes of the hemorrhages in bleeders: Most frequently they have a directly traumatic origin, but they also occur spon- taneously, that is, without any kind of wound or mechanical injury. Still, many of even tbe latter hemorrhages are indirectly traceable to the influence of re- cent wounds, whereby the tendency to spontaneous hemorrhage is considera- bly increased, or, perhaps, is, for the first time, awakened. But when there has been no antecedent traumatic hemorrhage, the spontaneous bleedings generally manifest a distinctly fluxionary character, and are preceded by vari- ous symptoms of congestion and plethora. Finally, in rare instances spon- taneous hemorrhages occur independently of any obvious cause, with every appearance of actual spontaneity, and must therefore be considered to result from unknown influences. (Immermann.)