LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 143 rhage, a circumstance which probably results from the continuance of the traction of the bloodvessels in the line of their course until they suddenly snap in two, whereupon their ends recoil, incurve, and contract at once, so that little or no blood can escape. Similar cases to that related by Cheselden, of “ Samuel Wood, a miller, whose arm with the scapula was torn off from his body,’’with but very little hemorrhage, have since been witnessed repeatedly by other respectable authorities in surgery. Dr. Eve has collected three ex- amples of this injury. In each, the arm with the scapula still attached was plucked completely off from the trunk. In each, also, the lesion was pro- duced in substantially the same manner; the subject was caught by the hand or arm in powerful machinery, and then rapidly dragged upward by that member, until the trunk struck a beam, or a ceiling, which suddenly barred its progress, while the limb continued to move onward in the machine. The hemorrhage was not excessive in either case. It is stated that, in one in- stance, “the artery was seen pulsating at the bottom of the wound, and was plugged up by a coagulum of blood. The vein was distended, and lay on the torn muscles like a gorged leech.” But few ligatures were required, and in one case it seems that no vessel was tied, as “ there wras no hemorrhage” when the surgeon arrived.1 But little or no sloughing of the lacerated tissues occurred, and each patient made a good recovery. Dr. F. Katholitzky relates an excellent example :2— A man, aged 37, had his right arm and scapula torn away by being caught in a water- barrel which was being drawn up a shaft by steam power. The limb was found in the water at the bottom of the shaft one hundred and thirteen days afterward. Dr. K. saw the patient one hour and a half after the accident. The wound was about twelve inches long and nine wide, and bled but little. There was no hemorrhage from the subclavian, nor from any of the arteries, and their ends could not be found in the wound. There was considerable shock. The wound was reduced by means of steel clamps to the size of a hand, and was covered with charpie. Six hours after the casualty, violent pain set in, but was relieved by the subcutaneous injection of morphia. The wound was dressed with iced compresses. During the following days, there was sloughing of por- tions of tissue, with moderately high fever. Nothing further of importance occurred during the healing of the wound, which was complete at the end of the seventh week. Two years and five months afterwards the patient was in good health, but right-sided scoliosis had appeared.3 But in lacerated wounds, the division of the artery is much oftener found to be incomplete. The Army Medical Museum, at Washington, contains several specimens of this character. One of them was taken from a wound produced by a bayonet-thrust. It shows the subclavian artery torn open for two-thirds of its circumference by the bayonet, one-fourth of an inch from the innominate.4 It was obtained from an unknown soldier, killed at Fort Wagner, S. C. This specimen proves that when a large artery is wounded by a bayonet, the breach in its walls is not always of the punctured variety. There is another specimen in the same museum which shows the popliteal vessels lacerated by a splinter of wood.5 This injury was inflicted in a rail- road accident, October 29, 1864. The patient entered hospital on November 2, and died on the 3d. His thigh was amputated at the junction of the lower and middle thirds. Abernethy relates the case of a man gored in the neck by the horn of a cow. Hemorrhage came on, and was immediately arrested by tying the common carotid artery; but the patient died about thirty hours after 1 Eve’s Surgical Cases, p. 579. 2 Allgemeine Wiener med. Zeitung, No. 45, 1873, and New Sydenham Society’s Retrospect, 1873-4, p. 278. 3 [Fourteen cases of this injury are referred to in the Article on Amputations, vol. i. p. 648.] 4 See Catalogue A. M. M., Specimen 2721. 6 Ibid., Specimen 3761.