(643 ) INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. BY EDMUND ANDREWS, M.D., LL.D., PROFESSOR OF CLINICAL SURGERY IN THE CHICAGO MEDICAL COLLEGE ; SURGEON TO MERCY HOSPITAL, CHICAGO. Injuries of the joints derive their great importance mainly from two cir- cumstances, both of them mechanical m their nature:— (1) The complexity of their structure, which renders a slight displacement of parts, or adhesion of surfaces, fatal to their perfect mechanical action; (2) The presence of the synovial cavity, which# on exposure to the air receives septic germs, and becomes a reservoir filled with putrid secretions, which both poison the whole system, and, locally, cause caries of the bones. The great modern improvements in this branch of surgery are nearly all related to these two conditions, and derive their value from their power over them. In discussing the subject of this article, I shall divide it according to the nature of the injuries, first taking up the important topic of dislocations. Dislocations. A dislocation, or luxation, is a displacement of the articular surfaces of a joint from their normal, relative position. If these surfaces are entirely sepa- rated, the dislocation is termed complete. Where partial separation occurs, it is termed incomplete. If the joint cavity has not been laid open to the ex- ternal air, the dislocation is simple. If it is thus opened, the dislocation is compound. Causes op Dislocation.—The chief, predisposing causes of dislocations of the joints are laxity of the capsular ligament, or rents made in it by previous injury, and imperfections in the margins or other bony and cartilaginous parts of the joints from disease or former accidents. The normal structure of cer- tain articulations predisposes them more to dislocation than others. Thus the shallow cup, and loose ligaments required to allow wide movements of the shoulder, render that articulation specially liable to the accident. Malgaigne classified 603 cases of dislocation, with the following numbers for each part, viz.:— Shoulder .... 370 Thumb .... 20 1 Fingers .... 7 Elbow . .... 45 Wrist 16 Vertebras . 4 Clavicle .... 42 Knee 9 Metatarsus . 2 Hip . . .... 40 Radius 7 Patella .... 2 Ankle .... 31 Jaw 7 Pelvis .... . 1