442 ANEURISM. steeping must go on for at least two months, and is better continued for eight. The effect of this treatment upon the catgut is to render it much more soluble in the tissues ; it has been used very extensively for sutures and for ligatures of vessels, both severed and in continuity. Probably the next generation, or the younger members of this generation of surgeons, will be better able than we are at the present moment to assign its exact value to antiseptic surgery, its high wrought claims, and its evident exaggerations.1 For myself, I conceive that by its aid we may perform certain operations, among them deligations of large and deep arteries, with greater certainty of obtaining union—if not by first intention, at least without sup- puration—and this is undoubtedly a very important advantage. Probably the cumbersome and troublesome appliances, the spray, etc., will be very shortly superseded. Among the various constituents of the antiseptic system, that which chiefly concerns us here is the use of a ligature which, whether it be organized or simply absorbed, does not act within the tissues as a foreign body, but allows the wound to heal, and is not seen any more, if, as doubtless occurs in a large number of cases, all goes on as it should do. But the results of many cases have produced a certain distrust of this liga- ’ ture—a distrust which is shared by the majority of operating surgeons, but which was probably first expressed in public by the late Mr. Callender,2 and which has been augmented by the reports from time to time of the occur- rence of secondary hemorrhage,3 of the formation of a fresh aneurism at the place of deligation,4 and of a rapid return of pulsation in, and persistence of, the aneurism ;5 while my personal want of confidence has been enhanced by the remarkably rapid occurrence of bleeding after tying a common carotid very low down, and by my finding the vessel cut almost completely through. It is not, of course, for a moment to be imagined that carbolized catgut always or generally leads the operator into such troubles; indeed, for tying severed vessels, this material, being a convenient cord ready to hand, will probably continue in use, since it closes the divided mouth of the vessel, and keeps it occluded sufficiently long to fulfil its object in these conditions ; but its failures, when used on vessels in continuity, are only too frequent, appa- rently arising from the fact that its behavior on the tissues is uncertain. Thus a series of careful experiments by M. Arnaud6 gives these results:— Carotid or femoral arteries of dogs tied fourteen times. Catgut disappeared once in 4 days. “ “ twice in 7 days. “ “ once in 9 days. Catgut distinctly visible once in 4 days. “ “ once in 9 days. “ “ once in 11 days. Catgut visible, but softened and infiltrated once in 16 days. 1 It must, however, never he overlooked that, just previous to the birth of antisepticism, many British hospitals, metropolitan and provincial, were much infested by pyaemia and other diseases originating in blood-poisoning, so much so that eight years ago a well-known surgeon wrote that what would be best for some of these institutions would be a free use of the pickaxe. (Erichsen, British Medical Journal, January and February, 1874.) The state of certain Continental hos- pitals has been raised by antiseptic surgery from a very lethal to a favorable one. 2 Transactions of the Clinical Society, vol. xi. p. 108. 3 T. Bryant, Trans. Clinical Soc., vol. xi. p. 1 ; Humphry, British Medical Journal, Sept. 14, 1874; Woods, Lancet, Aug. 28, 1875. 4 T. Smith, Trans. Clinical Society, vol. xi. p. 51; Heath, Ibid., vol. xi. p. 40, and others. 5 Barwell, Lancet. * Contributions a l’6tude de la ligature dans le traitement des angvrismes. Paris, 1880.