469 FEMORO-POPLITEAL, FEMORAL, AND INGUINAL ANEURISMS. patient almost certainly to the subsequent inconvenience of a large hernia which can hardly be kept back. This danger is minimized by making the incision rather less horizontal. I proceed thus: having found the external abdominal ring, which, in a thin subject, can easily be felt—in a fat man, if its position cannot be so certainly ascertained, the scrotum may be invagin- ated, and the finger passed into the canal—an incision is begun at a point about an inch outside its outer column, and half an inch above it, and carried an inch on the inner side of the superior iliac spine. This incision should have a slight incurvation, with convexity looking downward and outward. The aponeurosis of the external oblique must be distinctly seen, and incised. Then the internal oblique, and afterwards the transversalis muscle, must be recog- nized and divided. It is important really to see these parts as separate entities, and the operation is best done by dividing each to nearly the whole extent of the first incision, and in the same curvilinear direction. The operator is greatly helped by a certain tenseness of the abdominal walls; if this be not normally present, an assistant should produce it by pressing gently with his flat hand at and below the umbilicus. The next step of the operation must be carefully carried out, viz., division of the fascia transversalis upon the peritoneum. The safest plan is to pinch up a little fold with the forceps, incise it with a blade held flatwise, and gently insinuate an oiled director to a little beyond the required distance; before slit- ting it, the director should be withdrawn about one-quarter of an inch, so as to release a little pucker of the peritoneum, which often laps over the end of the instrument. How the surgeon, with all four fingers of his hand laid gently upon it, presses the peritoneum, with the bowels, gently over towards the middle line, detaching it from the iliac 'fossa until he reaches the brim of the pelvis. Here he will find the artery lying just inside the psoas muscle, with the vein on its inner side. The vessel is in a fascial covering, which must be opened so that the artery is really bare; but the operator must spare the genito-crural nerve, which lies generally upon the vessel, a little towards its outer edge. It should be noted that previous pressure, especially if long continued, renders this operation difficult and hazardous. More than once it has been noticed that by this means the fascia transversalis has become so adherent to, so incorporated with the peritoneum, that it has been impossible to separate them, and that the latter membrane has been necessarily incised. Such wounds are not at the present day necessarily fatal, but they add very much to the patient’s danger, and very considerably to the surgeon’s difficulty if protrusion of the bowels occurs. Indeed, I have before me the records of three cases in which the intestines had to be held back by an assistant, while the surgeon sought the vessel through the back part of the parietal peritoneum. One of these cases ended in recovery. The statistics of deligation of the common femoral artery are by no means favorable. Dr. Fischer has, in his tables,1 collected twenty-five operations performed for femoral, five for popliteal aneurism:— Of 25 deligations for femoral aneurism .... 7 did well. Of 5 operations undertaken for popliteal aneurism . . 1 “ Of 30 deligations of the common femoral artery . . . 8 “ Recovered after limited gangrene over the sac . . .1. From oedema of lung ........ 1 died. “ gangrene ......... 2 “ “ septicaemia ........ 1 “ Hemorrrhage occurred in ...... 17. Loc. cit., p. 194.