437 SURGICAL TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. is interrupted, and the loop of the ligature may he pulled without any force from the opening—after which the wound ought rapidly to heal. All these circumstances—the cessation of pulsation, partial collapse of the tumor, establishment of collateral circulation, lamination of clot in the sac, obliteration of a certain segment of the vessel, and, with some ligatures, sever- ance of the artery—are what should take place, and what we hope for when we perform these operations. The symptoms of these occurrences are as follows:— Almost immediately after the tumor has ceased to heat, the limb about and below the seat of ligature becomes rather warmer, and usually bedewed with a gentle perspiration. This is ascribed to retardation of the blood stream in the capillaries, consequent on elimination of the propulsive action of the heart. I do not feel much faith in this explanation, because, if the warmth depended upon a partial blood stasis, it should be most marked, or at all events should commence, at the extremity. The contrary is the case: the fingers or toes of a limb whose main artery has been tied, are cold almost immediately after, while the central and upper parts are warm.1 The warmth may continue for many days; sometimes, indeed, it is continuous, and is accompanied by a .slight surface-blush. Generally, in an hour or two the warmth declines, and the limb becomes colder than the rest of the body. These caloric phenomena and their irregularity depend upon the greater or less rapidity with which the blood is driven through the arterioles and capillaries. After a period also depending on the quicker or slower development of the smaller blood-streams, a numb sense of formication, sometimes amounting to pain, is felt. The extremity, often the whole limb, tingles, and indeed occa- sionally patients will volunteer the statement that they feel as if insects were running about in the depths of the part. The person has a great sense of weakness in the limb, and does no doubt (as has been seen in experiments on animals) lose power. After a further interval, again depending upon the state of the vessels, and upon the height at which the artery was tied, these sensations more or less gradually decline and disappear. The last to entirely vanish is usually the sense of weakness; the first, unless gangrene set in, is the irregularity of temperature. The tumor, which at first, on cessation of its beat, became both smaller and softer, continues to diminish, but soon hardens, and in a certain time (from one to twenty hours) may be felt to be quite hard and elastic, sometimes moveless, sometimes having a slight undulatory pulsation, and in other cases (in from twenty to sixty hours) possessing distinct but hardly expansile pul- sation,2 which after another interval of a few hours again disappears. If previous to operation the aneurism caused pain by its pressure, alleviation is in some cases immediate and almost sudden, but in others is more gradual. Diminution in the size of the tumor is continuous until the swelling entirely disappears, and the period of such disappearance, since it results from absorp- tion of the laminated clot, evidently must depend on the previous size of the aneurism. These phenomena occur if the conditions have throughout been favorable, but certain circumstances may immediately or more remotely interfere with their sequence, and with the ultimate result, namely:— 1 I tied the right subclavian of J. S. His fingers became cold almost at once, while for three inches below the elbow the limb was abnormally warm. I made a similar observation on the person of C. M., for whom I tied the superficial femoral. The limb, including the upper fourth of the leg, was, two and a half hours after the operation, hot; below this it was less so, and at the ankle cool, the front of the instep and the toes being cold. This coldness of the toes I had remarked immediately after the operation, and had ordered a foot warmer to be placed in their neighborhood. 2 We are here considering the occasional recurrent pulsation which is not incompatible with success.