265 INTERMEDIARY HEMORRHAGE. A soldier, aged 23, received, near Petersburg, Ya., on June 18, 1864, a gunshot wound of the right nates, the ball entering the pelvis at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and on the following day he was admitted into the Hampton Hospital at Fortress Monroe. On the 20th hemorrhage from the common iliac artery occurred, three quarts of blood being lost, and on the 21st death ensued. Autopsy—The ball was found lodged at the superior sacro-iliac symphysis, and the common iliac artery wounded.1 The following case came under my own observation:— A soldier, aged 37, received, at Spottsylvania C. H., Ya., May 18, 1864, a gunshot fracture of the left humerus, for which the arm was amputated at the upper third by the double-flap method. On the 21st he was admitted to Stanton Hospital. On the 22d, profuse intermediary hemorrhage, arterial in character, suddenly occurred from the stump. The stump was immediately opened, and the bleeding was found to pro- ceed from the brachial artery, the ligature having slipped off from it. The artery was again tied on the face of the stump, and the bleeding was permanently arrested. Most unfortunately, however, the patient was attacked with pyaemic pneumonia, and died on June 4. In this case, intermediary hemorrhage occurred in the stump of an ampu- tated arm, because the ligature slipped off from the end of the brachial artery; it appeal’s-that the ligature had been carelessly applied too near the end of the vessel, and that it had not been drawn with sufficient tightness before knotting. In consequence of this inexcusable negligence, the liga- ture was gradually pushed off from the end of the artery by its pulsations after reaction had taken place. When secondary amputations of the extremities are performed through inflamed tissues, intermediary hemorrhages of a parenchymatous character not unfrequently ensue, as happened in the following example:— Lieutenant-Colonel Maxwell, aged 22, was wounded at Five Forks, April 1, 1865, by a conoidal ball, which opened the left knee-joint. An attempt was made to save the limb, but suppurative inflammation ensued, and the thigh became infiltrated with purulent matter between the muscles, as high as the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. On April 17, amputation at the middle of the femur, by the circular method, under ether, had to be performed, and the stump was dressed with cold water. On the 18th it was observed that hemorrhage continued, although twelve ligatures had been applied, and that altogether about eight ounces of blood had been lost. The stump was then opened, and liquor ferri persulph. fortis was applied with a camel’s-hair brush to the whole sur- face of the wound, which was also left open and exposed to the air for about fifteen minutes ; this proceeding entirely checked the sanguinolent oozing. The patient ulti- mately made a good recovery.2 Notwithstanding that all the arteries of appreciable size had been tied in this case, when reaction came, on, bleeding took place from the capillaries of the stump, because they had lost the ability to spontaneously contract, and thus close their open mouths. Moreover, this paralysis of the muscular coats of these vessels appears to have been caused by the inflammatory process, which spread from the wounded knee-joint upward into the thigh. But whenever the arteries are not completely nor transversely divided, but are only cut into or punctured, intermediary hemorrhages are very common. Sometimes a temporary arrest of the bleeding can be repeatedly effected in such cases by coagulation, contraction, and syncope, or by the application of pressure, and still, at every recovery or return of vascular power and excite- ment, the bleeding will be reproduced. The next two examples are in point:— 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War, Second Surg. Vol., p. 333. 2 U. S. Sanitary Commission, Surgical Memoirs, p. 176. New York, 1870.