DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 685 disengaged from its grasp, constitute the details of the method. When the thigh is flexed upon the body, the front half of the capsule, that is, the Y liga- ment, is never tense. In any other position it is tightly drawn, and from the distance of its attachment from the centre of motion, is not easily overcome, even with the long leverage of the femur. Unless the thigh he flexed, there- fore, enormous force is demanded before reduction becomes possible, but when the hip is bent, mobility is restored, and the head slips easily into its socket, often with no more traction than will lift the weight of the limb. As already stated, this process had been observed many times, and certain procedures for favoring it had been described, but the method had not been able to supplant the pulleys, until by the exhaustive study of Bigelow it was reduced to complete rules, and given to the profession in its present, perfect form. The present generation did not originate this idea. On the contrary, it is of very great antiquity. Hippocrates1 says:— “In some” dislocations “ the thigh is reduced with no preparation, with slight exten- sion, directed by the hands, and with slight movement; and in some the reduction is effected by bending the limb at the joint, and making rotation.” It is not until the year 1676 that we find anything further in this direc- tion, when Richard Wiseman2 said— “ If the thigh-bone be luxated inward, and the patient young, and of a tender con- stitution, it may be reduced by the hand of the chirurgeon, viz: he must lay one hand upon the thigh, and the other upon the patient’s leg; and having somewhat extended it towards the sound leg, he suddenly must force the knee up towards the belly, and press back the head of the femur into its acetabulum, and it will knap in; for there is no need of so great extension in this kind of luxation.” In 1713, similar ideas were advanced by Richard Boulton, probably taken from Wiseman.3 In 1742, three dislocations of the hip-joint were reported as reduced by manipulation by Daniel Turner.4 He commenced by extending the limb in the old way, and then directed a sudden flexion. “ So soon as the surgeon perceives the bone moving out, let him take his opportunity, giving orders to the extenders below, suddenly to lift up the patient’s thigh towards his belly, pressing with his hands either to the right or left, as the situation of the same requires, and therewith force back its head towards the acetabulum whereunto it will . . . . snap sometimes with a loud noise.” In 1772, Thomas Anderson, a surgeon of Leith, Scotland,® commenced to practise a method of manipulation strictly in accordance with modern theo- ries, and reported several successful cases. Anderson, not recognizing the action of the ligament, said that he became convinced that the extended position was faulty because of the tension which it produced in the muscles. He averred that by bringing the thigh to nearly a right angle with the trunk, the muscles were relaxed and reduction made easy. He made the necessary extension with the limb bent at the hip-joint. Adducting it, he then drew it with a rotary movement across the opposite limb, thus accom- plishing reduction with very little force. 1 Genuine Works. Sydenham Society’s Translation, vol. ii. p. 643. * Eight Chirurgical Treatises. Book VII. chap. viii. 3 System of Rational and Practical Surgery, p. 346. 4 Art of Surgery. London, 1742, vol. ii. p. 339. 6 Medical and Philosophical Commentaries. By a society in Edinburgh. Vol. iii. p. 424, London, 1775.