493 ORBITAL ANEURISM. toms are these, taken in the order of their usual occurrence: Pains about the orbit, temple, and brow; noise in the head; swelling of eyelids and conjunc- tiva, with considerable congestion, and, perhaps, a varicose condition of both the palpebral and ocular portions of that membrane; pulsation of the eye- ball (sometimes absent); proptosis or exophthalmos, rapidly increasing; more or less rapid disorganization of the globe; formation of a distinct tumor between the eye and margin of the orbit, generally about the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the su 1 T otoscope. The exophthalmos has been, in some cases, extreme, the eyeball being quite extruded—in one case it was reported as lying on the cheek below the malar bone. The impairment of vision and the paralysis of orbital mus- cles is not in strict ratio with the amount of protrusion, being earlier and more marked in certain forms of the disease than in others. More than half of the recorded cases, viz., 41, have been traumatic. Of these, 31 were in males, 10 in females; 19 were due to falls, 13 to blows about the head, 1 to a blow on the nape of the neck, 7 to wounds (1 charge of shot, 1 splinter of glass, 5 stabs with stick or umbrella). The other cases were idio- pathic, namely, 33 ; of these, 9 only occurred in males, 24 in females. But in nearly all of these, also, the disease commenced suddenly—sometimes after an effort, during the progress of labor, or after a violent fit of coughing—while in other cases the sudden attack began during sleep, without apparent immediate cause. The first advent of the malady has been in such cases marked by a sound, as of a snap, a pistol shot, or the crack of a whip, usually preceded or accompanied by a sense of something having given way within the head.1 Suggestive of embolism as a possible cause, is the fact that of the idiopathic cases among women, one-third have occurred during pregnancy. Of the 76 cases on record (three have occurred since Mr. Rivington’s paper was published), opportunity for post-mortem examination occurred in only 13. The results were:— In 1 case, circumscribed aneurism of the ophthalmic arteries within the orbit. “ 1 “ “ “ “ “ artery at origin from carotid. “ 3 “ rupture of internal carotid in cavernous sinus. “ 1 “ atheroma with dilatation of carotid in cavernous sinus. “ 3 “ arterio-venous aneurism in cavernous sinus (traumatic). “ 2 “ plugging of cavernous sinus and ophthalmic vein. “ 2 “ obstruction of blood from orbit in cavernous sinus. Though we must not accept this table as absolutely representing all the morbid conditions which may produce pulsating tumors, nor their relative frequency-^since the more curable forms would escape post-mortem examina- tion—yet we must, to a certain extent, accept its guidance. Row, it is remark- able that we find no case of aneurism by anastomosis, only one case in which the disease was in the orbit itself, and only two of aneurism of the ophthalmic artery. Nevertheless, it is probable that this last condition has occurred more frequently, as in Van Buren’s2 and Curling’s cases.3 The summing up of all the evidence is, that pulsatile tumor of the orbit is usually due to some condition behind that cavity, and as often to venous as to arterial disease; but it appears to me impossible to agree with Mr. 1 Mr. Rivington’s excellent and interesting paper (Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lviii. p. 183) enters minutely into the statistics of this malady, with regard to age, sex, side of affec- tion, etc. For further detail I must refer to that exhaustive paper. 2 See paper by Dr. Noyes, New York Medical Journal, 1869. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxxviii. p. 109. be heard on auscultation, about