8 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCLE. question, as we have already seen, comes up in the consideration of the re- generation of muscular fibre after wounds and ruptures. Under what circumstances are these several forms of degenerative atrophy likely to occur? When the muscular affection is consequent upon lesions of the anterior horns of the spinal cord (the “ amyotrophies of spinal origin ” of Charcot), there may be no degeneration whatsoever, simple atrophy alone ex- isting; but in the great majority of cases the granulo-fatty change will sooner or later be detected, sometimes with associated pigmentary deposits, and the hyperplasia of chronic myositis will be found present in the connec- tive-tissue framework of the muscle. If there be any acute inflammation of the cord, fatty degeneration rapidly follows. In a case reported by Little, of dislocation of the fifth from the sixth cervical vertebra, complete atrophy of the muscles of the forearm was present by the end of the second week. When it is nerve injury that has given rise to muscle-lesions, these latter are, as we have seen, according to Yulpian’s investigations, always limited to the peri- mysium, and are hyperplastic and fatty. Others, however, claim that fatty degeneration of the muscular elements at times takes place. When the nerve damage is an irreparable one, the resulting atrophic changes are permanent and likely to go on from bad to worse ; but when repair can and does take place, restoration of the muscles to their normal condition usually occurs, and that sometimes very rapidly. Markedly diminished blood-supply will cause the fatty change, as is physiologically observed in advanced life, and patho- logically in cases of decided though incomplete arterial stenosis. Vitiation of the quality of the blood produces the same effect; sometimes very rapidly and generally, as in the acute grave pyrexias and after taking certain of the poisons, such as phosphorus and arsenic; sometimes more slowly and in more limited areas, as in the lead palsies. The atrophy always to a greater or less extent associated with joint inflam- mations and fractures, which is simple and not degenerative, cannot, as long believed, be due to disuse, except, perhaps, in certain very chronic cases of arthritis, but is to be regarded as reflex. “ It seems dependent upon dis- ordered nervous influence, and often appears proportionate to the coincident pain, as if it were due to the disturbance of some nutritive nervous centre, irritated by the painful state of sensitive nerve fibres ” (Paget). In case of fracture, Gosselin believes the wasting to result from “ a change in the dis- tribution of the nutritive material consequent upon the work of consolida- tion.” The atrophy of stumps, which is also of the simple form and due to nerve-injury, has been found by Vulpian and others to be associated with wasting of that portion of the anterior columns from which arise the nerves distributed to the parts removed. Three affections, in each of which muscular-atrophy is a most marked symptom, deserve special consideration, viz., progressive muscular atrophy, infantile paralysis, and pseudo-muscular hypertrophy. Progressive Muscular Atrophy.—Progressive muscular atrophy, recognized by Bell but much more carefully studied by Cruveilhier, and subsequently by Duchenne, is characterized, as its name would indicate, by a progressive involvement of the various muscles of the body. Beginning usually in those of the hand (the external interosseous being ordinarily the muscle first affected), though sometimes commencing in those of the shoulder, and even, in rare cases, in those of the lower extremity, it gradually proceeds from muscle to muscle until the most marked atrophy characterizes the appearance of the upper part of the body; and the ultimate involvement of the respira-