INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 286 knife so far sidewise and outward that the flat surface of the blade is turned toward the artery, and then divides the cone, flatwise, just beneath the for- ceps, thus opening the sheath of the vessel. By repeating this procedure, he can open the arterial sheath to any desirable extent. But denuding the artery to any considerable extent of its filamentous structure, must, by rob- bing the vessel of its connecting media, always be adverse to reparative changes. ' In fact, if the artery be detached too far from its sheath, it will he liable to slough, and secondary hemorrhage to ensue at the seat of ligation. The sheath should, therefore, be opened no further than is necessary to permit the needle to enter it and pass around the vessel. VIII. As soon as the sheath is sufficiently opened, Mott’s or the improved American aneurism needle is introduced, and carefully passed around the artery, but always from the side where the vein lies ; the handle is then de- tached by unscrewing it, and the curved point together with the ligature is drawn through. Or, a bent probe is carefully passed around the vessel whilst a pair of forceps keeps the sheath upon the stretch (Fig. 466). Fig. 466. Introducing the prohe. (Esmarch.) Introducing the aneurism needle. (Esmarch.) IX. By means of the prohe, a track is made, through which a narrow aneurism needle (Syme’s or the plain American needle), with an eye at the point, is passed in an opposite direction (Fig. 467). X. The probe is then removed; the eye of the needle being threaded with a strong ligature of carbolized catgut or carbolized silk, the needle itself is withdrawn, and the middle of the ligature remains lying beneath the artery. XT. The ends of the ligature are tied together with a square or reef knot, and without pulling on the artery. The knot must be drawn together with the tips of both index fingers at the bottom of the wound (Fig. 468). Fig. 468. XII. It is advisable to tie the larger arteries with two ligatures, and to divide the vessel itself midway between them, so that both ends may retract within the sheath.