92 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. haps iii most, instances be obliterated by this ligature when the inner and middle coats are not divided by it. Indeed, Professor Jameson, of Baltimore, showed, more than fifty years ago, that the buckskin ligatures which he em- ployed obliterated the arteries without cutting their inner and middle coats, and without destroying their continuity. Hence he opposed all indissoluble ligatures of whatever material; he declared it to be not only unnecessary but highly hazardous to cut the inner and middle coats of arteries, as recom- mended by Jones, etc.; and he agreed with Scarpa in regard to flat ligatures; but, by using buckskin, he had no need, like Scarpa, to remove his ligatures on the fourth day. Experience, however, has abundantly shown that the round is, for most cases, the best form for animal as well as for other ligatures; and that, in general, it is best to divide the' inner and middle coats of arteries when applying them. Obviously the haemostatic effect of animal ligatures is much increased by this proceeding, while the hazard is not increased in anything like the same proportion, especially if the wound be treated anti- septically. Besides those mentioned above, other strings of animal origin have been successfully employed for ligating bloodvessels. Mr. Barwell has provided for that purpose narrow strips of the mingled yellow-elastic and unstriped muscular tissues which constitute the arterial wall, obtained by spirally cut- ing the aorta of the ox. Mr. Sterling has brought ligatures made of kangaroo tendon from Australia. Dr. Ishigouro, of the imperial Japanese army, has devised a ligature of whale tendon, which by some surgeons is strongly recommended. Dr. Wyeth has employed the sciatic nerve of a calf. Catgut, however, has some advantages which the others do not possess. It is to be had in abundance all over the world; it is strong and beautifully smooth; it is supplied of various sizes, admirably adapted for all the purposes of the surgeon; it is extremely cheap, and is easily prepared for use by the method described above. The only precautions to be observed in employing catgut for ligatures are: (1) to select that which is properly prepared for the purpose, as well as sufficiently strong; (2) to draw it between the thumb and index finger in order to free it from all excess of the carbolized oil in which it has been laid; (3) to adjust the knot with care; and (4) to leave the ends about one-fourth of an inch in length. Metallic Ligatures.—The excellent results obtained by Sims, Emmet, and others, from the use of metallic sutures in operating for vesico-vaginal fistulas, seemed to justify a belief that metallic threads-—for instance, those made of silver, lead, or iron—really caused less irritation when applied, in wounds, than threads made of flax, hemp, etc.; and this belief was apparently confirmed by Simpson’s experiments. Moreover, Ollier. from observation and experiment was led to attribute to metallic threads the following advan- tages :—(1) They ulcerate and divide the tissues less rapidly; (2) they occa- sion less suppuration along their track ; (3) they are sooner tolerated by the tissues through which they penetrate, and may be allowed to remain for a longer period; (4) they leave smaller cicatrices; and (5) these advantages are all due to the lower degree of irritation which attends their use. Ollier’s experiments clearly showed the value of fineness in the metallic thread or wire; when wire having the thickness of a hair of the beard was compared, by its effects, with the thread commonly employed, the superiority of the former was undeniable. When the threads were of the same size the differ- ence was less sensible; and, occasionally, for some days it could not be per- ceived. As a rule, however, threads made of metal had the superiority of finally becoming tolerated (that is, healed in, like ear-rings), whilst those of vegetable origin continued to excite suppuration. He found iron wire to be