« MOLES. 373 and this is the treatment employed by S. I). Gross, who recommends issues made over the varicosity by repeated applications of Vienna paste. Ilis method is to take pieces of the paste as large as a three-cent coin, only much thicker, and to place them directly over the tortuous and enlarged vessels, at intervals of three, four, or five inches, and allow them to remain for fifteen minutes, at the end of which time the skin and connective tissue will be found to have been thoroughly destroyed. The paste is then removed, and the parts washed with vinegar to neutralize any excess of the alkali. Poultices are applied to accelerate the separation of the eschars, and to pro- mote granulations. Prof. Gross says that the cure is usually somewhat tedious on account of the length of time required to heal the issues, but that this plan of treatment possesses the great advantage of being entirely free from danger, and always perfectly successful. In spite of the commendation of this procedure by so eminent a surgeon, I am not willing to practise it or advise it. It is of necessity much more painful than cutting openly and directly down upon the varix, and tying the veins thoroughly. The cure, in this operation, must come from inflammation and occlusion, partial or complete. The chances of embolism and extensive phlebitis are certainly less than when the inflammatory process gradually approaches and involves a vessel through which the blood is flowing toward the heart. The application of Bozeman’s button-suture, Isaacs’s injection of subsulphate of iron, Bryant’s tannin injection, and Bartholow’s perivascular employment of ergotine, are other methods which have been resorted to in this affection. Moles. Closely connected with the more superficial forms of vascular tumor are the abnormal, circumscribed hypertrophies of the skin, which are known as moles. They may be, and usually are, congenital, or they may be developed at any period of extra-uterine life. All portions of the cuticular surface may be subject to this form of hypertrophy, but the exposed surfaces, such as the face, neck, and hands, are most frequently affected. The hypertrophy which con- stitutes the mole may involve all or any one of the tissues which enter into the anatomy of the integument. The most frequent variety is that which occupies the face, as a simple elevation from which a few stiff hairs grow. It is not stained with pigment, and differs very slightly, if at all, in color from the normal skin. The lesion here is a true hypertrophy of all the tissues of the skin, chiefly in the derma and papillary layer. The vascularity is slightly increased, and the sebaceous glands connected with the hair follicles take part in the hypertrophy. On other portions of the body this form of mole {ncevus vulgaris) will have no hairs growing from its surface. _ Ncevus pigmentosus is not usually a thickening of the entire cutis, as is the simple mole just described, but its pathological condition is an excessive deposit of pigment in the Malpighian layer and in the epidermis. It varies in color from a slate-gray to a blue, mahogany, reddish-brown, or wine color. At times the pigment mole will extend over a large area, occupying as much as one-third, or one-half of the face. The lobule of the ear, and the integument between the eyes and over the temple, is, in my experience, the most •common location of this deformity. Another name for these spots is “ port-wine mark.” When the hypertrophied area of skin is studded with hairs, it is known as ncevus pilosus, or hairy mole. It follows from the name that this form °f hypertrophy can only occur on those portions of the cutis in which the hairs grow. The plantar surfaces of the feet and the palms of the hands