640 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. Neurectomy requires a larger incision ancl more extended isolation of the nerve. The difficulties presented by the application of this operation to the nerves of the face can be readily understood, since they most often must he sought for in the osseous canals which contain them, in proximity to import- ant organs. It is in these cases that the choice of operative procedure pre- sents a real importance; there exist, moreover, several methods for each of the nerve-trunks which it is necessary to resect. The length of the piece of nerve which it is desirable to retrench, has not yet been exactly determined; as much must be removed as is possible without too seriously complicating the operation. It may be said that reunion of the two ends is exceptional after a resection of five centimetres (two inches). Some surgeons, in order more surely to avoid a relapse, followed the section of the nerve by avulsion, as extensive as possible, of its peripheral end. In order to avoid cicatricial union of the two cut extremities, the older surgeons devised various procedures, all of which have fallen into disuse. Such were the bending back in loops of both ends of the nerve, or the inter- position of a piece of flesh, as proposed by Malgaigne, and cauterization, as extolled by Boyer. The latter does not give any more security against re- lapse than does resection, and it, moreover, exposes the patient to accidents: it has been followed by tetanus, as in Frere’s case, reported by Tillaux. This study of neurotomy and neurectomy may be appropriately terminated with the relation of an interesting case, published by Drs. H. B. Sands and E. C. Seguin:— A man, eighteen years old, was violently thrown backwards more than twenty feet, by the recoil of a cannon, on July 4, 1871. He lost consciousness for five minutes, receiving a contused wound of the right thumb, and a fracture of both bones of the forearm. At this moment, his right hand, he said, was as if it were dead. Three weeks afterwards, a violent neuralgia occurred along the course of the injured ulnar nerve, and in the little and ring fingers. August 14. Drs. Sands and Seguin ascertained that the patient could not execute any voluntary movement, that sensation was abolished from the extremities of the fingers to the upper part of the arm, and that above the zone of anassthesia there was hyperalgesia in the scapular and clavicular regions. In view of the subjective symptoms complained of by the patient, these physicians were led to believe that there was an irritation of the nerve-trunks, produced by the fracture of the bones of the forearm, the fragments of which, no doubt, compressed or imprisoned the ulnar nerve. On the other hand, the paralysis and anaesthesia were too extended for the lesion not to reach much higher than the fracture, and, as a consequence, any operation practised at the seat of the solution of continuity, or below it, would have been useless. Dr. Seguin, believing that there was an ascending neuritis, recommended the application of powerful revulsives above and below the clavicle. August 28. The pains were still more severe. Dr. Hamilton thought that there was a rupture of the nerve-trunks in the axillary region, and proposed amputation of the arm, which was performed on August 29. The median, ulnar, and musculo-cuta- neous nerves were in a state of complete degeneration. They were neither compressed by the fragments of the broken bones, nor inclosed in the space between them. Tem- porary relief followed, but the pains returned. Dr. Seguin proposed resection of the nerves which form the brachial plexus as close as possible to their points of emergence from the intervertebral foramina. November 5. Neurectomy was performed by Dr. Sands, in the region of the neck. The right fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves were excised, as well as several other nerves ; all the fragments removed showed evidences of neuritis, with thickening of the neurilemma and granular degeneration of the fibres. Marked benefit was experienced from this operation, but the patient, kept under observation for a year, still had obstinate pains occasionally.