AXILLARY ANEURISM. 489 phrenic nerve has been drawn inward or protected. The position of the pleura must also be remembered: its safety can be secured by passing the director, and using the knife, rather on the upper aspect of the artery. The support of muscular fibres causes this part of the vessel frequently to escape dilata- tion, which may affect both the first and the third part; the condition might be called an hour-glass aneurism. Or disease creeping up along the vessel from the axillary may involve the third part of the subclavian artery, yet terminate sharply and suddenly at the border of the scalenus. In either case, ligation in this situation is far more likely to prove successful than at the third part of the artery. If the first fart of the subclavian be also dilated, it may be advisable to extend the incision a little further inward (unless the parts can be drawn in that direction), and to tie also the vertebral; great care must be used to avoid the phrenic nerve. We shall see presently that the very large inosculations at the base of the brain may render it dangerous to keep this vessel pervious. The statistics of tying the subclavian for axillary aneurism, which will be given immediately, are not very favorable. I am sure that the more modern forms of ligature will change the ratio of cures very considerably. However this may be, it was no doubt these unfavorable results that led Mr. Syme to advise recurrence to the old operation.1 The case on which he founded his recommendation was one of ruptured artery, and in that instance his proced- ure was doubtless right, for in such cases the Hunterian method is not likely to prove efficacious.2 But no one who reads that surgeon’s description of his operation will, I think, be tempted to follow his example in cases of sacculated aneurism, unless the position of the shoulder renders it evidently impossible to reach the subclavian artery. Moreover, in his case, the rupture of the ves- sel must have been at the lower part of the axillary, since Mr. Syme reached the distal end with ease, and was able to tie the proximal end half an inch above its orifice; it is questionable whether a sacculated aneurism of the first part of the axillary could thus be treated, and, even if it were found possible, the mortality would probably be very great.3 Axillary aneurism is a very serious disease, its treatment often proving in- effectual. The failure arises from several causes, viz., (1) the numerous and free anastomoses between the axillary artery and the subclavian; (2) the very loose character of the surrounding structures, causing rapid growth and facile rupture, so that the aneurism, while undergoing treatment, frequently becomes diffused; (3) the fact that the disease, though its symptoms may indicate simply axillary aneurism, often extends above the rib, so that the ligature is applied to a vessel already thinned and dilated—in other words, to an upward prolongation of the sac. Of statistics concerning this operation, we have a singular abundance in the tables of Horris,4 * Koch,6 and Poland,6 the latter, however, chiefly con- cerning subclavian aneurism, as English and American surgeons define it. Some ambiguity must here arise, since, in different countries, the arbitrary line of demarcation between the subclavian and axillary arteries varies considerably. For English-speaking anatomists, the latter vessel begins at the lower border of the first rib, and for Germans, at the lower border of the pectoralis minor; 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliii. p. 137. 2 In a postscript, he mentions having carried out the same method for a sacculated aneurism, the patient returning home in a month. 3 Mr. Syme’s proposal to treat inguinal aneurisms and carotid aneurisms on a similar plan certainly cannot be entertained. Treatment by distal ligature will be considered hereafter. 4 Contributions to Practical Surgery, p. 220. 6 Archiv fur klinische Chirurgie, Bd. x. S. 195. 6 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1870, 1871, 1872.