56 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. “In many cases of amputation at the wrist and forearm,” says Guthrie, “in which I wished the patient to lose a certain quantity of blood, I have allowed either the radial or ulnar artery to bleed until it ceased. At first, the jet appears interrupted, then the stream becomes continuous, although projected further at each systole of the heart. As the orifice contracts, the flow of blood becomes more equal, it is thrown to a less distarfce, the size of the stream is smaller, and it goes on diminishing until it only oozes out, and then soon ceases; the extremity of the vessel being covered by a layer of coagulum of greater or less thickness. The experiment may be made every day upon the temporal artery, with this addition, that as the stream diminishes let a fillip with the nail be given to the extremity of the vessel, when the jet will become a little larger; and this may be done several times, until at last it fails to have any effect, and the hemorrhage ceases. In none of these instances could the retraction of the artery be fairly estimated, although it appears from analogy, and from what is seen to occur in other cases, that a certain degree of it must have taken place. In similar cases, in which I have been able to make an examination either after death or ampu- tation, the contraction [but not the retraction] of the vessel was evident, as well as the formation of a very slight external coagulum, extending into the canal of the artery. The sheath of the artery could do nothing, because there was none; neither did the internal coagulum, which, at this period, strictly speaking, does not exist. In small vessels, such as the radial or ulnar arteries, I do not believe anything depends on the diminished power of the circulation; but when the axillary and femoral arteries are divided, the shock of the injury and the loss of blood powerfully contribute to the sup- pression of hemorrhage.”1 Guthrie’s observations concerning the absence of retraction in such arte- ries as the radial and ulnar in the lower third of the forearm, together with the anterior temporal and facial, etc., when divided in wounds, agree pretty closely with what I have seen. But when large arteries that are invested with sheaths, and are likewise imbedded in loose connective tissue, for in- stance, the brachial, axillary, femoral, etc., are divided completely in shot- wounds, and they cease to bleed spontaneously, which sometimes happens, and several examples whereof will hereafter be presented, the retraction of the ends becomes quite strongly marked and noteworthy. Of such cases Dr. Jones has furnished an excellent description :■—- An impetuous flow of blood, a sudden and forcible retraction of the artery within its sheath, and a slight contraction of its extremity, are the immediate and almost simultaneous effects of its division. The natural impulse, however, with which the blood is driven on, in some measure counteracts the retraction, and resists the contrac- tion of the artery. The blood is effused into the cellular substance between the artery and its sheath, and, passing through that canal of the sheath which has been formed by the retraction of the artery, flows freely externally, or is extravasated into the sur- rounding cellular membrane, in proportion to the open or confined state of the ex- ternal wound. The retracting artery leaves the internal surface of the sheath uneven, by stretching or lacerating the cellular fibres that connected them. . These fibres entangle the blood as it flows, and thus the foundation is laid for the formation of a coagulum at the mouth of the artery, which appears to be completed by the blood as it passes through this canal of the sheath, gradually adhering and coagulating around' its internal surface till it completely fills it up from the circumference to the centre. A certain degree of obstruction to the hemorrhage, which results from the effusion of blood into the surrounding cellular membrane, and between the artery and its sheath— but particularly the diminished force and velocity of the circulation, occasioned by the hemorrhage, and the speedy coagulation of the blood which is a well-known consequence of such diminished action of the vascular system—most essentially contribute to the accomplishment of this important and desirable effect. A coagulum, then, formed at the mouth of the artery, and within its sheath, and 1 Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, pp. 225, 226.