274 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 393. The following example occurred in my own practice:— A soldier, aged 27, was admitted to the Stanton Military General Hospital June 4, 1864, for a gunshot wound of the right leg, complicated with a badly comminuted fracture of the fibula, which had been received at Cold Harbor, on May 31. The effort to save the limb was continued. On June 14, secondary hemorrhage (arterial) occurred from the wound, and about ten ounces of blood were lost. The leg was then greatly swelled and inflamed all the way up to the knee. The pulse was small and frequent, and there were other signs indicating the approach of irritative fever; wherefore, the limb was amputated without delay, at the lower third of the thigh, by the circular method, under ether, as affording the patient the best chance of his life. Examination of the amputated leg showed that the muscles were extensively infiltrated with purulent matter, that the peroneal artery was severed, and that the hemorrhage had proceeded from its proximal end, which had been re-opened through liquefaction of the occluding clot and fibrinous exudation at the mouth of the vessel. The patient did well for a few days ; but unhappily he was then seized with pyaemia, and died from that disease, eleven days after the operation. The following abstract and wood-cut (Fig. 458) will serve to still further illustrate this subject in a useful manner:— Fig. 458. A soldier was wounded1 Sept. 20, 1863, by a conoidal ball, which entered below the left zygomatic arch, passed transversely through, and escaped from the right side of the neck below the angle of the lower jaw. On Oct. 2, secondary hemorrhage from the mouth and wound of exit occurred. On the 4th the external carotid was ligated. The patient did well and appeared to be safe until the 12th, when hemorrhage recurred, but was again checked by compression. The wounds were nearly healed; but the patient was greatly enfeebled by repeated losses of blood. On the 23d profuse hemorrhage from the wound of exit again set in, and the right common carotid was ligated, about an inch and a half above its origin ; but the patient sank and died on the 25th. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 458), which shows a ligature on the common trunk, that was applied two days before death, a large coagulum at the bifurcation, but imperfectly indicated, the origins of the occipital and facial arteries from the external carotid, and the rugose, ulcerated extremity of the external carotid that had been wounded. (6) Secondary hemorrhages are occasionally produced in the stumps of amputated limbs by the non-closure or non- obliteration of the main arteries, even when they have been properly secured by ligatures. In such cases, when a ligature separates and comes away, the blood usually flows out from the unclosed and patulous mouth of the artery in a great stream. The following very striking example occurred in my own practice:— showing ligation A Confederate soldier, aged 27, received a gunshot wound of of right carotid ar- the right knee-joint at the Rappahannock Station November 7, tery, and rugose, 1863, and was captured. On the 9th, he was admitted to Stanton ulcerated section of Hospital, where the attempt to save his limb was still pursued. On external carotid. . _ , 7 . , , i Spec 2133 Sect i, the 18th, however, amputation ot the member become necessary, and a. m. m. accordingly was performed at the inferior third of the thigh, by the double-flap method, under ether. After that the patient did well in every respect until December 1, when he began to complain of great pain in the stump, and became agitated and restless. On the 2d, the pain, agitation, and restlessness were