457 ANEURISM OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. artery at the site of a wound, as in Amott’s case. Hence, before undertak- ing any such procedure, it is wise to render the part bloodless by means of the Esmarch bandage. I should myself not dream of operating after this manner; indeed, I consider that the large division of parts, and the inter- ference with intermuscular spaces, render this mode unjustifiable, while a method so muchdess severe, and at least as easy, lies at hand. The other method, which I very decidedly recommend as preferable, presents no great difficulties. The popliteal artery divides into its three terminal branches about three inches below the middle of the popliteal space. From this point, half way to the malleolus, the vessel is sought from the inner side, under cover of the inner origin of the soleus; below that point the muscle ceases to arise from the bone, and may be pushed aside. The nerve lies superficial, that is, behind the artery, and, except quite at the top of the region which we are considering, to its outer side. The operator finds the inner, posterior margin of the tibia, and about half an inch behind that line makes an incision 2J or 3 inches long; this should expose the fascia which covers the soleus, and (fixes it to the bone; it also exposes the internal saphena vein (often separated into several branches), which with a little caution, can be turned aside and spared. After division of the fascia, the origin of the soleus, which, except quite above, is aponeurotic, comes into view. A little gap may be made in this, a director passed beneath, and the muscle severed from the bone. On holding the posterior edge of the incision, including the muscle, backward, while the foot is well extended, the anatomist recognizes the long flexor of the toes lying upon the tibia, and covered in by the deep layer of fascia; the finger must be placed on this muscle, and passed on till the nerve and artery are felt—or seen, if the back flap of the wound be drawn well backward and outward. How the deep fascia should not be divided immediately over these parts, but a little on the inner side; only a slit big enough to admit the tip of the forefinger need be made, as the rest will tear, and then the finger impinges directly on the artery, and may guide the aneurism needle around it, while at the same time it pushes the nerve outwards. The veins should be included in the ligature; they lie close to the vessel, and cross-branches so encircle it that it is barely possible to separate them, while their occlusion does no harm whatever. This operation will serve for any case of aneurism or wound that lies a little below the inferior edge of the popliteus muscle. An aneurism above that point may rank with popliteal aneurisms, and should be treated in a like manner. A little more than half-way down the leg, the posterior tibial artery be- comes less protected; at the lower part of this region, an incision midway between the tibia and the inner edge of the Achilles tendon, will find it lying to the inner side of the nerve, on the flexor longus digitorum. I need hardly add that the deep layer of fascia must be divided. At the upper part of this lower half, the procedure resembles that already described for the superior half of the leg; but the soleus has ceased to arise from the bone, and is only attached to it by a layer of fascia; this being divided, and the edge of the muscle being recognized and turned aside, the artery may be found, and the needle passed as in the higher operation. _ The popliteal artery was often tied before the time of Hunter; the opera- tion being no longer employed for aneurism of the popliteal artery, can very rarely, if ever, be required; the only contingency in which I can conceive it to be justifiable, would be in certain cases of hemorrhage from suppuration of an aneurismal sac placed low on the artery (p. 449). The vessel may best be reached from the inner side, by an incision carried just in front of the sar-