544 ANEURISM. about a quarter of an inch from the cardiac margin of the ulcer. The walls were not divided, and the ulcer had not taken origin at the site of the ligature. The vessel was not occluded by adhesion of the inner surfaces, but a chink remained at the ligatured portion, through which the clot was continued, and had been united to the clots in the subclavian and the carotid. The clot in the subclavian was well formed. The ulcer had eaten into the innominate at its centre, and had in this way doubtless caused the hemorrhage. In order to search for the ligature, an inch of the posterior wall of the innominate was cut out, and several sections made by Mr. Abraham, but no trace of it could be found. The coats of the vessel were undivided. The result of this case, although much to be regretted, clearly shows that, the ligature had entirely succeeded, but that an abscess, resulting from imper- fect healing of the wound, had opened into the innominate close to the bifur- cation. No blood, however, had passed the point of deligation, nor had any descended the common carotid; the hemorrhage must, therefore, have been supplied by the vertebral. The occurrence of an abscess, which, not having exit externally, burrowed deeply till the pus found its way into a vessel, is an accident hardly likely to- recur. The fact that the vessels were closed on each side of the ligature by firm clot,1 that the aneurism was far advanced in the process of cure, and,, above all, that the coats of the vessel were, at the point of 'deligation, unin- jured, vindicates, most completely, the principles which guided me in the choice of a flat ligature, viz., to leave the parietes of the vascular lumen intact and without breach of continuity. The fortuitous opening by an abscess into that lumen does not, in any way, aflfect or detract from that position. The case, though ending in death, proves even more conclusively than if it had been successful, the value of the ox-aorta ligature. 1 That in the carotid had been subsequently softened by admixture with pus from without. J