GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 177 passed obliquely through from behind, severing the femoral artery and vein at the point where the artery passes through the adductor magnus. Death occurred in a few minutes from hemorrhage.1 Private William Nelf, Troop B, 9th Cavalry, was admitted to hospital at Fort Stockton, Texas, in a moribund condition, having bled almost to death from a gunshot wound of both thighs. A tourniquet was put over each femoral artery. The patient’s condition precluded an operation for ligating the injured vessels. The autopsy showed the femoral artery and vein to be severed.2 Thus, I have briefly presented nine cases in which large arteries were com- pletely divided by rifle or pistol-balls. Eight of them perished from the primary hemorrhage. In some, death was almost instantaneous; in others, it occurred in some minutes ; and in a few at the end of some hours ; but, in almost all, death occurred in a very short time. Digital compression ap- plied in the wound immediately after the casualty, and continued until the ends of the severed artery can be securely tied, affords almost the only means of saving such patients. But one of these nine cases survived the primary hemorrhage. He lived until the eighteenth day, when secondary hemorrhage supervened, and car- ried him off almost immediately. In the following example, also, death ensued from secondary hemorrhage:— James Brown, 3d Tennessee Mounted Infantry, was shot through the right thigh, just below Poupart’s ligament, obliquely from before backward, at the battle of Chicka- mauga ; the wound involved the track of the femoral artery, but not the bone. The man was taken to the field hospital; no pulsation could be felt below the wound, and it is there- fore believed that the common femoral artery was divided; there was then no bleediiw of consequence, so the case was left to nature, and the patient did well for six days, when hemorrhage suddenly supervened while he was at stool. Liquor ferri persulph. was immediately injected into the wound, and compression applied, but without suc- cess. The external iliac artery was then ligatured, under chloroform, by Sir A. Cooper’s method. But the patient never rallied from the loss of blood ; he gradually 6ank, and died from anaemic exhaustion on the seventeenth day after the operation.3 For secondary hemorrhage in such cases, digital compression, applied without delay in the wound, and .kept up until the ends of the severed artery are secured with ligatures, is the proceeding which must be employed, for it is about the only one that can rescue the patient. Gangrene has often been observed in patients who had survived the shock and the primary bleeding incident to the division of large arteries by small- arm projectiles, and I shall present several examples in point;— Private C. Gross, Co. K, 6th Pa. Cavalry, wounded May 30, 1864. A minie- ball passed through both thighs at the middle, from left to right, dividing also the left femoral artery, but without injuring the bone. Patient lay in the woods for twenty-four hours; hemorrhage occurred several times, which he partially controlled by making pressure with his fingers. May 31 he Avas discovered, and taken to the field hospital, where the severed artery was cut down upon, and both ends tied. June 4, he was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under my care; countenance pallid; pulse weak ; limb very much swelled, cedematous, and presenting dark patches of extra- vasated blood around the groin. On the 5th secondary bleeding occurred to moderate extent, and was arrested by ferri persulph., etc. It recurred, and was arrested by digital compression. On the 8th his foot became gangrenous, and the gangrene spread upward. On the 9th he died. Autopsy—Limb very much swollen ;°muscles exten- sively infiltrated with pus from groin to knee; femoral artery severed about its middle* both ends tied, but the distal ligature had slipped off; femoral vein also found lio-a- 1 Ibid-, p. 78. 2 ibid., p. 85. 3 U. S. Sanitary Commission, Surgical Memoirs, vol. i. p. 51. New York, 1870. VOL. III.—12