NEUROTOMY AND NEURECTOMY. 635 neuralgia, according to the constitutional condition of the patient; as to its cause, peripheral or central (congestion, neuritis, ascending neuritis, compres- sion) ; as to its exact seat, in the nerve-trunk, in the terminal branches, or in the central origin of the nerve. Finally, are we dealing with a reflex, or with an essential neuralgia ? From what has been said, then, three therapeutic indications are to be fulfilled:— (1) To combat the general constitutional state; (2) To combat the local nerve lesion ; and (3) To combat the pain. I insist upon the necessity of preceding all surgical interference by an appropriate general and local treatment, continued for a sufficiently long time. But frequently the diagnosis is incomplete, and symptomatic treatment is employed in the endeavor to relieve the pain. If the neuralgia is from a 'peripheral cause, the first indication is to endeavor to act upon this cause itself; if it escape our means of action, we must have recourse to neurotomy ; but Tripier recommends, in such a case, to interrupt all communication with the nerve centres by multiple sections. The opera- tive procedure will be relatively easy if the cause of the neuralgia still per- sist, but if it have disappeared, in consequence of previous treatment, for example, while allowing the pains to continue, some difficulty will be experi- enced in the operation. Tripier advises, in order to determine the seat of pain, to explore the nerve by pressure. If this, being applied over the nerve supposed to be affected, causes the pain to cease, it is to this nerve that we must direct our attention. If the pain does not cease, it may be inferred that the lesion either involves the recurrent fibres, or is centrally situated. In order to ascertain which are the recurrent fibres affected, pressure should be exerted upon the neighboring nerves. In cases where the existence of a central lesion is probable, some advise to refrain from interference, while others still authorize the operation as a last resource, either in the hope of rendering the paroxysms less frequent by suppressing causes of peripheral irritation, or even in the endeavor to obtain a cure ultimately, through consecutive atrophy of the seat of the lesion. Yulpian and Dickinson have, in fact, observed, after a certain time, atrophy of the spinal cord at points corresponding to the origin of the nerves of am- putated limbs. If there is reason to fear that the case is one of ascending neuritis or peri- neuritis, neurotomy becomes necessary, or rather neurectomy above the lesion, taking care to examine the removed fragment, as advised by Brown-Sequard, in order to know if the nerve is still diseased at the point of section; and in case of failure, a new section must be made at a higher point of the same trunk. The difficulty of diagnosis in ascending neuritis accounts for many of the failures of neurotomy and neurectomy. If the lesion is located in the cutaneous ramifications of the nerves, its dis- semination and multiplicity of anastomoses may lead us to think that there is a central lesion, but there is almost always a more painful zone which seems the centre of irradiation, and the limits of which successive compres- sion of the different nerve-branches will permit us to determine. Tripier ad- vises, before resorting to nerve-section in these varieties of neuralgia, to treat them by applying very delicate cautery irons, so as to affect the entire thick- ness of the skin. If this treatment does not succeed, a polyneurotomy should be performed, cutting first those branches, compression upon which seems to cause a disappearance of the pain. According to some authors, Yulpian among others, the possibility of a lesion occupying the terminal plexuses has not been demonstrated.