277 SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. skin, a little in front of the auditory foramen. On the 28th he entered the Lincoln Hos- pital at Washington. The ball had not been extracted, but no symptoms demanded special attention until Sept. 7, when it was observed that the right parotid gland was so greatly inflamed that the patient could with diffi- culty separate his teeth more than one-fourth of an inch. In the course of the day, an alarming hemorrhage, supposed to proceed from the posterior auricular artery, occurred; it was stopped by compres- sion with lint steeped in a solution of persulphate of iron. On the 9th, an alarming hemorrhage again occurred, which was temporarily arrested, with difficulty, by compression with lint and styptics, until the patient could be taken to the operating room, where, under ether, the right common carotid artery was tied. Coagula were removed, and the missile was extracted from near the angle of the jaw. The bleeding recurred on the 11th and 12th, but ceased spontaneously. On the 18th, there were several recurrences of hemorrhage. On the 19th, the ligature was removed; the face and neck were much swollen. On the 20th, the patient died from hemorrhage. Autopsy— Submaxillary gland suppurating; an abscess extended about three- fourths of an inch above and below the place of ligation, and the ends of the artery were covered with pus. The artery from which the he- morrhage issued was not found. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 459) which shows the termination of the innominate, the com- mencement of the right subclavian, the trunk of the right common carotid, severed by ulceration at the site of the ligature, and the bifur- cation into the external and internal carotid, the calibre represented being one-third of the normal. The ligature on the internal carotid was applied during an experiment upon the cadaver. It is not improbable that, in cases like the above, the pa- tienj^might often, perhaps generally, be saved by the employ- ment from the very outset of antiseptic dressings and thorough drainage. The use of carbolized catgut, or other appropriate antiseptic animal ligature, for the deligation of arteries and veins, will likewise aid much in producing good results, because it does not, in general, cause ulceration, but more or less slowly disappears by absorption, without inducing suppuration; aud for this reason such ligatures should be applied in all deliga- tions, whether performed in the primary, intermediary, or secondary period. When suitable animal ligatures are not at hand, those of carbolized silk should be employed, as has already been stated. Many of the examples presented in the foregoing pages, with a view to illustrate the pathogenesis of secondary hemorrhage, also very clearly show some things which should not be done for that atfection. (1) The wound should not be plugged with lint soaked by acid ferric salts, or any other so-called styptics, for this treatment never permanently suppresses the bleeding where vessels of any magnitude are opened, and it often does much harm, by permitting the hemorrhage to return again and again in cases where the greatest promptitude of action on the surgeon’s part is necessary, in order to prevent the loss of so much blood that fatal anaemic exhaustion must ensue. (2) The main artery should not be tied at a distance from the bleeding wound, unless nothing else can be done, for in a large majority of cases where arteries are ligatured on the plans of Anel and Hunter, for secondary hemor- rhage from open wounds, the bleeding returns sooner or later, and proves fatal. But how should secondary hemorrhages be suppressed? In the first place, Fig. 459. Showing ulcera- tion of the common carotid attending the separation of a ligature on the tenth day ; death from he- morrhage on the fol- lowing day. Spec. 3252, Sect. I.,A.M.M.