192 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 2 Ibid., p. 237. i Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., p. 237. when the wound is inflamed or much swollen, it cannot he employed. Much preferable to it for general use is ligation according to the ancient method, as was practised in the next two examples A soldier, aged 24, received, September 22, 1868, an incised wound on the dorsal surface of his right hand, severing the radial artery. He was taken to hospital, where both extremities of the artery were ligated. On September 30 the patient was doing well; in October he was returned to duty.1 A cavalry soldier at West Point severed the radial artery by striking his fist through a window-pane May 31, 1868. The wound was enlarged by incision, and both ends of the artery were tied by Dr. E. J. Marsh. Considerable swelling followed; the wound, however, healed with but slight suppuration. On June 9 the ligatures were removed; on the 18th the patient was returned to duty.2 The following case, in which the ancient method of ligation had finally to be practised for an incised wound of the ulnar artery, will serve to show the comparative value of several different plans of treating the consequences of this wound:— A zinc-plate worker, aged 29, was admitted to St. George’s Hospital March 6, under care of Mr. Pick. Twelve days before, a chisel slipped and entered his left wrist over the ulnar artery. Profuse hemorrhage followed; it was controlled at first by a ligature tied tightly round the arm, and subsequently by direct pressure over the wound, which was maintained for two or three days, the wound, on its removal, being found healed. In the course of a few days, however, a swelling appeared, which, on admission to hospital, was found to be oval in shape, of the size of a walnut, and situated on the wrist in the course of the ulnar artery. It was surmounted by a cicatrix. Pulsation and bruit were marked. The forearm was kept forcibly flexed upon the arm for twenty- one hours, without benefit. Two horse-shoe tourniquets were next applied, one on the brachial, the other on the ulnar artery, and were kept on as long as the patient would bear them, and until the limb was very cedematous, but without success. On April 15, galvano-puncture was applied. On the second day afterward the sac burst, and much bleeding ensued. The sac was then laid open from top to bottom, and a few clots, with some decolorized fibrin, turned out. In the posterior part of the sac the upper and lower orifices were seen. The vessel was then tied above and below, and divided between the two ligatures. The man made a good recovery.3 Had the last operation been performed at the outset, much time, much expense, much trouble, and much suffering would have been saved to patient and surgeon. Let me here say, also, that hemorrhage from incised wounds of the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries, or their branches, when the wound is recent and the parts are sound, will give the surgeon but little trouble, provided he treats it on the orthodox plan of bringing the bleeding orifice clearly into view, applying a ligature on each side of it, and dividing the artery midway between the two ligatures, so that the ends may freely retract. But if the surgeon rely on compression and styptics, in such cases, he may cause for himself a great deal of trouble, and for his patient a great deal of suffering, which could readily have been avoided by ligaturing the wounded vessels according to the method just described. In such cases, too, distal ligatures are indispensable in order to prevent the regurgitant bleeding which, in their absence, would ensue from the remarkably free inosculations that exist between the terminal branches by means of the palmar arches, etc. Incised wounds involving the palmar arches are not unfrequently met with. They are caused by the sharp-edged tools of industry; also by grasping with the hands, in self-defence, the razors, knives, and daggers with which assaults are made. These wounds, when treated at the outset on the orthodox plan 3 British Medical Journal, June 1, 1872, p. 582.