ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS; ANEURISMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURISM. 249 weapon was withdrawn.1 Baron Larrey recorded three cases in which aneurismal varix of the axilla occurred in consequence of incised wounds in- volving the axillary artery and vein. M. Berard reports a case observed by Dupuytren, in which it was caused by a gunshot wound of the axilla. Dr. J. C. Nott, in 1841, reported a case of successful ligation of the subclavian artery for arterio-venous aneurism. Dr. J. P. C. Wederstrandt also reports an aneur- ismal varix following a gunshot lesion of the subclavian vein and artery, which the patient survived seven years, finally dying of another disease. M. Legouest, too, relates a case that resulted from a musket-ball wound of the left axilla, at Balaclava.2 Above I have presented an example of aneurismal varix of the left thigh, which was caused by an incised wound of the femoral vein and artery. Hennen records a case in which aneurismal varix of the right thigh was caused by a musket-ball wound of the same vessels.3 Many examples of arterio-venous aneurism of the thigh have been reported. Furthermore, Dorsey has detailed a case in which aneurismal varix of the leg resulted from a gunshot wound.4 Treatment op Arterio-Venous Aneurisms.—Arterio-venous aneurism in the neck, as far as the published cases enable us to judge, does not often prove fatal, if it be let alone. This lesion should not be interfered with, unless, from its growth, inconvenience arises or danger is threatened. In some comparatively rare instances this will happen. Then the treatment by compression should first of all be tried. Medini reports a very unpromising case of arterio-venous aneurism of the neck, which was completely cured by steady, long-continued pressure applied with Signorini’s tourniquet.5 6 Should compression fail, ligation must be resorted to. On theoretical grounds, Anel’s and Hunter’s plans of ligation have often been employed, but, on the whole, with very disastrous results. I have already presented such an example of disastrous failure. Follin has collected ten instances of arterio-venous aneu- rism occurring in the lower extremity, of which five were treated by placing a ligature on the cardiac side of the lesion, as in Anel’s or Hunter’s opera- tion, all of these ending fatally. He also has collected nine examples of arterio-venous aneurism occurring in the upper extremity that were treated in the same way; three terminated fatally; in five cases there were relapses; in one a cure was reported. The most frequent cause of death was gangrene.® The late Prof. Spence published an example of arterio-venous aneurism of the thigh, which was successfully treated by ligaturing the femoral artery above and below the lesion.7 There are on record a considerable number of cases that were successfully treated on this plan. When it becomes imperative to operate, the proceeding which promises the best result is to carefully dissect the skin from the tumor, having pre- viously applied Esmarch’s apparatus for the bloodless operation, and, on exposing the injured artery, to ligate it above and below the lesion with car- bolized catgut. When feasible, a third ligature should be passed around the channel of communication between the vein and the artery, in order to avoid any possible failure arising from that source. The difficulties attending this operation must not be underestimated; and the surgeon, when about to under- 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1867, January, pp. 44-46 ; April, pp. 339-340. 2 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 612. 3 Military Surgery, pp. 158, 159. 4 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, t. xix. p. 586. Paris, 1874. 5 Bulletino delle Scienze Mediche, Jan. 1880; London Medical Record, April 15, 1880 ; Med. News and Abstract, June, 1880, pp. 363, 364. 6 Med. and Surg. History, etc., Second Surg. Vol., p. 337. Foot-note 3. 7 Edinburgh Medical Journal, July, 1869 ; American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1869, p. 562.