INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 672 Recent cases which prove extraordinarily obstinate may also justify the same heroic measure. In other large joints, such as the elbow, I have often had recourse to this means of facilitating reduction, and believe it to be almost as safe as tenotomy, or as aspiration of an inflamed joint. By it I have succeeded in perfectly restoring joints which had been given up as hopeless, and cer- tainly would have been so by any other means. Ho case has ever come under my care in which this operation has been required in the shoulder, hut I cer- tainly should resort to it rather than leave the joint unreduced, and in pre- ference to resection. [Subcutaneous osteotomy of the humerus has been suc- cessfully employed by Dr. Mears, of Philadelphia, in a case of old, unreduced humeral dislocation, attended by great pain.] Resection of the head of the humerus is a dangerous operation, hut one which may be imperatively called for in cases where the axillary plexus is so compressed as to cause paralysis, and where every other resource has been invoked. The expedient, above described, of making subcutaneous, anti- septic divisions of the soft parts with the tenotome, would probably do away with the need of exsection. Dislocations of the Elbow. Injuries of the elbow-joint occasion many errors of diagnosis, which render it important to consider the means of distinguishing the various lesions met with in this locality. The surgeon should have clearly in mind the four landmarks of this region, which are:— The internal condyle. The external condyle. The olecranon process. The head of the radius. These four bony points always enable the presence of a luxation to be dis- covered. In the systematic examination of an injured elbow, the two con- dyles must first be examined, the patient by preference being anaesthetized, to determine their firmness of attachment to the shaft. When no movement or crepitus can be elicited by forcible pressure, neither the condyles nor the lower end of the shaft are fractured, and the possible existence of this com- mon form of injury is eliminated from the differential diagnosis. After fully determining that the condyles are unhurt, the olecranon process must be sought for, in a position on a line approximately halfway between the con- dyles. The varying length of the inner condyle makes only a slight differ- ence in this respect. y Below the internal condyle, a depression may be felt through the muscles. Below the external condyle, on the other hand, the surgeon should feel the fourth important landmark—the head of the radius—which may be made to rotate by turning the hand. The radial head is the most difficult of the landmarks to discover, but almost always can be identified by making firm pressure, and by rotating the forearm back and forth so as to cause the head to revolve under the fingers. By comparison with the sound arm, it will not be difficult to settle the question of whether there has occurred any forward or lateral displacement of this bone. With the arm flexed, the olecranon should be on a line with the posterior surfaces of the humeral condyles, and, as already stated, half- way between them. A forward or backward displacement of this bony point at once arrests the notice of the surgeon, showing that he has to deal with a dislocation or a fracture.