DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. 315 Operation.—(1) The artery may be ligatured on its emergence from the great sacro-ischiatic foramen by making the same incisions as those employed for exposing the ischiatic artery; the pudic artery is found a little internal thereto, accompanied by its venae comites and by the internal pudic nerve. (2) The artery may be ligatured, in the perineum, as it ascends the ramus of the ischium and os pubis. Draw a line from the middle of the pubes to the inner border of the tuber ischii. Place the patient in the position for lithotomy; make an incision two inches in length along the ramus of the pubis, near the arch ; by careful dissection the artery is found running along the inner border of the ramus, where it may be separated from its venae comites and the internal pudic nerve, and where a ligature may be applied. Care must be taken not to wound the corpus cavernosum. Ligation of the Arteria Dorsalis Penis.—This artery attains the dorsum of the penis by ascending between the two crura and the symphysis pubis, and runs forward, through the suspensory ligament, in the groove of the corpus cavernosum to the glans, distributing branches in its course to the body of the organ and to the integuments. It is enveloped in the subcuta- neous fascia; and is accompanied by the dorsalis penis nerve and vein, which structures must not be injured in exposing and ligaturing the artery. Operation.—Make an incision three-fourths of an inch in length, commenc- ing two inches in front of the pubes, and exactly in the median line, through the skin and the superficial lamina of the subcutaneous layer. Thereby the artery is fully exposed. Pass a small artery needle around it, carefully avoid- ing the vein and the nerve which accompany it. Ligation of the External Iliac Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The exter- nal iliac artery, on each side, runs obliquely downward along the inner border of the psoas muscle, from a point opposite the sacro-iliac synchondrosis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. In front it is in relation with the spermatic vessels, the peritoneum, and a thin layer of fascia, derived from the iliac fascia, which envelops the artery and the accompanying vein. At its commencement it is crossed by the ureter; and, near its termination, by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the circumflex iliac vein. Posteriorly, it is in relation with the external iliac vein, which gi-adually passes to its inner side, where it is found at the femoral arch. Externally, it lies against the psoas muscle, from which it is separated by the iliac fascia. Internally, below, passes the vein, as just stated; and, curving along its side, the vas deferens. It is surrounded throughout its entire course by lymphatic vessels and ganglia. Hear its termination it sends off two branches, the epi- gastric and the circumflex iliac arteries. It is about four inches in length, and its course corresponds to a line drawn from the left side of the umbilicus to a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. It may be ligatured in any part of its course, ex- cepting at its upper and lower extremities. Abernethy''s Operation.—An incision about three inches in length was made through the integuments, in the direction of the artery, beginning a little above Poupart’s ligament, and more than half an inch on the outside of the upper part of the abdominal ring, to avoid the epigastric artery. The apon- eurosis of the external oblique muscle being exposed, was next divided in the direction of the external wound. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle was thus uncovered, and the finger being introduced below the infe- rior margin of it and of the transversalis muscle, they were divided with the crooked bistoury for about one inch and a half. Mr. Abernethy now intro- duced his finger beneath the bag of the peritoneum, and carried it upward