287 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. Ligation op the Innominate Artery.—Surgical Anatowp.—The innominate is the first and largest of the great branches which issue from the arch of the aorta. In length it varies from one inch and a half to one inch and three-fourths. It arises from the right superior portion of the arch of the aorta, in front of the left carotid, and passes in an oblique direction upward, outward, and backward, to the superior margin of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right common carotid and right sub- clavian. By extending the neck, the innominate can be drawTn up and made more superficial. It is in relation on its right side with the right vena innominata, right pneumogastric nerve, and the summit of the right pleura; on its left side, with the left carotid artery and a remnant of the thymus gland; behind, with the trachea; in front, with the inferior thyroid vein and the left vena innominata, a remnant of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles, and the sternum. Mott’s Operation.—Place the patient on his back, with his shoulders slightly raised, his head well thrown back, and his face turned to the left side. The operator, standing on the patient’s right side, makes an incision two and one-half or three inches long, half an inch above and parallel to the top of the sternum and the inner part of the right clavicle, through the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides, commencing over the trachea, and ending over the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Another incision of the same length is then to be made along the anterior border of the sterno-mas- toid muscle, until it joins the first where it began over the trachea, at the middle line. The sternal root and most of the clavicular root of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle are next1 separated by a director from the underlying fascia, and then divided by cutting in the line of the first incision, using a finger passed under the muscle as a guide. The angular flap must be turned outward. Pushing the thyroid veins aside, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thy- roid muscles are now to be carefully raised on a director, cut across, and drawn inward. A little scratching with a probe or handle of the scalpel will disclose the sheath of the common carotid artery, pneumogastric nerve, and internal jugular vein. Next open the sheath of the carotid, and trace the artery downward to the innominate. Separate the pneumogastric nerve from the carotid, draw it with the internal jugular vein outward, and the carotid inward, toward the trachea, and expose the subclavian artery. In uncovering the innominate, the utmost pains must be taken to avoid injuring the right and left innominate veins. Pass the needle from below upward and inward, taking especial care to avoid wounding the pleura. Dr. Valentine Mott, of New York, who was the first to ligature the inno- minate, operated by the method just described, in May, 1818. The patient, however, died on the twenty-sixth day from secondary hemorrhage. SMillot’s Operation.—The brachio-cephalic trunk (says Sedillot) can very easily be reached by following another procedure which I have applied to that artery (Fig. 469), to the primitive carotid, to the commencement of the subclavian, and to the principal branches which issue from it, such as the inferior thyroid and the vertebral. To execute this procedure, make an incision two inches and a half or three inches in length through the integu- ments, along the interval which separates the sternal and clavicular attach- ments of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. This interval is distinctly marked by a depression above the sterno-clavicular articulation. Separate the internal from the external portion, while the head is slightly flexed in order to relax the muscle; then, by turning over the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles inside, or by dividing them on a grooved director, which is preferable, one can perceive at the bottom of the wound