CONCUSSION, COMPRESSION, CONTUSION AND CRUSHING OF NERVES. 549 {anaesthesia dolorosa) is met with. It consists of an insensibility of the skin, with persistence of the spontaneous pains. Paralysis is not a constant symp- tom of slow compression; it is particularly rare to find it accompanied by contractures. The trophic disturbances are analogous to those met with after wounds of nerves ; those most frequently seen are herpes zoster, bullous eruptions, at times gangrenous patches, joint affections, and, finally, muscular atrophy, which may exist without paralysis. Trophic disturbances of the eye have been noticed in cases of compression of the trigeminal nerve by an intra-cranial tumor. In this triad of symptoms—pain, paralysis, and trophic disturbances—the influence of the inflammatory process must not be forgotten. It is to it, pro- bably, that are due the pain and the rapidity sometimes observed in the evolution of the paralysis and trophic disturbances. Indeed, slow compres- sion may occur without sensory phenomena, while the trophic and functional disturbances which it produces may have an insidious course, and for a cer- tain time remain unrecognized, not attracting attention until the occurrence of some accident or disease which is apt to be considered as their sole cause. Weir Mitchell cites, in this connection, the very interesting case of a little boy who limped in walking, and whose lameness was attributed to a recent fall, while in fact it was due to an old typhlitis which compressed the nerves in the pelvis, and had already caused a noticeable atrophy of the muscles of the lower extremity. Unfortunately, as this author remarks, a didactic ex- position of the symptomatology of this lesion is almost impossible, on account of the variations it presents according to the degree of the compression. Diagnosis of Nerve Compression.—Rapid or acute compression of nerves may be confounded with lead palsy, which is distinguished from it by the loss of muscular contractility, by the immunity of the supinator longus, by the ordinarily bilateral nature of the disease, and by the progressive muscu- lar atrophy which accompanies it, and which is characterized by beginning in the adductor muscles of the thumb, by the slowness of its course, by the considerable wasting of the muscles, by the irregular distribution of the atrophy, by the preservation of the cutaneous sensibility, and finally by the cramps and fibrillar contractions which are seen in the muscles beginning to be affected. Slow compression is especially liable to be confounded with the effect of a recent traumatism, and with a cerebral or spinal lesion. I shall not revert to the characteristics which distinguish it from recent traumatisms, as these have been sufficiently described under the heading of symptomatology. Cerebral lesions are recognized by their often sudden onset, by the greater frequency and isolated loss of movement, and finally by the persistent ex- citability of the muscles by electric currents. Lesions of the spinal cord are generally bilateral, and the muscles are still irritable, if the lesion is not too extended ; in the latter case, the other symptoms would leave no doubt as to diagnosis. In cases of anaesthesia of the skin, the procedure of Stich may be resorted. to; if the skin where anaesthesia is present can be made the starting point of reflex action, the lesion is central, but otherwise nothing can be affirmed upon this question. Finally, Weir Mitchell has remarked that in affections of the nerve trunks the sense of touch is lost at once when it is going to be so at all, while in lesions of the nerve centres of a progressive character, there is at first a gradually increasing retardation in the transmis- sion of tactile impressions, before their complete disappearance. Prognosis of Nerve Compression.—The prognosis as regards the local condi- tion is dependent upon the state of the faradic muscular contractility: it is