546 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. groups, according to whether there is or is not a wound of the integument. But this division is not justifiable in every case, for lesions of the nerves which may occur without a lesion of the integument, may also exist when there is a wound of this structure. We will consider: (1) Concussion, compression, contusion, and crushing; (2) Stretching and avulsion—these lesions may occur without a wound of the integument; (3) Punctures, cuts, contused and gunshot wounds, and wounds attended with lodgment of foreign bodies, in connection with which the ligation of nerves will be referred to; and (4) The phenomena consecutive to injuries of nerves, which are found to present certain differences in each variety of wound. I. Concussion, Compression, Contusion and Crushing of Nerves. Concussion.—We will first consider briefly concussion of neiwes, under which head were formerly placed all those functional lesions of the nerve trunks which were unaccompanied by any appreciable anatomical change. Formerly, cases of slight and indirect contusion were referred to this condi- tion, and through its mechanism were explained the disturbances frequently observed in the functions of the nerves in the neighborhood of that which had been wounded. At the present day, however, the progress made in pathological anatomy and physiology has restricted the field of concussion. It may continue to be described as a clinical type, but the attempt is made to connect it with anatomical alterations, as yet, it is true, but little under- stood. The most probable lesion of concussion, according to Tillaux, is a disintegration, or momentary coagulation, of the medullary substance of the nerve. Compression of Nerves.—Rapid Compression: Pathological Anatomy and Physiology.—Rapid, sudden, or acute compression is to be distinguished from that variety which occurs slowly. The former is usually manifested by very intense pains, and its mechanism presents close analogies to that of contu- sion. Slow compression, on the contrary, occasions nutritive alterations, par- ticularly in the muscles, without sensory phenomena of any description. Yulpian and Bastien have experimentally studied rapid compression ; they describe two periods—one of increase, which is limited by the duration of the compression, the other of decline, which comprises the phenomena con- secutive to the compression. Each of these periods includes four stages. In the first period there are: (1) A stage of tingling and formication with a sensation of heat and cramps: this stage lasts from two to ten minutes; (2) An intermediate stage, or that of remission, which lasts from a few seconds to a quarter of an hour ; (3) A stage of hypersesthesia of the skin only; and (4) A stage of progressive anaesthesia, sometimes with persistence or exaggera- tion of the pain, and vague and paroxysmal pains in the muscles, which at first experience a feeling of fatigue, and which subsequently are paralyzed. In the second period there are: (1) A stage of paralysis, without deep pain, continuing two or more minutes; (2) A stage of reappearance of the mus- cular function, and then of sensibility, except the sense of temperature; (3) An intermediate stage, with more perfect return of sensibility and move- ment ; and (4) A final stage, marked by a sensation of cold and weight, gen- eral malaise, nervous erethism, muscular spasms, and formication, with a re- appearance of sensibility to temperature. The experiments of Waller and the labors of Weir Mitchell have essen- tially confirmed the preceding results, the differences relating only to the