256 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. tliers and sisters ; for direct investigation has shown that the average num- ber of legitimate births in bleeder circles is nearly twice the general average. (Immermann.) Hence, haemophilia is a disorder of terrible importance to the welfare of the families concerned. Haemophilia, fully developed, occurs in moles much more frequently than in females. Of 650 authentic cases, there were 602 in males and only 48 in females. In hardly any other disorder is the predisposing influence of sex so strikingly apparent. So, too, in bleeder families, it is much more common for the sons alone to he affected than for the sons and daughters, or the daughters alone. When the disease appears in both sexes in such families, the number of male bleeders usually exceeds that of the female bleeders; and, finally, the in- stances are much more numerous where all the sons without exception are bleeders, than where the disease attacks all the children, daughters as well as sons, or all the daughters alone. Such facts clearly show that the predis- posing influence of sex, in this regard, is not merely a general law governing the gross statistics, but is likewise a radical differential principle, the opera- tions of which are special in character, and discernible even in the smaller groups that are represented by the children of single families. But, while females are far less subject to fully developed haemophilia than males, the actual share of the female sex in case§ which, although not fully developed, really belong to the pathological domain of haemophilia, is in all probability much larger than appears from the statistics just given, or perhaps than can possibly be shown by any statistics. It is not unlikely, as Grandi- dier has pointed out, that imperfectly developed and anomalous outbreaks of the bleeder disposition, which are manifested only transitorily and at certain times, e.g., at the first appearance of the menses, and in childbirth, etc., are really more frequent in females than is commonly supposed, the true relation of these attacks to haemophilia being overlooked. In girls, the diathesis often remains latent to a certain extent, and frequently is first brought into activity by fixed causes apparently connected with the period of reproductive activity. How often may not, indeed, hemorrhage in a hsemophilic puerperal woman have been quoted as the result of defective involution of the uterus, or fatal flooding as the result of atony of the womb ? Moreover, the female sex is in reality to be regarded as the more intensely affected, because it possesses in a far higher degree than the male the capacity for transmitting the disease by inheritance to its offspring. For, as Grandidier also has pointed out, the males in bleeder families who themselves are bleeders, do not, as a rule, beget bleeder children by women who belong to non-bleeder families ; in fact, the children in such cases are usually healthy and non-bleeders; but the children of women who themselves are bleeders are quite uniformly affected with haemophilia. Again, the males in bleeder families who themselves' are not bleeders, almost never beget bleeder children by women from other families; but among the children of women who belong to bleeder families, and are not themselves bleeders, some are almost always found who suffer from pro- nounced haemophilia. In the transmission of this disorder, therefore, the mater- nal influence is far more important than the paternal; and, since the females are but rarely fully developed bleeders, while the male bleeders, either die prematurely, or, as a rule, fail to reproduce the disease in their children, it follows that- the non-bleeder women in bleeder families are, in fact, the most frequent and most efficient “ conductors” of haemophilia, and to them the hitherto constantly increasing spread of this affection is mainly due. The first bleedings of haemophilia take place in very early childhood, in a very large majority of instances. A considerable number of deaths have been reported in Jewish families from the rite of circumcision on the eighth day, as well as similar results in other families from cutting the fraenum lin-