294 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. the tonsil, and the ascending pharyngeal artery; and, posteriorly, with the rectus anticus major, the sympathetic nerve, the pharyngeal and laryngeal nerves, which cross behind it, and, near the carotid foramen, with the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and lingual nerves, and partially with the internal jugular vein. Operation.—The internal carotid artery may be ligatured through the inci- sions just directed for tying the external carotid; the latter vessel being drawn forward, and the internal jugular vein being drawn backward, the point of the needle is cautiously insinuated underneath the artery from with- out inward, its movements being directed by the index finger of the free hand, and extreme care being taken that no structure besides the artery is em- braced within the ligature. Or, make an incision along the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid, three inches in length, from the angle of the jaw to the cricoid cartilage, through the skin, platysma, superficial and deep fasciae; the inner border of the ster- no-mastoid muscle now appears; cautiously separate the connective tissue, draw the sides of the wound apart, and the artery is exposed; draw the di- gastric muscle and hypoglossal nerve upward, and the internal jugular vein outward; the external and internal carotid arteries may now be ligatured both together, or either of them separately (Fig. 474). In 1851, Keith, of Aberdeen, Scotland, tied the internal carotid artery with one ligature, on Hunter’s plan. In July, 1869, Dr. A. T. Lee, of Kingston, Tenn., successfully secured the internal carotid artery by two ligatures, one being applied on each side of an aperture in its walls made by a stab-wound of the neck. This case has already been mentioned in the section on punctured wounds of arteries. In February, 1871, Dr. W. T. Briggs, of Nashville, Tenn., tied the internal carotid above and below with success.1 In 1874,2 a case was recorded by Dr. H. B. Sands, of New York, in which he successfully ligatured the internal carotid artery above and below the bleeding point, for secondary hemorrhage occurring ten days after an opera- tion for the removal of the lower jaw, performed in October, 1872. Ligation of the Superior Thyroid Artery.—This vessel is the first branch of the external carotid, and issues from it one-fourth of an inch below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It curves downward and inward to the thyroid gland, in a tortuous course. At first, it is superficial, lying in the triangle formed by the sterno-mastoid, digastric, and omo-hyoid muscles. Before entering the thyroid gland, it divides into several branches which pass beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. Operation.—Place the patient’s head in an extended position. Make an incision two inches in length along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid, the centre of which corresponds to the great cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Having divided the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides,. and deep fascia, draw the sterno-mastoid outward and expose the omo-hyoid muscle, the internal jugular vein, and the common carotid artery. Then search with the director, or with the handle of a scalpel, for the superior thyroid artery, in the deep sulcus between the upper end of the larynx and the great vessels of the neck, where it is easily found and readily ligated. The needle should be passed from above downward. Ligation of the Lingual Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—This artery is the second branch which issues from the front of the external carotid. It 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1879, pp. 142, 143. 2 New York Medical Journal, January, 1874.