GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 169 2 Circular No. 6, S. G. O., pp. 38, 39. See Contused Wounds of Arteries. from the impact of such missiles. Experience has shown that these arteries may be wounded in such a way as to have their calibres directly opened by musket, rifle, carbine, and pistol-balls, by case-shot, and by fragments of shells. It seems, however, to be necessary for the accomplishment of such a result, that the missile should be moving with great velocity at the moment when it strikes the artery. Hence it happens that bullets are much less likely to penetrate the arteries after they have passed through the compact structure of the long hones of the extremities, than they are before making such a passage through osseous tissue. If the velocity of the missile has been con- siderably lessened ere it impinges against the artery, it may only bruise its tunics ;x but, in so doing, it may cause as much damage to the patient as it would have done by opening its calibre. The solutions of continuity or breaches, produced in the walls of blood- vessels by gunshot missiles, are essentially contused and lacerated in their nature, and usually present some of the features which belong to each of those classes of injury. They can, therefore, he most conveniently considered in this place, that is, immediately after the contused and lacerated wounds of arteries have been discussed. The breaches in the walls of bloodvessels which gunshot projectiles occa- sion may be separated into two important groups:— 1st. Partial or incomplete division of the vessel, considered as a tube for the transmission of blood. 2d. Complete division of the same. We find, on studying attentively the details of this subject, that each of these groups presents peculiarities in respect to phenomena and consequences, of so much importance in both a scientific and practical point of view as to demand for each a separate consideration. Examples of gunshot injury in which the wound of an artery constitutes the sole or even the principal primary lesion are not of frequent occurrence in surgical practice, and are not often met with by surgeons even on battle-fields, although arterial wounds very often present themselves as complications, it is said, of gunshot fractures and other important injuries. On this point the late Dr. Otis, the distinguished historiographer of our civil war, remarks:— “ The number of cases reported under this head is extremely small. In the cam- paign of the Army of the Potomac, from the Rapidan to the James, in May, June, and July, 1864, of a total of 36,508 gunshot wounds, only twenty-seven belonged to this category. The cases of compound fracture complicated with injuries of the large vessels, the cases in which limbs are carried away by solid shot or shell, and the cases in which all the tissues of the limb are disorganized by contusion from a large projectile, and the vitality of the arteries is destroyed, are all returned under other heads. Those only are included in which the canal of a large vessel is primarily opened, and in which this is the principal accident. Such cases are to be sought for among the dead on the battle-field, rather than in the field hospitals.”2 Again, in almost all the cases where an artery of considerable magnitude has been opened by a gunshot missile, which are brought to the surgeon for treatment on the field of battle, the injured vessel is found to be situated in the extremities, in the neck, or in the head, but most frequently in the extremities. Gunshot wounds of the great arteries of the abdomen and the thorax fail to come under the notice of military surgeons, not because these vessels escape all injury, but because, whenever they are opened, death usually very speedily ensues. I am fully convinced from personal observation, that these vessels are frequently wounded in battle; that such injury is, for the