455 ANEURISM OP THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. On the outer side of that broad line, which the anatomist at once knows to be the anterior-tibial tendon, the fascia is to be slit up, exposing a little space between the above-named tendon and that of the extensor proprius pollicis; and in this space the artery is easily seen, with the nerve, unless the incision be unusually low, on the outer side. The artery is here surrounded by two companion veins and their cross-branches, which are bound to it by a thin, sheath-like fascia; and the operator may, if he will, separate these with the eye-end of a probe, or with an aneurism needle; but he will then probably break some of the communicating offsets, and I think it better, upon the whole, to include the companion veins in the ligature. Ligature of the anterior tibial artery above the lower third of the leg must be very rarely required, and then for wound rather than for aneurism. The operation is performed in much the same way as that just described, but the vessel lies deeper, though in the same relative situation with regard to the muscle of like name. This operation is hardly practicable in the upper third of the leg, since the vessel pierces the interosseous membrane from 1J to 2 inches below the tibial tuberosity. The surgeon operating at some point in the middle third of the limb, feels the crest of the tibia, and, estimating the breadth of the anterior tibial muscle, makes a longitudinal incision at that distance from the bone, and, using his finger, clears the deep fascia. He now holds the wound open, and moves it from side to side until he recognizes the whitish-yellow line that marks the offset of the intermuscular septum between the anterior tibial and the extensor longus digitorum;1 and here the fascia is to be split up. Generally the blade of the scalpel may now be laid aside, and the handle used to separate the muscles. In doing this, the operator must be careful to keep the instrument next to the anterior tibial muscle, and to turn the extensor proprius outwards with the common exten- sor of the toes. It may be that he will come to the region of the artery— may even see the nerve overlying it—and yet cannot encircle it by a ligature, because it lies in a separate compartment of the intermuscular septum ; if so, a few cautious touches of the knife must open up this sheath till the nerve is bared, when, by drawing this outward, the artery with its encircling veins is exposed. Artery and veins may then be surrounded by the ligature, which is most readily passed, either with an eyed probe properly bent, or with an an- eurism needle having a sharper curve than usual. There is no difficulty in the operation beyond the depth at which the vessel lies; and this, since no important part lies between the artery and the skin, should be no impedi- ment to its performance. The secret of facility is to carefully avoid dividing, and going astray among, muscular fibres which should be left quite intact.2 Aneurism of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—This is less uncommon. I find in a period of ten years, four cases recorded.3 [Hr. R. A. Kinloch has tabu- lated4 twenty-two cases of spontaneous aneurism of the posterior tibial artery, including one of his own, with seven deaths and fifteen recoveries.] Spon- taneous aneurism of this vessel occupies usually the upper half of the leg, attains a considerable size before it makes its presence known, and forms a considerable tumor, lying at the back of the leg, rather on its inner aspect, 1 Unless the incision be quite in the lower part of the middle third, the extensor proprius pollicis will not have come to the front. 2 The rarity of these cases may he inferred from the fact that I find in the last ten years but one case recorded. (Medical Times and Gazette, April 11, 1874.) Mr. Erichsen failed to cure this case by digital and instrumental pressure, combined with ergotin injections. The man passed out of observation, declining further treatment. 3 British Medical Journal, January 27, 1872; Lancet, May 20, 1873 ; Philadelphia Medical Times, September 25, 1875 ; Dublin Journal of Medical Science, September, 1877. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, July, 1882.