INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 248 in situ. A constriction shows where the external iliac had been tied. The femoral artery appears constricted from imperfect injection. The much expanded and vari- cose condition of the femoral vein is well exhibited.1 The oedematous and cyanotic tumefaction, with gangrenous ulcerations, which the aneurismal varicosities produced in this case, was well marked. The failure of the operations of Anel and Hunter to afford relief was also quite conspicuous. Varicose Aneurism.—By this term is meant a circumscribed traumatic aneurism which communicates on one of its sides with the artery from which it springs, and, on the opposite side, with an aneurismal varix. This lesion is well illustrated by the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 446). Fig. 447. Fig. 446. A varicose aneurism ; the sac lies between the brachial artery and the median basilic vein, and communicates with both. (After Sir C. Bell.) A, the brachial artery; V, the median basilic vein with an aneurismal varicosity ; N, the aneurismal tumor, which is connected with the artery beneath it by a minute aperture, and with the aneurismal varicosity above it by another small opening. The symptoms of varicose aneurism are those of aneurismal varix, just presented above, together with the symptoms of circumscribed traumatic aneurism. On expelling the blood from the vari- cosity by applying direct pressure, the aneurismal tumor still remains. In some very rare instances varicose aneurism has had a spontaneous origin. (See Fig. 447.) A remarkable varicose aneurism involving the aorta at its bifurca- tion, and the vena cava (Syme). A, Aorta; B, Vena cava ascendens ; C, Aneurism ; D, Site of a round ap- erture, somewhat larger than a six- pence, through which communica- tion between the vessels was held. (Bennett’s Lectures, p. 217, Am. ed.) Aneurism supposed to be sponta- neous. Localities of Arterio-venous Aneurism.—Ar- terio-venous aneurisms have most frequently been met with at the bend of the elbow, where they have arisen from punctures during venesection. M. Goupil states that in thirty-one out of fifty- seven cases the lesion was caused in this way. Dr. S. W. Gross has col- lected ten examples in which arterio-venous aneurisms occurred in the neck; in eight there was aneurismal varix, and in two, varicose aneurism. In all of them the internal jugular vein was involved, together with the primitive carotid artery in six instances, and the internal carotid in the remaining four. In none did the lesion appear to shorten life or cause much inconvenience. The lesion was caused by incised or punctured wounds in seven, and by gunshot wounds in three instances. In several of them the aperture in the integuments was so made that it did not gape when the Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surg. Vol., p. 336.