539 APPENDIX. neck. He had sought advice at another dispensary, and at our own, hut he had re- fused to come into hospital until he found that the tumor was steadily progressing, and that in addition to increase of pain he was now unable to work. The tumor, as it now presented itself, was globular and about two and a half inches in diameter, pulsating violently, with evidently very thin walls. It occupied the posterior inferior triangle, its inner margin being close against the outer edge of the Sterno-mastoid muscle. The finger, passed behind the muscle, received a very strong impulse, and the vessel, as far as it could thus be traced towards its second part, appeared to be enlarged. The pulse varied from 130 to 140, and was very full. No pulse could, as a rule, be felt in the right radial artery, but occasionally it could be made out as a faint flicker. The arm could not be raised from the side ; the pain in the shoulder was unbearable, and the patient lay in bed with his left hand grasping that part tightly, as he said that doing so gave him some relief. The heart sounds were healthy; the pupils were regular; there was no cough and no laryngeal irritation. The other functions of the body were natural. The patient was kept under observation for a week, being at the same time treated with tincture of digitalis, but without any impression being made upon the rapidity of the pulse. I then had a consultation with my colleagues, Mr. Stokes, Mr. Thornley Stoker, and Mr. Corley, and 1 also had the advantage of the assistance of Dr. Robert Mc- Donnell and Dr. Bennet, Professor of Surgery in the University of Dublin. The ma- jority of opinion was in favor of attempting an operation upon the first part of the sub- clavian, and, in the event of that proving diseased, upon the innominate. I put the case before the patient, who consented to the proposal; but after an interview with his son, he declined it. He remained, however, in hospital, and I then tried for some time the iodide of potassium treatment, but without any appreciable result. The pulse still continued high, and the tumor increased in size, while the pain in the arm was combated by frequent hypodermic injections of morphia. The patient suddenly took his discharge on the 30th of March, as he said he had “ private business” to transact. He once visited me at my house some weeks afterwards. The tumor had then grown to a considerable size, passing upwards in the neck; the pain kept him from sleeping, for he now had no hypodermic injections. There was no pulsation to be felt in the radial or brachial arteries. He promised to come into hospital next day, but he did not return until the 22d of May. He now stated that during the preceding night the tumor had ceased to pulsate for over an hour. When I saw him, pulsation was as violent as ever; all the local symptoms were aggra- vated, but the pulse had fallen to 100. Measured by the callipers, the tumor now marked three and one-fourth inches in diameter in all directions. A further consulta- tion was held, and ligature was again determined upon ; but on the 29th, the day but one fixed for operation, I was sent for to see the patient. All pulsation had stopped in the aneurism, which was now hard and tense. I resolved therefore to postpone any operative interference. The pulsation returned after about ten hours, and next morning was as bad as before. He had now three minim doses of tincture of aconite every three hours, but the pulse was not affected. On the 31st, pulsation stopped for fifteen minutes, but then recurred, accompanied with great pain. He was now ordered three minim doses of tincture of aconite every hour for twelve hours, the effect to be watched. The pulse-rate, which had been 116, fell to 96; but next morning the pulse was full and bounding at 100. On the 4th of June, the patient said that the tumor had ceased to beat several times, but this was not verified by the resident pupil; the pul- sation was, however, feeble. During all this time, in which I had the benefit of daily conference with my colleagues, the tumor continued to grow in size until it reached three and a half inches in diameter at the base. The movement of pulsation was observed over a large area. When the patient sat up, the shoulder and tlae whole scapular region rose and fell with each pulsation of the aneurism. The hope which we had entertained of spontaneous cure did not appear likely to be fulfilled, and, in face of the fact that the disease was progressing, we unanimously agreed that operation should no longer be delayed. Accordingly, on June 9, when I was favored by the presence of many eminent surgeons, the patient was brought into the operating theatre, and placed in the usual position on his back, with the head thrown well towards the left side, and deeply anesthetized. I