PARENCHYMATOUS HEMORRHAGE. 281 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion. Second Surgical Volume, p. 444. operation, and the dilatation and paralysis of the capillaries which attend that condition; Secondly, the obstruction to the flow of blood from the stump toward the heart, which was caused by the fibrinous plugging or thrombosis of the femoral vein. We must, therefore, count thrombosis among the possible causes of primary parenchymatous hemorrhage ; and its presence will always make the prognosis very unfavorable. To illustrate intermediary parenchymatous hemorrhage, I shall again call attention to the case of Lieut.-Colonel Maxwell, already presented under the head of Intermediary Hemorrhage. The bleeding occurred in a thigh-stump on the second day after a secondary amputation. It was suppressed by open- ing the stump, and painting its raw surface all over with liquor ferri persulph. fortis, by means of a camel’s hair brush. The patient recovered. Another example of intermediary parenchymatous hemorrhage may be found in a case of secondary amputation of the left arm at the shoulder-joint, performed on August 5, 1864. Hemorrhage to the extent of eight ounces occurred on the 6th. The stump was then opened; “ blood apparently oozing from the tis- sues, and was checked by pressure and Monsel’s salt.” The patient’s general condition was very low, and two days afterwards he died.1 To illustrate secondary parenchymatous hemorrhage, the following abstract of a case, which occurred in my own practice, is offered:— Private B. Romig, Co. F, 6th Michigan Cavalry, received on September 23, 1863, a gunshot flesh-wound of the right thigh, at the middle third, and on the inner side. The missile penetrated deeply, and lodged. On the 25th, he was admitted into Stanton Hos- pital. On October 11th, the symptoms of pyaemia appeared; and, on the 23d, the wounded limb was observed to be oedematous. On the 25th, while the patient was sitting' on a chair to have his bed remade, hemorrhage from the wound suddenly occurred to the extent of four or five ounces, and ceased spontaneously. On the 26th, the hemorrhage recurred, and three or four ounces of blood were lost before it again ceased spontaneously. Meanwhile pysemic rigors appeared, and frequently returned. The patient rapidly failed, and died about three o’clock P. M. on the 26th. Autopsy Right lower extremity much swelled and oedematous; on laying open the thigh and groin by incisions along the course of the femoral and iliac arteries, the chain of lymphatic ganglia was found to be very much enlarged in all its component parts. The femoral and other arteries were sound. But the right common iliac, ex- ternal iliac, common femoral, and deep femoral veins were filled with coagulum (ithrombus), which in some parts exhibited a quite recent appearance, but in others was more or less disintegrated and softened by fatty transformation. The walls of the thrombosed veins were likewise very much thickened. The thrombosis had obviously caused the hemorrhage. Hot long afterward, another striking example of secondary parenchymatous hemorrhage came under my care at the same hospital:— Tobias Beaver, a prisoner of war, aged 30, was admitted on November 9, 1863, for a gunshot fracture of the left femur in its lower third, which had been received on the 7th. After some time, the fracture united and the wound of the soft parts healed. At a still later period, osteo-myelitis supervened, in consequence of the lodgment of a part of the missile in the medullary canal. The wound then reopened, and the general health became much impaired. On March 23, 1864, some hemorrhage from the wound occurred. The patient was weak, pale, and anaemic. On the 25th, he had a severe hemorrhage, which was controlled externally by injecting liquor ferri perchloridi; but the thigh swelled rapidly from internal effusion of blood. On the 27th, he died. Autopsy—The thigh was swelled to twice the normal size. It contained a cavity which extended from the synovial pouches of the knee-joint to the trochanter major, and was full of blood and pus, the quantity being estimated at one quart; the external outlet of this cavity was plugged by a hard coagulum. The superficial femoral vein