SYPHILITIC ARTERITIS. 349 Heubner1 holds that the process of new cell-formation in the intima, which has just been described at length, is due to the direct irritation of the current of the poisoned blood upon the endothelia. The inflammation progressing, proliferation of the intima increases, projections into the lumen occur, and Fig. 525. Syphilitic arteritis. Transverse section of a segment of the middle cerebral artery of a syphilitic patient, i, the thickened intima; e, the endothelium ;/, the fenestrated membrane; m, the muscular coat; a, the adventitia. (Prom Barlow’s Specimens, Green’s Pa- thology.) Fig. 526. JE Syphilitic arteritis. Section from a small artery of the pia mater cut transversely, showing the inner coat much thickened, a diminution of the lumen of the ves- sel, and a considerable infiltration of the adventitia. A clot is seen to occupy a great part of the lumen of the vessel. (From Barlow’s Specimens, Green’s Pathology.) narrowing or occlusion is the result. As the endothelial layer is lifted by this undermining, inflammatory process, a lateral projection into the lumen of the vessel (a vegetation) takes place, which may be the starting point of a thrombosis, or of cerebral anaemia. Heubner holds that these lateral, pro- jecting vegetations of the internal membrane are pathological conditions appertaining especially to syphilitic arteritis. It is asserted that syphilitic arteritis can be diagnosticated from atheroma during life. Lancereaux, according to Simes and White, in their edition of Cornil on Syphilis, says that the difference can be recognized chiefly by the occurrence of thrombosis in young subjects, without evidence of disease in • other arteries. The knowledge that the patient has syphilis is a valuable aid to differentiation. (It is not difficult to agree with Lancereaux in this conclu- sion.) Moreover, atheroma is developed especially in the larger arteries, while the syphilitic process is found in the smaller, and by preference in the cerebral vessels ; and, lastly, the young suffer from syphilitic arteritis more frequently than from atheroma. I agree with the last-named observer that the differential diagnosis during life of the two arterial lesions, syphilitic and atheromatous, is extremely diffi- cult, if not impossible. Moreover, these lesions very often exist at the same time. Of the 22 cases quoted in the table from Greenfield, after excluding seven in which the condition of the arteries was not noted, we find that of the re- maining fifteen, in thirteen there was atheroma of the aorta (and some of the 1 Cornil on Syphilis.