WOUNDS OP VEINS. 215 found largely opened by ulceration.1 This case is probably unique, for Dr. S. W. Gross asserts that there is not a single recorded instance of death from this accident following a gunshot injury of the internal jugular vein. 2. In the next example of air in veins, the axillary vein was accidentally opened while searching for the artery : Private E. C. Melley, Company K, 2nd West Virginia Mounted Infantry, was wounded November 6, 1863, by a musket-ball, which entered one inch and a quarter below the middle of the clavicle, and emerged near the middle of the inferior border of the scapula. When admitted to hospital on the 18th, an enormous tumor of coagulum distended the axillary space in every direction, and rendered the surrounding tissues tense ; the subcutaneous veins covering it were enlarged. During his removal to hospital, considerable blood was lost from the anterior orifice ; the posterior orifice was closed and nearly healed. On the 19th, an attempt was made to secure the axillary artery in the midst of this immense clot, at the place where it was wounded. But, in searching for the artery, the axillary vein was accidentally opened ; the entrance of air caused syncope, and death ensued in from seven to ten minutes. After death the axillary artery was found almost completely divided about one inch before it becomes the brachial.2 This accident has most frequently been observed in the great veins at the root of the neck and in the armpit. The internal jugular was the seat of the mishap in twelve instances collected by Dr. S. W. Gross, with six deaths and six recoveries. Ten of them occurred while extirpating tumors of the neck, with five deaths and five recoveries; and two in cut-throats or attempted suicides, with one death and one recovery.3 To these twelve cases a thir- teenth, just now related, must be added, in which death from air in veins followed a gunshot lesion of the internal jugular. Moreover, these cases show that the accident is more liable to occur when the vein is opened near its termination in the innominate, as at this point, as well as throughout almost the whole of its lower third, the phenomena of venous inspiration may be witnessed, that is, the free sucking of air and blood, at each inspiratory effort, into the open mouth of the vein, when wounded or divided by an external injury. This accident, too, has not unfrequently occurred in the subclavian and axillary veins. I have already presented one example in which the axillary was wounded, that occurred during our civil war. In a cage recorded by Delpech, there was hypertrophy of the axillary vein, causing it to gap like an artery, so that the air entered in when it was opened. Bransby Cooper4 having secured the vessels after amputating an arm at the shoulder- joint, proceeded to remove a gland from the axilla, and, while dissecting it out, heard a peculiar gurgling noise, like air escaping with fluid from a narrow-necked bottle ; the patient instantly became collapsed; countenance deadly pale; pupils fixed and inobe- dient to light; pulse quite small and fluttering, although, at intervals, regular ; respira- tion hurried and feeble, and, at irregular intervals, attended with a deep sigh; left leg apparently paralyzed. She continually uttered a whining cry. Symptoms of great prostration continued for several days, but she eventually recovered. When she left the hospital, six weeks after the operation, she still dragged the left leg in walking. While Roux was disarticulating an arm at the shoulder by the method of Desault, a peculiar whistling sound of air was suddenly and very distinctly heard. Pallor, syn- cope, convulsive movements, and death ensued. Autopsy—Right ventricle soft, and distended with a mixture of air and blood; globules of air in the coronary veins; con- tents of vena cava superior, spumous.5 1 Med. and Surg. History, etc., First Surg. Vol., pp. 255, 256. 2 Ibid., p. 555. s Loc. cit., pp. 38, 39, 329, 333, 338, 339. 4 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxvii. p. 14. 8 Journal des Connaissances Medico-Chirurgicales, Septembre, 1836, pp. 108, 109.