106 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. ciously employing the antiphlogistics mentioned above, when union by the first intention cannot be obtained. When, however, the loss of blood has been very great, or the patient has barely escaped with his life, and lies very low in consequence of it, something quite different must he done. In the first place, great pains must be taken to avoid the occurrence of a fresh syncope, for, with the highly anaemic condition of the brain already existing, it might readily prove fatal. His head must, therefore, be kept in a depressed position, in order to make the blood gravitate toward his brain from the other parts of his body. His head must not even be raised for the brief moment of time required to slake his thirst, which is apt to be intense; but drink must be freely given him through a bent tube, or from an “ invalid’s cup,” long ago devised for the purpose, while his head remains low or depressed. The arms and legs of the patient must not be allowed to hang down from the couch on which he lies,, because the blood w'ould gravitate into them away from the brain, and thus the cerebral anaemia would be increased. On the contrary, the limbs may be raised up with ad- vantage, and likewise be tightly bandaged from fingers and toes to trunk, in order to lessen the area of the circulation as much as possible, and thus secure more blood for the brain. The drink should consist of lukewarm milk, to which a little good wine or brandy is added, and should be given with a view to rapidly replenish the empty bloodvessels; and, as soon as it can be prepared, freshly made beef-tea should also be given. But the quantity and the effects of the alcoholic stimulants are to be closely watched, lest harm be done by their unrestricted use. The fumes of strong liquor ammonise should be applied to the nostrils in order to increase the frequency and depth of the respiratory movements. Fresh, cool air should be freely admitted to the patient; but, at the same time, the coldness of his body should be combated by the applica- tion of dry heat. During the convalescence from exhausting hemorrhages, tincture of the ferric chloride, good wine, and a generous diet are chiefly the means by which the anaemia, the debility, the cardiac palpitations, and the nervous irritability are to be overcome. In many cases, however, something further still is required from the surgeon; and that something is the operation of transfusion, performed in order to save life. This operation may be defined to be the injection of the blood of one person into the bloodvessels of another, for the purpose of summarily effecting the relief of extreme exhaustion. Transfusion.—In many instances that occurred during the late civil war, great losses of blood, from wounds which did not kill at the time, were fol- lowed by a state of anaemia and general debility from which the patient could not be raised by even the most assiduous employment of the most nutritious kinds of food and of the choicest forms of alcoholic stimulants, with the chloride of iron, or the citrate of iron and quinine; and the conse- quence was that such patients perished miserably from anaemic exhaustion some considerable number of days after the bleeding had been arrested. The correctness of this statement is attested by numerous cases related in the Medi- cal and Surgical History of the War. How, in looking back over my own experience during this period, I have no doubt that some, perhaps most, of the cases of traumatic hemorrhage belonging to this category, which came under my own observation, might have been saved by transfusion, if seasonably performed. For this reason, I believe that the operation of transfusion will hereafter prove very useful in military as well as in civil practice, and that it justly claims the serious attention of all surgeons. The various modes of performing the operation have already been described in the first volume of this work, and I do not intend to repeat them here; but with a view to