INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 568 If, instead of a favorable case, we suppose a case in which the regeneration of the nerve does not occur, there is no ascent of the faradic curve, and the galvanic curve, after being elevated, falls again to the normal, and then con- tinues to sink until the reaction becomes null; the excitability of the muscle and of the nerve is then abolished for ever. Do the same phenomena occur in man, as in animals which are made the subjects of experiment ? Precise observations are not sufficiently numerous to permit this fact to be definitively affirmed. It is not to be forgotten that Professor Yulpian has called in question the certainty of the reaction of degeneration. A minute study of these electric phenomena in the trau- matisms of nerves, is then necessary before we can apply in all certainty to man the results observed in animals. (3) Nutritive Disturbances.—I do not purpose giving here the history of the general question of trophic disturbances of nervous origin. Limiting myself to that which concerns lesions of the nerves, I will say that Professor Charcot published, in 1859, the first observations of herpes zoster, consecu- tive to a traumatic nerve-lesion. A few years afterwards, the writings of Paget, in England, and especially the remarkable work of Drs. Mitchell, Morehouse, and Keen, in America, made known most of the nutritive alterations which may be determined by a nerve wound. . The names of Brown-Sequard, Samuel, Yulpian, Mougeot, and Couyba, are also connected with this question, and it will suffice to have mentioned them before beginning the enumeration of the various disturbances which it is proposed to study. I shall first describe the cutaneous lesions, as they are also the first to attract attention. These lesions are very variable; we may see them ranging from a simple, smooth redness of the skin, to deep alterations of the derm, without being able to explain by a distinct cause the diversity of these mani- festations. All that is known, is that the effects vary according as the section of the nerve is complete or incomplete. This is a fact upon which the American surgeons have with reason insisted. The cutaneous lesions, as well as the other trophic disturbances, are especially observed in cases of incomplete section. A glossy redness of the skin, with or without bullous elevations of the epi- derm, is one of the most frequent phenomena. It has been variously named “ glossy skin,” “ eczematous eruption,” and “ erythema.” The skin of the fingers, according to Paget, is smooth and shining in the most marked cases; the affected fingers are ordinarily tapering, glossy, hairless, devoid of wrin- kles, and shining, with a more or less deep-red color, uniform or in patches, as in chilblains. This glazed redness occupies the fingers, the palmar surface of the hand, and the dorsal surface of the foot. It is ordinarily accompanied by violent neuralgic pains, and by the very painful burning sensation which has already been mentioned under the name of causalgia. The redness may exist alone, but more often it is complicated, as in a burn of the first degree, with the formation of larger or smaller phlyctcence. At times these are small vesicles, disseminated or in groups; sometimes large bullae, which raise the epiderm over the limits of the erythematous redness. These bullae, filled with a lemon-colored serum, may rupture and leave the derm exposed, leading to the occurrence of persistent ulcerations, and to an increase of the smarting pains. The 'pemphigoid eruptions still more frequently give rise to the formation of obstinate ulcers; they are rapidly developed, generally upon the fingers. The fluid which they contain is serous, sero-sanguinolent, or sero-purulent. When the epiderm ruptures, there remains a more or less deep ulceration, which is ordinarily very long in cicatrizing.