TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY COMPRESSION. 67 II. Compression. This mode of treatment consists of applying to the bloodvessels a sufficient degree of pressure to stop the circulation through them, or to prevent the escape of blood from their open mouths, when wounded. The compression is called lateral, when the pressure acts upon the sides of bloodvessels, and perpendicularly to their length or course. It is denominated direct, when the pressure is made upon the ends of divided bloodvessels, or within the apertures of those that are wounded, in a line coinciding with their length or course. It is styled immediate, when the means or the instrument through which the pressure is exerted acts upon the bleeding orifice itself without the interven- tion of anything else, that is, immediately. By many this mode of compres- sion is also called direct. It is entitled mediate compression when the pressure is brought to bear upon the vessels through intervening tissue or soft parts. Lateral compression may be made on a bloodvessel at the place where it is wounded, or between it and the heart; or, again, it may sometimes be required beyond the wound, that is, on the distal side thereof. Lateral compression, when applied to arteries, pushes them before it, and crowds them into the soft structures upon which they rest. How, if these structures have no solid support, they yield; thus the compression is evaded, and it proves insufficient to arrest the flow of blood, however strong it may he. Hence, lateral compression can be usefully applied only to such arteries as have beneath, and not too far distant, a solid support in the shape of hone. Compression of arteries may be effected with the fingers, with pads, tampons, or compresses, with tourniquets, and with Esmarch's apparatus for bloodless operations. Digital Compression, in violent hemorrhages from recent wounds, is well adapted to stay the bleeding until ligatures can be applied. When a finger commands an artery, there is no danger as long as its command continues. Digital pressure may be applied immediately to the bleeding apertures in the vessels themselves, by inserting the fingers into wounds. In a considerable number of cases related in this article, compression employed in this way saved life, when, otherwise, it could not have been preserved. In many in- stances this proceeding can he executed by the patient himself. But, digital compression may be laterally applied to arteries, with success, whenever they run near enough to bones for a fixed point of resistance to be afforded thereby. The following are the principal places where this use of pressure made with the fingers can be employed:— For the common carotid artery, the fore-part of the side of the neck, between the larynx and the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, is the place where that vessel can be compressed against the transverse processes of the vertebrae. To effect this, the thumb of the opposite hand (e.y.,that of the right hand for the left carotid, and vice versa) should be placed at the inner edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, opposite the lower edge of the thyroid cartilage, and thrust backward, downward, and inward, so as to force the artery away from the vein and against the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae; the fingers crossing the median line of the nape, but making no counter-pressure. The energy of the compressing force can be much increased by adding to it that of the other thumb. By many it is held that the com- mon carotid artery may, with peculiar advantage, be compressed against the so-called tubercle of Chassaignac on the transverse process of the sixth cervical