CONTUSED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 137 Another case is related in the “ Surgical History of the Crimean War: ”— P. Ryan, aged twenty-one, on June 8, received a canister-shot wound (supposed) through the left thigh at its upper part, involving the track of the femoral vessels. On the 16th, gangrene of the foot appeared, and the leg was amputated just below the knee. On the 18th, gangrene attacked the stump; on the 19th, it extended up the thigh ; and on the 20th, death occurred. Autopsy : “ The ball was found to have passed through the thigh internally to the sheath of the femoral vessels, which it had grazed, but not opened. The artery at this point was slightly contracted for a space about an inch in length, but pervious, and containing no coagulum ; and, beyond the contraction, its calibre showed no marks of inflammation. The vein, however, was not only also slightly contracted, but its internal surface was inflamed and filled with partially organized lymph, as far up as the entrance of the deep iliac vein, and downward for about two inches from the wound. Its course was thus entirely sealed ; but nothing like pus could be found in the femoral or iliac veins, nor in the venous system any- where.” 1 Here gunshot contusion of the femoral vessels caused inflammation with contraction of their walls, and thrombosis with occlusion of their canals; in the artery, however, the blood-clot appears to have been swept into the branches, producing em- bolism of the same, and consequently, gangrene of the foot, leg, and thigh, in successive stages. These fouT examples show very clearly what disastrous consequences may follow the bruising of bloodvessels and their sheaths by the strokes of passing bullets, or by other adequate means. The usual ecchymosis of the bruised part may be attended with hemorrhage into the sheath, compressing and par- tially occluding the vessel itself; to be followed by inflammation of the walls of the injured vessels with thrombosis, or embolism, and gangrene from ar- rested blood supply. But if the extravasated blood be absorbed, and if the inflammatory process be not kindled in the bruised vessels, then the obstruction to the circulation may prove but temporary, and complete recovery may eventuate, as happened in the following instance:— John English, aged twenty, on June 22 received a wound from a musket ball which passed through the thigh. The wound was directly in the course of the femoral vessels. As he was reported to have lost a quantity of arterial blood on receipt of the injury in the trenches, it was feared that the femoral artery had been wounded. The temperature of the limb was sensibly diminished, and the pulsation of the arteries in the foot could not be discerned for several days. The patient was exceedingly restless, and complained of pain and numbness in the calf of the wounded limb. No hemorrhage, however, occurred; the limb regained its natural temperature, and recovery slowly followed.2 A widely different and a comparatively frequent type of arterial contusion next claims our attention ; a type which is characterized by the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. Among the consequences of simple contusion that are most to be dreaded, where large arteries are concerned, is ulcerative in- flammation and sloughing of the injured vessel. In some of these cases, the bruised fibres of the arterial tunics are too greatly damaged to retain their vitality ; hence they must be detached by an ulcerative process which may open the canal of the artery. Contused differ from other wounds chiefly because the stricken part may suffer a loss of vitality, and will have to ulcerate or slough away before any reparation can be effected; inflamma- tion is supposed to be necessary to the consummation of this process. In other instances, a destructive inflammation per se is kindled in the bruised vessel, either by the depraved general condition of the patient, or by his un- wholesome surroundings, or by bad treatment, -which also may open the canal of the artery and cause secondary hemorrhage. I can most clearly, and at 1 Surgical History of the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 343. 2 Ibid.