255 HAEMOPHILIA, OR THE HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. unquestionably their combination that constitutes the chief characteristic of haemophilia. (Immermann.) It is just these two attributes which chiefly distinguish haemophilia from other hemorrhagic affections, particularly scurvy and purpura hemorrhagica. All of the other forms of hemorrhagic dia- thesis, especially the two just mentioned, present neither of these attributes, but are essentially acquired and transitory processes. Hemophilia, on the contrary—at least as far as we can judge from the clinical phenomena—does not appear in any true sense a pathological process or morbid “accident,” but rather an abnormal “condition” of the living organism, and probably depends for its material substratum not upon any tissue-change which runs a definite course, but rather upon an original vice of structure. History and Geographical Distribution.—Our knowledge of haemophilia as a specific disorder is, excepting the reports of a few ancient cases, entirely a modern acquisition. Toward the close of the last century, reports of families whose members were peculiarly subject to it began to be published in England (1784), in Germany (1793), and in America (Hew York, 1794). The word “bleeder” appears to have been first used in America, nevertheless, it is to German writers that we are principally indebted for our knowledge of the subject. This disorder, geographically, is not uniformly distributed, but is much more prevalent in some countries than in others. For, of 219 families, in which occurred 650 authentic cases, 94 lived in Germany, 52 in Great Britain, 23 in North America, 22 in France, 10 in Russia and Poland, 9 in Switzerland, 6 in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark, 2 in Holland and Belgium, and 1 in the island of Java; total, 219. (Immermann.) Thus, it appears that the Anglo- Germanic race is peculiarly susceptible to this disease. The Latin races, however, are not entirely exempt, for France is credited above with 22 bleeder families. Etiology.—Family transmission is unquestionably the most striking and important of all the known causes of haemophilia. Grandidier speaks of it as “the most hereditary of all hereditary diseases.” Immermann finds that the 650 authentic cases of bleeders have been distributed among 219 families, or very nearly three bleeders to a family. In fact, when one case occurs in a group of blood-relations, other members, sooner or later, are almost always affected. The disease, when having its starting-point in a single individual, or in several members of a family whose parents and ancestors were entirely free from it, is capable of direct transmission from one generation to another. For instance, the disease could be directly traced in two of the American bleeder families through the entire interval from 1720 to 1806; and of two unrelated bleeder families at Tenna, in Granbiinden, one at least has been affected since 1770, and in the two families together the affection had gained such headway by the year 1854, that, at Tenna alone, out of a total popula- tion of 165, there were at that date no less than 15 bleeders. But the most important mode of propagation is by means of what may be called indirect transmission. Thus, after one or more cases have appeared among the chil- dren of healthy parents, the disorder is usually handed down, not as much by the bleeders themselves as by their non-bleeder brothers and sisters, and this singular mode of transmission of the outward manifestations of the disease may be repeated for several generations. A very large number of actual bleeders die from the disease so early in life as to be unable to take any share in the propagation of the anomaly. But the bleeder families pre- sent another remarkable peculiarity, to which attention was first called by Wachsmuth, namely, the extraordinary fruitfulness of the non-bleeder bro-