234 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. view—by which they are attended. The dictum of Jourdan, that surgery is powerless in lesions of arteries within the cranial, thoracic, and abdominal cavities, should be expunged, because it is not true. If the surgeon, with cautious temerity, explore a penetrating wound of the abdomen or pelvis with his finger, he will not unfrequently discover that a hemorrhage which threatens life proceeds from a vessel which he can ligature above and below the wound with carbolized catgut; and thus he may save his patient from an otherwise certain death. Extravasation of blood into the peritoneal cavity may proceed from wounds of the abdominal aorta and its branches; or from wounds of the ascending vena cava and its tributaries; or from lesions of the vena portalis and its ramifications; or from lacerations of the viscera, especially the liver and spleen. The sudden occurrence of a copious extravasation of blood into the abdo- minal cavity is indicated by the sudden appearance of the well-known consti- tutional signs of hemorrhage, even without any external bleeding, in cases where wounds penetrate the abdominal cavity or involve the organs contained in it. These signs are pallor of the face, and of the surface generally, from bloodlessness; faintness; smallness, quickness, and feebleness of the pulse; cold sweats, etc. A slow, gradual bleeding into the abdominal cavity may, however, continue unsuspected to a dangerous or even to a fatal extent, so slight are the symptoms caused by it. For instance, Follin mentions a case in which death resulted from the puncture of a terminal ramification of the mesenteric artery by a bayonet, and in which the hemorrhage was not sus- pected until revealed by the autopsy. The hemorrhage from a ruptured liver or spleen should be treated by placing the patient on the injured side and enforcing absolute immobility, by applying ice-poultices over the injured organ, and by freely administering gallic acid, with ergot, and with dilute sulphuric acid, to assuage thirst. To allay pain and quiet apprehension, opium or morphia must be exhibited. The same plan of treatment should be applied to all the hemorrhages which occur into the abdominal cavity without external wound, to those from ruptured veins, and arteries, as well as to those from ruptured viscera.' Moreover, phlebotomy must be rejected in all of them. But in cases where there is an external wound which penetrates the ab- domen, the possibility of restraining the hemorrhage by ligaturing the injured vessel must always be considered. It is a disgrace to modern surgery that patients should be allowed to die of internal hemorrhage, in cases of wounds penetrating the abdominal cavity from the front or the sides, without any effort being made to save them by cautiously exploring the wound with a, finger, ascertaining through the sense of touch the source of the hemorrhage, and securing the bleeding vessel with carbolized catgut ligatures. Sometimes- the blood flows inwardly into the peritoneal cavity, from a wounded artery belonging to the abdominal walls, such as the internal epigastric, instead of escaping externally. In such a case, the exploration of the wound with a finger may instantly reveal the source of the bleeding. And then the surgeon can make his patient secure without delay, by enlarging the wound so as to bring the injured vessel into view, and tying it on each side of the aperture with carbolized catgut. I have already dwelt upon the disastrous conse- quences of neglecting this paramount procedure. I also believe that operative interference should be carried in this direction to the utmost verge of the limits which prudence enjoins. Examples are not wanting in which branches of the mesenteric, epiploic, gastric, and colic arteries, have been successfully ligatured. If the finger, introduced into a wound penetrating the belly, recognizes the warm jet of a bleeding artery, the bleeding point must be exposed and securely tied. It would be more rational to ligature even the