57 SPONTANEOUS ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. which I have distinguished in the experiments by the name of the external coagulum, presents the first complete barrier to the effusion of blood. This coagulum, viewed externally, appears like a continuation of the artery; its termination can be distinctly seen with the coagulum completely shutting up its mouth, and inclosed in its sheath. The mouth of the artery being no longer pervious, nor a collateral branch very near it, the blood just within it is at rest, coagulates, and forms, in general, a slender conical coagulum, which neither fills up the canal of the artery nor adheres to its sides, except by a small portion of the circumference of its base, which lies near the extremity of the vessel. This coagulum is distinct from the former, and I have called it the internal coagulum. In the mean time the cut extremity of the artery inflames, and the vasa vasorum pour out lymph, which is prevented from escaping by the external coagulum. This lymph fills up the extremity of the artery, is situated between the internal and external coagula of blood, is somewhat intermingled with them, or adheres to them, and is firmly united all round to the internal coat of the artery. The permanent suppression of the hemorrhage chiefly depends on this coagulum of lymph ; but while it is forming within, the extremity of the artery is further secured by a gradual contraction which it undergoes, and by an effusion of lymph between its tunics and into the cellular membrane surrounding it; in consequence of which these parts become thickened, and so completely incorporated with each other, that it is im- possible to distinguish one from the other ; thus, not only is the canal of the artery obliterated, but its extremity also is completely effaced, and blended with the surround- ing parts. When the wound in the integuments is not healed by the first intention, coagulating lymph, which is soon effused, not only attaches the artery firmly to the subjacent and lateral parts, but also gives it a new covering, and completely excludes it from the external wound, which then goes on to fill up and heal in the usual manner. The circumstances now described are observed also in the inferior portion of the artery, or that which is supplied with blood by anastomosis ; with this difference only, that its orifice is generally more contracted, and the external coagulum is much smaller than the one which adheres to the mouth of the superior portion of the artery, or that from which the bloOd flows in its direct course from the heart. From this view of the subject we can no longer consider the suppression of hemor- rhage as a simple or mere mechanical effect, but as a process performed by the con- current and successive operations of many causes; these may briefly be stated to consist in the retraction and contraction of the artery; the formation of a coagulum at its mouth ; the inflammation and consolidation of its extremity by an effusion of coagulable lymph within its canal, between its tunics, and in the cellular substance surrounding it.1 When the arm is tom off at the shoulder, the bleeding often is hut slight, and ceases spontaneously, because the internal and middle coats of the arteries are broken off short, while the external coat and sheath are dragged down and twisted over the torn ends of the arteries in such a way as to afford a ready lodgment for an occluding coagulum or plug, whereby the further out- flow of blood is prevented. In such cases the arteries may he seen hanging out of the wounds, and pulsating down to their very ends, which are usually contracted to mere points, the hemorrhage, at the same time, being completely suppressed. In such cases it may also be observed, that with every pulsation the end of the torn artery is thrust downwards, but that it recoils again during the intervals between the pulsations. This fact proves that arteries are en- dowed with extensibility and elasticity, as well as with contractility and retrac- tility. The details of this subject given above, although numerous, are drawn wholly from the experience of competent observers, and their presentation has been deemed necessary for a correct understanding of the different ways in which Nature suppresses hemorrhage from arteries both small and large. It is not difficult to understand why hemorrhage is much more apt to cease 1 On Hemorrhage, pp. 53 et seq. London, 1805.