392 ANEURISM. of the aortic arch, growing forward, must he very big before it can be felt to pulsate on the front of the chest, while an aneurism of the first part of the aorta, increasing in the same direction, will pulsate through the costal car- tilages very much earlier. So, also, an aneurism arising between the pillars of the diaphragm, cannot he detected by clearly-marked pulsation as early as one on a level with the third or fourth lumbar vertebra. Nor can at any time the tumor be grasped or manipulated, so as to verify the expansile beat above described. The existence of certain aneurisms, especially within the thorax, may often be suspected, and sometimes clearly diagnosed by a corre- lation of certain symptoms, effects of pressure, etc., before any pulsation can be distinctly verified. But to this subject we must return. Pressure Symptoms.—The symptoms which I have classed together under the name extrinsic, are those which are produced on the neighboring parts by pressure, and it seems that in this pressure there is something peculiar, as we do not see the same intense effects produced by other tumors; probably the special quality lies in the beat, that is to say, in the intermittent nature of the force. We find, therefore, that when an aneurism impinges upon bone, it effects its absorption sometimes with surprising rapidity; it also dis- places and absorbs solid soft tissues very quickly ; if it come in contact with nerves, it flattens them out and causes troubles according to their function; and if in apposition with a tube, occlusion takes place: thus, for instance, veins, trachea, bronchi, oesophagus, and ducts are closed by the growth. Hence it will he evident that the pressure symptoms of aneurism must vary with the locality; many of them will require careful study in connection with aneu- risms of special arteries, but we may here describe the more common of such symptoms as they occur in the limbs. Enlargement of veins and oedema below the seat of disease are common in aneurisms of such arteries as lie close to veins. Hence different locali- ties exhibit these symptoms variously as to their time of appearance and their degree; not only so, but aneurism of an artery will in one case be accompanied by early and strongly marked oedema, while in another case the symptom is of later occurrence and never becomes prominent. For instance, innominate aneu- rism may be primarily manifested by oedema of the left supraclavicular region and left arm—swelling of the right side being late or never occurring; in other cases, the oedema will manifest itself first and chiefly on the right side. Cer- tain subclavian aneurisms will be chiefly evidenced by swelling of the same side of the neck, and, if on the right side, by teasing cough or aphonia, while the first symptom in other cases is agonizing, remittent pain running down the arm. When the disease affects either common or external iliac, or common femoral, oedema of the leg and thigh is very nearly alw’ays an early and well- marked symptom, while aneurism of the aorta, just above its bifurcation, may produce the same result in both lower extremities. (Edema, in any of these diseases, may be the first thing which attracts the attention of the patient. Thus in 1867, a man came to me complaining of nothing but a swelled leg and thigh, which he said felt heavy and stiff, but were not painful. He had no idea whatever that he had any severe malady, attributing the swelling to a severe catarrh which he had lately caught; I found, just beneath Poupart's ligament, an aneurism about the size of a hen’s egg. When a nerve is so placed as to cross or lie upon the tumor, it usually be- comes flattened and thin; the pressure is rarely sufficient to entirely close the tubules, but often produces numbness, and some degree of anaesthesia; the sense of weakness, so often mentioned by patients, is doubtless often due fi> similar mechanical effects on the motor portions of the nerve. This partial closure and stretching of the cords is accompanied by intense shooting and