INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 112 required, and then applying two ligatures to the artery, one on each side of the aperture. It shows why cases treated with proximal ligatures only' are liable to prove, and not unfrequently have proved, fatal from a return of hemorrhage, the blood regurgitating through the distal portion of a wounded artery tied proximally on the establishment of a collateral circula- tion. And, finally, this case is historically important, as being the first where the internal carotid artery has been successfully secured with two ligatures for traumatic hemorrhage. The next case occurred in the person of a soldier during the war of the rebellion. He was accidentally wounded by a bayonet-thrust in the right buttock, at Milwaukee, March 18, 1864, and was returned to duty July 12. He entered University Hos- pital, New Orleans, August 29, and was furloughed September 19. He entered the Marine Hospital, Chicago, September 30, and died October 11. At the time of injury there was bleeding to the amount of fifteen ounces. The urine was drawn by catheter for four days, and contained much blood. Great swelling in the iliac fossa and right buttock occurred immediately. The patient was sent to his regiment in Arkansas, after two months, but he could hardly walk with the aid of a cane. He suffered from what he described as “ hammering pain” in the tumor, which was observed to pulsate. To- pical applications afforded no relief. When admitted to Chicago Hospital, he was suffer- ing great pain in the tumor and right lower extremity. He was anaemic and presented the constitutional symptoms attending great loss of blood. The tumor was red and glistening, and extended from the crest of the right ilium to the natal fold. The cica- trix of the bayonet-stab was nearly in its centre, and beside it was a puncture recently made for exploration by a surgeon on the transport steamer. The puncture was dilated to the size of a half-dollar and filled w ith coagula, through which, October 2, arterial blood escaped. There was numbness of the limb and dysuria. A bruit, but no audible pulsation, was found on auscultation. On October 2, an injection of perchloride of iron in solution was resorted to, with temporary arrest of hemorrhage, and injections were repeated on recurrence of the bleeding. It was decided to tie the common iliac. Fig. 415. Diagrammatic drawing of the incision in Isham’s case of ligation of the right common iliac artery, for traumatic aneurism of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery, caused by a bayonet-wound. The bayonet-stab on the right buttock is also shown. On October 7, the operation was performed by Dr. R. N. Isham, the patient being under chloroform. A curvilinear incision was made from in front of the extremity of the twelfth rib downward and forward to the crest of the ilium (Fig. 415), and along the crest, terminating near the anterior superior spinous process. The muscles and transversalis fascia were successively divided, and, the peritoneum being held out of the way by two fingers, the deep wound was enlarged to the extent of the external incision.