34 INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. early use of antiseptic lotions. After the complete evacuation of the pus, the wound should be dressed with glycerine and carbolic acid (1-8), and after- wards, when the suppuration has subsided, with iodoform, 1 part, cerat. cetacei, 7 parts; and light pressure with a spica bandage should then bring about a cure (Bradley). Hueter speaks highly of the early injection into the glandular parenchyma of carbolic acid (3 per cent, solution), but I have had no experience of its efficacy. In some cases a peculiar undermining of the integuments occurs, when the burrowing sinuses, with no disposition to heal, must be slit up, and the tracks treated by caustics antiseptically. Scraping away the granulation tissue by means of Volkmann’s spoon is frequently of value, and, if large surfaces be exposed, they may he conveniently covered by Reverdin’s plan of transplantation of cuticle. The writer has found terebene of great value in this condition after buboes in the groin. The proper treatment of the caseous infiltration of glands is their total extirpation. In cases of chronically enlarged, painful glands, the injection of a few minims of tincture of iodine by means of a subcutaneous syringe will frequently bring about absorption. Pressure by means of a well-adjusted truss has been tried with good results. Varicose Lymphatics. (Synonyms: Lymphangeioma ; Lymphangiectasis.) Owing to the difference in the anatomical arrangement of the reticular and tubular lymphatics, there are differences in the dilatations of the trunks and networks. The dilatations of the latter are most frequently observed on the inner aspect of the thigh, the external genitals, and the side of the abdomen. The condition is readily diagnosed; the little boiled-sago-like eminences, which are translucent vesicles, are readily emptied by pressure, and when punctured exude lymph. Dilatations of the superficial trunks are more frequent than those of the reseaux, and differ in appearance, inasmuch as they are, as might be expected, ampullary in shape, and are almost inva- riably associated with oedema of parts below the tumor. As far as regards the varicose condition of the deeply-seated lymphatic trunks, there can be little doubt that it is the starting point of the lymphangeioma, a compara- tively rare condition closely allied to the angeioma, only that the fluid contained within the mesh-work is lymph instead of blood. Cystic dilatations of the lymphatics are usually found in the tongue (macro- glossa), in the lips (macrochilia), and in the neck (hydroma). They have, how- ever, been met with in other parts of the body, such as the axilla and groin. With regard to macroglossa, there would seem to be a lymphangiectasis, then a lymphangeioma, and then its transition into an angeioma, when the bloodvessels proliferate in the lymph spaces. In macrochilia there is a pre- ponderating development of the lymph vessels. It is a pale, very soft swell- ing, and can be easily emptied by pressure. The hyperplasia affects the mucous membrane more than the entire lip substance. I have observed, on one or two occasions, a curious blubber-like oedema of the lips following exposure to cold or damp weather, the lips protruding in such a manner as almost to render the individual undistinguishable. This has been in persons of the so- called lymphatic temperament, and has subsided of its own accord. With regard to the cystic hydroma of the neck, Busey states that “ Billroth, Liicke, Roster. and others, have classed the congenital cystic hydroma of the neck among the cavernous lymphangeiomata. These consist (Weichselbaum) of connective-tissue trabeculae, within whose branches and intercommuni-