PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS TUBERCLE. 605 tion in the same individual, though it is exceptional to observe more than one at a time. This affection has no direct influence upon the general health, hut it is scarcely necessary to say, that the existence of violent, frequent, and pro- longed paroxysms necessarily affects nutrition, and causes a more or less rapid enfeeblement, which, again, facilitates the return of the painful crises. Pathological Anatomy.—It is the pathologico-anatomical study of painful subcutaneous tubercle, which may give rise to doubts in regard to its ex- istence as a distinct disease; in opposition to analogous clinical features, indeed, very different results are obtained by microscopical examination; fibromata, myomata, angeiomata, fibro-mxyomata, true neuromata, chondro- mata, lipomata, even carcinomata, have, during life, caused symptoms of the affection under consideration. Fibromata, however, according to most authors, constitute the majority of these tumors. We have seen that painful subcutaneous tumors are generally single; their seat is usually in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, especially at the points where the skin is in direct relation with the bones and articula- tions ; the regions where they have been observed, in order of frequency, are the legs, face, back, fingers, mammae, and scrotum. But their origin is not always so superficial; in Fock’s case, the tumor was implanted upon the peri- osteum of the tibia, and it was intra-articular in two cases of Busch’s. These tumors never reach a large size; they are ordinarily not larger than beans. We have seen that they usually become adherent to the skin after a certain time. Their shape, generally rounded, and their external appearance, vary very much with the nature of the tumor. But these differences are only distinctly appreciable when the tumor is in our hands. When the growth is a fibroma or myoma, the surface is smooth and pearly, the consistence solid and elastic, while the appearance of the section recalls that of fibrous tumors of the uterus. The histological examination shows fibrous elements interspersed with nuclei and a few fusiform, fibro-plastic bodies, or smooth muscular fibres, without any trace of nerve-filaments either in the limbs, upon the surface, or in the interior (Follin, Lebert). The majority of these tumors are, as it were, encysted by a fibro-cellular envelope. But while admitting the existence of these painful fibromata, it cannot be denied that true neuromata may occasion the same symptoms (Virchow). The tumor may present the characters of the fasciculated neuroma (Labbe and Legros), of a fibro-myxoma inclosing in the midst of its stroma myelinic nerve-fibres (Chandelux), or of a telangiectasic neuroma (Schuh); or it may even recall the structure of a hypertrophied Pacinian corpuscle (Axman-n). Other cutaneous or subcutaneous tumors have also occasioned the symp- toms of painful subcutaneous tubercle; I need only cite the case of carcinoma of the skin reported by Dupuytren in his lectures, and two very interesting cases of Busch, where the pain was determined by very small, true, intra- articular chondromata arising some distance from the articular cartilage of the femur in one case, and from one of the phalanges of the thumb in the other. Histological examination showed that these tumors were formed of pure hyaline cartilage, completely deprived of nerves. Pathogenesis and Nature.—It is seen, in short, that the relation of lesion to symptom is not yet well established in regard to this affection, apd that it can- not, without forcing the facts, be admitted, with Follin, that the tumor of true painful subcutaneous tubercle is always a fibroma, or positively distinguish- able from neuroma, of which it may present the structure. The opinion of Broca is less positive; this author thinks that every subcutaneous tumor