171 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. * Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 420. femoral, the carotids, the axillary, and the brachial, are involved. But wounds inflicted at long range by the same class of projectiles, may be attended with contusion of these arteries; or, from their resiliency, they may escape all appreciable injury. An important fact connected with this case, wherein the main artery of the upper extremity was cut half-way across by a cylindro-conoiclal ball, only one inch below where it is called subclavian, is that the bits of cloth carried into the wound by the ball, and the occurrence of syncope, stopped the primary hemorrhage. Another important fact is, that the bleeding was restrained for nine days, that is, until the bits of cloth, pieces of flesh, and occluding clots had become loosened and detached by suppuration. The following abstract and woodcut (Fig. 424) present us with another instance and illustration of the incomplete division of a large artery by a cylindro-conoidal missile:— Fig- 424. A corporal, aged 22,1 was wounded May 3, 1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the nose and escaped near the right ear, having shattered the right superior maxilla in its course. Slight hemorrhage began on the 9th, but it yielded to compression. It recurred, however, several times with great profuseness ; the patient became frantic with alarm, and prevented all attempts at compression, etc.; and died, rather suddenly, from hemorrhage, on the 11th—eight days after the casualty. The specimen is represented in the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 424), which shows the terminal portion of the common carotid, the first portion of the in- ternal carotid, and the external carotid from its origin up to and beyond the site of the gunshot lesion of its walls. In this case the primary hemorrhage, which doubt- less was severe, ceased on the approach of syncope; for the bruised anti lacerated tissues surrounding the track of the ball afforded a good lodgment for a coagulum shot-wound of the external to plug the wound, and thus stop the outflow of blood. carotid; near *he origin of the mi 1 -i ° .n -.it internal maxillary artery. (Spec. lne hemorrhage was restrained until the sixth day, 2222, sect. 1., a. m. m.) when the bruised and lacerated tissues, or the slough, surrounding the hole made by the ball, began to get loose, preparatory to their discharge by ulceration. The following abstract and woodcut (Fig. 425) also illustrate in a useful manner the partial division of a large artery by a gunshot projectile:— A soldier,* aged 25, on July 3, 1863, received a gunshot wound of the neck and face. On the 9th, secondary hemorrhage from the external carotid artery, to the extent of twelve ounces, occurred. On the 10th, the common carotid was ligated, three-quarters of an inch below the bifurcation. The hemorrhage did not return ; but, on the 13th, the patient died. The specimen is represented in the annexed woodcut, which shows well the lesion of the external carotid, the ligature in position on the terminal portion of the common carotid, etc. (Fig. 425.) As in the last case, so in this, the hemorrhage was restrained by the coagu- lum that plugged the wound until the sixth day, when the slough began to separate. But the secondary bleeding which then occurred was arrested by tying the common carotid artery, and did not return. The patient, however, died three days after the operation, probably from anaemic exhaustion caused 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 396 ; also, Catalogue of Army Medical Museum, p. 455.