531 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. subclavian branches must allow a large stream through the artery. It has been done twice under the mistaken idea that the carotid was already oblit- erated (Wardrop, Broca), and once purposely (Bryant). All the patients survived some time, and appear to have been to a certain extent benefited. [Blackman’s and Laugier’s cases (the latter a deligation of the axillary) both proved fatal.] For aneurism of the aortic arch, the left carotid has been tied eleven times; in the first few cases, the disease was supposed to be of the carotid,1 but the operation has since been performed by others,2 with the direct intention of benefiting an aortic aneurism. The four cases of mistaken diagnosis, and the first three of the intentional operations, did well. Pirogoff thus operated on a woman with aorto.-innominate aneurism—not the procedure to be selected; Kuster, on a man who had fusiform aneurism of the aorta and extreme car- diac hypertrophy.3 I have thus operated twice. My first patient was greatly improved, but died four months after of visceral disease. The next opera- tion was undertaken at the desire of a physician, somewhat against my convictions; both carotid and subclavian were tied, as the aneurism extended far to the left. The man was rapidly approaching death when the vessels were tied, and I do not think that the end was either hastened or postponed.4 Mr. Heath has also operated twice; his second case was unfortunate, the patient dying very quickly from syncope. Thus of the eleven cases, seven did remarkably well; four badly; proba- bly all four—certainly two of them—were ill chosen. [The editor has tabulated5 thirteen cases, including one of his own, of carotid ligation for aortic aneurism, more or less relief having been obtained in six.] Arterio-Venous Aneurism.6 A few words must be said concerning a form of disease involving not only the arterial trunk, but also the neighboring vein, or an adjacent venous cavity, which indeed essentially consists of an interparietal communication between the area of the one and of the other. In former times, when venesection was so frequently practised as often to be entrusted to unskilful hands, this disease was very common at the bend of the elbow, and indeed, since other external aneurisms were treated after one method, that of Antyllus, the ingenuity of the older surgeons was chiefly exercised upon this condition. Anel himself, whose name is still attached to one form of arterial deligation, first practised his method on an aneurism of this sort at the bend of the elbow (see p. 433). But as we shall see, the disease may be spontaneous, and is by no means confined to this situation, but may occur in any part of the body where an artery and a vein are in juxtaposition.7 The disease assumes two forms, viz., aneurismal varix, when the artery opens directly into the vein, the edges of the two holes being in contact, and adherent; and varicose aneurism when between the two vessels is interposed a distinct sac, into which they both open. 1 Montgomery, O’Shaughnessy, Rigen, Tilanus. It was these cases that prompted Dr. Cockle’s paper and suggestion ; Heath was the first to carry it into effect. 2 Heath, Holmes, Barwell, Pirogpff, and Kuster. 3 Das Herz war ungemein gross. 4 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lxiv. 6 Op. cit., p. 565. 6 That form of arterio-venous disease which consists in an enlargement of the arterioles and venules—viz., aneurism by anastomosis or cirsoid aneurism—has been described in the preceding article. 7 Usually, the communication is formed between vessels that are normally in contact; but even this is not essential.