500 ANEURISM. and so to the face and parts outside the skull. The operation, however, having relieved the blood-pressure, and the current being very indirect, coagulation, though slower than in arteries whose branches anastomose by less patent communication, nevertheless takes place. The nearer to the bifurcation is the opening between sac and artery, the slower cceteris paribus is solidification. I use the words “ other things equal,” because a large aneurism with a small mouth consolidates more quickly than a small one with a large orifice. Before going on to study the mortality of tying the common carotid artery, it is necessary to consider its effects upon the brain. On this subject we have a variety of tables, which vary considerably; I will place their results in their chronological order:— Whole number Cases attended with Per of cases. cerebral complications. cent. Norris1. . 138 30 21. Ehrmann2 . . 213 47 22. Pilz3 . . 482 154 32. Lefort4 . . 241 73 30. Wyeth5 . 789 53 6.7 The death-rate of those affected with such symptoms varies, in the'se several authorities, from 56 to 73 per cent. When we consider the marvellous freedom of circulation in the brain, and remember tnat its tissue must he saturated with nutritious fluid always migrating from the vessels, quite sufficient to last until the momentary local anaemia has passed away; and wThen we reflect that in consequence of hemor- rhage at distant parts, or from other cause, complete syncope and coma often must render the brain all but bloodless for lengthened periods without per- manent ill results, it is, I submit, impossible to attribute these alleged cere- bral effects to the obstruction of one only out of four large streams that supply the organ. This view is greatly corroborated by certain cases in which, one carotid being already plugged, the other has been tied; and still more by 29 cases recorded by Pilz, in which one carotid was tied a certain time after that on the other side had been ligatured. Of these patients 8 died, 21 recovered. Among the fatal cases is one (Longmore) of gunshot injury, which appears to have been, rather than the operation, the immediate cause of death. Cerebral disturbance occurred in but five of these cases. Wyeth records 33 cases in which both carotids were tied at intervals varying from three days to six years (in one case of gunshot injury both vessels were tied simultaneously). Of these cases 9 only died, five of the deaths occurring in cases of gunshot wound and hemorrhage, and the fatal result being due to the injury rather than to the operation. So low a death-rate shows that cerebral anaemia can hardly be produced by tying a single carotid. The same thing is shown by the case of Dr. Smyth, who, 54 days after tying the right carotid, ligatured the vertebral on the same side; yet no brain symptoms were observed. Rossi, too, tied the right carotid of a patient who after death was found to have the left carotid and right vertebral obliterated; during the six days of his survival, the brain was nourished through the left vertebral alone. In no instance of tying the innominate, which operation cuts oft’ all the right blood-supply of the brain, have cerebral symptoms been observed. We must, therefore, seek some other cause for the large percentage of brain complica- tions ascribed by some authors to carotid deligation. I believe it may be 1 I exclude the distal method and deligations undertaken for the cure of cerebral affections. 2 Des effets produits sur l’encephale par P obliteration des vaisseaux qui s’y distribuent. Paris, 1860. 3 Archiv fur klinische Chirurgie, Bd. ix. S. 257. 4 Gazette Hebdomadaire, 1864 and 1868. 5 Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery, p. 120. This author speaks of delirium, convul- sions, and other slight cerebral symptoms as occurring in 18 other cases.