439 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. a rarity, occur even in the third or fourth week,1 probably is due to phlebitis at the seat of ligature. The prodromata of gangrene are increasing numbness, and a sense of weight and helplessness in the limb, followed by anaesthesia of certain parts—as the instep or back of the toes—while its further progress is marked by the appear- ance of a dusky-red or purplish spot, usually on or about the instep or back of the hand, while the toes or fingers become white. Then vesications form, with some oedema, which is especially well marked if the gangrene arises from venous causes. Afterwards the afl'ected and previously red skin blackens, cracks, and gives exit to some blood-stained serum. Inflammation, suppuration, or sloughing of the sac may occur after the Hun- terian ligature, sometimes even a long time after. Their pathology and symp- toms have already been detailed (p. 407); their numerical frequency for different vessels will be discussed in the next part of this article. The separation of an insoluble ligature is always a subject of anxiety. The question • whether the ends of the severed artery have been sufficiently sealed to resist the force of the circulation, must always be present. This closure of the vessel is pro- duced in part by retraction and folding in of the inner and middle coats divided by the ligature; in part by the adhesion of clot, above and below, to the wall of the vessel. Evidently a short clot, only a few lines long, offers less security than one of considerable length; hence the axiom, much insisted on when ligatures were always of insoluble material, never, unless absolutely obliged, to tie a vessel in close proximity to any considerable offset. To place, namely, a silk or other insoluble ligature on the superficial femoral, immediately below the origin of the deep branch, is to court secondary hemorrhage, by leaving between that offshoot and the ligature too short a space for the firm adhesion of the upper clot.2 The surgeon should know for each vessel the average time at which the ligature “comes away.” From the common carotid, subclavian (third part), and external iliac, it drops in from 21 to 30 days; from the superficial femoral, in from 11 to20 days; from the brachial, in from 8 to 14 days, according to the part tied. As the threads hanging out of the wound keep up suppuration and prevent healing, it is desirable to get them away as speedily as is compatible with safety; but they never must be pulled off so as to sever the vessels by force. The rule of prac- tice is, when the periods above specified have passed, to make gentle traction, and, if the cord do not follow at once, to desist. If after a considerably longer interval the ligature is still retained, a rather stronger pull may be given, since it happens occasionally that, even though the vessel be ulcerated through, the noose of the ligature, hitching in the opening in the sheath, or on some neighboring fascia, is retained. In a few cases threads have from this, or from some other unexplained cause, kept their hold even for months. Temporary Ligature.—The dangers and troubles of a wound are aggra- vated by the presence of a foreign body twisted around the vessel. The not in- frequent mishap of secondary hemorrhage, and the constant fear of such an event as long as the ligature remained, were defects that became only too evi- dent as soon as Hunter’s successes caused deligation to be a common opera- tion. Dr. Jones, in his strictures on the action of the ligature, thought that 1 Dr. Hargrave published a case (Dublin Medical Journal, March, 1865) of gangrene com- mencing on the thirty-first day. 2 This example is chosen as the simplest. Many localities might be named, as the upper half- inch of the external iliac, the upper part of the common femoral, just below the epigastric and deep circumflex ilii, the lower end of the right common carotid, the first part of the subclavian, etc. It is to be noted that some recent experimentalists have thrown doubt on the value of the occlud- ing thrombus, but, as we shall see, on insufficient or misinterpreted evidence.