54 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Spontaneous Arrest of Arterial Hemorrhage. This point of doctrine has much practical importance, and therefore should be discussed in all its details. For Nature to durably stop the bleeding from wounded arteries, it is primarily requisite that the arteries themselves should be completely divided by the accident or the operation. When we closely scan the faces of large wounds, such, for instance, as are made in cut- ting off limbs, after the first sudden gush of blood is over, we see but little if any flow of blood, except that which comes forth in distinct and plainly visi- ble streams; thus it is evident that the mouths of almost all the multitude of minute vessels shown in well-injected preparations of the tissues, become closed immediately after the vessels themselves are divided. The contact of the amputating knife, supplemented by that of the air, and of cold, induces the muscular fibres at the exposed ends of these vessels to contract so much as to close the small ones completely, and to lessen the size of all considerably. Whatever hinders this contraction of the vessels prolongs and increases the bleeding. Hence large bleedings sometimes issue from the comparatively small vessels that pass through or are connected with firm and close struc- tures, as, for instance, the small arteries in or near the aponeuroses and fasciae, or in the compact portions of the skin, e.g., that of the face, etc. So, too, in parts which are inflamed, or adjoin the seat of active disease, the dilated vessels bleed largely and long when divided, because of the loss of contractile power in their muscular coats. Gradually, with or without surgical aid, all the vessels divided in an ope- ration, or accidental wound, become closed and cease to bleed; very frequently also the larger arteries are helped to this end considerably by the retraction of their extremities into the inter-muscular connective tissue, and still more by the formation of coagula within and over their constricted orifices, and by the diminished force of the cardiac contractions and blood-pressure' which results from prolongation of the hemorrhage. Coincidently, the flowing blood becomes gradually brighter and paler. And, if the wound be left open, after pure blood has ceased to flow, there is an oozing of blood-tinged, serous-look- ing fluid; and this is gradually succeeded by a paler fluid, some of which collects, like a whitish film or glazing, on the surface of the wound. It con- tains very numerous white blood-corpuscles, imbedded, apparently, in a fibrinous film. (Paget.) The spontaneous arrest of hemorrhage from divided arteries is brought to pass by the coincident operation of several distinct agencies, which are the following:— I. Contraction of the Artery.—Contraction of the artery at the place of division ensues, the consequence being that the orifice is either closed com- pletely, an occurrence which generally comes to pass when small arteries are severed; or that the orifice is closed in part, that is, constricted, a result which not unfrequently is attained when large arteries are divided. This closure or constriction of the bleeding orifice, which almost uniformly attends the com- plete division of small arteries in wounds, is due to contraction of the muscular and elastic fibres belonging to the several coats of the artery which circle immediately round the orifice, under the stimulus of the wound itself, or of the atmospheric air, or of the external cold to which it is exposed. More- over, the surgeon is not unfrequently called on to assist Nature in stopping arterial hemorrhage by opening and clearing out the wound so as to lay the bleeding apertures completely bare to the action of fresh cool air, cold water,