ANEURISM. 408 is carried away in the blood current. The disease reverts to its former condition, except that the sac wall is probably softer, more distensile, and more fragile than before. But in some rare and most fortunate cases, the tumor, which at the first advent of inflammation became more tense and had a more violent pulsation, ceases either slowly or suddenly to beat, becomes harder, and, when the inflammation has subsided, may begin slowly to diminish. Suppuration, another result of the inflammation, may at first involve simply surrounding tissue, or the aneurism alone; more commonly it attacks simul- taneously both parts. Wherever the commencement may be, it is a highly dangerous condition, which, however, though it usually results in loss of limb or life, may lead to cure. An inflammatory abscess adjacent to an aneurism runs the usual course: enlarges, points, is opened, or bursts; pure unstained pus comes away, if the inflammation have been severe and extensive enough to close with clot not only the aneurism, but also the implicated vessel; and, if time enough have elapsed to permit the formation and adhesion of coagulum, no further acci- dent may arise. Unfortunately, the course of events is more often thus: the artery may never have been filled with clotted blood, or, if so, only with friable clots which soon soften and break down, so that a few hours or days after the discharge of pus, a gush of bright blood, which 'may be either sud- den or preceded for some hours by sanguinolent pus, places the patient in such imminent danger that amputation is urgently demanded. Or the abscess may open into the aneurism before pointing on the skin ; or, again, suppuration may occur within the sac and in its neighborhood simulta- neously. The symptoms of the former condition, prior to bursting or open- ing, are obscure, but when either of those events occurs, the admixture with the pus of loose, tawny-purple coagula, and generally of fibrine in lamellae, sufliciently indicates the nature of the case. Suppuration within the sac, which must always be looked for when there is reason to believe that as a result of inflammation it has become filled with passive clot, is marked by extreme tension and hardness, some increase of size, and a sense of throbbing in the non-pulsating tumor, the pain being considerable and imparting a peculiar sense of bursting. The occurrence of hemorrhage when an opening, artificial or otherwise, is made, depends upon the presence and density of clot in the vessel, rather than in the aneurism; it must always be remembered that, although no bleeding may occur at the time of opening, the vessel may, by breaking down of the soft clot, become permeable, so that a sudden gush may destroy the patient, or that slighter and recurrent hemorrhages may cause the loss of either limb or life. A few cases have occurred1 in which, after discharge of pus and clots, and after one or more attacks of hemorrhage, the abscess has contracted, the bleedings have ceased, and the patient has been cured of the aneurism; the process whereby this takes place is obscure, and the event is too rare to affect prognosis. Gangrene of the sac is also extremely dangerous, but not as often from imme- diate hemorrhage as from exhaustion and its results, because the gangrenous condition is usually accompanied by inflammation sufficient to close the vessel. It is not common in deep aneurisms surrounded by cellular tissue; but attacks rather those that grow so rapidly as to press upon more sensitive parts without affording them time to accommodate themselves to the disturbance, and it is especially liable to occur when the skin becomes rapidly stretched. This structure, when gangrene threatens, becomes shiny on the surface, of a dusky 1 See Broca, Des an^vrysmes, etc., p. 167; Hodgson, p. 103; and Crisp, p. 107.