ANEURISM. 402 the more severe symptoms of the larger form of rupture will after a time super- vene. If now rest be enforced, and if the aneurism be situated among firm tissues, coagulation of the effused blood may occur, and thus a fresh consecu- tive sac may be formed; after a time pulsation returns, the tumor again becomes defined, and the patient regains his former state, the aneurism, how- ever, being larger.1 More rarely still, after clotting of the extravasated blood, that which is contained in the sac may likewise become consolidated. Another mode of rupture, which takes place, unsuspected, much more com- monly I believe than is usually supposed, is a slow leakage from between the laminae of the clot which generally forms, in part, the sac of every aneu- rism which has attained a certain size, and which is not fusiform. Ho consti- tutional signs mark the moment of such an occurrence, even if it can be said to have a definite commencement: the oozing is intermittent; during, and for a certain time after its occurrence, the pulsation either ceases or is greatly diminished. The after events depend in part upon the submission of the patient to rest and quietude, but chiefly upon the sort of tissue in which the aneurism lies. If this be firm, the blood becomes circumscribed; if it be lax, as at the root of the neck, in the axilla, or in the prevertebral region, large non-circumscribed extravasations may form, and that without signs of hemor- rhage, since the slow and gradual loss tells upon the system in much the same way only as any wasting disease. I can hardly illustrate this condition better than by the following case:— Case IX—In December, 1877, a man was in Charing Cross Hospital with a tumor in the left supra-clavicular region. This tumor bore no resemblance to aneurism : it seemed to spring from under the upper margin of the scapula and the trapezius, and to extend forward towards the clavicle; it was soft, but not quite soft enough to be called doughy, of very unequal consistence, and nodulated on the surface ; it had neither pulsa- tion nor bruit. The transversalis colli and the supra-scapular arteries could be felt beating in their course over the surface of the tumor which pressed them forward. The pulse on the left side was a little weaker than on the right, but the difference was not more than could be accounted for by pressure of any swelling or tumor on the subclavian. At the time of my first examination, I heard only a very indefinite history of aneurism; but I learned that the man’s arm had been cedematous, and that he was a sad drunkard. He had a pale, sodden, lymphatic appearance. I negatived the diagnosis of aneurism, believing the tumor to be of a glandular nature, and that it had probably first originated in irritation of lymphatic glands, produced by their giving passage to a quantity of cedematous fluid. In March, 1878, Mr. Hulke, under whose care the man had been in the Middlesex Hospital, read a paper on the case, detailing how he had cured the patient of subclavian aneurism by rest and low diet. I confess that the diagnosis seemed to me now still clearer, for Mr. Hulke’s skill in diagnosis permitted no doubt of what had been the man’s disease when he had been under that surgeon’s care ; and if Mr. Hulke had cured in that man a left subclavian aneurism, how could a growing tumor, above and behind the clavicle, be such an aneurism ? The late Mr. Maunder and Mr. Morrant Baker suggested the idea of ruptured aneurism, but Mr. Hulke himself negatived the suggestion. Some time, I suppose nearly a year, afterwards, chance threw this man, then an in- mate of a workhouse infirmary, in the way of Mr. Baker. At that time, the condition of the parts affected was in an exaggerated degree that which had been described by me while he was in the Charing Cross Hospital. “ An enormous, semi-solid mass occupied the supra-clavicular, infra-clavicular, and axillary regions,2 and in this no pulsation could be detected.” After another interval, the post-mortem record follows : “ An immense diffused aneu- rism was found occupying the whole of the left side of the neck, from trachea to ver- 1 The increase having been so rapid or sudden should lead to a strong suspicion of what has occurred. 2 When I saw him, the supra-clavicular was the only region involved.