PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 125 Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries.—Punctured wounds of the gluteal region often prove very troublesome and unsatisfactory in their management, because they pierce the gluteal or ischiatic arteries far clown beneath the gluteal muscles, or penetrate the cavity of the pelvis through its notches or foramina, and open the internal iliac artery itself, or one or more of its four or five important branches, within the pelvis. In such cases the surgical diagnosis is always difficult, and often impossible. In such cases, whenever practicable, the wound should be explored by introducing a finger into it for the purpose of locating by the sense of touch the precise point whence the blood issues by jets into the wound. If the punctured artery is found to be external to the pel- vis, the bleeding point in it should be laid bare by enlarging and cleansing the wound, and the vessel should be secured by ligatures placed on each side of the aperture. But if it be shown by the occurrence of intra-pelvic extrava- sation of blood, or by other signs, that the internal iliac artery, or some branch thereof, is wounded within the pelvis, it will be impossible to reach and tie the punctured artery in the wound. Under these circumstances, it sometimes becomes very difficult to decide what plan of treatment should be adopted. One thing, however, ought never to be done: the solution of the perchloride or the persulphate of iron must never be injected into the track of the wound through the gluteal muscles, in order to restrain the bleeding in such cases, because the internal bleeding from the wounded internal iliac artery or branch thereof cannot be restrained thereby, and the presence of these salts of iron in wounds generally does much harm. Under these cir- cumstances, the first thing to be tried, in most cases, is compression. It should be applied to the common iliac artery, and, at the same time, to the wound itself, if possible, with a view to obtain coagulation of the blood in, and obliteration of, the wounded artery. The very desperateness of these cases makes it all the more necessary to use the compression faithfully, intelligently, and persistently; otherwise, a traumatic aneurism will form. If we are suc- cessful in applying pressure to the common iliac artery, for arresting hemor- rhage from the internal iliac artery or its branches, there quickly forms at the mouth of the wounded artery a clot of blood which prevents further hemor- rhage ; but if the compression be not properly applied, if it be not sufficiently strong, or not continued long enough to obliterate the vessel, the clot quickly becomes detached, and forms a so-called false consecutive aneurism. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 418) shows the arteries of the pelvis, together with the internal epigastric and circumflex iliac, in situ. I cannot better show the extremely grave importance and very difficult nature of these injuries than by relating a few cases that occurred during the late war:— A soldier, aged 24, was wounded in the right buttock, May 9, 1864. He did well, apparently, until June 27, when hemorrhage of an alarming character occurred, and twenty-five ounces of blood were lost. It was checked outwardly by compression, but he sank, and, on the 29th, he died. The necroscopy revealed an immense accumula- tion of blood under the gluteus maximus, and the sac of what had been an immense traumatic aneurism, following a wound of the ischiatic artery. Seven additional in- stances in which this artery was wounded, were reported during the war, all of which proved fatal.1 Two cases were treated by tying the artery itself, apparently with single proximal ligatures, one case by tying the internal iliac, one case by tying the common iliac, and one case by applying the actual cautery ; but all in vain. Internal Pudic Artery.-—A soldier, aged 27, received a bayonet wound of the left pelvis, April 25,1862. 1 Medical aDd Surgical History, etc., Second Surgical Vol. pp. 326, 332, 333.