INJURIES AND DISEASES OP MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL possible by therapeutic or operative measures to get rid of the primary trou- ble. The use of heat, electricity, anodynes or anaesthetics may be required for the prompt relief of the pain. Ruptures op Muscle.—Laceration of muscular fibres may be consequent upon either blows from without or the force of the muscle’s own contraction; may vary in extent from the slightest tearing, hardly more than simple stretching, to complete pulpification; may be recovered from speedily and perfectly, or may terminate in destruction of the part or even in loss of life. When the result of contraction, this in a healthy state of the tissues is never, or almost never, voluntary ; but is a sudden violent movement of a muscle, off its guard, as it were, and unsupported by its associates. When, how- ever, because of existing general disease the muscular fibres have undergone such changes as render them in a high degree brittle (the granular or vitreous degeneration), rupture not infrequently takes place in consequence of volun- untary movements even of slight amount. Such an accident is most often met with during the later stages of typhoid fever, but it has also occurred in cases of scarlet fever, yellow fever, .and other acute, grave pyrexias ; the muscles most frequently damaged are, in the order of relative frequency, the rectus abdominis, the rectus and adductors of the thigh, the gastrocnemius and soleus, the psoas, and the flexors of the forearm. External violence may cause rupture of any of the superficial muscles, and, at times, undoubtedly of some of those which lie more deeply. Symptoms.—The occurrence of muscular rupture is indicated in typical cases by sudden, sharp pain, accompanied with the sensation of a snapping in the injured region; by characteristic deformity, a well-defined depres- sion—not infrequently, indeed, a wide gap—existing at the place of rupture, with decided swelling above; by extravasation of blood, indicated by swelling and color-changes in the skin, coming on early or late according as the torn muscle is near to or remote from the surface, and varying in amount from the slightest effusion to one of such extent as to constitute a veritable hsematoma; and by impairment of function, the ability or inability to move the part supplied by the injured muscle depending upon the extent of the laceration. While all these symptoms may be and generally are found more or less clearly manifested in cases occurring in healthy individuals—certainly in all cases of complete rupture of an external muscle—they very often will not be recognized in cases of laceration occurring in the progress of general diseases, unsuspected rupture of large and important muscles being not infrequently discovered upon post-mortem examination. Secondary Effects of Muscular Rupture.—The effects produced by these injuries will depend upon the muscle affected and the extent of its damage. Slight lacerations will be completely recovered from; and more extensive, or even complete separations, especially of the muscles of the extremities, will usually be followed under proper treatment by little impairment of functional integrity. When one of the abdominal muscles, especially the rectus, is extensively damaged, intestinal obstruction simulating strangulated hernia, or peritonitis, may be developed, and the latter, if not terminating fatally, may cause fixation of a part of the intestinal tube to the abdominal wall. Treatment.—In the management of muscle-rupture, as in the analogous injury of bone (fracture), the essential principles of treatment are the putting the parts in apposition and then keeping them there. The difficulty in accomplishing these desired objects lies in the retractibility of the tissue damaged, this not only causing wide separation at first of the divided ends,