INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 176 received in battle. In other words, that the great arterial tranks are often divided at very close range by the small projectiles, hut very rarely at long range.” The velocity of these projectiles is, of course, very much greater at short, than it is at long range. I shall illustrate the principal facts pertain- ing to the division of arteries by small-arm missiles, by presenting a number of well-authenticated examples. In the first three cases the carotid artery was involved:— Private James B. Morrissey, Co. B. 34th United States Infantry, was shot through the neck, at Grenada, Mississippi, March 28, 1868. The missile entered two and one- half inches below the lobe of the left ear, and emerged on the right side of the nape one inch and a half from the spinous processes. The carotid artery was severed, and death was almost instantaneous.1 Private George Robinson, Co. D, 40th U. S. Infantry, was shot on August 26, 1868, by the officer of the guard, for mutinous conduct at the United States Army post, Goldsborough, N. C., with a Colt’s navy revolver, in the neck, the ball severing the carotid artery. Death from hemorrhage resulted almost immediately, September 13, 1868.2 Major John A. Thompson, 7th U. S. Cavalry, was wounded by a pistol-ball while engaged in suppressing an affray between a party of soldiers and desperadoes, near Fort Mason, Texas, on November 14, 1867. The missile struck the right malar bone, and emerged below the left ear, severing the left carotid artery. He was taken to the post hospital, and died the next day, from hemorrhage.3 In the following instance the subclavian artery was divided:— Private James Smith, Co. I, 38th U. S. Infantry, was shot, by the accidental discharge of a Springfield musket (calibre 50), in the hands of a comrade, while standing in the door of the company quarters. The ball entered the right shoulder from behind, and, passing through the scapula, divided the subclavian vessels and fractured the clavicle. Death was almost immediate.4 In the next three examples the external iliac artery was severed:— Private John Gerhardt, Co. K, 2d U. S. Infantry, aged 22, received, on January 9, 1869, accidentally, a gunshot wound of the groin. He was immediately admitted to the regimental hospital, and died one hour afterward of. hemorrhage, from the external iliac artery, which was divided in the wound.5 Private Winny Abbott, Co. K, 25th U. S. Infantry, committed suicide at Jackson Barracks, New Orleans, August 8, 1869, by shooting himself with his own musket. The ball entered the abdomen two inches above the pubis, and one inch to the left of the linea alba, passing through the rectus abdominis muscle, cutting off the bowel, severing the external iliac artery, and escaping posteriorly through the os innominatum. He expired immediately after receiving the wound.6 Corporal R. A., Co. E, 38th U. S. Infantry, aged 35, was admitted to the post hospital at Fort Hays, Kansas, October 21, 1867, in an intoxicated condition, with a gunshot wound of the abdomen; pulse small and feeble, skin cold; was very restless, and vomited several times. Death resulted at two o’clock next morning. Autopsy— Thirty-six ounces of fluid tinged with blood, a quantity of coagulated blood, and some fecal matter were found in the abdominal cavity. The ball had wounded the small intestines in two places, passed through the sigmoid flexure of the colon, severed the external iliac artery completely, and the vein partially, etc., and lodged in the gluteal muscles.7 In the next two cases the femoral artery and vein were divided:— Henry C. Clinton, artificer, Co. C, 2d Infantry, was shot in a street-brawl at Louis- ville, Ky., October 19, 1868, through the right thigh, by a round pistol-ball, which * Ibid., p. 22. s Ibid., p. 55. 6 Ibid., p. 55. ' Ibid., p. 21. * Ibid., p. 23. » Ibid., p. 23. 7 Ibid., p. 55.