520 ANEURISM. of judgment or insufficient care in examination will most certainly bring a valuable operation into disrepute. For the guidance of the surgeon, I would submit the following aphorisms:— I. An aneurism commencing suddenly, especially if traceable to some trau- matism or over-exertion, is more likely to be benefited by operation than one arising gradually and without assignable, mechanical cause. II. Distinct sacculation is a most desirable condition; fusiform dilatation of the innominate indicates almost certainly a similar condition of the aorta, and widespread arterial disease. III. If symptoms show the aortic arch to be also affected, the disease should be limited, that is, should not extend along the transverse portion; it should be of the sacculated variety, not a general dilatation of the whole calibre. Absence of any other aneurism, especially of the rest of the aorta, must be ascertained. IV. Absence of rasp-sound along the aorta, or any other indication of ex- tensive atheroma, should be verified. V. Aortic incompetence (obstruction, regurgitation, or both), unless very slight, is a decided objection, as is also mitral disease or considerable hyper- trophy of the heart. VI. Patency of the vessels leading to the brain should be investigated by making a few seconds’ pressure on the carotids alternately, and then simul- taneously. VII. Absence of visceral disease must be ascertained.1 The choice of tying both vessels at the same time, or of at first securing one only* must depend in part on certain peculiarities of the aneurism, in part on other matters concerning the circulatory organs. In regard to this question I would offer the following rules:— I. If the aneurism occupy the distal end of the innominate, with the root either of the carotid or of the subclavian, but not of both, then we may tie the one or the other respectively. II. If there be only a moderate degree of aortic incompetence, such as might, however, be dangerous for simultaneous deligation, the surgeon must carefully consider whether its amount would also preclude tying a single vessel. III. Aortic dilatation may be such in amount as would permit of tying one, but not both vessels, without danger. IV. Any strong suspicion that the left carotid, or either vertebral, was blocked, would negative deligatioj| of the right carotid, but not of the sub- clavian in its third part. V. In all these contingencies, except the last, the value of a subsequent deligation of the other vessel must be gathered from the manner in wThich the first operation has been borne, the amount of good effected, and the changes produced in the direction of aneurismal growth. VI. When none of the deterrent circumstances are present, and when the aneurism of the innominate does not markedly obtrude on one branch to the occlusion of the other, both vessels should be tied. Aneurism of Arch of Aorta. We now come to a subject, the surgical aspects of aortic-arch aneurism, which involves the latest developments of the surgery of vessels. In the 1 Many a case has been placed on the debit side of the account when the aneurism had been cured, or was in process of cure, the patient having died of some other disease, the symptoms of which had been disregarded or overlooked. Some of these aphorisms may appear superfluous, but they are all justified by records.