PHLEBITIS. 329 in the lower than in the upper extremities, yet it may be found anywhere. It affects the superficial rather than the deep veins, and often occurs in patches, affecting on one day, for example, a short piece of the saphenous vein, and the next, another portion of the same vein, some other distant vein, or a cor- responding piece of the opposite vein. The inflamed portions of the vein usually feel hard and are painful to the touch. The soft parts covering the vein become slightly thickened, and often have a dusky, reddish tint. When the deep veins are involved, oedema appears, with the well-recognized results of obstruction—the limb becomes big, clumsy, featureless, heavy, and stiff; its skin is cool, and may be pale, but more often has a slightly livid tint, which may be recognized by comparison with the other limb; and it has mottlings from small cutaneous veins, visibly distended. The limb thus enlarged feels oedematous throughout, but firm and tight- skinned, not yielding easily to pressure, and not pitting very deeply. The constitutional symptoms associated wdth this affection vary from some slight febrile condition to those met with in acute gout. Complete recovery may take place in this as in other forms of phlebitis, the veins becoming pervious in some cases and obstructed in others. The risks of embolism are also the same. (Bryant.) (3) Acute Idiopathic Phlebitis (not gouty or syphilitic).—This form of venous inflammation—caused, as has been said, by exposure to cold, due to the pres- ence of a varicosity, or coming in the course of a severe febrile attack—may involve one or more veins. The disease travels along the vessels in the direc- tion of the heart. The veins become swollen, and are hard to the touch, resembling the normal veins when the return circulation is momentarily arrested, though more cord-like in feel and less elastic. Their course can be traced by the dull-red color of the skin immediately over the diseased vessels. Pain is generally constant, and is rendered more acute by pressure. The oedema of the parts on the distal side of the lesion is commensurate with the obstruction to the return circulation caused by the inflammatory process. The febrile movement varies with the violence of the attack, the rapidity of its progress, the intensity of the inflammation, and the capacity of the tissues to resist invasion. In the severe forms, the clinical history is similar to that of traumatic phlebitis, which will be fully described hereafter. Idiopathic phlebitis is not as dangerous to life as the traumatic variety. It may run a short course, and the patient recover promptly, or it may assume a subacute or chronic form, and remain indefinitely. II. Traumatic Phlebitis.—When a vein is injured, inflammation will result, if the vessel is penetrated to its cavity, or suffers a solution of continuity. I have even known acute, traumatic phlebitis to result from a prolonged forced flexion of the leg on the thigh, leading to thrombosis and occlusion of the popliteal vein. The simplest form of traumatic phlebitis is that resulting from the operation of venesection. No matter what may be the character of the traumatism, the pathological process is the same. The mode of termina- tion of this process will depend upon the extent and severity of the lesion, and upon the recuperative powers of the tissues involved. Traumatic phlebitis extends from the original lesion along the vessels in the direction of the heart. In the deeper veins it is with difficulty recognized in the earlier stages. The course of the inflammation is marked by a dull, coppery-red staining. Pain is invariably present, and upon pressure is acute. In severe cases the tumefaction spreads from the vessels to the surrounding tissues. (Edema of the parts on the distal side of the lesion will occur in a degree commensurate with the interference with the return circulation. The febrile movement is that of septic fever: chills or rigors, flushes of heat ending in cold and exhausting sweats,