341 SYPHILITIC ARTERITIS. Fig. 520. Posterior tibial artery. Section showing coagulation necrosis, a, intima; b, media ; c, adventitia ; d, spot of coagulation necrosis. Magnified 360 diameters. (From a specimen prepared by Dr. W. L. Wardwell.) Syphilitic Arteritis.—Arteritis is a part of the pathology of syphilis. The first danger to life in this disease comes from the changes in the capacity of the arteries. No part of the arterial system is exempt, though the most serious lesions are found in the vessels of the brain, and next in the aorta. They become grave in the larger trunks on account of the atheroma resulting from the syphilitic poison (inducing aneurism), and in the smaller arteries (especially those of the brain) from occlusion or atheroma. Even in the initial lesion of syphilis (the chancre), according to Biesiadecki, the capillaries of the papillae have in their thickened walls many nuclei, some of which are seen to project into the lumen of the vessel. The arteries of the base of the brain, especially the basilar and those at the commencement of the fissure of Sylvius, are often seriously involved. I have seen two cases in private practice in which death resulted from anaemia of the medulla, due to a more or less complete thrombosis of the basilar artery. A patient of Dr. Weber’s, to whom I was called, died in my presence. A few days previous to his death he had complained of dizziness, and of a sensa- tion as of insects crawling over the integument of the extremities. Death was quite sudden, and was due to respiratory failure. He became quickly uncon- scious, and appeared to have lost all sense of the besoin de respirer. The respiratory movements were irregular, and co-ordination of movement be- tween the expiratory and inspiratory muscles was seemingly lost. The mode of death was different from anything I had ever witnessed up to that date or have since. At the autopsy, the basilar, just where it divided into the two posterior cerebrals, was found almost completely occluded by a thrombus. There was no other lesion which could have accounted for death. Syphilis had existed for several years. In the second case, syphilis had existed for nineteen years, with right hemiplegia Tor the last sixteen years of life. This patient was under my care for nearly five years. She would never consent to take the iodides or any medicine. She was excessively obstinate; her mind was clear up to the time