ANEURISM. 492 Orbital Aneurism, or rather pulsating tumor of the orbit, presents many problems of great interest and difficulty, for it is by no means to be supposed that the pulsation arises of necessity from diseases of the ophthalmic artery, nor, indeed, that it is in the orbit at all. The maladies which may produce a pulsatile tumor in this situation may he thus classified Disease not of vessels.1 Venous or capillary disease. Arterial disease. ( Erectile tumor. -j Myeloid sarcoma, or encephaloid. ( Meningocele at sphenoidal fissure or at a suture. {5 Thrombosis of ophthalmic vein.2 Varicose condition of ophthalmic vein.2 Aneurism (cirsoid) by anastomosis. Circumscribed aneurism of the carotid in the cavernous sinus. Diffused aneurism. Arterio-venous aneurism. Venous morbid condi- tion. Arterial disease. Thrombosis of cavernous sinus.3 {Circumscribed aneurism of internal carotid in cavernous sinus. Diffused aneurism. Arterio-venous aneurism. The diagnosis between the growths first mentioned and vascular disease must he gathered from the general directions given at p. 396 ; but in this particular situation unusual difficulty is caused by the confined space in which the dis- ease lies, and by the inaccessibility to touch thereby produced. Meningocele of the orbit is very rare, and could hardly occur save in infants, or at least when taking its origin in infancy. The nature of M. Guersant’s case, which was brought before the Surgical Society of Paris,4 was recognized by none of those who examined it, and treatment with a seton proved rapidly fatal. The presence of a distinct pulsatile tumor, and its being readily emptied by pressure, are the misleading points ; but the absence of bruit which can be detected by the surgeon, and of loud noises heard by the patient, should lead to a suspicion of the non-aneurismal nature of the case. If the tumor, not compressing the veins, caused no swollen condition of those vessels, and no marked congestion, the diagnosis would rest between the disease in question and the two other tumors not due to vascular changes; but if such venous disturbance were produced, greater diagnostic difficulties would arise. One of the cases reported was traumatic, the injury occurring at one year of age. The surgeon (Oettingen) examined the case in the thirteenth year of life. The other divisions of the table relate to various forms of vascular disease, and it will, for the present, be better to consider their symptoms altogether, without further reference just now to their anatomy than the remark that both venous and arterial dilatation are capable of giving rise to a pulsatile tumor of the orbit, and to protrusion of the eyeball (which may itself also pulsate), and this whether the morbid state be located within that cavity or behind it, viz., in the cavernous sinus and surrounding structures. The symp- 1 To this might have been added certain cases of pulsation which, no cause having been found after death, M. Collard (Gazette Med. 1866, p. 631) ascribed to a morbid condition of the vaso-motor nerves given off by the lenticular ganglion. Without wishing to deny the possible truth of this causation, I prefer to exclude it from my table as being at present merely specula- tive, and resting on no fact in morbid anatomy. 2 Both of these may result from disease behind the orbit. 3 Solid tumors compressing the cavernous sinus might have the same effect, but in point of fact such have not been found. 4 Guersant, Maladies des Enfants, p. 246.