TREATMENT OP ANEURISMS AT ROOT OP NECK. 519 much success, until 1865, when Mr. Heath tied simultaneously the right carotid and subclavian for a woman supposed to be suffering from innominate aneurism,1 who survived four years in spite of the most wretched, drunken habits. In 1872, an excellent study and resume of the subject, by Mr. Holmes,, kept up an interest which had never greatly flagged.2 Nevertheless, no suc- cessful instance of this mode of treating innominate aneurism had occurred until August, 1877, when I tied simultaneously the right carotid and sub- clavian in the case of Robert Watson, illustrations of whose case, before and after the operation, I subjoin.3 Case of Robert Watson ; Case of Robert Watson, weens alter operation. In thus dealing with an aneurism of the innominate by attacking its branches, it is evident that a certain choice lies open to the surgeon. He may either elect to tie, at the same operation, the common carotid and the subclavian, third or first part, or he may ligature one of these vessels as a first step, reserving the other to some favorable opportunity. These pro- cedures are called “double distal ligations,” the former being qualified as “ simultaneous,” the latter as “ consecutive.” Or he may content himself with tying only one of the vessels in question, the one selected being usually the carotid, though in a few instances the subckvian only has been tied. Having then this wide choice, the surgeon requires certain grounds upon which to base his decision: first, as to the propriety of adopting any operative mea- sure ; and secondly, as to what that measure should be. The former consideration is at the present day of very vast importance, because the method of double distal ligature has, of late years, received a great impetus; it is also one in which I am personally interested, as much of that impetus has been imparted by my own successes and writings. By the results of surgery in this department, during the next few years, posterity will judge the justifiable or unjustifiable nature of the procedure. Now suc- cess in great measure depends upon a judicious selection of cases; while want 1 After death, the aneurism was found to have been aortic. The case- is reported in the Lancet, Jan. 5, 1867 ; the preparation is in the College of Surgeons’ Museum, Pathological Series, 1596 A. 2 Lectures on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism, delivered at the College of Surgeons, and published in the Lancet, 1871, 1872, 1873. 3 By kind permission of the Council of the Medico-Chirurgical Society, in whose Transactions, vol. Ixi. p. 32, the case is published. The aneurism was cured, but the man exposed himself, insufficiently clad, to most inclement weather, and died of bronchitis, quite independent of the original disease, six months afterwards.