482 ANEURISM. Ligation of the Radial Artery above the Wrist.—Midway between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis, a longitudinal incision, from an inch to an inch and a half in length, should expose the fascia of the arm, and with the finger moved from side to side the skin and subjacent tissue should be pushed away, so that a little breadth for examination is obtained. Through the thin but firm fascia, the artery and its companion veins are usually visible ; if not, the vessel may be felt pulsating. Just at the inside of these parts, the fascia may be pinched up with forceps, opened, and slit up on a director to the length of the first incision. The nerve has left the vessel at this point, and does not require consideration. If the operator think it necessary, which it is not, he may separate the companion veins. Ligation of the Radial Artery in its Upper Portion.—The operation on the vessel higher up is quite as simple. The artery takes a straight course from the biceps tendon to the inner edge of the radial styloid process. In the middle third it may be overlapped by the belly of the supinator longus, which may, after division of the fascia, be drawn outwards. The nerve, which is nearer the vessel in the middle third than elsewhere, should be pushed in the same direction, and the needle is to be introduced between it and the artery. Ligation of the Ulnar Artery.—To tie the ulnar artery above the wrist, the tendon of the carpal flexor may be taken as the guide. The incision must be made just outside its outer edge, deep enough to lay it bare, and to enable an assistant to hold it inward with a blunt hook. The artery and the nerve will then be seen, the latter on the inner side; but the vessel is not yet bare, being held down to the common flexor by a fascial covering, which must be divided.1 In the middle third of the forearm, the ulnar artery may be tied by making an incision two inches long, in a line drawn from the inner condyle to the pisi- form bone. This should expose the deep fascia, which is also to be divided along the aponeurotic edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris, beneath which the artery will be found, tied only to the underlying muscular fibres by some loose cellular tissue. The needle must be passed from within outwards. An operation for tying the ulnar in its upper third has been described, but should not be practised. Either of the above operations may be employed for an aneurism lying two inches above the carpus, each for its respective vessel. But if the disease be situated lower than this, deligation of one ves- sel only is usually insufficient; therefore, if we operate in the forearm at all, two wounds have to be made. In my experience, however, deligation of the brachial artery, not too high, is preferable, and will cure an aneurism at the wrist, and even check hemorrhage from the palm. Case XVI J., aged 7, fell, with a bottle in his hand, and divided the ulnar artery about three-quarters of an inch from the pisiform bone, on June 3, 1881. A pad and firm pressure checked the bleeding, but in five days a pulsating tumor formed in the wound; on the seventh day it burst. My house surgeon tied the ulnar artery imme- diately, above and below. This device answered well for another period of five days, and then pulsation recurred. Flexion failed to check the beat of the tumor. On the 13th of June, the consecutive aneurism was the size of a French olive, and beat violently in the still open wound. I found no pulse whatever in the ulnar artery, on which the aneurism was situated. Pressure on the radial, just above the wrist, entirely stopped pulsation of the tumor. Flexion had no such influence, unless a pad was placed in the Bleeding soon recurred, and the house surgeon fastened a pad of cork on both radial and ulnar artery. This device was efficient for five days only. On a return of hemorrhage I ascertained, by careful examination, that the pressure quite commanded the pulse in both vessels, and yet the bleeding was pretty free. I tied the brachial artery, but even then, slight though quite unimportant oozing continued for thirty-six hours. 1 There are three nerves on this aspect of the forearm. As a mnemonic, I may say that each artery lies between the median and the nerve of its own name.