WOUNDS OP THE VENUE CAVE. orifice with this finger in the wound, he might have restrained the hemor- rhage until the artery had been exposed and ligatured on each side of the aperture. The proceeding here recommended is exactly that which has many times been practised with complete success in wounds of the femoral and carotid arteries. Wounds op the Subclavian Artery.—The traumatic lesions of this artery are not always hopeless. During the late civil war, at least five cases required surgical treatment, and in one of them the left subclavian was successfully ligatured by a Confederate surgeon. The others survived the casualty from two to sixteen days.1 In cases belonging to this category, the hemorrhage should, if possible, be restrained by digital compression, applied in the way just pointed out, until the artery can he tied above and below with carbolized catgut. Wounds of the Venue Cavje.—In this class of injuries, death usually occurs so speedily from hemorrhage that examples of them are but rarely seen by surgeons during life. I will present a few illustrative cases I— Fig- 430. During the late civil war, a soldier re- ceived a shot-wound through the chest; “ a great stream of blood is said to have gushed from his mouth as he fell forward, dead.” Necroscopy—The ball entered at the right edge of the sternum, between the first and second ribs; pierced the descending cava, one inch above the heart; struck the right bronchus, severing three rings (thus giving a ready exit to the large stream of blood); and emerged between the seventh and eighth ribs without wounding the lungs. There was a little clotted blood in the mediastinum under the sternum.2 In another case, death ensued not quite so rapidly:—- A soldier during the late civil war, through the stock of whose musket a con- oidal ball had passed, was fatally wounded thereby. The missile entered his chest through the second right intercostal space, . divided the descending cava, crossed the chest diagonally beneath the aorta, emerged through the third left intercostal space, shattered the left humerus, and was found thirteen feet from where the man fell, in a battered state. Externally there was scarcely any hemorrhage; but the left pleural cavity contained much bloody serum mixed with jelly-like clots. The hemor- rhage was exclusively due to the division of to be carried from his post to the hospital, 1 missile also perforated the superior lobe of tl Showing from behind the relations of the aorta, yen as cavae, heart, pulmonary artery and veins, etc., to the other viscera. the cava. The patient lived long enough (ear by, where he immediately died. The le left lung. The specimen is preserved in 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surgical Vol., p. 521. 2 Ibid., p. 520. VOL. III.—15