20 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL duced. If necessary for the evacuation of pus, the sheath of the tendon must be opened higher up, and free drainage must be secured. When there is result- ing necrosis of the phalanx, and this will occur in a considerable proportion of cases in spite of all that can be done, ample time should be given for the spontaneous separation of the sequestrum, which can then be easily removed. Very often the epiphysis will he found healthy, so that the phalangeal articu- lation need not be opened. Simple extraction of the dead bone is much to be preferred to amputation, as by the filling in and contraction of the soft parts, an useful substitute for the original finger-end will remain. Palmar Abscess.—As the result usually of the extension of the previously described tenosynovitis of the digital flexors, but sometimes as the consequence of long-continued irritation of a limited portion of the skin of the palm of the hand, with the formation of small callosities such as are frequent with various sorts of artisans, there is developed an acute inflammation of the great bursal pouch under cover of the palmar fascia. When the primary in- flammation of the tendinous synovial sac is located on the index, middle, or ring finger, it is usually arrested spontaneously for a time at the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation, in consequence of the termination of the sac at that level. After a little delay, however, the barrier intervening between the tendinous sheath and the great pouch above, if they come in close contact with each other, is broken down; or, if they are more widely separated, as they often are, the inflammation is propagated along the interposed connective tissue, so that, whatever the anatomical arrangement, before very long the palmar sac is involved. If the little finger is the seat of the original trouble,, the morbid action is usually led directly up to the palm of the hand, as the flexor-sheath of that finger ordinarily communicates with the subfascial pouch. Since the flexor-sheath of the thumb passes up separately on the palmar sur- face of the forearm, where it either opens into the continuation of the palmar sac above the wrist, or terminates in close relation with it, separated merely by a thin wall which may readily be broken through, it is only by down- ward progress, under and below the annular ligament, that central palmar inflammation and resulting abscess can arise from lesion originally confined to the thumb. Cases, however, may at times be met with in which the course of the disease proves that the usual anatomical arrangement does not exist; and this is not so much to be wondered at since, as has been said, “bursal sheaths are parts of great variability and inconstancy, and they early become changed in pathological conditions.” Symptoms.—Wherever originating, and however propagated to the subfas- cial space, acute palmar bursitis is indicated by great pain, by marked swell- ing, the natural concavity of the palm being changed into a convexity, by an oedematous and discolored condition of the skin, associated not infrequently with a superficial sub-epidermal suppuration, by high fever and decided gene- ral prostration. Suppuration quickly occurs, the pus-formation causing gene- rally the usual and characteristic rigors. In the advanced stages of palmar abscess an error in diagnosis can hardly be made, but at an early period the nature of the disease may, and often does, escape recognition, the inflamma- tion being believed to be but superficially located. The prognosis, though much affected by treatment, is always grave, for sel- dom is the inflammation recovered from, be it never so slight or never so well treated, without some impairment of the functional integrity of the parts. When neglected or improperly treated, the danger both to the part and to life itself is very great, the patient, if recovering at all, doing so only after the lapse of much time, and then with a badly damaged hand, permanent flexion of the fingers in greater or less degree being ordinarily met with. Not