ANEURISMS OP THE PALM AND WRIST. 481 stance the symptoms were exceedingly characteristic. (Intra-peritoneal ope- ration.)1 The next patient (South’s) lived 48 hours. The case is very insufficiently reported, the only note that I can find of it being: “ The young man went on remarkably well after it, but he died on Monday morning, surviving the operation 48 hours.” (Extra-peritoneal.)2 P. Heron Watson’s patient survived 63 hours. The operation was under- taken for secondary hemorrhage, after deligation of the common iliac. This case also is very shortly reported. The patient died of exhaustion. (Intra- peritoneal.)3 Monteiro’s patient lived close upon 11 days, and died of secondary hemor- rhage.4 If the operator had been possessed of one of the fresh animal liga- tures recently introduced, the man would probably have recovered. It must, therefore, be concluded that deligation of the abdominal aorta has hitherto been very unfortunate as to the accompaniments of the cases in which it has been tried. It does not deserve, therefore, to be condemned and banished, but under pressing circumstances may be resorted to, the operator employing the extra-peritoneal method, and using such a ligature as will obviate the risk of secondary hemorrhage. This is demonstrable from the results of Monteiro’s, and in a less degree by those of the other three com- paratively successful cases.5 Aneurisms op the Upper Extremity. Aneurisms of the Palm and Wrist.—These are nearly always traumatic, and may be exceedingly troublesome, since the very free inosculation of vessels occasionally frustrates attempts at cure. All the means which have been detailed in previous sections are, however, available. But the sur- geon would probably first try either the Esmarch bandage, or some form of pressure on the brachial artery. Flexion, with a pad in the bend of the elbow, has been successful in arresting hemorrhage and in curing consecutive aneurisms. Deligation of one, or of more than one, of the afferent arteries, is but a slight operation, and is very usually successful. Incising the sac and securing both ends has also availed; but three cases are on record in which, after such an operation, the palm suppurated, the carpus became carious, and, in two, amputation was performed. For can I commend extirpation by chloride of zinc or other cautery. If none of the various forms of pressure cures the disease, deligation is the least severe method, and the one most unlikely to be followed by evil consequences. For an aneurism in the palm, which will not yield to compression, it is probably the best practice to tie both the radial and ulnar arteries a little above the wrist.6 The operation on either vessel, low down, is extremely simple. The radial is easily accessible throughout its course. 1 Cooper and Travers, Surgical Essays, Part i, p. 201. 2 Lancet, 1856, vol. ii. p. 47. 3 British Medical Journal, 1869, vol. ii. p. 216. 4 Schmidt’s Jahrbucher, Bd. xxxvii. S. 85. 5 Space will not allow me to consider here all the arguments that have been adduced either foi or against the operation. Pirogoff’s well-known experiments (Waller und v. Grate’s Journal, Bd. xxvii. S. 122), and those of Kast in his excellent paper (Zeitsclirift fur Chirurgie, Bd. xii. s! 405), show that the collateral circulation becomes established, and that the supposed injurious effects on spinal cord and brain—the one from excess, the other from absence of blood are chi- merical. 6 If any prolonged pressure has been made upon these vessels, the deep branch running to the carpus from the anterior interosseous, and probably other side channels, will supply too much blood to the part. In a case under my care—of hemorrhage from a wound of the palmar arch, caused by the bursting of a soda-water bottle—the vessel had twice been tied in the wound. VOL. III.—31