717 SPRAINS. dent, indeed, which has not unfrequently occurred in the hands of good surgeons. The hip-joint was treated on similar principles, the flexion force being obtained by placing the patient’s leg on the operator’s shoulder, while the latter’s hands grasped the thigh to rotate it, or steadied the pelvis by pressing down upon the groin. Dr. Hood says that if the limb be “ elongated,” the flexion should be made in an “ abducted” direction. As the limb seldom or never is actually elongated in such cases, I presume that he means the appa- rent elongation produced by stiffening in a position of abduction. The whole theory, as far as it contains valuable elements, may be summed up in the following principles:— 1. The points of adhesion in painful cases will be found at the spots which are tender when pressed upon, and when the part is put on the stretch. 2. The points of resistance in cases of painless stiffness are found by moving the part in different directions. 3. These points are to be ruptured by quick, strong motions, and the free- dom thus gained must be preserved by daily exercise. If any one will master these three propositions, and superadd a lying habit of declaring every stiff' or painful limb to be “ out of joint,” he will then become a “ natural bone-setter.” It is evident that many cases of lameness may be properly treated by this method, but it is also true that most of them can be better but more slowly cured by systematic exercise. The two classes of cases which require the rupturing plan are:— 1. Those in which there are adhesions so firm that nothing else will libe- rate them. 2. Those in which the patient cannot remain under the surgeon’s care long enough for the employment of the gentler, gradual plan. Sprains. A sprain is a wrench of a joint, of such force as to overstrain and often slightly tear the fibres of the capsular ligament, without dislocating the bones. The ankle and the wrist are the most frequent seats of this injury, but the elbow and the knee are not uncommonly affected, while the shoulder and the hip, owing to the wide freedom of their motions, are seldom the subjects of sprains. In the ankle, sprains are almost invariably caused by an inad- vertent step, in such a direction as to turn the sole of the foot inward, and lacerate the outer lateral ligament. In the wrist, sprains result from falls upon the hand. All the articulations of the hand or of the foot are occa- sionally sprained. Complications of Sprains.—Although the laceration or overstretching of the capsular ligament constitutes the essential element of a sprain, yet other tissues are often injured. Thus tendons may be ruptured and muscles torn. Still more frequently, the synovial membrane is contused or lacerated, giving- rise to a severe synovitis, and small vessels are generally torn, causing extra- vasation of blood, either within or without the joint, or both. At the wrist, the ligaments are very powerful, and when sprained they often drag with them the articular extremity of the radius, causing a fracture of the lower end of that bone. Diagnosis.—In joints swollen from the effects of sprains, care is necessary to avoid errors of diagnosis. In an uncomplicated, reoent sprain, however