Ill PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Another instance of punctured wound of, and primary hemorrhage from, the thoracic aorta, which belongs to the same category as the last, was also observed in Ireland only a few years ago. A woman named Nolan, aged 47, an inmate of Richmond Lunatic Asylum, at Dublin, died very suddenly after vomiting blood. The autopsy and the evidence adduced by the coroner showed that she came to her death in conse- quence of hemorrhage from a punctured wound in the aorta, caused by a sewing- needle which she had swallowed. This needle had perforated the posterior wall of the oesophagus, and pierced the anterior wall of the aorta; a part of it was found still embedded in the oesophagus, and it was covered with rust.1 This case as well as the last was not amenable to treatment, because the wounded artery was so placed in the body that it could not be exposed and tied by any surgical operation. Durham, however, relates a case in which the carotid artery bled from a punctured wound, extending to it from the pharynx, that was successfully treated by ligating the artery;— A boy, aged 7, fell while holding the sharp end of a parasol in his mouth. The point came almost through the skin on the left side of his neck. Considerable hemor- rhage occurred at once, and recurred at night. About the seventh or eighth day a slough came away by the mouth, followed by arterial hemorrhage to the amount of five ounces, which was stopped by pressure applied externally, when the boy was brought to St. George’s Hospital. A swelling as large as the half of a hen’s egg was found beneath the left ear, and the skin for some distance around was discolored, as from extravasated blood. The swelling fluctuated at the summit; it was opened, and pus with much blood-clot escaped, but no hemorrhage ensued. Two days later a gush of arterial blood followed a fit of coughing, and the common carotid artery was promptly cut down upon and tied by Mr. H. C. Johnson. Both wounds soon healed, and the boy made a good recovery.2 In the following instance of stab-wound of the neck, where the point of a knife punctured the internal carotid artery, the hemorrhage was checked by digital compression until the vessel could be tied on each side of the wound, and recovery followed On July 31, 1869, a miller was wounded in the neck, at the angle of the lower jaw, by the large blade of a pocket-knife, which penetrated to the depth of several inches, and opened the internal carotid. Alarmed by the tremendous jets of arterial blood, Dr. J. M. Denning, in whose drug-store the stabbing occurred, immediately seized the man’s neck, and compressed the carotids. Happening to be close at hand, Dr. A. T. Lee promptly cut down upon the artery by the usual incision, exposed it by careful dissection, found the bleeding point, and applied a ligature on the cardiac side of it. The patient, who had fainted, now rallied, but severe arterial hemorrhage again occurred, the blood coming from above, through the circle of Willis, from the opposite carotid and the vertebrals. A ligature was then placed on the distal side of the wound in the artery, and the regurgitating hemorrhage at once ceased. The patient was now pulseless, and death was considered imminent; but under prompt and ener- getic stimulation with whiskey and ammonia, the circulation soon became good ; respi- ration grew full and regular, and, fifteen minutes after the operation, speech returned. He was confined to bed five weeks, but made a good recovery ultimately, being still alive and actively employed over nine years afterward.3 This case answers several good purposes. It illustrates the plan of treat- ment which, when practicable, is best calculated to save patients having punctured wounds of arteries, namely, the exposure of the bleeding point in the artery by enlarging the original wound, or by making fresh incisions, as 1 Lancet, 1877, vol. ii. p. 789. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 457. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1879, pp. 142, 143.