673 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. Dislocation of the Head of the Radius Forward.—Causes.—Falls upon the elbow occasionally drive the head of the radius, by direct violence, into a position in front of the joint, and falls upon the hand have been said to cause the same injury. A radius has been known to be displaced forward at its upper end, simply by lifting a rather feeble child by one hand from the floor. Symptoms.—In this accident the head of the radius is found upon the front of the humerus, where its presence is certainly proved by making rotation of the forearm while pressing with the thumb over the misplaced bone. j Fig. 559. Pressure in front of the external condyle discovers the vacuity from which the bone has departed. The forearm commonly is somewhat pronated, but may lie between pronation and supination, and may even be occasionally supinated. Some flexion usually exists, which can be increased to a right angle only. There is usually some pain and resistance when the limb is completely extended. The sudden locking of the bones which prevents the flexion beyond a right angle, occurs at the moment when the head of the radius strikes the front of the humerus. It is quite characteristic, and differs entirely from mere muscular resistance. The constant tension of the biceps muscle is the force maintaining the forward position, and the greatest obstacle to successfully retaining the bone when reduced. Prognosis.—I have myself had no difficulty in the reduction of these eases. Sir Astley Cooper reported two failures in recent cases of his own, and some in the practice of other surgeons. Malgaigne, out of twenty-five cases, found six in which the diagnosis was not made until too late; eight in which reduction was successful; and eleven in which it failed. Hamilton met with three cases in which reduction had not been effected, and three in which, through mistaken diagnosis, no attempt at reduction had been made. One which had been treated by a member of the Sweet family of “ natural bone- setters,” was a complete failure. It will therefore be seen that the surgeon can be by no means confident of success, even with the most faithful and careful efforts. Treatment.—In many cases simple extension upon the forearm, with pres- sure of the thumb upon the head of the radius, will effect reduction. This Hamilton believes to be more successful when it is made in the direction in which the limb is found to point, that is, in a semiflexed position. After re- duction, the limb must be maintained in a flexed position for several weeks, so as to secure a reasonably firm union of the capsule. The arm should be placed in a sling, and the patient directed never to lift the forearm so as to bring the biceps into a state of tension, as this would tend to draw the bone from its place. An angular splint at the back or front of the arm, is of use to assist in retaining the bones. After a few weeks, cautious, passive movements should be begun to prevent too much stiffening of the elbow. The luxation is one easily reproduced for a long period afterward, on account of the con- formation of the articulating surfaces. It is easily seen, therefore, that the dislocation, if found to exist, may be only a reproduction of one which has vol. hi.—43