712 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. effect reduction; (2) To leave the displaced bones still unreduced, trusting that, as elsewhere, more or less functional activity may he regained; (3) To remove the foot by Syme’s or Pirogoff’s amputation. Dislocation of the Scaphoid and Cuboid from the Os Calcis and Astra- galus.—This is the medio-tarsal dislocation of Malgaigne and of Hamilton. It is a rare accident; but one which undoubtedly occurs in an uncomplicated form. Cooper and Liston have recorded instances. The foot is bent upon itself, as in congenital talipes. Simple extension is all that is required to bring the bones again into position, after which rest should be enjoined for several weeks, to secure union of the ruptured ligaments. Dislocation of the Cuboid alone.—Some of the older surgeons assert the possibility of this injury, while others deny that any authentic cases are upon record. Extension, counter-extension, and direct pressure upon the bone, are the means which would probably be required to effect reduction. Dislocation of the Scaphoid alone.—A number of cases are well attested, in which this bone has been displaced, generally in an upward direction. The prominent tumor, formed by the displaced bone, makes the diagnosis easy when fracture is known not to exist. Reduction is of course effected by pressure upon the bone. By turning the foot away from the side to which displacement has occurred, reduction is assisted, as this'widens some- what the gap into which it is designed to thrust the bone in restoring it to its position. Dislocations of the Cuneiform Bones.—These bones may be luxated either separately or together. The displacement will be recognized by exam- ining the anatomical landmarks of the part carefully, and by studying the bony framework of the sound foot. The treatment is essentially the same as in luxations of the scaphoid, excepting as to the direction of the movements. Dislocations of the Metatarsal Bones.—The whole of the metatarsus may be dislocated either forward or backward, and individual bones of the group are at times seen to be displaced in various directions. The luxations of all the bones constitute injuries which are easily recognized, and in which reduction is readily accomplished. In these cases the foot is shortened, and either a prominence or a vacuity exists upon its dorsal aspect, according as the heads of the bones have gone forward or backward. Considerable pain and swelling occur in a short time after the injury, and may to some extent obscure the symptoms, and prevent the determination of the existence or non-existence of fracture. The treatment consists in making extension upon the toes and pressing the heads of the metatarsals towTard their places. This is not easy in cases where only one of the bones has been displaced. Where any difficulty occurs, an anaesthetic is needed—in many cases as much to help in diagnosis as in treat- ment, since it is all-important not to overlook the presence of a fracture, should any exist. Dislocations of the Phalanges.—These displacements are rare. Blows received upon the ends or sides of the toes, or violent wrenchings of the toes, however produced, are the general causes. The direction of displacement may be forward or backward, usually the latter. The diagnosis cannot be difficult, except in cases of fracture, or where the swelling is great. The symptoms are too obvious to need description. The