293 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. Fig. 474. Showing the surgical anatomy of the anterior superior cervical triangle. platysma, and deep fascia, having been carefully divided, the last three laminae on a grooved director, the operator encounters the facial and lingual veins, and not unfrequently one or two lymphatic ganglia. If these veins cannot be readily drawn aside, each of them is to be tied with two ligatures, and divided midway between these. The external carotid artery may now be found, crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and by the stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric muscle. It should next be cautiously separated, by means of a director, from the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, both of which run closely along its outer side. Pass the needle from without inward between the two carotids, carefully avoiding the internal jugular vein and the hypoglossal nerve. The operation of tying the external carotid artery has proved to be a very successful procedure, for of nineteen cases collected by Professor Agnew, “ only one proved fatal from hemorrhage, and none from causes which could properly be attributed to the 'operation.”1 The terminal branches of the external carotid arteries freely inosculate toge- ther across the median plane. Whefl, therefore, the external carotid has been tied for hemorrhage from a wound of its branches, should the hemor- rhage return, it is proper to tie the other external carotid. This procedure has, thus far, been uniformly successful.2 Internal Carotid.—The internal carotid artery curves slightly outward from its origin, and then ascends nearly perpendicularly through the maxillo- pharyngeal space to the carotid foramen in the petrous bone. Its cervical portion is in relation, in front, with the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and the parotid gland; externally, with the internal jugular vein, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerves; internally, it is in relation with the side of the pharynx, 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 636. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1873.