142 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. ally filled, after a very brief interval of time, with coagulated blood for a few lines from its extremity—above that point often pulsates quite strongly, though freely exposed to the air, as in the following instance observed in the Crimean War:— A man had his left arm torn off at the shoulder-joint. The limb was completely separated from the trunk, too little of the integuments being left to cover the wound. The axillary artery appeared to have bled very little, if at all, at the moment of the injury, and there was no subsequent hemorrhage. The artery and vein were laid bare for full three inches of their course by the laceration; the ends of these vessels for three-quarters of an inch were curved, plugged with coagulum, and tapering to a point; the pulsation of the artery was full to the very base of the plug of coagulum.1 Guthrie saw a soldier who had his arm carried away by the bursting of a shell. The axillary artery as it becomes brachial was torn across, and hung down lower than the other divided parts, and pulsated to the very extremity. Pressed and squeezed between his fingers in every way in order to make it bleed, it still resisted every attempt, although apparently by the narrowest possible barrier, which appeared to be at the end of the artery, and formed by its contraction. The canal was marked by a small red point, to which a very slight and thin layer of coagulum adhered, the removal of which, how- ever, did not produce hemorrhage. In another case of like character, Guthrie cut off the end of the artery at less than one-eighth of an inch from the extremity, and then it bled with its usual vigor. In both cases the artery was contracted for that distance, so as to leave little or no canal at its orifice, and what there was was filled by a pin- shaped coagulum.2 With a view to illustrate the effects of avulsion on the bloodvessels, Mr. Joseph Bell showed the common femoral artery and vein of a man whose lower extremity had been torn off by machinery. The abdominal cavity was opened and the intestines protruded; but, notwithstanding, he survived thirty hours. The artery and vein were completely occluded by firm coagula, and the external coat was twisted to a fine point at the place of rupture.3 But the reader must not infer from these examples that the hemorrhage ceases spontaneously in all cases where limbs are torn oif by machinery or by cannon-balls, without the loss of much blood; for such is not the fact. In the largest arteries, such as the common femoral, and .occasionally, though much less frequently, in smaller vessels, haemostasis does not always happen when they are disrupted, unless it is aided by the occurrence of syncope; and then the hemorrhage often proceeds to such an extent as to prove fatal, as happened in the following instance, which also occurred in the Crimean War:— A soldier had his leg below the knee carried away by a round shot. He lost much blood before a tourniquet was applied, and was so much collapsed when received at the hospital that an operation was out of the question. The wound was dressed and the tourniquet removed ; but he never rallied, and died nine days after the casualty, although no further hemorrhage occurred.4 During the progress of our civil war, several cases came to my own knowl- edge in which the ragged stumps of limbs torn off by cannon-balls or shells bled profusely at the moment of injury, and afterward did not entirely cease to bleed until ligatures were applied. In some of them the loss of blood was so great as to cause a fatal result of itself, although surgical aid was promptly afforded. When limbs are plucked off from the trunk by machinery, however, as not unfrequently happens in manufactories, there is usually not so much hemor- 1 Surgical History of the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 340. 2 Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, p. 224. ® British Medical Journal, January 18, 1873, p. 77. 4 Op. cit., p. 340.