649 DISLOCATION OF THE LOWER JAW. Extension may sometimes be accompanied by rotary and rocking movements of the displaced bone, so made as to favor its disentanglement from resisting bands, and especially to allow its insinuation into the lacerated opening or slit of the capsular ligament, made by the head of the bone in its escape from its normal position. "When the effort at reduction has been successful, the bone is1 often felt to slip into place suddenly, and sometimes with a dull sound, most inappro- priately called in surgical terminology the “snap” of reduction. Under anaesthesia the sound is much less distinct, on account of the muscular re- laxation thus obtained. In the reduction of an old dislocation, the head of the bone makes its way , so slowly into the socket as usually to cause no jerk or perceptible sound to indicate the precise time when it has arrived in its proper position. After Care.—When reduction has been effected, the injured limb must be kept in such a posture, and so dressed and treated, as (1) to provide against the liability of the bone again to become luxated, (2) to combat the tendency to inflammation, and (3) to restore the mobility of the joint. The importance of these indications is in the order given. Liability to redisplacement in simple uncomplicated luxations is great in a few joints, but not in the majority. It can almost certainly be controlled by care in keeping the parts at rest. Rest is the most important factor also in the prevention of excessive inflammation, and in the promotion of repair in the lacerated joint. Splints and retaining bands of various sorts, with or without permanent extension, are made use of to secure repose, and thus to prevent inflammation as well as displacement. Both local and constitutional antiphlogistics are to be vigorously employed when necessary. Threatening synovitis, or such a degree of infiltration and swelling of the soft parts as would seem to endanger the future power of the joint, would form indications for their use. Synovitis occurring as a sequel [. of dislocation is to be treated in the same manner as when produced by any other traumatic cause. To restore the function of the joint, movements should be practised early in some cases, but very cautiously in others. Natural Bone Setters.—The power or gift of “setting” dislocated bones, popularly supposed to reside in certain persons called “natural bone setters,” is not usually exercised upon real dislocations. The sequelae of various in- juries in the form of false anchyloses, are by them falsely pronounced disloca- tions, and treated by various wrenches and jerks hereafter to be described. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw. This accident is rare, constituting only about one per cent, of all disloca- tions. It may occur on one or both sides. Causes.—The causes are external violence, as a blow or a fall, or muscular action. This may occur at a moment when the mouth is widely opened, as in the act of laughing, gaping, or vomiting. I have seen one case in Avhich the bilateral dislocation was produced by the muscular action of vomiting after