351 ARTERIAL THROMBOSIS AND EMBOLISM. Arterial Thrombosis and Embolism.—Though* not as frequent as in phle- bitis, thrombosis and embolism often result from arteritis. The pathology of thrombosis has been given in the section on phlebitis. The process in the arteries is closely analogous to that in the veins. The perfect type of thrombosis from acute, traumatic arteritis, is found after the application of an occluding ligature around an artery. By reason of arrest of the blood current and disturbance of the equilibrium normally existing between the blood and the containing vessels, coagulation takes place on the cardiac side of the ligature, extending back as a rule to the first collateral branch. Immediately following the injury to the vessel, the process of inflammation—true arteritis—commences. The tension of the liga- ture to such a degree as to divide the inner or middle coat, or both, is unneces- sary. I have tied arteries (carotid and subclavian) in human beings, and in horses and dogs, and have specimens which demonstrate successful occlusion of the vessel without division of either of the three tunics. Scarpa advanced this idea years ago, but surgeons generally have decried it. Hone the less is it true, and I am fully convinced by experience that it is safer than the division of one or two coats of a vessel by tightly drawing a narrow, cutting ligature around an artery.1 The coagulation thrombus disappears by fatty degeneration. The perma- nent occlusion is due to new formed tissue springing from the normal cells of the intima. 0. Weber held that the clot became organized into a true tis- sue, into which bloodvessels were projected from the vasa vasorum (Fig. 528). Fig. 528. Longitudinal section of the artery of a dog fifty days after the ligature. Clot injected. Magnified 40 diameters (After 0. Weber.) But Cornil and Ranvier long since disproved this assertion of Weber. Bub- noft'held that the white blood corpuscles emigrated through the walls of the ligatured vessel, permeated the clot, and caused its organization, but Durante (Cornil and Ranvier) has demonstrated that the leucocytes only traverse the walls of the vessel when this has been tied with a double ligature causing a death of the included vessel, and that the leucocytes travel through this dead tissue. They do not permeate the walls of an otherwise healthy artery which has been tied with a single ligature. Cell proliferation takes place rapidly in the intima; granulation buds pro- See cases by the author in Archives of Medicine, New York, June, 1882.