INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 60 compressed on the cardiac side of the wound. In such cases valuable or even decisive information may be obtained by exploring the wound with a finger; for thus the surgeon can feel the blood issuing in jets when it proceeds from the open mouth of an artery. As already stated,.I am convinced from my own observations, that a very large proportion of the persons killed in battle perish directly from loss of blood. On March 25, 1865, I examined the bodies of forty-three Confederate soldiers, killed in the assault on Fort Steadman, on the ground where they had fallen, in the lines before Petersburg. Twenty-three of them had been shot in the head ; fifteen, in the chest; and five, in the abdomen. The blanched and exsanguinated appearance of the cadaver in the case of every one wounded in the abdomen, showed clearly that death had been caused by hemorrhage; and the extreme rapidity with which the result had followed the wound implied that some large bloodvessel had been opened. In the cases of all but two or three of those wounded in the chest, the body presented the peculiarly blanched- appearance belonging to death from loss of blood. There was much blood in the clothing and on the ground where these men had fallen, in most instances where the trunk was wounded, and in some where the head was wounded. This circumstance shows that the hemorrhage was often external as well as internal. It is not improbable that in some cases where the cadaver did not present a blanched appearance, death was indirectly caused by traumatic extravasation of blood into the cavity of the chest, or that of the cranium, whereby the brain or the lungs sustained a compression which soon proved fatal. On June 8,1862, Private "Wallace Fairchild, Co. K, 106th Pa. Vols., was wounded in a skirmish at the rifle-pits near Fair Oaks, Va., by a sabre-bayonet, in the left thigh, the femoral artery being divided; this soldier bled to death before sur- gical attendance could be had. On the next day, June 9, Private Charles Riley, Co. G, 71st Pa. Vols., was shot through the neck by a musket or rifle ball, while on picket-duty near Fair Oaks, Ya., and died of hemorrhage in a few minutes. Both cases were reported under the head of “ killed,” as death oc- curred on the field very soon after the mishap, and before removal could be effected. My own experience in this regard does not differ much from that of others. Major Richard Banning, 80th Ohio Vols., received at Corinth, October 8, 1862, a gunshot wound. The missile passed through his neck, just in front of the carotid artery. He died on the field, from hemorrhage.1 The late Hr. Otis personally made “ an aggregate of seventy-six observations of the bodies of the slain, on the field ” of battle. The mortal wound was in the head in twenty-seven; in the neck in four ; in the chest in thirty-two; in the abdomen in nine; and in the thigh in four instances. In the Hew Zealand War of 1863-5, of one hundred and eighteen men who were killed in battle, forty were wounded in the head; four in the neck; fifty-nine in the chest; eleven in the abdomen; and four in the thigh.2 Guthrie states that General Sir Edward Packenham received a wound directly through the common iliac artery, at Hew Orleans, which killed him on the spot, and that Colonel Duckworth, of the 48th Regiment, received a ball through the edge of his leathern stock, at Albuhera, which divided the carotid artery, and killed him almost instantaneously. I am, therefore, led by the observations of others, as well as by my own experience, to believe that a very large propor- tion, probably one-half, of those slain in battle, die either directly or indirectly from hemorrhage. How, an inquiry of much practical moment suggests itself, viz.: What 1 Medical and Surgical History of tlie War of the Rebellion. First Surgical Volume, p. 411. 2 Ibid., p. 603.