186 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. The inapplicability of styptics, such as the persulphate and the perchloride •of iron, etc., to the treatment of hemorrhage from gunshot wounds of arte- ries, has already been pointed out. (See page 175.) Incised Wounds of Arteries. The incised wounds of arteries are inflicted with knives of various sizes and shapes, with sharpened swords or sabres, and with many of the edge- tools used in the mechanic arts. A sharp cutting instrument cleaves the tissues -with the least possible disturbance of their histological elements, and leaves the opposing surfaces of the section or wound smooth, even, or level, and in the best possible condition for speedy and perfect reparation. But the same circumstances favor the outflow of blood; for the smoothly divided vessels present no such mechanical obstacles to hemorrhage, at their open mouths, as are seen in most other wounds. The incised wounds of arteries are inflicted in accidents, with design, and in war. When arteries are invaded by cutting instruments, the lesion consists either of a complete division of the arterial tube, or of a partial division, or of a divi- sion of the sheath and the external tunic only, or of a mere puncture of all the arterial tunics. But the punctured wounds of arteries are often caused by instruments other than cutting ones, and therefore this form of injury •constitutes a separate class, which we have already attentively considered. The incised wounds of arteries are more prone to bleed than the contused, or the lacerated, or the gunshot wounds, for reasons just stated above. The hemorrhage but seldom, if ever, ceases spontaneously when large arteries are severed by sharp-edged instruments, unless death is at hand, and there is no longer any blood to flow away. But the bleeding from the contused, and the lacerated, and the gunshot severance of arteries, having a similar size, not unfrequently stops of itself, as we have already shown. Incised wounds of .arteries are characterized as a class by excessive hemorrhage; and they are more liable as a class to produce death by primary bleeding than any other form of vascular injury. When a small artery is but partially divided by a cutting instrument, it is always more difficult to stanch the hemorrhage than it is when the same vessel is completely divided. Thus, in abstracting blood from the temporal artery (arteriotomy), when it becomes necessary to stop the bleeding, the first thing to be done is to completely divide the artery at the place where it has been opened, and then a moderate amount of pressure applied for a short time at the place of division will generally suffice to permanently suppress the bleeding. But, if the division of the artery be not made complete in such a case, if pressure be applied for the purpose of arresting the outflow of blood while the arterial tube is only partly divided, then it generally follows that either a traumatic aneurism is formed in the wound, or secondary hemor- rhages successively ensue, which may place the patient’s life in great peril, even where an artery as small as the anterior branch of the temporal is the vessel involved in the lesion. In cases of incised wounds in general, where the hemorrhage from small arteries that are but partially divided gives trouble, the first thing to be done for suppressing it is to complete the division ■of the bleeding vessels. Thus we perceive that the treatment of the incised wounds of arteries must be conducted on principles somewhat different from those which obtain in treating the contused, the lacerated, and the gunshot ^wounds of arteries. The two following examples usefully illustrate what takes place when a