INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 562 eminent surgeons have believed that they had found the cause of tetanus in the presence of a ligature around a nerve. These cases must be seriously considered, and care should be taken, in ligating arteries, that the nerves are not included. If the occurrence of such an accident is recognized, the ligature should be cut without hesitation, contrary to the practice which would seem to be indicated by a remark of Richerand, quoted by Descot, to the effect that, if in a ligation the nerve is taken up at the same time as the artery, it is not necessary to recommence the manoeuvre. The practice of arterial ligation en masse may also, therefore, be not without danger. On the removal of parts with the ecraseur or ligature, there are generally en- countered only small nerve ramifications, which are not protected with a thick neurilemma. These operations are painful, but do not appear to be accompanied secondarily by grave nervous symptoms. Cauterization of Nerves.—But little need be said of the effects of cau- terization upon nerves. Formerly employed in the treatment of certain diseases of the nerves, it is at the present day abandoned. It is to be re- membered that the nerve-trunks and branches, by the thickness of their sheaths and the mode of distribution of their vessels, resist, better than the other soft tissues, the different processes and agents of disorganization— burns and cauterizations. This is a fact which should not be forgotten in cases of deep burn. Ranke admits that heat may cause rigidity of nerves, as it does muscular rigidity. Some authors also admit that the physical and chemical constitution of nerves may be modified by cold. Crecchio has seen the medullary substance of the nerve-fibres become solid, a phenomenon accompanied by suppression of every nervous manifestation. Cauterization is seldom followed by accidents. There is, however, a case recorded by Dr. Frere, in which an application of caustic potassa involved the musculo-cutaneous nerve; there ensued a flexion of the forearm upon the arm, trismus, and tetanic contraction of the muscles of the neck and trunk, and the patient died on the fifth day. IY. Phenomena Consecutive to Injuries of Nerves. Process of Repair after Wounds of Nerves.—The knowledge of the phenomena which result in the regeneration of nerves after traumatisms which have destroyed their continuity, is entirely due to experimental physi- ology. It is by the aid of experiments made upon animals that it has been possible to follow, day by day, the delicate modifications which are produced in the intimate structure of the divided nerve-trunks, and which in time bring about, with an anatomical restoration ad integrum, the re-establishment of the suppressed functions. The discovery of Waller, in showing that every nerve separated from its trophic centre undergoes a complete degeneration of its peripheral end, marks the first step in this line of research. Waller saw, at the same time, that the degenerated segment was not for ever destroyed, but that after a certain time there took place a true work of regeneration. He considered this re- generation to be the result of a kind of budding of the nerve-fibre remaining in connection with the axis cylinder, the parts of the nerve separated from the centre not taking any part in the process. The experiments of Remak, Schiff, Yulpian, Neumann, and Ranvier, have completed the teachings of Waller. In order to thoroughly understand the manner in wdiich the repair of a divided nerve is effected, it is well to rapidly review the modifications under-