CAUSES OP ANEURISM. 387 We have yet to consider what primary cause can originate the chronic endarteritis leading to these changes. It must be observed that it is not a disease of early life; we do not meet with it before the age of thirty, seldom before that of forty-five. Congenital or acquired syphilis, tuberculosis, rheu- matism, alcoholism, do not seem capable of causing during youth the endar- teritis which ends in atheromatous thickening.1 Another point to be ob- served is the absence, with very rare exceptions, of atheromatous thickening in the venous system, a fact which some writers have regarded as supporting the view that the malady originated in a deposit from arterial blood. But it should be recollected that the pulmonary veins which contain red blood are at least as free from atheroma as the arteries of like name which contain dark blood ; also it should be remarked that the tunics of the venous system are differently constituted; nor are they exposed to the same amount of pressure from within. Syphilis.—A certain number of writers, chiefly military surgeons, consider atheroma and aneurism essentially syphilitic, and this view is strongly up- held by Dr. Aitken,2 who says : “I believe that a large proportion of cases of inflammation of the large vessels ending in atheroma are of syphilitic origin,” and doubtless some records of military surgery seem at first sight to support this idea. Thus Mr. Welch3 relates that of thirty-four cases of aneurism in the army, seventeen occurred in syphilitic soldiers; but such numbers prove nothing, unless it be known what proportion of the regiments from which these men came were similarly affected. Mr. Lawson, in his statistics,4 shows that aneurism is more frequent in the military than in the civil population; but here again the other circumstances of military life are not known or no- ticed. Mr. Myers5 has very ably sifted the statistic numbers, and the infer- ence drawn from them, thus: Syphilis is about equally prevalent in the army and in the navy, but for aneurism the numbers for four years are :— Army strength. Aneurism per 1000. Navy strength. Aneurism 1862 . . 49,332 .28 58,870 .11 1863 . . 44,291 .47 54,090 .05 1864 . . 40,539 .37 53,000 .18 1865 . . 42,228 .35 51,210 .09 Both sets of men are subject to much the same influences of climate—both have to undergo considerable bodily exertion. But the sailor wears a loose overshirt, with no constriction around the neck; the soldier a tightly-fitting coat with a tight collar, obstructing circulation in the axillaries and carotids. The soldier suffers especially from aortic aneurism. Moreover, it is to be observed that we frequently encounter in the post- mortem room the bodies of children or young persons in an advanced con- dition of syphilis, whose viscera may be more or less studded with gummata, but atheroma is quite as rare with them as with healthy individuals, nor does it begin at an earlier period of life in the one set than in the other. Tour cases 1 It should, be here remarked that certain aneurisms are marked with these thickenings, even though in comparatively youthful subjects ; but the stretching or tearing that the vascular tunics must, in order to permit of aneurism, undergo is, in all probability, the direct cause of localized endarteritis, since when we find on an aneurism, especially if the patient be young, one or two such nodules, while the rest of the vascular system is healthy, we are not to conclude that the atheroma produced the aneurism; the sequence of causality is probably exactly the reverse. 2 Science and Practice of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 630. 3 Med.-Chirurg. Trans., vol. lix. p. 59. 4 Transactions of Army Medical Department, 1866. 5 Pathological Transactions, vol. xx. p. 134.