80 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. agent has come down to us from the most ancient times; but when and where it was first employed is now entirely unknown. It was, however, well known to Celsus in the first century after Christ; to Galen about the close of the second century; to Aetius in the fifth, to Paulus HCgineta in the seventh, and to Rhazes in the tenth century. Moreover, Rhazes recom- mended the employment of two ligatures in order to suppress traumatic hemor- rhage, of which one should be put round the artery on each side of the aperture, because blood might issue from the inferior portion of the artery, that is, regurgitant or distal hemorrhage might occur, if the distal portion of the artery were not also tied. Rhazes recommended the complete severance of the wounded vessel, so that its cut extremities might retract. Avicenna in the eleventh, Albucasis in the twelfth, and Averrhoes in the thirteenth cen- tury were well acquainted with ligation as a haemostatic measure. The early modern writers on surgery mention all the ancient methods of arresting hemorrhage. Guy of Chauliac recommended the ligature on the authority of Galen and Avicenna. It was also recommended by Brunus, Theodoricus, Rolandus, and Lanfrancus. Thus it appears clear that the use of ligatures for arresting surgical hemorrhages was well known to the ancient surgeons, and was never forgotten, even in the darkest ages. Nevertheless, the glory of introducing the ligature as a haemostatic agent in amputations is unquestionably due to Ambroise Pare. In 1564 he pub- lished an account of his discovery, which, he says substantially, he was enabled to make by the special favor of the sacred Deity. But so slowly did the ligature make its way into general favor, that Sharpe, one of the surgeons to Guy’s Hospital, writing in 1761, two centuries after its introduc- tion into the great operations of surgery by Pare, found it necessary, in his well-known work, entitled “A Critical Enquiry into the Present State of Surgery,” formally to advocate its employment for the arrest of hemorrhage from wounded arteries, in preference to styptics or the cautery, on the ground that “ it was not as yet universally practised amongst surgeons residing in the more distant counties” of England. But why did it take two centuries to diffuse everywhere the employment of the simplest and the best surgical means which we possess for suppressing surgical hemorrhages? The reason simply was that surgeons in general were quite ignorant of the natural pro- cess of haemostasis, and, consequently, knew not how the ligatures should be applied, nor of what form and material they should be made. Indeed, it was not until Dr. Jones, by appealing to experiment, and by a series of admirably-conducted investigations, showed that the division of the internal and middle coats of the artery, while tightening the noose, the very thing that surgeons then wTere most anxious to avoid, was the point on which the patient’s safety actually depended, and pointed out the form and size of ligature that was most safe, the amount of traction which should be used in tying it, and the processes employed by nature for making the occlusion of the vessel permanent; it was not until all this was done by Dr. Jones, that sur- geons in general acquired full confidence in the ligation of bloodvessels as, par excellence, the haemostatic measure. Avicenna recommended the employment of a “flaxen thread” for the liga- tion of wounded arteries. In our day, the materials chiefly used for making ligatures are silk, hemp, flax, silver, lead, iron, and the tissues of animals. Those of uncolored silk, soaked for half an hour in carbolized wax in a melted state, are preferred by many surgeons. There are two kinds of silken thread which answer best, the saddler’s and the dentist’s. But, whatever the material may be, the ligature should be round in shape, and should cor- respond in size to the artery to be tied. For small vessels it need not be larger than ordinary sewing-silk, and this size is large enough for the radial,