INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL 22 removal is seldom a permanent one. In tense, thin- or moderately thick- walled cysts, pressure with the thumbs will suffice to burst them, rapid absorption of the effused contents will follow, and by the after-application of pressure a cure may he effected, though recurrence is likely to take place. In the case of firmer ganglia, forcible rupture, as, for instance, by striking them with a heavy book or weight, is* not to be advised, on account of the likelihood of exciting severe inflammation. Subcutaneous section and lace- ration of the sac with a knife or spear-pointed needle is much to be preferred. The more radical operations of excision or open division have until recently been but little favored, on account of the great danger of exciting acute teno- synovitis, but now it is claimed that by the observance of strict antiseptic precautions all such risk may be avoided, and that in free incision with “ thorough drainage and the promotion of the development of a granulation tissue” we have the best and safest method of permanently curing all forms of ganglia. Tumors of Tendons.—These, like tumors of muscles, though occasionally originating from the tendon itself or its investing sheath, in the great majo- rity of cases come from without, and by extension include or invade the tendon secondarily. They may be either cystic or solid, benign or malignant; due to some unknown cause, or directly consequent upon a constitutional affection, most generally syphilis. Ordinarily the tendon-involvement nei- ther adds to the difficulty of diagnosis nor to the gravity of the case, except as it increases functional impairment, for the relief of which operative inter- ference may be rendered necessary. Cystic tumors have already been consi- dered. Syphilitic affections present much the same phenomena as when located in the bellies of the muscles, and are to be treated in a similar manner. At times a small and slowly-developing fibroma is found upon a tendon or its sheath, for instance, a finger-flexor, which by its presence may so interfere with movement as to make it advisable to remove the part or dissect off the growth. As a result of the latter procedure, tenosynovitis not seldom occurs; and though the likelihood of this happening may be materially lessened by the employment of the antiseptic method, still the danger is sufficiently great to compel a postponement of the operation until it is imperatively demanded. Ossification of Tendons.—Bone-deposit of limited extent is frequently found in tendons, the ossification usually affecting the insertion-end. Met with as a consequence of frequently repeated slight blows or pressure (as in the so-called “ exercise bones”), it may be due to nutritive change resulting from general disease, as in the subjects of rheumatoid arthritis, or may be conse- quent upon contiguous joint- or bone-injury, as in cases of old unreduced dis- locations, or of fractures in which union has slowly taken place, and has been associated with the production of a large amount of callus. The diagnosis of bone-transformation is usually easy when the tendon is so superficial as to be readily felt. For the relief of the disability, if such there be, arising from the presence of these bony masses, nothing can be done except by operative interference, and this is but very rarely required or advisable. Injuries and Diseases of Fascial Investing and compressing the great muscular masses of the body, separat- ing them from the superficial structures, and isolating them one from another, are found fascial sheets and aponeuroses, which have a positive surgical as