161 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OP ARTERIES. oughly and faithfully compressing the main trunk on the cardiac side of the lesion, keeping the arm at the same time fastened to the chest by a broad roller, unless he possesses more than ordinary ability for operating on blood- vessels, and has the aid of at least one assistant, who is almost as competent as himself for such undertakings. When, however, the laceration being but slight and restricted to the inner and middle coats of the axillary artery, the aneurismal tumor is developed but slowly, and has not yet attained a very considerable size—while it is also quite circumscribed, and has a genuine sac or a well-defined wall consisting of the external tunic of the artery, strengthened outwardly by laminae of condensed connective tissue—it may be expedient to tie the subclavian artery in the third part of its course on the plan of Hunter, as was practised by Mott with success in a case which I have already presented. But in all cases where the tumefaction is very great, or is caused by extravasation of blood into the connective tissue of the armpit, the only plan of ligation ad- missible is the “ old operation,” whereby the clots are all taken out, and the artery itself is secured on each side of the laceration, and also divided mid- way between the two ligatures ; for when this procedure is employed in such cases, the liability to death from secondary hemorrhage, or from suppuration of the sac, becomes very much less than it would be were Hunter’s or Anel’s operation performed. Furthermore, the surgeon should never make haste to use the knife so much as to ignore the diagnostic signs of this lesion; and in their absence he should place his main dependence on compression. Before quitting this subject it will be useful for me to point out the prin- cipal methods by which compression may be successfully applied to the sub- clavian artery for the cure of axillary aneurism ; and I cannot do this more clearly and tersely than by presenting a few examples in point :•— A man, aged 71, under the care of Mr. Erichsen, in whom the aneurismal tumor had been noticed only one month, had compression applied for twenty-five hours —digital compression for eleven hours and mechanical for fourteen. The treatment ex- tended from June 23 to August 12, and resulted in cure.1 Mr. Cooper Forster also records a case. Pressure (digital and with a key) was ap- plied to the subclavian, at intervals, for three days, with some benefit; and then, under chloroform, with a key above the clavicle, for five and a half hours, with complete suc- cess. It was, however, continued three hours longer.2 M. Verneuil3 had under his care a man suffering from an aneurism in the left axilla, having a diameter of about three and a half inches. First the arm was carried back- ward, pronated, and adducted, and fastened in this position to the thorax, but the patient could not bear this position of the limb any considerable length of time. Then digital compression of the subclavian artery (above the clavicle) was continued for twenty-four hours, but had to be abandoned, as the assistants became fatigued. A thick plaster of gypsum was now laid in the supra-clavicular region, and digital com- pression was made through it until the plaster had become hardened. From the model of the part thus obtained, a leaden cast, weighing six and a half pounds, was made, and it was used for effecting compression of the subclavian, its potency being increased by means of a handle. The patient ultimately attached to the handle three bands, which were fastened to the bed in various directions, and kept the mass of lead in place. This plan succeeded perfectly, when the weight was increased to about eleven pounds. By this means the subclavian artery was compressed during six or seven hours daily for about ten weeks, at the end of which time the size of the swelling had become reduced by nearly one-half, and the pulsations had almost ceased. The patient 1 Lancet, November 15,1873. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d S. vol. xviii. p. 61. 3 Gazette Hebdomadaire, No. 12,1873. VOL. III.—11