. INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 720 The term irritable joint seems to me not well chosen, because the symptoms described are those of inflammation. Prof. Agnew advises immobility and counter-irritation. If synovitis is present, extension as well as immobility is desirable; in short, the treatment is the same as in other joint inflammations. Wounds of Joints. This very important class of injuries comprises several varieties, viz., in- cised wounds, punctured wounds, lacerated wounds, compound dislocations, and compound fractures including gunshot wounds. Strictly speaking, these varieties are not always distinct, for a gunshot wound of an articulation is always lacerated, and is generally also a compound fracture; nevertheless this division of the subject facilitates its discussion. I. Incised Wounds of Joints. These are the simplest of the penetrating traumatisms of joints. The causes, of course, are the entrance of any sharp instrument into the capsule of the articulation. The primary symptoms are not necessarily conspicuous. Gene- rally there is a perceptible effusion of synovia, which, in doubtful cases, serves to establish the diagnosis, and, in some instances, by keeping up a. slight outward flow, prevents for several days the entrance of septic bacteria into the cavity, and prolongs the time in which the surgeon has an opportunity to close or guard the orifice, and to prevent the occurrence of purulent syno- vitis. The synovial secretion is recognizable by its transparency and viscidity, but the wound of a bursa near the joint may sometimes yield a similar fluid, and thus throw doubt on the diagnosis. In such a case, cautious probing is justifiable, if the probe be dipped in an antiseptic solution, and if the orifice of the wound be kept guarded by irrigation with the same. The intimation of some authors, however, that the surgeon may dismiss his anxiety and his precautions, in case he find only a bursa wounded, is absurd; for many ot the bursae around articulations have open communications with the synovial sacs of the joints, and may propagate through these orifices the most deadly suppurative inflammation. Treatment.—Incised wounds of joints should be treated throughout with antiseptic precautions of the most thorough character. If carbolic acid is the article selected for the wash or spray, one part to forty is a good proportion. Carbolized oil, for use on lint, should be stronger, say one part to twelve. The examination, the cleansing from foreign substances, the suppression of hemorrhage, and the closure of the wound, should all be effected under anti- septic protection. I am no advocate for all the details ot Listerism, and hold the spray especially to be often a very undesirable, as well as an inefficient, antiseptic guard; but in dressing wounded joints it is frequently very useful, though never indispensable. The principle to be acted upon is simply this: that there must be allowed no opportunity for septic particles, floating in the atmosphere, to remain in a living state, either on or in the wound. This is the end to be aimed at, and every well-educated surgeon must select his own means of attaining it. If the joint have been widely opened, or contaminated by the admission of foreign substances into the sac, the interior must.be antiseptically washed out. If the wound be small and recent, and no special reason exist for believ-