235 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC BLOODVESSELS. 3 Ibid., p. 325. vena cava or the aorta, than to stuff the wound with lint saturated with Monsel’s solution, as has been done in more than one mortal hemorrhage. (Otis.) When, therefore, the abdomen has been penetrated by a wound, and con- siderable bleeding takes place, it is necessary to search for the injured vessel. When it comes from one of the mesenteric arteries or from the epigastric, the wound should be enlarged until the bleeding artery is exposed, and then ligatures should be placed on both ends. (Guthrie.) To the dictum of Guthrie just presented, I would add that the vessel from which the deadly hemorrhage is issuing, whatever its name and rank may be, must be found, and ligatured above and below, if possible. Effusions of blood into the abdominal cavity which do not directly kill by syncope, may do so indirectly. When the quantity is large, the blood fails to become absorbed; it then decomposes, and causes death by inducing septicaemia or by exciting peritonitis. In penetrating wounds, therefore, after the hemorrhage has been suppressed by ligature, the extravasated blood should be evacuated as completely as pos- sible, and antiseptic precautions should be employed. Wounds of the pelvic bloodvessels have been but little studied. In civil as well as in military practice, the cases belonging to this group will sometimes present the most difficult as well as the gravest problems to the surgeon. Wounds of the Common Iliac Aktery.—The first ligation of the common iliac artery, it will be remembered, was performed by Gibson, to suppress the hemorrhage from a shot-wound. Our Army Medical Museum contains a specimen in which the right common iliac artery is perforated by a pistol- ball. A wood-cut illustrating this specimen has already been presented. (Eig. 296, Vol. II., p. 198.) The patient survived the casualty twelve minutes; and had a competent surgeon been at hand, the injured vessel might have been successfully tied on each side of the perforation, the main trunk meanwhile being firmly compressed, and the distal ligature first ap- plied. Bogros, in Yelpeau’s presence, dissected a subject with a similar wound. Larrey1 records a case of sword-puncture of the iliac vein and artery, treated apparently with success by provisional compression and the method of Val- salva. Such instances, however, are rare; but wounds of the branches of these vessels—of the gluteal, pudic, obturator, and sciatic arteries-—often come under treatment, and their management requires the utmost discrimination.2 During the late civil war, hemorrhage was the most important complica- tion in numerous cases of wounds penetrating the pelvis, and in many of them the precise source of the bleeding was not determined. It was not always decided even whether the bleeding vessels were branches of the external or of the internal iliac. In no region, too, was the application of the cardinal rule of ligaturing a wounded vessel above and below the lesion more difficult, and in none were the consequences of neglecting this rule more disastrous.3 Wounds of the Internal Iliac Artery.—The primary lesions of this vessel, like those of the common iliac artery, but seldom receive surgical treatment, because death from hemorrhage too speedily ensues. A case, however, is reported in the history of the late civil war, in which this artery appears to have been wounded by a musket-ball, and the man was taken to a field-hospital, where he died from internal hemorrhage fifteen hours after 1 Clinique Chirurgicale, 1829, t. iii. p. 156. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., p. 323.