ANEURISM. 396 was removed, but to my relief no hemorrhage occurred. During the next week every precaution to meet such an event was adopted, but the emergency never arose. The man suffered a slight pyaemic attack, which, indeed, had existed before the operation; but he recovered without any local disaster. Cyst or Abscess coexisting. with Aneurism.-—-A cyst may, as a great rarity, lie over and conceal an aneurism; or, more commonly, an abscess may arise around such a tumor, so that the pus bathes the outer surface of the sac. Great embarrassment of diagnosis must, especially if no bruit exist, be thus produced. Yet a certain flaccidity follows compression on the artery above, and deep palpation will generally detect pulsation. Dr. Haens, as quoted by Dr. Stephen Smith, opened an abscess of this sort; eight days afterwards the aneurism burst, and hemorrhage ensued. Mistake could hardly be im- puted to the surgeon ; the diagnosis of abscess was correct, but the whole dis- ease was not made out.1 When an abscess opens into an aneurism (the same thing may happen to a cyst), or into a previously healthy artery, the wall of the abscess becomes the aneurismal sac; the symptoms of abscess and of aneurism become combined. Bruit will almost certainly be present, and flac- cidity must surely, in all cases, be produced by commanding the circulation above; it is hardly possible that both these symptoms should be absent. Let me again especially point out that the presence of fluctuation, inflam- mation, and redness of the skin, with an appearance of pointing, in no wise negative the presence of aneurism. Where the slightest doubt exists it is better to temporize; a few days often bring a difference that clears up the obscurity. Solid tumors overlying an artery often closely resemble aneurism. Dr. Erskine Mason records an error made by himself and many consultants, in considering a sarcoma in the popliteal space to be an aneurism,2 while Dr. Dunning made the opposite error of cutting into an aneurism (popliteal) which was supposed to be a sarcoma.3 Similar errors have been made by English and Continental surgeons ; it will be perceived, therefore, that some- times the simulation of one disease by the other must be very close.4 Most sarcomatous, malignant, and cystic tumors, are less definite in outline than aneurism, less even on the surface, and less globular. The bruit, if any exist, is not the peculiar whirr or blowing of an aneurism, nor is the alternation of loudness and softness with systole and diastole as well marked as in that affection; it is rather a confused, indefinite, and nearly equable murmur or rushing sound, the intensity of which varies at different parts of the tumor.5 6 Many of these tumors, those, namely, that are very vascular, or that contain blood-cysts, become smaller and softer when the artery above is compressed, but less rapidly than an aneurism, and, on releasing the vessel, the refilling isnotwith such a sudden bound, nor does the pulsation recommence at once with the same —its usual—degree of force, but, beginning with less, attains in a given number of beats its accustomed intensity. The pulsation varies in strength in different 1 An additional reason for caution in dealing with fluid tumors over an artery. 2 Dr. Mason especially says, “ On applying the stethoscope there is heard a loud and distinct bruit,” but he does not say if the test by emptying and refilling of the sac was attempted. (American Journal of the Medical Sciences, Jan. 1877.) 3 New York Medical Record, August 5, 1876. 4 Jessop (Lancet, Jan. 4,1873) tied the femoral artery for a supposed aneurism, occupying the lower two-thirds of the thigh. The pulsation was weak, and ceased on compressing the artery above, but the tumor did not diminish in size. Thirteen weeks after, gangrene supervened ; in the sixteenth week she died. The tumor was a fibroma. 6 Mr. Holmes remarks (St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1874), that the amount of sound is not commensurate with the size of the tumor; but I am not aware that in aneurism the loudness of sound depends at all on the size of the tumor; very large aneurisms often emit a verv gentle bruit, or none at all.