714 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. A healthy man sustains a fracture of the forearm. Splints are applied in the usual way, and occasionally re-applied. After a number of weeks the bones are united, and the man is discharged, cured. He is still unable to use either his hand or his forearm, but is assured that his difficulty arises only from the stiffness incidental to their long rest, and that it will soon disappear. Instead of disappearing, it rather increases, and in due time he seeks the aid of a bone-setter. The arm and forearm are then bent nearly at right angles to each other; the forearm is intermediate between pronation and supination ; the hand in a line with it; and the fingers are straight and rigid. Passive motion can be accomplished within narrow limits, but produces sharp pain, localized in some single spot about each joint, in which spot there will be tender- ness on pressure. The bone-setter will tell the man that his wrist and his elbow are “ out.” The man may object that the injury had been in the middle of the forearm. The reply is that perhaps the forearm had indeed been broken as alleged, but that the wrist and the elbow had been “ put out” at the same time, and that these injuries had been overlooked by the doctors. The bone-setter would then, by a rapid manipula- tion hereafter to be described, at once overcome the stiffness of the fingers, and enable the patient to move them to and fro. The instant benefit would dispel all scruples about submitting the wrist and the elbow to manipulation, and these also would be set free in their turn. The man would go away, easily flexing and extending his lately rigid joints, and fully convinced that he had sustained grievous harm at the hands of his legitimate doctors. The traditional pathology of the natural bone-setters is that everything is “ out”—that is, dislocated—and that their manipulations “ s$t it.” Some- times a trick is resorted to, to give the patient the sensation of something “ slipping into joint.” For instance, the following case fell under my own notice:— A patient sprained the articulations of the centre of his tarsus, but, after careful examination by a thoroughly trained surgeon, no displacement of the parts was found. The inflammation and swelling were slowly subsiding, when the foot was submitted to a “ natural bone-setter.” He at once found a bone “ out,” as usual; and placing a thumb with firm pressure on the extensor longus pollicis tendon, on the dorsum of the foot, he dexterously manipulated, so that the tendon slipped suddenly sideways from under the end of his thumb, with a sharp, painful sensation. The patient probably believes to this day that he felt the bone “ slip into place,” and attributes his continued recovery to the “ setting.” As far as “ natural bone-setting” consists of mere tricks and lies, we may dismiss it with other forms of quackery, but that part of the business which consists in restoring joints to usefulness, which educated physicians have been unable to cure, is well worth the attention of scientific men. The art and science of “natural bone-setting,” as practised by the best specimens of the craft, may be summed up in about four propositions :■— (1) All troublesome joints are “ out.” (2) If there is no active inflammation, they are to be “ set” by the mani- pulations presently to be described. (3) Inflammatory cases are to be rejected, or else treated until soothing measures have subdued the inflammation, and then “ set.” (4) All subsequent improvement is to be ascribed to the “ setting.” The real state of facts is as follows:— (1) Joints which for various reasons have been kept immovable for several weeks or months, become more or less fixed in position from the contraction of muscles and ligaments, which, having never for a long time been put on the stretch, adjust their nutrition to their shortened form. (2) When injuries have occurred in the vicinity, certain parts may become adherent, such as tendons to their sheaths, or planes of ligamentous fibres to other planes, above or beneath them, on which they ought to slide freely.