ANEURISM. 444 jerked, or otherwise improperly handled, would always do so. Hence, after many trials and experiments, I hit on the notion of using the strong middle coat of the ox’s aorta, and devised the following method of manufacture:— Procure from a butcher the aorta of an ox (not split up, as is usual, but entire); see that it comes straight from the slaughter-house, and has not been kept; if it can be made into ligatures at once, it is better; if not, place it till opportunity offers in a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid. Strip off the outer coat.1 The middle and inner coats are then to be cut with a pair of scissors spirally round and round, so as to make the whole into a tape-like cord.2 But in this state the material is too elastic to bear a reliable knot, and it disappears too rapidly, or at least does so in quadrupeds. Both these quali- ties are eliminated by suspending it and hanging upon it a weight of from one-half to two lbs., such as will stretch it half its own length ; two feet of the unstretclied should become three of the stretched ribbon. This should be done in an atmosphere warm enough and dry enough to dessicate the ribbon in about five hours, after which, should any irregularities remain, they may he scraped off with a sharp penknife. The material, as it dries, becomes trans- lucent and horny; like vellum, it will keep any length of time rolled up in a coil, but must not he sharply bent while thus dry. I store it in anti- septic gauze under a glass shade.3 About seventy minutes before use, it is to be steeped in a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid, when it becomes perfectly flexible. It also recovers a little of its elasticity, but not an incon- venient amount; indeed, the knot is probably on this account the more secure, because, in tightening, the material by stretching becomes thinner, and, on relaxing, enlarges again, the enlarged part outside the tie acting as a sort of strut against the knot, which thus as it were clamps itself. For passing it, an aneurism needle is required whose eye is slit a little longer than usual. The cases in which this ligature has been used are not as yet many, but they nave all been such as to show the reliability of the material and the sound- ness of the views above taught; they are:— One left carotid. Tour light carotids ) double distal operations, b our right subclavians j r One right subclavian alone. Two external iliacs (one perhaps was common iliac). Five superficial femorals. One popliteal. One brachial. In none of these sixteen cases has the 'ligature given any trouble, being never seen again; all did well as far as the deligation was concerned. Two of the cases should be especially noted. In a deligation of the femoral (by Mr. Bellamy) as the ligature was drawn tight, a little bleeding occurred a short distance above; probably a little branch running into the muscle was torn. At my request the operator passed two more ligatures of the same material ' At the upper part this tunic is from one-fourth to one-third of an inch thick, loose and almost spongy ; lower down it is thinner and firmer. Care must he taken where the intercostals are given off not to tear the middle coat. 2 After a very little practice it becomes easy to keep the ribbon equally broad throughout, or slightly tapering from the upper and thicker to the lower and thinner part; also so to manage the little openings for the small branches, that they do not interfere. I exhibited, at the Inter- national Congress (Parke’s Museum), a piece of this ligature 36 feet in length. 8 For further details, see the author’s monogragh, already quoted ; also various papers in Med.- Chir. Trans., 1878. 1879, 1880, 1881.