648 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. reduction of all dislocations requiring more force than the unaided hand can bring to bear, the adjuster is equally efficient, taking the place of pulleys, etc. But it is particularly helpful in cases where it is desirable to make use of powerful extension combined with manipulation. Fixed extension, by ropes and counter-bands, holds the patient firmly in a single position, and the direc- tion of the extending force can be but little altered. The Jarvis adjuster, on the other hand, is attached entirely to the patient’s body, and when- it has been set in extension, the force of the pull and counter-pull is exerted indepen- dently of any outside support. The patijent may be placed in any position deemed convenient, and may he moved about without interrupting the exten- sion. The direction of the motion being in a straight line peripherally, in the axis of the limb, from the region of the joint as a centre, the desired extension may be had whether the limb he bent or straight; so that, while with fixed extension only one motion (rotation) can be employed, with the adjuster in place, flexion, adduction, and abduction, can be called in to assist extension. Improved methods of manipulation, together with the expense of the instru- ment, perhaps, have caused it to become nearly obsolete. It is no longer sold by dealers. Still, it remains true, that by its use a certain number of cases may be successfully reduced, which would resist all efforts with the pulleys, or by manipulation. Whatever the source of power may be, the extending line or cord must be attached to the limb in such a way as not to cause injury to the parts sub- jected to its pressure. A secure hold is obtained by wrapping a damp towel about the limb at the place where the attachment is made. Over the towel, the band of linen or other strong material is placed in what sailors call the clove hitch (see Fig. 550). With Jarvis’s adjuster, strong bands of linen webbing are buckled around the limb and furnished with loops for the attach- ment of the cords. Some surgeons make use of broad bands of heavy harness leather, held firmly about the limb by a row of buckles in much the same manner. The extending apparatus of whatever sort, except the adjuster, requires some firm attachment from which the force may act. The post or foot-board of the patient’s bed may sometimes be made use of. A crossbar set in a doorway or window will sometimes be the only means to receive solid sup- port. Screw-hooks and rings, such as are used for this purpose, should be of large size, and so placed as to take hold firmly of the joists, and not merely the weaker parts of the wall. Carelessness in this regard may cause accidents. Counter-extension may be made by the hands of assistants, or solely by the weight of the patient’s body, when no great force is employed in reduction, and particularly if extension is made in an upward direction. Usually the body will have to be fixed when any mechanical aids are required to assist extension. Folded sheets, or other strong cloths, are to be passed about such parts, as we wish to hold firmly in place. The ends of these bands of cloth are held in the hands of assistants, or are tied to some firm object. The position in which a limb should be placed for reduction by extension is that which tends most effectually to relax (1) the untorn portion of the capsular ligament, and (2) the muscles whose resistance is to be overcome. In quality, the force should never be sudden or jerking (except in certain special conditions), but uniform and persistent, gradually increasing and over- coming whatever part of the resisting power may be due to muscular tension, and stretching or tearing, just to the requisite degree, but no further, the ligamentous bands which furnish the remainder of the opposition. Soft tissues yield gradually to this persistent extension, though they would be de- stroyed by sufficient traction to overcome their resistance if it were suddenly applied.