INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 262 of cork, or by a metallic plate fastened to an adjacent tooth, so as to effect permanent pressure for weeks, if necessary—an operation which can be readily performed by any dentist. Of internal remedies, the most trustworthy are acetate of lead and ergot, in large doses frequently repeated. The mineral acids, alum, tannin, etc., are less reliable. In every case, therefore, where the hemorrhage is at all serious* either plumbic acetate in doses of two grains every two hours, or fluid extract of ergot in doses of thirty minims every two hours, should be given until either the bleeding is arrested, or symptoms of poisoning ensue. In bad cases both remedies should be simultaneously administered. At the same time restless- ness should be quieted by exhibiting opium or morphia. It has not unfre- quently happened that this method has succeed fed in rapidly arresting the hemorrhage after local measures have proved entirely fruitless. - In cases of internal bleeding, we are, of course, compelled to rely on this method exclu- sively. The spontaneous external hemorrhages, that is, those of non-traumatic origin* when preceded by various symptoms of plethora and congestion, should not be interfered with until the engorgement of the vessels has, passed away; for in checking the hemorrhage prematurely, we might do far more harm than good. Otherwise, the plan of treatment is the same as the above. The interstitial cutaneous hemorrhages (petechise, ecchymoses, vibices) require no special treatment in bleeders, inasmuch as the loss of blood is inconsider- able ; but as to the subcutaneous interstitial hemorrhages, that is, the hcemato- mata, it is of the first importance to protect these tumors from mechanical injury, and to abstain from opening them prematurely by incision or punc- ture. The rheumatic complications of haemophilia are to be treated in the same way as under ordinary circumstances, with the important exception that all remedies should be carefully avoided w7hich may possibly excite hemorrhage. (Immermann.) Grandidier and others assert that the administration of mercury in any form in the treatment of these rheumatic affections is commonly attended by a temporary aggravation of the hemorrhagic diathesis, and it should therefore be strictly avoided. The following example of haemophilia was reported during the late civil war. It will serve to show how much the operation of deligating the main artery is worth in preventing haemophilic bleedings from gunshot wounds:— Sergeant Henry B., Co. D, 12th New Hampshire Volunteers, aged 21, was admitted! to Emory Hospital, Washington, June 11, 1864, with a gunshot wound of the right shoulder, received at Cold Harbor on the 3d. Fig. 450. A minie-ball had entered below the clav- icle and passed out at the anterior aspect of the arm, about three inches below the shoulder-joint. There was also a flesh- wound of the upper third of the right thigh. The patient had a hemorrhagic diathesis, which his' father stated was hereditary in the family—for example, a simple cut of the finger would cause hem- orrhage to such an amount as to endanger life. Under these circumstances, and upon consultation, it was decided after his first attack of hemorrhage to ligate the subcla- vian. The operation was successfully per- formed on June 17, by Surgeon N. R. Mosely, U. S. V. Strong hopes were enter- tained of the patient’s recovery; but, unfortunately, in addition to his peculiar diathesis. Showing the right subclavian artery divided by a liga- ture in its third part. The preparation was taken from a bleeder. It has been opened longitudinally, behind, to display the small fibrinous coagula. Spec. 2812, Sect. I., A M. M. (Posterior view.)