175 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. the contrary, each of them should he promptly performed by the surgeon whenever it is indicated as the best means at his command for saving life. The treatment of gunshot wounds of arteries, when complicated with gun- shot fractures, will be considered hereafter. Concerning the employment of styptics, as, for instance, the persulphate and the perchloride of iron, etc., as haemostatic agents in hemorrhages from gunshot wounds of arteries, some mention should here he made. In the first place, in the instances where large arteries are opened by musket-balls, etc., they are entirely inadequate to meet the requirements of the case. When the hemorrhage proceeds from small arteries, such styptics, even when aided by local compression and cold, are often worse than useless. Thirteen fatal cases of bleeding from the minor branches of arteries in the upper extremity are reported in the Medical and Surgical History of the late Civil War.1 In a number of these cases the application of styptics contributed much to the fatal issue. To imperfect or inadequate ligation several of these deaths must also be directly charged. For example, four cases of ligation of the radial artery in gunshot wounds unattended by fracture terminated fatally:—“ It is no- ticeable that in these four fatal cases proximal ligatures only were applied.”2 All the cases in which the radial artery was secured with distal as well as with proximal ligatures ended in recovery. Of five patients in whom the ulnar artery was tied above and below the lesion, for hemorrhage in gunshot wounds, all recovered but one, and he died of pyaemia. In three instances where the ulnar artery was tied on the proximal side only of the lesion, “ two of the three patients died, one having undergone consecutive amputation; the third recovered, after consecutive ligation of the brachial.”3 The surgeon should never forget that, “ when the injury is inflicted on an artery near the extre- mity of a limb, it is indispensable to employ the double ligature, on account ■of the multiplied communications by anastomosing branches.” (Dupuytren.) Thus experience shows that hemorrhage from wounded arteries should not he treated by applying styptics when it is practicable to ligate them; and that a distal as well as a proximal ligature should he placed around the wounded vessel. Complete Division of Arteries by Gunshot Missiles.—Small arteries :are severed in almost every case of gunshot wound; yet this accident but seldom causes troublesome hemorrhage, or any other bad consequence. The bleeding from these small vessels, when they have been completely divided by gunshot projectiles, spontaneously ceases in a short time, as a rule, and does not recur. Large arteries, too, have sometimes been found severed in the wounds made by small-arms, but not often; much less often than they are found notched or perforated, that is, incompletely divided in such wounds. For the severance of arterial trunks, and of large arteries in general, by rifle or pistol balls, it is especially needful that the missile should be moving with very great velocity at the moment of impact. The same missile proceeding in •exactly the same track, but with less velocity, might only notch the artery ; moving with still less celerity, it might only bruise the arterial tunics; and, if moving more slowly still, it might leave no trace of arterial injury. The late Dr. Otis justly calls attention to this point. He remarks :4 “ The reader will observe here, as elsewhere, the very large proportion of gunshot wounds ■ot arteries in accidents, assassinations, and suicides, in comparison with those 1 Second Surg. Vol., p. 460. 8 Ibid., p. 452. 2 Ibid., pp. 452, 453. 4 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., P. 55.