650 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. a lobelia emetic. Sir Astley Cooper relates an. instance in which dislocation was caused by the thrusting a large apple into a child’s mouth. The muscles of mastication, like those elsewhere in the body, when brought into extreme contraction, sometimes become atfected by a spasmodic shortening or “ cramp” which the will is unable to control. The arrangement of muscles in the jaw is such that a powerful contraction at full extension, tends to force the heads of the bone forward, and may rupture the capsule. The internal pterygoid, inserted near the angle upon its deep surface, becomes a sort of fulcrum when the jaw is widely opened. The various depressor muscles at the symphysis act therefore upon the longer arm of a lever forcing the condyles with great power against the anterior wall of the capsules, and tending to break through them. The external pterygoids assist directly in pulling the condyles forward. All these muscles are atfected by the motor branch of the fifth pair, and when from reflex or other impression they act simultaneously, their power is very great. The condyles, which in the extended position are poised some- what upon the summits of the articular eminences, are, by the spasmodic action referred to, made to spring forward in front of these prominences, and are .immediately drawn upward under the zygomatic arches by the temporal and masseter muscles. The inter-articular cartilages still remain attached to the condyles in most cases. Symptoms.—When both condyles are dislocated, the jaw remains open so that the teeth cannot be brought together, though the lips sometimes can be closed, the jaw itself remaining nearly immovable; a vacuity may be felt at the usual location of the condyles near the ear. The amount of pain is variable. In case the dislocation is unilateral, the opening of the mouth is less con- spicuous, and the chin is thrown around, away from the dislocated side, causing the middle line of the incisor teeth of the lower jaw to be shifted consider- ably to the right or left of that of the upper incisors. A sort of partial dislocation of the jaw is occasionally met with in persons with unusually lax ligaments, the head of the bone having slipped forward upon, but not beyond, the articular eminence, so as not to come completely in front of the root of the zygoma. A slight movement will cause the bone to return with a snap to its natural seat. If the dislocation be not reduced, the movements of the jaw remain per- manently impaired. Yet the patient often acquires considerably more -nnwpv nf mnvino- the bone in its new and false position than one might have Dislocations of the jaw of long standing have in some instances been reduced. Stromeyer, after twenty-five days had elapsed, succeeded in accomplishing reduction. Donovan, after twenty-eight, and Pollock, after one hundred and twenty days, were similarly successful. Treatment.—Usually reduction is not very difficult, and it may safely be attempted even when the dislocation is of long standing. The necessary steps in the manipulation are, (1) To depress the condyles below the level of the articular eminences, and (2) To force them directly backward to their normal positions, just behind these eminences. To accomplish'reduction most readily, the patient must be placed in a chair, while the operator takes his stand directly in front, having his thumbs wrapped in napkins to protect them against the spasmodic closure of the patient’s jaws. The surgeon places one thumb upon each posterior molar tooth of the lower jaw, while with his fingers he is ready to press upon the anterior por-