NEURITIS. 583 between neuritis and neuralgia. But from the absence of atrophy, the inte- grity of the nerve cannot be necessarily inferred. This atrophy is attributed to the suppression of the trophic influence exercised by the spinal cord upon the nerves and muscles. Electrical exploration gives results which are often uncertain. In the early stage of acute neuritis, the electric contractility is often increased; it is null where the nerve fibres have undergone degeneration, and when there are paralysis and muscular atrophy, but if the degeneration is incomplete, the contractility is preserved. Generally, the gravity of the paralysis is in rela- tion to the diminution of the electric contractility, so that electrical explora- tion may be useful for prognosis. (3) Neuritis of Mixed Nerves.—The symptoms of neuritis of the sensory and of the motor nerves, may be combined when a mixed nerve is affected. But it must be remarked, that generally in inflammation of a mixed nerve, the disturbances of sensibility predominate, at least at the beginning. It is also to be remembered, that the symptoms which are observed, rarely remain limited to the territory of the inflamed nerve. Aside of the phenomena which may be directly referred to inflammation of a nerve, it is convenient to place those which are due to extension of the neuritis towards the spinal cord—to reflex excitation, which it is that causes convulsions and contractions; thus, a kind of winter’s cramp has been seen to result from a neuritis of the radial nerve (Meyer); and general convulsions of various forms have been attributed to an analogous process. Neuritis may be followed by the development of numerous trophic disturb- ances ; but they are identical with those which we have already described as resulting from wounds of nerves; whether the neuritis is spontaneous or traumatic, the cutaneous, muscular, articular, and other alterations present the same characters, and depend upon the same pathological process. Among the trophic disturbances, those must be distinguished which are due to nerve irritation (vesicles, herpes zoster, pemphigoid and eczematous eruptions, ulcerations, etc.), and those which are due to want of action, to nerve atrophy (glossy skin, ulcerations, alterations of the hair, nails, etc.). Diagnosis of Neuritis.—The diagnosis of neuritis is often difficult, but nevertheless acute neuritis may be recognized, if there are observed sponta- neous pain, sharp and continuous, pain provoked by pressure over a long por- tion of the course of the nerve, palsies, and precocious muscular atrophy. When there is a subacute or chronic neuritis, it is liable to be confounded with neuralgia, and all the more because the boundary between the two affections is not well marked; for the means of distinguishing them, the reader is referred to the section on neuralgia. Neuritis may be distinguished from muscular rheumatism by the fact that, in the latter, pressure upon the muscles is painful throughout their whole extent. Prognosis.—The prognosis of neuritis should be always guarded, both on account of the duration of the disease, which may be long, and on account of the palsies and muscular atrophies which are its consequence, and which are persistent and difficult to cure. It must be added that the lesion may extend towards the nerve centres. According to Lereboullet, traumatic neu- ritis is, in this respect, less grave and less lasting than spontaneous or rheu- matic neuritis. Treatment of Neuritis.—Many of the indications which were given in con- sidering the treatment of wounds of nerves, are applicable to neuritis in general. In acute neuritis, absolute rest of the limb should be directed, with