418 ANEURISM. and thus is also a haemostatic in post-partum hemorrhage. Hence we may conclude that ergot acts on organic muscular fibres, causing their contraction ; it was these considerations that induced me to employ the injection of ergot in a case of aneurism.”1 The material used was the aqueous extract of Bon- jean, thus diluted:— Extract of ergot, 2-| parts. Rectified spirit, Glycerine, of each, 7 parts. He began with 0.03 gramme,2 and from the 6th of January to the 17th of February, about two grammes of ergotine were injected, in doses varying from 0.03 to 0.18 gramme, at intervals, as a rule, of three days. An ordinary hypo- dermic syringe was employed, and the fluid was placed under the skin cover- ing the aneurism. In the first case, one of subclavian aneurism, there was much improvement, considerable diminution both in size and pulsation having occurred.3 Pain, too, almost entirely disappeared, so that, even after the first injection, the patient, who had been very sleepless, and who thought that the medicine was a narcotic, expressed himself as greatly pleased at having passed a quiet night. Langenbeck’s second case was one of aneurism of the radial, as large as a hazel-nut, in which, after a single injection of ergot, the tumor disappeared! In 1871, Dutoit, of Berne, published a successful case of combined pressure and ergotine injection, in subclavian aneurism, using fifteen injections in thirty- seven days, commencing with half a grain, and ending with three grains.4 5 Another case is recorded by Mr. Carlin.6 Thus, although there are to be found scattered in journals and reports a great many instances of ergotine injection, unproductive of any benefit, yet we have clear evidence of its occasional advantage. Certain cases of aneu- rism, as, for iustance, some of the subclavian, especially on the left side, are in such condition and so placed that any more active, direct treatment is inap- plicable, or fraught with considerable danger, while medicine and rest pro- duce no salutary effect. Under such circumstances, the surgeon is glad of any procedure which seems to afford some chance5 however remote, of benefit. The ergotine injection must thus take its place among the resources of surgery, but if any other means can be employed, too much time must not be wasted upon such treatment.6 It is to be remarked that in all the successful cases, more especially in those of Langenbeck, very considerable benefit followed the first injection; hence we may conclude that, unless such advantage be quickly manifested, we may, after two or three repetitions, discontinue the ' plan as useless. The formula, as used in England, may be thus given:— Extract of spurred rye, 1 part. Rectified spirit, Glycerine, of each, 1^ parts. 1 Berliner klinisclie Wochenschrift, 1869, No. 12. 2 1 gramme is equal to 15.432 grains, so that, the dose of the extract may vary from gr. ss. to 3 I have not heen able to find any further report, and know not if the man entirely recovered. 4 Archiv fur klinische Chirurgie, Bd. xii. S. 1070 ; this case is again referred to in connection with subclavian aneurism. Dutoit’s solution was made thus : Bonjean’s watery extract of ergot, 3i ; Spirit, glycerine, of each, 3bj. Langenbeck attributes the absence of symptoms of poison- ing to the fact that the aqueous solution contains none of the ethereal oil resident in spurred rye. The United States Dispensatory would, in its fluid extract of ergot, have no such ingredients ; that of the British Pharmacopoeia, being made with ether, would include it; yet both I and others have used our English preparation without such evils as vertigo and sickness. 5 Lancet, November 30, 1878. 6 A case is related in the Memorabilia, No. 10, 1874, in which after a long time had been em- ployed in the use of ergotine injections for femoral aneurism, they proved useless ; a few hours digital compression cured the disease.