SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM 421 traded upwards and forwards, and certainly would avoid those in which it extended towards the lung. Direct pressure should very rarely, if ever, be used upon the external protrusion of an intrathoracic aneurism, because it can do no good in promoting cure, but chiefly because that portion of the sac, yielding to each pulsation, serves as a sort of spring, and thus relieves internal parts from suffering the full force of the blood-wave. When, in suitable cases, direct pressure is used, its action on the skin must be sedulously watched, and any sign of inflammation or any appearance of blood must warn the surgeon at once to discontinue its employment. Suppu- ration between the skin and the sac, ulceration on the surface, and, above all, a slough over the aneurism, would, in all probability, prove fatal, and would at the least be dangerous and embarrassing complications. When flexion, indirect pressure, or ligature, having at first appeared suc- cessful by cessation of pulsation, seems about to fail by recurrence of the pulse, direct or general pressure is a very valuable resource, and no doubt many relapses have by such means been prevented. A bandage should be firmly, but not tightly, applied from the extremity to some distance above the tumor, between which and the roller, a piece of sponge, a curled horsehair pad, a half-empty India-rubber ball, or some other elastic cushion can be interposed: the toes or fingers, as the case may be, must be examined from time to time, and the absence of commencing gangrene verified. Indirect Compression.—Indirect compression is a comparatively modern development of surgery, for although in earlier times the direct pressure just described was supplemented by the addition of a hard pad beneath the band- age, over the artery, it is clear that no definite attempt had ever been made to cure an aneurism by pressure—not on the tumor itself, but on the vessel some distance above—until Hunter had shown that a check to circulation at such a place would obliterate the cavity of the sac.1 Pressure then began to be systematically employed, at first, as ancillary to ligature. In the first quarter of the present century many attempts were made to cure aneurisms by this method alone; but they very generally failed, not as much because the instruments were imperfect, as because such pressure was used that it either could not be tolerated or produced eschars. The first successes belong to Dupuytren, Boyer, and Dubois. The years 1820 or 1824 (we need not follow controversies as to priority), are the time when indirect com- pression began, through the labors of Dublin surgeons, to take a fixed place in the resources of surgery ; the names of Todd, M’Coy, Cusack, Crampton, and Bellingham are more especially connected with the various instruments, arrangements, and general regulations, which have caused this method to be other than merely a resource when nothing else could be done. Indirect pressure is applicable to most external and to some internal aneu- risms ; it may be applied by means of instruments, or by the fingers of a staff of assistants. These methods are termed respectively, instrumental and digital, and both may be either proximal or distal: the latter, however, should only he used when the former is anatomically impossible; it has furnished very few encouraging results. Both instrumental and digital, proximal pressure may be employed in one of two ways: the first, named “ gradual,” is intended to produce a partial occlusion of the vessel, permitting a slender stream of blood to percolate the sac, and thus, by a process somewhat analogous to that which external to the 1 Broca labors hard to show that the primary idea of indirect compression is French. Boyer and Dubois had the first successes in 1810. Ford’s and Blizzard’s unsuccessful attempts were in 1788 and 1803 respectively. Freer’s experiments, on which much excellent work was founded, were published in 1807.