INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 730 Excision of the Elbow for Gunshot Wounds. Authorities. Cases. Med. and Surg. Hist. War of Rebellion. Primary . . 318 “ “ “ “ Intermediary . 196 “ “ “ “ Intermed. and second. 250 “ “ “ “ Purely secondary 54 Andrews and Woodworth, Surg. of Sherman’s Campaigns . 7 Chisolm, Confederate Army .... Primary 25 “ “ “ Secondary 36 Warren, “ “ . . . . Primary 1 “ “ “ . Secondary 3 Esmarch, quoted in Grant’s Surgery, p. 675 . Primary 11 “ “ “ “ . . Secondary 29 Deutsche Zeitschrift. f. Chir. Bd. 1 und 2, f Primary 12 Franco-German War . . . \ Secondary 64 Herrgott, Siege of Strasbourg .... Primary 4 “ “ “ . . . • Secondary 7 Culbertson, op. cit., p. 495 592 Totals . . 1609 In these tables, excision of the elbow is shown to he safer than amputation of the arm, for gunshot wounds. Conservative treatment shows even better results, on paper; but when we reflect that the slighter wounds (many of them merely buckshot wounds) were selected for conservative treatment, the appa- rent superiority of conservatism disappears, except for selected cases. Extrac- tion of the loose fragments of bone, without excision, has been practised in a few instances with very favorable results; but there are no copious statistics which can be said to determine the value of the operation. At present, it is a matter for the individual judgment of surgeons. As the tables establish beyond dispute that resection of the elbow, in proper cases, is as safe or safer than amputation of the arm, for gunshot fractures of the joint, and since by resection we save that most important member, the hand, we cannot doubt a moment about our duty, when the condition of parts admits of choice. The remarkable confusion and contradiction of opinion among surgical writers, on this point, may be seen from the following abstract:— Chenu’s statistics of the French army showed such a terrible mortality from this resection that Sedillot declared that it ought to be rejected from military practice. On the other hand, the German surgeons in the Schleswig-Holstein war claimed a brilliant success with it. Hugelshofer,1 after condemning partial resections as danger- ous, asserts that complete resection is safer than amputation above the elbow, and remarks, “be the functional results good or bad, as you will, the preservation of a cer- tain number of human lives which would have fallen a sacrifice to amputation of the arm, or to conservative treatment, must give the operation the first place in treatment of wounds of the elbow-joint.” Heyfelder says that the results of resection of the elbow are brilliant, and he gives statistics2 to show that partial resections are rather more dangerous than complete ones. Stromeyer recommends the operation. Demme and Salzmann say that resection of the elbow for gunshot wounds is three times as safe as conservative treatment. They put the mortality without operation at over sixty per cent. In America, Ashhurst, Hamilton, and both the elder and the younger Gross approve the operation. Hannover3 opposes the operation bitterly, declaring that of sixteen army cases, only one terminated in anchylosis, and that when anchylosis fails, the limb is useless, and burdensome to such an extent that the soldier at last desires it amputated. 1 Deutche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Bd. Ill, S. 8. * Lehrbuch der Resectionen, S. 246. 3 Deutsche Zeitschrift, Band 111, S. 7.