ANEURISM OF ARCH OF AORTA. 525 combinations of symptoms, which we may not as yet thoroughly understand, will prove to future investigators of much significance. Especially must this be the case in the early phases of the disease; the later stages, unless a history of the commencing phenomena furnish a clue, may still be undecipherable. These points being premised, we may go on to consider the symptoms produced by aneurism of the aortic arch generally, and at first without reference to the order of their appearance. (1) Tumor, pulsation, dulness, and certain sounds, depend upon the growth of an aneurismal sac from the artery, extending towards the surface, and dis- placing resonant lung by non-resonant blood (fluid or solidified). When the aneurism comes within a certain distance of the surface, the chest-wall pro- trudes, at first by mere bulging, but afterwards by a conical tumor, which visibly and sensibly pulsates. Around the point of strongest pulsation, a space of gradually diminishing impulse is traceable; so, too, dulness is in the middle of the space absolute, further out relative only, diminishing -more dnd more until it merges into resonance; the dull area is usually continuous at one of its margins with cardiac dulness. Over the pulsatile enlargement, the heart sounds are heard with abnormal loudness, but the second sound is much more accentuated than the first; it is sometimes a dull, heavy thud, and in other cases a sharp, metallic ring, but it is always loud in proportion to the first sound, and even louder than over the heart itself. Bruits have hardly been mentioned hitherto, because their presence or absence is so variable; they are of ditferent qualities and degrees, from a mere “ coo” to a harsh, saw-like noise. Many cases run their whole course without any such abnormal sound; others are accompanied throughout by bruits; while in still a third series, the murmur—blowing or rasping—may be heard, either at the beginning or end of the case, while the intermediate portion of its course is marked by silence. These sounds, then, when present, are valuable symptoms, but their absence does not negative the existence of aneurism. We may group this whole range of phenomena under the term “tumor symptoms.” (2) Changes of the pulse are important, and are of different sorts. An artery may be partially obstructed by an aneurism springing from another vessel, curling over and pressing on its trunk; or, indeed, by a non-aneurismal tumor. The ambiguity which would arise from such a condition must be cleared away by examination of other symptoms. The direct influence of an aneurism on the pulse of the vessel from which it springs, is a reduction of the beat of the vessel below the tumor; it does not necessarily follow, though it is usually the case, that less blood finds its way along the tube, but it does so in a more even manner. A familiar, though not perfectly accurate, simile may be taken from the mechanism of a fire-engine (the heart), which delivers water along the hose (artery) in an even stream, al- though its force is imparted by alternate strokes of the pump. This is effected by letting the water first pass into a cavity—kettle I believe it is called—from which the hose issues. Now, the kettle contains at the top a little air, whose elasticity, acting as a spring, diminishes, if it does not quite eliminate the intermittent or pulsatile quality of the current. The aneurism has in it no air, but the widening of the channel at a point between the heart and the artery examined [together with the elasticity of the sac-wall] is sufficient to moderate, though it does not altogether suppress, the pulsatile character of the stream. Thus, the sphygmographic trace shows a sloping and low upstroke, and an absence of tidal and dicrotic waves, so that, for instance, in an aneurism of the innominate, or of either subclavian, the line may represent a mere succession of even and shallow undulations. This is represented to the finger by a weak, full, soft pulse—indicating an artery which throbs slightly, never empties