INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 140 Treatment of Contused Wounds of Arteries.—Contused wounds of arte- ries may be complicated by hemorrhage, the presence of foreign bodies, inflanp mation, and gangrene. When, from the crushing of arteries by blows, extravasa- tion of blood occurs in large quantity, it may be necessary to ligate the injured vessels in order to suppress the bleeding. If a considerable artery be opened, it must be tied ; compression would only increase the irritation already exist- ing. For the treatment of false primitive or consecutive aneurisms arising from this cause, consult the section'on Traumatic Aneurism. When the con- tusion is very severe, and the quantity of extravasated blood very great, and when it collects in a mass in the crushed connective tissue and forms a so-called heematoma, the part is commonly black, which might lead us to fear gangrene; but if this blackness disappear on pressure, and if it be soft, and unattended with pain or great swelling, and if the affected parts be still warm, we may conclude that life still exists in them, and that resolution may take place, notwithstanding the collection of blood in the connective tissue. There are many examples of sanguineous tumors (hsematomata) which have terminated by resolution, after a greater or less time ; but it sometimes happens that all of the effused blood cannot be taken up by the absorbents or the veins, and then We are compelled to discharge it by an incision ; but such openings are not to be made until we have waited long enough to know that resolution is impossible. To hasten the disappearance of hsematomata, the application of lead-water generally proves useful; and if much pain be present, the applica- tion of lead and opium wash in a warm or tepid state usually brings speedy relief. Shot-wounds involving the tracks of large bloodvessels must always be the subjects of careful scrutiny and much anxiety on the part of intelligent sur- geons, although there may be no bleeding at first. If any sign of considerable injury to the artery itself be discovered on exploring the wound with a finger, if the pulsations be found much weakened in the trunk or branches of the injured vessel below the wound after full reaction, the artery should at once be secured by ligatures applied above and below the bruised part; or, per- haps, the limb should be amputated primarily ; otherwise secondary hemor- rhage or gangrene is sure to follow, as the cases related above fully prove. But, of course, a bruise on a small spot or portion of an artery may not always diminish the force of the circulation before sloughing ; and, in very severe con- tusions, the canal of the vessel may be closed before sloughing has time to occur. We must not put too much confidence in any one symptom, therefore, but provide, in all suspicious cases, for the contingencies mentioned above. If it be deemed expedient to treat the case without primary ligation or amputation, we should strive to lessen the risks by abating the inflammation of the bruised part of the artery, but especially that which is ulcerative or phagedenic in character. The wounded part should be kept at perfect rest. The surroundings of the patient should all be of the most wholesome character. The practice of applying poultices with a view to favor the occurrence of suppurative inflammation, is bad in such cases, because it insures suppuration throughout the whole extent of the wound. Carbolated water-dressings. (1 to 200) will allow the necessary detachment of the disorganized tissues just as well as poultices, without inducing suppuration in the parts which are disposed to undergo adhesion. Indeed, it is possible for the reparation of the parts lost by the severity of contusion to be effected under such a dressing without the occurrence of suppuration or granulation. The retention of secretions in the wound must be avoided by the thorough use of Chassaig- nac’s drainage tube. The utmost cleanliness should be observed, and all the dressings should be of an antiseptic nature. Meanwhile, we should constantly be on the lookout for secondary hemor-