704 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. considerable immobility. No difficulty is experienced in determining the nature of the injury upon inspection and palpation. Complete lateral dislocations at the knee are of very rare occurrence. When from extraordinary violence they do occur, the Fig. 577. extreme tension frequently causes the head of the bone to rend its way through the skin, causing a compound dislocation. Treatment.—Incomplete lateral dislocations may be reduced by laying the patient upon his side, placing a firm cushion or pad beneath the projecting bone, and pressing the other bone down to its proper position. This pad may be put under either the upper or the lower bone. If any difficulty be experienced in this method, extension may be employed in addition to compression, and the replacement facilitated by giv- ing to the two bones a rocking motion upon each other. Oblique dislocations of the knee are said to occur, in which the head of the tibia takes a direction back- ward as well as outward. These cases are rarely met with. They are to be treated upon the principles al- ready laid down. Compound Dislocation of the Knee-Joint.—This is an accident of not very rare occurrence, and of very grave importance. It has been the opinion of sur- geons hitherto, owing to the very great fatality caused by the violent suppurative inflammation which is almost^ sure to follow conservative treatment, that primary amputation, or excision, is the obvious indi- cation. In the case of a laboring man, or of any per- son unable to give up his employment a long time, and to obtain careful attention during a tedious con- finement of months’ duration, amputation has seemed to offer the best, safest, and quickest prospect of re- covery, and, for practical purposes, a limb nearly as useful as any that could be obtained otherwise. Persons who could obtain careful attention in good surroundings, who pre- ferred the natural, though mutilated, limb to any artificial appliance, and who were also willing for the sake of this to undergo a somewhat greater risk of life, could have the knee-joint exsected, and recover ultimately with a mo- tionless knee, but with the natural leg in place. The one other course—con- servatism without excision—was under old methods so uniformly the cause of death from pyaemia and exhaustion, that it found no favor with surgical writers. This opinion has not as yet been controverted, nor can it successfully be overturned on the basis of our present experience, for want of new statistics ; but it nevertheless may be true that the introduction of the antiseptic method offers a means of saving the joint, and even of restoring its function, in some cases, with far less serious risk to life than any previous plan of treat- ment. We cannot, from the meagre statistics which we now possess, make a thoroughly scientific induction as to the prospects of this method of treat- ment without operation; but enough is known to render it perfectly justifi- able for the surgeon to make an attempt to save the limb.