SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. 47 He must continue to ponder in this way on the recorded examples of hemor- rhage, until he thoroughly familiarizes himself beforehand with exactly what should be done in every class of cases and in every region of the body, together with all the exceptional occurrences. The late and highly-esteemed Dr. Otis justly observed: “ It is hardly possible to unduly multiply illustrations of the management of wounded bloodvessels ;’n and, no doubt, had the above- mentioned use of such illustrations in view when he penned the words. In brief, then, it is by thorough special training, and by patiently fortifying himself from the experience of past generations, that the surgeon acquires the boldness and positiveness, the promptness and dexterity, which are de- manded in the treatment of wounded bloodvessels. But, if he have done otherwise, the anxiety and embarrassment which he manifests in the presence of hemorrhage will show how insufficient on this point his surgical knowledge and ability really are. Thus, it appears that the injuries of bloodvessels and their consequences are subjects of very great importance to both patients and surgeons, and that it is scarcely possible to make any discussion of them too thorough or elaborate. Nomenclature op Hemorrhage.—Surgical hemorrhages are called external or internal, according to the situation or direction of the flow of blood in respect to the body at large, whether it be without or within the same; but they are mostly external. Internal extravasations of blood, however, are, upon the whole, more dangerous than those which are external. Surgical hemorrhages are said to be pelvic, abdominal, thoracic, auxiliary, cervical, brachial, femoral, etc., according to the region of the body in which they occur. Surgical hemorrhages are also described under the names of urethral, renal, epiploic, gastric, hepatic,pulmonary, etc., according to the organ that is wounded and bleeding. Surgical hemorrhages finally are denominated, (1) arterial, (2) venous, and (3) capillary, according to the system of vessels from which the bleeding proceeds ; and each of these varieties has much practical importance. (1) Arterial Hemorrhage.—An arterial hemorrhage, the blood usually has a bright-red or scarlet color, and flows in a jerking stream, or per saltum ; and the jets are synchronous with pulsations of the arteries themselves. Between the jets, however, the flow does not entirely cease; the stream is in reality a continuous one, whose volume is swollen by each arterial pulsation. This fact I have often noted in the arteries of the scalp, face, and extremities, when they were cut in wounds of these parts having such extent and form as to expose the open mouths to view ; in wounds caused by accidents, and by surgical operations. The blood issues in jets, for the most part, from the proximal orifice only. The blood which escapes from the distal orifice is generally dark-colored, and flows in an evqn stream, like that which flows from wounded veins. But in some parts of the body, where the terminal branches of the arteries inosculate with exceptional freedom, the blood may issue in jets from the distal as well as from the proximal end of a divided artery; this occurrence I have often witnessed in wounds of the scalp and face, especially in those seated near the median line; I have also met with it in wounds involving the plantar and palmar arches, respectively, and in wounds of the forearm. When the blood escapes from the distal orifice in jets, it likewise retains the bright-red or arterial hue. When from any cause a vigorous hemorrhage continues, the jets soon become less strongly marked, Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Volume, p. 324.