665 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. six months after the injury. Subcutaneous division of portions of the resist- ing ligaments will sometimes greatly assist these efforts. This is justified when accompanied by full antiseptic precautions. It is to be remembered that there is great danger of rupturing the axillary vessels by making too violent extension in an old luxation at the shoulder. More than one fatal ter- mination has followed this accident, where force has been incautiously used about the axilla in violent efforts at replacement. Downward Dislocation of the Humerus.—Downward or subglenoid luxa- tion, said by some to be the most common of all dislocations, is found by Hamilton to be the second in order of frequency. It consists of a downward and inward displacement of the head of the humerus into the axilla. Causes.—Aside from direct blows, which not rarely produce dislocations downward of the humerus, falls upon the hand or elbow are found to be the chief causes. Any sudden raising of the arm to or above a horizontal posi- tion, may cause the bone to break through its capsule at its thin, inner and lower surface, and to slip downward into the axilla. This has been known to occur by the slipping of a crutch. I found it to have been produced, in one instance, by the act of striking out in swimming. The patient, a rather corpulent but not muscular man, felt a sudden pain and helplessness at the moment of throwing his arms forward to make a stroke, and had to he lifted from the swimming-bath by the assistants. Symptoms.—Pain is usually rather severe, and quite often numbness, and a prickling or tingling sensation, are felt in the hand and arm. Very commonly the axillary vessels are so compressed that the radial pulse is imperceptible. The usual roundness of the shoulder is lost, now that the head of the bone has left its socket, and the part -has a flattened and angular appearance from the outward jutting of the acromion process, while below this there can be felt, if not seen, a depression or vacancy as compared with the opposite side. More accurately to test the question as to whether the head has or has not left its socket, a rule may be laid along the outer aspect of the arm. This straight edge, in the normal condition of parts, stands off more than half an inch from the tip of the acromion. When, on the contrary, it rests upon this point with the arm hanging near the side, the sign may be taken as in- fallible that the head of the bone has left its true position, either by disloca- tion or by fracture of the scapular neck or glenoid cavity. (See Fig. 556.) In corpulent persons, the vacancy below the acromion is palpable rather than visible; but I have never yet met with a case in which this sign alone would not have been sufficient to settle the diagnosis. A number of other symptoms are customarily observed: The elbow, instead of hanging close to the side, is carried more or less outward, on account of the throwing inward of the opposite end of the humerus. The head itself can be felt in the lower and anterior axillary border, more or less tightly held against the chest-wall by the tension of the pectoralis major and latissnms dorsi. It may be separated one or two inches from the coracoid process. The test of placing the hand of the dislo- cated arm upon the opposite shoulder is here applicable, as in all dislocations of the humerus. The elbow in this position cannot be made to come in contact with the body. Anterior Dislocations of the Humerus.—These occur in two positions, giving rise to the subcoracoid and the subclavicular varieties of forward dislo- cation. In subcoracoid dislocation, the head of the humerus rests upon the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula and border of the glenoid cavity, below the