470 ANEURISM. Of 17 cases of secondary hemorrhage— Without further deligation ...... 7 died. After ligature of bleeding ends in wound . . . . 1 “ After ligature of external iliac . . . . . 3 “ After ligature of common iliac . . . . . 1 “ Without further deligation ...... 2 recovered. After ligature of external iliac . . . 3 “ I can only find since 1872, at which date Dr. Fischer concludes his tables, one case in which the common femoral artery was tied. This occurred in 1879. The ligature used was silk, secondary hemorrhage came on, the exter- nal iliac was tied, and the patient survived. Thus out of 31 cases, bleeding occurred in 18, of which 12 died. To place the matter in percentages, the secondary hemorrhages are 58 per cent., and the deaths on the whole series 51.6 per cent. The hospital experience in this operation is small—indeed, it is repudiated by almost all metropolitan surgeons—so that I find but two cases in the last ten years; both patients died of secondary hemorrhage, one after fresh deli- gation, the other with pyaemia.1 The more usual operation for aneurism of the thigh too high for treatment by occlusion of the superficial femoral, is deligation of the external iliac artery. Dr. Rabe’s table gives of such operations 111, of which 26, a little over 23 per cent., proved fatal. My own collection taken from where Rabe leaves off, gives 30 cases, whereof 5 were followed by death, viz., 16.6 per cent., or, taking the whole range since the first operation to 1880, 141 published cases with 31 deaths, an average of very nearly 22 per cent. But these gross numbers require further examination. Of the 141 cases, hemorrhage occurred in 24; of these 9 recovered, 15 died. Gangrene was observed in 11 (in one of very slight extent); of these 6 died, 5 recovered. Peritonitis occurred in 4, of which 1 died. If we put together the causes of the 31 deaths, we find— Of hemorrhage . . . . . . .15 Of gangrene ........ 6 Of peritonitis ........ 2 Of erysipelas 1 Of septicaemia 1 Of exhaustion ........ 1 Of retroperitoneal suppuration . . . . .2 Of shock and unknown causes . . . . .3 The last five headings may be left without further comment. The first three are more important for consideration; I shall not confine my remarks to the fatal cases, for it is desirable also to learn the frequency of unfortunate complications. Five patients were attacked with peritonitis, of whom oidy 2 died. It is especially worthy of remark that although the peritoneum was confessedly wounded in seven cases, inflammation ensued in only one instance, and in that the patient recovered.2 Gangrene occurred 9 times; 6 of the patients thus affected died—one after amputation—and 3 recovered, namely, 1 in whom the sphacelus had been very limited, and 2 after amputation. 1 The operation may have been performed more frequently than is said in the text, hut it is impossible to found assertions on such phrases as “in a case of femoral aneurism the femoral artery was tied.” If in the report of a certain large hospital we should accept the italicized words as meaning the common femoral, the number of cases would be six instead of two.” 2 In one case the small intestines and peritoneum protruded, and had to be returned and kept back during the rest of the operation ; no peritonitis followed.