456 ANEURISM. and projecting in the same direction. The disease is generally amenable to indirect pressure on the femoral, because the chief artery having a little above divided into three main branches, the current in the sac can hardly be powerful. Nevertheless, the cure does not appear to be rapid. It is pro- bable that the Esmarch bandage would have considerable effect; and since, as above explained, the circulation in a sac supplied by a vessel of the size of the posterior tibial, could hardly he very powerful, it would scarcely he necessary to draw the cord very tight. Should these means fail, and should either surgeon or patient desire to avoid the use of the knife, injection with perchloride of iron might be employed; otherwise, unless the sac be placed too high in the limb, deligation of the affected artery may be practised; or, if it be too high, deligation of the femoral, either in Hunter’s canal or in Scarpa’s space. Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—Two methods of doing this have been devised: The one—commonly called the “old method”—by an incision near the posterior edge of the tibia; the other, by along wound in the middle of the calf, through the gastrocnemius and soleus. This last is called Guthrie’s method, he having devised it because he had found some difficulty in the other mode.1 I presume that in the instance or instances in which Guthrie experienced trouble, some severe spasm of the muscles, perhaps some anatomical abnormity, produced difficulty; for the fact is, that, in all the lower three-fourths of the leg, deligation of the posterior tibial artery through an incision behind the tibia is very easy, and few operations less deserve Guthrie’s epithets—difficult, tedious, bloody, and dangerous2—while to the method which he substituted, such terms might be not unjustly applied. Indeed, Arnott’s patient bled freely, and had much cramp and pain.3 In two in- stances I have practised the incision here recommended, in order to stretch the posterior tibial nerve for certain painful conditions of the foot. In both I was able to feel, and could readily have passed a needle around, the artery. Barely a drop of blood was lost throughout the one case; in the other I felt what appeared to be a tumor of the nerve, and in using the handle of the scalpel to isolate that cord more completely, a sudden spurt of arterial blood showed that the vessel had been torn. I had no difficulty in passing beneath it an aneurism needle, doubly armed, and in tying the artery above and below the little rent. Guthrie’s operation may be thus described : An incision, six or more inches long, is to be made in the middle of the calf, and the junction of the lateral halves of the gastrocnemius exposed; the separation of these brings the soleus into view. This muscle is also to be severed in the same direction, the ope- rator assuring himself that the whole thickness is divided by noting the easily recognized surface of the deep fascia. The wound through skin and both muscles, held agape with broad retractors, is moved slightly towards the inner side until the whiteness of the nerve is seen through the fibrous tissue, or until its round cord can be felt, with perhaps the pulsation of the vessel beneath it; along this line the deep fascia is slit up, when, the nerve being drawn outward, the artery, with its veins, comes into view. Some diffi- culty, owing to the depth of the wound, will, in large limbed persons, be experienced in passing the ligature. Division of the muscular structures causes the incision to constantly fill with blood, increasing the difficulty of the operation, which will be still further enhanced if the ligation has been undertaken to secure a severed 1 Guthrie never practised this mode. Arnott did so, and, to judge from his description, did not escape tribulation. (Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxix. p. 43.) 2 Wounds and Injuries of Arteries, p. 38. * Loc. cit.