DELIGATION OE ARTERIES. 307 in length, along the line indicated in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 484), divid- ing the skin only. Incise the fascia on a director. Then the axillary vein is to be pushed backward with the end of the director, and next the brachial plexus of nerves. The median nerve is now recog- nized, and, being drawn forward, while the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves are pushed backward, the artery is ex- posed. Cautiously separate the artery from the vein, which is pushed backward, and the nerves that surround it. Pass the needle from behind forward. The axillary artery was ligatured, for the first time, on January 17, 1815, by Mr. R. Chamberlaine, of Kingston, Jamaica, for an aneurism of the left axilla, occasioned by a wound with a cutlass, received October 5,1814. The operation proved successful. Ligation op the Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery passes down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the.latissimus dorsi to a point about an inch below the bend at the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the axilla to the middle of the bend at the elbow. Operation in the Upper Third of the Arm.—Having placed the patient on his back, with the arm extended and rotated outward, make an incision, two inches in length, along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis. The artery is readily exposed. It lies between and behind the median and ulnar nerves, the former to the outer and the latter to the inner side. It has two venae comites. Operation in the Middle Third.—The brachial artery in the middle of the arm descends on the inner side, first of the coraco-brachialis, and afterward of the biceps. It is covered by the integuments and fascia, and is slightly over- lapped by the biceps. The internal cutaneous nerve lies superficial to the artery. The median nerve obliquely crosses it. The ulnar nerve is internal to it. The arm being extended at right angles to the trunk, and held supine, the course of the artery may be ascertained by its pulsations; by the internal margin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis ; by the median nerve; and by the line above described. The steps of the operation are as follows: (1) The cutaneous incision is 4 centimetres (about 1J inches) in length along the inner border of the biceps. (2) The biceps is drawn outward with a retractor. The median nerve is seen lying immediately upon the artery. (3) The median nerve is detached from the sheath and drawn outward by a strabismus hook (Fig. 485); the sheath of the artery is then opened ; it lies between two veins (venae comites). The arm is now flexed, the artery isolated, and the ligature passed from without inward. Sometimes the brachial artery divides into the ulnar and radial arteries in the upper third of the arm; the radial, in that case, commonly runs more superficially and externally (upon the biceps), while the ulnar appears conspicuously small (Esmarch). Operation at the Elbow.—The brachial artery, at the elbow, lies in the cen- tre of a triangular space, formed externally by the supinator longus, and in- ternally by the pronator radii teres. (1) The cutaneous incision is made 4 Fig. 484.