WOUNDS OF VEINS. 213 During the late civil war, in a case of secondary hemorrhage to the amount of twenty ounces, from a gunshot wound of the armpit, the axillary artery was ligated above and below the wound ; and the axillary vein, being injured, was also tied. The bleeding did not recur, but death ensued on the thirteenth day after the operation, apparently from anaemic exhaustion. Autopsy—No evidence of phlebitis or pyaemia was found.1 In another case of secondary hemorrhage, the basilic vein, being open, was tied as well as the brachial artery, above and below the wound. This man recovered.2 I have in one case, however, where the femoral artery and vein were both opened in a gunshot wound, seen gangrene ensue after the simultaneous ligation of these vessels:— Private D. R., “ K,” 7th Indiana, aged 20; wounded November 30, 1863 ; a con- oidal bullet passed from behind directly through the left thigh, dividing both femoral artery and vein, and escaping from Scarpa’s space; admitted to hospital, Washington, December 6 ; operated on December 9, by Dr. Wm. Thomson, because the aneurismal condition was increasing. He laid the tumor freely open, and found the vessels severed just below the origin of the profunda. He tied each end of both artery and vein. Mortification of the limb followed, and death ensued on the 13th. I saw this case in consultation. Amputation was then out of the question. The man was very pale. His limb was already much swollen and oedematous, looking not unlike the limb in phlegmasia alba dolens. The aneurismal swelling was likely soon to burst. His general condition was failing. The operation was, therefore, one of expediency. In this case, the gunshot wound, the hemorrhagic infiltration, and the inflammatory swelling of the thigh, made the establishment of a collateral circulation much more difficult after the operation, which was performed on the ninth day, than it would have been had the operation been performed without any delay; and it is quite possible that, had the deli- gation of both artery and vein been practised at the outset, and before the advent of any swelling, the occurrence of gangrene would have altogether been avoided. At any rate, it is scarcely fair to infer that a primary ligation of the severed vessels would neces- sarily have been followed by gangrene. When the femoral vein is wounded, but especially in the upper part of its course, it may be very difficult, or even impossible, to stay the bleeding, un- less the femoral artery is ligatured. This fact is well shown by Oettingen’s case:— During the removal of a tumor situated in the fossa ovalis, he wounded the femoral vein, and therefore tied both ends of it. Notwithstanding this double ligation, the hemorrhage continued, and the leg became cyanotic. In order to arrest the venous hemorrhage, and to correct the inequality between the afflux and reflux of blood, he tied the common femoral artery. The hemorrhage ceased and the cyanosis disappeared. Gangrene did not ensue. In a case recorded by Rose, there was a punctured wound of the femoral artery and vein, in a butcher, aged 25. Both vessels were ligated in loco, at their proximal and distal ends; the vein had been split by the knife, “ directly under Poupart’s ligament,” the artery a little lower, “ nearly under Poupart’s ligament.” The patient completely recovered, without even oedema of the limb appearing during the after-treatment. Tillmanns ligated the common femoral artery below Poupart’s ligament for profuse hemorrhage from numerous large veins, after the extirpation of a vascular sarcoma of the thigh, the size of a man’s head. The hemorrhage was promptly arrested and the patient recovered.3 Other examples of similar import might be adduced. Beyond doubt, then, it is often, perhaps generally, a good haemostatic measure in wounds involv- ing the femoral or axillary veins, to ligate the accompanying artery as well as the vein itself.4 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surgical Vol., p. 555. 2 Ibid., p. 446. 3 International Journal of Medicine and Surgery, vol. i. pp. 224-227. 4 When hemorrhage from the common femoral vein makes deligation of that vessel necessary in order to stop the bleeding, the common femoral artery should also be ligatured in most cases, in order to equalize the circulation in the limb, as recommended by Langenbeck. “ Under these circumstances, it may be hoped that still other successful ligations of the injured vena femoralis