ATHEROMA AND CALCIFICATION. 337 II. Hon-Traumatic or Idiopathic Arteritis.—The inflammatory process in idiopathic arteritis differs only in degree from that heretofore described as occurring in traumatic arteritis. When not due to syphilis, gout, rheu- matism, nephritis, or some dyscrasia, it is usually a part of an inflammation of the tissues immediately surrounding an artery. The process commences in the adventitia, and is analogous to that of traumatic arteritis. Atheroma and Calcification.—One of the frequent and most serious ter- minations of chronic arteritis, no matter what may have produced the arterial lesion, is the condition known as atheromatous degeneration (Fig. 516). It Fig. 516. Atheroma following arteritis. Section of aorta undergoing the atheromatous change, showing the cellular infil- tration of the deeper layers of the inner coat, and consequent bulging inwards of the intima. The new tissue has undergone more or less fatty degeneration. There is some cellular infiltration of the middle coat, i, the inter- nal; m, the middle; e, the external tunic. Magnified 50 diameters and reduced one-half. (Green.) is essentially a disease of mal-nutrition. It is a senile change, not of neces- sity coexistent with another disease. It is, as will be proven hereafter, prone to attack the arteries, especially those of the brain, in syphilis, and 1 he larger arteries in other affections. The fatty degeneration of endarteritis is a primary lesion, that of chronic arteritis is secondary. The one is local, the other general. Recovery from the one is possible, and the danger of death is slight. Shreds of fatty material may be carried by the blood and lodged in the cerebral or other remote vessels, doing great injury; but this accident is rare. The possibilities of chronic arteritis with atheroma are always grave. Above the dangers of thrombosis and embolism, and of cal- cification, are those of aneurism and of hemorrhage. The early recognition of this condition, though exceedingly difficult, is no less important. Atheroma commences in the deeper tissues of the arterial wall, and, advancing in the line of blood-supply, taps the sources of nutrition of the deeper tunics, causing their loss of function, death, and disappearance. It is a true necro- biosis. The fatty degeneration of atheroma not only involves the innermost layer of the intima (as does that form of degeneration which follows endarteritis), hut the muscular-fibre cells undergo complete metamorphosis, while the elas- tic lamina is the seat of extensive infiltration. In severe cases the work of destruction is complete, the normal tissues disappearing, and leaving nothing but a granular debris. Atheroma does not usually destroy an extensive area of the intima. The patches may be numerous, but not large. The molecular disintegration is vol. in.—22