348 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. the muscular, coat there is no distinct line of demarcation. The outer coat is somewhat irregularly thickened by cell-growth, which is especially abun- dant around the vasa vasorum, which are very numerous and much more developed than usual. At some points small vessels traverse the muscular and elastic coats, going into the deeper portions of the thickened intima. Fig. 524. t Syphilitic arteritis. Segment of the preceding specimen, magnified 170 diameters, a, lumen of vessel; 6, fenes trated membrane; a, c, thickened intima; d, muscular coat; v, adventitia ; g, new-formed imperfect elastic lamina. (After Greenfield.) The inner coat measures twice the thickness Ox the outer and middle coats together. Starting from the fenestrated membrane, in its neighborhood there is found a rather abundant cell-growth traversed by capillaries. Nearer the intima is found a fibrous tissue, formed of elongated, fusiform cells and delicate, interlacing fibrils of connective tissue, the whole constituting an im- perfectly developed fibrous tissue. Internal to this are seen more numerous, rounded cells, some of which are of larger size. Nearer to the lumen are seen elongated, oval nuclei, smaller and more highly refractile, and more closely packed together. It will be seen, by reference to my own case already given, that in the changes which occurred in the intima it was analogous to Dr. Greenfield’s first case, while in the irregular, nodulated condition of the muscular layer it was analogous to his second. In cases of constitutional syphilis, W. R. Gowers has studied the develop- ment of syphiloma in its relations to the arterioles. He concludes that the inflammatory material travels in the line of the vessels in the membranes of the brain. “ These processes (of inflammatory matter) follow the course of vessels, and an examination of the points of the processes shows that the ex- tension of the growth occurs along the perivascular canals.” According to Greenfield, the inflammatory matter in and around the peri- vascular canals in syphilis is entirely different from that in tubercular infil- tration of these canals. In vessels examined by Barlow, the same changes are reported as those given above (Bigs. 525, 526). The adventitia and muscular coats were more or less afiected,u but obviously the principal changes have taken place in the intima.” Davidson and Buzzard are led to the same conclusions with the foregoing, as is Green in his “ Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.”