232 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. common accidents of civil life as well as in the casualties produced by fire- arms and sabre-cuts in time of war. Furthermore, from the situation of this vessel and its branches in bony canals on the inner surface of the skull, there results, when it is torn across or severed, that the ends are held open by the surrounding structures, and that their expanded mouths cannot contract or retract; and for this reason spontaneous haemostasis does not. occur here, as it usually does in other parts of the body when arteries of a similar calibre are lacerated. Therefore, when the middle meningeal artery is wounded, the extravasated blood, if it cannot escape externally, collects be- tween the dura mater and the bone, and compresses the brain ; and the ex- travasation continues to go on, and the compression of the brain continually increases, until life is extinguished thereby. This is the reason why wounds of this small artery, in cases where there is no external vent for the extra- vasated blood afforded by the accident itself, or by the surgeon’s art, always prove fatal. This inability for spontaneous haemostasis to occur, is also the reason why the hemorrhage from this small artery, when it flows into an open wound, is often so persistent, and so difficult to suppress, that it demands the application of a ligature to the wounded vessel itself, or to the parent trunk, in order to save the patient from death by anaemic exhaustion. The symptoms which hemorrhage from this artery causes when the blood is imprisoned within the skull, I shall not recite, for they are the symptoms of cerebral compression, and will he found set forth in full in the article on Injuries of the Head. What I have here to say is that, in such cases, the artery must be laid bare where it is wounded, in order to arrest the hemor- rhage and avert its consequences, by performing the operation of trephining; and that, without the timely performance of this operation, there is no hope for the patient. If the application of one crown of a trephine does not bring the injured vessel into view, by reason of the clot covering it, or from any other cause, the instrument must he again applied over the normal track of the artery, either alongside the first perforation, or at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; the search must be continued until the bleeding vessel is found, and when that is done it must he ligatured with carbolized catgut. The coagula must also be removed, and the wound must be treated antiseptically. If the symptoms of compression follow the injury very quickly, the inference, in the absence of other indications, is that the artery is wounded near the point where it enters the skull, that is, near the anterior inferior angle of the parietal hone, and there the trephine should he applied. The middle meningeal artery is sometimes torn in cases of slight fissure of the inner table of the skull, when the outer table is uninjured. Such a case is the following :x-— A boy, of strong, muscular build, was struck on the right temple by a cricket ball. The symptoms of cerebral compression ensued, and he died three and one-half hours after he received the blow. Autopsy—No bruise was found. On reflecting the scalp, however, a very scanty extravasation of blood was discovered under the right temporal aponeurosis. The external table of the skull was uninjured; but there was a slight crack which extended across the inner table. At this part, the middle meningeal artery ran in an osseous canal. A piece of bone was broken off, and the artery was torn com- pletely across at this point. A clot, half the size of the fist, lay between the cranium and the dura mater, and the corresponding portion of the brain presented a distinctly bruised appearance. The operation of trephining, seasonably performed, with antiseptic precau- tions and antiseptic after-treatment, would pretty certainly save such a patient; Edinburgh Medical Journal, vol. iii. p. 191.