SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 352 ject into the territory occupied by the clot (Fig. 529); bloodvessels derived from the vasa vasorum permeate the projecting granulation tissue, invade the clot, meet with live vessels froili the opposite side, and join with these in a continuous circulation; the embryonic tissue organizes, gradually contracts (process of cicatrization), and the walls of the vessel are permanently occluded by this fibrillation. Afterwards, the new formed vessels disappear to a great degree, being obliterated by the contracting tissues. Fig. 529. Traumatic endarteritis. Transverse section of the femoral artery of a dog eight days after the application of a ligature, e, the elastic lamina; p, the media; b, granulation bud projecting from the intima into the lumen ; v, new formed vessel running through the inflammatory tissue. At a, the elastic layer has partly disappeared. Mag- nified 30 diameters. (From Cornil and Ranvier ) Fig. 512, from a section of the carotid of a horse, shows how this rapid proliferation of the normal cells of the intima occurs when the intima has not been divided. There was in this case simply an irritation of the intima, a bruising, the result of jamming together the opposing surfaces of the intima by means of a broad (not cutting) ligature. Indeed, if argument be needed to strengthen this position, how unanswera- ble is this: that this process of proliferation of the intima into granulation pro- jections is so extensive in some case of peri-arteritis that occlusion by throm- bosis occurs. Here surely there is no division of the coat, not even contact of surfaces, but an inflammation of the intima resulting from pre-existing peri- arteritis. Thrombosis from acute arteritis is rare. Chronic arteritis is not unfre- quently the cause of occlusion. Syphilitic arteritis is apt to develop throm- bosis of the cerebral arteries. Arterial thrombosis (excluding the vessels to the brain and walls of the heart) is not as dangerous to life as venous throm- bosis. The process is usually so gradual that the collateral circulation is estab- lished before occlusion of the main trunk occurs. This may indeed escape observation until the enlarging superficial arteries attract attention. I have elsewhere reported a case illustrative of this fact. The occlusion was the result of chronic arteritis with calcareous degeneration. The popli- teal was occluded from its bifurcation into the anterior and posterior tibial