24 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL malady, which has long occupied the attention of surgeons, has very rarely been noticed in young subjects, is seldom seen in women, and, though a dif- ferent opinion has been held by many, is more frequently met with in indi- viduals of the middle and higher classes than among hand-laborers. Usually regarded as of traumatic origin, and as consequent upon frequently repeated slight irritations, as, for instance, the pressure of a tool handle, such a causa- tion may well he questioned if it is most often a disease of those whose hands are not subjected to habitual pressure; and its frequent association with chronic dry arthritis makes it possible, not to say probable, that it is but an expression of a rheumatic or gouty diathesis. Ordinarily it affects but a single finger—either the ring or little finger—and never the thumb, for the simple reason, of course, that that digit is not connected with the true palmar fascia. Slowly developing, there is a steadily progressive drawing down of the finger towards the palm, the first phalanx only, as a rule, being flexed, though at times the second is so too. In the distal part of the palm, besides a more or less wide-spread thickening of the skin, there is to be seen and felt a well-defined, hard cord, thrown out in strong relief, following the course of the flexor tendon, most pronounced over the line of the metacarpo- phalangeal junction, and extending into the side rather than the anterior surface of the finger. Adhesions of greater or less extent will commonly be formed, sooner or later, between the fascia and skin. That the abnormal flexion of the finger is not due to muscular contraction, is shown by the non-involvement of all its divisions, but only of the first or, at most, of the first and second ; and also by the fact that no relaxation takes place under full anaesthesia. That it is the overlying fascia and not the ten- don that is contracted, is proved by the healthy state of the latter found upon dissection, by the free and full movements of the finger that can be effected as soon as the tense fascial hand is divided, and by the fact that the greatest elevation of the indurated cord is evidently over the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, just where the tendon is most firmly fastened down. Repeated careful examinations have demonstrated that it is the digital prolongations of the palmar fascia that are primarily affected, the disease in time progress- ing up along the fascia to a variable distance, and occasionally, as shown by Adams, downwards along the lateral insertions to the second phalanx, in which case this part of the finger becomes contracted along with the first. If left to themselves, these “ finger-contractions” go on from bad to worse, and can only terminate in marked deformity and impairment of the useful- ness of the hand. Internal medication, local applications, and mechanical appliances are of little or no value. Division of the band must he effected if relief is to he afforded; and this division may be either by open wound or subcutaneous, at one point or at many. _ If by open wound, the incision may he transverse and through the entire thickness of the skin and fascia— the method of Dupuytren—or longitudinal through the skin and transverse through the fascia, as practised by G-oyrand; or there may be a Y-shaped incision of the skin, with absolute removal of the contracted fascia, as in the more modern operation of Busch, the base of the flap corresponding to the line of the great transverse crease of the hand, and the apex extending to the highest point of the contraction. This flap may be left entirely to itself, or, after it has fully retracted, its edges may be stitched to the adjacent skin. No stretching out of the finger is to be attempted, either mechanically or by passive movement, until granulation is well established, and the opera- tion and after-treatment should be conducted antiseptically. Though very favorable reports have been given of the results of “ Busch’s method,’’yet, in common with all the other operations by open wound, it must have in it an