ANEURISM. 506 of the swelling is a rather elongated oval, the long axis oblique, the lower part of the tumor being covered by the clavicle; it may, indeed, protrude and pulsate also just below that bone. If the shoulder be raised, this bone glides over the tumor until the whole of a moderately small, or only part of a larger aneurism, is thereby concealed. If large, an aneurism in this situation may press the clavicle forward until subluxated. Certain pressure-symptoms are well marked. The first is usually a teasing cough, with altered voice, from slight stretching of the recurrent laryngeal nerve; then the internal jugular vein becomes distended, and may be seen engorged at the lower part of the neck. The tributary veins are also full; this is especially the case with the external jugular, which, assuming part of the deeper vessel’s office, becomes often exceedingly large. At a somewhat later period the veins of the hand and arm swell, and then those of the front wall of the axilla. As the tumor increases in size, so are these symptoms aggravated. Irrita- tion of the larynx yields to paralysis of the vocal cords; the veins of the neck, arm, and side become fuller, and these parts may even become varicose; the radial pulse is weaker than on the other side, and, indeed, is sometimes barely or even not at all perceptible. There is frequently some difficulty in distinguishing low-carotid, subclavian (of first part), innominate, and even, strange as it may seem, certain aortic aneurisms, from each other. Diagnostic signs are chiefly derivable from com- parison of the radial and carotid pulses on the same side. If the innominate be unaffected, the beat of the carotid is not altered; hence a pulsating tumor above the clavicle which greatly affects the radial, but not at all the carotid pulse, is purely subclavian; the innominate is involved if the impulse of both vessels be modified. Moreover, a purely subclavian aneurism is hardly ever to he felt in the episternal notch; while innominate and proximal aneurisms of the aortic arch can very nearly always be detected in that situation. Carotid and subclavian (first part) aneurisms of the left side are more easily differentiated, the absence of an innominate rendering them independent of each other. The first part of the carotid—namely, that between its origin and the sterno-clavicular joint—is only the subject of aneurism as forming part of aortic disease. The same may be said of the intra-thoracic portion of the subclavian. It need hardly be said that in subclavian aneurism of the left side, laryngeal symptoms are absent. Low Carotid Aneurism.—The tumor, while yet small, is felt to beat in the angle between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle; and when that muscle is relaxed, so that the finger can be passed behind its inner portion, the rounded margin of the pulsating swelling can there he distinctly made out. As the size of the aneurism increases, its inner edge comes to lie inside this muscle, and may be felt in the right1 portion of the episternal notch. The tumor, if ovoid in shape, has its long axis directed upward and downward. The impulse is upward. I do not, of course, mean that the blood-stream can actually be felt, but that the expansile wave is in that direction. The pulse of the carotid above the aneurism, about on a level with the thyroid cartilage (where it is most easily felt), is decidedly weaker than on the left side, as is also the beat of the arterial branches—the facial on the lower jaw, and the temporal; I rely rather upon the extremely facile compressibility of the arteries than on their mere weak beat. This peculiarity is carried even into very small branches, for if the patient’s ears be nipped simultaneously and with equal pressure for a few seconds, between the finger 1 The aneurism is supposed to he of the right carotid.