330 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. sleeplessness, hectic, anxious expression, and often the “pysemie breath.” The rectal temperature is variable and high; the pulse is thready and rapid, reaching in some instances 160. Sudden and dangerous symptoms may arise in the course of the disease, when particles from the venous thrombi are car- ried toward the heart. These usually lodge in the lungs, giving rise to sudden pulmonary complications, the result of infarction. The liver, in phlebitis of the veins which go into the portal circulation, is frequently the seat of embolic abscess. Hemorrhage from perforation of the venous wall by ulceration or gangrene, is another source of danger in severe cases of phle- bitis. Treatment of Phlebitis.—Positive and complete rest is the first great essential in the treatment of phlebitis. Manipulation or movement is dan- gerous, since interference will not only exaggerate the inflammatory process, but may possibly cause the separation of thrombi and produce infinite harm in remote organs. If the disease should assume the suppurative form, the in- flammation being diffuse and the oedema severe, I should practise free incisions parallel to the veins, secure as free drainage as possible, and employ constant irrigation until the more urgent symptoms had disappeared. I consider quinia to be indicated, not only on account of its well-known tonic &nd antifebrile pro- perties—although not strictly antiseptic in its action, the bacteria of septic fluids resisting its action to a great extent (Bartholow)—but because it exer- cises an inhibitory influence upon the emigrant corpuscles (Binz), important factors, as Cohnheim has shown, in the inflammatory process. The use of iron, careful feeding, and a supply of pure air and plenty of it, will complete the constitutional treatment. Locally, the part should be invested with cotton batting, laid upon and not bound to the member affected. The extremity involved should be slightly elevated to favor the return circulation. Arteritis. Arteritis is a term applied to an inflammatory process which involves the entire thickness of the arterial wall. When the inflammatory change is confined to the inner coat, or intima, it is designated as endarteritis; when to the outer coat, or adventitia, as 'periarteritis; and when to the middle coat, or media, as mesarteritis. While arteritis is not an infrequent disease, it is seldom that either of the above subdivisions of this morbid condition exists alone. Endarteritis, if if does not rapidly disappear soon after its inception, will lead in great proba- bility to lesions of the media and adventitia, and in like manner a lesion of the external tunic will in all probability involve, by the extension of the morbid process, the other coats. There are, however, certain well-defined, circumscribed lesions of the sepa- rate tunics. Endarteritis is, as an isolated lesion, capable of demonstration. We shall see that a superficial inflammation of the endothelia, with its re- sultant fatty degeneration, is not infrequent. Again, mesarteritis exists as a primary and separate inflammation, for primary calcification (denied by some pathologists), which is strictly a disease of the tunica media, precipi- tates an inflammation in this middle tunic. And since atheroma and other arterial lesions are due to interference with the blood-supply through the vasa vasorum, or to defect in the quality of the blood distributed to the adventitia through which the vessels ramify, we must recognize a periarteritis as the initial stage of this lesion.