55 SPONTANEOUS ARREST OF ARTERIAL HEMORRHAGE. ice, etc., whereby full contraction of these muscular fibres and consequent closure of the bleeding apertures may at once be obtained. II. Retraction of the Artery.—Retraction of the ends of the severed artery into its sheath, and into the loose connective tissue by which arteries and their sheaths are not unfrequently surrounded, likewise ensues. But it does not follow the complete division of arteries with anything like the same uniformity as contraction of the cut extremities. It is often inconsiderable, and sometimes even does not take place. For instance, I have seen in a wound of the palm of the hand where a branch of the radial artery was divided, the two ends of the injured vessel not retracting, hut, in fact, projecting some- Avhat from the surface, so as to be easily taken up and tied. I have also seen very nearly the same thing occur in wounds of the scalp, and in wounds of the face. * But when the severed artery is not surrounded by dense structures, when it is situated between the muscles and not in the substance of any of them, and the connective tissue around it is quite lax, then the two ends retract very sensibly, and become buried, as it were, in the flesh. When retraction such as this occurs, it renders the escape of blood much more diffi- cult, and thus assists materially in suppressing hemorrhage. The retraction of severed arteries is also due solely to the action of the muscular and elastic tissue in the several coats; and, generally, it does not take place as early or as promptly as the constriction of the cut extremities. III. Coagulation of the Blood.—When the orifices are not completely closed by contraction of the muscular coat, the blood may coagulate as it escapes from these orifices, and thus fill the part of the wound external to the cut ends of the artery with a firm clot called the external coagulum; and, likewise, may fill up or plug the constricted ends of the artery with a firm clot called the internal coagulum. Thus arterial bleeding may he, and not unfrequently has been, completely suppressed; and when the internal co- agulum becomes organized, the bleeding remains permanently arrested, and the arterial canal at the place of injury becomes obliterated. IY. Increased Coagulability of the Blood.—As the hemorrhage pro- gresses and syncope approaches, the tendency of the blood to coagulate is very much augmented; and this acquired quality of the blood often assists not a little in the process of natural haemostasis. Y. Diminished Force of the Heart.—Diminution of the force with which the heart contracts, as the loss of blood increases, also facilitates very much the occurrence of natural haemostasis. The vigorous manner in which the jet of blood is thrown by each contraction of the left ventricle, is the principal obstacle to the formation of blood-clot around and within the cut vessel; for not only does the movement of the blood prevent coagulation, but, as long as the jet is more powerful than the cohesion of the clot, it will cer- tainly wash the coagulum away. As the blood flows, and the heart’s impulse becomes gradually lessened in force, the jet becomes lower and lower, until at last, when faintness comes on, it is almost entirely arrested, and time is afforded to form and consolidate a coagulum which shall permanently close the aperture in the wounded artery. Phenomena of Spontaneous Arrest of Arterial Bleeding.—The sponta- neous arrest of hemorrhage from such arteries as the radial and ulnar, when wounded, is attended with the following phenomena:—