ANEURISM. 384 and cord-like, and were very tender. That evening his temperature decreased to 96.4°, and afterwards remained normal. A slight stimulation of the skin with ammonia lini- ment was followed in three days by relief. On the 23d it was noted (I being absent) that the axillary and brachial arteries were swollen, hard, and excessively tender ; their enlargement was even visible; they were painted with tincture of iodine ; the pain and swelling disappeared in three days. As other conditions more grave than the localized arteritis were probably affecting the temperature, little stress can be laid on the constitutional symp- toms ; but it is remarkable that the thermometer declined to below the normal standard on the evening when the above symptoms were complained of. It is also to be observed that this occurrence took place in empty vessels, and perhaps might be the natural result of nature’s successful effort to close, by inflammation or adhesion, useless tubes. A slighter instance, following in all probability the impaction of an embolus, also occurred in my practice:— Case V—Edward E., aged 46, stationer, was admitted under my care into Charing Cross Hospital, December 19, 1880. The man’s father died of heart disease ; he him- self has always led a regular and temperate life, and has never had syphilis. Twelve years ago he had “ rheumatic gout” (probably a smart attack of subacute rheumatism); he has of late suffered from palpitation of the heart. On December 11, he gave a lad a back- handed box on the ear. Half an hour afterwards, while using a small plane, he noticed that his fingers became contracted and his hand weak ; afterwards the arm felt very tired, with tingling and aching. Next day, on washing in cold water, the 3d and 4th fingers “ went dead” (the weather at the time was unusually mild). The sense of weakness and the aching increased slightly up to the time of admission. No pyrexia; hand cold. December 17 The beat of the right radial pulse was barely perceptible, that of the left one normal; .the man complained of pain and tingling from the elbow to the axilla, along the course of the vessels and nerves; a cord-like enlargement of the artery could here be distinguished. Dec. 18—The pain up the inner side of the arm and along the front of the forearm was, he says, considerable during the night; to-day there was no pulse at all in the right radial; a slight hypnotic was ordered, and fomenta- tions. Dec. 19 I saw the patient for the first time and examined him very carefully. The arm being wrapped in cotton-wool was warm nearly to the elbow, a little lower in front than behind ; beyond this boundary the limb became gradually cooler ; the hand was cold. Both the radial and ulnar arteries were rather hard to the touch; neither pulsated ; above the elbow, a round, not very firm, cord could be felt in the position of the brachial artery, not pulsating, but full; pain as well as tenderness was here complained of. The heart’s action was very irregular (Dr. Bruce’s report as to the heart is given at the end of the case), but I could detect no murmur ; perhaps a little enlargement. There was no elevation of temperature; urine, digestion, appetite, etc., were perfectly normal; but the man was of nervous temperament, had read some medical books, used medical terms, and complainedof several pains, the existence of which seemed doubtful, though some about the right arm may very likely have been owing to dilating collateral vessels. Dec. 22.— Still continues in much the same state ; slept badly, from pain in the testicles. January 4.—Pain and tenderness had gradually diminished ; he said the arm still felt weak, and a little numb; the radial, ulnar, and brachial pulse was absent, the brachial artery feel- ing like a hard cord (a cedar-pencil), movable beneath the skin. Dr. Mitchell Bruce has been kind enough to give me the following report of the state of Edward E.’s heart. Pulsation very irregular, second sound weak and muffled, some hypertrophy. A distinct murmur at base and apex, coincident with both first and second sounds, indicative of aortic incompetence due in all probability to warty endocarditis. Chronic endarteritis is one of the most common diseases to which the human subject, after middle life, is prone ; the disease itself presents no symp- tom by which its presence can be inferred: it is known chiefly by its effects. It is most common at the commencement of the aorta, and next in the cerebral branches ; but it may arise in any artery, and indeed, in far advanced cases,