536 ANEURISM. On the other hand, if the vessel be one of the smaller branches of the scalp, dilatation of its offsets and of all inosculating twigs may cause the disease to assume the characters of cirsoid aneurism rather than that of direct com- munication, though in nearly all such cases the thrill-murmur is quantita- tively different from the slight, rustling bruit of ordinary, large angeiomata. Again, from the cases already quoted, it is evident that murmur may, for a time, be the only symptom of the disease, which must surely have been present, though inactive, during the ten and the eight and a half years of abeyance of Beaumont’s and Cotter’s cases. Treatment of Arterio- Venous Aneurism.—The treatment of this condition must be on the lines, slightly modified, of that of common, sacculated aneu- rism, but certain of the methods applicable to that affection are, as a rule, useless in this complicated form of the disease. Moreover, certain differences exist as to the management of the varicose and varix varieties. In varicose aneurism, treatment is always necessary, while many cases of aneurismal varix, especially of the upper extremity, producing no pain, and not leading to rupture and hemorrhage, may be left untreated, or be simply met with palliative measures. Fortunately, also, varicose aneurism is some- what more amenable than the other form to non-operative measures, namely, to the various forms of pressure. The presence of a sac in these cases is the point of vantage accorded to that form of treatment, and, indeed, it is pro- bable that Reid’s method—the elastic bandage being applied both below and above, but not over, the tumor—would be that most adapted to the exigen- cies of the case.1 In the event of that mode of treatment failing, direct and indirect pressure should be given a full and fair trial, and in most cases it will be better to alternate these methods, according to the pain produced and the susceptibility of the patient. Even if the aneurism itself be not cured by these means, it may, perhaps, be converted into a simple aneurism by closure of the venous opening. Helaton2 records four cases in which this transformation took place, but it is somewhat singular that no such change has occurred in the practice of any other surgeon ; Helaton’s patients were, it appears, afterwards cured, some by indirect pressure, some by the Hun- terian ligature. Injection of perchloride of iron has been employed, and in two cases with success—once, namely, by coagulation, and once by suppuration of the sac.3 When, however, the precautions which must be taken during the treatment of simple aneurism by this method are considered, it certainly seems to me that the double communication of the sac of a varicose aneurism must render still more pressing the danger of embolism, unless, indeed, the blood in the whole limb be entirely immobilized for an unusually long time. The same remark may apply to galvano-puncture ; yet three cases, two quoted by Cini- selli and one recorded by Debout, are said to have been thus cared. The ligature for varicose aneurism is not to be lightly employed, but is most certainly justifiable when the tumor is increasing quickly enough to render rupture a mere question of time, or when pressure on other veins, besides that immediately implicated, renders gangrene a more probable re- sult of delay than of interference. Cases, moreover, in which expectant or temporizing treatment can be adopted, are rare, though less so in the upper than in the lower limb. The Hunterian deligation must be rejected; it almost 1 I have not myself had, since the introduction of this method, any opportunity of treating a varicose aneurism, nor can I find any record of a case so treated; the above opinion must, therefore, be taken as formed on a priori grounds only. 2 Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, 2e s., t. xxxiii. p. 155. 3 Jobert (de Lamballe), Bulletin de l’Academie de Medecine, 1854; Vallette, ibid., 1859.