282 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. was filled with coagulated blood (thrombus) from the popliteal to the mouth of tha piofunda. The subcutaneous connective tissue was highly cedematous, this oedema, as well as the hemorrhage, being obviously due to the obstruction of the venous circula- tion. Three additional examples of secondary parenchymatous hemorrhage, which came under my own observation, are reported in the volume of II. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, already referred to.1 We have thus mentioned five cases in which parenchymatous hemorrhage occurred during the secondary period. In all of them the bleeding was pre- ceded by general debility, pallor, and loss of flesh. All of them proved fatal. In three instances, the veins were examined after death, and their condition noted; in every instance, the principal veins leading from the seat of the parenchymatous bleeding were found perfectly occluded by coagulated blood, that is, they were plugged up by thrombosis. In the remaining two instances, doubtless, the veins were also plugged up by blood-clots. In every one of the five cases, likewise, there were more or less strongly marked symptoms of pyaemia. To the obstructive form of secondary parenchymatous hemorrhage, just described, there is another of some importance which must be added. Capil- lary hemorrhages may be produced on the surface of granulating wounds by powerful stimuli to the vascular and nervous systems of any kind, as, for instance," venereal excitement, and excess in drinking. The first-named is the common, and the latter an occasional, cause of this additional form of parenchymatous bleeding, which may occur during the secondary period in the history of wounds or surgical operations. Scorbutic Parenchymatous Hemorrhage.—Scurvy essentially consists of an alteration in the constitution of the blood, which leads to an effusion from the capillaries into the various tissues of a fibrinous liquid, usually deeply colored by red corpuscles. The passive hemorrhages which take place from the gums, nose and ears, stomach, and bowels, and occasionally from the lungs and bladder, in cases of scurvy, are usually capillary hemorrhages. The sanguinolent effusions on the free surfaces of sores or ulcers, which impart to them the peculiar aspect termed “ scorbutic,” are also poured out from the capillaries, and therefore they appear to ooze out from the paren- chyma at the base and margins of these sores or ulcers. When scorbutic persons are wounded, the more or less copious oozing of a sanguinolent liquid from their wounds, or parenchymatous hemorrhage, is not uncommon in the primary, the intermediary, and the secondary periods, but especially in the first two of these. Boyer relates a case where it occurred in the secondary period:— I amputated (he says) the middle finger of a man, aged 50, for caries in consequence of whitlow. The collateral arteries were tied ; the ligatures came away on the seventh day; no hemorrhage followed. Shortly afterward, however, the lips of the wound became bloated, "black, soft, and spongy, and bled freely on the slightest touch. From this time the patient experienced every day considerable hemorrhage, to which the ligature and compression were opposed in vain. The bloated appearance of the wound, the spongy state of the gums, the violet spots which appeared on several parts of the body, especially the legs, left no doubt of the existence of scurvy. The patient was then placed upon a strongly antiscorbutic plan of treatment; the hemorrhage soon ceased, and he rapidly recovered. Op. cit., 245-248.