TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 243 A. H. Fig. 440. B. W. Diagram showing where the ligature is applied in Anel’s, Hunter’s, Brasdor’s, and Wardrop’s operations. (A.) In Anel’s operation the ligature is applied to the artery on the cardiac side of the lesion, but between it and the first collateral branch. (H.) In Hunter’s operation the ligature is applied to the main trunk on the cardiac side of the lesion, at a point much further from the lesion, and above the first collateral branch. (B.) In Brasdor’s operation the ligature is applied to the main trunk on the distal side of the lesion. (W.) In Wardrop’s modification of Brasdor’s operation, the ligature is applied to a branch on the distal side of the lesion. lesion of the artery gave no trouble until July 12, when a circumscribed traumatic aneurism as large as a pullet’s egg was discovered. Between the 12th and 14th the tumor grew so rapidly that I feared to experiment with compression, lest meanwhile a rupture of the sac might ensue. It was so distinctly circumscribed, and resembled a spontaneous aneurism so closely in look and feel, that I thought Hunter’s operation would almost certainly succeed, and accordingly I performed it. The wound made by the operation did well, and the ligature came away on the eighteenth day. Not so, however, with the aneurism; for on July 19 the sac suppurated, and discharged its contents through the anterior orifice made by the missile. The flow of purulent matter from the sac continued. On August 6, a violent secondary hemorrhage occurred, and several times recurred, until the patient died, on the 29th, worn out by the suppura- tion and the loss of blood. Autopsy—The distal end of the artery was found closed. The proximal end was found open, and from it the secondary hemorrhage had issued, the blood being derived from a reflux through the axillary branches into the axillary Ligation of the left subclavian artery for circumscribed traumatic aneurism of the axillary: failure from secondary hemorrhage occurring in the wound. trunk, and so through its open mouth, on the establishment of a collateral circulation. The only operation which could have prevented this mishap was the old one. The artery is preserved as a preparation in our Army Medical Museum.1 It is also repre- sented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 441). In all cases like this, the “ old operation” will afford a much better chance of saving the patient than the operation of Hunter or of Anel. The best method of performing the “ old operation” in the arm- 1 Spec. 1684, Sect. I.