DELIGATION OF A&TERIES. 323 Operation.—Make an incision two and a half inches long over the external border of the fibula, terminating opposite its middle. Divide consecutively the skin, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, whereby the origin of the soleus muscle will be brought into view. This must be detached and drawn in- ward, when the border of the fibula will be distinctly exposed. The operator now divides the fibres of the flexor longus pollicis, and separates them from the posterior surface of the fibula, at the inner surface of which will be found the artery, at the point where the interosseus membrane joins the bone. Fig. 508. Ligation of the Anterior Tibiae Artery.—The anterior tibial artery passes forward between the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and through the opening in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, to the anterior tibial region. It then descends the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle-joint, where it becomes the arteria dorsalis pedis. Relations.—In its downward course it rests upon the interosseous membrane —to which it is connected by a small tendinous arch that is thrown over it— upon the lower part of the tibia, and upon the anterior ligament of the joint. In the upper third of its course it is situated between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum; lower down between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor proprius pollicis; and just before it reaches the ankle-joint, it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Its immediate relations are with the venae comites and the anterior tibial nerve, the latter of which lies at first to its outer side, and, about the middle of the leg, becomes placed superficially to the artery. The course of the artery is indicated by a line drawn from the inner border of the fibula, above, to a point midway between the two malleoli, below. Operation at the Upper Third.—Having turned the limb inward, and extended the foot, take as a guide the line just mentioned, or a point ten lines to the outer side of the spine of the tibia, and make an incision four inches in length through the in- teguments. Divide the deep fascia by a cruciform incision to allow its complete separation. The in- termuscular septum is now to be sought for, and may be recognized (a) as the first intermuscular space from the tibia; (b) on pressure from within outward, by the resistance of the other muscles; (c) at the lower part of the incision, by the white line of the muscular interspace being more marked. The foot being flexed, separate the muscles with the in- dex finger; and, the margins of the wound being drawn apart by retractors, expose the artery with its veme comites and the anterior tibial nerve, the latter of which is outside. Pass the needle from without inward. Operation at the Middle Third.—In this part of its course the artery is covered by the skin, the super- ficial, and the deep fascia. On the inner side it has the tibialis anticus muscle, and, on the outer, the extensor longus digitorum and the extensor (sediiiot.) proprius pollicis (Fig. 508). Having placed the limb in the same position as directed above, make an incision three and a half inches in length, along the course of the artery, and through the integu-