198 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. witness, testified : “Leighton gave a sweep with his right hand ; Mary staggered into the basement, and pointing three times up towards her apartments, fell over and died, without saying a word.” All the eye-witnesses testified that the blood ran down from her neck in a great stream. At the autopsy, an incised wound, five inches in length and two inches in depth, severing the internal jugular vein but not the carotid artery, was found on the left side of the neck ; and there had evidently been but a single stroke of the razor. It is somewhat remarkable, that, although the internal jugular vein has not unfrequently been opened in incised wounds with a fatal result from the loss of blood, S. W. Gross, on diligent search, could find only four cases on record. This circumstance affords good cause for reporting the above case with some minuteness of detail. Death ensued from the loss of blood in one, or at the utmost, two minutes. Incised wounds dividing the internal jugular vein that have size enough to allow the blood to escape externally without any hindrance, prove fatal quite as speedily as similar wounds of the common carotid artery, if not more so. In accounting for the extreme rapidity with which death ensues, in such cases, the enormous capacity of the internal jugular vein for discharging blood, and its freedom from valves, as well as the anatomical relation which it bears to the great sinuses of the dura mater which empty directly into it, must he considered. Thus, the hemorrhage occurs in a great stream drawn directly from the cranial cavity, whereby cere- bral anaemia of a fatal character is directly produced with the greatest possi- ble celerity. The following example, as far as it goes, confirms these views:— M. Vallee saw a soldier who had been stabbed in the neck, the right jugular vein being almost completely divided. The edges of the wound were retracted, and the vein was empty. Death was almost instantaneous.1 This example, like the last, vividly illustrates the destructive power of the primary bleeding in such instances. But, in cases where the internal jugular vein is gashed, if the hemorrhage be restrained by timely compression until the vein can be ligatured above and below the lesion, the patient may he saved, as'is shown by the result in the following instance :— Mr. John Woodman2 records the case of a woman whose throat was cut with a razor. A longitudinal wound was found in the left internal jugular vein, a wound therefore at right angles to that in the skin. Owing to the hemorrhage necessitating constant compression, much difficulty was experienced in ligaturing the vein, but it was finally tied above and below the wound. The bleeding came from the distal part of the vessel. The result was successful. A case is reported in the Medical and Surgical History of our civil war which admirably illustrates the same point:— Private William McDonald, Co. F, 51st New York Volunteers, received a gunshot fracture of the lower jaw, March 14, 1862. The missile lodged behind the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. In cutting down over the ball, in order to extract it, on January 5, 1863, the vein was accidentally wounded. The hemorrhage, however, was inconsiderable, being controlled by pressure, the danger of cutting the vein, and the probability of the accident, having been anticipated and provided for. The ball was extracted with some difficulty. A double ligature was passed around the vein, so as to secure it above and below the aperture. The wound was drawn together by interrupted sutures and adhesive straps. It healed kindly, the ligatures coming away on the ninth day after the operation.3 1 Graz. Medicate, 1837, p. 267; and American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1867, p.’ 37. 2 British Medical Journal, October 18, 1873. a Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surgical Volume, p. 397.