513 TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS AT ROOT OF NECK. tied also the carotid, while Parker ligatured both that vessel and the verte- bral. The results, however, disappointed the expectations of the operators, and bleeding occurred in the same way. In nine cases, in which the first part of the subclavian only was tied, the operation was undertaken for the cure of subclavian aneurism, and in one case for that of axillary aneurism; these, with Arendt’s and McGill’s cases, and the three in which other vessels also were ligatured, make up the number to fifteen, of which all, save three, are known to have terminated fatally from hemorrhage. A sixteenth case (Hobart’s) belongs to and will be found in another category (aortic aneurism), while three cases (tabulated by Wyeth), in two of which the vessel was secured for gunshot wound, and in the third for vascular tumor of the scalp, do not belong to our subject; all four patients died of hemorrhage. An alternative lies between this operation and deligation of the innominate, but in this choice statistics guide us very little. There have been twenty- three examples of this procedure,1 and death has resulted in twenty-two. In the one which survived, secondary hemorrhage occurred; Dr. Smyth, of ISTew Orleans, had tied, at the same time, both the innominate and the caro- tid ; fourteen days afterwards, hemorrhage occurred, and was repeated, but less copiously, at intervals. At last, fifty-four days after the first operation, the vertebral was tied; the patient after this did well, and survived ten years, ultimately dying, however, of hemorrhage from the sac. When we consider the results of these forty-two cases of subclavian and innominate deligation, we are first struck by the frightful death-rate, and, going further, by the fact that the hemorrhage has invariably come from the distal part of the vessel. This is accounted for by the very free anastomoses in the neck, but principally by those of the vessels at the base of the brain. If the subclavian (first part) be alone tied, blood finds its way down the thyroid axis, but more especially, down the vertebral, into the vessel beyond the liga- ture, while tying also the common carotid helps but little, since blood readily passes down that artery into itp branches, and so to the subclavian, as well as by way of the vertebral artery. The same thing occurs as in the last case, if the innominate alone be ligatured. Thus a question naturally arises, namely, if a certain sort of ligature could be trusted to effectually prevent secondary bleeding (the vascular coats being undivided), would deligation of the vessel cure the aneurism, unless other arteries—carotid and vertebral— were also tied ? This question can only be answered by experience, such as we have as yet had little or no opportunity of acquiring. It must be remem- bered that a certain current through the aneurismal sac is advantageous, but we do not as yet know whether the collateral flow would not, in a large proportion of cases, be so rapid as to prevent consolidation. The condition of the aneurism is described in a few only of the recorded cases; but in most of these the sac is said to have been contracted, much thickened, and filled with clot or with laminated fibrin. Deligation of the right subclavian artery in its first part.—The operations of tying the first part of the right subclavian and the innominate are very simi- lar. About six slightly different modes of making the first incisions have been practised. Two only need be mentioned, viz., the method by a single transverse or oblique incision, and that by two incisions meeting at an angle: this last is the one which I should recommend. Begin about 2J inches above the sterno-clavicular joint, and over the round belly of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Make an incision ending on the clavicle a little outside the articulation ; from this, carry outward another in- 1 Including the case recently recorded by Thomson, of Dublin. See Appendix to this Article, p. 538. VOL. III.—33