338 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. confined to certain well-defined spots, in the centre of which is found the softened, broken-down “ pulp” which lias given rise to the term “ atheroma.” Examined under the microscope, the contents of these pulp-cavities will he found to consist of fat granules, granular corpuscles, and cholesterin crystals, exactly analogous to those sometimes found in abscesses of long duration. Shreds of fibrous tissue may be present. It can be readily conceived how the rupture of one or more of these pulp-cavities, together with the weak- ened state of the middle and outer coats, would lead to the formation of aneu- rism. This danger is not so imminent when the inflammatory process has advanced slowly, for the reason that secondary calcification (a conservative process) is more apt to take place. The same may be said of primary calci- fication where the lime salts are deposited in the “ coagulation necrosis” of the media. The atheromatous and calcareous degenerations may exist in the same loca- tion and at the same time. "While the cell-structure of the intima is being transformed into granular matter, the fibrillated basement substance nearest the media is the seat of calcareous deposit, at first granular, the granules ad- hering to form clusters or flakes. At the same time, the nuclei of the mus- cular-fibre cells are filled in and around with calcareous matter. The entire muscular coat may he converted into a calcified cylinder, Or, as is most usual, the process may be confined to isolated patches. In either case, the entire thickness of the wall may eventually undergo the same morbid changes. When the laj’er of cells between the calcareous deposits and the blood-cur- rent has been broken down by the atheromatous process,.it may disappear in the blood and leave the flakes of calcareous matter exposed to view from within. These in turn may be carried away, or they may be undermined by the blood-current and lead to aneurismal pouches by dissection. With athe- roma, calcareous degeneration may invade the entire arterial system, the arte- ries of the extremities becoming brittle and unyielding. The smaller arteries are most apt to be involved, especially those of the brain. This condition is a part of senile malnutrition, and leads to more or less complete occlusion of I] the vessels, to loss of function of the portions of the body most seriously in- volved, and to gangrene. It is the commencement of death. In many cases of atheromatous and calcareous degeneration in the aged, enormous dilatations occur. The dilatation is not uniform, as a rule, but the walls of the dilated artery (usually the aorta and the arteries of the second class) are pouched in many places. The calcareous matter will be found to be thickest in those portions of the wall which are less dilated, while the dilated pouches have undergone a more complete fatty degeneration. This condition is commonly known as arteritis deformans. The middle coat may be in places entirely destroyed, when the changed intima will be joined with the adventitia by a connective tissue new-forma- tion, which (see Fig. 510) contains vessels passing directly to the intima. Loss of the elastic tunic is one of the immediate causes of spontaneous aneu- rism (Cornil and Ranvier). This condition of atrophy of the elastic lamina is beautifully shown in Fig. 517, which was drawn from one of my specimens by Dr. Wardwell. Calcification of arteries has been especially studied by Dr. W. L. Ward- well, of Few York City, in Cohnheim’s Laboratory. His experience includes examinations made from twenty-five cases at the request of Cohnheim, who assents to his conclusions. Dr. Wardwell says all authorities recognize a morbid change in the arteries known as calcification, and the majority look J upon it as a change secondary to atheroma or endarteritis. Few of these I recognize a primary calcification not dependent upon a preceding inflamma- tion. This condition is, however, the chief change in the senile calcification