579 INFLAMMATORY LESIONS OF NERVES. atrophy observed in animals operated upon. This atrophy is in correspond- ence with the lesions described by M. Hayem in rabbits; the myelitis conse- cutive to ascending neuritis is a gray myelitis, with degenerative alterations of the cells of the anterior cornua. Now, although we do not know the spinal lesions with which the symptoms that we have been describing corre- spond, since hitherto no microscopic examination of the spinal cord has ever been made in these conditions, it may, without rashness, be supposed that the alterations are very analogous to those which have been observed in animals; and it is upon the constancy of the phenomena of muscular atrophy that this supposition can rest with the most probability. If then the cause of the immediate palsies of our first group remains yet quite unknown, it may be admitted that the more tardy, atrophic palsies which are consecutive to nerve-injuries, are connected with the extension of inflammation from the injured nerve to the spinal cord, the subacute myelitis which is its consequence being sometimes localized, sometimes extending to a greater or less distance, and affecting especially the large motor cells of the anterior cornua. Inflammatory Lesions of Nerves. The inflammatory lesions of nerves include congestion and neuritis. Congestion of Nerves. — Congestion of nerves is frequent, since it is generally met with in all nerves which are involved in a focus of inflamma- tion, and often extends beyond that focus (Cornil and Ranvier). It may be ■caused by traumatisms, or by excesses of heat or cold. It was experi- mental cooling of the nerves, that permitted Weir Mitchell and Waller to study congestion of these structures. Congestion of nerves may also follow exposure to moist cold, or to the impression of a current of air (rheumatic neuralgia). In congestion, the nerves are slightly swollen ; upon their surface are seen red lines which indicate hypersemia of the perifascicular vessels; the intra- fascicular vessels are also dilated, and there occur a serous exudation in the perifascicular connective-tissue, and often miliary hemorrhages. The symptoms of congestion are not very definite. There are observed sharp pains, throbbing (as in cases of chilblain and whitlow), formication, numbness, hyperesthesia, and occasionally muscular weakness. There is pain upon pressure at the level of the congested point. We have seen that certain neuralgias, termed rheumatic, have been attri- buted to congestion of the nerves. We also admit the existence of paralysis a frigore (Capozzi), due to the, reflex action of cold upon the motor nerve- fibres, a paralysis which is constantly recovered from. Certain contractions have been attributed to hypersemia and to oedema of nerves; Jobert, Wun- derlich, and Browm-Sequard, have considered congestion of nerves as the cause of tetanus. Neuritis.—The history of neuritis is yet far from being complete. It seems that there are united under this name anatomical lesions of different causes and nature: inflammation, properly so called, with its exudates; and progressive, ascending or descending, sclerosis or cirrhosis of the nerve. In- flammation manifests itself differently, according to the tissues and organs ; nerves ofl'er to it a remarkable resistance, especially in regard to acute inflam- mation. Experimental investigators have ascertained the difficulty of causing acute neuritis, and the impossibility of producing ascending neuritis,