498 ANEURISM. it fatigues the hand rapidly, but obviates the troubles which patients so often experience when the vessel is compressed against the spine. Even with the best precautions it will be impossible, while the patient is conscious, to prolong the sittings very much, or to let them follow each other rapidly. Thus, in orbital aneurism, the pressure in the three successful cases was used in one case (Gioppi) for a minute or two at a time; in another, for about five minutes; and in the third, from twenty to thirty minutes a day. In the very few cases of success in carotid aneurism, from ten to fifteen minutes’ pressure was (if I read the accounts correctly) the utmost that could be borne. The rapid method is, of course, open to the surgeon; but he must remember that this method may require from one to many hours’ anaesthesia; he may, during such treatment, have great difficulty in distinguishing between the causes of syncope or asphyxia that maybe due either to the direct effect of the anaesthetic, to cutting oft' a part of the blood-supply to the brain, or to failure of the heart or lungs through pressure upon the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves. Such pressure, while the patient is under the influence of any anaesthetic, can hardly be free from danger. Pressure is reported to have been suc- cessful in six cases; of these, three were traumatic. Of the others, I may say that one occurring in a rather lean old lady (reported as greatly benefited, but afterwards relapsed), was, to my mind, not an aneurism, but one of those not abnormal enlargements at the bifurcation already mentioned. It is quite impossible to ascertain the number of cases in which pressure has been used and failed—and a proportion or percentage of its effects is there- fore unobtainable. The proximal ligature for high carotid aneurism is the form of operation to be chosen, and, when possible, one would elect to tie the vessel shortly below its fork; but in some cases the position of the sac leaves no choice—• the vessel must be taken up, if at all, lower down in the neck ; the two forms of operation are termed respectively “above” and “below” the omo-hyoid. The former is the easier, and is thus performed. Ligation of Carotid above Omo-hyoid.—The patient, being etherized, should have a rather thick pillow placed under the shoulders, but none under the head, which, falling back, renders the middle part of the neck prominent; the face should be slightly turned towards the unaffected side.1 The sur- geon feels about midway between the clavicle and the ear for the edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and makes there an incision about two and one-half inches long, so placed that its middle shall be on a level with the cricoid cartilage. This incision may go at once through the platysma and fascia, but if this latter structure be not then divided (the muscular fibres of the sterno-mastoid not being in view) the knife must be drawn down the track again. In doing this, it is well to spare any large vein (the external jugular sometimes crosses here), or to tie it, if divided, at both ends. The operator’s finger will, if the fascia have been sufficiently incised, very easily turn the sterno-mastoid outward, and then will be seen the omo-hyoid, which can generally be pressed inward without using the knife; or the fascia, on its outer edge, may require some dissection. These two muscles, with the other soft parts, are now to be held respectively itiward and outward. On looking into the wound, the operator sees the yellow, fat-charged fascia, one 1 Once or twice I have found my assistants forcing the patient’s chin far over to the opposite shoulder ; this embarrasses, as it causes the sterno-mastoid to overlie the artery : the chin should be kept about midway between the acromion and the episternal notch of the opposite side. I may add here, that in certain aneurismal cases (aortic and innominate) the etherized patient cannot breathe while the head is thrown back ; the ansesthetizer is obliged to insist on bending it forward, and the operator has to get at the vessel under very trying circumstances, since in that posture it lies much deeper, and the ramus of the jaw is terribly in the way.