89 TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. external coat where it is constricted by the ligature, which re-enforces and materially strengthens it, the part of the external coat that has been crushed in the embrace of the ligature disappears by ulceration, and the ligature itself separates, as it is termed, so that by gentle traction it may be withdrawn from the wound. The ligature having come away, the two ends of the artery which has thus been severed by it readily coalesce, and become cemented together with plastic material. (Fig. 389.) A corporal, aged 28,1 was wounded in the face, Oct. 27, 1864, and on the 31st, was admitted to general hospital. A ball had entered the left side of the chin, passed inward, and lodged beneath the angle of the lower jaw, whence it was extracted through the mouth. Cold-water dressings and a compress to the jaw were applied. On Nov. 4, secondary hemorrhage occurred. It was arrested by plugging the wound with sponges. On the 6th the hemorrhage recurred, and the common carotid was tied just above the omo-hyoid; but, on the 16th, the patient died from exhaustion. The autopsy revealed a firm clot in the artery. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum and is represented in the accom- panying woodcut. (Fig. 389.) The proximal portion of the artery has been opened, so as to show the extent of the proximal clot. The cause of death appears to have been anaemic exhaustion due to the losses of blood which had occurred prior to the operation. The next example serves, likewise, to illustrate the pro- cess by which arteries become closed after they have had any of the so-called permanent ligatures applied to them A soldier was wounded2 on May 31, 1862, by a musket-ball, left mastoid process, passed beneath the maxillary, and emerged Secondary hemorrhage occurred on June 13 and 14; where- upon the left common carotid was tied above the omo-hyoid mus- cle ; but death supervened on the 24th. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the accompa- nying wood-cut. (Fig. 390.) It consists of the proximal portion of the ligated artery, unconnected with the distal end, and has been laid open by incision so as to show a white fibrinous coagu- lum in situ. Apparently, the two ends had not yet grown toge- ther after separation of the ligature. In each of the two examples just presented the ligature came away in less than ten days. But the time required for the disengagement of a silk, or flax, or hempen thread will vary in almost every case, according to the size of the vessel and the amount and kind of the extraneous tissues embraced in the noose, from three clays to three weeks. The removal of ligatures may be hastened by gently pull- ing upon the ends which project from the wound. All that remain after eight or nine days should be treated in this manner at every dressing of the wound. The principal drawback to the use of the kinds of thread mentioned above for ligatures, and, indeed, to the employ- ment of all permanent ligatures, is the fact that they must Fig. 389. n Showing the common carotid artery perma- nently occluded, and the coalescence of its ends after separation of the ligature, ten days after ligation. (Spec. 3409. Sect. I. A. M. M.) which entered the below the left eye. Fig. 390. Showing the proximal end of the left common carotid artery after se- paration of the ligature, ten days after ligation. Externally, the end ap- pears irregularly round- ed, and its mouth is closed hy the process of healing. Internally, it is completely plugged hy a white fibrinous clot. (Spec. 508. Sect. I. A. M. M.) 1 Med. and Surg. Hist. War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 393. 2 Ibid., p. 396 ; also, Catalogue of Army Med. Musem, p. 460.