155 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OP ARTERIES. The axillary artery may possibly be torn across in striving to reduce dislo- cations of the shoulder, in such manner that the bleeding may spontaneously cease, that the extravasated blood may undergo absorption, and that a cure may thus ensue, without operative interference. I believe that this fortu- nate* occurrence is exemplified by the history of the following case:— Professor H. B. Sands1 was called to a lady, aged 86, seven or eight weeks after her right shoulder had been dislocated downward. Soon afterward it had been reduced. About ten days later, however, the dislocation was reproduced, and it remained in that state until Professor Sands’s visit. The patient was etherized, and a very moderate effort was made at reduction. While arranging for a second attempt, five or six minutes subsequently, Dr. Sands thought he perceived a swelling in the axilla. He removed the sheet; it was very apparent that a bloodvessel had given way; there was a quite rapid in- crease of the swelling in the axillary region, and it was very soon as large as the head of a child at term. There was no pulsation in the radial, ulnar, or brachial artery. No- thing in the wray of treatment was done, except to place the arm by the side and apply a bandage ; but within half an hour the skin of the axilla had begun to show discolora- tion, and within a few hours the discoloration was very marked, and extended up to the shoulder. The patient was excessively prostrated by the accident, and at one time it seemed not improbable that she would die from syncope. Hypodermic injections of brandy were given, and brandy by the mouth as soon as it could be swallowed, but she remained in a very low condition for some time, especially at night. In the course of the next day after the accident, the extravasation gave signs of its presence quite distinctly, upon the side of the chest; and afterwards it could readily be seen on the side of the trunk as low as the pelvis. The discoloration behind covered nearly the entire scapular region. There was neither fluctuation nor murmur over the extravasation. There had been gradual improvement, and although pulsation had not returned in any of the arteries, the limb itself presented no unfavorable appearance. The patient made no special complaint, excepting a very uncomfortable tingling, at times along the distribution of the ulnar nerve. Professor Sands thought that no vessel except the axillary artery was ruptured, was surprised that the rupture should occur from the use of so little force, and was gratified at an unexpected recovery from so dangerous an accident. The rapidity and copiousness with which the blood was effused in this case indicate that some large vessel was opened; the disappearance or cessation of the pulse in the radial, ulnar, and brachial arteries, together with the site of the tumefaction itself, shows that the axillary artery was the vessel ruptured. And, were the axillary artery completely torn across in this case, it was quite within the range of possibility for the ragged ends to become permanently closed by the contraction and retraction of the torn tunics of the artery, sup- plemented by the formation of a conical plug from coagulum in each end thereof, which would become organized. The natural haemostasis in such cases is, no doubt, aided considerably by fastening the arm to the trunk with a broad roller. The swellings appearing suddenly in the axilla during attempts to reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint, which the French surgeons formerly called tumeurs aeriennes, and which usually ended in recovery without opera- tion, were not unfrequently due to rupture of the axillary artery. The fol- lowing example of tumeur aerienne occurred in the practice of Desault:— A man, aged 60, came with a dislocation of a month and a half’s standing. The reduction was scarcely achieved when a tumor was suddenly seen to rise up under the great pectoral muscle, and extend itself towards the armpit, occupying finally its whole extent. The pulse on the affected side became scarcely perceptible, and the man fell into a syncope. Desault himself at first feared that the axillary artery was ruptured. Methodical pressure was applied to the swelling by means of compresses and a bandage, which, at the same time, kept the arm fixed against the trunk. That night, acute pain 1 Medical Record, January 10, 1880.