710 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. pound dislocations of the ankle are accidents of extreme gravity, as is well shown by the number of fatal cases which are on record. In deciding upon the course of treatment, we are to be guided to a certain extent by the statistics of the various plans which have been adopted. It is the danger to life, rather than the question of usefulness, which must chiefly guide us in determining what method to pursue. As to pure conservation, the majority of cases in which simple reduction has been practised, have resulted disastrously by suppuration and caries, leading to pysemia. Hence the precept has become pretty firmly established that primary amputation or excision should he performed. The perfection of antiseptic surgery has raised anew the question as to whether by very thor- ough drainage, with several large openings and daily, carbolized injections, conservative treatment might not be more successful, hut this question is as yet not settled. I am inclined to believe in the future success of this method, but it certainly cannot now be unhesitatingly recommended, from lack of experience. We could not usually expect from this conservative, antiseptic treatment much better results than from excision, since the joint would in most cases become anchylosed ; hence, unless much safer, the method would have little to recommend it. A choice of four methods of operation may be made in compound disloca- tions of the ankle-joint. These are :— (1) Syme’s amputation, (2) PirogofFs amputation, (3) Amputation at the lower third of the leg, (4) Excision. The relative dangers of these operations may best be shown by introducing here the following table of cases from the author’s work on the mortality of surgical operations, and from Dr. Culbertson’s well-known monograph.1 Operation. Cases. Died. Mortality PER CENT. Syme’s amputation Pirogoff’s amputation 325 30 9 130 24 18 Amputation at lower third of leg (traumatic) 148 48 32 Excision of ankle (exclusive of gunshot wounds) 152 19 12 Of these operations, it will be seen that Syme’s amputation is the first, and excision the next, in order of safety. The latter preserves the foot in such a perfect condition that many prefer it, as I do myself, in spite of the appa- rent, slightly-increased danger. In point both of danger and of injury to the limb, the amputation at the lower third of the leg is the most objectionable of all, and ought never to be resorted to, save where there is great destruction of the tissues below. In ordinary practice, the percentage of mortality will be found less than in the above statistics, which include a large number of cases from the hospitals of Vienna and Paris, where a fearful mortality accompanies all surgical operations. Dislocations of the Bones of the Foot. Dislocation of the Astragalus.—As distinguished from dislocation of the whole tarsus, this is said to occur when the astragalus is driven both from its tarsal and from its tibial articulation. By Malgaigne, this was termed a double dislocation. The displacement may be forward, backward, inward. 1 Transactions of the American Medical Association, 1876. Supplement.