512 ANEURISM. Ligature of the subclavian artery in its terminal division, for aneurism of the same tract of the vessel, would, at once, strike the surgical pathologist as a very hopeless procedure, (see p. 490), and we find that in the five cases in which this has been attempted, death resulted in three,1 a mortality of sixty per cent. But if the aneurism he subclavio-axillary, and do not reach as high as the border of the scaleni, a better prospect is afforded.2 Thus, for such disease, the vessel has been tied over the first rib twenty-eight times, with sixteen recoveries and twelve deaths; hemorrhage was the fatal complication in five cases. The small number of cases in which the second part of the subclavian artery has been tied for aneurism, is probably due to an exaggerated idea of the difficulties of the operation. I cannot but think that this deligation might, with advantage, be substituted for that of the third part in a large number of cases, since, as already pointed out, the vessel is less often diseased at the spot where it is supported by the muscles, than elsewhere, and usually only one branch is given off from that part. I can find only nine cases of this procedure, with but four recoveries and five deaths. In analyzing the causes of death we find that only one patient died of secondary hemorrhage (Liston), and one of cerebral complications, the cause being obscure; two cases of diffused traumatic aneurism3 terminated fatally by pyaemia, and one patient died of drunkenness when nearly recovered (Gay). Thus four deaths out of the five may be considered as not intimately connected with the operation, and we may, therefore, regard them as almost fortuitous. We.have still to record seven cases in which the aneurismal sac so covered the artery that it could not be reached without exposing the patient to un- justifiable danger. Of these cases of commenced, but abandoned, operation, five ended in death ; one was followed by cure (probably the result of manipu- lation) ; of one, the result is unknown. Leligation of the first part of the subclavian artery, or of the termination of the innominate, is an operation which the surgeon would only undertake under very pressing circumstances; indeed, high authorities have pronounced it unjustifiable. But that judgment was given, and the experience whereon it was founded was acquired, before the modern improvements in the material of ligatures had been introduced. I should not, in a suitable case, decline to tie either of these vessels, although the statistics of the past (had we still to rely on silk or hemp), would, undoubtedly, deter me from any such under- taking.4 These statistics are as follows: eleven patients have been subjected to this operation, of whom every one died—one from pericarditis, pleurisy, and pyaemia, and nine from hemorrhage, the cause of death in the eleventh (Arendt’s) case being unknown. In a twelfth case (McGill’s), in which the artery was compressed with torsion forceps, death resulted from a wound of the pleura. The bleeding in the nine cases referred to took place from the distal part of the vessel, that is to say, from beyond the ligature. Thus it appears that free collateral circulation keeps the part of the vessel on the further side of the heart open, so that when the artery is ulcerated through, blood passing along the branches, enters the trunk, and makes its exit from the peripheral end of the severed vessel. For this reason Liston and Cuvillier 1 One of Mr. Poland’s cases was in reality a deligation of the second part, and I find, since the date of his papers, another case similarly incorrectly classified. 2 The difficulty of determining, before exposing the artery, the exact height at which such disease may stop, is undoubted; after laying the vessel bare, however, the surgeon has the choice of placing his ligature behind the scalenus. 3 In reality a wound of the artery; it is the comparative absence of hemorrhage, that very fatal result of more central operations, on which I would especially rely as supporting the re- commendation given in the text. 4 The method of performance is given at p. 513.