283 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. Treatment of Parenchymatous Hemorrhage.—The primary and inter- mediary forms of parenchymatous hemorrhage can almost always be promptly suppressed by applying the solution of the persulphate or the perchloride of iron to the bleeding surface, by means of a camel’s hair brush, or a piece of lint, as already shown above. In the absence of these styptics, it is highly probable that the primary and intermediary forms of parenchymatous hemor- rhage, in open wounds, may be arrested by the application of hot water to the bleeding surface. To be of use the water must be hot enough to coagu- late albumen, that is, its temperature must be not less than 160° Fahr. Should this proceeding fail, the actual cautery may be necessary. When parenchymatous hemorrhage occurs in the secondary period, in con- sequence of thrombosis and pyaemia, there is but little hope of saving the patient. If the application of styptics and pressure does not stop the hemor- rhage, the surgeon may amputate the bleeding member, or tie its main artery. Upon this point Stromeyer says: “A single amputation, practised on this account, proved rapidly fatal; the ligature of the chief artery had but tem- porary success; the extraction of extensive loosened sequestra sometimes effected a temporary stoppage of the hemorrhage, but death followed from pyaemia.”1 The results of my own experience in this regard are no better. In some cases, doubtless, it is preferable to amputate; in others, to tie the main artery. If the patient be not already much reduced by systemic dis- ease, and especially if pyaemia has not yet appeared, it is better to amputate; but if the patient be very low, or affected with pyaemia, it is better to liga- ture the main artery. When parenchymatous hemorrhage results from venereal excitation or ■excess in drinking, the bleeding may be promptly suppressed by the applica- tion of iced water or of the acid salts of iron, in solution, to the part whence it proceeds. The main point, however, in the treatment of such cases, is to prevent a recurrence of the hemorrhage by meeting the causal indication, that is, by removing or making inoperative the causes which produce it. Scorbutic parenchymatous hemorrhage must be treated by freely adminis- tering antiscorbutic remedies, such as the juice of scurvy-grass, limes, and lemons, together with acidulous fruits and fresh vegetables for food, as well as milk and the juice of raw beef. Deligation of Arteries. The instruments required for the ligation of arteries or veins, in their con- tinuity, arqi a scalpel, forceps, grooved director, silver probes, artery-needles, and ligatures. The ordinary scalpel (Fig. 460) is best adapted to the dissection, and the broad, thin, end of its handle can he employed to separate the connective tissue, the layers of fascia, and other parts, where it is not desirable to use the cutting edge. The forceps (Fig. 461) should have delicate, accurately-fitting teeth, and the blades, while not too broad, should be so stiff* as not to bend when closed and locked, on making traction. Hot unfrequently, a second 1 Gunshot Fractures, p. 35, Am. ed., 1862.