661 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. of the hone, and a corresponding lifting into prominence of the coracoid and acromion processes. The clavicle slopes decidedly more downward than its normal fellow, and its acromial end is felt projecting into the axilla. The small number of recorded cases of this injury, deprives us of any very copious knowledge of the results of treatment. In most instances the dislocation has been reduced by having an assistant pull the shoulder backward and outward, while the surgeon has grasped the bone, and has sought by manipulation to disengage it from under the coracoid process. Pinjon tried this method in vaiii, and the patient had the dislocation reduced next day by an empiric. It has been suggested, with some show of reason, that, instead of pulling the arm outward and backward as above recommended, thus putting the pectoralis major upon the stretch and causing it to resist the desired movement, it would be better to keep the elbow against the side, and pull the humerus outward by the hands in the axilla. Hamilton is of the opinion that this curious sub- coracoid dislocation, the belief in which rests solely upon the evidence of two surgeons, is wholly a fictitious injury, and an attempt at deception practised for the sake of notoriety. Simultaneous Dislocation op Both Ends op the Clavicle.—This rare form of luxation is said to have occurred in a few cases. Such an injury, in a person not otherwise fatally hurt, might be reduced in accordance with the rules already given for the separate luxations. Dislocations op the Shoulder. Owing to the anatomy of the joint, which fits it for very free motion rather than for secure repose, the shoulder is dislocated with great frequency. The main features of the accident are well agreed upon, but there are certain varieties of position and peculiarities of injury, which are yet matters of dispute among authors. American surgeons, who are still greatly influenced by Sir Astley Cooper’s teachings, generally admit complete luxation in three directions, viz.: downward, forward, and backward, and with the frequency in the order named. Partial dislocations, so called, are usually examples of faulty diagnosis, though such injuries do occur. It is possible that the force causing the accident may cease when the head of the bone has only partly rent its way through the capsule, and that thus the part may be held in a tight ligamentous grasp, without having fully escaped from the glenoid cavity. These cases are, however, very rare. Frequently the long tendon of the biceps is ruptured, and, a part of the ante- rior retaining force being thus removed, the head of the bone is pushed somewhat forward, and gives a false impression of partial dislocation. The inflammation and thickening of the anterior portion of the capsular liga- ment, by increasing the prominence, adds to the delusive appearance. Frac- tures of the border of the glenoid cavity may also give rise to slight dis- placements simulating partial dislocation. It is said that, in spite of assertions to the contrary, a true partial dislocation forward occurs, in con- sequence of the bone slipping forward to the coracoid process, and the biceps tendon gliding back behind the head of the humerus, and by its tension hold- ing it forward against the coracoid, although the anatomy of the parts is such that the head could never rest in this position except for the support of the displaced tendon behind. Old dislocations of the shoulder have generally been considered irreducible at the end of three months, but many instances of success have been recorded at later periods. Still, great care must be exercised in these cases, for fatal