687 DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP. bone in its socket, to which the previous manipulations have made the way clear for its entrance. The thigh is now directed nearly perpendicularly to the plane of the body, and is laid somewhat across the sound limb, with the foot drawn outward, away from the median line, by the hand, which grasps the ankle. Let it be remembered that however simple each step of the man- ipulation may seem, it is absolutely essential to the success of the procedure. If with the limb thus flexed, adducted, and rotated inward, gentle traction now be made, the head of the bone will come into a position directly over the acetabulum, and be ready to glide into its socket. But it is not yet re- duced. The rest of the manipulations are as essential to success as any which have preceded them. A false move would throw the head again upon the ilium, but the right one will replace it. To insure this, the movements given the limb are exactly the counterpart of those which have preceded them. By one rapid movement the surgeon abducts, rotates outward, and extends the limb, or, in other words, carries the knee outward and the foot inward, and lays the limb upon the bed. Reduction is accomplished. The ease with which this takes place is surprisingly in contrast with the enormous force required to reduce a luxated hip by traction in the extended position. Sometimes more resistance is encountered than merely enough to lift the limb, but it is never great. This difference depends mainly upon the size in the rent which has been made through the capsule. Occasionally this is so small as of itself to make some resistance to the head of the bone in its return. In that step of the manipulation, where traction is required, it may be effected by the hand of the surgeon placed behind the knee, drawing gently in the direction of the axis of the femur, or by giving the limb a forcible jerk upward toward the ceiling; or the operator may obtain a still stronger pull upon it by hooking his elbow below the knee. In case the first attempt fails, the manipulation may be repeated, slightly varying the angles of flexion and adduction. The attempt may be repeated several times, and it usually effects a reduction if persisted in, if not at the first attempt. "Where greater traction is required in the estimation of the surgeon, greater force may be obtained by the following plan: Removing his shoe, let him place his foot upon some firm point, such as the anterior superior iliac-spine, or the pubis, to give opportunity for counter-extension, and to steady the pelvis while the traction is being made. The steps of the manipulation are then to be taken precisely as before, except as to the changed position of the sur- geon in grasping the limb. Instead of relying upon his hands alone, the operator may employ a jack-towel from the thigh around his shoulders, leav- ing only the twisting and other movements to the hands, while the pull is exerted by leaning backwards. It is only in rare cases that anything more than the unaided hands is required in the traction method of manipulation. Before resorting to more force, the manipulation should be repeated with thoroughness to make certain that the trouble does not lie in its faulty exe- cution, rather than in the need of more powerful extension. Every pure dorsal luxation could probably be reduced by the simple method first described, were surgeons not too hasty in giving up the trial. Where it does fail from wrong execution or any cause, it is better not to in- crease the traction enormously—which would be, in fact, a return to the obso- lete methods—but to make use of the other form of manipulation, the rotation method, which will be described present^. This will furnish power enough to reduce the bone with unfailing certainty. Should it be determined to employ more force in traction, however, this must be obtained without recourse to the pulleys, or any mechanical aid re- quiring a fixed attachment. These prevent flexion and adduction. A strip