INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 96 with a slide-catch for fastening the blades together when closed; the vessel must then be separated from the surrounding parts with other forceps, or with a small knife, until it becomes entirely isolated. Next, the artery must be seized with the second forceps, or with the fingers of the left hand, at the point where it emerges from the surrounding soft parts, and held firmly fixed. Fig. 393. Showing Amussat’s plan of making torsion. The artery is then to be turned round on its own axis, or twisted with the- first forceps, until the end is torn off, when the bleeding will be certainly stopped. Below the fixed part no blood is found in the tube of the artery.. If no forceps be at hand, the artery, in urgent cases, may, as was proposed by Galen, be pierced with a needle or with a nail, and so twisted round. Torsion performed by this method is called limited torsion. A very ingenious instrument for the torsion of arteries has been devised by Dr. Addinell Hewson (Fig. 394), which combines, in one, the two forceps. employed by Amussat and others. Fig. 394. Hewson’s artery torsion forceps. The advantages claimed for torsion are the following: (1) The facility with' which it can be performed. In reply, I may say that I have seen as much time consumed in twisting an articular branch in the arm, before the bleed- ing could be stayed (and that, too, by one entirely familiar with the work), as would have sufficed for an amputation and all the subsequent dressings. by the old method; and, further, that I have seen it fail altogether in more than one instance, compelling a resort to the ligature before the rebellious artery could be secured. The use of anaesthetics has, moreover, in great measure, re- moved the necessity for excessive haste in operating. (2) Greater safety is claimed for torsion. I am not aware that we possess the means for making any extended comparisons between this and other methods, but my own observa- tion furnishes instances in which secondary hemorrhage followed torsion even of sound vessels, a circumstance which is, I think, rarely met with after ligation. (3) It is said that by torsion the healing is facilitated, because of the wound’s being free from all irritating or foreign bodies. Yet the end of the twisted artery, comminuted and bruised, frequently separates as a slough, and becomes . as much a foreign body as a ligature. The experience of both Velpeau and Manec shows not only this, but also that the healing after torsioh is as slow as the healing after the ligature; indeed, according to the authority last named, it is even more tedious (Agnew). That large arteries, such as-the femoral, brachial, etc., have been safely treated by torsion, is no doubt true;.