PROGRESS OF ANEURISM. 401 symptoms may succeed each other hy degrees, or may all he crowded into an hour or two, according to the extent of the rupture. Rupture into an Abscess.—Inflammation and suppuration of the parts sur- rounding an aneurism are by no means uncommon ; they may be traumatic, may originate in over-exertion, or may arise spontaneously—simply from the pressure of the tumor. Inflammation from the last-mentioned cause rarely occurs in an aneurism situated amid lax areolar tissue, but if the tumor press upon more irritable and more resistant parts, such as muscles, nerves, synovial membranes, and more especially the skin, even a moderate-sized aneurism may set up surrounding inflammation f therefore an abscess super- ficial to the sac is not very uncommon, and is the complication which probably has most frequently led to infelicitous incision. The inflammation is not always confined to adjacent parts; it probably may sometimes originate in the sac, but more often attacks it simultaneously with, or soon after, its commencement in other structures, causing it to soften, together with the clot, which more or less slowly breaks down into a spongy, barely consis- tent pulp. Hence if such an abscess be opened or break, the discharge may at first be pure pus ; but after a few hours or a few days, staining of a brownish purple, and the discharge of dark flocculi, will follow, and then a gush of bright arterial blood. Sometimes, if the aneurism have contained but little clot, the flow of blood occurs without warning. Sometimes the abscess breaks into the aneurism, or the aneurism into the abscess, before the occurrence of any opening through the skin f the pyogenic membrane may then not be firm enough to resist the pressure, which will still further inflame the already affected skin, and external rupture, if the case be left to itself, will, under such circumstances, be only a question of a few hours. Suppuration of the Sac is a name commonly used to indicate that the aneu- rism itself is primarily and principally affected; probably it is not quite accurate, or rather does not express the whole truth, as surrounding parts are in all probability involved. Every aneurism in which blood has undergone passive clotting, is in some danger of suppuration (see p. 408), but there is no doubt that Broca and his immediate followers somewhat exaggerated its frequency.1 * 3 When this accident occurs, the tumor, which already has hardened and has ceased to pulsate (from the formation of clot), becomes very tense, as also very painful and tender, with a sensation as of a tendency of something within the limb to burst. It is curious that, although the patient may have had no sense of pulsation while it was present, he will now feel a painful throb- bing in the non-pulsatile tumor. These local symptoms are accompanied by considerable pyrexia, rigors, foul tongue, etc. After a few days the tumor, which has been abnormally hard, becomes diffused and softer. The termina- tion depends upon whether the artery is and w ill remain sealed: if this be the case, an abscess containing broken down clots as well as pus results; if the vessel be or become patent, the mixture of abscess and ruptured aneurism occurs, as just described. A small rupture of a non-suppurating aneurism gives rise to no violent or very urgent symptoms; faintness, etc., very slight and transient, succeeds, and accompanies some pain, and a more or less localized swelling of the limb; but the tumor itself loses its definite outline, and ceases to pulsate; and generally, and more particularly if the patient walk about and take exercise, some of 1 The absorption of bone lias been already alluded to ; the pain so often accompanying this process points to its inflammatory nature. 8 The symptoms of such a condition are given at p. 396. Many forms of treatment, now frequently used, cure by producing passive clot, and that with- out the frequent occurrence of suppuration. VOL. III.—-26