SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 346 involved. In other words, out of 16 cases in which the condition of the arteries was noted, in 15 these vessels were diseased. The author says that the condition of the aorta and large vessels as regards atheroma is of importance in connection with the dependence of aneurism upon syphilis, and that as regards the smaller vessels, the nature of the disease of the cerebral arteries is of the greatest interest. In the cases heretofore noted in the table, where the kidneys were diseased, the effect of syphilis in producing the atheroma might be questioned. In three females (cases 5, 16, and 19), aged 23, 25, and 25, there was marked atheroma of the aorta. In one, the atheroma was general in the aorta and its larger branches, the condi- tion being that of diffused, irregular swelling, with but little fatty degenera- tion. The kidneys in this case were structurally healthy. In one female, aged 25, in the first part of the arch of the aorta were several patches, rounded, prominent in the centre, and thicker than usual. On section these appeared homogeneous, and presented scarcely any fatty degeneration. Throughout the rest of the aorta there was general atheroma with no peculiar characters. In another female, aged 35, there were large patches of endar- teritis deformans in the abdominal aorta. In this case there was lardaceous degeneration of the kidneys. In several other cases there was marked atheroma, and in most cases where there was no renal disease the patches were much raised, sometimes almost hemispherical, at other times with sharply defined edges of gelatinous appear- ance and pearly lustre; and on section there was but little fatty degeneration or calcification. Whether in these cases the disease would have gone on to the formation of aneurism, cannot of course be decided; but it is evident that a marked tendency to the occurrence of endarteritis deformans at an early age, and in an advanced degree, exists in visceral syphilis. This is especially noticed upon comparing the condition, in these cases, with that in a large number of other patients of the same age who have died from all forms of disease, when it is found that in no others was any atheroma observed apart from the coex- istence of very marked renal disease. It is probable that the absence of cases of aneurism from this series is purely accidental, for in a number of other cases Dr. Greenfield has found very marked syphilitic visceral disease in cases of aneurism occurring at an early age. The cerebral arteries were very markedly affected with syphilitic disease in five cases, and in a six;th were probably diseased. As to the pathological changes which syphilitic arteritis causes, they are given by Dr. Greenfield in two cases of disease of the cerebral arteries. The specimens were taken from the middle cerebral and basilar arteries. They are typical and probably represent two different stages of the process. “In the first case the disease is seen in the earlier form, in which it consists almost entirely of a cell-growth which has as yet undergone but little orga- nization. In the second case considerable changes have occurred, and a large part of the new growth is converted into more or less fully developed con- nective tissue. In the specimen sketched in Fig. 522, the artery is geen to be somewhat irregular in shape, this being due to obliquity of the section. The lumen (a) is very small, but is clearly defined, rounded, and free from thrombus. The outer coat appears somewhat thickened, and is infiltrated in continuity with the pia mater (/). The muscular coat (d) is distinctly seen at the upper and lower parts of the section, elsewhere being somewhat infiltrated, and not clearly separated from the adventitia. The fenestrated membrane is clearly seen at 5, where it is indicated by the dark lines; it could be clearly traced on altering the focus, all around the vessel, lying as usual immediately internal