595 TUMORS OF NERVES. the skin is thickened. The tumor is constituted of hypertrophied, tortuous nerve-trunks, bound together by connective tissue. ' The connective-tissue hypertrophy surrounds the nervous element, and may cause it to disappear; this form of tumor may thus gradually become assimilated to a fibroma. In a case of plexiform neuroma recorded by Winiwarter, there were at the same time a development of diffuse fibromata in the nerves, with formation of new nerve-fibres, and, in a part of the tumor, the formation of a sarcoma at the expense of the nerve-trunks. R. Marchand, in 1878, in a Memoir upon the Plexiform Neuroma, said that this name might be replaced by that of cylindrical fibroma of the nerve-sheaths. According to this author there is no multiplication of nerve-fibres, which, on the contrary, undergo atrophy or disappear. Finally, quite recently (1882), in the Society of Surgery of Paris, after the presentation by M. L. Labbe, of a patient who was considered to have an elephantiasis of the face, a discussion arose as to the nature of the tumor. Yerneuil regarded it as a plexiform neuroma; Trelat, as a degenerated, con- genital erectile tumor; Despres, relying upon the observations of Ollard, con- sidered it a soft elephantiasis; G-ueniot recalled the fact that he had presented, under the name of “ hypertrophic nsevus,” a tumor which had the same appearance, and which had been found to be constituted of the elements of the skin and of the cellulo-adipose tissue. As will be seen, it is difficult to decide definitively the place in nosology which should be occupied by the variety of tumor described under the name of plexiform neuroma. The alteration of the skin had led some authors to consider the neuroma as a primary lesion of the integument, extending secondarily to the nerves of the region; but as Cartaz points out, the inverse hypothesis, that of a primary hypertrophy of the nerves and secondary implication of the neigh- boring tissues, may also be sustained. If anatomical examination has given different results in different cases, this is owing to the tumors having been examined at different periods of their development, the nerve-elements un- dergoing atrophy and disappearing in consequence of the growth of the connective tissue. The position here assigned to the plexiform neuroma, between the true neuroma and the nerve-tumors originating in the connective tissue, seems then justifiable, at least for the present. The plexiform neuromata are quite often indolent, congenital tumors, of slow development; most surgeons who have observed them recognize the necessity of their removal, on account of their progressive development and of the possibility of their degeneration, as in Winiwarter’s case. From twenty-eight cases of plexiform neuroma collected by Poinsot, it is found that the frequency of the lesion continues to increase from birth to the age of twenty years ; it then diminishes, and does not again increase until from forty to fifty years. These tumors are not the seat of any pain. II. Tumors formed at the expense of the Connective Tissue of the Nerve.—Besides neuromata, there are found in the nerves several varieties of tumor which have their origin in the connective tissue; these are fibro- mata, sarcomata, and myxomata ; Virchow has added gliomata, or sarcomata of the neuroglia, the connective tissue of the nerve-centres, and telangiectasic neuromata, in which the vessels of the tumor occupy a predominant place. The frequence and variety of the connective-tissue tumors, are explained by the abundance and varied forms of this tissue met with in the nerves. The nerves are surrounded by the neurilemma, a connective-tissue sheath which isolates them at the same time that it unites them to the neighboring tissues,