487 AXILLARY ANEURISM. other end an oval pad. The shank, which is cylindrical, consists of two tubes, the one sliding within the other; they are kept from colliding by insertion within the tube of a strong spiral spring; the arrangement mitigating the rigidity and harshness of pressure, renders it somewhat more bearable. The compressor must extend beyond the patient’s head, so that when he places the pad of the instrument on the proper spot, and leans a little forward, some of his bodily weight may impinge upon the vessel. The use of an anaesthetic will be very generally desirable, for proximity of large nerve trunks renders the treatment excessively painful. All the more, therefore, because the patient is unconscious, must the surgeon be cautious; injury to the vessel—eschar—even suppuration produced at this place—would be most detrimental, since the region available for this, and in case of its failure for any other method of treatment, is very small. Although few cases of attempts to cure axillary aneurism by pressure have been recorded, I am aware of its having been frequently attempted. Some statistics have been already given: I find that among hospital cases, in the last ten years, five only are recorded as having been thus treated; of these, one (Cooper Forster) was successful, and one other doubtfully so; in one, the arm was paralyzed, and remained useless when seen many months afterwards. Distal and direct pressure have not proved of any avail in the treatment of axillary aneurism. Galvano-puncture, or the injection of the per chloride of iron, might be tried in desperate cases, that is, where circumstances forbade the use of the ligature. Ligation of Third Part of Subclavian Artery.—The subclavian artery in its third part is, in many cases, very easy to tie, and that with a very slight loss of blood—less indeed than may follow a tooth extraction ; in other cases, although the vessel may be reached with facility, it is difficult to get a liga- ture around it. The method whereby this ease and bloodlessness may be attained is as follows: The patient should be placed on his back, with his shoulders somewhat raised, his head thrown a little back, and his arm sepa- rated at about a half right angle from his side. The surgeon places himself between the trunk and the arm, and notes well the place where the sterno-mas- toid arises from the clavicle, and the somewhat variable position of the ex- ternal jugular vein; then, placing his left hand on the larger pectoral, he draws down the integuments, and passes his knife along the clavicle, from an inch outside its sternal end to the insertion of the trapezius.1 The skin is now to be -relaxed, when the line of incision rises above the clavicle. The external jugular vein generally lies near the inner corner of this wound, and may be guarded from danger by holding it with a retractor against the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Should it be further outward, the best and safest course is to free it from the fascia, tie it in two places, and divide I it between the ligatures.2 The incision is now to be placed so that its lower margin lies just below the upper border of the clavicle, along which the knife is to be drawn as one draws a pencil along a ruler, taking care to sink the instrument to only half the depth of the bone. By this means the strong layer of fascia that runs from the sterno-mastoid to the trapezius is divided. After this—and herein lies the difference in my teaching from that of other operators—no further use of the knife need be made: the structures which lie between the fibrous covering of the posterior triangle and the vessel are so loose and fragile, that they may, as a very general rule, be torn and pushed 1 A branch from the cephalic vein may run across the line of incision, and be divided ; it is sometimes rather large, and bleeds pretty smartly—if so, it should be tied. 2 It is not so much the bleeding from this vein that is to be feared, as the possibility that air may enter the lower orifice if it be unwittingly cut across.