586 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. or several days, etc. When these pains come very close together, the patients feel disturbed, and there is a more or less intense anxiety, with insomnia, while the general state may end by being changed and presenting a kind of acquired nervousness. Sometimes the pains diminish, or even disappear, when the patient is engaged in important or forced occupations. These remittent pains have foci where they remain fixed during the same paroxysm, or during a part of its duration ; at other times they are accompanied by painful irradia- tions. In other cases the foci change their seat, and move either towards the toots of the nerves (ascending neuralgia of1 Cotugno), or, more fre- quently, towards their extremities. In a word, the change of place of the foci does not follow the law which directs the propagation of the peripheral impressions; it does not generally follow the direction of the nervous influ- ence ; though we know, it is true, from the experiments of Bert, that the sensory nerves are capable of transmitting impressions in both directions. It has been said, following Yalleix, that these foci are precisely the seats of pain ('points douloureux) which are revealed by pressure; but although this may be true for a great number of cases, it is not always so. In regard to the location of the darting pains, this varies; sometimes the darting is felt in the affected part; sometimes it takes the form of flashes (lightning pains), which follow the course of a nerve branch; sometimes there are several painful irradiations starting from the same pbint. Pain upon Pressure.—Pressure exerted by a large surface, such as the palm of the hand, generally allays the pain; by pressing with the point of the finger, on the other hand, there is brought out along the course of the nerve, at one or several points, a pain which is at times very sharp; if the pressure is repeated, however, only a very slight pain is ultimately caused. Pressure exasperates the continuous pain, and occasionally determines an explosion of the darting pains. According to Valleix, the points douloureux are at the points of emergence of the nerve-trunks; at the points where they become superficial; at the points where the nerve-filaments traverse the muscles or the aponeuroses j and at the points where the nerve-branches are finally distributed to the' integument. The same author thought that the pain of neuralgia affected exclusively the subcutaneous nerves, or those of tactile sensibility; but pres- sure over the deep nerves is often painful. The points painful to pressure {points douloureux) are frequently absent. Trousseau proposed to substitute for them spinous points {points apophysaires),1 but they have nothing characteristic in neuralgia, not even in intercostal neuralgia, where they may be wanting. The number of painful points over the course of a nerve varies in each case. They may be one or two centimetres [half or three-quarters of an inch] in diameter; sometimes their boundaries are very distinctly circumscribed, at other times more diffused. The intensity of the pain on pressure is, gene- rally, in relation to that of the spontaneous pain. Not only pressure, but efforts and movements of the patient, and the contact of hot or cold bodies, bring back the darting pains. Concomitant Symptoms.—During the paroxysms, there may be observed, injection of the affected parts, congestion, increase of the secretions (mucus, tears, sweat, etc.), cutaneous hypersesthesia or anaesthesia, and convulsive movements {tic douloureux)', if any paralysis appears, it is because'there is a grave lesion of the nerve. Besides these local disturbances, there may be experienced general sensa- 1 [The spinous points of Trousseau are situated over the spinous processes of the vertebrae, corre- sponding to the point of exit of the nerve from the intervertebral foramen. ]