INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 590 the spinal cord? The surgeon should inquire whether the neuralgia has not as its point of origin a lesion situated outside of the nerve, in its neigh- borhood, or in a distant organ (reflex neuralgia). Is there, finally, simply an essential neuralgia—a painful neurosis of the sensory nerves ? (Hallopeau.) In these cases, the beginning is sudden, there is no continuous pain, nor pain on pressure; the dartings are of extreme severity and of short duration. (3) Finally, it will be necessary to endeavor to recognize the nature of the neuralgia—the nature of the lesion which determines its production. Is the patient arthritic, rheumatic, or gouty ? Is there a complication of chlor- ansemia, malaria, syphilis, or certain chrohic poisonings, etc. ? By such in- quiries it can be ascertained whether the neuralgia is or is not dependent upon a general, constitutional condition. Prognosis of Neuralgia.—The prognosis varies with the variety of the neu- ralgia and with its cause. It is gravest in neuralgias of central origin, and where there are positive nerve-lesions; the neuralgia may under such circum- stances be persistent and even incurable. Neuralgias from congestion are less serious, though occasionally they are very persistent; all neuralgias are of this character in old, feeble, and neuropathic individuals. Neuralgias are subject to frequent relapses, especially when they are de- pendent upon constitutional conditions. Syphilitic and malarial neuralgias are the most amenable to treatment. Treatment.—Three indications are to be fulfilled: (1) To combat the gen- eral constitutional state;'(2) To combat the local nerve lesion; and (3) To combat the pain. (1) General Medication.—This addresses itself to the nature of the neuralgia, which is often, as we have seen, dependent upon a general, constitutional con- dition. This condition must be modified, if it is wished to obtain the disap- pearance of the neuralgic attack, and to prevent the recurrence of new at- tacks. General medication has often succeeded when all other measures have failed. Moreover, when it is indicated, care should be taken to employ it at the very beginning of the treatment. The medication varies according to the nature of the constitutional state, according as there is arthritism, malaria, syphilis, etc. In addition to this general medication, some general rules of hygiene must be enforced: a non-exciting diet; abstinence from cofiee, tea, and alcohol; mental repose; avoidance of sexual relations; exercise in the open air; hydrotherapeutie measures—anodyne baths, cold baths, sea baths, etc. The form of hydrotherapy to be employed, and the nature of the baths, will vary according to the general conditions; warm and cold douches, tran- sition douches, vapor baths, fumigations, hot-air baths, Moorish baths, etc. (2) At the same time that general remedies are administered, it is necessary to control the local nerve-changes. Surgical interference is necessary at the very beginning if there is a mechanical cause, such as the presence of a foreign body, or compression and irritation of the nerve by an exostosis, by callus (in which case the inclosed nerve must be released), by a cicatrix, or by a tumor of the nerve or of its neighborhood. If congestion, or if neuritis, exists by itself, or persists, cut-cups may be em- ployed, revulsives over the course of the nerve, blisters, irritant applications, the hot iron, cauterizations with sulphuric acid (which, however, must be used cautiously), local douches, filiform douches, etc. Aquapuncture has been recommended (Siredey), as have irritant hypodermic injections—injec-