522 ANEURISM. most it will be in the sinus of Valsalva. The probe is never in the axis of the aorta, but strikes the wall, be it of vessel or of ventricle, at a consider- able angle. There must, therefore, be a truer anatomical cause for this propensity of detached concreta. Solids within a stream, if not too heavy, go with the strongest current; hence we may infer that some subtle curve or slope of surfaces directs the most potent rush of the stream obliquely athwart the vessel, towards the orifice of the left carotid. Looking at the position of parts, it appears highly probable that this is really so. For the axis of the left ventricle is not in a line with that of the first part of the aorta, but, if prolonged from the apex through the centre of the orifice, falls upon and about the outer sinus of Valsalva, whose concavity appears well calculated to divert and reflect the blood-stream in the direction indicated. In this course the current would pass from the right aspect of the aortic, obliquely towards the carotid orifice ; it would occupy that portion of the trunk which in the diagram lies to the left of the whole probe (Fig. 546). Possibly the potent flow of blood in this direction is associated with the preponderance of the left brain and the right half of the body. Another matter must be pointed out, namely, the anatomical arrangement whereby each vessel is enabled to divert and gather from the general cur- rent in the aorta, that portion of the stream necessary for the supply of its own channels and branches. First, we see the great brachio-cephalic trunk •, then, be it observed, there is no interval between that and the left carotid. There is not, as is usually figured and imagined, between these two vessels a bit of transverse aorta, convex upward, but a mere angle, a sort of V-shaped double septum ; a rather wider angle separates the left subclavian from the carotid. If the lower part of the ascending aorta be severed from the rest, and we look along the tube of the transverse part, we do not see the orifices of the carotid and subclavian foreshortened into ovals, or mere slits, as would be the case if these vessels were given off straight and plumb from the parent stem. On the contrary, these openings face us directly, so that we seem to see right into the lumen of each branch, and chiefly into that of the carotid.1 This results from the mode of origin of these vessels. They are not given off straight and rectangularly from the transverse aorta, but their roots take a very oblique direction to the left, and then swerve more directly upwards; hence the distal margin of each vessel lies on a level considerably lower than the proximal. Each such margin has running from it, downward and to the right, on each side wall of the aorta, a rounded ridge, so arranged that the projection of the distal lip and twofold spur—in shape not unlike a half- funnel—catches the blood-stream as it courses along the main trunk, and directs each its own share into its special branch. The arrangement of these ridges is such that they divide all the upper aspect, and a considerable part of the side wall, of the aorta, into districts, one for each vessel. Hence an aneurism, unless it spring from the inferior, or concave wall, of the arch, must almost of necessity belong to the district of either one branch or the other (Fig. 547). In some bodies, however, the left carotid springs from the angle, as it were, between the aorta and innominate. In such instances, 1 In my article in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxii. p. 393 et seq., being anxious to accentuate the absence of foreshortening, I said, “ These openings look nearly round.” The expression was infelicitous. Every careful anatomist knows that the openings are not round ; their shape is different in different individuals. The general condition is that the inno- minate and subclavian openings are nearly semicircles, having their flat sides opposed at a con- siderable angle to each other, so that they are more widely separated in front than behind. In the wider part of this interval, and generally anterior to both the other orifices, is the opening of the left carotid, rhomboid in shape, and with its short end behind, so as pretty accurately to fit the above-described interval.