CONSTITUTIONAL SIGNS OF HEMORRHAGE. 58 Hemorrhagic Convulsions.—Animals that are bled to death usually exhibit bilateral spasms; so, too, in man, epileptiform convulsions are a direct conse- quence of sudden and copious loss of blood. Some persons are', by nature, much more strongly predisposed to the occurrence of convulsions from loss of blood than others; hence it happens that, in occasional instances, severe con- vulsions are caused by comparatively small losses of blood. These spasms, called by some convulsio syncopalis, are compared by many to those of epilepsy, and are generally considered to be epileptiform in character. The pulse at the wrist may continue deficient or barely perceptible throughout the fit, or it may return long before the close. Hemorrhagic convulsions are not of necessity fatal; generally they are not dangerous; and, for the most part, they yield to the same treatment as ordinary syncope. Great care, however, should always be taken to keep the patient’s head in a depressed position as long as they continue. The only fatal cases which I find mentioned by prac- titioners were of patients improperly treated by further depletion, or who were unwisely raised up into erect postures of body, whereupon syncope, without reaction, ensued. Great losses of blood also cause a pinched appearance of the face and a shrunken condition of the whole body, for the size of the organism is absolutely lessened by the amount of the blood abstracted from it; and the loss in bulk at the same time falls most heavily, or indeed almost entirely, on the soft parts exterior to the framework of the body. The pinched and ex- sanguinated appearance which the cadaver presents, in cases of death from hemorrhage, cannot be produced from any other known cause. The constitutional phenomena of hemorrhage, when it is excessive, are very strongly marked, and of themselves are quite sufficient to enable us to diagnosticate that condition with certainty, even in cases where the extrava- sation is wholly internal—for example, in the abdominal or thoracic cavity— and where no trace of blood appears on the exterior of the body. Some persons support the loss of blood much better than others. One adult may swoon on the abstraction of twenty ounces, another will bear the loss of more than forty ounces without swooning. Young and vigorous men may lose a great quantity of blood, and yet rally. Children bear the loss of blood badly, yet they rally quickly. In old age a slight hemorrhage is often of great importance, because the ability to rally is but small. Death from hemorrhage may occur suddenly upon the patient’s assuming or being placed in an erect posture, or upon raising up his head, or upon allowing his arms or legs to fall down from the couch; hence all such changes are to be repro- bated. Finally, there are fatal instances of hemorrhage in which death is due not so much to the quantity of blood that is lost, as to the association of terror, or of pre-existing disease, or to the influence of a suicidal purpose. After sudden and exhausting hemorrhages, especially those which are about to prove fatal unless transfusion be promptly employed, the injured arteries are sometimes seen lying in the wounds collapsed, and without exhibiting any signs of pulsation. It is because the waves of blood have not sufficient momentum imparted to them by the heart to reach the severed arteries. During the late war I several times noted this pulseless condition of wounded arteries after great losses of blood, and now, in looking back, I have no doubt that some of these cases might have been saved by the opera- tion of transfusion, if it could have been seasonably performed.