702 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. readily distinguished from the more rounded surface of the patella in its proper position. Treatment—In case of partial dislocation of the patella upon its axis, so that the bone stands upon one edge, the patient, after being anaesthetized to relax the quadriceps, should be placed with the leg in full extension, and etforts made to effect reduction with the hands. In case of failure, the knee should be forcibly bent and suddenly straightened, in order to loosen the bone from its impaction between the condyles, and then efforts should be repeated to bring it into proper position. If the head of a key, or some smooth ob- ject, be pressed in against the lower edge, while the hand pushes forcibly in the opposite direction against the projecting upper border, considerable advantage sometimes will be gained. In case of complete dislocation, reduction may be accomplished upon the same principles. Ascertain the direction of the torsion by examining the two edges of the patella, with the knee fully extended and the thigh somewhat raised, so as to relax the quadriceps. Then, by grasping and pushing one or other, or both, sides of the bone, as before, it may com- monly be replaced without much trouble. Should these manipulations prove unsuccessful, the surgeon would be justified in seizing.the bone in the jaws of a pair of sharp-toothed forceps (like lion-jawed forceps, but more slender-toothed), and by the aid of these turn- ing over the patella. Careful antiseptic precautions must be observed in this operation, since there is great liability for the points of one or more of the teeth of the forceps to enter the cavity of the capsule. Some authors recom- mend that the ligamentum patellae should be divided, and also the insertion of the extensor tendon, in order to facilitate the reduction in difficult cases. The operation has not met with much favor on account of the risk of sup- purative synovitis to which it subjects the patient. One case is recorded in which this occurred and proved fatal. Dr. J. B. Roberts, in his notes to Bryant’s Surgery, advocates the operation. Dislocations of the Knee-joint. Considering the great exposure of the knee to blows and other forms of violence, its dislocations are quite rare; in the vast majority of cases, the thigh or the leg will be fractured before the knee will yield. This immunity is not due to any peculiarity of the bony conformation, as in the case of the vertebrae, where fracture must nearly always take place before the bones can be disjointed, but to the uncommon size of the articulation and to its powerful ligaments. The existence of the crucial ligaments in the interior of the joint, and the great thickening of the capsule which at each side forms the lateral ligament, are the most important factors in resisting displacement. In de- scribing dislocations, we speak of the lower bone as the one luxated. The tibia may then be dislocated upon the femur, either backward, forward, inward, or outward. Backward Dislocation of the Tibia.—Causes.—Direct violence in the region of the knee is the usual cause of this injury. Symptoms.—The head of the tibia is found, upon examination, to be driven back toward the popliteal space, where it may be felt by the hand. In front,, there is a corresponding vacuity, and a depression immediately below the patella, on either side of the ligamentum patellae. The amount of shortening is not uniform. Usually, the leg is extremely extended, and the line of the tibia slopes forward, forming an obtuse angle with that of the femur. The ligaments are more or less torn, according to the extent of the displacement.