TUMORS OF NERVES. 599 variable bulk, and are not generally The seat of any pain. In other eases there occur disturbances of sensibility and motility. These have bfeen sum- marized, so to speak, in a case under my care for the past two years. A man, twenty-one years old, entered the Laennec Hospital during my service of June, 1880. At the age of nine years it had been noticed that he had upon the upper part of the right thigh a tumor of the size of an egg, and soon other very small tumors were seen upon the neck and thighs. In 1879, he had, without any known cause, an orchitis, which terminated in atrophy of the testicle. A few months after, the tumor of the thigh having increased, it was removed. It was considered to he of a fibro-plastic nature; but afterwards was recognized as having for its origin a nerve- tumor like those which existed in great number upon other parts of the body. The wound caused by the operation healed, but the disturbance of sensibility and motility remained. It was at this period that I saw the patient. Fusiform tumors in great number were found along the course of the nerves, tumors which were painless and mobile, and which occupied the thighs, the abdominal wall, the upper extremities, the neck, the occipital nerves, the face at the mental foramen, etc. Pressure upon these tumors px-o- duced a sensation of numbness and tingling. Similar tumors very probably existed upon the deep branches and in the spinal cord. Indeed the patient presented, as has been said, disturbances of sensibility and motility, a sensation of numbness and tingling in both upper and lower extremities. Muscular paresis was also observed, and at the same time very painful cramps and contractures which maintained the limbs in a state of flexion. There was also atrophy of the mus- cles. These symptoms continued more than three months, and then gradually disap- peared under the influence of bromide of potassium, in the dose of 5 grammes (gr. lxxv.) daily. The patient was able to work for a year, but was then obliged to re-enter the hospital on account of the cramps and contracture; some of the neuromata had acquired the size of small almonds, and had become painful; I removed them, and administered the bromide of potassium. All the symptoms again disappeared, and since that time the patient has pursued quite a laborious occupation in the hospital. On the other hand, I have observed a patient who has had for a long time small elongated tumors of the size of a pea along the course of the nerves in different regions, without these determining any symptom ; they have also preserved their small size. Symptoms of Third Stage.—We have seen that, in certain cases, multiple neuromata are not accompanied by any symptoms, and do not affect the health; in others, on the contrary, this is seriously injured, and death may supervene in consequence of the intensity of the pains and of the disturb- ances of nutrition. Poinsot designates this period as that of wasting. There is another complication which has been noted in several cases, in- cluding my own; one of the neuromata undergoes a rapid increase, and may become a fibro-plastic or sarcomatous tumor. Yirchow has reported a case in which neuromata of the upper extremity successively experienced this transformation, ultimately necessitating amputation of the arm. It must be noted that in several cases, as in that of my patient, the principal tumor has been seated at the upper part of the thigh. Connection of the Tumor with the Nerve.—The connections of the tumor with the nerve upon which it is seated are variable, and may be determined by the point of origin of the neoplasm, according to whether it arises in the neurilemma, in the perineurium, or in the intra-fascicular connective-tissue bundles. Virchow says that he has observed independent, hyperplastic neuromata without connection with the neighboring nerves; in a case of Lebourcq’s, the tumor was connected to the nerve by a pedicle; in other cases it has simply touched the nerve. The tumor is often developed in the thickness of the nerve, of which it