638 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. Traumatic tetanus has also been treated a certain number of times by nerve- section. All forms of this affection do not equally demand this operation; it should especially be practised when the contractions begin in the injured limb, and are accompanied by intense pain arising from the wound; when a nerve-lesion can be definitely recognized; when there is a tetanic aura at the beginning of each paroxysm; or when the presence of the symptom, pointed out by Wood, can be determined—the manifestation of pain in the wound at the moment that pressure is made upon one of the nerve-trunks which terminate in it. Even apart from these conditions, neurotomy should be performed, according to several authors, in all cases of tetanus accompanied by wounds. Under all circumstances, surgeons who recommend this opera- tion insist upon the necessity of performing it early, before the secondary lesions of the nerve-centres are too extensive to yield to the general treatment which should always aid the neurotomy. The efficacy of this operation has been'demonstrated by the instantaneous amelioration and rapid recovery which have followed in some cases. In respect to the choice of operation, there is no question of neurectomy, since the interruption of the nervous current should be only temporary; the choice is between simple and total neurotomy. The latter, true “nervous amputation of the limb,” as it is called by Tripier, who recommends it as an exclusive method in the treatment of tetanus, has the serious inconvenience of leaving as a result a nearly useless limb, although its advocate affirms that every trace of paralysis should disappear at the end of about six months; it is also objected to this operation, that it multiplies the causes of irritation. Letievant, nevertheless, believes that it may be properly resorted to when no special sign points to any particular nerve. As was said in studying the treatment of tetanus, recent cases seem to demonstrate that nerve-elongation is sufficient to arrest the symptoms, when it is employed in time; a few more favorable results, and it should be substituted for neuro- tomy, particularly since, even when combined with crushing, as is done by Yerneuil, it is followed by a more certain and more rapid re-establishment of the nervous functions—a fact which should encourage us to resort to the operation freely and in good time, a condition essential to success in the treat- ment of tetanus. Cases of epileptiform convulsions consecutive to traumatisms, cured by neuro- tomy or neurectomy, are sufficiently rare and sufficiently obscure for it to be impossible, as yet, to form any absolute conclusion in regard to them; it can only be said, that it is rational to think that these operations may be useful in certain cases. The same must be said in relation to idiopathic epilepsy, not- withstanding the numerous and interesting experiments of Brown-Sequard upon animals, from which Tripier thinks himself justified in concluding that neurotomy may and should be applied in all cases in which there exists an epileptic zone. This, however, is going too fast, and these experiments of the laboratory require confirmation from clinical observations. It must suffice to mention the other affections to which Brown-Sequard believes neurotomy applicable in certain cases: these are hysteria from lesion of peripheral nerves—very difficult to diagnose—hydrophobia, chorea, paralysis agitans, and delirium from nerve-wounds. Nerve-section has also been practised in cases of elephantiasis arabum, so as to utilize the atrophy conse- cutive to the suppression of innervation. T. Gr. Morton has published the case of a negro, thirty-four years old, otherwise in good health, whom he treated by resection of one and a half inches from the great sciatic nerve, after unsuccessful ligation of the femoral artery and compression of the limb. This man had suffered for fourteen years writh elephantiasis, limited to the right leg and thigh. Two months after the operation the limb had already