INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 178 tured with a separate thread. All the viscera were normal.1 The gangrene appeared on the tenth day after the casualty. Dr. J. C. Baylor, of Norfolk, Ya., has reported another example: J. W. Dinguid, wounded by a minie-ball on June 1, 1864. Femoral artery severed in its lower third ; no consecutive hemorrhage ; died on the 15th, fourteen days after the injury. Autopsy —Gangrene of foot had commenced ; wound in thigh a sloughy mass ; no effort at repair.2 In both of these cases the gangrene was late in making its appearance: in the first on the tenth, and in the last about the thirteenth day after the casualty. Both patients appear to have been sunk into so low a state from anaemic exhaustion that amputation was not admissible when gangrene set in. In the next four examples the severance of the popliteal artery was followed by gangrene in three instances:— Private James H. Dutcher, 2d N. Y. Heavy Artillery, aged 24, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under my care, June 4, 1864, from the field, having been wounded on May 31 by a conical musket-ball which passed through his left knee from before backward, and involved the track of the popliteal artery. Being very low, and the leg already gangrenous, he was placed on supporting treatment to prepare him for successful amputation, if possible. June 5—Foot and leg greatly swelled, dark-brown in color, and emitted an offensive, gangrenous odor. Thigh much swollen and hot; also extensively ecchymosed, and the swelling extends up to the groin. No line of separation yet appears. Countenance pale and anxious, pulse frequent and weak ; general debility great. He was perfectly clear-minded, and expressed a strong desire to have the gangrenous limb removed. I accordingly at once, under ether, amputated it high up in the upper third of the thigh by the flap method ; femur sawed off three-fourths of an inch below the trochanter minor. The shock of the operation was very great; reaction established with difficulty, and not complete until the next day. Dissection of the amputated member showed that the popliteal artery was completely divided by the bullet, just above its termination in the anterior and posterior tibials. June 6—He is feeble, pale, and anmmic. June 7—Condition unchanged; pulse about 90, and weak, notwithstanding that he receives all possible support from nutrients, tonics, and stimulants. June 8—No improvement; stump sloughy. He sank and died at 11 P. M, He also had obstinate vomiting with hiccough on the last day. The hemorrhage in this man’s case ceased spontaneously. It must, how- ever, have been considerable, for it left him in a state of anaemic exhaustion from which he never recovered. His death, too, was hastened by septicaemia; or by the fact that his system was contaminated with the decomposing fluids which readily passed into it from the gangrenous leg, as no line of separation formed between the dead and the living tissues. Private Sam. C. McCreary, 100th Penna. Vols., aged 24, was wounded at Chantilly, Sept. 1,1862, by a ball which passed through the right popliteal space, having entered about three inches above the insertion of the biceps flexor cruris, passed immediately behind the femur, and emerged through the inner hamstring muscles, chipping out a small piece of -the inner condyle, and dividing of course the popliteal artery. He lost a great deal of blood on the field, but the hemorrhage ceased of itself. On the fourth day afterward, he entered hospital at Alexandria, Va., in a very feeble condition and pre- senting an ensanguinated appearance; no pulsation in either tibial artery, and the leg itself cold. Gangrene followed, beginning at the toes. On Sept. 13, the limb was amputated four inches above the knee, under chloroform, by the flap method. For nearly three weeks after the operation, the patient’s life was almost beyond hope ; there was almost total anorexia, and large bed-sores formed about the sacrum. Under stimu- 1 Ibid., pp. 53, 54, 57. 2 American Journal Med. Sciences, 1865, p. 254.