592 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. nerve-fibres, and in 1865 Foerster recognized two varieties of tumor of nerve- tissue—one formed by a substance analogous to the gray substance of the brain (medullary neuroma), the other constituted by nerve-fibres (fasciculated neu- roma). This view was sustained by Virchow in his “Treatise on Tumors.” At the present time, notwithstanding the progress of pathological ana- tomy, it is not yet possible to give an exact classification of the tumors of which the nerves may be the seat; the attempt may be made, however, to frame a kind of outline which will serve to classify published cases; but it must not be forgotten that a certain number of these are still the subject of discussion, so that their actual nomenclature is not definitively settled. To the difficulty of making an anatomical diagnosis, not only at the bedside of the patient, but even by naked-eye and microscopical examination, must be attributed the want of precision which science presents upon this question. In the following pages, tumors of nerves will be described as being of three principal varieties: (1) those which are formed by the nerve-tissue itself; (2) those which are formed from the connective tissue of the nerves; and (8) the cancerous degenerations of nerves. In accordance with the principles of classification of tumors adopted in general pathology, I shall reserve the name neuromata for tumors which are constituted of nerve-tissue of new formation; the other tumors of nerves will be designated, as is done with tumors of other organs or tissues, by the name of the predominant tissue in the tumor. In connection with this sub- ject, we may recall the words of Cornil and Ranvier, “ that for a tumor to merit the name of neuroma, it does not suffice that it contains nerve-fibres; it is further necessary that the number of these latter allows it to be sup- posed that it is a new* formation of nerve-elements.” In regard to the painful subcutaneous tubercle, I shall describe it separately; if sometimes it has been found constituted of nerve-fibres (L. Labbe, Legros), more often it has been exclusively fibrous; moreover, it is not situated in the» course of a nerve-trunk or of an important branch, and in reality it constitutes, as we shall see presently, a quite distinct clinical variety. It is only the anatomy of the several forms of nerve-tumor that demands a separate description for each; of the other parts of their history a collec- tive study will suffice, the peculiarities of each variety being indicated when necessary; in this second part of the investigation, the term neuroma will often be employed as synonymous simply with nerve-tumor. Anatomy of Nerve-Tumors.—Tumors of nerves, as has been already said, are divided into three principal varieties: (1) Tumors formed by the nerve- tissue (neuromata); (2) Tumors formed from the connective tissue (fibromata, sarcomata, myxomata, cysts)-, and (3) Cancerous and epithelial degenerations. I. Neuromata.—The tumors constituted of nerve-tissue of new formation are divided by German authors into two varieties, viz.: (1) Medullary or cellular neuromata, consisting of ganglionic cells, and (2) Fasciculated or fibril- lar neuromata, formed of nerve-fibres. A third group may be added, viz.: (8) that of the plexiform neuromata. (1) Cellular neuromata.—These are met with in the nerve-centres, and some- times in encephaloceles; in one case, a tumor of this kind was found in a nerve-ganglion. According to Virchow, there may be a formation of nerve- substance in encephaloceles, and in congenital tumors of the sacrum and coccyx; as to the formation of normal ganglia upon the course of nerves, it is far from being established. Possibly a hyperplasia of undescribed, though pre-existing, ganglia may be admitted. Indeed, the existence of these neuro-