148 INJURIES OE BLOODVESSELS. compressor, however, was kept ready to suppress any hemorrhage that might supervene. December 4, towards evening, two cupfuls of red blood flowed out; the compressor was placed on the femoral artery, and arrested the hemorrhage ; five days later it was removed; pus mixed with blood and containing clots was discharged from the wound. December 19, some spoonfuls of blood escaped ; there was also mild delirium. Decem- ber 22, death occurred.1 At the autopsy, a vast cavity containing extravasated blood was found. The external circumflex artery had been ruptured.1 Rupture of the Popliteal Artery.—This vessel, notwithstanding its sheltered position in the flexure of the knee, not unfrequently sustains a traumatic lesion in the shape of rupture. In the following example the popliteal artery was partially, and the popliteal vein completely, torn across, without external wound:— A healthy young man, aged 19, while riding on the front seat of an omnibus, was struck on his left knee by the top of a cart drawn by a runaway horse, which drove his knee backward with great force. On admission to hospital, soon afterward, there was much contusion of the knee observed, with swelling in the popliteal space, but no sign of fracture nor of dislocation. The swelling increased, and the patient complained of loss of sensation in his leg; the temperature of the leg also fell, and pulsation could barely be felt in the posterior tibial artery. On auscultation a low clicking sound was heard in the course of the popliteal artery. The diagnosis was a probable rupture of that artery. Primary amputation above the knee was resorted to, and the patient ultimately did well. On examination, there was found extensive effusion of blood into the areolar tissue of the amputated member; the popliteal vein was completely severed ; and the inner and middle coats of the popliteal artery were torn through and separated from the external coat, which remained undivided.2 The injury of the knee-joint which complicated the case, and the gangrene of the leg which was strongly threatened, necessitated the performance of amputation. However, if that operation could have been avoided, and the limb saved, a popliteal aneurism would, doubtless, have resulted from this lesion of the artery; and I believe that a similar lesion of the inner and mid- dle coats of this artery, caused by violent stretchings as well as by blows, not unfrequently gives rise to popliteal aneurism, especially when that affection occurs in young persons who have neither atheroma nor calcification in the walls of any bloodvessel. The following case illustrates this point:— On March 25, 1869, I was called to a young man, aged about 21, of healthy paren- tage, healthy constitution, and good habits, on account of a popliteal aneurism which had returned several months after being apparently cured by ligature of the superficial femoral artery. The origin of the aneurism could be attributed to nothing but a severe strain, which had probably ruptured the inner and middle coats of the popliteal artery. Flexion treatment had been employed in the summer of 1868, but without benefit; in the autumn, ligature of the femoral had been performed with apparently an excellent result. Early in March, however, the disease had returned ; the tumor had increased rapidly. On the 25th, when I was called, it was considerably more than half as large as my fist, and the pain was intense ; all the signs peculiar to aneurism were present. Notwithstanding confinement to bed, etc., the tumor continued to increase with great rapidity. His home did not permit of operative treatment, and as the speedy employment of operative measures was imperative, on account of the great size and rapid growth of the swelling, I had him sent to St. Luke’s Hospital, on April 12, just nineteen days after I first saw him. There, compression of the femoral artery, both digital and instrumental, was faithfully tried, but without success. The aneurism then appeared almost ready to burst; and, as a -last expedient, amputation was performed. He did well for some time; but pyaemia supervened, and, on May 9, caused his death. 1 Nouveau Dietionnaire de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, t. x. pp. 467, 468. 2 British Medical Journal, August 28, 1875, p. 259.