587 NEURALGIA IN GENERAL. tions of irritation, anxiety, vertigo, and unfitness for work; at the end of the attacks, the patient sometimes passes a large quantity of watery urine. When the neuralgia is chronic, trophic disturbances may appear; there have been noted, a hypertrophy of half the face (Axenfeld), falling of the hair, and, in recent times, increase of the subcutaneous fat and muscular atrophy ; but then there is neuritis or a spinal lesion (Landouzy, Fernet). • Finally, the general health of the patients may be altered, they become impressionable and melancholy, and their digestive functions are impaired. These symptoms of neuralgia may be met with in all the etiological varie- ties, but the precocious, secondary, traumatic neuralgias of Verneuil present certain peculiarities. These show themselves generally, according to this author, apart from all material lesion of the nerves, after the cessation of the primary pain caused by the injury and the nerve lesion, and as early as the beginning of the repa- rative process in the wound, that is to say, during the first week ; they differ from the tardy neuralgias which appear after cicatrization (neuralgias of cica- trices and stumps. These neuralgias may be accompanied by clonic contractions, contractures, paresis, congestion, ecchymosis, and hemorrhage from the granulations ; some- times the wound assumes a diptheroidal aspect; finally, general phenomena, such as fever and vomiting, may be met with. Yerneuil distinguishes several varieties of this form of neuralgia, accord- ing to their seat: (1) Local pain, limited to the traumatic focus ; (2) Local pain, with peripheral irradiations ; (3) Local pain, with peripheral insensi- bility and distal manifestations; (4) Local, peripheral, and distal pain, all at the same time; and (5) Local insensibility, with pain only at a distance. These neuralgias are intermittent, and are relieved by the sulphate of quinine. The course of neuralgia is generally irregular. Its onset may be sudden, or it may be gradual, and preceded by a sensation of uneasiness. The attacks are of variable duration; they are remittent, and sometimes intermittent, as in malarial poisoning; the painful paroxysms, the darting pains which constitute them, occur with greater or less frequency, and are more or less violent. The duration of neuralgia may be a few days, several months, or several years; the study of its causes accounts for all the variations here noted; neuralgia is then either evanescent or persistent. The termination of neuralgia is never fatal, but it may change the general state of the patient, react upon his moral nature, and drive him to suicide. In some cases neuralgia disappears gradually, exhausting itself as it were; sometimes at the moment of its definitive disappearance, or upon the cessa- tion of a paroxysm, there are observed so-called critical phenomena— cutaneous eruptions, diarrhoea, profuse diuresis, etc. Neuralgia generally disappears when an intercurrent disease supervenes. In other cases its dis- appearance is coincident with the occurrence of congestive metastases, or more often with the development of other neuralgias. Pathological Physiology.—The pathological physiology of neuralgia is not yet completely known. What is the cause of the pain ; in what does it con- sist ? Is it a special excitation of the properties of the nerve, a particular weakening, or a modification of conductibility ? We do not know. But it seems certain that there is no single lesion, nor one cause always alike, to explain the pain. Rigal admits a lesion of the nervous elements, or a dis- turbance in the molecular interchanges. Ouspenky, a partisan of the central theory of neuralgia, supposes that each pain is provoked, or at least accom-