INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. 644 Among the predisposing causes, age has some influence. Dislocations are most frequent in middle life, not only because at that period the necessities of active life subject men more frequently to risk of external violence, hut also because the bones of children and old men are more prone to break than to be put out of joint. An unnatural degree of relaxation of joint-structures is a very frequent, pre- disposing cause of luxation. This looseness of the capsules may be congenital, or may be developed by systematic stretching of a gymnastic sort. Strangely enough, the power of voluntary displacement of all the principal joints can be attained by long practice. Persons who have acquired this abnormal profi- ciency have travelled from city to city in the last few years, making a sub- sistence from the fees of medical students before whom they have exhibited the wonderful malpositions which they could produce at will In the joints of all the limbs. The most usual exciting cause of dislocation is external violence; but in a few instances the luxation is the result of subjective influence, viz.: muscular tension, or the destruction of the boundaries of the joint by disease, or both causes acting in concert. Where great external violence is applied to a joint, the direction of the force will have much to do in determining whether the injury shall be a dislocation or a fracture. The strength of the capsular ligament is least on those sides of a joint where there is lea£t frequent pres- sure ; hence, if the force happens to drive the head of the bone in that direc- tion, a dislocation will ensue, but if the movement is towards the places best guarded, the bone will generally give way instead of the ligament, as, for instance, in the hip joint, where dislocation in the direction of the thick Y ligament is seldom or never seen. Symptoms.—The rational symptoms of dislocation usually are not such as to be of any value in differential diagnosis. The local symptoms only are of importance. Deformity due to three causes is found to exist whenever a bone is out of joint. (1) Flattening or depression of the region from which the articular extremity has been removed. (2) Prominence, from its presence in a new place. (3) Unnatural position of the limb or other member, from the resist- ance of the ligaments or muscles to the unusual traction. The member may be unnaturally lengthened, shortened, flexed, extended, rotated, adducted, or abducted. Mobility as a rule is impaired, but is not totally abolished. The limb offers to the hand moving it a species of elastic resistance, wholly different from the unrestrained, natural sweep of the member in its normal condition. Sometimes in causing the misplaced head of the bone to move across the torn fibres of ligaments which lie about it, a sensation is conveyed to the hand of the surgeon, faintly resembling crepitus. This differs so decidedly from the hard grating perceived by the hand or the ear in cases of fracture, that it seldom leads to difficulty of diagnosis. In most cases of dislocation, rupture of the capsule takes place, but in a few instances ligamentous relaxation is so great that entire separation of the joint surfaces is found without rending of the fibrous connections. The syno- vial membrane seldom escapes more or less injury when a joint has suffered displacement. Inflammation from this cause may be of such severity that partial adhesion of the opposing surfaces, or even complete anchylosis, is a result. When a dislocation is not reduced, various structural changes take place in the vicinity. The old socket sometimes becomes in a great measure filled up and obliterated, while in other instances it persists for a surprising length