INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. 636 To sum up, section of nerves is especially indicated in neuralgias which are primarily peripheral, but may also succeed in some neuralgias of central ori- gin ; it may therefore be said, with Dennis, that its principal indication resides in the violence of the pains, and in their resistance to other means of treat- ment. In regard to the choice of operative procedure, the opinions of authors differ according to their theory of the mode of relapse. Tripier, who believes that the pain returns rather through the ways of transmission which have been allowed to persist, than through the cicatrix of the nerve, extols simple divi- sion of all the painful branches, simultaneous or successive polyneurotomy, and he thinks neurectomy necessary only when it is wished to remove an altered portion of a nerve trunk. Letievant thinks that neurotomy, practised upon a single branch alone, should only be done if the neuralgia is traumatic; if it affects exclusively the sphere of distribution of a single nerve, or if it has begun thus very distinctly, and has only extended at a later period to the neighboring branches; if the paroxysm begins by a circumscribed pain of the nerve; if pressure upon the nerve which it is intended to cut diminishes or suppresses the paroxysm; and if there is no sign of central neuralgia: in all other cases he recommends simultaneous section of all the branches upon which there exist painful points (points douloureux). This author thinks, with Otto Weber and Virchow, that neurotomy is very probably sufficient to cure neuralgia when it is well applied. He recognizes only that neurec- tomy gives an additional security, and that it may be resorted to when the region permits this operation to be done without too much increasing the gravity of the prognosis, which is always more serious than that of a simple neurotomy. Such is not, however, the opinion of the great majority of sur- geons of the present day, who see in the cicatricial union of the extremities of the divided nerve, the principal cause of relapse, and who consider neu- rectomy the best means of obviating its occurrence. An operation recently proposed, the elongation of nerves, to which a special section of this article has been devoted, has been recommended for the cure of neuralgia as a substitute for the division of nerves, with or without resec- tion. I may here add that, if elongation is perhaps preferable to section of nerves in neuralgias of the extremities, especially in the case of the mixed nerves, the motor function of which it preserves nearly intact, when, on the contrary, the cranial nerves are concerned—instead of elongation, which may act upon the nerve centres, exciting them, and causing either trophic dis- turbances, as in irritation of the branches of the trifacial, or arrest of the heart by reflex action—neurectomy is generally to be preferred, particularly for neu- ralgias of the fifth pair. For the facial nerve, however, if the case is one of painless spasm {tic) of the muscles of the face, it will be of advantage to em- ploy moderate elongation, with crushing of the nerve, for example, between the blades of the forceps. Both reflex disturbance and permanent paralysis are thus avoided. The surgical treatment, it is thus seen, should vary not only with each kind of neuralgia, but also with each kind of nerve, according as it is a spinal or cranial nerve, and, in the latter case, as it is a nerve of sensation or motion. Sometimes section of the nerve is followed by a complete disappearance of the pain, at the very moment of operation—the recovery is instantaneous; but it is not unusual to see the pain continue for a certain time, and then gradually disappear. Again, the good effects of the operation may be much more slowly produced, the recovery being then attributed, as we have seen, to an atrophic process occurring in the nerve-centres as a result of the section of the nerve; but these cases must be received wTith hesitation, since they