464 ANEURISM. Reduced to decimals, we find of cures “ “ “ of failures Dying with or without amputation Surviving after amputation 45.94 per cent. 54.06 “ 6.08 “ 0.69 “ Few cases are treated entirely by one method. In the intervals of instru- mental pressure, either a weight or slight finger pressure is used, or vice versa; flexion to a moderate extent may be superadded to either method. I have taken in the 68 successful cases a certain standard for dividing the examples into a more or less conventional series of categories, only placing among the “combined” those in which two or more forms were used about equally, so that one could not he regarded as a mere adjuvant to the other. The longest time of persistence ending in cure was 6 months (digital and instrumental pressure combined). We find among the protracted periods, 6 months, 3 months, 54 days, 7 weeks, 38 days, 4 weeks, 1 month, 3 weeks, 21 days, and so on.1 The methods employed were respectively the combined, combined, instrumental, digital, weight, staff-pressure, combined, combined, and digital. The shortest period was 4| hours. Of the cures ii U u u 26 were due to instrumental pressure. 21 “ “ digital “ 12 “ “ combined, “ 6 “ “ weight “ 3 “ “ staff For instrumental pressure the longest period was “ “ “ ' the shortest “ Average of the 19 cases in which time of cure is stated For digital pressure, longest period .... “ “ “ shortest period Average period of the 13 cases in which the time is stated 7 weeks. 24 hours. 12 days. 21 days. 4-^ hours. 5^ days. For combined pressure, longest period . . . .6 months. “ “ “ shortest period . . . .44 hours. Average period for the 12 cases in which the time is stated, 44 days 8 hours.2 We now will take the results as shown in the reports of the six hospitals before named; they are a little more favorable. I find exactly 90 patients treated by pressure in the ten years. Of these, 44 were cured, in 38 the treat- ment failed, 4 submitted to amputation, and 4 died. Of the unsuccessful cases, 34 came to ligature ; the causes of amputation were in 2 gangrene, in 1 rupture of the sac, 1 not stated; 2 of these patients survived. The causes of death were gangrene in 2, exhaustion without gangrene in 1, thrombosis in l.3 Deligation of the Superficial Femoral Artery for Popliteal Aneurism.—This operation is rarely practised in Hunter’s canal, although in certain contingen- 1 I give the periods in the words of the authors. 2 Among the instrumental cases, a few of long treatment run up the average thus high: two, for instance, of 7 and of 5 weeks, respectively. To the combined method, all the most obstinate cases fall. Thus we have 7 very long cases, namely, 6 months, 3 months, 13 weeks, 54 days, 5 weeks, 30 days, 1 month. As already mentioned, this arises from reiterated and varied attempts to cure obstinate aneurisms. 3 I cannot be sure of the absolute correctness of these numbers ; in some of the hospitals, the reports were, for a year or two of the included time, not very well kept ; by questioning and abundant reference I have been able to get particulars in some cases ; when I have not been able to do so, I have omitted the cases altogether. I should like to take this opportunity of thanking the present registrars of the various hospitals for their most kind and courteous aid, without which it would have been impossible for me to complete the tables whereof the above is a summary ; they are arranged for each hospital in the order given. I do not think that I can give the times of treatment with sufficient accuracy to render the calculations reliable, nor shall I follow this plan for other aneurisms save the femoral. Concerning pressure used in the upper extremity, a very few words must suffice.