ARTERITIS. 331 Inflammation may be established in any or all parts of the arterial system. One form of arteritis will involve the larger trunks, while another will pass these without molestation, and establish itself in the distant arterioles. Simple endarteritis is most apt to occur in the aorta and arteries of the second mag- nitude, while syphilitic arteritis, the most marked lesion of which is an endarteritis, rarely attacks the larger trunks, hut does its dangerous work in the more or less complete occlusion of the small and smallest arteries. Inflammation of the bloodvessels, and of the arteries especially, is a pro- cess which demands a consideration second in importance to none in the domain of surgery. So protean are the changes it produces, so great the dangers it entails upon tissue life, and so important its early recognition and prompt arrest (if such be possible), that I take the liberty of going beyond the province usually allotted to surgical discussion, and of giving here in condensed form the latest contributions to our knowledge of the histology of the arteries:— The internal coat of the larger arteries is composed of two parts: (1) An endothelial lining membrane, consisting of a single layer of flat, polygonal, nucleated cells, slightly elongated in the axis of the vessel; in edge view, these cells appear spindle-shaped, on account of the elevation of the nucleus at its centre (Heitzmann); (2) A subendothelial layer of flattened, nucleated, anastomosing cells resting in a fibrillated basement substance, the direction of the fibrillse being generally parallel with the long axis of the artery (Cornil and Ranvier). In the smaller arteries this layer is exceedingly fine, while in the aorta it is comparatively thick, being composed of two distinct layers. Here the internal of these two layers is longitudinal, the external transverse in direction. The middle coat in the larger arteries, such as the aorta and carotids, is composed of elastic laminse and of fibres, forming by their anastomoses a continuous system, and holding in the meshes of their loops the muscular tissue, transverse in its direction, and a relatively small amount of connective tissue (Cornil and Ranvier). According to C. Toldt, the muscle- fibres of the middle coat are wanting in the initial portion of the aorta, in the pulmonary artery, and in the arterioles of the retina. In the descending aorta, the common iliac, and the popliteal, small bundles in an oblique or longi- tudinal direction are interspersed between the circular ones, and in other arte- ries, such as the renal and spermatic, at the inner boundary of the muscular coat, scanty longitudinal bundles occur, which by some are considered to belong to the inner coat. At times, in the corresponding arteries of different persons, differences are observed in the distribution of the muscles of the middle coat (Heitzmann). On the side nearest the inner coat, the middle tunic is limited by a denser and more defined elastic lamina, which shows, however, on transverse section, a festooned appearance—very important in the study of the pathology of arteritis—and is named the internal layer of the elastic coat. Upon the side of the tunica media nearest the external coat, the elastic fibres pass outward, interlacing freely with the connective tissue of the adventitia. In the femoral, brachial, and other arteries of middle size, the middle coat possesses only one layer, namely, the internal elastic. The mus- cular fibres are transverse in direction, and form themselves into flattened bundles, separated by connective-tissue bundles and by elastic fibrillse, which are continuous on the one hand with the inner, elastic layer, and on the other with the elastic network interwoven with the adventitia. There are no ves- sels in the middle and internal coats. In the external coat are found arteries, capillaries, veins, lymphatics, and nerves. The small arteries have a middle coat, formed of involuntary muscle-cells, so interwoven that they form a continuous membrane (Cornil and Ranvier).