467 FEMORO-POPLITEAL, FEMORAL, AND INGUINAL ANEURISMS. Femoro-Popliteal, Femoral, and Inguinal Aneurisms.—We now leave popliteal aneurism, and, following the course of the vessel upward, we find that that portion of it which traverses the opening in the adductor magnus is also liable to disease; being situated partly in the thigh and partly in the pop- liteal space, it is called femoro-popliteal aneurism in this locality, and its surgery and statistics are included in those of popliteal aneurism. Above this lies what is termed femoral aneurism, under which name is understood merely aneurism of the superficial or of the common femoral artery. The former of these may occur either in Hunter’s canal or in the lower part of Scarpa’s triangle; the latter is named after the artery it affects, or, especially if high, is also termed inguinal. Aneurism of the profunda is called by that name ; it is femoral in situation, but requires a distinctive designation; it is a rare malady, and is not usually easily diagnosed from some of the forms above mentioned. A femoral aneurism seated in Hunter’s canal may be treated by one of the varieties of pressure, or by flexion at the hip and knee, as well as by ligature of the superficial femoral artery. Pressure may be carried out, if the aneurism he low on the thigh, exactly as has been directed for popliteal aneurism; if higher, only the groin is avail- able for compressing the vessel in the limb ; but by a horse-shoe, an abdomi- nal, or a Signoroni’s tourniquet, or by a weight, the external iliac artery may be controlled. This treatment is not as efficacious as in popliteal aneurism. I find that since 1869 it has been, according to published accounts, employed 38 times ;x 10 of the cases were successful, 25 came to ligature, 1 to amputa- tion, and 2‘died. Of the 10 successful cases, 7 were treated by complete com- pression, in 5 with the aid of an anaesthetic. The longest period of treat- ment in successful cases was 3 days, the next 27J hours, the pressure of course being at times interrupted. The shortest period was 1J hours (digital pressure); the average duration of treatment till the aneurism was consolidated was 4 days. The amputation was for gangrene, after 8 days’ pressure. Two deaths occurred, both from pulmonary thrombosis and pneumonia—one after 19 hours’ compression, and one after treatment lasting 19 days, with inter- missions of 6 and 9 days. In one of the successful cases peritonitis had nearly destroyed the patient, and another was cured only just in time, a deep slough having formed which on separation exposed the artery. In one of the 25 cases that came to ligature, the common femoral was tied, and in one the superficial femoral; catgut was used in both, and both did well. In the others, the external iliac was tied. Of these operations we shall speak immediately. Turn we now to hospital experience. In the ten years and six institutions already given, I find that 32 cases are recorded, but of two it is merely mentioned that they were in hospital, and one was a doubtful case, which it was proposed to treat by rest; the man thought that he could lie in bed at home, and went away. I have then to deal with 29 cases. Of these were cured ..... 6 Deaths 4 The causes of death were : Rupture of sac ...... 2 Thrombosis of femoral vein ... 1 Thrombosis with pneumonia . . . , 1 1 Under this category falls the case of femoral aneurism which hy pressure was cured in six years, and which, as it was entirely exceptional, I here exclude from my computation of time.