398 ANEURISM. detected. Its outer layer expands into a case for the base of, or may send out spiculae and ridges into, the mass; or an outlying spur of the tumor may eat away a portion of the bone, and be pulseless ; or, again, the tumor may occupy both faces of a flat bone, such as the ilium, and may thus betray its real nature.1 II. Aneurisms which do not pulsate present to the surgeon very difficult problems. Probably aneurisms proper (that is, not cirsoid aneurisms, nor wounded arteries) only cease to beat under three conditions: (1) Consolida- tion, involving the part of the artery implicated; (2) Rupture and diffusion; (3) Compression, by the sac, of the artery above.2 That errors may arise is shown by the case quoted by Mr. Erichsen, of an amputation at the thigh for supposed tumor, the disease turning out to be a popliteal aneurism spontaneously cured.3 Hor do I know of any positive signs by which to distinguish between a solidified aneurism and other hard tumors. The history of the case and the age of the patient must be taken into account, but the great aid to diagnosis will be the more or less globular form of the tumor, its isolation from adjacent parts, and the fact that it does not increase (if really solid), but rather decreases. Certainly, in such a case, no mutilating operation should be performed, par- ticularly if the lump were seated near one of those arteries' known to be emi- nently prone to aneurism. Ruptured Aneurisms.—An aneurism which has burst widely and largely, filling the limb and distending the fascia with considerable blood-effusion, is hardly to he mistaken for any other condition. But if the sac has given way to a very slight extent, after the manner to he presently described, the greatest embarrassment of diagnosis may arise, for the effused blood may not stain the skin by showing through it, or by producing ecchymosis; indeed, the surface is often unusually white, while the superficial veins, the main one being compressed, mark themselves out in a distinct mesliwork as they do in cases of deep, rapidly growing tumors. Moreover, the blood, being slowly effused, partially coagulates, covering the aneurism and percolating the tissues, so that the swelling has neither definition nor pulsation ; and as the clotting is generally irregularly disposed here and there among the tissues, an uneven consistence and a nodular surface are produced. Position, too, may cause part of the effused blood to gravitate to some distance, so that the tumor appears to spring from some point a long way from the artery. The pulse beyond is usually weakened, as is common in aneurism, but this, in the cases we are considering, is probably due to pressure of the tumor, which commonly grows either equably or, not unfrequently, remittently. J udging from the cases of this condition which I have seen and very care- fully studied, the correct diagnosis is only to be made out from the history, when that is sufficiently clear; a reference to the medical man who may have seen and treated the patient before such obscurity arose, will always be desir- able. Fortunately, this embarrassing condition of the disease is rare; an error, unless it lead to free incision, is not of vital importance, since if the 1 A case of pulsatile tumor on the head came under the care of Bardelehen in 1876. It must have presented unusual features, since that surgeon diagnosed it as an aneurism of the middle meningeal artery. The matter attracted considerable attention in Germany, as so rare an affec- tion was likely to do. Several operations were performed, including ligation of the internal car- otid. The child was not benefited, hut lived for some years. After death the tumor was exam- ined, among others by Virchow ; it was a large spindle-celled sarcoma growing from the diploe. (Zeitschrift der Chirurgie, 1877.) 2 This last must he rare. I give it on the authority of Pirogoff. If such a condition does exist, it must lead rapidly to spontaneous cure. s If one may judge from the illustration (Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 291), the error in that case must have been a difficult one to make.