SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 431 ligature should be applied at that spot; hut the vessel must be tied above and below, the ligatures being separated as far as possible without any large branch springing from the artery between them. If this cannot be avoided, the branch must also be ligatured. Even if no gangrene, but pretty severe inflammation of the compressed soft parts, have arisen, deligation of the vessel, at that point, should be avoided.1 After the use of pressure for some considerable time, the artery is not unfrequently found to be so imbedded in thickened tissues with which its outer coat is continuous, that it is difficult to pass an aneurism needle around it. In some cases, the vein has been very closely adherent to the artery, rendering isolation and deligation exceedingly difficult, and even dangerous. In conclusion, I would say that since certain operative improvements and the use of soluble ligatures have rendered the operation of tying arteries a far less hazardous measure than it was some years ago, the treatment by pres- sure ought not to be greatly prolonged, nor repeated again and again after relapses. Valuable as is this method, and desirable as it may be to avoid the knife when feasible, the effects of prolonged pressure-treatment on the health and on the limb are far worse, and no less dangerous, than ligature, while they jeopardize the results of that more potent expedient.2 A decision as to the time when failure of compression must be acknowledged, should be founded on the length of time already consumed, and the condition of the tumor. If a few hours have produced some appreciable and real improve- ment, hope of success may justify perseverance; but if, while the time is longer, the change is less marked, or if complete relapse have occurred a second time, it will be wise, in the large majority of cases, to desist. The collateral branches will have probably already taken upon themselves too much work, and the state of the main vessel will be unfavorable for the further continu- ance of treatment. Ligation.—The first description of tying vessels for aneurism dates from the third century, as far as we know from the writings of the ancients pre- served to us; and there is a procedure indifferently called the “ old operation,” or the “ method of Antyllus,” much talked of and occasionally practised. But, in truth, Antyllus did not describe that which is now done under these names. The only record which remains of the writings of this surgeon, is to be found in the medical collection of Oribasius, the twentieth chapter of whose fourth book is “upon aneurism, taken from Antyllus.”3 We must, in studying this method, remember that the idea of surgeons up to the end of the fifteenth century was that the solidified blood in the sac was the peccant condition—that which rendered the malady dangerous—and that the aim of Antyllus was to get rid of this without causing dangerous hemorrhage. Therefore, after distinguishing between aneurisms arising from dilatation and from rent (probably fusiform and sacculated), he says:— “ If it be an aneurism by dilatation, we make through the skin an incision in the direction of the artery, and separate its lips by means of hooks; then we divide all the 1 Gangrene of arterial coats is very rarely, if ever, produced by pressure ; but cases have, to my knowledge, occurred, in which secondary hemorrhage from the place of ligature (when ap- plied as forbidden in the text) has set in more rapidly than could have happened had the vessel been uninjured. 2 I would refer to the history of a case recorded in the Dublin Medical Journal, vol. lx. p. 391. The aneurism was popliteal; the patient, clever and not indocile, again and again protested against continuance of the various forms of pressure, which, nevertheless, were kept up for 720 hours spread over about a month ; then the sac sloughed and amputation was needed to save life. It seems to me that such perseverance is a sacrifice to the Moloch of an idea. 3 The work does not pretend to be more than a collection from a great number of previous wri- ters, Antyllus, Galen, Ruffus, and many others.