633 NEUROTOMY AND NEURECTOMY. In conclusion, I must describe the mode of elongating the sciatic nerve proposed by Trombetta,in accordance with the experiments of Vogt, and based upon the exhaustion of the elasticity of this nerve in movements of forced flexion of the thigh. It consists simply in flexing the thigh upon the pelvis, beyond a right angle, while the leg is kept extended upon the thigh. This manipulation determines, according to this author, a lengthening of the sciatic nerve, as great as a man could produce by drawing with all his strength upon this nerve. In experiments upon the cadaver, I have ascertained that, in forced flexion of the thigh, the leg being extended, the sciatic nerve is strongly drawn over the posterior' surface of the neck of femur, and is flat- tened at this point. Trombetta does not believe that his procedure is appli- cable to the brachial plexus, because the movements of the arm are naturally too extended to allow of their being much exaggerated. This procedure avoids the inconveniences of a bloody operation, but it necessitates complete ansesthesia, and clinical facts in sufficient number to allow an appreciation of its therapeutic value, are yet wanting; finally, as it requires very great flexibility of the coxo-femoral articulation, it is often inapplicable. III. Neurotomy and Neurectomy. The name Neurotomy is given to an operation which by a simple section interrupts the continuity of one or several nerves. Neurectomy is the resec- tion of a more or less extended portion of a nerve-trunk. These two operations have the same immediate results, and the circum- stances by which they are indicated are very analogous; hence it is convenient to study them together, in order to avoid repetition, pointing out, by the way, the peculiarities proper to each. History.—"Without speaking of the old surgeons who treated neuralgias, consecutive to wounds of the head, by surrounding the wound with deep incisions, it was about the middle of the last century that nerve-section appears to have been devised and practised for the first time by Marechal, for the cure of tic douloureux of the face. But the inadequacy of this operation was soon recognized, and at the end of the 18th century, Andre, a surgeon of Versailles, treated this affection by the application of caustic a)ong the course of the nerve, in such a manner as to destroy it for a certain extent—a procedure more certain, said Boyer (1822), than the resection of a portion of the nerve-trunk, but which was, notwithstanding, but little employed, ex- cept as a last resort after the failure of resection, on account of the extent of the ravages which it determined. The abuse made of nerve-sections and their bad results, which are easily explained, since they were almost exclusively applied to facial neuralgias, the most obstinate of all, caused them to fall into complete discredit, from whence they were again raised, about 1852, the period at which Roux, in France, Laurenzi and Borelli, in Italy, Schuh and Patruban, in Austria, and Wagner, in Prussia, again brought them into honor. Subsequently they were extolled by Sedillot and Nelaton, in France, and by Weber, of Bonn; but it is Letievant to whom is due the most com- plete study of them which has been made. Apart from neuralgias, neurotomy has been tried in cases of functional spasm, and in a certain number of spasmodic affections; in tetanus, by Larrey; in certain cases of chorea which are kept up by peripheral lesions, by Borelli, of Turin, Andral, and Malden; in hysteria due to a lesion of the peripheral nerves; in hydrophobia; in paralysis agitans; and in the delirium from nerve-