INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 280 which are occluded by thrombosis, is as follows: The blood injected into the limb through its arteries, being not conducted away through its veins, stag- nates, and exhibits a more or less strong tendency to effuse itself from the parts whose capillaries are not strengthened and supported by tissues exte- rior to their walls. Thus it happens, in such cases, that the capillaries of wounded, granulating, and ulcerating surfaces, not unfrequently give way in consequence of the increased vascular tension, and parenchymatous hemor- rhage ensues. To illustrate 'primary parenchymatous hemorrhage, the following example, which occurred in my own practice, is presented:— Lieut. C. H. Doerflinger, Co. K, 26th Wisconsin Vols., aged 20, and of excellent constitution, was wounded at Chancellorsville, May 2,1863, by a conoidal musket-ball, which fractured his left leg, etc. On June 15, he was brought to Stanton Hospital, where the effort to save his limb was continued, although his condition was not favora- ble. On the 27th, amputation could no longer be delayed, and accordingly it was per- formed at the lower third of the thigh by the circular method. At the place of operation the tissues were considerably swelled and inflamed. A large number of ligatures were applied. There was also a troublesome oozing of blood, a parenchymatous hemor- rhage, from the face of the whole stump. After a time the wound of operation was closed and dressed; but the patient was still retained upon the operating table. In a little while, I was recalled because of a profuse flow of blood through the dress- ings. These were immediately removed, and the stump opened, in order to find the source of the hemorrhage. It was then seen that the blood did not issue in a dis- tinct stream at any point, but escaped from the parenchyma over the raw surface of the whole stump, by a process of general oozing, and that the hemorrhage in all constituted a current of considerable size. The application of cold water, and even of ice, did not arrest this parenchymatous bleeding, and seemed to retard it but little. Finally, I covered the whole surface of the stump with lint soaked in liquor ferri persulph., and this proceeding speedily suppressed the bleeding. The stump was left open so as to granulate from the bottom, and prevent any collection of purulent matter. The patient slowly recovered. Another example of primary parenchymatous hemorrhage, which occurred in my own practice, may be found reported in the volume of the U. S. Sani- tary Commission Surgical Memoirs, that has been already referred to.1 Dr. W. Clendenin has reported a case of primary parenchymatous hemor- rhage in a thigh-stump, which proved fatal:— B. F. Black, Co. A, 6th Kentucky Infantry, aged 23, was wounded at Cliickamauga September 19, 1863, by a ball which passed obliquely through his right knee-joint. On October 30, amputation of the limb was performed. ‘ No tourniquet was used, and yet, after securing the arteries, profuse hemorrhage of a parenchymatous character took place. This hemorrhage was of the most persistent character ; it was, however, finally arrested by applying a strong solution of persulphate of iron, but not until such a quan- tity of blood had been lost that death ensued the same evening. Autopsy In the stump, a large abscess extended as high as the trochanter major, the intermuscular spaces being filled with a sero-purulent fluid. In the femoral vein, just below Poupart’s ligament, a fibrinous clot was found, which completely filled up.the venous canal at that point. No pus was seen here, nor in any of the veins. The right side of the heart was entirely filled with a fibrinous clot. The liver, lungs, and all other organs were sound.3 The femoral vein, in this case, was occluded by a thrombus, whose forma- tion had resulted from the presence of an unhealthy femoral abscess. The parenchymatous bleeding which followed the amputation had,.therefore, a twofold origin : First, the inflamed condition of the tissues, divided by the • Op. cit., pp. 241, 413, 414. 3 Ibid., pp. 241, 242.