369 ANGEIOMATA. vessel with other vessels is cut off, and that the corpuscles and coloring matter of the blood disappear, the serum remaining as a cystic fluid. The question of the relation of these tumors to carcinomata and sarcomata is worthy of consideration. J. Muller has reported a malignant (recurrent) Fig. 531. Aneurism by anastomosis in parietal bone. (Erichsen.) angeioma. A case of melanotic degeneration of a congenital nsevus in a woman aged forty has been reported by Dr. Stiles. The vascular dilatations in osteo-sarcomata and in other forms of carcinoma and sarcoma are analogous to those found in cavernous angeiomata. Some of the malignant tumors pul- sate like the angeiomata. An angeioma may be diffuse or encapsulated. The prognosis depends upon the size and location of the neoplasm. The diagnosis is not difficult in the superficial tumors, but in those deeply situated, and in the track of large vessels, the differentiation from aneurism is not easy. The arterial and capillary cutaneous tumors are almost always congenital; the venous tumors are rarely so. Angeiomata may be distinguished from osteo-sarcomata which have perceptible pulsation, by the crackling impression conveyed to the sense of touch from the malignant tumors of bone. Several consecutive telangiectases may occur in the same individual. Hutchinson, of London, reports the case of a child which had over one hun- dred nsevi, all distinct and superficial. Vascular tumors on the scalp have an element of danger not present in angeiomata elsewhere, in that they at times grow to such an extent as to cause necrosis of the calvaria. Treatment.—Angeiomata have been known to heal without surgical inter- ference, as a result of an idiopathic inflammation. Transfixion and multiple deligation is one of the most radical and successful methods of treatment. Direct and prolonged pressure has been employed, though not with encou- raging results. Perforation with hot needles, either with or without the galvanic current, injection of coagulating fluids, particularly Monsel’s solu- tion, or of ergot, local applications of nitric acid or other escharotics, and extirpation by the knife, have all been practised. Vaccination over the growth has effected a cure in a few cases. In treating superficial angeiomata, not too extensive, and not situated where the cicatrix would prove a deformity, Billroth prefers nitric acid. For ex- tensive simple and cavernous angeiomata, he recommends the knife or scissors. vol. hi.—24