216 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Dr. Mussey, in 1837, extirpated the clavicle and scapula, six years after amputating the arm. At the moment of tying the subclavian artery, a faint gurgling sound was heard, and a bubble of air was seen in the mouth of the subclavian vein. The man uttered a faint cry; his eyes rolled and became fixed; his neck and face were covered with cold sweat; his pulse was imperceptible; there was loss of consciousness during eight or ten minutes ; finally, however, the patient recovered.1 Mr. Jessop did a primary amputation of the upper extremity, including the scapula and outer half of the clavicle, for a severe injury.2 While removing the scapula, air was heard to enter the subclavian vein. The patient was suffering from extreme shock at the time, and was almost dead ; but he rallied, and at the end of three weeks the wound was healed. The spontaneous entrance of air into the venous system has also occurred, not unfrequently, during surgical operations which laid open the lesser veins of the sub-clavicular, axillary, and sub-scapular regions, as well as those which involved the subclavian and axillary veins. For instance, on July 4,1837, Amussat extirpated the right mamma, and, while cut- ting into some suspected tissue under the right clavicle, he suddenly heard a distinct interrupted sound, as of air passing into a cavity through a narrow opening. Syncope, with cold sweats, etc., ensued, but in the end recovery took place. So, too, a case occurred to Warren, in which the air entered by the sub-scapular vein,'the coats whereof were healthy, but in a state of tension, in consequence of the position of the arm. In a case reported by Castara, there was incomplete section of a vein which opened into the sub-scapular, whilst the tumor was raised up, and in this way the air entered.3 I have thus presented nine examples in which air was drawn into the veins of the axilla, both great and small, by the movements of thoracic inspiration, during operations for amputation as well as for the extirpation of tumors. But air has often been drawn into the small veins of the neck when wounded, as well as into the large or deep jugular vein, by the movements of thoracic inspiration. I have already presented two such examples. In Du- puytren’s case, a vein communicating with the internal jugular was cut. In Beauchesne’s case, the external jugular was partially divided. Besides, there are on record at least three other cases in which air was sucked in through a wounded external jugular vein:— Rigaud4 opened a vein which he believed to be the external jugular, while ligaturing the subclavian artery above the clavicle. The sound of the drawing of air into the vein was heard three different times. Malgaigne relates a case in which the accident happened in consequence of the incom- plete section of the external jugular vein, where it was enveloped by a tumor that was being removed. Manec, while ligaturing the subclavian artery for aneurism, opened the external jugular vein, and air was drawn in. The patient’s head was thrown back; the eyes were convulsed ; the face became pale ; but recovery followed. Again, the same accident happened in a case reported by Warren, in consequence of the division of a small transverse branch of communication between the external and internal jugulars, whilst in a state of tension. Moreover, this mishap has ensued from the wounding of a small vein high up in the neck. For instance, Mott, on dividing the facial vein while removing a parotid tumor, heard the gurgling sound of air passing into some small opening. “ The breathing of the patient immediately became difficult and laborious, the heart beat violently and 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, February, 1838, p. 390. 2 British Medical Journal, January 3, 1874. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, November, 1837, p. 233. 4 Thfcse. Paris, 1836.