DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 675 Pronation is certainly more usual. There is little mobility, the bones being locked by the tension of the muscles and of the strained ligaments. The lower end of the humerus can be felt in the bend of the elbow, and the head of the radius and olecranon behind their natural position as regards the humeral condyles. The differential diagnosis of this luxation ought not to be difficult, but it has caused many mistakes even in the hands of experienced surgeons. From fractures of the condyles wherein the same backward projection of the olecranon may occur, this variety of luxation may be known by the fact that the condyles are seen or felt not to have gone back with the bones of the forearm, as well as by the absence of either crepitus or increased mobility. Amesthetics may properly be employed in cases of obscure injury about the elbow, in order that a certainty of diagnosis may be arrived at, which will enable the practitioner to treat the case intelligently, and to avoid future blame for the imperfect results which occur, especially in fractures. Reduc- tion is also easier with the aid of ether than without it. Fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, wfith backward displacement of both bones, is in fact a real dislocation complicated with fracture of the anterior border of the joint. The symptoms are the same, except as regards the presence of crepitus, and this is not always discernible; but the treatment differs in that special measures are required to prevent the bone from slipping backward again as soon as reduced. This occurrence is of itself diagnostic of fracture of the coronoid, and should be carefully looked for, and the fact determined as to whether or not there is a tendency to redisplacement. Treatment.—Several methods of reduction are successfully practised. It is sometimes sufficient to over-extend and then suddenly flex the arm while keeping up a moderate degree of traction, as shown in the annexed illustra- tion (Fig. 560). The older surgeons usually reduced this dislocation with Fig. 560. the patient in a sitting posture, by means of the knee in the elbow, as described by Sir Astley Cooper. As this would not be judicious when anaesthetics are used, this method is best modified so as to admit of keeping the patient in a horizontal position. What is desired is to place the elbow at a right angle across some fulcrum by which to pry or lift the coronoid ouf or back from behind the articular surface of the humerus, at the same time that extension is made upon the forearm. Dorsey, instead of placing the knee in the bend of the elbow, had the wrist and forearm held by an assistant, while he interlocked his fingers above the elbow and drew the humerus strongly backward. Skey employed extension with the arm straight. Liston overcame muscular resistance by means of counter-extension against the scapula and backward traction on the forearm. Hamilton uses the knee, as directed by Cooper. A modification of this method consists in placing the patient in a hori- zontal position, and making extension with the foot in the bend of the elbow,