INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 626 into France by Verneuil and Blum. At first directed only against neuralgias or cicatricial compressions of nerves, elongation was soon applied to general or partial convulsive affections by Crede, Baum, Verneuil, Gen, Pooley, and others. Langenbuch, Esmarch, Erlenmeyer, and Debove employed it in loco- motor ataxia, and finally, Lawrie, Professor of Surgery at Lahore, applied it in the treatment of anaesthetic leprosy. Pathological Anatomy.—If elongation of small-sized nerves is made with- out care, it may determine rupture of the nerve-trunks or avulsion of their roots. But this is an accident of nerve-elongation which exact investigation of the degree of resistance of different nerves will render it easy to avoid. In elongation practised within the limits which wTill be hereafter indicated, the nerve itself most often does not present any lesion appreciable to the naked eye; the only macroscopic lesions consist in a laceration of the sheath, which gives rise to an audible crackling, and in a rupture of the vessels which are distributed in its interior. These lesions will be more widely distributed if during the operation the limb is not kept extended ; flexion, indeed, per- mits the nerve to be drawn much further from its place. According to the experiments of Tutschek, the vascular lesions are more marked at certain points which correspond generally to the passage of the nerve into an orifice, or across a fibrous partition. Authors are not agreed as to the histological lesions consecutive to nerve-elon- gation. According to Valentin, most frequently nothing abnormal is found; according to Schleich, the modifications undergone by the nerve consist in a more or less extended coagulation of the myelin; TarchanofF has observed, immediately after the elongation, traces of hypersemia and capillary hemorrhages, and the division, in a certain number of nerve-fibres, of the myelin and axis-cylinders, the sheath of Schwann remaining always intact; finally, Scheving, examining elongated nerves after a certain time, found healthy fibres, especially at the centre of the nerve; fibres in a state of second- ary degeneration, above and below the point of elongation; and some fibres in process of regeneration. In fine, elongation seems to cause most frequently the rupture of a certain number of nerve fasciculi. Forcible elongation of large nerve-trunks affects even the spinal cord. By carrying the elongation further, avulsion of the nerve is produced, either at a point where it is reflected upon itself, or at its root. It may be added that Blum has proposed avulsion as a mode of treating obstinate neuralgia of the superior maxillary nerve. If simple elongation is replaced by elongation with crushing of the nerve on the groove of a director, as is done by Verneuil, or between forceps, there will be evidently observed a grinding and more or less complete division of the nerve-trunk, thus producing a kind of sub-neurilemmatous neurotomy. Physiology.—The physiology of the elongation of nerves includes an in- quiry into the resistance and extensibility of the nerve-trunks, and a study of the effect of elongation upon their functions. The principal experiments upon the resistance of nerves to traction are those of Tillaux and Trombetta. The results obtained by these two authors are quite different. Thus, Tillaux caused rupture of the sciatic nerve with a mean force of 58 kilogrammes (128' lbs. Av.),1 while Trombetta had to em- ploy a force of 84 kilogrammes (185 lbs. Av.); but the great difference in the processes used, must be taken into account. Tillaux, who made his ex- 1 Symington Johnson caused rupture of this nerve with a mean weight of 59 kilogrammes <130 lbs. Av.). Lancet, 1878, vol. i. p. 904.