618 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. tion, during the height of this disease, has not the dangers which might theoretically seem connected with it. Neurotomy, the efficacy of which has been made unquestionable by the in- stantaneous amelioration and rapid recovery which have followed it in some cases, has the inconvenience of always leaving as a result a more or less com- plete paralysis, notwithstanding the possible re-establishment of the nervous functions by regeneration, or through collateral channels. It is especially indicated when the spasms begin near the seat of injury, before their gene- ralization ; but it may still contribute much to recovery when generalization has occurred, by removing the cause which keeps up the spinal irritation. The choice of the nerve to be cut, is determined by the surgeon’s knowledge of anatomy, by the pain upon pressure, and, when this symptom exists, by the course of the tetanic aura, which then constitutes the most precise indication for the operation. The operation should be done as soon as possible, and at a greater distance from the wound as it is more delayed, on account of the pos- sible development of an ascending neuritis. The incision should he small, and should be dressed with care, so as not to create a new cause of irritation. Polyneurotomy has the inconvenience of increasing the traumatism, and of leaving as a result a too great infirmity. I shall refer to this point again in connection with the operations which are practised upon nerves. Together with neurotomy are to be considered the crushing and elongation of nerves, which are indicated by the same conditions. The crushing of nerves acts also in interrupting the nervous current; it has, perhaps, the in- convenience of being less certain, but the persistence of the neurilemma renders more constant and more rapid the regeneration of the nerve-trunks. Finally, the operation of elongation or stretching, which only momentarily interrupts the conductibility of the nerves, has the great advantage of not leaving after it persistent paralysis; this more easily permits the surgeon, in the absence of precise indications, to operate upon several nerves of a limb, or even upon all, which certain writers have laid down as a rule. Already several cases of nerve-elongation in tetanus, followed by recovery, have been reported. If its efficacy were demonstrated, it would be preferable to both division and crushing of nerves. The internal medication intended to modify the condition of the nerve- centres should always be associated with the local treatment. Considering spinal congestion as the cause of the symptoms, antiphlogistic, contra-stimu- lating, and alterative remedies have been recommended, with the application of revulsives along the spine. Labbee refers to a patient of Lisfranc’s, who recovered after 19 bleedings and the application of 772 leeches. This method may be of service, employed in more moderate measure, in some cases. Among remedies which have been especially resorted to in tetanus must be mentioned chloral and opium. Chloral, though indicated by its physiological properties and its special action upon the reflex function of the spinal cord, has never arrested the dis- ease, as has neurotomy, for example, and does not prevent its offensive recur- rences ; but it quiets the spasms in an unquestionable manner, and, if it has often failed, perhaps because local treatment and the maintenance of good surrounding conditions have been neglected, nothing proves that some cases of tetanus which have remained local with chloral would not have become generalized without it. In every case it is a very useful adjuvant, which gives the patient comfort, and permits the disease to run its course without mortal accident. Nevertheless, it does not always prevent death from occurring by nervous exhaustion, notwithstanding the localization of the spasms; perhaps even some deaths which have taken place in collapse may have been due to its use in too large quantities. It may be administered by