ANEURISM OF FIRST PART OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 505 first shows itself above the middle, or rather a little outside the middle, of the clavicle; frequently that bone is very early in the case pushed forward, and soon beats with a communicated pulsation; especially is this the case in feeble persons and in women. When the shoulder begins to rise, one may see the throb in the little triangle hounded above by the clavicle, at the sides by the deltoid and greater pectoral. In all cases, the pulsation is strong, while the radial pulse on the diseased side is weakened. The aneurism, unless it encroaches on the proximal part of the vessel, never pulsates in the episternal notch; venous congestion of the arm only comes on when the tumor is large; congestion of the face and neck is absent. The disease is peculiarly liable to begin about the lower margin of the first rib, and to spread thence either downward, when it becomes high axillary aneurism, or upward, when it comes under the category of pure subclavian aneurism; not infrequently it spreads in both directions; it is then subclavio- axillary. The extension upwards is, as a rule, checked by the scaleni, which, supporting the vessel on all sides, prevent dilatation; but in some cases, those, namely, in which atheroma extensively affects the whole arterial sys- tem, the second part may be involved with the first, or with the third ; or, indeed, the whole vessel, from beginning to end, may be affected generally by dilatation (fusiform aneurism). In such cases, the tumor is very generally constricted where it passes between the scaleni, so as to assume an hour-glass form. Aneurism never, I believe, begins in the second part of the vessel. The pressure symptoms vary somewhat according to the size of the tumor, its exact place on the vessel, and the direction of its growth; thus, while pressure merely implicates the nerves of the arm and shoulder, with slight enlargement of veins—chiefly those about the acromion and the external jugular—we have to do with an aneurism of only the third part, or encroach- ing but slightly on the second ; but more marked venous congestion, espe- cially if it implicate only the arm and hand, points to extension of disease towards the axilla. If, on the contrary, the face and neck—the whole jugular venous system—becomes engorged, the disease is intruding inwards towards the first part of the artery; and this diagnosis is greatly strengthened if some loss or diminished resonance of voice, and a certain teasing, irregular, laryngeal cough, be observed. The third part of the subclavian artery is aneurismal about six times as often as the first part,1 and is three and a half times more common on the right side than on the left, and about ten times more [frequent among men than among women. In about one-eleventh of all the cases of subclavian aneurism, the first part alone of the vessel (on the right side) is involved, and even of this proportion the immunity of the rest of the artery is in a certain fraction doubtful. The first part of the left subclavian artery develops aneurism (unless merely as forming part of aortic disease) very exceptionally. Aneurism of First Part of Subclavian Artery.—An aneurism of the first part of the right subclavian shows itself by a tumor, which generally appears under the clavicular part of the sterno-inastoid muscle; it lies, there- fore, a little outside the place where carotid aneurism first appears. The shape vened, and gradually increased, for four months ; after that time he came to me, and, on exami- nation, I found the subclavian artery, which lay high, heating violently. The space, however, was puffy, and swollen beyond the limit of pulsation ; the artery appeared to me flattened rather than dilated; hut in a case of such difficulty and importance I conceived it my duty to ask for a consultation. Sir J. Paget, examining the case with me, confirmed my view of its non-aneu- rismal nature, and expressed the opinion that neuritis of the brachial plexus produced the pains and pressed the artery forward. Under treatment founded on this diagnosis, and on the gouty habit of the patient, he slowly recovered. 1 I include subclavio-axillary aneurism in this computation.