168 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. things which the surgeon may do can promote the closure of the torn artery and the absorption of the extravasated blood, more effectually than the fixed position, absolute quietude, and equable support of the injured part, with general quietude of the whole body, which the fracture and its dressings en- force. Compression, digital or instrumental, of the main artery, should always be thoroughly tried in the thigh and arm, as well as in the cases of this acci- dent occurring in the leg, before resorting to the “ old operation,” or to liga- tion of the main artery on Hunter’s plan. There is good ground for hope that almost all arteries of the extremities, both lower and upper, when wounded in cases of. simple fracture, will heal when the fixed position and quietude, just mentioned, are supplemented by adequate compression of the parent vessel. The appearance of gangrene in such cases necessitates the immediate performance of amputation. But traumatic aneurisms resulting from fractures are not confined to the regions of the leg, thigh, and arm; they are also found in any part of the body where an artery lies sufficiently near the bone to he pierced or torn by its broken fragments. Mr. Busk and Mr. Curling have each placed on record a case in which a traumatic aneurism formed upon the ophthalmic artery in consequence of fracture of the base of the skull. In both cases the carotid artery was tied, and in both with complete success.1 Gunshot Wounds op Arteries. The large arteries of the extremities are, to a considerable extent, protected from gunshot perforations, by the strength of the fibrous sheaths which in- vest them, by the toughness aAd extensibility of their own tunics, and by the readiness with which they can slip aside from the track of a gunshot missile, owing to the fact that they are elastic tubes, and that their contents are liquid. By these means, doubtless, the large bloodvessels often escape lacerations from bullets; and in this way we can account for the fact that such arteries as the femoral, the carotid, and the brachial are found to be practically uninjured, although lying exactly in what appears to he the track of the missile. The late civil war furnished numerous examples. “ A num- ber of drawings at the Army Medical Museum, exhibiting the course of balls directly in the track of the great bloodvessels of the neck or of the limbs, illustrate the fact, so well known to military surgeons, of the great resiliency of the large arteries.”2 The surgical historian of the British Army in the Crimean War justly observes :J— “ The amount of this resiliency of the large arteries of a limb is much greater than is usually supposed. Thus, in a soldier of the 56th Regiment, a fragment of shell passed through the ham, between the artery and the bone, without injuring either, although it was much too large to have done so without displacing the vessel. The man afterwards died of diarrhoea. In the 9th Regiment a similar case occurred, but in it a portion of the bone was scooped out by the missile, and the man recovered. In the 47th Regiment, a large piece of shell passed through the upper third of the thigh, between the artery and the bone, but injured neither, and recovery took place.”3 Notwithstanding this wonderful resiliency of the arteries of the neck and extremities, which oftentimes enables them to escape all serious injury even when they appear to lie exactly in the track of wounds made by gunshot missiles, it not unfrequently happens that they sustain solutions of continuity 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vols. xxii, xxxvii. 2 Circular No. 6, S. G. 0., p. 39. * Surgical History of the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 340.