ANEURISM. 508 a little time, the sternal end of the clavicle protrudes abnormally and partakes in the pulsation (communicated), while the sternal and afterwards the clavi- cular portion of the sterno-mastoid is also pushed forward. Not unfrequently the first costal cartilage, outside where it joins the sternum, is also abnormally prominent, and throbs with the beat of the tumor. These parts are dull on percussion; there is a peculiarity in the dulness of aneurism, which should be observed, namely, that in the centre it is complete, but at the circumference, on each side, incomplete or relative, gradually, as we go outwards, merging into the clear percussion note. Downward, the want of resonance usually mingles with the normal, aortic, and further downward and to the left, with the cardiac dulness. But occasionally, especially if some dyspnoea exist, a significant, resonant space lies over the sternum, between the second costal cartilages, dividing the cardiac from the tumor dulness. Its appreciation depends on the mode of percussion; gentle taps elicit hyper-resonance; heavier blows the deeper dulness. This condition is produced by an emphysematous lung-margin, overlying the commencement of the aorta. The pulsation is most marked where dulness is most complete, but extends even into the limits of relative dulness. Occasionally, a pretty evident throb may be felt beyond the dull region. The area of pulsation, Fi°-. 543. until the tumor is large, may be taken as in the annexed dia- gram. The stethoscope detects over all this space the heart- sounds, with exaggerated dis- tinctness ; but they are altered in a way that has been insuffi- ciently, if at all, pointed out, viz., while both are heard as plainly as, perhaps even more plainly than, over the cardiac space itself, it is the second sound which is more especially exaggerated, and this is often louder than the first; the thin- ner the wall of the aneurism, and the freer from any lining of blood-clot, the more predomi- nant is this second heart-sound. The pulses of the right radial, and of the carotid and its branches, are altered, weak, and compressible. These signs are such as we meet with in the form of disease which affects the upper part of the trunk, and either commences in or tends to carotid complication. But cases occur in which the tumor lies more outward in the episternal notch, and in which it may be felt along a certain distance of the clavicle, the symptoms being those of innominate and subclavian aneurism combined. The pressure symptoms of innominate aneurism are very variable: some- times slight, sometimes remarkably severe. If the high form of the disease be on the inner aspect of the artery, there is at first a constant, teasing cough; this afterwards gives place, as the tumor grows, to dyspnoea, with paroxysms of coughing and breathlessness that seem about to prove fatal, until relieved by discharge of mucus or muco-pus. No venous pressure is demonstrable until the disease has attained considerable dimensions. When the tumor lies Area of pulsation in early innominate aneurism.