CAUSES OF ANEURISM. 383 erecl a deposit from the blood (Auflagerung) to be the initial step. But since the appearance of the Cellular Pathology of Virchow, whose views are fol- lowed by Viemeyer1 and Moxon,2 it appeal’s that the inflammatory nature of both atheroma and ossification must be accepted; the Berlin Professor’s ex- cellent account of the condition, traced from its initial to its terminal phases, can hardly be improved. Peri-arteritis.—Disease of the outer arterial tunic, peri-arteritis, is of small importance; it is nearly always consecutive to, and directly dependent upon, inflammation of the neighboring tissues, as in suppurative or phlegmonous inflammation. The possibility of abscess opening into arteries is undoubted, and will again be mentioned, while the diminution of extensibility which may arise from adhesion of the outer coat to surrounding inflammatory thickenings, has together with its effects been already discussed. The middle coat generally participates in the diseases of both the outer and the inner tunic, and we know nothing of any active disease affecting this structure independently. But we do know a good deal of a fatty degeneration which not unfrequently attacks, and is for some time confined to, the middle coat. It assumes the simple form of such degeneration, as we see it in the muscles of the heart, in the articular cartilages^ or other cellular organs: namely, a massing of oil molecules, at first, within the lumen of, then also around, the cell. It is this condition which gives rise to long and but little accentuated fusiform aneurisms, or to aneurismal dilatations, and is, in all probability, the constant cause of multiplicity of aneurisms—the aneurismal diathesis. Moreover, irrepressible, consecutive and secondary hemorrhages have very commonly a similar origin. Endarteritis is, however, the most important of all the arterial diseases with which we have to do; it may be either acute or chronic, though acute endarteritis is certainly very rare.3 I have never seen an idiopathic case of the malady in an open artery, but several instances of plugging and subsequent endarteritis have come under my notice. Of traumatic endarteritis I can give the following very striking example:— Case IV—R. W. was a man for whom I had tied the right carotid and subclavian arteries. Twenty-six days afterwards he complained of a burning and aching pain along the course of the brachial, ulnar, and radial vessels of that side. The temperature had varied from 97° to 102° Fahr., morning and evening. His diet had, till six days pre- vious, been dry and restricted, but was at this time an ordinary full diet. He had no pulse either at the wrist, or in the brachial or lower part of the axillary artery. On the morning of the 9th of September, the day in question, he complained of peculiar, hot, ting- ling pain from the shoulder to the hand, along the course of the arteries, which felt hard 1 Lehrbuch der speciellen Pathologie und Therapie, 9te Auflage, Bd. i. S. 357. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 3d series, vol. xvi. p. 431 et seq. 3 Some surgical writers describe acute or subacute arteritis, its symptoms and effects, in a manner which facts, as far as we know them, do not authorize. The “plastic or embolic arte- ritis” described by Erichsen, and for proof of the existence of which he refers to the effects of pressure, as by a tumor, or the action of a ligature, never arises sud sponte in a previously health y artery, though plugging by an embolus from the heart, or occlusion by pressure, will cause coagula to form, and subsequently to become adherent to the now disused vessel. The inner coats of an artery tied with silk, are divided, and the wound throws out an adhesive material; but there is no reason to believe that any part of an acting and still patent artery can become gradually occluded by the solidification of fibrine thrown out from its own inner surface. Neither clinical nor patho- logical observation can furnish a single instance of such an occurrence. Mr. Erichsen, in his two short paragraphs concerning plastic endarteritis (Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. pp. 1- 3), appears to me to have overlooked the presence of the intra-vascular wound in tied arteries, and there is therefore a non-sequitur involved in his second proposition.