690 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. to convert the injury into a forward dislocation. I have repeatedly seen this in experimenting upon the cadaver with the rotation method, hut not with the traction manipulation, and I do not believe it possible with the latter. Fig. 568. Mechanism of reduction of dorsal dislocation by rotation. (Bigelow.) II. Backward Dislocation Below the Tendon of the Obturator Internus.. —The dislocation described by Sir Astley Cooper as occurring directly back- ward into the sciatic notch, probably does not exist as in any way clearly dis- tinct from other backward dislocations in general. Among these it is true that there are variations in direction and in the amount of displacement, hut not differences of kind. Their general symptoms are alike, and their proper treatment identical, and they should therefore be regarded as belonging to a single species in any clinical classification. On the other hand, when the head of the bone has passed below instead of above the tendon of the obturator internus, a new relation of parts is de- veloped, and new principles of treatment must be invoked, by reason of certain mechanical obstacles which have to be overcome in reduction. These are the luxations which were formerly described as “ischiatic dislocations,” and which were believed to be mostly irreducible. Causes.—It is not certainly known from clinical experience what particu- lar form of injury produces the dislocation below, rather than that above the- tendon of the obturator. Writers assume that the causes are the same as those which cause the other backward forms of luxation, except that the thigh is more flexed at the time of the injury, and that the direction of the force is more downward, so that the capsule gives wray at a point below, instead of above, the tendon of the obturator. Symptoms.—Bigelow says that there is extreme inversion in this luxation,, and also an unusual amount of adduction, so that the affected thigh lies across its fellow as high as the middle third. The limb, however, may not be short- ened, and may even hang lower than the other, when the patient is in the upright position. Pathology.—As already mentioned, the head of the femur, in this form of luxation, slips below the obturator internus tendon. As soon as the thigh is-