INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 594 nerve-fibres become covered with a medullary sheath, and assume all the characters of myelinic nerve-fibres.” From what has been said, it can be seen that, without denying the genesis in loco of the nerve-fibres (Virchow), several authors admit that most often they trace their origin from the budding of the axis-cylinders; this also ac- counts for the change of amyelinic into myelinic fibres. Several neuromata may be united so as to form a globular mass, or the different neuromata of a stump may be joined by loops (Larrey). Virchow admits that tumors of the same nature may be developed along the course of the nerves in the neighborhood of other chronic changes. Reuillet has published the case of a man thirty-five years old, who at the age of six years had a fracture of the right humerus with a wound ; at the autopsy there were found an increase in size of the cervico-dorsal nerves, which presented tumors along their course, and an increase in size of the ganglions of the roots of the nerves, and of the spinal cord in the cervico- dorsal region. There were secondary lesions of the articulations and of the muscles. These changes in the nervous system were attributed to an irrita- tion of the peripheral nerves, which had caused hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the nerve-fasciculi. Tripier has pointed out that in this case the tumors were formed by medullary fibres due to a multiplication of the axis-cylinders. (3) Plexiform. Neuroma.—Under the name of plexiform neuroma, or cylindrical neuroma, Verneuil described, in 1861, a variety of congenital tumor which he had observed for the first time in 1857, with Depaul; the case was one of tumor of the nucha, with hypertrophy of the skin, which formed a large fold. The mass of the tumor described by Verneuil, was formed of elon- gated nerves, twined around like a bunch of varicose veins, and presenting anastomoses, with enlargements analogous to neuromata. These hypertro- phied cutaneous nerves made up two-thirds of the mass of the tumor {cirsoid neuromata of Burns and Rizzoli). Among the nerve-trunks, some were formed of one, two, or three nerve-fibres, and of fibro-plastic tissue; others were almost exclusively composed of nerve-fibres, with a double or single contour. In 1859, Guersant presented to the Society of Surgery a young girl, who had, in the mastoid region, a congenital tumor of the same nature, as was demonstrated by the anatomical examination made by Verneuil. Alongside of these cases should be placed those of tumor of the skin described by Valentine Mott (1854) under the name of pachydermatocele, and those'which Gayet has reported under the name of general connective-tissue hypertrophy. Billroth, in 1869, published a case of plexiform neuro-fibroma of the upper eyelid and of the temple. Numerous cases have since been added to the above; but authors are not yet agreed as to their interpretation. Virchow joins in one and the same category the cases of Verneuil and those of Valentine Mott, and refers them to congenital elephantiasis. He considers as cases of acquired elephantiasis, a case of Verneuil’s, of plexiform neuroma of the prepuce, and two cases of Chelius and of Barkow, in which, following an injury, there supervened a swelling of the inferior extremity with chaplet-like hypertrophy of the tibial nerve. This form of nerve-hypertrophy might perhaps be compared with the case of Reuillet and Tripier, cited above in connection with neuro- mata properly so called. Cartaz, in 1876, gave a description of plexiform neuroma based upon thir- teen cases. The tumor presents itself in the form of a diffuse, flabby swell- ing, in the midst of which are felt cords which glide from under the finger;