ANEURISM. 526 itself, and, not having the stimulus of the expansile throb, does not con- tract fully. An aneurism situated less directly on the course of the artery examined, causes changes less easily described, because more varied—a less sloping upstroke, and all beyond represented by a zigzag line running down to the bottom of the next upstroke—and to the finger gives the sensation of a weak pulse, with a thrill or vibration. (3) Dyspnoea and other respiratory troubles are among the most distressing symptoms of aneurism at the upper part of the chest and root of the neck; indeed, many cases of the disease prove fatal merely by obstruction of the air- passages. These troubles are of two kinds, produced, the one by direct pres- sure on the trachea, bronchi, or both, the other by interference with the recur- rent laryngeal nerve. ISTor are these forms difficult to distinguish from each other. The first produces dyspnoea from obstruction, and on applying a stetho- scope to the chest, a peculiar, harsh, loud, bellows or organ-pipe sound, is heard, at first only on inspiration; afterwards, when the obstruction is more marked, the expiratory murmur is altered in a like manner. If the pressure be on the trachea, this sound is equal in both lungs; if it be on a bronchus, it will be very much more marked on one side than on the other. It is always heard on both sides, unless the point of partial occlusion be very low down, since the irregularities in the current of air affect the stream much above the actual seat of obstruction, though more slightly. Subsequently, if the bronchus be- come altogether closed, no sound—not even the respiratory murmur—is heard. These symptoms are continuous, but every now and then there arise severe paroxysms of violent efforts for breath; the chest heaves, the veins of the head and neck swell, the face becomes livid, a little air wheezes in and out, and severe, brassy cough adds to the distress until a little thick mucus is ex- pectorated. The quieter phase is then restored until another mass of secreted material obstructs the already too narrow channel. With all this, the voice, unless in the exacerbation, is not particularly weakened; nay, sometimes it is rather loud and metallic. The other form commences with changes in the voice, first of all in the tone, which is high, squeaky, and false—or whispering, with muffled falsetto. If dyspnoea occur at all, it does so early in the case, the symptoms resembling those of laryngismus stridulus.1 It is under such circumstances also paroxys- mal, but less frequent and more periodical than in the previously described variety. After an interval, aphonia, sometimes complete, sets in, and there may be considerable tendency to choking at meals, that is, to the food pass- ing into the wind-pipe. Examination with the laryngoscope will show that the former condition depends upon tightness (spasm) of one vocal cord, rarely of both; the latter on paralysis.2 In some cases the dyspnoea and violent cough (tracheal or bronchial symptoms) coexist with the laryngeal troubles. (4) Dysphagia from pressure on the oesophagus is nearly always a later sign than tracheal or bronchial dyspnoea. The patient finds a difficulty in swallowing, at first solids, and afterwards even liquids. By listening a little on the left side of the last cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae, while the patient is swallowing a teaspoonful of water, a prolonged, reduplicated effort at de- glutition will generally reveal, even before the patient is himself aware of it, obstruction in the gullet. * Tracheotomy has been more than once performed. 2 Dr. Baumler and Dr. George Johnson showed specimens, in 1871 and 1872 respectively, in which, by the .pressure of an aneurism, both vocal cords were paralyzed (Pathological Trans- actions, vol. xxiii. p. 66, and vol. xxiv. p. 42). In both cases, however, there must have been considerable pressure on the trachea itself (in the former only is it distinctly mentioned), and to this I would attribute the partial paralysis of the right laryngeal muscles, the nerves of which were not directly compressed by the sac. The fact that such tracheal obstruction can take place, must inculcate caution in the interpretation of this symptom.