474 ANEURISM. contrary, a bag of purulent fluid, fluctuating from without to within the cavity, may be discovered. The first condition only is absolutely diagnostic; the others, however, greatly aid. The same investigation should be made if there be doubt concerning some tumor of bone. It is hardly possible that such a tumor should be marked on the outside of the pelvis without giving some sign within the cavity. In many cases all care and acumen will still leave some ambiguity, which the use of a fine exploratory trocar will set aside. When thus employed, positive evidence—that is, the appearance of pus—must, be obtained before any such adventurous measure as incision is practised. Treatment.—Several methods of treatment are open to the surgeon, the most important being (1) Rest and expectancy, (2) Pressure, (3) Injection, (4) Opening the sac (Antyllus), (5) Tying the gluteal or the sciatic artery as it leaves the pelvis (Anel), and (6) Deligation of the internal iliac artery. (1) The first (expectant method), provided the aneurism do not grow, may be carried on as long as the sufferer’s patience will last; but these aneurisms do not long remain stationary. (2) Direct compression and proximal pressure on the aorta have not proved of value. In one case,1 indeed, a certain improvement took place; but in three years the aneurism returned. (3) Injection of a coagulating fluid (perchloride of iron) has proved valuable when the aneurism has been distinctly sacculated. (4) Opening the sac and tying the vessel below the tumor, and also above, that is, at its exit from the sciatic foramen, may be undertaken under certain circumstances. Thus if the disease have been produced by recent injury, it probably affects only some part of the artery lying outside the pelvis, in which case the procedure in question will be applicable; but even an aneu- rism thus produced, and the more likely if it be of some little standing—and still more probably if it be of spontaneous origin—may extend beyond these con- fines, and a portion of it may be within the pelvis, and thus beyond reach. If by any chance the Antyllian method were used in such a case, death could hardly be escaped; therefore no such operation should be undertaken unless previous rectal examination had shown the artery to be sound. (5) AneVs Method.—If the vessel be found healthy, either deligation of the sciatic or gluteal, as the case may be, can be undertaken with some little prospect of success. In either procedure one of the vessels above should be commanded ; the aorta can usually be efficiently compressed in a thin person; if the individual be stout, Davy’s lever will insure entire, or almost entire, bloodlessness. My own experience of this instrument is not very favorable ; it is apt to produce bruising and inflammation of the iliac vein. The surgeon undertaking either operation ought to know that the sac lies much nearer to the surface than would a priori be supposed: the gluteus becomes spread out over it, the fascia becomes much thinned, and even the fat of this region may, to a great extent, disappear. The aneurism may be divided by a con- striction into two portions (“ hour glass”), or may split into prolongations (“ digitated”) in the direction of branches. The mouth of a sciatic aneurism lies lower than that of a gluteal, and in attempting to secure the vessel after the method of Anel, much difficulty may be experienced in deciding which of the two arteries requires deligation. (6) Deligation of both the internal and common iliac arteries has been prac- tised for this aneurism, but the results are not encouraging; the latter opera- tion would of course only be undertaken if the condition of the internal branch rendered the application of a ligature to it injudicious or very difficult. 1 Riberi, Giornale delie Seienze Med. di Torino, 1833.