692 INJUKIES OP THE JOINTS. powerful band, which now lies tightly strung across the upper part of the femoral neck. In attempting the reduction of such a luxation, the surgeon should proceed as follows: With the patient upon his back, the knee is carried across the opposite thigh to a position of extreme adduction, and from thence swept upward, horizontally toward the abdomen, until it is believed that the head of the bone has traversed downward below the tendon. Then the thigh is raised to a vertical position, and the head of the hone will he unlocked from the obturator tendon, and will lie simply in the position of a backward dislo- cation. Any of the methods already described for the reduction of backward dislocations, will now replace the bone in its socket without unusual difficulty. Thus the traction method of manipulation may be tried (see page 686), or the force of the hands may be assisted by a bar passed beneath the bend of the knee, or the patient may be laid face downward with his thighs hanging over the edge of a table, while the surgeon uses his hand or foot to make traction downward. The rotation method of manipulation may also be invoked, exactly as in a case of dislocation above the tendon. Failure will sometimes occur in spite of the best directed efforts, when the head of the femur has gone below the tendon, to disengage it by any manipu- lation yet discovered. After a thorough trial of the methods which have been described, the imperative necessity of obtaining reduction will justify the employment of no less severe a procedure than the rupturing of the ob- turator tendon, in order to restore the bones to their normal position. The method of effecting this will next be detailed. Manipulation to Rupture the Tendon of the Obturator Internus.—Recourse may be had to this extreme measure when other means have failed. The severity of the injury inflicted is not great, and by means of it, cases formerly con- sidered hopeless may readily be reduced. On account of the serious nature of the deformity caused by a permanent dislocation, there would seem to be abundant reason for undertaking even a much more severe operation, could success be attained by it. All authorities agree in sanctioning the measure as a last resort. The manipulation consists mainly in circumduction of the limb while in the extended position. Let the femur be adducted and held at the same time flat upon the table or bed, with the thigh kept back at extreme extension. Now let it be swept strongly outward against whatever resistance it may encounter, until the tendon is believed to be torn across. In this movement, the neck of the femur is forced backward and upward directly in opposition to the tense muscle and tendon, and must tear their fibres asunder before it can be pushed far. Older Methods of reducing Backward Dislocations of the Hip.—The obsolete methods of reducing luxations of the thigh-bone, recommended by Sir Astley Cooper and others, were briefly as follows:— The patient was first freely bled, to induce a tendency to syncope and re- laxation. Nausea was also produced by antimony, and relaxation further favored by placing the patient in hot baths. Although too much importance was then attached to muscular rigidity, and too little to ligamentous resis- tance, there can be no doubt that the treatment pursued tended greatly to assist-reduction, and might even now sometimes be called for, were we not in possession of a far more efficient means of obtaining relaxation, in the in- duction of anaesthesia. The patient was next placed upon the operating table, and secured by a strong perineal band passed between the thighs, and carried upward and outward to some staple, ringbolt, or other firm object, for counter-extension