453 ANEURISM OE THE DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. form bone; the further forward its place, the more likely is it to be serious and difficult of management, as, when it lies at the root of the metatarsus, the branch communicating with the plantar arch is likely to be involved, and some part of the aneurism will then be interosseous. The size is usually about that of a hazel-nut; but it may reach that of a bantam’s egg. The following table shows the result of treatment in the fourteen cases the man- agement and fate of which have been ascertained. It will be seen that pres- sure succeeded, although with difficulty, twice, and failed seven times; in two of the unsuccessful cases, death was the direct result of the treatment. Liga- ture, either above, or both above and below, was practised seven times: three times after failure of pressure—in these cases a successful result followed— and four times primarily; in two of these, simple deligation was followed by opening the sac and amputation; in one, simple failure is recorded; in another, death followed. Coagulating injections were employed twice, and each time successfully. Opening the sac was practised four times, and the end in all but one case was death. Treatment. Result. Cause of death or amputation. Failure Success. Ligature above and below Death Gangrene. Pressure severe Cure Pressure indirect Ligature above Cure Pressure indirect Death Gangrene and rupture of sac. Ligature and opening sac Amputation Gangrene and hemorrhage. Pressvire indirect prolonged Ligature above Cure Pressure indirect Ligature peroneal1 Cure Pressure indirect Coagulating injection Cure Ligature above Failure2 Esmarch. Pressure. Open- ) ing sac 5 Death Gangrene and hemorrhage. Pressure direct and ) Cure indirect $ Pressure. Opening sac Death Hemorrhage. Esmarch. Several times ) galvano-puncture } Coagulating injection Cure Ligature. Opening sac Amputation Survived.3 The inferences are, if we accept the teaching of so small an experience, clear: Hot to open the sac, not merely on empirical, but also on anatomical grounds. To employ direct pressure, which at this part is very painful, tentatively only; and unless it bring marked amelioration, not to continue it very long. Indirect pressure at this part is exceedingly painful, nor is any form, save on the femoral, capable of controlling pulsation. I would suggest the use, with or without an anaesthetic, of the Esmarch bandage, applied in the erect posture that the sac may be full—the tumor being omitted from the coils of the bandage—followed, after an hour, by instrumental pressure with Signoroni’s tourniquet on the femoral, alternating with digital pressure on the dorsal artery as it passes over the margin of the trochlea astragali. In case these fail* the choice lies between coagulating injections and the ligature. How no part of the body could be better adapted for the use of a coagulating fluid than the dorsum of the foot—there being so little beyond the sac which could be injured by its action; nevertheless, the arteries beyond must first, if possible, be occluded, and the femoral above restrained—the sac should be 1 In this case the surgeon out down on the anterior tibial, but could not discover it, finding two veins (?) instead. 2 Patient left hospital with tumor still pulsating. 3 The sac did not apparently need to be opened.