343 SYPHILITIC ARTERITIS. arranged with great regularity parallel to the contour of the wall of the artery. Where the wall of the vessel external to the elastic lamina is thickest, these spindle cells are more numerous and have a greater transverse diameter than at the narrower portions, where they seem to have elongated and be- come thinner—seemingly a true process of fibrillation and contraction of embryonic (inflammatory) cells. Continuing the examination further inwards, as the white, wavy, elastic zone is crossed, just within and almost in exact apposition with this is a some- what irregular and thin layer of cells, fusiform in section, varying in depth from a single row to two or three rows, and in some points entirely absent. These are doubtless a remnant of the original endothelia of the intima; just internal to these, and in fact continuous with them, is the great mass of new-formed, inflammatory tissue which juts into the lumen of the vessel. This mass is composed of large, mostly fusiform, cells, distinctly nucleated and occupying about as much space as the intercellular substance in which they are imbedded. (The space seen in some portions of the section between the wavy elastic line and the cell mass in the lumen of the vessel is due to cleavage or splitting oft* in making the section.) The following conclusions I have arrived at from the study of this case:— (1) The elastic tunic is very slightly if at all changed by the inflammatory process in syphilitic arteritis. If there he any change, it is due to a corrugation or wrinkling of this tunic in the process of contraction. (2) The external coat is irregularly thickened, and appears nodular on transverse and longitudinal section. This thickening is the result of the syphilitic inflammatory process, and the external layers of inflammatory corpuscles difl'er from those (and the greater portion) which form the hulk of the changed external tunic. (3) The chief lesion in syphilitic arteritis is situated in the intima, and is due in the main to active proliferation of the normal cells of this tunic. Syphilitic arteritis has been made the subject of special study by Cornil, Heubner, Greenfield, Barlow, Buzzard, Davidson, Simes, White, and others. Greenfield, in the Transactions of the London Pathological Society for 1877, gives an analysis of twenty-two cases of visceral syphilis. His cases and report are so instructive, and give evidence of such careful study of this important subject, that I quote them almost in full. Of the 22 patients, 13 were females, 9 males. Their ages varied from twenty-three to fifty years. Of the females, four were between the ages of 23 and 25, one was 35, one 38, the remainder between 40 and 50. Of the males, four were between 30 and 40, the rest between 40 and 50. These patients did not all die from syphilis, some perishing from other and concomitant diseases. Of those who died from the effects of syphilis, the greater number were comparatively young. Of the four females under 25 years of age, two died from the effects of thrombosis of the cerebral arteries, one from syphilitic disease of the larynx, and one from accident. Of the six males under 40, one died from syphilitic disease of the cerebral arteries, one from gummata of the brain and dura mater, one from pneumonia due to syphilitic disease of the larynx and trachea, one from renal disease consequent upon stricture, and another by accident. The following table from this close observer is so interesting in the demon- stration which it gives of the frequency of arterial lesions in the later stages of syphilitic disease, that I copy it entire.