737 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP JOINTS. advocates conservative treatment. Guthrie, in his Commentaries on the Crimean War, advocated delay when only the patella was moderately frac- tured. The late Dr. J. M. Woodworth, Medical Director of the Army of the Tennessee, in the War of the Rebellion, advocated amputation whenever the joint was opened, even without fracture of the bones. In view of all experience, we must agree that, unless the plan of clearing the joint and treating it, wide open, with antiseptics, shall establish itself, we know of no treatment for comminuted, gunshot fracture of the knee equal to primary amputation ; at the same time, the superiority of this method over conservative treatment is only seven per cent., and it is probable that in slight marginal fractures, and mere openings of the capsule, thoroughly antiseptic conservatism would be safer than amputation. Resection of the knee gives results fully as bad as conservative treatment, and, in the present state of our art, should be mostly rejected from military practice. Gunshot Fracture of the Ankle-joint.—This injury presents wide varia- tions, from a simple rasping of the articular margin of the bone, to a total destruction of the joint and of the adjacent arteries and nerves. When the projectile traverses the articulation, it reduces the interior to a mass of bony and cartilaginous fragments, as already described in the case of the knee. This mass of bony gravel acts as a violent, mechanical irritant, causing burrowing, septic abscesses, caries, exhaustion, and often death. In some cases the tibia is shattered upward for several inches, and even where this has not occurred, the vessels are often destroyed so as to cause mortification of the foot. The circulation may in certain cases he sufficiently preserved to avoid gangrene of the foot, and yet, if the posterior tibial nerve be destroyed, the foot will be so nearly worthless that its preservation will be of doubtful value. For want of innervation, the sole of the foot will be prone to become ulcerated from the pressure of walking, and from the influence of cold in winter, so that the member will be far from being a comfortable appendage. The nature of the injury offers a choice between three methods of treatment:— (1) Conservative management, with thorough drainage, and antiseptic in- jections and dressings. (2) Excision of the joint. (3) Amputation. Conservative Treatment.—Of these three plans the first, or conservative method with antiseptic precautions, is not illustrated by any large number of published cases. I find, however, the following reports of conservatism without antiseptics:— Gunshot Wounds of the Ankle-joint treated without Operation. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Drs. E. Andrews and J. M. Woodworth’s cases from General Sherman’s campaigns 9 1 B. Beck, Franco-German War . 42 8 Report of Surg.-Gen. Chisolm, Confederate Army . 23 6 Mortality, 20 per cent. Total . 74 15 Considering that these were cases largely selected for conservatism on account of their mild character, the mortality is very high, being much greater than that of resection, though less than that of amputation. Even in ordinary compound dislocations in civil practice, we scarcely dare to risk conservative treatment, but where a musket-ball has ploughed through the bones of the joint, simple expectancy is pure folly. Treatment without vol. hi.—47