DELIGATION OP ARTERIES. 299 primitive carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve. Separate with a finger the cellular connection of the common sheath to the sterno-thyroid muscle, and finally to the longus colli. The head is now to he raised, though still turned to the opposite side, and the common sheath, etc., drawn outward, the sterno-thyroid muscle, etc., being drawn inward, by retractors; separate the. connective tissue at the bottom of the wound, and expose the aponeurosis which passes from the scalenus anticus to the longus colli, and the anterior part of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, that is, “ the carotid tubercle of Chassaignac.” Then cau- tiously open the aponeurosis an inch below this point, and the artery is found lying very deep. Pass the needle from without inward. Take especial care to avoid injuring the phrenic and the sympathetic nerves; the “ thyroid ganglion” of the latter, and its communicating branches being considerably exposed. Should difficulty be experienced in finding the artery, a finger must be inserted to the bottom of the wound, and search made with it for the “ carotid tubercle of Chassaignac,” at the extremity of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, below which the pulsations of the artery may be felt. From the' peculiarity of termination of the vertebral artery, above men- tioned, the blood may flow backward, or regurgitate, in it, with almost the same freedom, as it flows forward, or toward the brain ; wherefore, this artery, when wounded before it reaches the carotid tubercle, must always be ligatured at the injured part, and with a distal, as well as a proximal, thread, the ex- posure of the vessel being made by cautiously dilating the original wound. But, in cases of subclavian aneurism, deligation of this artery in its con- tinuity is not unfrequently necessary because of the great freedom, just men- tioned, with which the blood regurgitates in it when the innominate is tied, or the subclavian on the cardiac side of its origin. Thus, Dr. Smyth, in the only successful case of ligation of the innominate, was compelled to tie the vertebral artery as well as the common carotid. Professor Willard Parker, of New York, has tied this artery simultaneously with the common carotid and the subclavian arteries, in a case of subclavian aneurism. Maisonneuve ligatured the vertebral and inferior thyroid arteries for hemorrhage from a shot-wound of the neck, and extracted the missile ; the bleeding ceased, but death ensued from purulent infiltration of the spinal canal. Two additional cases in which this artery was ligated have been reported by an Italian surgeon. Distal ligature of the vertebral artery between the atlas and the axis, as well as between the occipital bone and the atlas, as suggested by Dietrich, would be both difficult in performance and uncertain in result. Ligation of the Inferior Thyroid Artery.—This vessel arises from the thyroid axis, and ascends obliquely, in a tortuous course, behind the common sheath of the primitive carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, to the inferior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It is in relation with the middle cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, the “ thyroid ganglion” of Haller, and the communicating branches thereof; they lie in front of it. Operation.—Proceed as for ligation of the primitive carotid artery between the two heads of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle (Fig. 472), until the com- mon sheath of the carotid, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, are brought into view. Then draw the common sheath of these vessels, etc., outward, that is, away from the thyroid gland, and search, just below that body, with a finger in the deep fissure between the common sheath of the great vessels and the oesophagus, for the artery as it ascends behind the