TETANUS. 607 Increasing; it is then necessary to interfere if they are so severe as to prevent the patient from continuing his occupation, and still more, if their duration and frequency threaten to impede nutrition. Moreover, weakness facilitating the return of the paroxysms, the situation may, indeed, become grave, and may terminate in a true cachexia (irritable weakness). Treatment—The therapeutic indications are, perhaps, the only points well established in the history of painful subcutaneous tubercle. All authors agree in recognizing that narcotics are powerless to cause recovery, and con- stitute only a palliative medication of a duration necessarily limited, on account of the digestive disturbances caused by their prolonged employment. If the pains are not intense, the paroxysms may be rendered less frequent by the patient wearing a 'protective covering, as recommended by the authors of the Compendium de Chirurgie, but the only curative treatment is ablation of the tumor, which is ordinarily followed by complete recovery. In certain cases, however, the pains have persisted after the operation, and have only gradually disappeared. Caustics should not be used in this operation, but the little tumor should be removed with cutting instruments; in no case has the cicatrix become the starting-point of new pains. Tetanus. Definition.—Tetanus is an affection characterized by a permanent and painful contraction of the majority of the voluntary muscles, Avhich habitually begins in the muscles of the jaws and of the neck, gradually extends to the other muscles, and is accompanied by convulsive paroxysms. Tetanus may be traumatic or spontaneous (tetanus a frigore, rheumatic tetanus); - chronic, acute, or subacute; continuous, discontinuous, or interment; finally, it may affect different muscular groups. The name trismus is given to the contraction of the elevators of the lower jaw; opisthotonos to that of the extensors of the neck, trunk, and inferior extremities (this is the most frequent variety); emprosthotonos to that of the flexors; and finally, pleu- rothotonos to that form which is constituted by the contraction of the muscles which draw the vertebral column laterally; this last variety is very rare. Lastly, tetanus is called tonic when the spasm affects all the voluntary muscles (Follin). Etiology of Tetanus.—All traumatisms in all conditions, with or without wound, may be complicated by tetanus. It must, however, be recognized, as it is by all authors, that it seems to supervene most frequently after contused wounds of the extremities, feet or hands, of the scalp, and, generally, of re- gions where the Pacinian corpuscles abound (Gubler). The seat of the wound may then have a certain influence upon the production of tetanus, but the gravity and extent of the wound have none. Tetanus has been seen to occur after subcutaneous injections of sulphate of quinine, or dilatation of the neck of the uterus with a sponge tent, as well as after the most grave traumatisms. In certain cases, however, a sufficient cause is found in the wound itself, to explain the production of the malady; lesions of the nerves, a foreign body inclosed in a nerve, painful granulations, or a cicatrix including a nerve ex- tremity. Most frequently it is not in the wound itself that the principal cause of tetanus is to be sought for, but in the state of the patient and in the conditions by which he is surrounded. Age, sex, alcoholism, and even the puerperal state, which is invoked by some authors, appear to be without in- fluence ; it is not the same as regards malaria, which seems to predispose to