GANGRENE FROM ARTERIAJj AND VENOUS OCCLUSION. 251 compressor may be used as a tourniquet. A smaller instrument can be made for the upper extremity; also a larger one for compressing the abdominal aorta. The hard rubber compressors are attached to the screws by ball and socket-joints, and they are fitted into concavo-convex caps of wood, protected by several layers of buckskin, which are put on just before screwing down, and should be well powdered each time that they are applied. Gangrene from Arterial and Venous Occlusion. "When, from the injuries of bloodvessels, mortification ensues, it is because the supply of normal blood, that is, of blood which is fit to sustain calorifi- cation and the normal processes of cellular and molecular nutrition, is so much impaired by the injuries themselves, that molecular as well as cellular life is extinguished, and putrefaction inaugurated, throughout the affected -area. Gangrene from this cause is frequently met with, and very often proves fatal. Many instances have been mentioned in the foregoing pages, .and in nearly all of them death occurred. The subject is therefore very interesting and important to the surgeon. Symptoms.—Calorification being suspended, the temperature of the affected part sinks to that of the surrounding atmosphere, unless it is kept up by arti- ficial heat. The nervous sensibility, muscular contractility, and muscular elas- ticity are likewise abolished; and a great weight, with, sometimes, great pain also, is felt in the affected limb or area; the beating of the arteries, too, is no longer perceived in the affected region, but still the part is not yet wholly dead. The natural heat, sensibility, motility, and arterial pulsations, have been known to return eight days after these and other signs of gangrene had been observed and accepted. Changes in color also take place. The integu- ments assume a tallowy-white, dirty-yellowish, marbleized, or brownish appearance. Dark-red streaks may form over the course of the superficial bloodvessels. Large vesicles or blebs, filled with a pale or a dark serum, not unfrequently appear. The epidermis becomes detached ; the color blue-black, then greenish; putrefaction ensues; emphysema from decomposition may distend the subcutaneous connective tissue and crackle under the fingers when pressed on; and the peculiarly fetid odors which characterize mortifica- tion are sent forth to taint the air, oftentimes in spite of the liberal use of deodorizers and disinfectants. Occasionally, the sphacelus does not extend above the middle of the limb, as has been observed after the operation for popliteal aneurism; more frequently it extends up to the ligature or the wound which produces the vascular occlusion; but very rarely to a higher point. Causes.—The proximate cause of anaemic gangrene is insufficiency in the supply of nutrient blood. The efficient causes are the vascular lesions which produce this insufficiency. The traumatic lesions of bloodvessels which eventuate in mortification affect, (1) the main arteries ; (2) the main veins; and, (3) the collateral channels. The office of the collateral channels is vicarious as well as supplemental to that of the main channels, and is of such extreme importance in the animal economy that, when their constitution is normal and their operation wholly unembarrassed, it is almost impossible for anaemic gangrene to result from traumatic causes. The injuries • of the arterial and venous trunks which induce mortification are always complicated with traumatic lesions, or im- paired action, or imperfect development of the collateral branches. This