TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. 87 A soldier, aged 27,1 was wounded June 21, 1863, by a carbine-ball, which entered the left forearm two inches above the wrist, passed upward nearly to the elbow, and lodged. He was sent to Washington with the missile unextracted, and his arm much swollen. On the 29th an unsuccessful search was made for the ball. Sinuses extended along the radius, which was extensively denuded of periosteum. The patient was gradually failing. On July 3, the position of the ball having been found, it was cut down upon and removed. But, mean- while, hemorrhage from the orifice of entrance commenced, and a tourniquet was applied to the brachial artery ; it was loosened after the operation, without return of the bleeding. On the 5th, hemor- rhage recurred, and compression of the radial and ulnar arteries by means of bandages was employed. On the 9th, “ secondary hemor- rhages being frequent, there was nothing left but amputation,” which was accordingly performed just above the elbow. The patient’s pulse came up after the operation; but anaemic exhaustion finally pre- vailed, and on the 11th he died. The brachial artery taken from the stump is shown in the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 386). Fig. Fig. 386. Showing a throm- bus in the left bra- chial artery two days after amputation. (Spec. 1386, A. M. M.) 388. Fig. 387. Showing the occluding coagula six days after ligation of the left subclavian artery. (Spec. 40S9, Sect. I. A. M. M.) But, when arteries are ligated in their con- tinuity with silken threads, coagula should form in their tubes on the distal, as well as on the proximal, side of the ligatures. (Fig. 387.) In such cases the proximal is usually much larger than the distal clot. A soldier, aged 35,2 received, May 20, 1864, a gun- shot wound, extending under the spine of the left scapula, forward and inward, toward the cavity of the chest. Gangrene attacked the wound, and extended deeply; secondary hemorrhage from branches of the left axillary artery occurred. On June 18, the left sub- clavian artery was tied in the outer third. On the 20th there were chills, followed by all the symptoms of pyaemia. On the 24th the patient died. Bromine had been applied to the gangrenous parts. The accompa- 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Sec- ond Surg. Vol., p. 472. 2 Ibid., First Surg. Vol., p. 540. Showing the coagulum in the distal part of left carotid six days after liga- tion ; the distal much larger than the proximal coagulum. (Spec. 3179. Sect. I. A. M. M.)