ANEURISM. 524 strong and fibrous, and the ligatures had disappeared. A gratifying and perfect success.” The cases operated on under mistaken diagnoses have also done well in those instances in which the sac arose from the portions of the aorta about to be described, but badly when from elsewhere. Fig. 548. </■ 5 / Aneurism of innominate, involving aorta and left carotid; 1, aorta; 2, wall of sac thrown down; 3, laminated clot lining aneurism ; 4, right carotid ; 5, right subclavian ; 6, left carotid ; 7, left subclavian. We cannot then deny the possibility, and, if we Could he certain of diag- nosis, the high probability, of being able to benefit by operation some aortic aneurisms developed from certain definite regions of the arch. But to make his efforts valuable, the surgeon should be able to effect this, not merely in a few felicitous and fortuitous cases, while the less fortunate patients suffer injury; there should be in no case any haphazard element, but a clearly formulated view of what is to be done and what is to he gained. To attain such prescience, many difficult and minute problems in diagnosis must be solved. The only forms of aortic aneurism with which surgery can cope, are the sacculated, and perhaps a few of such dilatations as occupy but a very limited and defined portion of the trunk. The former is more favorable than the latter form of disease. Fusiform enlargements, occupying a considerable length of the vessel, are not amenable to surgical treatment; nor indeed would I operate upon any case, whose symptoms did not permit of fairly clear and distinct definition of the place whence the aneurism arose. The method of doing this has not as yet been fully developed. Till of late years, when once an aortic aneurism had been detected, enough appeared to have been done; and even now many medical men do not think it needful to dis- criminate between tumors which spring from one, and those which arise from another part of the arch. But the value which modern views on this subject have placed on more accurate diagnosis, will insure greater precision; and therefore symptoms, and