266 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Dr. Robert Battey ligatured the common carotid artery, in a man, for the relief of repeated hemorrhages following a deeply incised wound near the angle of the jaw, in the subparotid space. Tendency to syncope, following the loss of blood and the tying of the artery, was noticed for several days. Facial paralysis also appeared, but after- ward subsided, and the man’s health was subsequently entirely restored.1 The hemorrhage appears to have recurred in this case whenever the reac- tion rose high enough to give the arterial pulsations a force sufficient to drive out the plugs of coagula which temporarily restrained the bleeding. A soldier, aged 25, was wounded at Missionary Ridge November 25, 1863, by a ball which entered anterior to the left angle of the lower jaw, making a ragged opening nearly one inch long, and, fracturing that bone, passed downward and to the right under the tongue, cutting the floor of the mouth, and escaping from the right side of the neck behind and a little below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. On the evening of the 29th, intermediary hemorrhage from the mouth and the orifice of exit suddenly oc- curred, and between three and four pints of blood were lost before the hemorrhage was suppressed by tying the right common carotid artery, just above the omo-hyoid muscle. The hemorrhage was supposed to proceed from some wounded branches of the lingual artery. On December 2, the hemorrhage recurred both morning and evening; about midnight it again recurred with- considerable force, necessitating the ligation of the left external carotid artery. After that the bleeding did not return, and the patient did well.2 In this case, too, the intermediary hemorrhage appears to have been caused by the bursting open of traumatic orifices in arteries which had been imper- fectly plugged up with coagula, the reopening of these orifices being pro- duced directly by an increased force in the arterial current of blood that was due to the reaction. Moreover, the hemorrhage recurred a number of times, and continued to recur until the circulation in both lingual arteries had been controlled by the application of ligatures. Treatment.—I have repeatedly seen an intermediary hemorrhage produced by leaving a coagulum in the wound, which there acts like a warm sponge, and constantly promotes a tendency to hemorrhage during the reactionary period. In such cases, the coagula should always be thoroughly removed by the fingers, or by a suitable sponge: and the contact of fresh air will then often stop the bleeding. At all events, the surgeon can then find out the situation of the bleeding orifice, and can close it by a ligature or by a well- adjusted compress. Such wounds should always be cleansed with carbolized water, and should be dressed antiseptically. Drainage tubes, likewise, may often be advantageously inserted. The occurrence of intermediary hemorrhage in the stump of an amputated limb generally makes it necessary to remove the dressings, to open the flaps, and to wipe off the coagula without delay. If the bleeding result from the careless or imperfect ligation of any artery, it should immediately be tied again, and in a secure manner. Likewise any artery that may have been overlooked should be securely tied. If the hemorrhage proves to be paren- chymatous, and does not subside on wiping off the clots, the whole face of the stump should be washed with alcohol; in case this fails, the solution of the perchloride or persulphate of iron must be applied with a brush, or on lint, to the bleeding surface, a proceeding which was attended with admirable success in one of the cases related above. Intermediary hemorrhages in stumps always necessitate the employment of drainage tubes and antiseptic dressings. 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1881, p. 505. * Ibid., July, 1864, p. 276.