615 TETANUS. and of nervous exhaustion, favored no doubt by the difficulty and sometimes the impossibility of sufficient alimentation; finally, it may also be due to spasm or paralysis of the heart; it seems to occur very seldom without the influence of some complication. When, on the contrary, recovery is going to take place, the beginning of the disease is more insidious and more distant from the date of injury, the trismus continues several days without being complicated with other spasm, and the patient presents neither anxiety nor elevation of temperature; the contraction may, in mild cases, remain limited to a small number of muscles, as we have seen; if generalization does occur, it does not continue a long time ‘ the vio- lence of the contractions diminishes; the muscular groups are gradually re- laxed ; and soon spasm, which still embarrasses large movements, occurs only at the moment of voluntary contraction, to disappear completely after a period which is sometimes of considerable length. The patient now enters upon convalescence, but he is a long time in recovering, and only slowly regains his strength. This long convalescence demands very careful watching, since relapses are much to be feared, and readily supervene under the influence of cold. We have seen that elevation of temperature may also be observed in benign cases; this disappears at the moment of recovery, but the lowering of temperature is not always a favorable sign, since it has been seen to precede death. Diagnosis of Tetanus.—The onset of tetanus may sometimes not be recog- nized, to the great disadvantage of the patient, and the initial trismus may be confounded with a contraction of the elevators of the lower jaw consecutive to an inflammatory affection of the alveoli, teeth, or gums, or of the maxillary bones themselves, and the stiffness of the neck which accompanies and occa- sionally precedes it with a rheumatic torticollis. This error may be avoided by remembering that in these cases the efforts which are made to overcome the resistance of the muscles does not determine, as in tetanus, painful spasms with momentary exaggeration of the contraction. The converse error is yet much more easily avoided, except perhaps in cases of temporo-maxillary arthritis, which, however, a methodical exploration of the region ought to permit to be recognized. Finally, the possible existence, although rare, of partial tetani- form cramp must be borne in mind—a kind of essential, tonic spasm which is especially observed in the territory of the motor branch of the trifacial nerve {masticatory cramp of Romberg), and which is distinguished by the long duration and harmlessness of its symptoms. During its stationary period, the remitting stiffness of the muscles, the pain- ful paroxysmal spasms, and the characteristic aspect of the physiognomy, ordinarily render the diagnosis of tetanus evident. There are, however, cer- tain affections which may, occasionally, lead to confusion. I shall not speak of the secondary traumatic spasms, of Follin, which are only cases of tetanus beginning at the point of injury. In hydrophobia, the complete muscular reso- lution between the paroxysms, the wildness of the eyes, the excitement and terrified expression of the patient, the continual thirst, the aversion for liquids, and the abundant salivation, sufficiently characterize the disease, and if a few of these symptoms may be exceptionally met with in tetanus, and may justify, as we have seen, the name of hydrophobic tetanus, -the confusion is, neverthe- less, only theoretical, and may be readily avoided, clinically, by study of the course of the disease, and by a careful analysis of the symptoms. The mis- take, however, seems to have been made, and, according to Brouardel, we may consider as examples of tetanus the cases of hydrophobia, reported by authors, in which the symptoms have begun within 24 or 48 hours after the bite.. Sabatier cites a case of tetanus consecutive to a fracture of the leg,