INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 244 pit I have already described with minuteness, while describing the lacerated wounds and ruptures of the axillary artery (p. 160). It is unnecessary to repeat it here. On July 16, 1863,1 was brought as consultant to the Post Hospital at Camp Barry, to see an immense pouch-shaped, though circumscribed, traumatic aneurism of the left femoral artery, in a soldier, aged 26, who had been wounded in the left thigh on May 26, by a pistol-ball, which grazed the femoral artery. The aneurism had already been treated by compression without benefit. So illy satisfied was I with the operation of Hunter in the case just related, that I imperatively insisted on the performance of the “ old operation” in this case, and I also aided in its execution. The extent of the aneu- rismal tumor and the method of performing the operation are well shown by the accom- panying diagram (Fig. 442). The aneurism extended from about two inches below Fig. 442. Diagram illustrating the length and course of the incision, the aperture in the artery, and the site of the liga- tures, in a case of immense pouch-shaped circumscribed traumatic aneurism, which was treated successfully by the “ old operation.” A, The aperture in the artery. II, The incision. LL, LL, Ligatures placed above and below the aperture. Poupart’s ligament down to within four inches of the knee-joint. The femoral artery was compressed digitally on the os pubis during the operation. The tumor was opened by an incision about eight inches in length. The sac was. quite smooth internally, and contained but little coagulum. The aperture in the artery was small and oval-shaped. The blood that flowed from the distal part of the artery was venous-hued and without jets. No unpleasant symptoms whatever followed. The patient began light duty seven weeks after the operation, and soon was as well as ever. The scar of the wound of operation measured six and one-half inches in length.1 When secondary hemorrhage occurs after the “ old operation” for aneurism, the blood usually issues from the distal orifice because it has been insecurely tied. In such a case the wound should he reopened, and the ligature should be reapplied without delay. Thus Mr. Joseph Bell, in a case where he had performed the “ old operation” for traumatic axillary aneurism, on the occur- rence of secondary hemorrhage from the distal end of the artery, laid the wound open and tied the end again. The patient recovered.2 Many instances are related in the surgical history of the late civil war, in which the “ old operation” for traumatic aneurism proved successful; and many instances, also, in which there was failure because other plans of opera- ting were employed. Esmarch’s elastic ligature and elastic bandage are capable of affording great assistance in performing the “old operation” for traumatic aneurism in the extremities, both upper and lower. By a judicious application of these devices, this procedure can generally be executed with but little or no loss of blood. 1 The histories of this and of the preceding case are reported at length by the author in the U. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, vol. i. pp. 101-120. New York, 1870. 2 British Medical Journal, Feb. 22, 1879, p. 289.