195 WOUNDS OF VEINS. 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surgical Volume, p. 338. and although those which involve the large venous trunks must be classed among the most fatal of all accidents. Almost every conceivable wound is attended with the lesion of some vein, however small or large it may be; and wounds of the internal jugular, subclavian, and axillary veins, or of the com- mon iliac, external iliac, and internal iliac veins, are quite as fatal as wounds of the carotid, the subclavian, the axillary, or the iliac arteries, and perhaps even more so. In estimating the gravity of such lesions, it should also be considered that the walls of veins are thin, and their contractile power very feeble; that their capacity, always great, increases with age, so that, when they are opened by wounds, the loss of blood will be greater in the old and debilitated than in the young and strong, while the conveying capacity of the arteries is correspondingly diminished. The veins are wounded, not only very often, but in various ways: homici- dally, suicidally, accidentally, in surgical operations, and in war. The principal sources of danger in venous wounds are :— 1. Primary hemorrhage. 2. Secondary hemorrhage. 3. Septicaemia. 4. Traumatic phlebitis. 5. The entrance of air into the circulation. Symptoms of Venous Wounds.—A vein is known to be wounded when dark (or so-called venous) blood flows in a rapid and uniform stream from the seat of injury. Sometimes it will be prudent not to decide hastily, especially in cases where the blood issues from a deep wound. Generally, however, the question may easily be determined; but in cases of doubt we may get valuable aid by compressing the main vascular trunks on the cardiac side of the wound. If the hemorrhage be restrained by so doing, we are assured that it is arterial; but if it be increased, we are almost equally assured that it is venous. Still, it should be remembered that in the extre- mities the blood which flows from the distal aperture of a wounded artery has a dark color, and flows in a steady stream. The wounds of small veins are less serious than similar injuries of small arteries, because the blood-pressure is less strong, the blood-stream is less swift and powerful, the heart’s contractions are less felt, and, consequently, there is less risk from hemorrhage in the former than in the latter. Dr. Otis, the distinguished historiographer of our civil war, observes: “ Hemor- rhage of consequence from the lesser veins must be a rare event. In a single instance in the reports, attention is directed to bleeding from a gluteal vein.”1 The small veins, when divided, close spontaneously in a few seconds, or their closure may be hastened by elevating the wounded part, or by applying cold or other haemostatics. When veins no larger than those of the subcutaneous tissue bleed persistently, it is usually because there is some impediment to the flow of blood toward the heart. In a case of this sort which I saw at the battle of Ball’s Bluff, the impediment was caused by an extemporized tourniquet, which had been placed around the wounded arm of a soldier by a comrade; on removing the constriction and applying a roller to the arm, the bleeding ceased. In prolapsed hemorrhoids, also, the grip of the sphincter ani often causes a large loss of blood in a few minutes, which can be promptly suppressed by dilating the muscle and returning the tumors into the rectum. So, too, free bleeding from branches of the portal vein is sometimes caused by certain morbid conditions of the liver which obstruct the flow of blood from that vein; and here the causal indication for treatment is to remove