DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. 291 (3) Divide the platysma and deep fascia; widen the interspace between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle with the fingers, until the internal jugular vein is visible. (4) By means of retractors, draw the vein with the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid carefully outward, and the sternal portion, together with the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, inward; the pneumogastric nerve appears to the inner side of the vein, and the artery lies somewhat further inward and still deeper; the omo-hyoid muscle is seen crossing the vessels at the upper part of the wound. (5) Open the arterial sheath, and pass the needle from without inward, carefully avoiding the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve by keeping the point of the needle close to the artery; compressing the vein with a finger at the upper part of the wound will cause it to collapse. Just below the omo-hyoid muscle the common carotid is much more acces- sible, and at this point it is not unfrequently ligatured. It is here covered by the skin, the platysma myoides, the superficial and deep fasciae, the sternal part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles; it is obliquely crossed, from within outward, by the sterno-mastoid artery, likewise by the superior and middle thyroid veins, and, lower down, by the anterior jugular; on its external side are the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein; and on the inner side are the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve, which separate it from the trachea and thyroid gland; the descendens noni nerve lies on the sheath of the artery. (Fig. 471.) To tie the common carotid below the omo-hyoid muscle, proceed thus (Fig. 473):—Place the patient on his back, with his head extended; make an Fig. 473. Ligation of the left common carotid artery below the omo-hyoid muscle. (Sfidillot.) incision three inches in length along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, in the line above described, commencing on a level with the cricoid cartilage, and successively dividing the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, and deep fascia, so as to expose the inner border of the sterno- mastoid muscle; carefully avoid the sterno-mastoid artery and the middle thyroid vein; bend the head forward, draw the sterno-mastoid muscle out- ward, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles inward, by retractors;