WOUNDS OF NERVES. 557 The pain does not always occur at the moment of injury, but some seconds or some minutes afterwards; it may be located at some distance from the wounded nerve, and even upon the opposite side of the body (Weir Mitchell). The immediate disturbances of sensibility and motility are generally absent in punctured and incomplete incised wounds of nerves, at least in animals, according to Arloing and Tripier, but, on the contrary, are con- stantly present in cases of complete division ; they will be considered here- after. Other authors have noticed after incomplete section an imperfect disappearance of motion and sensation, notably suppression of the former with preservation of the latter, or the separate loss of the muscular sense or of tactile sensibility. In complete nerve-sections, the rule is, the disappear- ance or diminution of sensibility and motility. Arloing and Tripier have remarked that exploration practised a short time after the injury, generally reveals paralysis and complete anaesthesia in the zone of the injured nerve, and frequently in that of the neighboring nerves; this phenomenon is due to the concussion of the nerve, and may last several days, if the traumatism has been violent. The general condition of the patient must also be con- sidered ; thus intoxication, free bleeding, or the fact of having recently submitted to surgical anaesthesia, explains in many cases the different results which have been obtained by several observers. The exact appreciation, however, of functional disturbances is far from being a simple affair, and it is therefore only when the patient has sufficiently recovered from his emotion and injury, that it is advisable to test his sensibility and power of movement. ' Beside the paralysis and lessening of sensibility, there have been some- times noted jerkings, tremblings, and tonic and clonic spasms. According to Weir Mitchell, there is observed at first an elevation of temperature, due to the paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, and afterwards a fall, caused by a diminution in the calibre of the vessels. I will not stop to describe the symptoms resulting from lesions of the sensory nerves, which are altogether of a special character, and which consist in the exaggeration or abolition of the functions of these nerves. Between the primary and secondary symptoms may be placed the local accidents which may occur as complications of nerve-wounds. The most im- portant of these are phlegmonous inflammation and neuritis, the latter seldom beginning before the second or third week, and often at a much later period. The acute form is extremely rare, the subacute or chronic form being that which is almost always met with. For more minute details as to the phe- nomena consecutive to wounds of nerves, the reader is referred to the section devoted specially to this subject. It will be seen that the functional and trophic disturbances, consecutive to wounds of nerves, are divided into those which are peripheral and those which are due to central irritation. I. The •peripheral disturbances include: (1) Sensory disturbances (pain, causalgia, anaesthesia); (2) Motor disturbances (paralysis, spasms, electro-con- tractility) ; (3) Nutritive disturbances, among which are cutaneous lesions (glossy redness, phlyctense, pemphigoid eruptions, ulceration, herpes zoster, traumatic herpes); lesions of the epidermis, the hair, and the nails (see Plate XVII.); interference with the secretion of sweat and changes of the local temperature; lesions of the cellular tissue (oedema); lesions of the joints, bones, muscles, and tendons ; and (4) Neuro-paralytic inflammation. II. The disturbances from central irritation are divided into two classes, according as there is no apparent lesion of the nerve-centres (traumatic neu- ralgia, neuralgia of stump, convulsive spasms, general epilepsy, tetanus, mental disorders), or as the disturbances may be attributed to a myelitis.