INJUKIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 116 when the edges of the wound are more closely approximated, or placed in contact. It is, then, by the organization of blood-clot and the effusion of coagulable lymph that minute lateral wounds of arteries may become closed without obstructing their canals: and, doubtless, those rare instances on record in which the aorta and other large arteries have been punctured without any permanently had consequences, were of this character, and were healed in this manner. It must he admitted, however, that such instances of perfect cure of punc- tured wounds of arteries are quite exceptional and rarely to be expected. And when we consider that most persons who have had an artery pricked, and who have been treated by compression, have also had a false aneurism, we cannot help thinking that their cure has been only apparent. In this way circumscribed traumatic aneurisms appear after puncturing the brachial artery in venesection, when compression is used ; the patient is thought to be cured, and the surgeon feels safe ; hut in three or four months, sometimes later, the clot by which nature has arrested the hemorrhage, becomes detached, or the newly formed tissue by which the aperture was closed, yields to the pressure of the blood, and an aneurismal swelling forms. Causes.—Punctured wounds of arteries may he inflicted with the sharp points of scissors, as happened in a case reported by Deschamps, where the femoral artery was pierced in this way; with penknife-blades, as in several cases which have been reported; with lancets, in bleeding at the elbow, as has often happened in both ancient and modern times; with pocket- knives, many instances of which accident have been recorded; and, finally, with daggers, swords, bayonets, or any other narrow-bladed weapons. Arte- ries may also be fatally pierced by sharp fragments of hone, and by sewing- needles, when swallowed. Arteries may be punctured by sharp fragments of necrosed bone, as happened some years ago in Hew York, in a case where the popliteal artery was pierced by the point of a femoral sequestrum, and with a fatal result. Again, punctured wounds of arteries may be caused by fragments of bones that have been broken by the impact of gunshot projec- tiles ; they may also occur in comminuted fractures,' simple as well as com- pound, that have been produced by other means. Puncturing of arteries from fragments of broken bone is believed to occur in the leg more fre- quently than in any other region, and this view is supported by Dupuytren’s published cases. Arteries, too, may be punctured by sharpened sticks, or by splinters of wood. Symptoms.—Punctured wounds present nearly the same phenomena as those made by cutting instruments; there is always bleeding, to a greater or less degree; but the pain is frequently much more severe, since the instrument often tears the parts. Hemorrhage takes place when the puncturing instru- ment has met in its course an artery of some size, and pierced or divided it; in either case, blood escapes externally, when the wounded artery is super- ficial, and the wound itself has been made perpendicularly to the skin ; but when the puncturing instrument has passed very obliquely into the part before reaching the artery, the blood infiltrates into the connective tissue and produces a diffuse traumatic aneurism, unless the escape of blood from the artery be quickly stopped, by compressing the artery itself at the wound, or by compressing the main trunk above, that is, on the cardiac side of the wound, through the soft parts by which it is covered. In the latter case, there may quickly be formed at the aperture in the artery a clot of blood, which prevents further hemorrhage; but if the compression be not properly made, or if it be not sufficiently strong, or if it be not continued long enough to