ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS; ANEURISMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURISM. 245' Palmar aneurisms are best treated by applying Esmarch’s apparatus, laying the tumor freely open under ether, turning out the clots, bringing into view the ends of the wounded artery, and tying them with carbolized catgut, with- out any loss of blood. Traumatic aneurisms of the vertebral artery are not very uncommon. Kocher has collected twenty-one cases. No instance of spontaneous aneurism of this artery is on record. For vertebral aneurisms the treatment by compression must be tried. Should the tumor burst, or appear likely to burst, it should be freely opened with suitable precautions, and an effort should be made to tie the artery above and below; or, that failing, the artery must be cautiously plugged above and below with prepared agaric or some similar substance. In examining traumatic aneurisms of the pelvis for therapeutic, as well as for diagnostic purposes, important information may sometimes be obtained by exploring the pelvic cavity with a hand introduced within the rectum, as I have already pointed out in the section on Wounds of the Pelvic Blood- vessels. Arterio-Venous Wounds; Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism. Several examples have already been presented, in which the vulnerating body simultaneously opened a large artery and its accompanying vein, thus producing an arterio-venous wound. The following abstract, with the ac- companying diagram, represents another case, which was reported by Dr. David Prince:— But wounds which simultaneously open the carotid artery and internal jugular vein, as well as wounds which open other large arteries and their at- tendant veins, do not always prove fatal; for, if their extent be small, and the circumstances otherwise favorable, they may result in forming aneurismal A soldier, aged about 20, accidentally shot himself with a small pistol, October 21, 1864. The missile entered the left side of his neck, an inch from the median line, and on a level with the pomum Adami; it passed almost through, and lodged un- Fig. 443. der the integuments just below the left occiput. The bleeding ceased spontane- ously, and a considerable swelling formed. Oct. 28, a very distinct thrill was felt, and a loud whizzing murmur was heard in the tumor. Oct. 29, the wound having bled slightly in the night, the common carotid was ligatured below the omo-hyoid. Nov. 3, at 3 A. M., the patient died of cerebral softening or anaemic gangrene of the brain. Au- topsy—The common carotid artery was found notched, and the internal jugular vein perforated, as shown in the accom- panying wood-cut (Fig. 443). No dis- tinct aneurismal sac had formed, and no embolism of the cerebral arteries had Occurred.1 Diagram to illustrate an arterio-venous wound of the neck. 1 U. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, vol. i. pp. 146-148. New York, 1870.