INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 174 Treatment of Partially-divided Arteries.—Arteries when opened or partly divided by gunshot missiles must always be secured in the wound, if pos- sible, by two ligatures, one being placed above and the other below the aperture in the arterial tunics. The artery should also be completely divided between the two ligatures. In the following case this operation was per- formed on the femoral artery, with a most excellent result:— Corporal H. C., Co. I., 114th Colored Troops, aged 29, was accidentally wounded at Fort McIntosh, Texas, December 18, 1866, by a conoidal pistol-ball, which entered two inches below Poupart’s ligament, and, passing inward, downward, and backward, emerged from the inner part of the thigh three inches below the level of the point where it entered, injuring the superficial femoral artery half an inch below the pro- funda. When brought to the hospital, he was very faint from excessive loss of blood. Four hours after the accident the wound of entrance was enlarged by incision, the patient being under ether; a tourniquet was applied, and the femoral artery ligated above and below the seat of injury. The wound of exit was then enlarged to favor drainage. On Dec. 31 the patient was doing well. On Feb. 28, 1867, he returned to duty, cured.1 Arterial wounds attended with brisk hemorrhage must always have digital ■compression instantaneously applied either in the wound itself, or upon the proximal portion of the wounded artery, or upon the parent trunk, by methods already described, in such a way as to suppress the bleeding until ligatures can be placed around the injured artery, as just directed. In cases where large arteries like the common carotid, the common femoral, the axil- lary, etc., are laid freely open by gunshot missiles, compression of the open mouth of the injured vessel, directly and instantaneously effected, with one or more fingers inserted into the wound and kept there until a surgeon can be brought and ligatures applied, affords the only means of saving the patient. In such cases, a delay of but one or two minutes in applying the pressure may be attended with the loss of so much blood as to prove fatal, either immediately by syncope, or after some days by anaemic exhaustion. When the opera,tion of tying the injured artery in the wound with two threads is not practicable, the injured artery itself, or its parent trunk, must he secured by ligating it with carbolized catgut, on the cardiac side of the wound, but as near to it as possible. Under such circumstances, Anel’s plan •of operating should generally be preferred to that of Hunter; for instance, in a case where the tongue is wounded, the lingual artery should be tied instead of the carotid; or, if the wound involve the external carotid, that artery should be ligated instead of the common carotid, etc. Anaemic ex- haustion resulting from hemorrhage should, in uncomplicated cases, be treated by transfusion. In those cases of gunshot arterial lesion where, after the hemorrhage has ceased externally, it continues internally in the shape of an extravasation into the connective tissue, that is, in those cases where a diffuse traumatic aneurism forms, the surgical treatment should, in general, be pre- cisely the same as if the external bleeding had continued; for, in both in- stances, the lesion to be treated is the same, namely, the arterial wound. When gangrene ensues, our sole expedient is amputation ; and this operation should be performed without delay, that is, before the system at large becomes septicsemic in consequence of the passage into it of putrid blood and serum from the gangrenous part. These three operative procedures, namely, ligation in the wound, ligation on Anel’s and Hunter’s plan, and amputation, should never be held in abey- ance, as expedients of last resort, while other things are being tried ; but, on * Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., Washington, August 17, 1871.