628 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. result, to which ive shall have occasion to revert, and which may furnish us an important guide in the practice of elongation. Sensibility is increased at the beginning of traction, disappearing more or less completely, and more or less permanently, according to the force employed and the duration of the time of traction, at least in healthy subjects; trau- matic palsies have been known to be cured by elongation (Blum, hTussbaum’s first case), and Brown-Sequard has demonstrated the more or less rapid return of sensation, frequently with hyperesthesia, in a limb rendered anes- thetic by semi-section of the spinal cord. Lastly, elongation, practised by Lawrie upon patients attacked with anesthetic leprosy, caused, in a great number of cases, at least a temporary amelioration, even when the traction had accidentally produced rupture of the nerve. Motility is less easily influenced by elongation. According to Blum it may be re-established by a slight elongation in some cases of traumatic paralysis. It disappears more or less completely, but always in a temporary manner, when the elongation is violent. Lastly, when the elongation is moderate, although sufficing to produce anaesthesia, only temporary paresis is usually observed. According to Scheving, the paresis is slight, or altogether absent, if the elongation is applied to the central end, while the traction exei’ted upon the peripheral end determines motor paralysis without anaesthesia. Finally, Valentin has ascertained that the electro-motor quality of the mye- lin is modified by powerful mechanical actions. The effects of elongation are not limited to the territory of the elongated nerve; they are also felt, as several observers have recognized, in the nerve of the opposite side. Brown-Sequard, after having rendered animals hemi- ansesthetic by section of half of the spinal cord, saw sensibility return, after elongation of the sciatic nerve, even in parts not supplied by that nerve. Finally, Marcus and Wiet have produced glycosuria in the rabbit by elon- gating the central end of the pneumogastric, and even of the sciatic nerve. These facts seem to demonstrate, in spite of the contrary opinion of Vogt, that the effects of elongation make themselves felt even upon the spinal cord and nerve-centres. Gillette, moreover, has been able to directly determine upon the cadaver that tractions exerted upon the sciatic nerve communicate a notable shock to the spinal cord. It seems equally probable that centripetal elongation of a nerve is propa- gated to its branches, and may act through them upon the terminal nerve structures. It may be added that, in the majority of experiments, the ap- pearance of quite marked trophic disturbances has been noted as a result of the elongation of mixed nerves, but that these disturbances have not been observed after elongations practised upon man, at least to a degree sufficient to constitute a contraindication. Elongation may, however, be followed im- mediately or quickly by serious accidents, when it is practised upon the cra- nial nerves, and particularly upon the branches of the Gasserian ganglion. Although several surgeons have been able to perform, without any ill result, elongations of the cranial nerves, notably the branches of the trifacial, it may be feared that this will not always be so. At the Surgical Society of Paris, Tillaux and myself have called attention to the loss of the eye which some- times follows resection of the superior maxillary bone, and which results from the avulsion of the incompletely divided infra-orbital nerve. In cases of painless spasm of the muscles of the face, elongation of the facial nerve might be followed, as has actually happened, by more or less lasting, or even permanent paralysis. In these cases I should prefer sub-neurilem- matous neurotomy, or crushing of the nerve. I think then that a distinction should be established between the elongation of spinal nerves and that of cranial nerves, and that the latter should be done only with reserve and pru-