INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 110 took place in both, requiring the application of ligatures.1 Guthrie also thought that longitudinal fissures in the coats of arteries, one or two lines long, were not attended by bad consequences. But Deschamps’s case shows that he was mistaken:— In this case the brachial artery in the upper part of its course was opened by the point of a knife. The wounded man walked a little way ; but, becoming weak from loss of blood, which was great, he fell to the ground insensible from syncope, and for a time the bleeding ceased. On the eighth day copious hemorrhage again occurred. On the ninth and tenth days small bleedings took place. On the morning of the eleventh day hemorrhage recurred to an alarming degree, the bed being soaked through with black and fetid blood. At noon the bleeding again returned with violence. The patient died, and, on opening the body, Deschamps found the brachial artery punctured in a longitudinal direction, at its external and posterior aspect, to the extent of two lines, opposite the inferior border of the tendon of the pectoralis major muscle, and above the origin of the superior profunda artery.2 In this case a traumatic aneurism resulted from the wound, for the relief of which several operative procedures were tried in vain, and the patient lost so much blood that, in the end, he lost his life thereby. Such were the con- sequences of a longitudinal puncture of the brachial artery, only two lines long. When the aperture is of greater size the risk is correspondingly in- creased, unless it is promptly averted by the surgeon’s skill. When the puncture opens an artery obliquely or transversely to its course, it acquires a circular or rather a rounded shape, with consequent increase of size, from the action of muscular and clastic fibres in its walls, which are divided by the puncture. But the relation of a few examples will give more practical knowledge of this subject than many pages of general description:— William Colies relates the following case: A laborer, aged fifty-six, was admitted to Steevens’s Hospital, March 30, 1855. At dinner on the previous day he had swallowed a fish-bone, which, he stated, he felt cutting him very much at the time “ in his chest,” and this cutting pain was increased very much by the act of swallowing. Almost im- mediately he began to spit blood in large quantity, at first dark-colored, but soon bright- red. At twelve o’clock next day, when he entered the hospital, he complained of acute pain in his chest, and of great weakness. He had a blanched look and a hemorrhagic pulse. Immediately after admission he vomited a fish-bone, about one inch long, nar- row and irregular in shape, with sharp points and cutting edges. He continued to vomit blood freely throughout the day, but not so freely as at first; the quantity gradually diminished until nine P. M., when he died. Necroscopy. The posterior mediastinum was filled with coagulated blood. The stomach contained a large clot, and the small intestines were also filled with coagula. There was found in the posterior wall of the oesophagus an oblong irregular opening, about half an inch in length, and extending from above downward ; in the corresponding part of the aorta there was a longitudinal slit exactly opposite to that in the oesophagus, which differed only in being smaller and more irregular.3 In this case the swallowed bone stuck fast in the oesophagus; it cut quickly through the posterior wall of the gullet; and, being strongly impelled by the acts of swallowing, it pierced the front wall of the aorta, and caused traumatic hemorrhage, which speedily proved fatal. In this case, too, the punctured wound of the aorta was longitudinal, and scarcely more than three or four lines in extent ; yet the hemorrhage was very profuse, and did not cease until it extinguished life. 1 Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, p. 212. 2 Observations on Aneurism, Sydenham Society’s edition, pp. 406—409. London, 1844. 3 Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, 1855, vol. xix. pp. 325, 326.