INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. '88 nying woodcut (Fig. 387) represents a wet preparation of a section of the ligated artery. The clots, both cardial and distal, are well shown. The cardial or proximal is much larger than the distal coagulum in this specimen or preparation. Sometimes, however, when arteries are tied in their continuity, a distal coagulum forms which is much larger than the proximal one (Fig. 388), as happened in the following instance A soldier, aged 18,1 received a gunshot fracture of the left zygoma and the left mastoid process, August 21, 1864. He was taken to the First Division Hospital, Fifth Corps, and on the 24th was transferred to the Lincoln Hospital at Washington. The wound extended from a point half an inch behind the outer canthus of the left eye to a point just behind the left mastoid process. Cold-water dressings were applied. On the 26th arterial hemorrhage occurred, which was checked by filling the wound with lint soaked in a solution of the persulphate of iron. It, however, recurred on the next day, and the left common carotid artery was ligated, under ether, above the omo-hyoid, an inch and a half below the bifurcation. Anodynes and stimulants were administered, but the patient sank under the repeated and copious hemorrhages, and died on September 2, six days after the ligation. At the autopsy, the meatus auditorius was found to have been cut across. It was impossible to detect from what vessels the hemorrhage had proceeded. Both lungs were amemic. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum. It is represented in the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 388). The vessels appear of the natural size, shrunken in alcohol. The letter a is placed on a portion of the aortic arch, the letter s on the left subclavian artery, near its origin, and the letter c on the trunk of the left common carotid. The ligature is represented in situ. The distal portion of the artery has been opened so as to show a firm fibrinous coagulum extending from the ligature to the bifurcation. The proximal coagulum is much shorter, occupying less than half an inch, the limit of its cardial end being indicated by a dotted line crossing the artery. The distal coagulum is more than thrice as long as the proximal. The remarkable size which the distal coagulum attained in the case just presented, was, in all probability, due to the great freedom with which the blood flowed back or regurgitated into the internal carotid from its fellow of the opposite side and from the vertebral arteries, through the circle of Willis, when the common trunk was closed by ligation. Indeed, in no other part of the body is the communication between the terminal arteries nearly so free as it is between the internal carotids and the vertebrals at the base of the brain through the operation of this anastomosis. Repair op Arteries after Ligation.—The permanent occlusion of an artery which has been tied in its continuity with a carbolized silk ligature, or with a ligature made of flax, hemp, iron, or silver, is effected in the fol- lowing manner:—1. The coagula, both proximal and distal, shrink, become permeated with leucocytes, decolorized, hardened, and finally organized. 2. The inner and middle coats take on adhesive inflammation at the place where they are cut in two by the pressure of the ligature; that is, plastic lymph exudes from their cut edges, which heals their wound, and eventually unites them and the corresponding coagulum into a homogeneous mass. 3. The external coat also takes on adhesive inflammation, and organizable lymph exudes, whereby this coat is strengthened and consolidated. This inflammation is caused partly by the dissection required to expose the vessel, and partly by the pressure and irritation of the ligature. Plastic lymph is effused between the vessel and its sheath, cementing them together, and often inclosing the noose and knot within an ovoid mass. Progressively with the exudation of lymph and the formation of a fibrinous ring or band around the 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 314.