GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES.- 185 above. The only way to obviate the deadly consequences of such a gangrene, and notably the septicaemia, is to remove the mortifying part by amputating the limb at the summit of the region deprived of nutrient blood by the arte- rial wound; and, the earlier the operation is performed, the less the degree of septicaemia, and the greater the hope of a successful issue. Hence, as soon as the toes become gangrenous in consequence of a severance of the posterior tibial or the popliteal artery, the leg should be amputated at the knee-joint; or, if in consequence of a severance of the femoral artery, the thigh should be amputated above the seat of the arterial lesion. In the upper extremity, as soon as the fingers mortify in consequence of a gunshot severance of the axillary artery, the arm should be amputated at the shoulder-joint or within two or three inches thereof. It is a still better practice, however, to remove by primary amputation the parts in which we know from experience that gan- grene will almost certainly ensue; for instance, in cases of gunshot severance of the popliteal artery, or of the posterior tibial in its upper third, especially if the bone be also implicated, primary amputation ought generally to be per- formed. Under a policy of delay in such cases, gangrene almost always ensues. Primary amputation, by anticipating and averting the occurrence of gangrene and septicaemia, gives the patient the best possible chance to re- cover. When gunshot severance of the femoral artery is complicated with gunshot fracture of the thigh bone, I believe it is always best to amputate without delay, because gangrene is almost certain to ensue if the limb be not cut off, and because amputation in the primary period is much more likely to prove successful in such, cases than amputation performed in the inflammatory period, or after the appearance of gangrene. When gunshot severance of the posterior tibial artery is complicated with gunshot fracture of both bones of the leg, I believe it is generally preferable to employ primary amputation, especially in military practice in the field. In civil life, however, where the circumstances are usually much more favorable for conducting the after- treatment, it may be advisable to attempt to save the leg when the commi- nution is not extensive, and the laceration of the soft parts not great, and especially if only one bone be broken. In such a case, occurring under cir- cumstances favorable for treatment, it may be advisable to tie both ends of the artery in the wound, and then to treat the case as a gunshot fracture, with antiseptic dressings. When gunshot severance of the brachial artery is attended by gunshot fracture of the humerus, the chances of treating the case successfully, with- out amputation, are generally much greater than in corresponding lesions of the lower extremity. When the broken humerus is but little comminuted, the soft parts surrounding it but little torn, and the accompanying nerves uninjured, it is generally advisable to tie both ends of the artery, and at- tempt to save the arm. But when the comminution is extensive, and the laceration of the soft parts great, the brachial artery also being severed, primary amputation should be performed. In gunshot fractures of the fore- arm associated with corresponding wounds of arteries, however, it is but seldom necessary to amputate, unless the elbow-joint be implicated; in such a case it is generally advisable to amputate without delay. Again, when a gunshot wound of the femoral or popliteal artery is attended with a corresponding lesion of the vein and nerve, although the bone be unin- jured, primary amputation should^ always be performed. Antiseptic dressings should always be employed, and thorough drainage of the wound should be secured by using Chassaignac’s drainage-tubes, etc.,:. in all cases where arteries are involved in gunshot lesions.