567 PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. substitution of motility (motilite supplee, of Letievant)? Some cases of this kind have been reported, but they must be received with great hesitation. Those cases only in which examination of the electro-contractility has been carefully practised can be considered as convincing. If, indeed, the observer is contented with making the injured person execute voluntary movements, it is quite possible that these will appear only slightly embarrassed. As Tripier remarks, if a single nerve has been injured, error may readily arise from observing the action of those muscles, the nerves of which have not been cut, and which, in the normal state, take more or less part in the execution of the same movements as do those, the nerve-supply of which has been inter- rupted. Muscular hypercesthesia, transient clonic or tonic spasms, and a kind of fibrillar contraction (Weir Mitchell), have been described in the muscles innervated by the injured nerve. “ In certain cases,” says the American au- thor, “ the nerve wound, in place of causing primary loss of' mobility, occa- sions either sudden muscular contraction, followed by instant loss of power, or, in very rare instances, long-continued spasm. A soldier, wounded in the brachial plexus, at Antietam, was obliged to ask a comrade to unclasp his rigid fingers from their hold upon the musket.” But these phenomena are rare, and it is not necessary to dwell upon them further. The most interesting point is the study of the electro-contractility. Until within the last few years, most physiologists asserted that, after the section of nerves, the electro-contractility persisted almost indefinitely in the mus- cles. The researches of Barwinkel, Erb, and Biernssen, have made known new facts which it is important to notice. These researches have related especially to the influence of galvanic currents, and the conclusions to which they have led are sufficiently exact for physicians to hope to obtain great advantages, both from a diagnostic point of view and from that ot the prog- nosis of nerve lesions. When a nerve has been cut, in an animal, there is produced as in man a motor paralysis, and in time an atrophy of the muscles. In these conditions, the examination should be made with the aid of continued and interrupted currents ; it should be directed to the nerve itself and to the muscles. Let us first see what takes place in the examination of the nerve. In the case of a section, or of a complete crushing of the nerve, it is found that faradization and galvanization give identical results; the electric reaction rapidly diminishes; before the end of the first week it is entirely absent; the excitability of the nerve is abolished for both kinds of currents. If recovery is going to occur, and if regeneration of the nerve is taking place, the excitability gradually disappears; at first feeble, it rapidly increases and returns to the normal condition. When the muscle is examined, the course of affairs is different. During the first fifteen days, the faradization curve becomes gradually depressed. After the third week, the muscle is no longer excitable, at least through the skin. Toward the sixth week, in favorable cases, the excitability reappears, and gradually increases until it reaches the normal reaction. But the gal- vanization curve follows an entirely different course. During the first fifteen days, it follows the faradization curve, but from the third week, when the interrupted currents have no longer any effect, the galvanic reaction is exag- gerated, the curve is raised, soon exceeding the normal, and reaches its maxi- mum when the other is at its minimum. This is what the Germans call the reaction of degeneration. At the moment that repair begins to take place, tbe phenomena follow an inverse order; at the same time that the faradic curve is raised, the galvanic curve is lowered, and both gradually return to the normal level.