INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 732 that sub-periosteal resection cannot be practised; but in some cases a part, at least, of the periosteum can be preserved. In cases where the condyles of the humerus are not destroyed, that bone can be cut across in its broad, thin part, and, by forming a false joint where its edge rests on the cut ends of the radius and ulna, it makes a most excel- lent, hinged articulation, which, as above remarked, is largely under the control of the patient’s voluntary muscles, and which requires no splint to give it firmness. Some of these cases rank among the highest triumphs of surgery. Gunshot Wounds of the Wrist-joint.—These wounds make serious mis- chief, and, notwithstanding the small size of the part involved, are attended by considerable danger. The pus permeates the complicated cavities of the articulation, becomes putrid, and can with great difficulty be washed or driven away. Increasing in quantity and putrescence, it often burrows among the tendinous sheaths and bursse of the palm of the hand, and also works its way among the muscles of the forearm, causing both local destruc- tion and general septicaemia. In slight cases, conservative treatment is justifiable, but, in severer forms, excision of the joint is to be preferred. Amputation is not required unless the hand is actually dead. In cases justifying conservative treatment, the wound must be opened freely and drained with the utmost' thoroughness, and antiseptic injections and dressings should be employed. All burrowing cavities should be opened freely and promptly, and should be kept well drained and disinfected. Surgeons have not yet settled the question as to whether partial are more or less dangerous than complete resections; but the few statistics thus far gathered seem to indicate that partial resection may be safely resorted to whenever the condition of the parts renders it mechanically desirable. The statistics of gunshot wounds of the wrist are very meagre, and the whole literature of the subject is scanty. The following figures, however, give the results of a considerable number of cases:— Treatment of Gunshot Wounds of the Wrist-joint. Authorities. Treatment. Cases. Deaths. Mortality PER CENT. Otis Otis, Culbertson, and S. W. Gross . Otis Otis Expectant 707 54 8 Excision 203 28 14 Amputation at wrist 18 2 11 Amputation at forearm 589 90 15 Conclusions.—The hand, after excision of the wrist, is of considerable value, though very far from equal to a sound member. The surgeon should therefore try his best to avoid an operation. If the injury is slight, conserva- tive treatment is the best. If severe, excision is to be preferred, and ampu- tation is to be reserved for such destructive wounds as leave no rational hope of saving the hand, or any part of it. Gunshot Wounds of the Hip-joint.—These are most desperate injuries. Owing to the fact that they occur almost solely in adults (being rarely met with except in military practice), they are affected by the general law, that after that development of the hips which occurs at puberty, all injuries of the pelvic and adjacent organs involve a great increase of danger. Besides this general law, there are mechanical reasons which add heavily to the peril of cases treated without operation. The bullet in reaching the joint passes through thick masses of fat and muscle, which close up behind