PHLEBITIS. 327 corpuscles in various stages of fatty degeneration, with layers of fibrin intervening. If it were not that, flowing in contact with the surface of a vein under- going an inflammatory process, was the blood, the integrity of which is necessary to tissue-life and welfare, the dangers from this condition would be slight; but experiments have shown that not only does this inflammatory process, by reason of its invasion of the intima, produce changes in the blood which lead to stasis, but that there is a dangerous endosmosis, into the blood- current, of septic matter, which, becoming a part of the current, is swept along and lodged in the various organs toward which it is leading (emboli), producing infarctions, abscesses, and, almost invariably, irreparable damage. The adhesion of the intima, and the formation of a fibrinous clot—which may completely occlude the vessel (occlusion thrombus), or may merely plaster over the endothelial tunic (peripheral thrombus)—are etforts, not always suc- cessful, to prevent endosmosis of septic matter. < The process of repair in tissues capable of successful resistance, in venous inflammation, is one of organization of the embryonic cells, fibrillation, and contraction, resulting in partial or complete occlusion. In tissues of low and impaired vitality, the progress of the inflammation is rapidly toward suppuration, usually terminating in septic fever and death. Microscopical sections from such specimens of phlebitis show that the leucocytes and em- bryonic cells have undergone retrogressive changes, and that the tissues are infiltrated with resulting pus corpuscles. Gangrenous spots are not infre- quent, often opening into the calibre of the vessel, and allowing the influx of septic products, or the efflux of blood. Since phlebitis is a frequent cause of thrombosis, and since venous throm- bosis is the most frequent form of intra-vascular coagulation, a consideration of the pathogeny and pathology of this process must naturally find a place here. Virchow has endeavored to show that primitive phlebitis is extremely rare, and that when a clot is produced in a vein which is inflamed, the coagu- lation has more often preceded than followed the inflammation. Cornil and Ranvier, from whom the above account is taken, do not accept this theory. Fibrin, the immediate factor in coagulation of the blood, does not exist as such in the normal condition of this fluid. Under healthful conditions, the blood would circulate always without any deposit of fibrillated fibrin in the economy. According to Denis, the normal plasma of the blood can be sepa- rated into a semisolicl substance—jasmine, and a liquid—serine. Plasmine is further separable into fibrin and met albumen, and it is held that the coagulation of the blood is due to the conversion of plasmine into fibrin. This is the theory of Denis. Foster holds that coagulation is the result of the inter- action of two bodies, paraglobulin and fibrinogen, brought about by the agency of a third body, fibrin-ferment. A. Schmidt has carried experimentation further, and is led to believe that paraglobulin and fibrin-ferment both ori- ginate in the white blood-corpuscles. This theory is exceedingly seductive, and it cannot be denied that actual pathology proves that around and within inflammatory areas where white blood-corpuscles are most abundant, coagu- lation and fibrillation are more apt to occur, and a study of thrombi which have been gradually formed, reveals alternating layers of white corpuscles and fibrillated fibrine. (Green.) What may be the principle in the blood which is the factor of coagu- lation, or what reaction it is which precipitates the fibrin, we cannot in the present condition of science positively assert. The facts, however, “ point to the conclusion that when blood is contained in healthy, living bloodvessels, a certain relation or equilibrium exists between the blood and the containing vessels, of such a nature, that, as long as this equilibrium is