606 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. may become irritable, but that the fibromata are so disposed more than all others, on account of their hardness, which irritates the small nervous fila- ments in their proximity. It would appear that in the actual state of science it is impossible to be more definite without entering the field of hypothesis. This can only be done after having discovered the anatomical reason why one subcutaneous tumor is painful and another is not. As to the mechanism itself of the production of the painful paroxysm, hypotheses only have been advanced upon the subject. "Without speaking of exceptional cases, in which true neuromata have existed, we have seen that the tumor does not present any trace of nerve-elements; the cause of the pain must then be sought for in a neighboring compression or irritation, of which, unfortunately, there is no anatomical proof; there cannot, obviously, be any invasion of the nerve-filaments by the tumor, since this has been in all cases, except Dupuytren’s, a benign tumor, which is consecutively developed by simply pushing away the neighboring parts. The general condition of the patient must also be carefully considered. The ingenious hypothesis of Bou- chage upon the pathogenesis of the painful paroxysms must also be mentioned. Sustaining himself upon the fact that, in the case which he studied, the adherence of the tumor to the integument was stronger at the moment of the paroxysms, and upon the change in color of the skin, which then became pale in place of remaining violet; and relying also upon the existence of a short period of “ incubation” of the paroxysm, this author attributes it to the contraction of the smooth muscular fibres of the deep surface of the derm— a contraction slow in appearing and slow in disappearing, like the paroxysm itself, and acting by pressing the tumor against the nameless nerve-fila- ments which surround it. Diagnosis.—Careful examination of the painful region will readily enable the small tumor to be discovered, and will prevent this affection from being confounded with neuralgia. Most frequently, however, the patient already knows of the tumor, and points it out himself. This differential diagnosis is evidently impossible in the exceptional cases in which pain precedes the tumor, and can only be made upon the appearance of the latter. At most, the possibility of the existence of this affection might be foreseen from the seat of pain being in one of the regions which we have pointed out, and from the absence of all other causes capable of explaining it. We have seen that the painful subcutaneous tubercle may present the structure of a neuroma, and we cannot therefore follow Follin in discussing the diagnosis of these two affections, which may be blended; it is evident that painful subcutaneous tubercle would not be thought of in cases of neuromata presenting them- selves with their ordinary course in the form of multiple tumors along the known track of a nerve, nearly painless, and with relatively rapid and con- siderable development; let us add that neuromata are very much more fre- quent in men than in women, herein differing from the affection which we are considering. But when a painful subcutaneous tubercle is recognized, it cannot be affirmed that it is not constituted by a small, isolated neuroma; indeed, most frequently the nature of the tumor under observation is only known after removal by operation, unless the case is one of carcinoma of the skin, for example, the ulceration and course of which do not leave any doubt. Diagnosis.—The prognosis is dependent upon the nature of the tumor; that is to say, it is generally favorable, in the sense that there is no fear either of generalization or of direct alteration of the general health. But, on the other hand, it has been seen that a spontaneous disappearance of the pains is not to be counted upon, and that, on the contrary, they generally continue