166 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 2 Holmes’s System of Surgery, second ed.», vol. iii. pp. 519, 520. find the lacerated artery and secure it with ligatures of carbolized catgut applied on each side of the aperture in its walls. The external wound should then be closed and treated antiseptically. (3) Ligation of the superficial femoral artery, at or above the middle of the thigh, as originally recommended and practised by Dupuytren, is the opera- tion which must be performed in cases of diffuse aneurism resulting from fractures of the leg that are simple or unattended with external wounds, whenever compression of the femoral artery is impracticable or proves inef- fectual. (4) Amputation at the knee should be performed, without delay, as soon as- gangrene appears in the toes or foot belonging to a limb where this accident has occurred; and there is but one circumstance besides gangrene which makes this operation admissible for the lesion in question, and that circum- stance is the failure of all other plans of treatment. The surgeon should, generally, when this accident has occurred, be in no great hurry to operate with the knife, unless there is external hemorrhage not amenable to compression, or unless gangrene makes its appearance; and then he cannot perform the opei’ation of ligation on the one hand, or ampu- tation on the other, too speedily. Concerning the application of compression to the femoral artery for this- lesion, the surgeon should never, in an excess of zeal or anxiety, ignore the fact that it need not suspend the circulation entirely, need not even act con- tinuously, in order to effect a cure. In several of the cases presented above,, where the success was most striking, the compression was intermittingly applied, and in two instances it was made by the patients themselves. Thus- the surgeon may, without risk, substitute for the intolerable torture of the old modes of compression, a treatment which, in ordinary cases, is harmless,, and which, in a few, is absolutely painless. But the occurrence of diffuse traumatic aneurism in consequence of fracture is not restricted to the leg, although it is met with in that region much oftener than elsewhere. Fractures of the thigh, likewise, are not unfre- quently complicated by lacerations of large arteries, and by the appearance of sanguineous tumefactions communicating with the canals of the torn vessels, which, in default of a more appropriate name, are called diffuse traumatic aneurisms. Giirlt1 presents a long statistical table, containing twenty-five examples of this accident that occurred in the thigh, leg, and arm; four of them were observed in the thigh, twenty in the leg, and one in the arm. The four thigh cases were reported by Bransby Cooper, by Lyon of Glasgow, by Trugen of Posen, and by Guthrie. Three of these patients died and only one recovered. The excessive mortality sufficiently attests the gravity of the lesion. The following case occurred at the Middlesex Hospital, under the- care of Mr. Moore:— In a man, aged 35, having simple fracture of the femur, there was an extensive swelling of the thigh, together with an arterial bruit in some vessel—not the femoral artery—which could be felt below the seat of injury.2 The symptoms of an arterial wound in this case, viz., the bruit and swelling, disappeared under the influence of the absolute rest of limb and general quietude of body which the fracture necessitated, that is, without any special treatment, and the fracture itself united in three months. It is probable that in the examples of this accident met with in the thigh,, the branches of the femoral artery are the seat of the lesion much oftener than the parent vessel. 1 Handbuch der Lehre von den Knochenbriichen, Bd. i. S. 526-537.