217 WOUNDS OP VEINS. irregularly, his features were distorted, and convulsions of the whole body soon followed to so great an extent as to make it impossible to keep him on the table. He lay on the floor in this condition for nearly half an hour, as all supposed him in articulo mortis. As the convulsions left him, his mouth was permanently distorted, and complete hemi- plegia was found to have ensued ; an hour or more elapsed before he could articulate, and it was nearly a whole day before he recovered the use of his arm and leg.”1 Le Gros Clark mentions a case belonging to the same category, but also remarkable for the slowness with which the air was sucked into the vein, and the tardiness with which the symptoms appeared.2 The incision was above the hyoid bone. Dyspnoea came on gradually, and increased until death ensued, in about twenty-four hours. At the autopsy, the blood in the heart was found churned up and frothy. Examination of the wound showed that a half-divided vein, ligatured only on the distal or bleeding side of the aperture, had slowly drawn into its open mouth the air which, admixed with the blood, had proved fatal. “Dangerous Region.”—That there is a space of considerable size, embracing portions of several regions, in which there is a special danger in performing surgical operations, caused by the liability of air to be drawn into wounded veins by the movements of thoracic inspiration, these thirty examples just presented very clearly prove. They also show that this dangerous space embraces almost all of the cervical region, together with the sub-clavic- ular, the axillary, and the sub-scapular regions, and that the liability to get air in veins increases, on either side, with growing nearness to the brachio- cephalic trunk or the innominate vein. They show, too, that the careless gashing of small veins within these limits is almost as dangerous as that of the large ones; and that the veins to be especially avoided are the external and internal jugulars, the subclavian, the axillary, the thoracics, and the sub- scapular. The operations that need most caution in this regard are amputation at the shoulder-joint, disarticulation of the clavicle and scapula, deligation of the subclavian and other arteries, and the extirpation of tumors, from those consisting of scrofulous glands no larger than a small nut, all the way up to those as large as a child’s head. I must mention some examples of air in veins, which, although not of special interest to operating surgeons, still have enough of importance to demand recognition in this place. For instance, a case is mentioned by Dr. S. W. Gross in which air entered a large vein that was opened by ulceration. One of the jugulars communicated with an open sore through an aperture in its walls made by ulceration. There was a slight bleeding, followed by a gurgling sound, etc., and alarming syncope; from which, how- ever, the woman gradually recovered under the use of stimulants.3 Dr. Cordwent relates a case in which he thinks death was caused by air entering the veins of the uterus after labor.4 Professor John C. Dalton, Jr., mentions a case in which a gutta-percha catheter was used to rupture the membranes and procure abortion. The patient fell back and died. Air was found in the veins and heart; and it was believed by the surgeon that air had been blown in through the catheter, in order to produce the effect desired.6 Depoul related to the Surgical Society of Paris a case in which the douche was used for the purpose of inducing premature labor. A gurgling noise, like that of air, attended the use of the instrument; and suddenly the woman died. On making the Caesarian section for extracting the child post-mortem, air escaped in cutting into the uterus; the uterine tissue was bright red, and the blood was frothy.6 Dr. Parise observed several cases of sudden death in gangrene of the limbs, and in each instance believed that this result was caused by the entrance of putrid gas into the 1 Gazette Medicate, 1831. 8 British Medical Journal. August 21, 1869. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1871, p. 337. 4 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. 6 American Medical Monthly, June, 1860. 6 Lancet, July, 1860.