479 ABDOMINAL ANEURISM. vary these, so as to neither too greatly depress nor excite the heart’s action. It must also be remembered that by forcing the abdominal muscles against the spine, the movements of the diaphragm become immensely impeded. The action of the heart is apt to be embarrassed, not merely from this cause, but also because a great part of the blood which ought to flow through the abdominal aorta to the lower limbs, is now retained in the upper aorta and its branches; there is in the upper part of the body a local plethora, yet the fear entertained some years ago, that the brain might suffer from this mode of treatment, appears to be chimerical. One very imminent danger, which has been illustrated by more than one death, is bruising of the peritoneum, of certain viscera, or of both. The pan- creas and duodenum have both been almost pulpefied by incautious application of the tourniquet at a point too high for safety. Other portions of the intes- tine have also been severely injured. Below the duodenum, no fixed viscus overlies the aorta, and here, partly by kneading the intestines away with the fingers, partly by screwing the pad very slowly down, so as to press those parts away, pressure upon the bowel may sometimes be avoided; that on the peritoneal surfaces is of course unavoidable. The compression must be strong enough to annul, if possible, all pulsation of the aneurism, and that of the femorals at the groin must also be suppressed. The femoral pulse may be taken as a guide to show when the compression is sufficient. In some cases, the aneurismal pulse will not entirely disappear, but when the femorals have ceased to beat, it is not safe to turn the screw much further.1 Pressure made in this way has been kept up with the aid of anaesthesia for five, ten, and ten and a half hours.2 During the whole time of treatment, the greatest watchfulness must be exercised over the condition of the patient, in several directions—as to the effect of the anaesthetic, the state of circulation and respiration, the condition of the lower extremities, and any movements which might cause the instrument to slip. It will be necessary, all this time, to watch for pulsation both in the femorals and in the tumor; if the aneurism, during maintenance of pressure, get harder and smaller, much hope may be entertained that a cure is going on; but the pressure should still be continued for at least four or five hours. When compression is stopped, the tumor may appear unchanged ; and then, if the patient can bear it, a further attempt may be made.3 The aneurism may have but very slight or no pulsation, but this may, in a few hours, to a certain extent, return. Under these circum- stances it is wise to leave the patient at rest: the cure once begun may com- plete itself, and a non-increase of pulsation shows that the case is doing well. This consecutive mode of cure followed in the case of Durham’s and Moxon’s patient.. The recorded cases treated in this way are but few: doubtless more have failed than are made available by publication, but we may conclude with almost complete certainty that all successful instances are known. Ten cases are recorded, of which five were successful; in one of these the aneurism was of the external iliac artery.4 In five cases the treatment failed, death re- sulting in four.5 All the deaths were due to peritonitis and bruising of the 1 Entire suppression of urine during pressure cannot be without danger ; haematuria is less important, unless from injury to the kidney. 2 Murray, Heath (of Sunderland), and Durham. 3 In the famous Sunderland case, pressure, not quite continuous, was employed for ten hours, when the patient fainted, the tumor seeming in no wise improved ; he submitted to a further trial without any anaesthetic, and the aneurism solidified in twenty minutes. (Brit. Med. Journal, Oct. 5, 1867.) 4 Wheelhouse, Clinical Society’s Trans., vol. viii. p. 57. 5 One of these is unpublished; it occurred in the practice of Mr. Hird, at the Charing Cross Hospital.