CONCUSSION, COMPRESSION, CONTUSION AND CRUSHING OF NERVES. 547 inconstancy of the intermediate stage, the diffusion of the muscular paralysis in the zone of neighboring nerves, and, finally, to the fact that if the compression is neither intense nor prolonged, sensation rapidly returns, while in the contrary condition several days may elapse before it is re-established. According to Weir Mitchell, who has endeavored to determine the force necessary to abolish nervous conductibility, compression acts solely in a mechanical manner. He has found, in the animals upon which he has ex- perimented, some traces of congestion, and especially a change in the state of the contents of the nerve-tubes resembling that seen in nerves which have been divided for seven or eight days; and it is to these disturbances that he attributes the loss of sensation. But these lesions still continue to exist when sensation has reappeared, and it becomes necessary, therefore, to look for another cause, which is probably, as maintained by Tripier, a disturbance of the circulation. In conclusion, it is seen that the mechanism of the lesions of compression has not as yet been thoroughly elucidated. Etiology.—Compression of nerves may be due to two sets of causes: trau- matic causes and inflammatory lesions. (1) Traumatic compression may arise from an unnatural position during sleep, as in the radial paralysis termed rheumatismal, which is always, accord- ing to Panas, due to a direct compression of the nerve by the head, or by a resisting body, such as the back of a chair; it may also be due to the pressure of a band, or fetter, or even to the pressure of the bridal-rein against the third finger, in the case of horsemen after prolonged marches; to the pressure from the handle of a basket or bucket (paralysis of the water-carriers of Rennes), or from the head of a crutch pressing upon the brachial plexus, or to the compression produced by the forceps or foetal head upon the nerves of the pelvis. In the foetus, traumatic compression, usually of the facial nerve, has been described by Dubois and Noisier, ordinarily caused by the forceps, but sometimes due to a malformation in the pelvis of the mother, or even to the sacro-vertebral angle. Finally, some authors admit also the accumulation of fecal matter as a cause of compression of the lumbar plexus of nerves, and the compression of nerves by contracted muscles. But the disturbances observed in the latter case seem to be more connected with venous stasis, and the pains which at times occur in the posterior region of the thigh after the evacuation of scybala, appear to be reflex pains, due to the exaggerated dis- tension of the intestinal walls. In these cases, when a lumbar pain is present, it is more likely due to localized peritonitis than to nerve compression. (2) Compression from inflammatory lesions is most frequently due to a neigh- boring inflammation; the compression is here produced by the vascular dilatation and infiltration of plastic products around the nerve, without any change in the interior of the nerve itself, beyond a passive hypersemia.1 The pain is much more acute in affections of the osseous tissues, which are not extensile, than in the soft tissues. But, moreover, according to Tripier, the nerve element is directly influenced by the disturbances of the circulation which occasion the hypersesthesia. This writer believes that the interference with the circulation plays the principal part in the compression of nerve fibres by retractile cicatrices. Then, too, a nerve may be compressed by callus, whether or not it is involved in the mass of the latter. In this case it is still a secondary inflam- mation which causes the pain. A healthy nerve may be inclosed by callus, without being either compressed or painful. Symptoms.—For the symptoms which occur in cases of slight compression, 1 The compression of nerves in inflammation explains the relief which follows when the inflamed, tissues are incised.