INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 36 nausea and vomiting when the cords are implicated; when the great tension and swelling of the cords is apt to dilate the abdominal rings so widely that, when it sub- sides after recovery, the patient is liable to suffer from hernia through the widened in- guinal passages.1 The general appearance of a portion of the body in an elephantoid condition is that of an enormous hypertrophy of the fibrous elements of the skin, with a copious albuminoid deposit in the cells of the areolar tissue, and great increase in size and prominence of the papillae. The whole integument is thrown into warty-looking, rugose folds, overhanging or overlapping, precisely like the elephant’s integument, and in many positions, as in the scrotum or labia, utterly concealing the true nature of the parts. The term elephantiasis should, according to Fayrer, be limited to the “ constitutional form of the disease, that occurs within certain endemic areas, and which is manifested by paroxysmal febrile attacks, accompanied by a disturbed condition of the lym- phatic system, chyluria, hsematozoa, and progressive inflammatory hypertro- phy of some portion of the tegumentary system.” As regards treatment, no constitutional means have had any beneficial result beyond checking the excess or severity of the febrile paroxysms. It seems that change of climate is a potent remedy in early stages of the disease. As we have to deal more particularly with the surgical aspect of elephantiasis, we may here consider what operative treatment can be brought to bear on such cases. Removal of the growth not only relieves the patient of the terribly fetid mass, but also relieves him of the accompanying fever, which ceases after the growth is taken away. The most favorable cases for entire removal, which, under these circumstances, gives excellent results, are those of scrotal and labial tumor. The introduction of Esmarch’s bandage has rendered the operation bloodless and safe. Before undertaking the removal of a scrotal elephantiasis, the patient should be placed on his back, so as to drain the mass from blood for an hour or so before operating. The neck of the tumor should then be compressed by a modified Esmarch’s bandage, and the re- moval proceeded with. Application of pressure on the abdominal aorta is advisable. Incisions should be made along the dorsum penis and course of the sper- matic cords. The cords, testes, and penis are dissected out, reflected, and held up on the abdomen, while the mass is severed from its perineal attachments. The vessels are tied with scrupulous care, and the wound is dressed with car- bolized oil and antiseptic dressing. The wounds heal by cicatrization. Such tumors have been found after removal to weigh as much as 110 pounds. Ligature of the main artery of a limb, in such cases as elephantiasis of the leg or arm, is useless, and if any good be done it is only temporary. We are largely indebted to the experience of Sir J. Fayrer for what is at present known of the pathology and treatment of this disease, which is rarely met with beyond the tropics, although isolated cases have been observed elsewhere; a detailed account of the microscopical appearance of the tissues involved, in two specimens presented by that surgeon and Dr. D’Arcy Power, will be found in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London for 1879, pp. 499-503. Lymphadenosis. This affection of the lymphatic glands has received various names, and indeed even now the nomenclature of the results of the diathesis thus desig- • Fayrer, Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1879, p. 496.