682 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. forms of dislocation, such as flexion, inversion, eversion, adduction, or abduc- tion of the limb. The obturator internus muscle has an important relation to the pathology, and also to the treatment of a certain class of dislocations. This muscle, from its origin in the obturator membrane and bony borders of the foramen, within the pelvis, converges its fibres into a tendon, which passes to the lesser sciatic notch and winds around a trochlear surface, to be inserted into the digital fossa on the great trochanter of the femur. The position of this muscle and ligament is such in relation to the displaced head of the thigh-bone, in certain cases of backward dislocation, that special manoeuvres, which will hereafter be described, must, under these circumstances, be employed before the sur- geon can hope to obtain reduction. The four regular dislocations constitute those which alone are commonly met with, but in a few rare cases the Y ligament is so nearly sundered by the severity of the accident, that the limb ceases to fall into its normal char- acteristic positions, and assumes various accidental and irregular postures, hereafter to be noticed. The tendency of surgical opinion at the present time is to look upon the untorn portions of the capsular ligament as constituting the chief source of resistance to reduction, and to attach far less importance than formerly to the more yielding and elastic resistance made by the muscles. I. Dislocation upon the Dorsum of the Ilium.—This dislocation usually occurs as a consequence of force driving the femur upward and backward at a moment when it is in a flexed and adducted Fig. 567. position. Reported cases show that falls, when the thigh is flexed and the patient strikes upon the knee, and violent compres- sion in the same position, as when heavy bodies strike upon the back or hips of a per- son who is bent forward, are the usual causes of this dislocation. With the thigh in a state of flexion and adduction, any force acting in the direction of the axis of the femur is not received upon the firm support of the acetabulum, as much as upon the thin posterior wall of the joint- tube and ligamentum teres. Both ligaments are ruptured, and the head of the femur slips over the rim of the cotyloid ligament, and glides back and up under the gluteal muscles upon the dorsum of the ilium. While the head of the femur is forced back of its normal plane, it can only reach this position through the rotation of the shaft of the bone upon its axis, as the trochanter is held rigidly forward by the ilio-femoral or Y ligament. The thigh is, therefore, rotated inward and firmly held in this position until the dis- location is reduced. The head of the bone having gone backward, the knee is of neces- sity thrown forward, to some extent, by the bony conformation and by the unyielding Y ligament. This elevation of the knee is slight Dislocation upon the dorsum iiu. —only a few degrees above the normal plane—