INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. 550 more unfavorable if the muscles no longer contract; no case, however, should be considered hopeless. The prognosis of slow compression depends upon its duration, and especially upon its cause, the removal of which affords the only hope of recovery. Treatment of Nerve Compression.—The treatment of this lesion offers no- thing special; it consists in the methodical application of electricity to the muscles, in order to prevent their atrophy. The cause of the nervous com- pression should be immediately removed. Patients who use crutches should have them made with two branches [and a hand-rest, so as to relieve the axillary nerves}, and of suitable length. Contusion and Crushing op Nerves.—Contusion: Pathological Anatomy and Physiology.—The slight habitual gravity of these lesions has rendered their study difficult in man, and accordingly the chief information that we possess upon the subject, especially as regards pathological anatomy, has been obtained from physiological experiments, the most important of which have been those of Tillaux, Weir Mitchell, and Arloing and Tripier. Let me say at once that Tripier blames the first two observers for having departed somewhat from the conditions found in clinical practice, by dealing directly with the denuded nerve trunks. Their results, however, coincide with those of Arloing and Tripier. In cases of slight contusion, the last-mentioned authors have never found any lesions of the nerve fibres; after more severe contusions there have been observed a very slight hemorrhage and a tearing of a few nerve fibres; but generally there are seen only very trivial alterations, irre- gularities of contour, and a moniliform appearance. If the nerves are ex- amined at the end of several days, when the paralysis has almost disappeared, in the anipials experimented upon, there is found scarcely any appreciable trace of these lesions. Finally, after the most violent contusions, there is seen a hemorrhage which separates the nerve from its sheath, traversing the lamellse of the perineurium, and sometimes insinuating itself into the midst of the nerve fibres; secondarily, the nerve trunks thus injured present the same altera- tions as follow incomplete sections, with the exception of the interruption of continuity of the nerve fibres. At a later period, the axis cylinder probably also disappears. It is in these cases of violent contusion that a consecutive tumefaction of the nerve may be observed, sufficiently marked to simulate a neuroma (Tripier). Etiology.—Slight contusion is the most frequent traumatism of nerves. Cases of violent contusion are seldom met with, on account of the deep posi- tion of the nerve trunks and their mobility, which permits them usually to elude the vulnerating agent. Contusions of nerves may be caused by direct force, the nerve being caught between a resisting surface and the body causing the contusion; as in luxa- tions of the shoulder, for instance, which frequently lead to paralysis, of the circumflex nerve by contusion and stretching, or in fraotures, in which the contusion may be due to the vulnerating agent, or to fragments of bone, splinters, etc. Symptoms.—Contusion of a nerve generally occasions a transient pain,. accompanied with formication and numbness; these symptoms are usually of short duration, and probably correspond to. those cases of slight contusion after which, in animals, no lesions have been found. On the other hand, it sometimes happens that with the same functional disturbances at the be- ginning, there supervenes, more or less tardily, muscular atrophy, preceded