CANCER OF THE LYMPHATICS. 41 Although the materies morbi of cancer is well known to traverse the lymphatics, yet primary carcinoma is very rarely, if ever, met with in the lymphatic glands. Billroth is decidedly of opinion that primary carcinoma- tous affections of the lymphatic glands are of very rare occurrence; but as they are the parts which give passage to the fluids of the tissues as they pass on their centripetal course, a strict separation would only be possible where heteroplastic new formations were found in the lymphatic glands;1 and Paget states that, as a primary disease, scirrhous cancer of the lymphatic glands is very rare, the cancer which most frequently appears first in them being the medullary.2 There would appear to be but little doubt that the epitheliomatous form of carcinoma is invariably of epithelial origin, the epithelial cells being most like the parent cells of the cancer cells, and it is readily seen how epithelial elements would select the lymph-channels for their passage, owing to their intimate association with the mucous membranes and skin and cellular tissue. The actual passage of cancer cells along the ducts has not been often observed, but when the glands have become infected, the afferent vessels have always been found loaded with cancer cells; and it is more than probable that the cancer juice, or altered cells, is sufficient to induce infection, since we find that the secondary growths are precisely similar to the primary. A study of carcinomatous tumors of the breast, from their frequency and posi- tion, affords a field of research on the peculiarity of the invasion of this neoplasm. The views of Creighton3 seem to point out that the secondary infection of the glands is caused by pigment cells, which either act upon the lymphoid cells, or undergo rapid self-multiplication. This would seem to be borne out by the experiment of engrafting the cuticle of the negro into a granulating sore on. a white man, when it was found that the pigmented character of the cell was communicated to all the newly-formed cicatricial cells of which the dark cells were the parents.4 Dr. Hoggan’s views5 with regard to the mode of infecting lymph glands with cancer may be briefly stated as follows:— Using the word cancer in the general sense (scirrhus), amongst the most important of these conclusions are the following: — “ As soon as the lymphatic glands become affected, all the lymphatic vessels be- tween them and the morbid part become filled with a plug formed of cancer cells. . . . “ Contrary to expectation, the lymphatic vessels on the distal side of the tumors become also filled up with a plug of cancer cells. This is due, apparently, to the impac- tion and accumulation of lymph or wandering cells coming down with the lymph stream against the distal ends of the cancerous plugs in the already occluded lymph- atics, and there they themselves become cancer cells by contiguous infection. . . . “ By prolonged exposure to the contagion of the plug of cancer cells within the lymphatics, the endothelial cells, which form their sole wall, become cancerous, and their nuclei begin to swell and become more pellucid, while, although the cells retain their shape and position, they seem to change their nature.” . . . “ The one thing needful for the development of secondary cancers from the lymphatics is the presence of groups of wandering cells in close proximity to cancerous lymphatic walls.” . . . “ When a lymphatic or wandering cell becomes infected, it gradually increases in size in all its elements, and if originally irregular in form becomes egg-shaped. The cell substance proper (protoplasm ?) becomes more pellucid and refuses to stain with colors, appearing to become vacuolar, which, however, it does not, but rather reminds one of the external swelling undergone by a pellet of hard gelatine when it is first steeped in water. 1 Billroth, op. cit., p. 162. 2 Paget, Lectures on Surgical Pathology, p. 609. 1863. 3 On the Physiology and Pathology of the Breast. 4 Bryant, Manual of the Practice of Surgery, 2d edition, vol. i. p. 163. 6 Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, 1878.