SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 429 which the tumor is so situated, that either much force is necessary to com- mand the artery or, that the pressure by its mere situation is unbearable. It has also been now and then successfully employed for aneurism about a limb, when the patient, either from constitutional irritability or from recalcitrance, could not, or would not, submit to the pain and restraint necessary for the slower method. In one or two cases a combination of morphia and chloro- form has been used as an anodyne, instead of the latter alone. The Esmarch bandage answers best in cases of recent aneurism; nor do I think the presence of clot so great a desideratum as for the treatment by flexion or indirect pressure, though certainly it is no disadvantage. From my experience, I should say that aneurisms of recent formation, which are steadily, but not rapidly, increasing, and which have forcible pulsation, and walls neither markedly thick nor peculiarly thin, are those most amenable to this form of pressure. It should not be employed for large, thin-walled tumors, nor on persons whose arteries are rough and rigid, nor on those with diseased heart,1 nor on such as have a tendency to either pulmonary or cerebral congestion. For all forms of compression, long fusiform aneurisms are peculiarly ill-adapted. The Defects and Dangers of Compression.—The intention and object of treatment by the various forms of compression are, the avoidance of cutting- operations with their risks and other drawbacks. This method was more especially studied and introduced at a period in surgery when such operations, in the absence of anaesthetic agents, were extremely painful, and when the ‘management of wounds, and the presence in them of hempen or silken cords, rendered the tying of arteries a dangerous procedure. But we are not to suppose that any form of compression for aneurism is free from certain very grave objections, which ought alwa}7s to be present to the mind of him who would thus attempt to cure the disease. Every form of compression (flexion is included) is painful; sometimes, however moderately used, unbearably so—hence the use of narcotics, which some persons, up to a certain point, tolerate well. If the treatment be pro- tracted, it is extremely irksome and wearing, the patient losing both health and strength. The length of time during which such treatment may last is very considerable; and although many aneurisms have been cured in from ten, or even less, hours to four or six days and onward, a large number have been thus continuously treated for several months, and in such cases a goodly proportion of the patients have failed to derive any permanent benefit2—a most disappointing result of painful and persevering efforts. A certain ten- dency to relapse remains after apparent cure by pressure. Sometimes this is rapid—-that is, within twenty-four hours—sometimes slow, or not till after some weeks. Doubtless this is due to consolidation of the aneurism by soft clot, while the artery remains patent, the blood-stream breaking down and carrying away the partially coagulated blood. Nor must we consider that pressure is entirely free from danger, even when carefully and skilfully employed. We have seen (p. 422) that an occasional immediate effect of proximal compression is rapid enlargement of the sac—a phenomenon which points to the possibility of its producing rupture; a possi- bility, too, which has once or twice been exemplified by actual occurrence. This danger, doubtless, is most imminent in the use of flexion and the Esmarch bandage. Gangrene of the limb below, is an event common to all forms of treatment, and, indeed, to all forms of the disease; it may, in some cases, be 1 Aortic incompetence and mitral stenosis are peculiarly unfavorable. 2 Statistics will be given hereafter.