GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 731 1 Schmidt’s Jaln-buclier, 1872. On the other hand, Hugelshofer says that a stiffening of the false joint is generally obtained, sufficient to give a useful limb. Liicke, of Berne, admits that absolutely firm anchylosis is not usually obtained; but affirms that a loose arm is better than none. Neudorfer holds the operation in high esteem. Billroth, of Vienna, says that of six- teen excised elbows in his observation, which remained movable, every one was more or less useful. Bickersteth, of Liverpool, says that of forty cases, thirty-eight sur- vived, and all had useful limbs. Gant recommends the operation. Holmes considers resection probably more dangerous than amputation. Erichsen favors resection in proper cases. Max Schmidt1 says that conservative treatment of gunshot wounds of the elbow is the most dangerous method, amputation the next, and resection the safest of all. The above are samples of the contradictory precepts taught by the masters in surgery. Fortunately, we have a vast accumulation of tabulated expe- rience to illuminate the question, which might otherwise be darkened by a cloud of wild and hasty conjectures. The question of whether the resection should be primary, intermediary, or secondary, may be stated as follows: Like many other operations, this resection is safest when done at a very late period, after all inflammation has passed away, and when continued inaction has atrophied the limb. The next safest time is during the primary period, that is, during the first twenty-four hours. The most dangerous period of all is the intermediary one. The superior safety of the late secondary period does not, however, prove that the surgeon should delay the operation to get the benefit of that time. Dur- ing this time of waiting, the grave dangers of expectancy are incurred, and a large number of lives are lost. The operation should be done, if possible, in the primary period; but if the surgeon see the ease for the first time in the height of the acute, inflammatory stage, it may be proper, in some cases, to strive to abate the first fury of the inflammation, by the use of cold and antiseptics, before proceeding to operative measures. This is only an infer- ence of the judgment, however, as there is no tabulated experience on record to show whether more lives would be saved or lost by temporary delay in such cases. Conclusions.—In spite of the former conflict of opinion, the main princi- ples of treatment in gunshot wounds of the elbow may be considered as now settled. (1) Slight wounds may be treated without operation, by cold, antiseptics, and free drainage. (2) Wounds which destroy the innervation and circulation of the forearm sufficiently to threaten its mortification, indicate primary amputation. (3) Almost all other cases demand primary resection. (4) Complete excisions are better than partial ones. Prothetic Apparatus for Cases of Excision of the Elbow.—Nothing can be more absurd than the opinion of Hannover, that a limb with a resected elbow is worse than useless if it fails of anchylosis. If the false joint be very loose and uqmanageable, nothing is easier than to strap upon it an angular concave splint, which any tinman can make in twenty minutes, and the patient will have instantly all the advantages of anchylosis. A trifling additional labor will give the splint an adjustable joint, capable of being locked in any desired position, thus making the limb far superior to one which is rigid ; besides, the false joint is, in many cases, capable of voluntary flexion and extension, making it far better than any stiff elbow, so that it is doubtful whether bony anchylosis is ever desirable, while it certainly is not so generally. The destruction of the bone and of its covering is usually so complete