INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 320 ment. (2) The border of the sartorius is exposed and drawn outward. (3) The sheath is opened. The femoral vein lies to the inner side and somewhat be- hind the artery; the anterior crural nerve is on the outer side (Esmarch). Pass the needle from within outward, keeping its point close to the artery to avoid the femoral vein. Should the saphenous vein be wounded, it must he liga- tured, since the use of pressure to stop the bleeding might interfere with the collateral circulation. Operation on the Superficial Femoral at its Lower Third.—Here the artery nerve, and behind it the femoral vein (Esmarch). The vessels are united by very dense connective tissue, and much caution must be used in isolating the artery. Ligation of the Popliteal Artery.—The popliteal artery commences at the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and passes obliquely downward and outward, through the middle of the popliteal space, to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries (Fig. 504). Operations.—(1) To ligature the artery in the upper part of its course, Pass the needle from within outward. (2) To ligature the artery in the lower Ligation of the popliteal artery in the lower P^rt of its COUl’Se (Fig. 504), place the tl. 1 1 _ fn / 1-11 , > ^ ^ i iL 1 no f] A/l saphenous nerve which lies under the skin must be avoided. Cautiously divide the fascia, and then the cellulo-adipose tissue between the heads of the gas- trocnemius is to be separated with the finger, so as to expose the popliteal longus, being covered by the sartorius muscle, fasciae, and integuments. Flex the thigh on the pelvis, and the leg on the thigh, and place the limb on its outer side (Fig. 503). (1) The cutane- ous incision, 8-10 centimetres (from 3 to 4 inches) in length, is made over the sartorius, in the middle of a line drawn from the anterior superior spi- nous process of the ilium to the in- ternal condyle of the femur. (2) The sheath of the sartorius is opened, the muscle liberated and drawn outward until the posterior wall of the mus- cular sheath, which covers the canal of Hunter, is exposed. (3) After Ligation of the femoral artery in the tendinous canal of the adductor muscles. (Stsdillot.) opening the canal, the artery is brought into view; upon it runs the saphenous Fig. 504. make an incision three inches in length, beginning at the inferior third of the thigh, and continuing along the external margin of the semi-membranosus muscle. Divide the skin and fasciae. Separate the connec- tive tissue with the finger and director. How flex the leg, and first the popliteal nerve appears; next the popliteal vein, to its inner side, and, lastly, the artery itself. me artery m me lower jy- ~- v— o si I pan of the popliteal space. (Sedniot.) patient on his belly with the leg extended. Make an incision through the skin, three inches long, somewhat to the outer side of the median line. The external