509 TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS AT ROOT OF NECK. outside the episternal notch, there is at first an abnormal voice, tending to break into falsetto, afterwards want of tone, and then aphonia, with a ten- dency to “ swallow the wrong wayand about this time congestion of the left arm and of the left side of the head and neck. There is no dyspnoea until the tumor has become large. The low form of innominate aneurism, as it is usually combined with aortic disease, must be considered with that subject hereafter; but it will be well to point out here some remarkable peculiarities in the pressure symptoms. There are respiratory complications—paroxysmal metallic cough without aphonia, and marked dyspnoea. But the point to be especially remarked is this: the pulsation, dulness, abnormally loud heart-sound, etc., are on and to the right of the middle line; the venous congestions are on the left side of the body, nor does the right participate till late in the disease. The very free communication between the cephalic vessels renders this less evident in the head; but the veins of the forearm and upper arm look in such cases almost varicose, and a meshwork of blue vessels overlying the left pectoral region is especially striking. A peculiar, soft tumor, sometimes described as spongy, but giving a sense of being made of worms, smaller than those felt in varicocele, forms over the left clavicle—a very characteristic symptom. When the right side is also involved, the aneurism will have become large; the amount of dyspnoea and of exclusion of air from the lungs must decide whether this parti- cipation results from pulmonary congestion, or from pressure on the descending cava or right innominate vein. Treatment of Aneurisms at the Root of the Neck.—Before going on to study the surgical treatment of innominate aneurism, which I shall take up with that of the aortic arch, it will be well first to consider the measures available for the other forms just described, assuming that no one would proceed to operative measures until rest, diet, one or other form of pressure, and perhaps some other of the methods already mentioned, had been fairly tried, and had failed to produce any lasting benefit. The word “ lasting” is used here because there are few cases, subject to rigid rest and unirritating diet, which fail to exhibit signs that simulate improvement. The heart and the vessels being in repose, it is only natural that the aneurism should pulsate with less force; and, unless its coats be very thin, that it should, by the mere elastic contrac- tion of its walls on a less potent blood-stream, diminish in size. ISTo doubt, in a certain number of cases, this immediate result is followed by material im- provement, or even by cure. Other patients, having simply reached that point, progress no further. Week by week, or oftener, a full examination shows the disease in the same state; at last the exigencies of life require resumption of occupation -,1 when movement and employment immediately bring back the old rate of growth. Another and the larger series of patients experience some immediate benefit from the rest and restrictions, for the first few days; after which, and even while treatment is going on, the disease resumes its rapid progress. Under"either of the two latter conditions, surgical measures should be resorted to. Rest and Diet.—I find, of aneurisms of the subclavian, 31 treated by rest and regulation of diet, and 13 subjected to the stricter regimen and the vene- sections of Valsalva. Of those in the former category,2 4 were cured, but 2 of them so rapidly, or rather suddenly, that the event was evidently due to some 1 These are the cases which, in Hospital Reports, are noted as “relieved.” 2 Poland gives 22 cases ; the additional 9 are from my own sources, chiefly from Hospital Re- ports. There is no doubt that many more have occurred in different parts of the world ; hut a case of aneurism treated by means so little noticeable, increasing and killing the patient, would hardly find its way into print.