631 ELONGATION OR STRETCHING OF NERVES. temporary amelioration. Finally, this operation may be practised in ataxic patients, especially when the lightning pains are strongly marked. The elongation of spinal nerves does not present any special gravity, and in none of the cases, already numerous, which have been thus far published, has any grave accident supervened in consequence of the tractions exerted upon the nerve-trunks, contrary to what might have been supposed from the cases of sudden death occurring during reduction of shoulder luxations, which are explained by the dragging on the brachial plexus. But it is evi- dent that this operation, like all surgical interferences, exposes the patient to the accidents and the complications of wounds. In regard to the functional activity of the nerve, we have seen that persistent paralysis of motility has never been described as a result of elongation of these nerves. We know that it is not the same with the cranial nerves, and that the harmlessness of their elongation is much disputed. In either case the surgeon should be guarded in the employment of chloroform, since this operation, more than any other, perhaps, exposes to reflex syncope which may readily prove fatal. Operative Manual.—Should general anaesthesia be employed? Debove and Gillette reject the employment of chloroform, fearing a sudden arrest of the heart by reflex excitement. Quinquaud rejects it in order to recognize the existence of anaesthesia, which demonstrates that the elongation has been sufficient. Chiene and Blum administer chloroform, and I have likewise used it. I have also employed local anaesthesia by means of the ether spray. The pain at the moment of elongation is excruciating, but transitory. Most frequently, general anaesthesia ought to be resorted to. The operation of nerve-elongation or nerve-stretching includes four stages: (1) the incision and search for the nerve, (2) its isolation, (3) its elongation, and (4) finally its replacement, and the dressing of the wound. (1) The first stage demands a complementary chapter of operative surgery, which has already been sketched by Vogt. As in the ligation of arteries, the incision should be as much as possible parallel to the course of the nerve, and its length should vary with the depth at which the nerve is situated. Blum advises choosing for the incision, as far as possible, the point nearest to the supposed place of origin of the symptoms, and the employment of Esmarch’s bandage to facilitate the search for the nerve. When the region permits it, Gillette thinks it prudent to keep at a distance from the spinal cord. It is sufficient to say that the incision should be made at the point where the nerve trunk is most accessible ; Esmarch’s bandage is commonly useless, and should be removed at the moment of elongation. The search for the nerve should be made with as little injury as possible to the surrounding tissues. Elongation of the sciatic nerve has often occasioned a suppurating wound, which I attribute to the fact that tractions are exer- cised upon the muscles; sometimes they are separated with the fingers, but it is better to make a clean-cut wound. (2) The second stage of the operation may present some difficulties, if the nerve is inclosed in a tissue of new formation, cicatricial or otherwise. When once the nerve is exposed, it is isolated like the artery in a ligation, with the forceps or grooved director. (3) The most important stage is now reached, the elongation itself, which may be done either with the finger, with the forceps or grooved director, or, finally, with a blunt hook such as I have had constructed, simply provided with a groove, concave in one direction and convex in the other, upon which the nerve lies, or carrying a dynamometer at the middle part of its shank, as in Gillette’s instrument; but when it comes to bo determined what force should be used in drawing upon the nerve, we are obliged to admit, with Trombetta,