206 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. for eighteen days, although no particular effort appears to have been made to suppress the bleeding:— A soldier was wounded October 5, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which entered the left side of the scrotum above the testicle, passed almost transversely to the right, and emerged anterior to the right trochanter major. The discharge from the wound was sanio-puru- lent, and frequently attended with venous hemorrhage, the latter becoming more copious daily. On the 23d the man died. Autopsy—The track of the missile was extensively ulcerated; the femoral vein wTas severed, and contained purulent matter. The spermatic cord was also severed. The shot-lesion of the femoral vein, in this case, was probably a contusion at the outset; the bruised portion of the vein-wall sloughed, and, as the slough separated, the canal of the vein was opened daily more and more. Thus the bleeding increased from day to day, until death ensued from the frequently-repeated hemorrhages. Perhaps, a patient similarly wounded might be saved by the use of anti- septic dressings and drainage-tubes in the track of the missile, together with deligation of the vein above and below the aperture, performed when the first bleeding appeared; and, with a view to deligation, it would be good practice in similar cases to explore the wound, enlarging it if necessary, in order to lay bare the source of the bleeding. Another large vein, which is not unfrequently opened by small-arm mis- siles and portions of shells, is the internal jugular. The Army Medical Museum contains a specimen in point:— “ A wet preparation of a portion of the right jugular vein, wounded by a round bullet from a spherical case (shot). A part of the parietes of the vein has been carried away, and in the posterior portion an orifice is seen, through which the contributor considers the missile passed. Private H. O., ‘ A,’ 5th TJ. S. Artillery, Suffolk, Va., 15th April; died 19th April, 1863.,n In such cases, death ensues from hemorrhage, unless the vein is promptly ligatured above and below the lesion. The next two examples will serve to show how insufficient styptics, and compression, and cold applications, and position are to restrain the hemor- rhage from wounded jugular veins A soldier was struck, July 18, 1863, by a piece of a shell, in the root of his neck, tearing open the branches of the thyroid axis and the internal jugular vein. Styptics and compresses, etc., were applied, because it was decided that to operate for ligation would hasten death on account of hemorrhage. He died on the 27th.1 2 In a case like this the surgeon would be justified in assuming many risks rather than abandon the patient to otherwise almost inevitable death. Again ; Sergeant J. W. J., Jr., Co. D, 28th Mississippi Cavalry (Confederate), was wounded and captured, April 10, 1863. A conoidal ball entered his neck opposite the thyroid cartilage, at the inner border of the left sterno-mastoid muscle, and emerged about an inch and a half to the left of the lower cervical vertebra. He lost, in the course of three hours, perhaps two quarts of blood, when the hemorrhage ceased. On the second day he was taken with severe chills, which recurred at the rate of two or three a day, followed by high febrile reaction. Death resulted on the 16th, that is, six days after the casualty. The autopsy showed the internal jugular vein completely divided ; the surrounding tissues were extensively infiltrated with pus and blood ; and the divided extremities of the vein contained a large amount of pus.* Had both ends of the severed vein been securely tied, without delay, in this case, not only would all bleeding have been suppressed, but also the entrance of purulent matter into the open mouths of the vein would have been prevented; and the patient would have had some chance cf recovery. At least, the risk of death from purulent absorption would have been very much diminished by such a proceeding. 1 Catalogue A. M. M., p. 470. Specimen 1055. 2 Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surg. Vol., p. 411. * Ibid., pp. 411, 412.