501 CAROTID ANEURISM. accepted that a very large majority of the cases in which so-called cerebral symptoms have supervened from the seventh to the tenth day, or later, were cases of pytemia—a malady which twenty-five or thirty years ago was but little understood. Some of the deaths may have been due to detachment of minute portions of clot. Pilz infers from the small number of deaths when both carotids have been tied, that the brain trouble, when one only is ligatured, may be due to a want of balance in the circulation. However this may be, it cannot be denied that deligation of one carotid is sometimes followed by cere- bral disturbance, a fact whereon Le Fort founded his recommendation to tie, whenever possible, the external rather than the common carotid. Ho doubt this advice is in accordance with those sound surgical principles which would forbid a large operation when a smaller one would suffice, and a possible com- plication, however remote, might he avoided. Dr. Wyeth1 has, of late, even more strongly emphasized this view, and has supported it by numbers, finding that the death-rate of tying the external carotid is only four and a half per cent. It must, however, be pointed out that cases of aneurism suitable for this deligation must be very rare: in 91 cases of this procedure, aneurism (described as being in the parotid) is given but once as the dause of operation. The statistics of carotid deligation for aneurism, have been collated by Norris (38 cases), Pilz (86 cases), and Wyeth (106 cases); hut, for the purpose in hand, none of these collections can be accepted without some examination and sifting of the materials, since many of the cases belong to a category already studied as orbital aneurism, or to that of cirsoid aneurism; and since some of them are examples of mistaken diagnosis. We will take carotid aneurism,- properly recognized, excluding all other cases; nor will it be necessary to refer more particularly here2 to the work of older compilers, since their tables are included in the more modern record of Dr. Wyeth.3 I have separated exam- ples of aneurism from the rest, and have added one or two other cases. Thus are collated of deligations of the common carotid artery for aneurism of that vessel, or of a branch (exclusive of orbital or intra-cranial disease), cases, 107; recoveries, 77, or 71.96 per cent.; deaths, 27, or 25.23 per cent.; deaths from independent causes, 3, or 2.8 per cent.4 The causes of death may be stated thus:— ! place not mentioned .6 from sac ........ 2 from site of ligature ...... 1 Inflammation, suppuration, or rupture of sac . . . . .4 Exhaustion ........... 1 Pyaemia 2 Inflammation of lung ......... 1 Cerebral complications ......... 8 Not stated5 ........... 4 1 Op. cit., p. 132. 2 Subtracting 8 of the cases given’by Pilz, we have 78, of which 55 ended in cure and 23 in death ; of these deaths, 2'are unrelated to either the aneurism or the operation (causes, cancer of rectum, and general atheroma). Thus the true life-rate and death-rate in the 78 cases are as follows : Recovered, 55, or 70.5 per cent.; died, 21, or 27 per cent.; died from independent causes, 2, or 2.5 per cent. 3 Dr. Wyeth’s collection of operations amounts to the astonishing number of 789. It is, I think, to be regretted that his table is arranged only according to the alphabetical sequence of the operator’s names. Form of disease or injury, mistaken diagnosis, and chronology, are thus neglected, and the cases, being lumped together, require much sifting and examination previous to being used. Of his 789 cases, 328, or 41 per cent., proved fatal, a ratio much too high for aneurisms, and much too low for gunshot or other severe injuries. 4 These numbers include eight distal deligations for carotid aneurism, but none for innominate or aortic aneurism. 5 The number of deaths appears greater than that given above, because two cases appear under headings of both hemorrhage from sac and rupture of sac. Pilz records 12 deaths from hemorrhage, viz., 9 from the sac, 1 from point of ligature, 2 site not stated.