PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 113 The peritoneum was lifted uninjured by the hand, together with the intestines, and the vessel was exposed to view, not a drop of blood obscuring the parts. The ureter was lifted with the peritoneum. A Mott’s artery needle was passed under the vessel. The tightening of the ligatures not only arrested the circulation in the limb, but diminished the tumor, so that its tense surface became flaccid. The wound was closed ; the limb was enveloped in cotton, and placed in an easy position; warm-water bottles were arranged near it; a half-grain of morphia was given, and oyster-broth. The patient had a good night, and the limb was of natural temperature. Pulse 113 ; a dose of four drops of tincture of veratrum viride was given at seven in the morning; at eight in the evening the pulse was 80. October 9, pulse 90; the discharge from the sac being offensive, the clots were turned out, and the sac was injected with a solution of the permanganate of potassium. October 10; discharge from sac very offensive. October 11; he died at 10 A. M. The autopsy revealed no evidence of peritonitis. A well-organized clot extended from the seat of ligation to the aorta. The artery punctured was the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, within the sacro-ischiatic notch. The walls of the enormous sac were gangrenous. There was no appearance to account for the haematuria. The account of the case and the drawing have been taken from the Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Volume, p. 335. In this soldier’s case, the successive steps in his downward course were as follows: (1) the bayonet-stab of his buttock opened the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery; (2) the formation of a traumatic aneurism ensued ; (3) from continued neglect, this aneurism attained an immense size, the sac suppurated, the blood in it putrefied, the constitutional signs of septi- caemia were rapidly developed, and death speedily resulted. Dr. Isham was satisfied, after the autopsy, that the method he adopted was preferable to the “ old operation,” an opinion to which, however, Dr. Otis, the surgical his- torian of the war, does not subscribe. The fact is, this case, from commence- ment to close, presented some of the most difficult problems of surgery. Theoretically, the wounded artery should have been tied on each side of the aperture in its walls, as soon after the mishap as possible. But this operation could not have been performed through any incision made in the gluteal region. How, then, was the wounded part of the artery to he reached and exposed, and tied ? It might have been done with certainty by opening the abdominal cavity, as in ovariotomy, and approaching the vessel, through the pelvis; but the surgeon would be justified in pausing long and pondering much before undertaking this operative procedure, as he would, also, at an early stage of the case, with regard to ligation of the common iliac artery, inas- much as that operation would offer hut little hope of success in a part where communication by anastomosis among the terminal branches is so free. But the policy of delay which was pursued in this man’s case from March to October wrought no good. Moreover, the history shows very clearly that as time went by the chances of his recovery steadily diminished, and that without radical treatment of some sort his recovery was not at any time possible. These points are eminently practical, and cannot be too strongly impressed upon the attention of surgeons. The plan of treatment which appears to have been adopted at the outset of this case, and followed more than six months, was fatally defective, because it did not recognize the abso- lute necessity of closing the orifice in the wounded artery by the application of ligatures, or, in default thereof, by securing the formation of an organiz- able blood-clot in the canal of the wounded artery. What, then, should the surgeon of to-day do when called on to treat a stab-wound of the buttock penetrating the pelvis, and opening the internal iliac artery, or one of its main branches ? After staying the external bleeding, his thoughts should at once be directed to stopping the internal bleeding also. If necessary to a more exact diagnosis, he should explore the pelvic vol. hi.—8