115 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1867, pp. 41 42. But minute missiles discharged by fire-arms, such as bird or squirrel shot, may themselves inflict on large arteries minute lesions which closely resem- ble, if they ai’e not identical with, punctured wounds. The following example occurred in the practice of Prof. S. D. Gross:— A strumous lad, aged 14, was wounded in the neck by the accidental discharge of a fowling-piece, loaded with large-sized squirrel-shot, which entered the neck at four or five different points. The casualty was attended with but little hemorrhage, and the symptoms of shock soon passed away. The wounds healed without any application, and everything went well until thirteen days after the accident, when the patient was seized, suddenly and without warning, by a protracted epileptic convulsion, affecting chiefly the left side, and died the following day, without return of consciousness. Autopsy. One shot had perforated the subclavian artery, and had lodged in the first rib. The calibre of the vessel was unimpaired, and the apertures were closed by small clots extending around the exterior of the vessel, upon the removal of which the margins of the wounds appeared as if they had just been inflicted. The artery presented no marks of inflammation. Another shot had perforated the anterior wall of the right internal jugular vein, and had lodged on the inner surface of the opposite wall, where it had become completely encysted. • The vein bore no evidence of inflammation. The opening in the anterior wall was perfectly closed, and there was no external nor internal clot. The lumen of the vein, however, was somewhat diminished by the projecting cyst.1 It is of interest to observe that, in this case, the shot-hole in the great ju°-u- lar vein was found, after the lapse of fourteen clays, perfectly closed or healed without the aid of blood-clot, and without inflammatory engorgement. This wound had therefore united by the first intention, as usually happens after venesection. The minute apertures in the subclavian artery were closed by small clots extending around the exterior of the vessel, without invading its canal. J. L. Petit long since pointed out that in such cases clots form which fill the apertures in the wall of the artery, and exactly close them, without encroach- ing upon the canal of the artery. He says these clots are shaped like nails, the points of which equal in length the thickness of the arterial wall, while their extremities, which correspond to the moving column of blood, are worn off by the friction they undergo. Their heads, which correspond to the ex- terior part of the artery, are very broad; they contract adhesions with the external surface of the artery and the adjacent cellular tissue. These adhe- sions become stronger, and when they are well cemented the artery is hea]ed, and the clots cannot be displaced by the impulse of the blood which con- tinues to pass through the artery, as before the injury. Exactly such as Petit describes, were the small clots found in the case just related, closing the minute shot-holes or punctures in the subclavian artery. Had the boy lived, it is highly probable that these clots would soon have become fully oro-anized' and thus have effectually sealed the minute punctures with newly formed tissue. Hodgson, also, remarks that when an artery is punctured the hemor- rhage is sometimes arrested by the formation of a thin layer of coagulum over the orifice in the vessel, and that the edges of the wounded artery are subsequently united by an effusion of lymph, in the same manner as wounds in soft parts in general are healed by adhesive inflammation. This mode of reparation, by which the continuity of the tube is preserved, takes place more readily when an artery is wounded longitudinally, as well as to but small extent, than when the wound is transverse or oblique; for in the latter cases the retraction of the artery causes the orifice in its wall to assume a circular form, in consequence of which the effusion of lymph is greater than