INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 160 Sir James Paget, in a case of rupture of the axillary artery which I have already presented, laid the tumor freely open by a j_-shaped incision, scooped out the clots, found an oval-shaped aperture in the posterior wall of the artery, ligated the artery on each side of the aperture, and divided the vessel itself midway between the two ligatures. The loss of blood attending the operation was less than six ounces. The patient made a good recovery. By the same procedure, which is in substance the “ old operation,” Syme also treated with success two cases belonging to the same category. In such cases this method of operating should generally be preferred, because it is much less liable to be followed by secondary hemorrhage and suppuration of the sac than ligation of the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, or ligation of the axillary artery itself in the first part of its course. In per- forming the “ old operation,” the distal ligature should generally be applied before the proximal, because the flow of blood from the distal portion of the artery is apt to give the surgeon much more trouble than the hemorrhage from the proximal portion. The surgeon may, indeed, be strongly tempted to tie the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, on account of the comparative ease with which this operation can be performed, instead of cutting down upon the seat of the rupture, and tying the artery above and below it; but if he listen to this prompting of indolence, he may live to sorely regret his failure to employ the more difficult procedure. Compression of the main artery on the cardiac side of the lesion has not, I believe, received that degree of attention in cases where the axillary artery is ruptured without external wound, and blood is being poured in great quantity into the loose connective tissue of the armpit, which its importance as a haemostatic measure really demands. In the foregoing pages I have briefly presented thirty-four cases in which there was a rupture of the axil- lary artery. Twenty-six of them ended in death, and only eight in recovery; and in four of these successful cases, no treatment whatever was employed, excepting compression, with fixation of the arm to the side of the trunk by means of a bandage, and quietude; and in one instance the application of ice. When, therefore, the surgeon has the misfortune to witness the occurrence of this accident, he should immediately proceed to compress the subclavian artery against the first rib, for by so doing he will restrict the extravasation to a moderate amount, and may even effect a permanent cure. By this means he can at least prevent the concealed hemorrhage from going so far as to produce a fatal syncope in a short time, or anaemic exhaustion and death therefrom in the course of a few days. In most instances of extravasation from rupture of the axillary artery, as soon as the diagnosis becomes clear, the best course for the surgeon to pursue is, while continuing the pressure on the subclavian artery, to cut down upon and expose the axillary artery where it is lacerated, and to place a carbolized catgut ligature around it on each side of the lacera- tion, finally dividing the vessel itself midway between the two ligatures. But when the surgeon is not called to the case until a great extravasation has already occurred, and the armpit is hugely distended with effused blood, the patient at the same time being cold, pallid, and almost pulseless from shock and hemorrhage, vigorous pressure should instantly be applied to the subcla- vian artery, and continued unceasingly, in order to prevent tire further effu- sion of blood, until such time as the patient may have reacted sufficiently to allow the performance of the operation. Whenever a great extravasation of blood has occurred in consequence of this lesion, no operative procedure ex- cept the old one, or amputation at the shoulder, should be employed; and generally in such cases the cure should be attempted by compression supple- mented by the “ old operation.” And, inasmuch as this operation is not always easy of performance, the surgeon will probably succeed best by thor-