632 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. that the indications given by surgeons upon this subject are vague. Taking the sciatic nerve, for example, of which the conditions of elongation are best determined, it is seen that Billroth advises only to lift it up with the finger; Mac Farlane and Nussbaum, to make progressive traction sufficiently strong to raise up the limb ; Patruban, to stretch it forcibly, so that the roots may participate in the elongation ; Chiene, to draw it from above downwards and from below upwards, forcibly enough to raise the limb from the operating table; Spence, to fix the foot, and draw the nerve until it yields with a sensa- tion of resistance having been overcome; Robertson, to draw strongly until a certain degree of relaxation has been obtained; Langenbeck, to draw with great violence; Blum, finally, to make slight extension if the function of the nerve is diminished or suppressed, and a sudden and violent extension if the excitability of the nerve is increased. As regards other nerves, the confusion is still greater. To permit an appreciation of the tractile force applicable to the elongation of each nerve, Trombetta and Gillette have undertaken experiments, of which I have already spoken. These authors think that one-third of the force necessary to cause a rupture of the nerve is sufficient for its therapeutic stretching, and they recommend the employment of the dynamometer in the elongation of nerves, in order to know exactly what is done, and not to ex- ceed the limit that has been marked out. Scheving advises' to take as a guide in elongation, the production of anaesthesia alone, and to make mild and progressive traction until complete anaesthesia in the territory of the elongated nerve has been obtained, a condition which seems necessary, as we have seen, in order to obtain a permanent recovery. This procedure appears logical, but it ought not to prevent the employ- ment of the dynamometer, which will, no doubt, after a time, permit the tracing of more precise rules for nerve-elongation. Before exercising tractions upon the nerve-trunk, care must be taken to have the limb immovably fixed, in order that flexion of the articulations may not allow the nerve to make too great a loop, since a too wide-spread destruc- tion of the connections of the nerve with its sheath might interfere both with the nutrition of the nerve and with the results of its elongation. In what direction must the tractions on the nerve-trunk be made ? The majority of surgeons draw perpendicularly to the axis of the nerve. Gillette advises to pass the hook of his extensor-dynamometer through an elliptical orifice of 4 centimetres (If inches), with rounded edges, scooped out in a thick piece of board; the nerve, in being elongated, is pressed against the edges of the board, which serve as pulleys for changing the direction of the force, the perpendicular traction being thus accompanied, according to the surgeon of Bicetre, by traction in both the centripetal and the centrifugal direction. Other authors draw in both these directions, holding the nerve between their fingers. But, as was said in the physiological part of this article, tractions on the peripheral end act rather upon the motility, and centripetal tractions upon the sensibility; it is therefore useless, and may be injurious, to make tractions upon the peripheral end Of the nerve. (4) To finish the operation it remains only to replace the nerve in its nor- mal situation and to dress the wound. There is here an urgent indication to seek for union by the first intention, in order to avoid the formation of a cicatricial tissue capable of compressing the nerve. Therefore, I think, Lister’s dressing should be employed, just as all the precautions of the anti- septic method should be observed during the course of the operation. Dur- ing the first days of the after-treatment the limb should be kept immovable. Bramwell has advised making movements when cicatrization begins, so as not to permit the nerve to form adhesions.