SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 451 walls and to be fatty, as also lung congestion from valvular disease, would form strong objections to deligation—the latter condition, more especially, if a large artery about tlie neck were in question. General atheroma, or the same condition if well emphasized, even though confined to the aorta, would furnish a contra-indication, and again more particularly about the neck, or if so large an operation as tying the abdominal aorta or the common iliac were in question. Aortic aneurism should negative deligation for external aneurisms. Local disease of the artery about to be tied, would certainly deter as long as one could hope that life was not immediately threatened by the progress of the disease. At the same time I must state my belief, borne out by expe- rience, that a vessel, even though considerably atheromatous, may be suc- cessfully tied if a ligature that need not cut the arterial tunics be used, and if care be taken not to cut them. Probably, however, extensive calcification would not allow any ligature to be safely used at the degenerated parts. Conditions of the aneurism itself which would negative the Hunterian deli- gation are described by some writers as very many. Rapid growth, thin walls, and forcible pulsation, do not, however, in my opinion, forbid deliga- tion. It is true that suppuration and bursting of the sac may occur, especially if the tumor be surrounded by loose tissues, such as those of the axilla; but if these cases be left to themselves, rapid, if not sudden, death is inevitable, whereas after ligature the sac may not burst, and, if it do, hemorrhage will be less severe and more easily restrained, since the main channel is cut oft'. The patient, or his friends, should know, however, that the chances of failure are in such a case considerable. The artery should not, under these circumstances, be tied at a great distance; sometimes indeed, as in axillary aneurism, it cannot be so ligatured; hence the surgeon, before proposing the operation, should ascertain that the part of the vessel which he wishes to reach is not aneurismal, and that it is not covered by the sac springing from a place further on. When the limb beyond the aneurism is cedematous, application of a liga- ture to the main artery is apt to be followed by gangrene. Whether or no the knowledge of this fact should preclude deligation, depends on many circumstances:— If the aneurism be growing quickly, while its walls are becoming thinner, so that its ultimate rupture is a mere question of days, the ligature may be, and often is, the only chance of saving life; it is true that amputation may afterwards be necessary, and that the patient must then pass through another ordeal, more or less dangerous; but life may be saved.1 If the aneurism, which may have been increasing, have ceased, or nearly ceased, to grow, it will be well to investigate the cause of the oedema; it may arise simply from pressure on the vein, or it may be that form of subcuta- neous and subfascial swelling which is only the first step of a widespread and rapid gangrene. The distinction between the two conditions is to be found in the state of the smaller veins, and in the temperature. A cold in- sensitive limb, white and bloodless, shows that want of passage through the artery is causing, as it were, death by starvation;2 while, on the other hand, a more marked and deeper swelling, with a high red or lurid coloration, 1 I would refer here to a case thus already mentioned, under the care of Mr. Holmes ; the man had ilio-femoral aneurism: after pressure, gangrene of the leg supervened, but, nevertheless, that surgeon and all his colleagues thought it his duty to tie the external iliac ; in this view, I, being present, agreed. After deligation with the ox aorta ligature, the aneurism became solid. I do not think that the gangrene increased much in extent; the limb was amputated a little above the knee ; and the man is now alive and well. 2 Occasionally parts, more rarely wide tracts, of such a limb are hypersesthetic.