16 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAS. tion of this interposed band occurs, and in the course of a few weeks the reparative process is ended. The restoration of the tendon to its original functional integrity is more or less perfect according to the closeness of the primary approximation, the absence or presence of suppuration (which at times occurs), the degree of quietude maintained, and the healthy or un- healthy condition of the system at large. The treatment of these wounds is usually very simple, consisting in the enforcement of rest, with compression and immobilization of the limb. Whether or not the divided ends of the tendon should he brought as nearly as possible together, or should be kept separated, will depend upon whether the wound is one accidentally made; in a healthy tendon, or intentionally in one which is contracted, in order that deformity may be corrected. Open wounds are injuries of much more gravity, severe local and constitu- tional symptoms very often being developed. The retraction is greater and the hemorrhage more profuse. Inflammation is always excited, except in the rare case in which primary union of the divided overlying soft parts quickly converts the open into a subcutaneous wound. When it is a tendon of the hand or foot which has been divided, the inflammation is very likely to spread rapidly along the sheath, and may produce speedy death of the tendon itself. As the result of exposure, necrosis of a tendon at times takes place, attended with considerable suppuration, and not infrequently with grave pysemic or septicsemic conditions. The favorable or unfavorable issue of a case of open tendon-wound largely depends upon the treatment adopted, though affected of course by the exist- ing constitutional state. Other things being equal, the danger is decidedly greater when the injury is of a tendon having a synovial sheath. Even a subcutaneous wound of such a tendon is likely to he followed by destructive inflammation, and hence tenotomy should in such cases be avoided. Apposi- tion of the separated ends, if possible, is to be effected, or at least approxima- tion as close as may be, and the wound of the overlying tissues should be closed if practicable, in order that primary union may perchance occur. Such a position of the parts is to be adopted as will best prevent movement of the damaged muscle, and this should be maintained by the use of fixed dressings, the plaster-of-Paris bandage being preferable to any other. Of the propriety, not to say necessity, in many cases, of uniting the divided ends of a cut tendon by sutures, there cannot at the present day he much question, as far as recent wounds are concerned. Even if a considerable time has elapsed since the injury and cicatrization of the wound has taken place, if the functional impairment is great, the ends of the tendon should be sought for, and, when found and freshened, united by sutures, preferably of wire, since silk sets up too much irritation, and catgut melts down too soon. If the upper end of the tendon cannot be found, the lower end may be attached to a contiguous tendon, as has been several times done successfully, and if the lower end is fixed in the cicatrix, the upper may be also fastened into it, and voluntary movement of the supplied part thus regained, as occurred in Chassaignac’s case more than a quarter of a century ago, and in B. Anger’s much more recently. Tendon stitching has been successfully em- ployed also in operations for the relief of talipes calcaneus, a portion of the elongated tendo Achillis being removed and its ends adjusted with sutures. Displacements of Tendons.—As a result of sudden movements or extreme violence, a tendon may be forced out of its normal position, replacement occurring either spontaneously or by the aid of surgical interference. Thus in a certain proportion of cases of fracture of the lower end of the radius,, the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris is believed by some to be thrown