380 ANEURISM. one side, in the other limb. The number of such cases to he found recorded in medical journals, is too large to quote ; the occurrence has been ascribed to the mode of walking adopted by the patient, which, in order to spare the pre- viously diseased side, throws additional exertion on the hitherto sound one, which therefore soon begins to suffer. The case related by Mr. Humphry, though it does not negative the possibility of such causation, at all events in part, shows very clearly that there is some other agent at work:— Case II.—The patient, a laborer, 37 years old, suffered from right popliteal aneurism. Mr. Humphry tied the superficial femoral artery with catgut; secondary bleeding occurred and recurred more than once, so that the man was very greatly reduced; the action of his heart was of course very weak ; he was at rest in bed, and yet during a state and period which would appear most unfavorable to the production of any aneurism, a fresh one was developed in the popliteal space of the left limb.1 The tendency to form double popliteal aneurisms does not depend upon an “ aneurismal diathesis,” nor on any general vascular degeneration. The per- sons who thus suffer do not, as a rule, engender the same disease on other vessels. There must, then, be some local condition—beyond mere frequency of flexion, muscular exertion, etc.—which renders this the most common form of all aneurisms, and which causes it to be so frequently double. How the brachial artery at the elbow—quite as frequently bent as the popliteal at the knee—lies at some little distance from the bone, and is protected from it by considerable thickness of muscle, etc. Behind the knee, the vessel lies between the femoral condyles and in the popliteal notch of the tibia, close, therefore, to very hard structures, against which every pulse drives its front wall—a condition peculiarly likely to slowly damage its tunics. Mr. Barker showed, at the Pathological Society,2 a remarkable instance of arterial dis- ease, affecting both sides nearly symmetrically, and pointed out that wherever the vessels lay against hard bone, the affection was most marked. His infer- ences will be again referred to. Posture.—Another occasional cause of aneurism is some infelicitous posture obstructing a vessel at the very moment of some strenuous exertion, as may be instanced by tne following case:— Case III Mr. B. was a thoroughly sound and healthy man, save that he had had acute rheumatism 25 years before, which left no trouble save occasional attacks of rheumatic pains. No signs of vascular disease were to be detected. He was 40 years old, was non-syphilitic, unmarried, very temperate, accustomed to a fair amount of exercise, being a good cricketer, skater, and runner. He was giving a rather heavy child a ride on his foot, one knee being crossed over the other. He had no sense of something giving way, but felt suddenly that he must desist, and soon after was aware of weakness and a sense of fulness behind the knee-joint of the limb on which the child had sat. Two days afterwards he found a swelling at that place, of which at first he took no notice; but finding it, during the week, to increase rather rapidly, he consulted an excellent provincial surgeon, who pronounced it to be aneurism. I saw him a few days afterwards, and found the diagnosis to be quite correct, the tumor lying low in the popli- teal space and having but thin walls. In other cases, the position acts not so much by causing an obstruction in the lumen of the vessel, as by binding it down and preventing it from yielding in the direction of limb-movement. For instance, in a bent limb, the vessel is shorter than in a straight one; but if it become somewhat fixed in that shortened posture by an old cicatrix, or by the pressure of clothing, bandage, 1 British Medical Journal, 1876, vol. i. p. 599. « Transactions, vol. xxviii. p. 86.