269 SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 546. The following history and the wood-cut which accompanies it (Fig. 452) furnish good illustrations of the same topic. The operation of ligaturing the subclavian artery in the first part of its course was performed by Assistant- Surgeon S. C. Ayres, U. S. Volunteers:— Fig. 452. Ligature of the right subclavian artery within the scaleni muscles for hemorrhage from the subclavian, occa sioned by a sharp fragment of bone, which had caused ulceration and perforation of the wall of the artery. Spec. 4729, Sect. I., A. M. M. A scout1 was shot on November 15,1864, while on an expedition. The hall struck the external third of the clavicle, fracturing it, passed obliquely inward and backward, and emerged behind, near the spinal column, having opened the right pleural cavity. On December 14 a severe hemorrhage from the subclavian artery occurred, and this vessel was promptly tied, in the first part of its course, in the following manner : “ A triangular flap was made by cutting parallel with the upper border of the clavicle and along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid—the two incisions meeting at the sterno- clavicular articulation. The sternal and part of the clavicular insertion of the sterno- mastoid, as well as the sternal attachments of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, were divided and turned backward with the fingers, and the cellular tissue carefully divided upon a grooved director. The par vagum was recognized and drawn inward, and the internal jugular vein outward. The artery was found lying quite deep below the clavicle ; with some difficulty the aneurism needle was passed around the artery from below upward and the ligature drawn.” The hemorrhage immediately ceased ; but the patient sank rapidly, and died in half an hour. “Autopsy, twelve hours after death— Body much emaciated. The ball had fractured the outer third of the clavicle and the first rib. It had opened the pleural cavity in its course, and had fractured the spinous processes of the seventh and eighth vertebrae and made its exit on the left side of the spinal column. The hemorrhage from the subclavian was occasioned by a sharp spiculum of bone, which had caused ulceration of the coats of the artery. The right pleural cavity contained a large quantity of bloody serum, such as was discharged from the wound previous to death, and the lung was found completely hepatized. It is pro- bable that a vein was ruptured by the ball, .... and that the bloody fluid dis- charged from the pleural cavity before the arterial hemorrhage occurred was a mixture of venous blood and serum ; but’ from the disorganized condition of the tissues it was impossible to tell which branch had been severed.” If the hemorrhage had not occurred, the patient could not, in all probability, have lived many days. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 452) shows the terminal portion of the innominate, the lower part of the right carotid, and the right subclavian arteries, with a ligature, in situ, upon the sub- clavian, three-fourths of an inch from its origin. The following case, likewise, is in point:— Samuel Steinberger was wounded at Williamsburg, May 5, 1862, by a musket-ball, which entered the left side of his chin, fractured the lower jaw, carried away several