190 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. liteal artery. A traumatic aneurism formed. On June 20, it was laid freely open by an incision about six inches in length, all the clots were removed, the cavity was thoroughly cleansed, and a ligature was tied around each end of the severed artery about four lines from its extremity. A deep abscess in the leg ensued, which emptied itself into the wound. The patient died on the thirty-eighth day after the opera- tion, apparently from pyaemia.1 The result could have been no worse if the femoral artery had been tied on the plan of Hunter, or even if amputation had been performed. In the following instance, Hunter’s operation was performed : Private David Jones, Company E, 4th Infantry, was wounded at Fort Sully, on March 7, 1866, by a soldier who made a thrust with a large bread-knife, which entered the thigh trans- versely, about three inches above the inner condyle of the femur, and, passing almost, through, severed the popliteal artery, vein, and nerve. The hemorrhage was con- trolled by compression, and it was then deemed best not to open the wound and attempt to ligate the artery therein. On the fourth day, some arterial hemorrhage occurring,, it was thought unsafe to delay, and the femoral was tied at the middle third. There had been no warmth nor circulation below the wound since the injury, and at the time- of the operation there were strong indications of gangrene. The patient died on the seventh day after the operation, March 16.2 Although the cause of death is not expressly stated in this case, still I think that it may fairly be taken by implication to have been traumatic: gangrene. In many cases belonging to this category, where gangrene is likely to ensue, it will he advisable to amputate at the outset—that is, to perform primary amputation. Kb one plan of treatment can be prescribed which will suit all, or even the majority of cases, when the popliteal artery has been opened by an incised wound. In some cases it will he advisable for the sur- geon to expose the artery, and ligature it above and below the seat of injury; in others, to perform Hunter’s operation; and in still others, to amputate the limb. Each case must be judged by itself, and that procedure selected which appears most likely to save the patient’s life. The occurrence of gangrene,, however, always necessitates immediate amputation in these cases. Incised wounds of the tibial arteries should, generally, he treated on the same plan as incised wounds of the femoral and brachial arteries, just described. The hemorrhage should be restrained by compression until the injured vessel can be laid bare and tied above and below the cut in its walls. Leisrinck has made, in a case of incised wound involving the anterior tibial artery, a fortunate application of the elastic compression of Esmarch. A man having been wounded in the leg with the point of a knife, there rose up in the course of the anterior tibial artery a bluish-colored and pulsating swelling, of the size of a fist. By employing elastic compression (see pp. 74-79), Leisrinck was enabled to readily apply to this traumatic aneurism the ancient method of operating; namely, to freely lay open the sac, completely evacuate its con- tents, and find and tie the artery above and below its open mouth.3 Ho doubt, in many cases where the tibial arteries are wounded, the elastic ligature may, with great advantage, he applied to the leg, both above and below the wound, so as to effectually control the circulation while the injured artery is being ligated on the “ old plan.” Boyer has forcibly illustrated the great superiority of the “ old plan” of treatment in such cases:— A young man received an incised wound involving the posterior tibial artery in the lower part of his leg, near the internal ankle. In some additional cases, the malleolar and tarsal arteries which run over the foot w^ere likewise divided. These patients all died; they might have been saved, if, instead of stuffing the wounds with styptics and lint, the surgeon had cut down upon the arteries and tied them above and below.4 1 Observations on Aneurism, Sydenham Society’s edition, p. 410. 2 Circular No. 3, S. Gr. 0., pp. 241, 242. 3 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, t. xix. Paris, 1874. 4 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 132, Am. ed.