SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF MUSCLES. 11 times chronic in character, and giving rise to organic changes in both the sar- cous elements and their investing connective tissue. In no case has suppura- tion been known to take place. It is most frequently located in the muscles of the neck (;rheumatic torticollis), in those of the chest (pleurodynia), and espe- cially in those of the back {lumbago). Once occurring, it is very liable to recur. Attributed oftentimes to the influence of drafts of air striking upon a surface over-heated or in a state of active perspiration, in many cases, per- haps in the majority, it is really due to twists, strains, or ruptures of the muscular or tendinous fibres or of their sheaths; in other words, is actually traumatic. Diagnosticated by the pain and inability to move, and the mus- cular contraction with sometimes resulting deformity, it is to be treated by rest, heat, stimulating applications, opium by the mouth or, still better, hypo- dermically, and especially by electricity, the effect of the application of which is often very rapidly beneficial. As a complication of gonorrhea, so-called “gonorrheal rhe*umatism” some- times occurs in the male, more rarely in the female. In this affection the muscles have in a few cases been evidently the seat of an inflammation differ- ing from ordinary myositis only in its exciting cause, and in its constant asso- ciation with arthritis, usually mono-articular. Syphilitic Affections of Muscles.—Affections of the muscular system consequent upon syphilitic infection, may manifest themselves at an early or late stage of the disease. In the former they are such as arise from nervous disturbance (pain, weakness, unsteadiness of action); in the latter, from organic changes and deposits. Syphilitic Myalgia.—In the secondary period of syphilis, myalgias are often met with, and, indeed, in mild form, at some time or other, are almost con- stant. They are much more common in women than in men (as are all the specific disturbances of nerve-origin), are worse at night or in the early morn- ing than in the daytime, are aggravated by exercise or pressure, last a variable length of time, and always disappear, sometimes as suddenly as they came on. The pain is located in the belly of the muscle, and ordinarily in only a part of that; it may affect one or more muscles (those of the thighs and legs being the more usual seats), is often indefinite and wandering, and may be associated with, and—unless care be taken in the observance of its phenomena—may be easily mistaken for, pain arising from affections of the neighboring joints, bones, or tendons. The treatment must he both anti-syphilitic and anodyne, and much benefit will often follow local counter-irritation, and still more fre- quently the employment of hot applications, especially of the vapor bath. Muscular weakness is always present to a greater or less extent, and may be so prominent as to prevent the taking of any exercise, or even the getting out of bed. As the result of inaction, or as a reflex phenomenon, atrophy occurs, sometimes in high degree. Syphilitic Tremor, etc.—As was originally pointed out by Fournier, there may occasionally at this period of syphilis be detected in certain of the muscles tremblings, fibrillary contractions, not due to any central nerve-lesion, but “simply a functional disturbance, essentially temporary, and necessarily benign.” Arising suddenly, affecting primarily and chiefly the muscles, of the upper extremity, and ordinarily only a part of these, this trembling may be both seen and felt, and can without difficulty be graphically traced. The duration of the affection varies from a few days to five or six months, and in the more protracted cases (lasting from “four to eight or ten weeks”), which are those usually met with, the tremblings are frequently intermittent.