PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 123 has ensued, and the tissues in the wounded palm are infiltrated and boggy, swollen, and discolored—how should such cases be treated ? For them also the plan of treatment should be the same. The wound must be explored; the injured artery must be bi’ought into view, and secured with ligatures in the wound. My own views coincide with those of Mr. C. D. Arnott, when he says: “ The principle I wish to inculcate is that, under no circumstances, in hemorrhage from the palm, is deligation of the arterial trunks on the cardiac aspect to be deemed necessary or attempted. I am aware that this will at present hardly find general favor. I am, however, certain of my fact, and therefore state it boldly.”1 Femoral Artery and Branches.—Punctured wounds of the thigh which open the common trunk of the femoral artery, or the superficial femoral, or the profunda femoris, however slight the puncturing of the artery may be, are very dangerous, and sometimes they are also very difficult to treat. A great many patients have been destroyed by these wounds. The main point in the treatment, however, is to restrain the primary hemorrhage, internally or at the orifice of the wound in the artery, as well as externally or at the orifice of the wound in the skin, without any delay, and without any tem- porizing with useless expedients. The formation of a diffuse aneurism in the femoral region is to be deprecated about as much as in the axillary re- gion. In treating punctured wounds of the femoral artery, the bleeding should be restrained, both internally and externally, by exploring the wound with a finger, and placing the end of it upon the aperture in the artery ; or by applying the elastic compression of Esmarch to the limb both above and below the wound ; or by applying tourniquets or handkerchiefs tightly round the thigh above and below the wound, and thus controlling the circulation until the bleeding aperture in the artery can be laid bare by enlarging the wound, and until a ligature of carbolized catgut can be placed on each side of the aperture, and the artery itself be completely divided midway between the two ligatures to allow the ends to retract. Compression, although it is indispensable in such cases, must be looked on as a temporary expedient; as merely a very efficient means of preventing such a loss of blood as would prove fatal, or of keeping the patient in a salvable condition until the wounded artery can be properly secured by ligatures. The following case shows in a most excellent manner how punctured wounds of the femoral artery can be successfully managed:— The subject was a young man, who, while mending a pen, accidentally let the knife penetrate his thigh at the middle. Free hemorrhage followed, which, however, was temporarily controlled by a handkerchief tied tightly round the limb. Mr. Maunder, on arriving, proceeded to search for the wounded vessel. He passed a finger readily into the wound to the depth of two inches, and felt the hole in a vessel which proved to be the superficial femoral artery. The finger being retained on this hole, the wound was enlarged upward and downward until the aperture in the artery was distinctly seen, and then a ligature was applied both above and below it. Venous-looking blood was observed to flow from the distal part of the artery. No discomfort attended the ligatures, which came away on the twelfth and thirteenth days respectively. The man made an excellent recovery.2 Here is another case in point: Mr. Messiter showed a patient who, in consequence of a punctured wound of the femoral artery, had acquired a diffuse traumatic aneurism. Mr. Houghton, three weeks after the accident, cut down upon the artery, and tied it above and below the wound. The patient made a good recovery.3 1 Lancet, vol. ii., 1855, p. 141. See also observations on Incised Wounds of the Palmar Arches. 2 British Medical Journal, November 23, 1867, p. 474. 3 Ibid., March 2, 1878, p. 302. See also section on Incised Wounds of the Femoral Artery.