405 SPONTANEOUS CURE OF ANEURISM. given artery has occasionally, by slackening the blood stream in the vessel beyond, cured an older aneurism lower down. That an aneurism may cure itself by compressing its own artery, either above or below the mouth, is a speculation first advanced by Everard Home,1 in 1793; he was followed by Hodgson and Crisp.2 Broca and Holmes throw some doubt on the possibility, or, at least, the probability, of such an occur- rence. It is quite true, as Broca points out, that the cases cited by Hodgson are by no means conclusive; but it is impossible to deny that aneurismal pres- sure may obliterate an artery, while we have before us such a case as is detailed by Sir Astley Cooper.3 The aneurism, which in this case was aortic, curled backward, and compressed the left carotid with such power as to cause its ob- literation. If an aneurism, though it spring from a larger vessel, have power by its pressure to obstruct a healthy artery, there seems no reason to suppose that it would not also cause consolidation in an aneurismal sac; for in the first instance, total, or very nearly total, occlusion would be required; in the second, a mere mitigation of the blood-stream will often, as frequent expe- rience has shown, procure solidification of the blood. I watched for several weeks, with great care, an aorto-innominate aneurism, which, advancing outward, bent down behind the clavicle and compressed the subclavian about its third part. Under this pressure, the outer part of the large tumor was gradually becoming solidified in the most interesting manner. But the man insisted on taking a long journey and going from care before the completion of the process, which, under fostering and favoring circumstances, might have led to entire cure. If a cure have been effected by any of these means, obliteration of the artery up and down to the next large branch will generally occur in such vessels as the popliteal or femoral, but it is always secondary to the consolidation in the sac. In certain other vessels, as in the thoracic or abdominal aorta, the innominate, and usually the subclavian, unless the aneurism have been very large, the vessel preserves its permeability; the consolidated aneurism simply rests upon it, and the surface of the active clot, which is 'washed by the circulating stream, becomes coated with a smooth, shining tunic, indis- tinguishable from the normal inner coat of a healthy vessel. A third local condition which occasionally leads to the cure of aneurism, is by detachment of a flake or shred from the usual incrusting clot. Such a shred may be only partially loosened from a spot near the mouth of the tmour, so that it flaps over the orifice, and, swaying in the current, acts as a valve, only mitigating, not entirely obstructing, the stream; or it may, whether quite detached or no, be washed into the vessel beyond, block it up entirely, and act as a total check to the circulation. The former method may, if the pas- sage of blood be very much obstructed, give rise to the same symptoms as the latter, but if the circulation be merely retarded, no disturbance further than some coldness and numbness of the parts beyond, together with harden- ing and diminished pulse of the aneurism, is perceptible.4 The sudden occlusion of an aneurismal vessel by a detached piece of clot, is followed, unless the vessel be of unimportant dimensions, by a sudden, (Lancet, vol. i. 1869, pp. 422-489) has described several such. Broca and Hodgson have each depicted one such cure. The mistake is a very important one, as likely to influence errone- ously the practice of those who confide in Mr. Ericlisen’s generally excellent work. 1 Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, vol. i. p. 140. 1 On the Structure, Diseases, and Injuries of the Bloodvessels, p. 178. 3 Med-Cliir. Trans., vol. i. p. 12. 4 Some of these symptoms depend upon the size and situation of the vessel. Thus, a blood- clot impacted in the aorta would cause much disturbance in certain vessels of the brain, with paralysis, or even death.