DELIGATION OP ARTERIES. 319 rotic canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fibres, thrown from the border of the adductor longus and the border of the opening in the adductor magnus, across to the side of the vastus internus. To its inner side, it is in relation at its upper part with the femoral vein, and, lower down, with the pectineus, adductor longus, and sartorius. The immediate relations of the artery are the femoral vein and two saphenous nerves. The vein at Poupart’s ligament lies to the inner side of the artery; hut, lower 'down, it gets altogether behind, and inclines to its outer side. The short saphenous nerve lies at the outer side, and somewhat upon the sheath for the lower two-thirds of its extent. The long saphenous nerve is situated within the sheath, and in front of the artery to the same extent. The course of the femoral artery is indicated by a line., drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, downward and inward to the inner side of the internal condyle of the femur. Operation on the Common Femoral Artery.—(1) The cutaneous incision com- mences at a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis, two millimetres (one line) above Poupart’s ligament, and is carried downward for five centimetres (about two inches). (2) The super- ficial fascia is divided. (3) The subcutaneous tissue is divided; the lymphatic ganglia are avoided by drawing them aside or by removing them. (4) Divi- sion of the fascia lata. (5) The sheath of the vessels is opened one centimetre (about three-eighths of an inch) below Poupart’s ligament, because immedi- ately below this point the superficial epigastric and superficial circumflex iliac arteries are given off (Pig. 501). (6) The femoral vein lies on the inner side of the artery, and the anterior crural nerve on the outer side (Esmarch). Pass the needle from within outward. Fig. 501. Ligation of the common femoral artery. (Sfidillot.) Fig. 502. Ligation of the superficial femoral artery at the apex of Scarpa’s triangle. (Sedillot.) Operation on the Superficial Femoral Artery at the Apex of Scarpa’s Triangle (Fig. 502).—(1) The cutaneous incision, five centimetres (about two inches) in length, at the inner border of the sartorius, commences six finger-breadths (eight to ten centimetres, or from three to four inches) below Poupart’s liga-