SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 271 (3) Secondary hemorrhages are often developed in consequence of the extension of a sloughing process, especially in unhealthy constitutions, from the adjacent tissues to the coats of the arteries themselves, when they are not primarily injured. The bleeding in such instances occurs on the separation or breaking down of the slough. The next two abstracts, together with the wood-cuts accompanying them (Figs. 453 and 454), most excellently illus- trate this topic:— A Confederate soldier, aged 27,1 was struck by a musket-ball and captured, June 16, 1864. The missile entered three inches below the left clavicle and emerged at the pos- terior border of the left axilla. Nothing of importance occurred until July 10, when profuse arterial bleeding from the exit orifice supervened; it was stanched by plugging the tract of the ball with pledgets of charpie dipped in a solution of persulphate of iron, and applying com- presses tightly bandaged in the armpit. Bleeding recurred, and the patient died on the 12th. Necroscopy revealed a phage- daenic condition of the posterior part of the wound, and the subscapular artery had sloughed completely through, or off, at its origin. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 453) represents the specimen. In the next case, also, the subscapular artery was invaded by the extension to it of a sloughing process, in consequence of which there occurred a secon- dary hemorrhage that proved fatal, notwithstanding deligation of the sub- clavian artery in the third part of its course:— A soldier, aged 21,2 was wounded May 9, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered the right axilla, two and one-half inches above the lower border of the pectoralis major, and emerged two inches above the posterior fold of the arm-pit. On the 31st the right subclavian artery was tied at its outer third, for secondary hemorrhage from the in- jured parts, which were swollen, sloughy, and painful. The patient was feeble from Ligature of the right subclavian artery for secondary hemorrhage ; the subscapular artery had been opened by •sloughing, and the ulcerous state of this vessel is shown in the cut. Spec. 4331, Sect. I., A. M. M. (Posterior view.) loss of blood ; pulse 130 ; skin hot. The hemorrhage, however, was not suppressed by the operation, for it recurred three times within forty-eight hours; and, on June 2, a branch of the axillary plexus of veins was tied, under chloroform, after cutting through 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, n. 556. ! Ibid., p. 539. Hemorrhage from the sloughing off of the left subscap- ular artery at its origin. Spec. 2835, Sect. I., A. M. M. (Posterior view.)