312 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Fig. 494. The right common iliac artery is covered in front by the peritoneum, the ileum, and, at its termination, by the ureter. The two common iliac veins pass behind it, and, near its origin, the inferior vena cava and the right common iliac vein lie on its outer side. The left common iliac artery is covered ante- riorly by the peritoneum, the rectum, and the superior hemorrhoidal artery, and, at its termi- nation, by the ureter. The left common iliac vein is on the inner side and also behind the artery (Fig. 494). Operation.—Place the patient on his back, but inclining to the opposite side. The course of the vessel can be ascertained by drawing a line from the umbilicus to the middle of Poupart’s liga- ment. Make an incision through the integu- ments and superficial fascia, commencing just anterior to the end of the eleventh rib, downward, one inch and a half within the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and terminating just above the internal abdominal ring by a sharp curve upward and inward (Fig. 495). Showing the relation of the common, external, and internal iliac arteries to their accompanying veins. (Sedillot.) Fig. 495. Showing an operation performed hy Surgeon J. Cooper McKee, V. S. Army, for tying the left Internal and com- mon iliac arteries. From a photograph of the cadaver. The wound of operation was seven inches in length. For an account of the case, see Medical and Surgical History, etc. Second Surgical Volume, p. 334. The entire length of the incision is about seven inches. Next divide the three abdominal muscles, and cautiously separate the fascia transversalis from the peritoneum, beginning at the upper part of the wound where the adhesion is slightest. Now gently raise the peritoneum from the iliac fossa, and press it inward toward the pelvis. Find the external iliac artery by its pulsa- tions, and carry the finger along that vessel, still detaching the peritoneum, until the common trunk is reached. Then the ureter, in front, is carefully pushed aside, and the needle is passed from within outward. There is great danger of tearing the peritoneum while effecting the detach-