ANEURISM. 440 he saw a way of eliminating these troubles altogether. To him belongs the first idea of the temporary ligature, all subsequent inventions being merely various mechanisms for carrying out his object. He found that when a liga- ture, or three or four ligatures, were tightly tied round an artery and imme- diately removed, circulation in the vessel was not restored. From the third to the fifth day, in this series of experiments,1 the animal was killed (in one instance on the nineteenth day), and all the vessels thus treated were found closed by a firm block of “coagulable lymph,” which glued together the wounded inner and middle coats; while outside the vessels a ring of like sub- stance supported and no doubt helped to occlude them. Dr. Jones seems to have possessed no opportunities of testing these results on the human subject, but he infers from analogy that the same consequences would follow like momen- tary applications of the ligature to the vessels of man, and that the method might be used in certain diseases—notably in aneurism. Since this time (1805) temporary ligatures have been fitfully used, and many different modes of employing them invented. Travers* tied knots of a description easily loosened, and left the ligatures longer than Dr. Jones had suggested.3 A few cases thus treated ended successfully, but failure was far too frequent. Scarpa4 next took up the cause, and showed experimentally that the ligature should remain from three to four days. After this period, an in- terval occurs, and we then come to temporary ligatures fastened and loosened by some instrument, this being generally a tube, either single and simple, or divided by a partition like a double-barrelled gun, the loop of the ligature projecting through one extremity, and its ends through the other. Other mechanisms are of the nature of forceps, held closed by spring or screw. The namesof L’Estrange,5 Wolfe,6Porter,7 Bruns,8 Nunneley,9Dix,10 Billroth,11 Bickersteth,12 and many others, are connected with this form of temporary ligature, or its modification, “ filo-pressure.” Many of the instruments are both simple and ingenious; the mode of use is to lay the artery bare, pass the thread or wire round it, slide the tube over this, and secure it with suffi- cient pressure, leaving a means of easy removal. The names of other in- struments, such as the artery compressor and canula forceps, sufficiently indi- cate their nature. Dr. Fleet Speir’s13 method, arid his instrument, or “ artery compressor,” are somewhat different, being rather an imitation of torsion than of deligation; they apply to vessels in continuity that rough handling—that, in the French sense, “ insult to the inner tunics”—which gives to torsion of severed vessels its haemostatic quality. His instrument is a tube, of size corresponding to the vessel under treatment, and carrying a sliding arm ; one end of this pis- ton-like arm carries a hook, the other a screw and nut. When the artery is bared, the hook is passed under it, and then the screw is turned until the hook and the vessel are drawn into the tube ; the pressure thus inflicted ruptures the inner coats rudely enough to make them curl up and retreat within the outer tunic. I Op. cit., chap. iii. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. iv. p. 631. 3 In a deligation of the brachial he had good success (50 hours) ; in one of the superficial femo- ral, failure (27 hours). (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. ix. p. 405.) Roberts cured a popliteal aneurism by leaving the ligature only 24 hours. 4 Memoria e lettere sulla legatura temporaria delle prineipali arterie degli arti, etc. 1825. 5 Dublin Medical Press, 1865. 6 Canula Forceps, British Med. Journal, vol. ii. 1867. 7 Artery Compressor, Dublin Medical Journal, Nov. 2, 1867. 8- Zeitschrift der Chirurgie, Bd. v. S. 317. 9 British Medical Journal, vol. i. 1868. 10 Ibid., vol. ii. 1875. II Chirurgische Briefe aus dem Kriegslazarethen, 1871. 12 Medico-Chirurg. Trans., vol. Ivi. p. 129. 13 New York Medical Record, April, 1871; March, 1872; February, 1873.