589 NEURALGIA IN GENERAL. Diagnosis of Neuralgia.—The diagnosis of neuralgias presents great diffi- culties, as regards their cause and intimate nature; I shall try to state the matter as exactly as possible. Let us first recall the characteristic signs of neuralgia. Neuralgia is characterized by a spontaneous, remittent pain, often grafted upon a dull, continued pain. It is seated along the course of the nerves, and radiates generally from the centre towards the periphery. The pain fre- quently reappears upon pressure at certain ascertained points, and is accom- panied by certain functional disturbances. (1) It is first necessary to diagnosticate neuralgic pains from other pains of central or peripheral origin. Myosalgia or myalgia occupies, not the course of the nerves, hut that of the muscles; it is excited by each contraction of the affected muscle, and presents neither irradiations nor paroxysms. The osteocopic pains of syphilis are generally symmetrical. The pains of chronic poisoning by alcohol or by mercury are most frequently continuous, and limited to the peri-articular structures of the extremities. But it is especially in regard to the pains of posterior myelitis and of locomotor ataxia that the diagnosis should be exact. These pains are not seated over the course of the nerve-trunks or branches, and are not increased by pres- sure. They consist in a series of dartings which occur in a circumscribed region, and sometimes traverse from above downwards the whole extent of the limb. They are comparable to the sensation produced by the electric spark (lightning pains)', at other times they are more persistent, and give the sensation of a gimlet (boring pains) in the bones or articulations. Spinal irritation presents spinous points (points apophysaires) which are cha- racteristic of cutaneous hypersesthesia, with visceral congestions and paretic disorders of the lower extremities. Neuralgia sometimes occurs in an epileptic, and then becomes the occasion of attacks of diverse nature. These phenomena must be carefully investi- gated by a minute examination of the patient. In a case of neuralgia of the inferior dental nerve in a male adult, subject to attacks of coma, death occurred suddenly a few hours after resection of the nerve. The patient’s physicians had advised against any operation, fearing the occurrence of some accident, but had finally yielded to his reiterated requests. (2) The neuralgia being recognized, it is necessary to seek to ascertain its cause, peripheral or central. There may be congestion of the nerve, or of its centre of origin. Gubler con- siders malarial and rheumatic neuralgias to be due to congestion. In neuritis, the pain is continuous, and is increased by pressure over a long extent of the course of the nerve. Paroxysms occur, especially upon move- ment, or upon external excitation; cutaneous hypersesthesia occurs more frequently ; anaesthesia is earlier developed. Rapid muscular atrophy super- venes, with deposit of subcutaneous fat and persistent trophic disturbances, those of neuralgia being especially functional disturbances. Finally, neuritis has a cyclical evolution. To neuritis belong most of the traumatic neuralgias and many of the arthritic and rheumatic neuralgias. Compression of nerves by tumors, by indurated tissue, by cicatrices, or by callus, may cause neuralgias which run a chronic course, are continuous, are accompanied by trophic disturbances, and present, in a word, the symptoms of what Hallopeau has called “ nevralgies-nevrites.” Neuromata and so- called “ irritable” tumors are also accompanied by neuralgia (neuralgia of stumps). What is the exact seat of neuralgia ? Must we admit the existence of a lesion of the nerve-trunk and its terminal branches, or of its sources of origin in