INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 252 point is mentioned, in limine, because of its great practical importance. When the great vessels of the extremities are occluded in accidents or in surgical operations, our sole hope of maintaining the vitality of the member often rests upon protecting the collateral branches from pressure and from obstruction in every form. I. Gangrene from Arterial Occlusion.—The lesions of the main arteries which cause anaemic gangrene are (1) complete division, of which a considerable number of instances have been mentioned in this article; (2) occlusion from the division and recurvation of their inner and middle coats, of which a conside- rable number of cases were mentioned in the section on lacerated wounds and ruptures of arteries; (3) occlusion by compression from blood extravasated within the arterial sheath in consequence of contusion ; (4) occlusion from traumatic thrombosis, the result of arterial contusion and inflammation; (5) occlusion from traumatic embolism., the migratory plugs consisting of blood-clots formed or detached in consequence of injuries ; and (6) occlusion from ligation, or the application of ligatures. Several examples illustrating the last three forms of arterial lesion, in which gangrene ensued, have also been mentioned in the foregoing pages. When anaemic gangrene results exclusively from arterial obstruction, and no impediment whatever exists to the flow of venous blood, it is always a dry gangrene. II. Gangrene from Venous Obstruction.—If we apply to a limb circular compression sufficient to intercept the course of the venous blood, as some- times has been done by bandaging fractured limbs too tightly, the limb swells, turns livid, and mortifies. The tissues perish because the effete or venous blood cannot pass out so as to give room for the fresh arterial blood to enter and nourish them. Thus, venous obstruction, in rare instances, causes mortification, by leaving no way of escape for the blood which has been car- ried into a limb by the arteries, and has there become exhausted of its nutrient properties, or effete. This, however, cannot well happen unless the compres- sion be circular. The venous canals are, as a rule, more numerous, as well as more capacious, than the arteries, so that when one trunk happens to be ob- structed, the others are usually found ready to perform its office. Hot so, however, when several contiguous trunk-veins are occluded; or in cases, where all the vessels of a limb are strongly compressed by a profuse infiltra- tion of serum, or by a copious extravasation of blood, or by a wide-spread effusion of the products of inflammation into the connective tissue of a limb, where the fasciae or aponeuroses, both superficial and deep, being strong and unyielding, act like circular bands to strangulate the parts. Gangrene from venous obstruction is always humid. The injuries which obliterate the venous canals are severance, traumatic thrombosis, deligation, and compression. Many examples of these have been presented in the foregoing pages. The occurrence of venous obstruction is denoted by the development of a cyanotic tumefaction of the limb, wherein the swollen subcutaneous veins can usually be discerned beneath the purple or venous-hued skin; also, by the development of a wide-spread oedeniatops infiltration, by which the affected limb sometimes becomes enormously dis- tended, presenting the features characteristic of phlegmasia alba dolens. III. Gangrene from Obstruction of the Collateral Circulation.—Do the anastomosing branches of arteries (that is, their collateral channels) really perform the important part which I have claimed for them in the causation of anaemic gangrene ? Here, as everywhere else in the domain of practical surgery, the lessons derived from clinical observation are all-important; and