INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 164 artery. In one of them, the fracture was complicated with an external wound of the leg, and with severe primary hemorrhage, which, however, was suppressed by pressure combined with the local use of the perchloride of iron. On the twentieth day the hemorrhage reappeared ; the same means were again employed, but they failed to control it. Finally, Yalette stopped the bleed- ing by digital compression of the femoral artery; and compression thus applied was continued during about ten days, by four journeymen locksmiths, comrades of the patient, who relieved each other every four hours. The wounded man completely recovered. In the other instance, compression of the femoral artery also succeeded, but the success was perhaps less striking, because the hemorrhage was less severe; nevertheless, the result was highly encouraging for the future employment of compression.1 Symptoms of Arterial Laceration due to Fracture.—In cases of simple frac- ture, the occurrence of this accident is denoted by the following signs: tume- faction tense in character, discolored by subcutaneous ecchymosis, increasing rapidly, and pulsating synchronously with the heart; the pulsations them- selves ceasing on compressing the main artery on the cardiac side of the swelling, and returning on withdrawing the compression ; and the tenseness of the swelling growing markedly less under compression of the main artery, to return again when the compression is discontinued. The peculiar thrills and murmurs which are found in spontaneous aneurisms may also be present in diffuse aneurisms from fracture. But the thrill is often, and the murmur sometimes, absent in such cases. For instance, in Verneuil’s case, related above, the presence of a murmur was always dubious. When the arterial wound is very small or very oblique, neither distinct pulsations, nor aneur- ismal thrills, nor aneurismal bruits are to be found, hut only an impulsion, synchronous with the contraction of the heart, is imparted to or discernible by the hand. In an example presented by Dupuytren, a sort of tremulous movement, increasing and diminishing alternately, was perceptible in the swelling, but no distinct pulsation. This tremulous movement, however, ceased when the popliteal artery was compressed; and, at the same time, the swelling wTas observed to become less tense, and to diminish a little in volume. The tremulous movement, and the tension, and the volume of the swelling, too, were restored when the pressure was removed from the artery. The diagnosis was, therefore, not doubtful. Moreover, in certain patients an aneurismal bruit has been recognized in the swelling, when pul- sation, or impulsion, or tremulous movements have been wholly wanting in it. The symptoms of diffuse aneurism may not appear until several days after the fracture, because the artery remains unopened until that time. In one of Pelletan’s cases, they did not appear until the seventy-fifth day. In such cases the artery is, for the most part, penetrated by ulceration from pressure exerted by the fragments. When the fracture is compound and the hemorrhage is external, the blood is bright red, but it rarely issues in jets. As syncope approaches, the bleed- ing can generally be stopped by local applications, but after some days it returns as strongly as ever; it may do so again and again, and, if they be not properly treated, these successive hemorrhages must end by carrying off the patient. One of Yalette’s cases, related above, illustrates this point; so also does one of Dupuytren’s examples. Fr. Poncet2 presents in a tabular form twenty-one cases of diffuse aneurism resulting from fracture of the leg, that occurred in the practice of Pibes, Desault, Dupuytren, Delpech, Mirault, Lisfranc, Guthrie, Travers, and others, 1 Ibid., t. xix. p. 585. Paris, 1874. 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, t. xv. p. 497. Paris, 1872.