566 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. thus cases have been noted, in which sensibility to pain was abolished, while tactile sensibility persisted. Tripier refuses to credit the authenticity of these cases ; but sensibility to temperature may be totally suppressed, while tactile sensibility and sensitiveness to pain continue more or less perfect. Therma-ancesthesia is the most constant and best marked phenomenon which results from lesions of nerves. Patients do not feel the burning produced by a match, but perceive the prick made by a pin. As to tactile sensibility, if it is examined by means of Weber’s compass, in cases of complete section of the nerve, it is, according to Tripier, always impaired; never has he seen, in such a case, the patients able to feel both points of the compass, whatever their separation, though they feel punctures more or less clearly. Let us next inquire what is the distribution of this anaesthesia. During the first moments which follow the traumatism, it is difficult to appreciate with exactness the state of the sensibility, the condition of the patient ren- dering it inadmissible to trust with entire confidence to his replies. It is, however, probable that the complete section of a nerve has always as an imme- diate consequence the loss of sensibility in the territory supplied by the nerve. At a later period, one of two conditions may be presented: either the anaes- thesia persists, thus limited—and these are the most common cases; or else sensibility reappears after a variable time, in the zone innervated by the divided trunk. The first examples cited of this rapid re-establishment of the sensibility, after ten, fifteen, or thirty days (cases of Beclard and of Paget) were explained by a secondary reunion of the parts of the divided nerve, more prompt than was ordinary. The case of Laugier, in which the sensibility reappeared some hours after suture of the two ends of the median nerve, might lead to a belief in the possibility of immediate reunion. But the case published a few years afterwards "by Professor Richet does not admit of this interpretation. Twenty-four hours after section of the median nerve at the lower part of the forearm, before the use of any suture, sensibility existed in the entire hand, with the exception of the palmar surface of the last phalanges of the forefinger. This anomaly could only be explained by the existence of anastomotic or recurrent filaments. The investigations of Arloing and Tripier have,.in the opinion of Pro- fessor Yulpian, definitively established this point in science. In operating upon dogs and cats, these physiologists have ascertained that it is impossible, in the upper extremity, to mark out the portions of skin which, from a func- tional point of view, would be under the control of the ulnar, the median, or the radial nerve. The areas of distribution of these nerves encroach more or less upon each other. As long as a nerve-trunk remains, connecting the ex- tremities of the limb with the nerve-centres, sensibility persists, more or less weakened. Arloing and Tripier have demonstrated that this fact is expli- cable by the existence of true recurrent fibres, which are mutually sent to each other by the different nerves; the recurrence of these fibres occurs principally in the neighborhood of the skin, or in its thickness, where they form a part, more or less, of the peripheral network, and then reascend along the different trunks to spend themselves and disappear at a certain height; these fibres remain intact at their peripheral end, while the direct fibres un- dergo the Wallerian degeneration. These experiments, as the authors recognize, are not directly applicable to man, the distribution of the nerves not being the same as in the cat or in the dog; by analogy, however, they permit a satisfactory explanation of cases similar to that of Professor Richet. (2) Motor Disturbances.—Muscular paralysis is the natural consequence of section of a nerve. May it too be wanting, like anaesthesia ? May there be a