616 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. which was complicated with a true hydrophobia, and, finally, Girard1 has attempted to demonstrate the identity of the two diseases. The principal elements of diagnosis are the much longer incubation in hydrophobia, vary- ing between three and twelve weeks, and the complete remission of the con- traction in the intervals between the hydrophobic paroxysms. Spinal meningitis may be distinguished by the cyclical course of its tempe- rature, and by the different type of its contractions, soon followed by para- lysis. It seems equally difficult to admit a possible confusion between the tonic spasms of tetanus and the clonic convulsions of epilepsy, which are accompanied by a complete loss of consciousness. The much more rapid course of the symptoms, with intervals of absolute remission if the poison has been taken in several doses, permits the recognition of poisoning by strych- nine. The diagnosis of tetanus may be rendered more difficult if it is compli- cated with hysterical phenomena, which more or less distort its usual type; the great variability in the manifestations of hysteria do not permit the laying down of rules for diagnosis upon this subject. It will be the part of the practitioner to endeavor to separate, in each case, that which belongs to each of these two diseases. The diagnosis of tetanus of the new-born from ursemic brain-disease of tetanic form, has not yet been referred to, but we have seen that the exist- ence of true tetanus is doubtful in these conditions, and we must therefore wait for new observations upon this point. Finally, ought tetanus to be distinguished from tetany (intermittent tetanus, contraction of the extremities); or should this, as it is by some authors, be con- sidered one and the same disease with spontaneous tetanus ? The mild cases, in which the contraction, being frankly intermittent and brought back by compression of the limb, is limited to the extremities, seem evidently quite distinct. But there are grave cases, where the contraction is generalized, and where the disease may become fatal. Although the mode of onset, the course of the contraction—which goes from the extremities to the trunk— and the possibility of causing it by compression of the limbs (characters indi- cated by Trousseau), may permit the recognition of tetany, yet the existence of this grave form tends to affirm the physiological relationship, if I may venture so to speak, of these two clinically distinct affections. Prognosis.—From what has been said above, it results that tetanus is a very grave disease, and that death is always to be feared, even in the forms apparently the most benign; but its prognosis is far from being fatal. It is a little less grave in cases of spontaneous tetanus and traumatic tetanus with- out wound, and in those which begin a long time after the traumatism. The gravity of the traumatism itself, does not seem to have any influence upon that of tetanus. The cases in which the onset is by trismus, are more grave than those in which pains and centripetal convulsions are observed in the injured limb ; at least the latter are much more accessible to active interven- tion. Finally, much importance has been attached to the duration of the disease; it is true that the slow forms are less grave, but we have seen that death may yet occur at the end of several weeks. It is important to inquire what may be the influence of treatment upon the termination of tetanus. Must we maintain the absolute distinction into two forms, the one acute, inevitably mortal, and the other chronic, which recovers by itself, and in which the sole part of therapeutics is to prevent death by asphyxia and give the patient ease ? I believe it more correct to Sur la non-existence d’un virus rabique. Lyon, 1827.