ANEURISM. 528 their combination certain of the symptoms may, especially if early in the case, be wanting. (1) For Deligation of Left Carotid.—Tumor symptoms upon and somewhat, but not far, to the left of middle line, and rising into episternal notch, or beneath left sterno-mastoid. Left venous congestion; alteration of left carotid, and to a much less degree of left radial pulse. Paralysis of left vocal cord; obstruction to entrance of air, equal on both sides of chest; sometimes altera- tion of left pupil.1 (2) For Deligation of Right Carotid and, Subclavian.—Tumor symptoms on right of median line. Marked changes in right radial and carotid pulse. Venous congestion on right side, affecting first and chiefly head and neck. Afterwards, with' increase of tumor, right arm and chest, and right vocal cord, may be paralyzed. Tumor symptoms on right of and upon mesial line, running up to sterno- clavicular joint and episternal notch; venous congestion on left side; altera- tion of right pulse (radial and carotid); tracheal dyspnoea. Tumor further to the right, and lower (second space); congestion equal on both sides; no marked difference between the two pulses; heart displacement, chiefly outward. Pressure on right bronchus; left lung perfectly free; with puerile respiration, and perhaps emphysema. With any of these conditions, changes of the right pupil may be com- bined. (3) Doubtfid Signs, only to be Read by the Light of other Symptoms.—Venous congestion on the left side; tracheal dyspnoea; dysphagia. (4) Operation should be Avoided.—When tumor symptoms reach widely on both sides of mesial line. When, with paralysis of left vocal cord, there is obstruction of right bronchus. When “locomotive” pulse, thrill, and double murmur, show considerable aortic incompetence. When there is mitral dis- ease or considerable cardiac hypertrophy.2 When there is, in the course of the aorta, the rasping sound of calcification or advanced atheroma, more par- ticularly if the superficial vessels are felt to be rough and rigid. When there is pain about the spine and intercostal nerves ;• when there is obstruc- tion of the left bronchus only ; when there is pressure on the left apex, and expectoration of frothy blood. To these positive signs, I would add a nega- tive one, viz., the symptoms being so indefinite as to render any diagnosis as to the site of the aneurism doubtful. Results of Simultaneous Double Distal Ligature.—I have been restrained by considerations of space from giving, for the more usual deligations, the lists of operations, since tables of names, dates, results, etc., would in a work like- this be inadmissible; but here, partly because the cases are comparatively few, partly to show the importance of the views which I have expressed con- cerning the conditions of the heart and aorta, the whole list, twenty-seven in number, shall be given in full. The first twenty-four cases were all of aneurism supposed to be innominate. 1 I would, carefully exclude such aneurisms as spring from the aorta beyond the orifice of the- left carotid, as more likely to be injured than benefited by tying that vessel; whether any such cases could gain by deligation of the left subclavian, is doubtful, or has at all events not yet been proved. 2 Aneurism of the aortic arcb offers a certain resistance to the blood-stream, and thereby is rapidly productive of a certain cardiac hypertrophy. Unless this be severe, it need not negative operation if the valves be sound ; a much smaller hypertrophy is deterrent if there be also aortic incompetence. Perhaps it will be well also to point out a circumstance which should induce us to insist strongly on operation, with as little delay as possible. Aneurisms of the ascending and cardiac part of the transverse aorta cause the mass of blood a little above the valves to be large in amount; hence it falls with undue force on the valves, which can be liearcL to close with violence—the*door is slammed rather than shut. If this be allowed to go on,, incompetence will soon be produced.