335 ARTERITIS. an extension of inflammation from the surrounding tissues into the arterial wall, as in phagedsena. Ireatment.—JSTo unvarying plan of treatment can be laid out for traumatic arteritis. The circumstances of each case must be separately considered. To prevent gangrene, and to guard against hemorrhage, are the indications most to be regarded. Rest, position, quiet, and careful nutrition, are the most important points of treatment. Traumatic arteritis resulting from causes within the vessels usually begins as an endarteritis. It may never involve any other tunic than the intima. Many cases of acute traumatic endarteritis are described as idiopathic inflam- mations. They are none the less due to violence—to the impinging force of the blood-current—for this lesion occurs at those points in the arterial system where the pressure is greatest. Endarteritis and the fatty degeneration resulting from it (Figs. 513, 514) are most frequently seen in the sinus magnus of the aorta, in the transverse segment of the arch of the aorta, at the aortic bifurcation into the two common iliacs, and in the arch of the innominate. The arteries of athletes, which are subjected to prolonged distention resulting from violent muscular exercise, are prone to suffer from this disease. Vegetations from the heart may produce endarteritis when they are exten- sive enough to pass through the aortic valves. Fragments from whatever source, carried aloug the vessels, produce arteritis at the point of lodgment. If we examine the intima of an artery which has been the seat of recent end- arteritis, it will be seen to he swollen, and thicker and softer than in healthy vessels. The swelling is not usually general and continuous, but occurs in patches or hillocks of quite regular contour, which project into the lumen of the vessel. The intima is usually injected, and reddish in color, though, ac- cording to Cornil and Ranvier, when the inflammation has been of a very severe type, the swollen intima is paler than normal. If the inflammation be of recent origin, these patches will present an unbroken surface, but if softening has occurred, the centres of the elevations break down, resulting in erosions or ulcers as they have been styled by some pathologists. Green says that they are due to softening of the intercellular substance, and that the cells and granular matter, becoming loose from this softening, are washed out Fig. 513. Fig. 514. Arteritis with fatty degeneration. Showing fatty degeneration of the intima of the aorta. The nuclei of the normal cells are represented hy the larger bodies, one of which is seen at m ; the smaller bodies, as at g, are fatty granules. Magnified 400 diameters. (Prom Cornil and Ranvier.) A form of fatty degeneration after arteritis. Fatty degeneration of the internal coat of the aorta. Minute yellowish-white patches scattered over the lining mem- brane of the vessel. A very thin layer peeled off and magnified 200 diameters, showing fat molecules and the distribution of fat in the intima. (From Green.)