542 ANEURISM. a very good night. Sinus surrounded with granulations. No pain in hand until towards evening, when it became severe. Temperature taken on both sides, when it was found to be 101.4° in the right axilla, and 100.4° in the left. Complained of heat in the right arm. Had a hypodermic injection, after which he slept for two hours, and awoke free from pain. Temperature again taken—right axilla, 99.6°, left 98.8°. 28th. Morning temperature 98.4° ; pulse 104. Passed a good night. Swallowing easy. About half a drachm of pus escaped from sinus. Some shreds of yellow elastic tissue washed out. Pain in the arm again, followed by rise in temperature—right 100°, left 99.4°. Had a purgative mixture as before. July 2 (24th day). Opening of sinus the size of a pin-hole. A few drops of pus escaped. Temp. : right 99.4°, left 99°. July 4 (26th day). Sinus closed ; pain in hand recurred as before. July 6 (28th day). Sinus opened, and half a drachm of pus pressed out. Tempera- ture rose to 100° in the evening. July 8 (30th day). Pulsation visible at apex of flap, coming from portion of the inno- minate. Passed a very good day. At 11.15 P. M., patient noticed that he was bleed- ing. Hemorrhage had stopped when he was seen by the house-surgeon. Mr. Stokes and Mr. Thornley Stoker saw the patient with me soon afterwards. Wound examined; no bleeding. Dressing renewed with a shot-bag over all. Amount of blood lost about three ounces. Hypodermic injection of morphia. Ice. July 9 (31st day). Passed a good day. No bleeding. Ergot ordered. Morning temp. 98.6°, pulse 100; evening temp. 100.4°, pulse 104. July 10 (32d day). Very quiet day. gr. of atropia every fourth hour. Small quantity of pus. July 11 (33d day). Some minute sloughs discharged on syringing. July 14 (36tli day). Says he is very well.' Morning temp. 98.6°, evening 100°. Sulphide of calcium gr. ^ three times a day. July 16 (38th day). Patient says he has not felt so well since the operation. Morn- ing temp. 98.2°, pulse 96; evening temp. 100°, pulse 104. A few drops of pus. July 17 (39th day). At half-past three this morning a terrific hemorrhage took place. The clothes were saturated, and the blood ran in a large stream on the floor. The patient was greatly blanched and collapsed. Mr. Kidd gave a hypodermic injection of ether. Cold, clammy sweat, flickering pulse, voice a mere whisper. Patient did not lose consciousness, but said he could not see. When I saw the patient, bleeding had stopped. The patient had then rallied somewhat, and complained of pains in his head and limbs. Increased pressure was made with shot-bags, the dressings not being disturbed. Warm jars placed to feet and body. Further stimulation prohibited. Ice and beef-tea in small quantities. July 18 (40th day). No bleeding. Seen with me by my colleagues, and by Dr. R. McDonnell and Professor Bennett. Very weak. Treatment as before. Pain in limbs treated with morphia. July 19 (41st day). Has rallied considerably. His expression is much improved. Color has returned to his face, and his pulse is stronger, but jerky. Pain in limbs. As patient’s bedding had not been disturbed since the hemorrhage, he was carefully lifted by seven persons, and a clean mattress, etc., substituted. July 20 (42d day). Complained of difficulty of breathing at 2 A. M., and much pain. Had half a grain of morphia subcutaneously. Slept for some time, and died quietly at 8.15 A. M. There was no recurrence of bleeding. Post-mortem Examination.—An autopsy was held a few hours after death, but as any interference had been forbidden by the patient’s son, a partial examination only could be made. Only the parts actually involved in the disease and the operation could be removed. A small opening in the skin was the only part that appeared unhealed. The rest of the incisions were firmly cicatrized. The size of the tumor was 2^ by 2^ inches. When the skin was reflected, there was no trace of infiltration of parts, and no sign of blood. The opening in the skin led into a small cavity containing about a drachm of pus. When this was removed, the cavity was found to be about three-quarters of an inch in depth, above and slightly behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation, point-