ANEURISM. 428 such eases have been cured by mere voluntary flexion in bed. The surgeon may judge if it be advisable to try this mode of treatment by observing whether bending of the limb produce any diminution of pulse; if not, the employment of this method is probably unadvisable. Powerful, or indeed any flexion beyond a very moderate amount, ought not to be attempted, even for experiment, on large, thin-walled aneurisms, since rupture has more than once followed such an incautious proceeding. Over-zealous and too persistent efforts at cure by this means occasionally injure the joint subjected to flexion.1 On the Choice of Cases for Different Forms of Pressure.—We may now advantageously pause to consider the advantages and disadvantages of these different forms of pressure, especially for aneurisms about limbs, as also the cases in which they are severally most applicable. It is of course to be under- stood that the surgeon undertaking to treat a case by these means does not limit himself to the use of one form alone, but will vary or alternate his resources according to circumstances. Flexion, which is but a mode of pressure, is most successful for aneurisms situated at or below the middle joint of the limb; it probably combines in one, proximal, distal, and direct pressure. It should never he used for a large aneurism in the bend of the hip-joint, lest it rupture the sac. It is not a very potent means of treatment, that is, it wall not, or at least will very rarely, benefit an aneurism with thin wTalls which is still increasing; but if the dis- ease have already considerable tendency to spontaneous cure, that is, if the tumor be hard, and have barely increased for some little time, flexion even very moderately applied may cause consolidation. I have known of more than one popliteal aneurism, the tendency of wdiich to cure was so great that mere rest in bed, wTith the knee voluntarily kept bent by the patient, has given to nature all the necessary assistance. In choosing the treatment to be applied in any case, flexion suggests itself among others to the surgeon; hut I would not recommend this method, unless it should be found that a not ex- cessive degree of flexion stopped pulsation of the aneurism, entirely or in great part. The method may also be used to assist other forms of treatment, as sometimes simultaneously, or better alternating, with indirect pressure, or in recurrent pulsation after ligature. Indirect pressure (gradual) is also most likely to succeed when a tendency to spontaneous cure is manifested by some accumulation of clot in the sac. The greater the amount of consolidation, that is to say, the harder the tumor, and the more distant the-pulsation, the more likely is cure to follow upon pres- sure. It is not intended to assert that, if the evidence of clot be small, failure must necessarily result, but it is probable that success if attained at all will be long postponed. Before commencing such treatment, we must weigh the probable duration by the above scale against the character of the individual. To employ pressure in the case of an irritable person; of one habitually restless and unable to bear confinement, or to remain long in one position \ or of one who is impatient of pain and discomfort, while intolerant of sedatives, would be to court failure. For such persons the digital is preferable to the instru- mental method, the presence of other persons, and the diversion of talk and of constant changes, distracting thought from the sense of discomfort. The frequent intermission of a night for untrammelled sleep and quiet is generally, if the cure he protracted, advisable. The rapid method of treatment by compression is more especially adapted to abdominal aneurisms, whether of the aorta or of the iliacs; to high femoral (inguinal), and, perhaps, to carotid aneurisms—that is to say, to cases in For further directions as to this method, see popliteal aneurism.