573 PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. have said, the vaso-motor nerves of the lung do not seem, according to the experiments of Yulpian, to he contained in the pneumogastrics. It is there- fore impossible to decide this question. Do the experiments made upon the trifacial lead to a clearer interpretation of the observed changes ? Here again the paralytic congestion due to section of the vaso-motor nerves contained in the trifacial does not explain the in- flammatory lesions, since section of the sympathetic itself determines a much more marked congestion without nutritive disturbances. This congestion, then, cannot be considered but as a predisposing cause. The hypothesis of a direct trophic disturbance has more partisans. But do there exist in the trifacial nerve any special trophic fibres, or, on the con- trary, is the nutritive influence common to all the fibres of the nerve trunk ? On the other hand, are the lesions due to a destruction or to an irritation of these fibres ? Meissner and Merkel admitted that the trophic fibres of the trifacial were contained in the internal part of the nerve-trunk. There would be no dis- turbances of the eye if this internal part were avoided, and if only the ex- ternal part were cut. Inflammatory disturbances would then be produced by the suppression of certain fibres of the trifacial. Samuel, on the con- trary, thinks that these phenomena are caused by irritation of the cut nerve. By thrusting two needles into the Gasserian ganglion of a rabbit, and passing through these needles an induced current, for some time, he caused the de- velopment of the same phlegmasic lesions of the eye. This experiment seems unsatisfactory to M. Yulpian, on account of the situation of the Gas- serian ganglion, and the difficulty of being certain that the ganglion alone is involved. The trophic disturbances observed in man as a result of neuralgia or neuritis of the trifacial, would seem, however, favorable to Samuel’s hypothesis. But the complexity of clinical observations scarcely permits, according to Yulpian, of their being invoked in support of any particular hypothesis in a discussion of this kind. There remains the hypothesis of external injury. Snellen and Buttner have shown that if, after section of the trifacial, the eye is protected, either by means of the ear, which remains sensitive through the action of the cervical nerves, or by means of a thick piece of leather, there is no alteration of the cornea at the end of six, eight, or even ten days. Eberth, relying upon these facts, explains the ocular lesions and the keratitis by the action of micrococci in the air which lodge and multiply upon the cornea, which is anaesthetic, and deprived of the power of resistance by the suppression of its nerve filaments. It is thus seen that no more light has been thrown upon this side of the question than upon the pulmonary alterations consecutive to a section of the vagi. “It seems certain to me,” .says Prof. Yulpian, “that these disturb- ances of nutrition are due neither to an irritation of the cut nerve-fibres nor to a paralysis of the vaso-motor fibres contained in the nerve; but after eli- minating these suppositions, we find oui’selves in the presence of hypotheses upon the value of which we have no sufficient information.” If the experi- ments of Snellen are to be trusted, the contact of foreign bodies is the deter- mining cause of the alterations, the vaso-motor paralysis creating conditions favorable to the development of inflammation. This also seems to be the true explanation of the cases of inflammation with ulceration which are observed as the result of sections of the peripheral nerves, of the sciatic, for example. In this case, the part played in the pro- duction of the ulcerations observed in animals by pressure of the foot upon the ground, or of the bones upon the soft parts, does not appear questionable.