WOUNDS OF VEINS. 207 S. Cooper has published a noteworthy instance of an oblique gunshot wound opening the internal jugular vein, in which death ensued from the pressure that was exerted on the air-passages by the subtegumentary extravasation of blood:— A soldier was shot, the ball entering behind the mastoid process and passing down- ward and forward toward the sternum. The internal jugular was divided; the man lived more than an hour, but was suffocated by the pressure on the trachea of a large mass of extravasated blood which could not escape outwardly.1 Breaches in the walls of the internal jugular vein made by gunshot mis- siles sometimes heal spontaneously. There are at least two examples on record:— Dr. Stromeyer saw, at Colding, a Schleswig-Holstein soldier who had been shot in the right side of the lower jaw, and across the neck under the tongue, the ball lodging and remaining unextracted. There had been no hemorrhage. The patient died, at the end of three weeks, from pyaemia. At the autopsy an abscess was found behind the left sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, in which the flattened bullet lay near the verte- bral column. “ The internal jugular vein had been torn to the extent of five lines on its antero-outer aspect; but the rent was completely healed, as the coats of the vein had applied themselves to it from behind, and were united thereto, so that the cylinder of the vessel was diminished one-half.”2 Dr. Schwarz observed the other case : A rifle-ball, entering the mouth, shattered the lower jaw, tore open the internal jugular vein, and, lodging at the aperture, restrained the bleeding. Suppuration ensued, with death from pyasmia. An autopsy showed a completely healed rent in the outer wall of the vein, the cylinder of which was slightly diminished, but free. At the cicatrix, the coats of the vein were thickened by plastic deposits, and a very adherent, semi-organized layer of lymph coated the lining mem- brane. The small veins contiguous to the abscess, in which lay the ball, were filled with broken-down coagula.3 The prognosis in gunshot wounds that involve the internal jugular vein is very bad. Dr. S. W. Dross was unable to find on record a single case of re- covery from this lesion. “ On the contrary, all the cases have proved fatal; 62.5 per cent, from secondary hemorrhage; 25 per cent, from pyaemia, and 12.5 per cent, from primary hemorrhage.”4 Recovery from gunshot lesions of the internal jugular must he very rare ; for an extended search has failed to furnish me with even one undoubted case of such a recovery. The First Surgical Volume of the History of the War contains, however, the abstracts of two successful cases of gunshot wound of the neck, in each of which it is probable that the internal jugular was injured.5 Shot wounds of the axillary vein were occasionally noted during our late civil war; but no example was reported of a shot-wound of the subclavian vein that came under treatment. The case reported by Mr. Blenkins,6 where a ball passed between the right subclavian artery and vein, wounding the latter and causing fatal phlebitis, remains the solitary recorded instance. But, as Mr. Fraser observes, the exemption is ideal rather than real, for probably a large proportion of those killed in battle die from torn blood- vessels. Wounds of the Sinuses of the Dura Mater.—Brief mention must be made of the traumatic lesions which have been observed in the great venous 1 First Lines of the Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 529. New York, 1822. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1867, p. 40. 8 Ibid., p. 40. 4 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1867, p. 36. 6 Op. cit., pp. 412, 422. 6 Fraser, Treatise on Penetrating Wounds of the Chest, p. 13.