CONTRACTURES OF FASCIA?. 23 well as anatomical interest. Very scantily supplied with bloodvessels, and nourished largely by imbibition, they are in themselves but little prone to inflammation (which, however, does at times occur, producing effects to be presently considered), but are, when inter-muscular, easily affected by con- tiguous disease, which, cutting off the blood supply, causes necrosis, resulting in the separation of extensive sloughs. The denser and more external layers of fascia, by hindering the distension of inflamed structures, greatly aggravate the attendant pain, and when sup- puration has occurred, may very decidedly increase the difficulty of spon- taneous evacuation of the pus, and the dangers consequent upon its presence, favoring, or actually compelling, burrowing of matter among the neighbor- ing tissues, or its diversion towards more important parts. Thus, a sub- aponeurotic inflammation of the head will, if left to itself, spread widely under cover of the fascia, and cause much and dangerous destruction of tissue. Because of the overlying fascia, the swelling of a parotid inflammation may produce even fatal compression of the great vessels of this region, and the resulting pus may be compelled to find an outlet through the ear or the mouth, or to infiltrate the neck. Again, pus in the episternal pocket much more readily makes its way inwards and downwards to the anterior mediastinal space than through the external sheet of the deep fascia to the surface. As we have already seen, deep-seated inflammations of the forearm rapidly extend along the intermuscular septa towards and beyond the elbow, and extensive suppuration and sloughing are likely to occur; and a similar course is often taken by sub-aponeurotic phlegmons of the leg. At times pus is thus directed in a favorable rather than an unfavorable way, as in caries of the dorso-lumbar vertebrae, when by the firm sheath of the psoas it is led downwards towards the groin, or by the lumbar fascia outwards and backwards to the flank. Accurate knowledge, therefore, of the position and attachments of fascise will enable the surgeon to foreknow the probable course of an inflammation, and will lead to an early opening of the resulting abscess, in order that the destruction of tissue may, as far as possible, be limited, and that local and constitutional dangers may be averted. Repair of Fascial Wounds.—Because of the small number of nutrient vessels distributed to fasciae, as already mentioned, primary union of their wounds cannot be effected—a fact to be borne in mind when one of the dense external aponeuroses has been incised or lacerated. Contractures of Fascia:.—As the result of chronic inflammation of low grade, resulting either from diathetic conditions, or from repeated though not severe injuries, shortening of a fascia at times takes place, with consequent deformity, more or less marked according to circumstances. Such con- tractures, as also the similar fascial conditions resulting from diseases of con- tained or covered structures (bones, ligaments or muscles), become important in direct proportion to their extent and the functional value of the parts affected. When the external portion of the fascia lata is thus diseased, pro- gressive shortening may go on until the leg is strongly and permanently flexed upon the thigh; in which case nothing but an extensive division of the tense band will suffice for the removal of the deformity; and even then the relief may be but temporary, recontraction often taking place, notwith- standing the faithful use of mechanical appliances. Dupuytren’s Finger Contraction.—The most important, because the most frequent, of these fascial contractures is, undoubtedly, that of the palmar fascia, producing the so-called “ Dupuytren’s finger contraction.” This