191 INCISED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. In the following example the dorsal artery of the foot was ligatured on this, plan with a good result:— Private James Lasby, Co. G, 23d Infantry, aged 33, while chopping wood at Fort Colville, on December 15, 1868, cut his right foot with a sharp axe. The flexor ten- dons of the foot, the dorsalis pedis artery, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe were divided, causing a gaping wound four inches in length. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the dorsalis pedis artery was ligated, and the wound closed by inter- rupted suture. The wound failed to unite by first intention, and, on Dec. 20, the ligature was removed. The patient was returned to duty in March, 1869.1 Distal ligatures must be applied to wounded arteries in the foot and legy as in the hand and arm, in order to guard against the regurgitating hemor- rhage which, in their absence, would result from the remarkably free inoscu- lations of the terminal branches with each other by means of the plantar arches, etc., in the one case, and of the palmar arches, etc., in the other. Hemorrhage from incised wounds of the foot, ankle, and leg, when the wound is recent and the parts are sound, will give the surgeon but little trou- ble provided he treats it on the orthodox plan of bringing the bleeding point distinctly into view, applying a ligature on each side of it, and dividing the artery midway between the ligatures, so that the ends may retract. During the late civil war, three hundred and fifty-seven cases of incised and punctured wounds of the upper extremities were reported. There were four deaths: two from neglected arterial bleeding, one from gangrene, and one from a fever long after the wound had healed.2 Incised wounds of the brachial artery have already been discussed at sufficient length. The exam- ples of punctured wounds of the brachial artery and the remarks thereon, given at page 120, should also he examined in this connection. Incised wounds of the shoulder are sometimes attended by a tremendous hemorrhage from lesion of some branch of the axillary or subclavian artery, as happened in the following instance, where the posterior circumflex artery was opened:— Private Thomas Quigley, Co. G, 17th Infantry, aged 21, received, at Sulphur Springs, Texas, on December 24, 1868, an incised wound of the left shoulder, eight inches in length, from the shoulder downward. He was admitted to the post hospital; he had fainted from the loss of blood, and his pulse was almost imperceptible. The wound was explored, and the posterior circumflex artery, which was found injured and bleeding, was securely tied ; the edges of the wound were brought together and held by silk sutures and adhesive plaster. On December 31 the wound was healing rapidly. In February, 1869, the patient was returned to duty.3 This case usefully illustrates the plan of treatment which should be carried out in all cases of hemorrhage from incised wounds of the shoulder and arm where the lesser arteries are involved. The wound must be explored, and the bleeding vessel must be brought into plain view, and securely tied. In this way the very best possible results are obtained. But stuffing such wounds with lint soaked in the persulphate or perchloride of iron has often been attended with disastrous consequences. How should incised wounds of the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries be treated ? On this point the brief presentation of a few cases will give the requisite information in a convenient way. When the radial artery is completely divided, properly adjusted compres- sion at the wound will not unfrequently stop the bleeding permanently, as it did in a case reported by Dr. Franz in the Medical and Surgical History of the War.4 But this is not always, nor even generally, the best practice, and 1 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., p. 243. 2 Med. and Surg. Hist., Second Surg. Vol., pp. 436, 437. 3 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., p. 243. 4 Second Surg. Vol., p. 436.