204 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. boring soft parts were pulpified, although the skin was not broken. The arm sphacelated, and the man died on the 23d. The subclavian artery was obliterated where it leaves the first rib. The subclavian vein was torn open, and thus the extravasated blood with which the injured parts were distended had been supplied.1 The large veins sometimes get torn open when their coats are weakened by disease, as occurred in the following case where the internal jugular was ruptured during the performance of an operation for epithelioma of the neck:— “ The tumor was removed in September, 1876, the external jugular vein being tied. In March, 1878, the patient returned, and had the growth removed a second time. During the operation the internal jugular vein gave way, its walls being involved and softened, and was tied above and below. The patient made a good recovery, and in July, 1880, was known to be alive and well.”2 When this accident occurs,-the vein must be tied above and below without delay, as was done in this case; and when the internal jugular is the injured vein, it certainly is not necessary to tie the common carotid artery, as pro- posed by Langenbeck, unless its tunics are also involved in the disease for which the operation of removal is performed. Spontaneous rupture of the internal jugular vein, with the formation of a cervical thrombus, etc., may occur, as happened in the following instance reported by Nelaton:— The thrombus caused great swelling of the neck. It was opened to relieve the ex- treme dyspnoea which it produced by pressing on the air-passages, under the supposition that it was an abscess. The hemorrhage that followed was so copious that the incision was prolonged in order to bring into view its source, which was found to be an oval opening into the internal jugular vein. This Nelaton plugged with a cylinder of agaric, and the bleeding did not return. It came on during scarlatina.3 Moreover, the tunics of the internal jugular vein may be so much weakened by an abscess of a contiguous gland, that they will give way, and allow a thrombus of the neck to ensue; and if the issue of blood from the aperture in the vein cannot be controlled by the application of agaric and pressure, the vein itself must be ligated above and below the aperture with carbolized catgut. In those instances where the aperture in the wall of the vein is small, as it appears to have been in the case reported by Nelaton, the appli- cation of agaric with compression will probably succeed in restraining the hemorrhage. Gunshot Wounds op Veins.—The nature and importance of the subject can be best shown by presenting brief abstracts of some examples:— A soldier, aged 24,4 was wounded May 22, 1863, and entered a general hospital on the 27th. The ball entered midway between the left trochanter major and the apex of the coccyx, passed obliquely through the lower part of the pelvis and upper part of the right thigh, and emerged in the right femoral region, one inch below Poupart’s liga- ment. Patierft stated that very profuse hemorrhage occurred immediately after the reception of the wound ; and, at every considerable motion of the patient, blood escaped from the femoral orifice of the wound, despite the pressure of compresses. Urine escaped from both orifices of the wound. On the 30th, slight diarrhoea, accompanied by deep jaundice, appeared. On June 4, the patient expired. Necroscopy revealed that the prostate gland, at its junction with the bladder, was cut away ; that there was 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War, First Surgical Volume, p. 527. 2 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxiii. (1880) ; also American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1881, pp. 481, 482. 3 Journ. de Med. et de Chirurg., t. xxii., November, 1861, p. 499. 4 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol.. pp. 304, 339.