139 CONTUSED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 3 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 412. by shot or shell, but not carried away, the coats of the artery are often found to remain continuous, and primary hemorrhage to be thus rendered impos- sible, although their vitality may have been totally destroyed.”1 I have never seen this form of vascular contusion, but still I can readily conceive that it sometimes occurs in those terrible bruises of the extremities which are not unfrequently produced by cannon balls, or bombs, or rifled shells, ■without breach of the integuments. In such cases the continuity of the bloodvessels is preserved until the dead tissues become separated from the living, for the same reason that the integuments remain unbroken until this time arrives. The Army Medical Museum at Washington contains a specimen of railway injury, which must be classified under the head of contusions. It is “a wet preparation of the axillary artery, curiously obliterated at the passage of the pectoralis minor. The attached subclavian vein is ruptured. In this subject the humerus and clavicle were comminuted, and the soft parts between the shoulder-joint and the sternum pulpified b}r being crushed between two cars. Ho pulsation could be felt at the wrist, and sphacelus from the shoulder to the arm occurred.”2 The patient was admitted to hospital on July 20, and died on the 23d. Again, contusions of arteries not unfrequently lay the foundation for un- healthy inflammations to open their channels and thus cause secondary hemor- rhage, when, but for the occurrence of a destructive inflammation, their walls would have remained intact, as happened in the following instance. A soldier, aged 28, was wounded at Gettysburg, July 2, 1863, by a minie-ball, which passed through the inner side of his left arm, across the track of the brachial artery, about three inches below the fold of his armpit, without injury to the humerus ; and, thence, proceeding to his thorax, made a so-called seton-wound on the left side thereof. He was taken to a general hospital where, after doing well for some time, the bullet-hole in his arm was attacked with a sloughing inflammation which connected the two orifices in an open sore ; and on the night of August 3, thirty-two days after the casualty, it opened the brachial artery. Great loss of blood ensued, until a proximal ligature was applied to the artery in the wound. He did well after that, and the wound healed in a short time. On October 16, 1864, when I last saw him, the wounded arm was much atrophied, blue-colored, colder than the sound limb, weak, and much restricted in the range of its movements. There was a large cicatrix on the inner side of his left arm, two or three inches below the armpit. There was a radial pulse in this limb, but it was quite small in volume, and quite feeble in strength. On the 17th, he was discharged from the service for these disabilities, at Stanton Hospital. In this case the bruising of the artery, in all probability, would not have been attended with any serious consequences, had the wound remained free from destructive inflammation ; for a month or more elapsed before hemorrhage occurred, and arterial fibres killed by contusion would have separated long before that time. An example of secondary hemorrhage from a bruised common carotid artery, occurring in a person whose vitality was much lowered by simulta- neous injury of the spinal cord, is reported in the “ Surgical History of the War.” A soldier received a shot-wound of the neck, January 3, 1863, and was admitted to hospital on the 4th. The missile passed through his neck, dividing the inter-vertebral substance and laying open the spinal cord. He did not seem to suffer much; but, on the night of the 14th, secondary hemorrhage supervened, and before any assistance could be rendered, he lost so much blood that he died on the evening of the 15th. At the necroscopy it was found that sloughing of the common carotid artery had taken place.3 1 Surgical History of the British Army in the Crimean War, vol. ii. 340. 2 Catalogue A. M. M., p. 468, Specimen 1640.