WOUNDS OP VEINS. 211 might at first sight appear due to injury of one or more of the coats. The external and internal tunics can be made to glide over the furrow by the finger, showing that some lesion exists in the middle coat, and a superficial exami- nation would leave the opinion that it had been completely divided. A minute examination and dissection, however, clearly disclose that only the inner layer of the middle coat, consisting of circular elastic fibres, has been cut, or rather separated, leaving the longitudinal fibres unharmed and closely ■connected with the uninjured external tunic. With the exception, then, of the impression made upon the inner layer of the middle tunic, none of the coats suffer division. The external tunic seems to he as strong as that of an artery in resisting a ligature. The middle tunic differs from that of an artery in having longitudinal as well as circular fibres, the former being composed of white fibrous tissue with elastic fibres, the latter of elastic fibres arranged in the same manner as those of an artery, with an admixture of a large quantity of unstriped muscular fibres. The inner tunic is more dense. and tough, but not nearly as lacerable as that of an artery, and can be stripped off from the middle coat much more readily and to a greater extent. The inner tunic of the ascending cava has been peeled off in one unbroken patch of more than two inches, and on applying a ligature to it, it suffered no division. It is thus seen that the anatomical structure of a vein differs ma- terially from that of an artery, and that, when ligatured, none of its coats are completely divided, as is the case with the latter vessel.1 Ligatures, however, when tightly drawn around veins, always make enough impression on the deep layer of the middle tunic to keep them from slipping off from the ends after the vessel is severed. Subsequently, the changes wrought by the application of ligatures to veins are strictly analogous to those which take place in ligated arteries. A coag- ulum forms on the distal side of the thread; it becomes organized, and unites with the inner tunic. If a ligature of animal origin, such as carbo- lized catgut, has been applied, the approximated walls grow directly toge- ther, and the ligature itself disappears by absorption, or is replaced by new connective tissue. But if a ligature of silk has been employed, as it cuts its way through the vein by ulceration, the tunics at the ends unite either by the first intention or by adhesive inflammation, and the obliterated por- tion is ultimately converted into a firm fibro-ligamentous cord. Veins may, and often do, undergo repair after ligature without any inflammation whatever, whether adhesive or otherwise, as Mr. Travers was the first to show. Three preparations illustrate this fact. One, in the Museum of St. Thomas’s Hos- pital, is thus described: “ Appearance of a vein divided by the ligature, which came away on the twenty-fifth day. The upper part of the vein is filled with firm layers of coagula, which so tenaciously adhere to the inner membrane as to be separated with difficulty; when separated, the surface was found to be perfectly smooth and natural.” A second preparation, in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, shows the result of a ligature applied to the jugular vein of a horse for twenty-four hours. The inner vein-wall, thrown into longitudinal folds, is otherwise natural in appearance, whilst a good deal of lymph is accumulated externally around the ligature. The third, also in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, shows the effects of a ligature including part of the parietes of the jugular vein of a horse. Some fibrin is deposited in the track of the thread and in a small pouch below, but no evidence exists of any inflammation of the lining membrane, and this three days after the application of the ligature.2 The results of tying the internal jugular vein in man, which were observed by Guthrie and Langen- ' S. W. Gross, American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1867, pp. 320, 321. * Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. iii., p. 357.