488 ANEURISM. aside with the finger; no dissection, such as is prescribed in works on operative surgery, ought to be practised, for it is that which renders the operation diffi- cult, causing hemorrhage, filling the cup-like wound with blood, and obscur- ing the further steps. The operator, placing his fore-finger in the inner angle of the wound, feels the softer, yielding structures of the side of the neck; further inward, the hard, firm line of the spinal transverse processes covered by the scalenus anticus ; and, running outward from the edge of this muscle, the ridges of the brachial nerves, and perhaps the omo-hyoid; still letting his finger course downward along the outer border of the scalenus anticus, he will find its progress stopped by the first rib ; when he comes to this point, the artery will be felt beating just behind his finger. If now' the head be turned to the opposite shoulder, and the arm of the side under ope- ration be drawn down, the fascia of these parts is rendered tense enough to be easily torn, and with the finger nail, guided by a good sense of touch, the upper and lower margin of the vessel may be cleared. If there he any diffi- culty, a piece of the fascia may he pinched up in forceps, the absence in it of any vein carefully verified, and a very small rift in it made—from which the tear may be extended with the finghr. How unless the shoulder be raised by the aneurism, this operation may be performed in a few minutes with the utmost ease; but if that part is pushed upward, very considerable difficulty is produced, for this position may be so embarrassing that the surgeon can hardly orient himself.1 Furthermore, the clavicle so covers the artery that, even though the aneurism needle may pass beneath the vessel, its handle cannot be depressed; the eye will not go far enough to let the ligature be seized. It is for this object that I devised the needle with the tumhler-end, depicted at p. 476. Unfortunately, I have had no case requiring its use since then; but I have often tried it on the dead subject, while an assistant kept the shoulder well raised, and have found it to answer all expectations. The above operation is not applicable to subclavio-axillary aneurism, but in such cases the second part of the subclavian artery is rarely diseased. This fact appears to me to have been somewhat neglected by operators; for in such an event, rather than tie a dilated artery, it will be better to take up the vessel a little further inward, namely, where it lies between the scaleni. Another circumstance which may render this operation preferable to the one just described, may be such a lifting of the clavicle that the third portion of the vessel is inaccessible. The artery lies highest while between the muscles ; and the clavicle, raised by an axillary tumor, is less elevated at its proximal part. Ligation of Second Portion of Subclavian Artery.—To place a ligature on this part of the vessel, a slight modification of the procedure already described is necessary. The skin incision must extend a little more inwards, and the ex- ternal jugular vein, unless it lie unusually far out, should be tied and divided ; the outer fibres of the sterno-mastoid, together with the strong fascia behind it, must be severed. The loose areolar structure overlying the anterior scalene muscle is easily disposed of, and the phrenic nerve as it crosses that muscle very obliquely, must be brought into view. The artery, emerging from between the two scaleni, is now seen; between it and the anterior muscle a curved di- rector is to be passed, and the outer fibres of the latter divided, when the safety of the vessel itself and of its branches has been verified,2 and when the 1 In a case of this sort, on which I operated, my finger sank almost its full length directly downward. I had to verify its position once or twice, the great depth haunting me with a fear that my finger had entered the chest. 2 Usually, the only branch given off from this portion of the artery is the superior inter-costal, which is not in the way; but the supra-scapular branch from the thyroid axis is often low enough to be endangered, unless its absence from in front of the part to be incised has been ascertained.