560 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. a limb of which the vascular and nervous equilibrium has been suddenly modified. In cases of complete division of the nerve, besides the position to be given to the limb, the uniting of the ends of the nerve by means of a suture must be considered. This operation is to be described in a special section, and it will be sufficient to say here, that most surgeons of the present day admit that it is of itself a harmless operation, and one which should always be resorted to when it is possible. In cases of great contusion of the extremi- ties of the nerves, some surgeons still advise the suture after resection of the disorganized portions of the nerve-trunks ; Tripier, however, rejects this pro- cedure as absolutely useless and dangerous. Finally, in cases where a foreign body is imbedded in the substance of the nerve, or is in contact with its divided ends, the first indication is evidently to remove it as quickly as possible. In regard to after treatment, it is advised, in cases of prolonged anaesthesia, to employ electrization of the skin without moisture, by means of a strong current applied with a metallic brush, or frictions with warm oil of turpen- tine, which are at times very painful. In case of neuralgic pain, after having ascertained that it is not caused by the presence of a foreign body, antiphlo- gistics, resolvents, and if there is neuritis, sedatives are indicated, and particu- larly water-dressing and blisters for causalgia; the treatment by opiates is appropriate if there is sclerosis, and, as a last resort, neurotomy, which, how- ever, should only be employed after medical treatment has failed. Tripier prefers to operate by open incision, and simply divides the nerve; relapses in his opinion depending less upon early cicatrization of the nerve, than upon the persistence of other ways of transmission. But most surgeons advise resection of one or two centimetres [half an inch or an inch] of the nerve. Malgaigne, moreover, advised, in order to avoid any possibility of reunion, that both ends of the nerve should be folded back in loops, and that the lower end should be cauterized, or that a flap of tissue should be interposed between the cut extremities; even these precautions, however, do not always insure against relapses. The treatment of the motor disturbances consists especially in electrization by induced currents, in order to prevent muscular atrophy and loss of contrac- tility; electrical needles also may be employed. Methodical electrization may, as we have seen, even re-establish muscular contractility some time after it has disappeared. According to some authors, it is proper to wait until the nerve is repaired before applying interrupted or continued, and especially descending, currents. In cases of muscular contraction, resort is had to prothetic apparatus, to forced straightening, to tenotomy, and particularly to baths, douches, and kneadings (massage). When both ends of the nerve are separatedly cicatrized, it is a question whether they should be sought for and united by suture, or whether the peri- pheral end of the divided nerve might not be united to a neighboring nerve which has not been injured. It is to experimental physiology and clinical observation that we must look for a solution of this question, which at pre- sent cannot be answered. Foreign Bodies in Herve-Wounds.—To what has already been said con- cerning the presence of foreign bodies in wounds of nerves, it may be added that every foreign body gives rise to local irritation, and sometimes to un- bearable pain and to severe accidents. The oft-quoted case of Dupuytren’s may be cited, in which the patient died from tetanus, the end of a whip-lash being found at the autopsy imbedded in the ulnar nerve. Descot has pub-