436 ANEURISM. wound, and of slow erosion of the remaining coat. In this somewhat bold proposition, though it found, as we shall shortly see, imitators, the surgical world did not follow him; but the ligation of arteries was much simplified, no other substance, either foreign or natural, in the immediate neighborhood of the vessel, being included in the noose. The almost universal practice was to tie the vessel tightly, and leave one end of the ligature hanging out of the wound. The inconvenience of this foreign substance, acting like a little seton, was felt. Sir Astley Cooper tried a ligature of catgut, in hopes that it might be dissolved or incorporated with the living tissues; his first ease succeeded, the wound healed, and nothing more was seen of the ligature; but his second case proved disastrous, and he reverted to the use of the hempen or silk cord.1 Having now brought the history of tying arteries down to a recent period, we will leave retrospect, and consider the effects of an Hunterian deligation upon the aneurism, upon the vessel, and upon its branches. We have seen that if an artery is occluded by the ligature immediately above the sac of an aneurism, all blood is cut oft' from entering the cavity save a slight and very uncertain recurrent eddy; but that when a considerable branch, or several smaller branches, spring from the obstructed vessel between the ligature and the sac, a very different state of things obtains. Let us take a very simple instance: a popliteal aneurism for which the superficial femoral artery has been tied a little below the origin of the profunda. At the moment of drawing the noose tight, the aneurism ceases to pulsate, be- coming generally rather smaller and softer; the next effect of cutting off so large an effluent from the parent stem (common femoral), is that more of its current must be thrown on the other channels, especially on the profunda with its circumflex and other branches. Tbe anastomotic channels between these offsets and the derivatives of the superficial femoral below the ligature, permit a certain and a gradually increasing quantity of blood to find its way into that vessel between the ligature and the tumor, and thus a gentle cur- rent through the aneurism is soon established, that is to say, the very condi- tion which is most conducive to the steady and gradual deposit of active clot is brought about. By the time that the sac has become filled by this mate- rial, the anastomoses in the side channels have so enlarged that blood is carried freely along them to the leg below ; even the diminished stream in the tied artery is no longer necessary in maintaining the circulation; and the artery very often becomes occluded by eoagulum from the ligature to the aneurism, and beyond it, to the first large branch below, while in other cases a certain portion of that length remains pervious. After a little time the aneu- rism and the obliterated vessel undergo a process of contraction and absorp- tion, so that they come to resemble a solid cord with a knot on it; and, after a still longer interval, very little or no trace is left of the disease. In the mean time, if a silk or hemp ligature has been employed, the outer coat— the only one really included, since the othei’s have been ruptured and have retracted—must undergo a process of ulceration and division, so as to release the loop of the ligature; the first event is cell proliferation around it— nature’s attempt to encapsulate the foreign body. The thickening thus caused, under the continued irritation, soon breaks down into pus, which collects around the artery and in its sheath, and, tracking along the course of the ligature, flows from the sinus-like wound. At first this pus is laud- able, but usually, after about ten days, it gets a little stained from admixture of blood; then, in from twelve to twenty days, the continuity of the vessel 1 Whether Antyllus used some sort of intestine, or another animal substance, is, as we have seen, doubtful, p. 432.