419 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. Of this, from ten to fifteen minims may be injected in close proximity to, but not into, the sac. The third class of methods, viz., those which mitigate or suppress circulation through the affected vessel, are by far the most important, since they are the most successful. Manipulation.—The procedure first devised, practised, and named by Sir William Fergusson “manipulation,” rests upon the spontaneous cure by dis- placement and impaction of clot—a mode which has been shown (p 405) now and then to occur. Sir William, in two well-known cases1 of subclavian aneurism, displaced by external pressure with his thumb a certain quantity of the clot which lined the aneurisms. In the one case, pulsation in the vessels below ceased, but only for a few hours; after two attempts the tumor was unaffected, and eight months after it burst. In the other there was no change. A year afterwards direct pressure appeared equally unavailing; the man went to sea, and in yet another year came back with the aneurism sob idified. How, since displacement and impaction of clot, whether fortuitous or induced by art, must needs be a rapid, almost a sudden event, we cannot possibly ascribe the cure, verified two yeai’s after, to the manipulation, nor, indeed, to the pressure. The most important point in both these cases is, that the patients suffered certain severe, even dangerous nerve-symptoms— the former merely temporary confusion and giddiness, the latter hemiplegia; the clot had gone the wrong way, and too far, namely, up the carotid. So, also, we find two cases in which the examination for diagnostic purposes of carotid aneurism produced paralysis and death.2 On the other hand, three cases recorded by Mr. Teale, Dr. Blackman (femoral aneurism), and Mr. Little, of Donegal (right subclavian aneurism), were successful; but in the first two, pressure having been likewise employed, the share which manipulation may have had in the cure is doubtful. Mr. Little employed no other treatment; no cerebral symptoms supervened. On the third day the vessels beyond pulsated more feebly; on the tenth, not at all. The tumor gradually solidified and ceased to throb. On this one fortunate and in no way ambiguous case we must avoid building too large a superstructure. The mode of operating is, first, by gentle but continued pressure to empty the sac of its fluid contents, and then, with a brisk movement, to rub the two sides of the aneurism sufficiently forcibly together (Mr. Teale kneaded the femoral aneurism a good deal); and it is well to endeavor to direct any laminae which may be detached towards the distal mouth of the tumor, if it be of the fusiform variety and have two mouths. After this has been done, the result is mere chance. It may be for good, if the loosened clot be of just the size and form to block the mouth of the sac, or if, as I suspect in Little’s case, it be only semi-detached, and gradually attract more fibrin. Sometimes, as in Fergusson’s case, a promise of benefit may entirely disappear in a few hours. For aneurism about the limbs, any one of the methods about to be described would be preferable, as more reliable and less likely to prove injurious. For aneurisms of the carotid no such method should be tried. There is, too, in both right and left subclavian aneurism, undoubted danger of cerebral embolus by way of the vertebrals, and in the former case by the carotid also, since a back flow of the stream probably takes place while manipulation is going on. In certain inguinal aneurisms, other means being almost precluded, the procedure may be attempted. 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xl. 2 Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xi. ; Medical Times and Gazette, 1859, vol. i.