448 ANEURISM. on the ninth day there was hemorrhage from the wound, and the vessel was tied above and below ; in a week, bleeding recurred, and was found to come from the profunda; this vessel was ligatured with the same result; the common femoral, the external iliac, and the common iliac, were then tied, one after the other, each time for reiterated bleeding. Then an unnamed, enlarged branch, overlying the common iliac, and after- wards the obturator and epigastric arteries, were tied. The man succumbed to repeated hemorrhages.1 Hence it is prudent, if, after tying in the wound has failed, deligation above he employed, to avoid going so high as to deprive the patient of the last life-saving chance—amputation. If the third deligation high up in the limb fail, it appears useless to go higher—into the trunk, for instance. If that be done, life literally harigs on a single thread. To sum up, amputation is, when situation permits, sometimes the wisest and the safest course, especially in the lower limb; as when, after the pri- mary deligation, the parts below have been long in recovering circulation, or have barely recovered it at all; when, in the course of that procedure, the vessel has been found diseased; when the deligation, though producing hemorrhage, has not cured the aneurism; or when, after apparent cure, signs of inflammation or suppuration of the sac have set in. When deligation at the wound has proved futile, and the, patient has lost much blood, tying further up is rarely useful. Still less Avhen a higher liga- ture has failed should it be repeated; and most certainly not if the third ligature must be in a place that would preclude amputation. Amputation for secondary hemorrhage is rarely necessary in the upper limb, since the vessel—or, if necessary, more than one vessel—may be tied with little risk of gangrene. In the lower limb, the ligature placed on the vessel above is frequently followed by gangrene. Since that result would necessitate amputation, the surgeon may resort ah initio to this operation with the less compunction after all reasonable means, that is, all that do not evoke more dangerous complications, have been tried. Suppuration of the aneurismal sac after a lengthy interval—about or over two months after treatment by pressure or ligature—is not usually accom- panied or followed by hemorrhage. It is very rarely thus complicated if, among the local symptoms, pulsation be not included. When, on the con- trary, the phenomena about to be described present themselves within two months of such treatment, which may have been apparently quite successful, bleeding generally ensues, especially if pulsation has returned. The symptoms are very similar to those of an ordinary acute abscess. The patient, up to this time progressing favorably, experiences malaise, perhaps has one or more rigors, and is restless and feverish, with a temperature of from 100° to 102° Fahrenheit, or even higher. The tumor, which was getting smaller at first, ceases to decrease, and after a little while becomes markedly larger. It is painful, often intensely so, and usually hot; in a little time it fluctuates, or at least the surrounding tissues do so, and the skin becomes of a dusky red. The addition of pulsation is a grave compli- cation. If the swelling hurst or be incised, discolored pus, often fetid, and after a time coffee-colored or plum-colored, is evacuated; deep purple and grayish detritus follows. Sometimes immediately after, a few drops, or perhaps a stream, of bright arterial blood issues from the wound; in other cases this flow is delayed for a few hours, or even for a few days; in some cases, especially in those in which the suppuration has been long delayed, hemorrhage may not occur at all, hut it is to be dreaded as long as the wound discharges grumous matter, or has not become filled by healthy granulations. Philadelphia Medical Times, Nov. 10, 1877, p. 56.