680 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. member, and making extension in a straight position. Some cases are readily- reduced by this simple means. Failing in this, extension may be tried in the flexed position, and by the aid of to and fro movements or rocking of the joint. A band may be attached to the member by a clove-hitch if more force is desired, and any amount of additional power of traction thus obtained. After the tissues have been somewhat stretched, the effort may again be made to push the two bones into apposition. For this, the right-angled position is the most favorable, as it prevents, to some extent, the locking of the bones upon each other. If this fail, the opposite manoeuvre of forcibly straightening the phalanx may be resorted to; or strong backward flexion even may be attempted, in which position traction in a reversed direction may be applied, the thumb or finger being at the same time brought slowly around to a straight position. When all other methods fail, subcutaneous division of the lateral ligament upon one or both sides, with perhaps section of the flexor brevis pollicis under antiseptic precautions, is justifiable, and rather than leave the defor- mity, the surgeon should adopt this operation, which is warranted by both reason and experience. Dislocations of the Hip. The opinions and practice of surgeons in respect to dislocations of the hip have undergone great changes during the past few years, in consequence of investigations connected with the subject of reduction by manipulation. These investigations have been carried on chiefly by Professor Henry J. Bige- low, of Boston, who has courteously allowed the use of several illustrations from his excellent monograph on the subject.1 It will not be possible, in the space assigned to the subject in this work, to give an elaborate discussion of the various conflicting opinions which in times past have been put forth by eminent writers; but it is safe to assert that, at the present time, the highest authorities in the profession are agreed, in the main, as to the truth of the statements which are about to be made. Anatomy of the Hip-joint.—There are two principal agents whose action confers upon a dislocated hip-joint the characteristic features by which the accident is recognized, and which also constitute the chief obstacles to reduc- tion. These agents are, first, the untorn portion of the capsular ligament, and, secondly, the obturator internus muscle and tendon. The other muscles surrounding the hip have a certain influence, but experiments show that when they all are cut away, with the exception of the obturator internus, the characteristic features of the dislocation still remain, and the difficulties of reduction are not removed. The capsular ligament—arising from the circumference of the acetabulum and parts adjacent—is inserted near the junction of the neck of the femur with the trochanter. It is, therefore, a tubular structure, complete in its entire circumference, but very much thicker at certain exposed points than at others. As the most frequent tendency to dislocation would naturally be upward, the superior part of this fibrous tube is always thicker and stronger than the part below. Other parts are also greatly thickened for certain purposes of security. From the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the bone below as far as the border of the acetabulum, arises a mass of ligamentous 1 The Mechanism of Dislocation and Fracture of the Hip, etc. Philadelphia, 1869.