€20 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. that they can be given in bed without too much disturbing the patient. Tepid baths seem more rational than cold baths and cold douches, from which good •effects have, however, sometimes been obtained ; both have the inconvenience of necessitating movements which are very painful and very unpleasant. Finally, it can be understood that the sulphate of quinine has been employed with success against the malarial forms. I shall say but one'word as to the treatment which aims only to directly stop the muscular contractions: it is a symptomatic medication, necessarily insufficient, and temporary in action. Thus act acupuncture, the different liniments which have been devised for the treatment of tetanus, the sulpho- •cyanide of potassium, and curara. In regard to the latter medicine, I may notice an interesting case by Hoffmann,1 in which the curara was adminis- tered by intra-venous injections, eight in number, each containing 17 milli- grammes (gr. f +) of the medicine. This case is not favorable for the treatment with curara, since the patient died from arrest of the heart’s action for which, perhaps, it was responsible; but the case is singular in the fact that, at the autopsy, there was found no vascular or circulatory lesion, not- withstanding the eight injections given in a few hours, which proves the harmlessness of intra-venous injections made with care. Conclusion.—To summarize: in the presence of a case of tetanus it is neces- sary to put the patient in the most favorable surroundings, and at once to administer chloral until resolution of the spasms is obtained; at the same time local treatment must be resorted to, that is to say, any cause of irritation which may exist in the wound must be removed, and if none can he found, or if this first interference is not sufficient, amputation, neurotomy, or nerve- elongation must be immediately decided upon. To this fundamental treat- ment may be joined some accessory means, such, for example, as the use of ■diaphoretics and belladonna. Thanks to this rational treatment, without hoping yet to triumph over the hyperacute forms, a certain number of acute and chronic cases of tetanus may be arrested and cured. Operations which are Practised upon" Nerves. Several operations are practised upon nerves. These are nerve-suture, nerve- elongation or nerve-stretching, simple division or neurotomy, and resection or neurectomy. It sometimes occurs that the nerves which are in the neighborhood of bones are found, after a fracture for example, inclosed in an osseous canal. This has been observed in the case of the radial -[museulo-spiral] nerve at the •surface of the humerus. In these cases an operation is performed to dislodge •the nerve with chisel and mallet. The same operation has been done to isolate the nerve from the lardaceous, fibrous tissue which sometimes surrounds and ensheaths it as a result of •chronic inflammation. The older surgeons practised cauterization of nerves, in cases of neuralgia, but this operation is at the present day abandoned. I. Suture of Nerves. History.—¥e may divide the history of the suture of nerves into three periods. The first, from the date of Hippocrates and Qalen to 1776, the time Berlin, klinisclie Wochenschrift, No. 43, 1879.