ELONGATION OR STRETCHING OF NERVES. 625 recovered its functions much more rapidly than the ulnar. In the other cases, the effect of the suture cannot be decided; some of the reports are absolutely wanting in details, and the others date the improvement from a period much too near the time of inserting the suture (from the second, from the fourth, and from the seventh day). The most important fact in all these cases is the complete absence of every kind of complication, even in the two cases of Letievant. This permits us to believe, notwithstanding the small number of known cases, that the gravity of this operation has been much exaggerated. [Additional cases of nerve-suture, mostly successful, have been recorded by various surgeons, including Braun, Langenbeck, Esmarch, Ogston, MacCor- mac, Holmes, Wheelhouse, Holden, Savory, Parks, and F. L. Parker.] Conclusion.—To summarize, the operation of nerve-suture seems to be indi- cated in all sections of nerves, though, in certain cases, position alone is, per- haps, sufficient to keep the divided ends in contact. The suture appears to favor and to hasten the process of cicatrization and regeneration of the nerve- trunks ; and the few cases which we possess permit us to believe that it does not expose the patient to accidents. There are cases reported of division of nerves, with or without loss of substance, which have not caused paralysis. Paulet has collected them in a memoir,1 without being able to give any satisfactory explanation of them, and other cases have been recorded since ; but these cases prove nothing contrary to the I’egeneration of nerve-tissue— they only show that this regeneration is not the only mechanism by which the function can be restored. Moreover, their rarity makes these cases a clinical curiosity ; the absence of re-establishment of the functions of a nerve, when its extremities have become separately cicatrized, remains the rule, and it is the duty of the surgeon, in dealing with a divided nerve, to insure, by every possible means, the approximation of the two ends, since this affords the least deceptive pledge of functional restoration. II. Elongation or Stretching of Herves. History.—Elongation of nerves was first studied from a purely speculative point of view by a certain number of physiologists and anatomists, among whom may be named Harless and Haber in 1858, Valentin in 1864, and Weir Mitchell in 1872, but it is since elongation has entered into therapeutics, that have been made the more numerous and more accurate experiments of Schleich, Tutschek, Conrad, Vogt, Trombetta, and Brown-Sequard. In 1860, during a resection of the elbow performed by Hussbaum, the hook held by an assistant very forcibly stretched the ulnar nerve, and the tetanic cramps which had existed in the arm disappeared after the operation, a result which was attributed by this surgeon to the accidental elongation. This idea was confirmed in Vussbaum’s mind by a case under the care of Billroth, who, attending in 1869 a patient attacked with epileptiform paroxysms following a violent contusion of the buttock, believed that the nerve was irritated by a splinter of bone, and denuded the nerve without find- ing anything. The stretching which the nerve had undergone during the operation was sufficient, however, to cause recovery. Accordingly, in 1872, Vussbaum decided to practise the first intentional elongation, for a contrac- tion of the upper extremity consecutive to a contusion; the contraction yielded to the operation. Gartner and Vogt imitated his practice the same year, and the operation was soon introduced into England by Callender, and 1 Paulet, SociStS de Chirurgie, 18(58 ; M. See, Soci§t6 de Chirurgie, 1881. vol. hi.—40