42 INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. This swelling goes on until the cell has reached a comparatively enormous size, when the substance proper seems to melt away as a fluid, thus freeing its nucleus (or nuclei), which now becomes the actual cancer cell. . . . The nucleus of the wandering (or lymph) cell, now itself become the cancer cell, may increase in size to above 200 times the size of the original cell.” Gussenbauer, in an elaborate paper on the development of secondary tumors of the lymphatic glands,1 is much of the opinion of Creighton and Hoggan, though modified. Histologically, his observations are evidently in favor of the theory that the tissues of the lymphatic glands are transformed, by infection, into a structure resembling that of the primary tumor. He mainly agrees with Hoggan, that the linear cords of new growths are not due to plugging of the lymphatic vessels by cells detached from the primary tumor, but to proliferation and transformation of the epithelium all along the lymphatic vessels by continuous extension of infection. He does not find that the afferent vessels or the peripheral lymph sinuses are occupied with transported cells or beginnings of new growths ; but in the follicular tissue he describes a kind of corpuscular element, fertilizing germs (befruchtende Keime). They are carried by the lymphatics from the primary tumor, and infect constituent elements of the gland in such a way that they become transformed into the likeness of tumor cells. This is more particularly observed in the case of melanosis. As a complex transformation of lymphatic gland forms, in the case of pri- mary colloid of the rectum, Gussenbauer describes the change into spaces lined with epithelial cells containing colloid material. The epithelially-lined spaces are traced back through several stages, and ultimately identified as blood- vascular channels, whose epithelial, muscular, and other elements have taken on active proliferation, and ultimately the distinctive form and arrangement of the cells lining a glandular tube. Particular attention is called to the fact of the participation of the various coats of the bloodvessels in the formation of the secondary new growths. Clinically, as to the detection of non-infiltrated, infiltrating, or infiltrated glands, there is obviously great difficulty in the early stages of the disease. We know well that in the normal condition, glands vary much in size in the quite healthy individual, and the advice of the surgeon, in cases of cancer, is rarely sought until the affection has made headway. If we take, for in- stance, the breast, whence most of the clinical investigations have been made, we find that almost invariably, at the time of examination, the glands are involved—an aid to diagnosis, truly, but greatly against our success in ope- ration. The great clinical question to be answered is, “ When do the glands become affected?” and any statements as to the rate of infection would be of the greatest clinical value. Any enlarged lymphatic gland in the neigh- borhood of a cancer must be regarded with suspicion, and treated accord- ingly ; hence the necessity of emptying the axilla of its glands in excisions of the breast. To briefly summarize what has been said, we may, from what we know at present, assert that, as far as the infection of the lymphatic system is concerned, syphilis is a virus, possibly a “ contagium vivum,” invading the lymphatics; and that cancer is a dyscrasia (perhaps hereditary), which by means of the connective tissue involves a part or parts of the entire system. The term epitheliosis, as suggested by Bradley, seems to be a generalization of con- venience. The question of visceral cancer and its relation to the lymphatic system will be found treated of elsewhere; those points which are of special interest to the surgeon have been alluded to in the present article. 1 Zeitschrift f. Heilkunde, Marz, 1881. Ueber die Entwickelung d. sec. Lymphdriisengeschwulste.