114 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. cavity with his hand introduced into the rectum, as practised by Sands in analogous cases.1 But, before doing even this, he should try the effect of compressing the common iliac artery, on the same side as the wound, with his lingers, firmly, against the last lumbar vertebra or the brim of the pelvis. If in this way the bleeding were controlled, as in most cases it probably would be, as indicated by diminished tension and swelling, with disap- pearance of pulsation in the tumor, he should direct the compression to be continued digitally, or by a suitable tourniquet, or by Esmarch’s elastic bandage, applied in some of the ways already described, until the blood had coagulated in the tumor itself and in the canal of the wounded artery. He should most earnestly strive to obliterate the wounded artery by compressing the common iliac, or, if that were impracticable, by compressing the adjoin- ing aorta; for he could not ligate the bleeding artery in the external wound ; it would not be justifiable to reach it by opening the belly as in ovariotomy; and the operation of tying the common iliac, on the plan of Hunter, would be far too serious and uncertain of result to be resorted to at the outset. Again, the arteries are sometimes pierced from within the body by sharp fragments of bones that have been broken by the impact of gunshot projec- tiles, as happened in the following instance A soldier2 was admitted to hospital September 20, 1864, with a gunshot wound of the right side of his neck, received on the previous day. He was very weak from hemorrhage from the wound and from haemoptysis. Notwithstanding plugging of the wound, etc., the hemorrhage and the haemoptysis continued, and on October 5, death resulted. Necroscopy. A conoidal musket-ball had entered the right inferior triangle of the neck, fracturing obliquely the first rib tft its middle, and depressing the sternal portion thereof into the apex of the right lung ; the other fragment stuck upward with a sharp-pointed end, which perforated the subclavian artery in the second part of its course. The missile emerged from the back above the spine of the scapula. The mediastinum and the right pleural cavity were filled with extravasated blood. The rio-ht intercostal spaces bulged outward. The heart was pushed toward the left. The ri"ht luno- was collapsed. There were marks of periostitis on both portions of the rib. The appearance of the artery, well represented in Fig. 416, indicated that the lacera- tion of its walls had occurred either at the time of impact of the missile, or from some sudden movement of the shoulder, rather than from gradual attrition. The broken rib is drawn half size in the accompanying illustration (Fig. 417). Fig. 416. Fig. 417. Perforation of the right subclavian artery by a sharp fragment of the adjoining first rib, fractured by gun- shot. (Spec. 3377, sect. 1, A. M. M.) First rib fractured obliquely by gunshot; a fragment perforated the right subclavian artery. (Spec. 3376, sect. 1, A. M.M.) • American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1881, pp. 366-373. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 521.