INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 70 compressed in a similar way against the brim of the pelvis. But the latter can be compressed more readily and for a longer time against the upper border of the horizontal ramus of the pubis, just previous to its exit from the pelvis, above the middle of Poupart’s ligament. The femoral artery can easily be compressed against the ilio-pectineal emi- nence, just below Poupart’s ligament. It is found in the middle of a line drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the sym- physis pubis. When the current through this artery is to be restrained, the thumb may be placed upon the vessel at this spot, while the fingers grasp the outer part of the thigh; but when the pressure is to be applied lower down, both hands must be used, one thumb being placed upon the other, with the fingers embracing opposite sides of the limb (Fig. 345). In this way the femoral artery may be compressed against the femur as far down as the lower third of the thigh; but, low down, digital compression is difficult and uncertain, because of the thickness of the parts lying over the vessel, at least in fleshy subjects. Pads, Tampons, or Compresses, are often applied to wounds with advantage for the suppression of surgical hemorrhages, until such time as ligatures can be applied. In case of their employment the pressure is exerted by means of a bandage. But before a compress is applied in this way, the injured part, if it be an extremity, must be carefully bandaged (with flannel if pos- sible, for it is the best material for the purpose) from below upward until the whole limb is covered, in order to prevent the occurrence of diffuse infiltra- tion of the connective tissue with blood, or sanguineous infiltration of the limb—a very dangerous complication. A firm pad, made if possible of anti- septic material, is then placed upon the wound, and firmly pressed upon it by a tightly-drawn bandage. This part of the proceeding is best accom- plished with a bandage made from some elastic material; for instance, India- rubber or elastic braces. But if a large artery is opened, it is safer to apply a conical tampon in the wound itself. For this purpose a square piece of antiseptic gauze, or of muslin soaked in carbolated oil, is pressed with a finger as deeply as possible into the wound, and then the cavity is filled, as, the finger is withdrawn, first with small, then with larger antiseptic balls of prepared jute or wadding, until the last overlaps the margin of the wound. (Fig. 346.) The wads Fig. 346. Application of a conical tampon made of antiseptic balls. (Esmarch.) should be quickly and firmly put into place. The whole is kept in position by a tightly-drawn bandage; if possible, by an elastic one. On the arrival of the patient at the hospital, or at his home, the tampon must be removed; and if the hemorrhage return, or if the coats of the artery be perceptibly in- jured, a ligature must be applied to it, on each side of the wound, where its coats are sound. Graduated compresses that are pyramidal, wedge-like, or elongated in shape, are not unfrequently applied also by means of tightly-drawn bandages to tem-