ADENITIS. 33 Adenitis. (Synonym: Lymphadenitis.) After considering the inflammatory processes connected with the lymph- atics themselves, we naturally pass on to a consideration of the inflammatory conditions of the lymphatic glands. Though they may be independently affected, they are, as a fact, most generally involved together with the vessels. Any irritation may produce a simple adenitis; given a slight contusion of the gland itself, or of a finger or toe, or a pricked finger, not necessarily with a dirty instrument, and inflamed axillary glands may be the result, and, according to the severity of the local inflammation, so will be the pyrexia.1 In all cases where adenitis occurs, there is a tendency to suppuration. If we examine any gland in which there is threatened suppuration, we may detect either a softening immediately superficial to the gland, or a general softening of the gland itself, indicating the usual condition of central suppuration. The whole reticular structure of the gland becomes choked with pus; and the circulation within it becomes stopped. Hence we may see a mechanical process whereby a gland in such a condition, or one which may have been so affected, may itself become a barrier against the further passage of septic or malignant material. The implication of a series or mass of glands will necessarily induce an cedema of the parts beyond, which may be either transient or permanent. Thus we frequently meet with cedema of the lower limb after adenitis of the glands of the groin, and even if suppuration has not occurred, glands may become permanently enlarged, and their condition, according to the state of the individual’s health, induce a form of chronic oedema of the leg or thigh. Such a case has been recently under my obser- vation, where syphilitic bubo, contracted many years previously, left the glands in the groin in this condition, and the parts became liable to chronic enlargement, and the limb to oedema. Symptoms.—Whether the adenitis be simple or the result of septic mate- rial absorbed, the symptoms are much the same, differing only in degree. In the acute stage there are swelling and tenderness, and lancinating pain aggra- vated by any movement, accompanied by pyrexia, which is more severe, per- haps, in proportion to the nature of the material absorbed, and, as before stated, of the “ soil” in which it is absorbed. The cellular tissue external to the affected glands becomes involved, and the integument over it glazed and red. Reso- lution may occur, but almost invariably suppuration follows these conditions. The abscess bursts, or is opened by the knife, and in most cases a cure is effected ; but occasionally the suppuration is chronic, and sinuses form, bur- rowing amongst neighboring glands and the cellular tissue, excessively diffi- cult to heal, and often showing no tendency to do so. The clinical condition of syphilitic bubo has been already discussed in the article on syphilis (Yol. H. p. 447). Treatment.—In simple adenitis, the first point is to secure absolute rest, with leeches to the inflamed region, if necessary, warm fomentations or poul- tices, and, if suppuration occurs, free incision. Some speak highly of the 1 Lymphadenitis is the most regular attendant on inflammatory processes of all kinds ; this is dependent on the “retentive” function of the glands themselves. In the central reticulum of lymph glands, the material portions of the lymph are, as it were, arrested, brought thither by the affected vessels, and may be either innocent or of pathological import. Tlius the materials used in tattooing the arm have been observed in the central reticulum of an axillary gland. (Virchow.) Hence it can be readily understood how pus corpuscles or bacteria can be arrested in the gland substance. A stasis naturally occurs, and coagulation of the lymph ; and the character- istic hardness dependent thereon commences. VOL. III.—3