165 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OP ARTERIES. in which either ligation or compression was resorted to. No mention, how- ever, is made therein of those instances of this accident, although they are quite numerous, which have been treated by amputation of the thigh, or have been allowed to run their course without surgical interference, and which have terminated fatally by hemorrhage or by gangrene. The following is a brief summary of the tabulated cases d— Cures. Deaths. Ligature of the femoral artery has furnished .... 5 1 Ligature of the tibial above the tumor 3 2 Ligature of tlie peroneal ........ 2 — Compression applied in the wound ...... — 2 Compression applied to the main artery above .... 3 — Add the cases of Yerneuil and Yalette 3 — 16 5 To these, Azam’s case, related above, in which a cure was obtained by compressing the femoral artery at the pubis, is to be added, which gives in all seven examples of this formidable lesion that have been cured by indirect compression, without any accident, and without any failure. Ligature of the femoral artery at or above the middle of the thigh has furnished fi ve recoveries, and one death. The most dangerous plans of treatment are, beyond doubt, compression applied in the wound, and ligature of the injured artery imme- diately above the tumor; and, therefore, these should generally be considered as inapplicable to, and not permissible for, this lesion. Appreciation of Methods.—There are four distinct surgical procedures which may at times be required in treating the lacerations of arteries which are caused by fractures of the leg. (1) Indirect compression, that is, com- pression of the parent vessel, or arterial trunk, on the cardiac side of the lace- ration, at some considerable distance from it. (2) Ligature of the lacerated artery itself, on each side of the laceration. (3) Ligature of the superficial femoral artery, at or above the middle of the thigh. (4) Amputation. (1) Compression of the femoral artery at the pubis, from its innocuousness, and the remarkable success which has attended its use, is far preferable to every other plan of treatment; and the surgeon should always make faithful trial of it, when practicable, before proceeding to operate with the knife. It is always advisable to make digital compression in such cases, if possible; but this plan of treatment requires the co-operation of at least several intelli- gent assistants; these are not always at hand, and in the country especially the surgeon may ofttimes be unable to find them. He should then, if he can, resort to the use of instruments for compressing the femoral artery, such as I have already described on pages 71 et seq. But, after all, there will be cases in which, either from want of the means to make compression, or from failure •of the compression itself, recourse must he had to other procedures. (2) The “ old operation,” that is, the ligation of the torn artery 'itself in the wound, above and below the rent in its tunic, although J. L. Petit performed it with success, is not admissible in cases of simple fracture, because it would convert them into compound fractures. There is no pretext under which a surgeon can justify himself in voluntarily converting a subcutaneous into an open fracture. But in cases where the fracture is already compound, and the hemorrhage is external, when compression of the femoral artery at the pubis is impracticable or ineffectual, it is often, perhaps generally, advisable to lay open the swelling, by enlarging the original wound, if necessary, in order to 1 There are also a good many instances of this accident on record in which the ‘ ‘ old operation’ ’ was performed, or recovery spontaneously occurred, that are not mentioned or embraced in Poncet’s table.