SURGICAL DISEASES OP THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 344 Age. Cases of Visceral Syphilis observed in Post-mortem Room op St. Thomas’s Hospital during the Years 1875-6: Organs affected by Cause of | syphilis and nature death, i of affection. Peritonitis following colotomy for relief of syphilitic stricture of rectum. Acute pneu- monia se- condary to renal dis- ease. Slight phthisis ; pleurisy and pneu- monia ; thrombosis of pulmon- ary artery. Broncho- pneumonia. Thrombosis of cerebral arteries. Meningitis and gum- mata in brain. Thrombosis of cerebral arteries. Rectum, extensive ul- ceration aud thick- ening. Liver, some Lardace- ous degenera- tion. None of liver or spleen ; adv’d in kidneys, ntestines lot noted Advanced lardace- ous de- genera- Ulceration of rectum and vagina; small gummatous tumor in corpus striatum Extensive disease of Very ' palate, necrosis of slight of cricoid cartilage kidneys and nearly all the only, rings of trachea; perihepatitis. Extensive necrosis of None of nasal and upper jaw bones ; gummata in liver, spleen, and kidneys ; thickeu- ing of middle cere- bral artery. Osteo-sclerosis of skull, gummata in dura mater, gumma in brain ; disease of cerebral arteries. Cicatrices in liver ; disease of cerebral arteries. Gumma in wall of heart; gummata and cicatrices in liver; gummata in spleen. Very extensive dis- ease of liver peri, hepatitis, cicatrioes and gummata larynx, necrosis of cricoid bones , pe- culiar affection of ends of long bones. Secondary ulceration of tonsils and fau- ces ; minute gum- mata in dura mater Slight atheroma of aorta and of cerebral arteries. Skin. Remarks. Rupial eruption and scars of same. Gummata and in- farcts from arte- rial ob- struction. Conges t- None of kidneys. Ulceration of fauces, tonsils, pharyux, larynx and trachea,; necrosis of cricoid and part of thyroid cartilages. A.theromaof ta; cere- bral artery vith syphi- litic thick- ening. “ Slight atheroma at origin of aorta, none elsewhere; cerebral. Atheroma of aorta with very prominent patches ; middle cerebral ? nature of affection). Not noted. Disease of cerebral arteries. Atheroma of aorta ; external atheroma of cerebral vessels. Nothing to be dis- covered m careful examina- tion. Path. Trans., vol.xxvii. p. 311. Case 1 of disease of cerebral arteries, gummata in brain and dura mater shown. Mitral and tri- cuspid stenosis, see Path. Trans., vol.xxvii.