314 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. the skin and subcutaneous adipose tissue (Fig. 496). It will run parallel with the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle, which should be separated, and a finger introduced, in order to find the artery by its pulsations. Then sepa- rate the pyriformis and gluteus medius muscles, between which it lies, and the borders of which cover it. Isolate the artery from its venae comites, and pass the ligature around it, taking care not to include the gluteal nerve. The gluteal artery was tied in 1808 by Bell, and in 1833 by R. Carmichael; since that time the procedure has been repeated by several others, and may now be considered an established operation. Ligation of the Ischiatic Artery (Fig. 497).—Surgical Anatomy.—The ischiatic artery escapes from the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and descends in the interval between the trochanter major and the tuberosity of the ischium. It is separated from the gluteal artery by the pyriformis muscle, and is covered by the gluteus maximus. It is accompanied by the ischiatic nerves, and by a vein which lies at its posterior and inner side. Operation.—The centre of a line drawn from the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium, indicates the point where the artery passes out from the pelvic cavity. Place the patient upon his belly. Make a longitudinal incision two inches long, the centre of which corresponds to the point of emergence of the artery, as just described. Divide successively the skin, the cellulo-adipose tissue, and the fibres of the gluteus maximus muscle. The artery is to be found on the inner side of the nerves, and must be carefully separated from the vein. The position of the artery is to be ascertained by inserting a finger into the wound and feeling its pulsations. Ligation of the Internal Pudic Artery (Fig. 498).—Surgical Anatomy.— The internal pudic artery is the smaller of the two Fig. 498. terminal branches of the anterior trunk of the in- ternal iliac. It descends in front of the ischiatic artery to the lower border of the great sacro-ischia- tic foramen. It emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, below the pyri- formis muscle, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen; it then crosses the internal obturator muscle to the ramus of the ischium, being situated about an inch from the margin of the tuberosity, and bound down by the obturator fascia; it next ascends the ramus of the ischium, enters between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, and rises along the ramus of the os pubis. At the sym- physis it pierces the anterior layer of the deep perineal fascia; and, very much lessened in size, it reaches the dorsum of the penis, along which it runs to supply that organ, under the name of the arteria dorsalis penis. Ligation of the internal pudic artery.