ANEURISM. 454 well filled. The injection has been relatively more successful than the liga- ture ; but some of the failures of the latter occurred at a time when the ele- ments of safety in such operations were but ill understood. My personal predilection would be, after sufficient trial of pressure, to tie the artery above and below; if after a week pulsation continued, to use cautiously an injection of the weaker formula given on p. 413. Should this fail, a further choice lies between an amputation (Chopart, Syme, or Pirogoff, according to the situation of the aneurism) and deligation of the posterior tibial. If after the anterior artery has been tied, the per- sistent pulsation can be commanded by pressure behind the inner malleolus, the latter course should be chosen. I am hardly prepared to advise ligature of the common femoral, and do not think that good would result from tying the superficial branch. I am not aware of anv instance of aneurism occurring at the outer side of the foot, nor of any case in which the 'peroneal artery has been tied for such a disease, except the curious instance embraced in the above table, in which some anatomical peculiarity appears to have been present. Plantar Aneurism.—In the sole, when aneurism occurs, it involves the external plantar artery, and is usually situated over the cuboid bone, or some- times at the base of the first metatarsal bone. Here again the presence of communicating branches causes some difficulty in treatment, which must be conducted on the same lines, mutatis mutandis, as that of aneurism of the dorsal artery.1 Aneurism op the Anterior Tirial.—The anterior tibial artery rarely becomes aneurismal. When it does so, the disease occurs usually over the flat surface of the tibia, just above the ankle-joint; or high up, just below where the artery perforates the interrosseous membrane. I do not know of this vessel being affected in the middle of the limb. Both forms of the disease are generally curable.by the Esmarch bandage, or by acute flexion of the knee. The high form is more amenable than the lower to indirect pressure on the femoral. I would recommend the trial of these three measures, in the order mentioned. The two latter should be at first only tentatively employed. If flexion do not either completely or very nearly arrest the pulsation, it should be discontinued. If after from 16 to 24 hours, pressure on the femoral, spread over three days, do not effect material improvement, it will, probably, fail even on longer application. These efforts should not be carried as far for the low as for the high variety, since tying the anterior tibial in the lower third of the leg is a very simple operation, which should also be very safe, but which is only efficacious when the aneu- rism lies low in the limb. Deligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery in its Lower Portion.-—This vessel might be marked out on the surface by a line running from the upper tibio- peroneal articulation to a little inside the centre of the ankle-joint. It lies throughout its course in contact with the outer aspect of the anterior tibial muscle, and may best be exposed by making an incision through the super- ficies just outside the tendon of the same name. By pressing the edges of the cut aside, with either the finger or the handle of the knife, the deep.fascia is sufficiently cleared to show the inclosed parts marking it with white lines. 1 A case of this aneurism, cured in four days hy pressure on the anterior and posterior tibial, and direct compression of the tumor, is quoted in the Boston Med. and Surg. Journal. Jan. 29, 1874.