220 INJURIES OE BLOODVESSELS. relations of the veins should always be considered before any incisions are made, throughout the operation. Tumors should be detached from their surroundings, as far as practicable, with the handle instead of the blade of the scalpel; and all veins which it is not necessary to cut should be pushed aside. When it is necessary to divide a vein in the course of the operation, pressure should be made above and below, and should be continued on the cardiac side until the end of the divided vein is securely tied. But especially, when prying out adherent tumors from the deep parts of the neck, or of the axilla, should the surgeon have firm pressure made by his assistants upon the contiguous veins, both above and below. When disarticulating the cla- vicle, special pains should be taken to avoid notching the external jugular vein. When deligating the subclavian artery, special pains should also be taken to avoid wounding the same vein. In amputating at the shoulder- joint, the liability for air to enter the axillary vein, when cut into while the arm is extended, should be suitably met by the application of pressure. But should, unfortunately, the air enter a vein, the surgeon must imme- diately place a finger on the orifice, and pass a ligature around the wounded vessel, on the cardiac as well as on the distal side of the aperture. By sea- sonably stopping the ingress of air in this way, many subjects of this mis- hap have been saved. The symptoms of alarming syncope, and the threatened collapse, must be met by lowering the patient’s head, by artificially maintain- ing the respiration, and by the subcutaneous or rectal administration of diffu- sible stimulants, such as ammonia and brandy. It may, too, be remembered with possible advantage that dogs have been restored by artificial respiration continued for one-half or three-fourths of an hour, when very considerable quantities of air had entered the veins. As a remedial measure of last re- sort, if time permit, a few ounces of blood may be transfused. Wounds of the Aorta, Innominate, and Subclavian Arteries ; the Yen.e Cav^e, and Yen.® Azygos; the Heart, Pulmonary Artery, and Pulmo- nary Yeins. Brief mention must be made of this important class of injuries. Wounds of these vessels very rarely come under surgical treatment. The subjects almost always perish from hemorrhage, or from shock, before surgical aid can be obtained. Wounds of the Aorta.—The following example in which the aorta was punctured by the blade of a penknife is to the point:— James Donohue, aged 8 years, living in the rear of No. 90 Catharine Street, went out about 9 o’clock P. M., on May 1, 1881, to buy an apple. In a few minutes he came back, and meeting his sister, said : “ A boy as big as you are has stabbed me.” There was a small wound in his breast, and soon he fainted in his sister’s arms. He failed rapidly, and although he was taken in an ambulance to the Chambers St. Hospital, he died before midnight of internal hemorrhage. The wound was made with the narrow blade of a penknife, which entered the chest just below the third rib, and punctured the aorta. Afterward, it was shown that the stabbing had been accidental. He lived about two and a half hours. During the civil war no one wounded in the aortic arch, or in any part of the thoracic aorta, lived long enough to receive hospital treatment. Dr. J. B. White mentions a case of bayonet-stab causing a small puncture in the aorta, a few lines external to the pericardium, which proved fatal from hemorrhage. But, since the war, Dr. W. J. Piper reports an accidental pistol-ball perfora-