684 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. there ought to be no possible uncertainty in distinguishing the traumatic luxation, by the history and symptoms as given above. I have known cases, however, in which the displacement of hip-disease in the third stage occurred in such a fashion as might have led to mistake in diagnosis, had no inquiry been made as to the previous soundness of the limb. A boy of scrofulous diathesis entered Mercy Hospital with chronic morbus coxarius in the third stage, the hip and thigh being much distended by a purulent accumulation, but the bone not yet having been displaced, nor the limb shortened. Incision and evacuation of the abscess with probable exsection of the hip were advised, and the ope- ration was set for the following day. During the night, without any external violence, and without attracting the attention of patient or attendant, the femur slipped quietly from its normal position, and in the morning presented to the house-surgeon the usual aspect of dislocation upon the dorsum ilii. Upon exploring the abscess, the head of the femur was found to have its upper side diseased, but its greater part was still covered with cartilage. It lay on the dorsum ilii as in a dislocation, having escaped from its socket through an ulcerated notch in the rim, of only sufficient breadth to allow its displacement. The operation was completed by exsecting the joint, and was followed by a good recovery. A case of hip-disease such as that above related, as closely simulates one of traumatic luxation as any that occurs, there being no external sinus, and the displacement being sudden ; yet it would seem unnecessary to warn a careful surgeon against the possibility of mistaking the two affections, were it not that a number of cases are on record in which this very mistake has been made. Dislocation into the Sciatic Notch.—Some authors speak of a dislocation almost directly backward into the sciatic notch, but all backward dislocations above the tendon of the obturator internus, are in reality but of a single species. Their pathology and symptoms are essentially similar, and they ought not to be separately described on account of mere differences in degree of shorten- ing, adduction, or inversion of the foot. On the other hand, dislocations of the head of the femur below the tendon of the obturator internus, have been shown by Bigelow to be specifically distinct from other backward displace- ments, in reference to both pathology and treatment, since the tendon of this muscle, being wound tightly across the femoral neck at its inner surface, makes a peculiar obstacle to reduction. This form of luxation will be sepa- rately considered. Treatment of Upward and Backward Dislocations.—The treatment of all the backward or dorsal luxations above the obturator tendon, is virtually the same. It may be noted that, in this particular dislocation, the methods of reduction in vogue in Cooper’s day have practically become obsolete during the last decade, through the development of the manipulation method. The revival and perfection of this method of reduction in hip-dislocations, is an interesting illustration of the value of exact pathological knowledge. Reduction by manipulation had been practised in a haphazard way for ages, without having attained the requisite degree of perfection, in any special class of luxations, to supersede the traction method. Its study and its rules of procedure were so purely empirical and so often unreliable, that no great value was attached to them, although in some cases they were identical with the precise methods which modern investigation has shown to be most suc- cessful. In the hip, the basis of the system is the knowledge of the Y ligament in its relative position to the head and neck of the thigh-bone, in their several situations after dislocation. The various flexions, rotations, abductions, or adductions of the thigh, by which the head of the femur may be moved without encountering the unyielding resistance of this ligament, or may be