478 ANEURISM. vomiting may, especially if the aneurism be placed high, undo the work of many months, and may perhaps even add a fresh increment to the disease.1 After days of this treatment, or even after weeks, if progress be slow, only one of three courses is open to the surgeon: (1) To leave the patient to his rapidly approaching fate ; (2) To try the effect of pressure; (3) To ligature the aorta. The choice between these depends in great measure on the place whence the tumor springs, and the height in the abdomen to which it rises. Distal 'pressure has never yet proved of advantage in aneurism of the ab- dominal aorta; so many branches are given olf from this short tract of the vessel, that it does not seem theoretically possible to sufficiently restrict the circulation by means2 which practically have proved unavailing. I know of but three cases in which this plan has been tried: one proved fatal by bruising of the peritoneum and intestine, and in the other two no benefit accrued. Proximal pressure may be applied in abdominal aneurism, provided that the sac be placed low enough to admit a tourniquet pad between it and the dia- phragm ; in other words, if it be on a level with or below the inferior mesen- teric artery, and if its beat be not much above the umbilicus. Thus aneu- risms of the common iliac, or of the upper part of the external iliac arteries, may be so treated, as well as those of the aorta a little above its bifurcation; but five-sixths of aortic abdominal aneurisms arise from the part whence the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery are given oft', that is to say, so high that the ^use of proximal pressure is impossible.3 To Dr. Murray, of Newcastle,4 belongs the credit not only of a first attempt, but also of a first success in this method. Dr. Moxon and Mr. Durham after- wards cured a case of abdominal, probably mesenteric, aneurism by proximal pressure continued uninterruptedly for ten and a half hours.5 The instrument employed is either the abdominal tourniquet of Dr. Pan- coast (Fig. Ill, Yol. I. p. 568), or the aortic compressor of Mr. Lister (Fig. 112, Ibid.). The patient must be prepared by a thorough cleansing of the bowels with medicine and enema. The safest place for the application of the instrument is probably about midway between the umbilicus and the scaphoid cartilage, or a little higher, but not as high as to endanger either the pancreas or the duodenum where they cross the aorta. The intestines should be carefully kneaded and pressed away with the hand as much as possible, and then the fingers are to press the abdominal wall backwards towards the spine, and the pad is to be screwed down upon them. Then, when the fingers are with- drawn, the tourniquet is to be screwed down very slowly, so as to give the viscera ample time to escape to either side.6 No stronger pressure than is needed to command the pulsation of the aneurism should be employed, and if that be persistent, it may be wiser to permit a slight wave than to use very much force. A fair guide will be the behavior of the femoral artery, whose beat is often annulled before that of the aneurism. Owing to the want ot circulation in the nether limbs, good covering with artificial warmth must be supplied. Since pressure sufficient for the purpose cannot possibly be borne by a conscious patient, some form of anaesthetic must be employed; and since fits of severe vomiting are to be avoided, such agents as are least likely to induce that condition should be chosen; and also, since the anaesthesia, though it need not be deep, must be prolonged, it is generally desirable to 1 As far as I can find, three cases only have permanently benefited by this treatment. 2 This is not strictly correct in regard to the common iliac, hut the internal iliac would afford current enough to render compression of the external iliac futile. * See Sibson’s Medical Anatomy, p. 58. 4 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xlvii. p. 187. ' 6 Ibid., vol. lv. p. 21. 6 Even when the pressure is made quite low down, a coil of intestine may become involved, as in Bryant’s case (Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lv. p. 225).