272 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. the pectoralis major muscle. But death followed three hours after the last, and fifty hours after the first operation. Autopsy—The subscapular artery, three-fourths of an inch from its origin, had sloughed; the axillary, and an adjacent vein, had also sloughed. The specimen is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 454). There are anomalies in the origin of the vertebral and thyroid axis ; and the axillary divides into the brachial and ulnar arteries. We should also state that this form of after-bleeding is not unfrequently met with in parts that are involved in, and undergoing destruction from, hospital gangrene, and that some of the most striking instances of it ever witnessed by surgeons have occurred during the progress of that affection. The following abstract and wood-cut (Fig. 455) furnish tolerable illustrations of this point:— Fig. 455. Showing ligations of the radial and hrachial arteries for secondary hemorrhage caused hy gangrene. Spec. 3645, Sect. I., A. M. M. A corporal, aged 37,1 received, June 18, 1864, a gunshot flesh-wound of the upper third of the right forearm. On the 28th he was transferred to Satterlee Hospital. The wound was sloughing; the patient anaemic and despondent. Nitric acid was ap- plied to the wound, and followed by flaxseed poultices ; extra diet was prescribed. By July 20, the gangrene having ceased, healthy granulations had arisen, but the patient’s despondency continued. On the 23d profuse hemorrhage from the radial artery oc- curred, and that vessel was ligated. The surrounding tissues being much disorganized and the hemorrhage continuing, a ligature was put around the brachial just above the bifurcation. Next day several minor hemorrhages occurred, and on the 25th the patient died, apparently of anaemic exhaustion. The specimen is represented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 455), and shows the radial artery ligated just below, and the brachial artery just above, the bifurcation. In all the cases belonging to this category, the bleeding occurs from parts of the arteries where the tunics have not been primarily injured by the mis- siles, as already stated. The solutions of continuity are entirely due to morbid processes of a peculiarly destructive character. These processes are much more rapid in their progress than simple ulceration. The term slough- ing ulceration is sometimes employed to represent the less severe, and that of sloughing phagedena the worst instances. But the secondary hemorrhages which result from sloughing are specially prone to be followed by pyaemia. The accompanying abstract and wood-cut (Fig. 456) will serve to illustrate this point:— A corporal, aged 30,2 received, September 19, 1864, a gunshot flesh-wound of the middle and outer side of the left arm and left side of the back, and entered a general hospital on the 27th. The wound was then sloughing. On October 4, 5, 6, and 7, hemorrhages occurred. The first three were controlled by a saturated solution of alum and persulphate of iron, and compresses of lint. The last hemorrhage required the application of a tourniquet to restrain it; during the day the entire hand and arm became excessively congested and inflamed ; the axillary artery (left) was then tied in its third part. The patient’s general condition was bad; he was much debilitated, having lost in all some thirty-six ounces of blood, and was subject to intermittent 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., p. 450. * Ibid., p. 442.