PUNCTURED WOUNDS OP JOINTS. 725 need not hesitate about his duty. Macnamara1 advises to drill through the hones into suppurating joint cavities, for the purpose of drainage, but his suggestion has not proved acceptable to other surgeons, since it is easier and simpler to make openings, wherever needed, in the capsule. The drainage-openings of the hip may be made behind or in front of the tro- chanter, and those of the ankle on either side, below or in front of the malleoli. The tarsal articulations may be opened wherever they are most accessible. The joints of the phalanges should be drained from the dorsal aspect. The wrist-joint is to be reached on either border, a little towards the dorsal side. The elbow can be opened around the border of the olecranon, and at the junction of the head of the radius with the humerus. The shoulder can be drained in almost all directions, but especially anteriorly and externally.2 From the earnestness with which I have recommended drainage by incisions and tubes, no one should infer that it is proper to neglect a vigorous use of cold and other antiphlogistic measures in the early stages. Antiseptic drain- age should be simply added to and not substituted in the place of, other treats ment. All these rules, of course, will be often modified by the location of the original wound. II. Punctured Wounds op Joints. Punctured w’ounds of joints often recover with surprising ease. If made by a slender weapon, the opening closes instantaneously without admitting any air, and though some acute synovitis may follow, it is in most cases easily managed by cold applications, and not very apt to terminate in suppu- ration. Should it be otherwise, however, and pus be formed, the principles already inculcated must be applied. As the first step, the cavities of the joint may be emptied once or several times by the aspirator. If the pus grow more watery with each aspiration, and be free from offensive odor, and the inflammation abate, there will be hope of a complete cure by aspiration alone, or by aspiration conjoined with antiseptic washing of the cavities through the aspirator tube; but if the parts do not improve, then free incisions must be made, and antiseptic treatment in full be adopted, as in cases of incised wound. Punctures op Finger-joints.—One of the most common joint-wounds of the punctured variety is made by biting. Men of the lower class, in fio-ht- ing, have a strange proclivity to bite each other’s fingers. A tooth penetratino- a digital articulation sets up suppurative inflammation, and the putrid effu- sions, finding no ready escape on account of the closure of the puncture, bur- row around the phalanges, strip off' their periosteum, and lead to necrosis. These wounds should be tested at the outset with a fine probe, to discover any opening into the joint, and if one be found, it should be antiseptically treated at once. If it be seen after inflammation of the articulation is already fully set up, free incisions made immediately, and full antiseptic measures, will prevent very severe mischief. 1 Diseases of the Bones and Joints, p. 115. London, 1881. 2 Baden has published a valuable article on incisions for drainage of joints (Berlin klin. Wochensch., Aug. 6, 1877). Packard, in his edition of Holmes’s System of Surgery (vol. iii. p. 245), discusses the matter briefly. Articles bearing on the subject may be found in various periodicals, especially Edinburgh Medical Journal, September, 1875 ; Lancet, 1875 ; British Medical Journal, September, 1875 ; Gazette Medicale de Strasbourg, 1 Sept. 1877 ; Schmidt’s Jahrbiieher, Band 174, S. 268; Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie, Band x. S. 296; Deutsche med. Wochenschrift, 24 Nov. 1877 ; Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, Dec. 8, 1877 ; Ibid. S. 480 1878.