655 DISLOCATION OP THE STERNAL END OF THE CLAVICLE. irregularity at the top of the sternum might constitute a serious impairment of beauty, more time will be sacrificed by both patient and surgeon for the chance of a perfect recovery than in the opposite sex, where only the practi- cal usefulness of the member is to be considered. Upward Dislocation op Sternal End of Clavicle.—This accident is ex- tremely rare, the total number of recorded cases being only twelve, to which I can add two others from my own practice. The causes of the upward dislocation are the same as those of the forward luxation, viz.: blows or falls striking upon the outer part of the shoulder, and driving the clavicle inward in such a way that, partly by the direct force and partly by the leverage, the capsular ligament is torn, and the head of the bone is driven from its seat on the sternum. The inter-clavicular and costo- clavicular ligaments must also he ruptured in severe cases. The symptoms resemble in the main those of forward dislocation, except in the position of the head of the bone, which lies above rather than in front of its natural seat. In Dr. Rochester’s ease, reported by Hamilton, the head of the bone lay in front of the thyroid cartilage, its presence in this extreme location giving rise to severe pain and dyspnoea, with loss of speech. The bone encroaches visibly upon the opposite side of the neck, with of course a corresponding falling in of the shoulder of the affected side. Malgaigne’s four cases, and that of Rochester, above mentioned, do not encourage us to expect perfect retention after the luxation has been reduced. The two cases which I herewith contri- bute, show one perfect recovery without deformity, as the result of a specially zealous and persevering trial, and one indifferent result, which represents the average success to be expected. A per- manent displacement of half an inch or more will usually persist; but the func- tions of the shoulder and arm are prac- tically unimpaired. The prognosis there- fore is not grave. In the case of a young lady of Chicago, who suffered this injury, I succeeded, by spe- cial efforts, in effecting a perfect restoration of the joint. The luxation was produced by a fall from a carriage, and was not seen by me for several days. Upon first examina- tion, it was found that the sternal end was displaced about one inch above its normal seat. There was no great pain or swelling, but the bone showed a constant tendency to reluxation, when pressed down to its place. The dressing consisted of a firm compress of folded cloth upon the head of the bone and its whole inner third, held in place by broad straps of adhesive plaster, about two yards in length, carried upon the front and back of the trunk, down as far as the waist, and crossing each other upon the compress in two or three different directions. Other plaster bands were carried obliquely downward under the affected elbow from the oppo- site shoulder, lifting the arm upward, and prying the shoulder outward over a thick axillary pad. The head was kept bent forward by bandages, and rotated toward the Fig. 554. of sternal end of clavicle.