425 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. been adopted, also, in other cases of abdominal aneurism, and occasionally with success.1 Brilliant as the cure, when it occurs, may be, the method is not without danger, not only to the aneurism, but also to the peritoneum and viscera at the point of pressure. The same means are used also for aneurisms of the limbs; indeed, since the success of the method in abdominal cases, and the occasional rapid cures by the Esmarch bandage and by flexion, some considerable moditication in the views of surgeons has taken place; even the Irish school no longer so strongly insists upon the necessity of permitting the continuance of that slight stream through the tumor—that gentle thrill of the sac—which seemed to them formerly an essential. Many now prefer to entirely occlude the artery, per- mitting no wave to pass. If to do this a great degree of pressure is required— such a degree as even morphia will not render bearable—an anaesthetic is given, and its action maintained for several consecutive hours, as many as eighteen, with just a short interval, perhaps, for giving food; or the patient may be fed by the rectum. A certain number of persons are able to bear such pressure as will completely eliminate pulsation without this aid, even though repeated at no long intervals for eight or ten hours at a time; and after even as long a period as six months, the method may succeed or may fail.2 I cannot say, however, that such persevering—I had almost said obstinate—adherence to one method is deserving of imitation. General Compression.—Another method is to apply pressure to the whole limb, which may be best done by the use of the Esmarch bandage; it is most suitable for aneurisms situated some distance below the proximal joint of a limb, but may also be used as a species of distal pressure below an axillary or an inguinal aneurism. Esmarch’s bandage was first employed for the cure of a popliteal aneurism by Dr. Reid, at the Royal Haval Hospital, at Plymouth, in September, 1875, after failure of proximal pressure by Carte’s apparatus. The flat elastic ban- dage was rolled on the limb from the toes upward to the upper third of the thigh, being wound only loosely over the tumor. The cord was then placed in situ to compress the vessel, and the roller removed. In 50 minutes the pain became unbearable ; the Carte’s compressor was then lightly and intermit- tently applied for some hours, but merely as a precautionary measure; for by the suppression of the circulation the aneurism had been cured, and pulsa- tion never returned. Many cases of aneurism, more especially popliteal, have since been treated in a similar manner, sometimes successfully, sometimes the reverse.3 Hine months after his cure, Dr. Reid’s patient died of heart disease and bronchitis; the popliteal artery was found occluded for 2J inches by “ fibrous tissue,” and chiefly above the sac ; the vein was pervious. Col- lateral vessels ran as usual, communicatiag with the artery above and below. The sac was well defined, being thicker where it joined the artery than else- where. The centre, and also the portion of the cavity adjacent to the vessel, were occupied by an amorphous, non-laminated, coffee-colored substance of the consistence of cheese, which showed no signs of organization, or of vascular connection with the surrounding parts. The portion of the circumference of the cavity of the aneurism opposite its mouth, was occupied by several layers of laminated fibrine. Some of these were partially separated from the others, and approximated towards the centre; the interspaces thus caused were filled with amorphous substance, which, however, was of a looser character than that already described.4 1 See section on treatment of abdominal aneurisms. 2 See ease in Dublin Journal of Medical Science, 1877. 3 Statistics will be given on a subsequent page. * Lancet, vol. ii. 1875, and vol. i. 1877. .