98 TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 5, 1881. as well tolerated as wire of any other metal; and, inasmuch as it could be produced of extreme fineness without being too much weakened, he used it exclusively in the end.1 Thus, the employment of metallic sutures soon became popular among surgeons. The non-absorbent and non-irritating character of metallic threads, as shown by their use for sutures in dressing wounds, naturally suggested to. surgeons their employment for ligatures in tying arteries. Accordingly, Dr. Stone, of Hew Orleans, ligated the common iliac artery with a silver wire, in 1859. Since that time, Professor Gross has ligated the femoral, and Professor Agnew the brachial artery with the same sort of metallic thread. In 1866, Dr. C. H. Mastin, of Mobile, tied the external iliac with the same, material. In applying the metallic, as well as the animal, ligature, both ends, are cut off near the knot. The final disposition of the loop, however, is quite different in these cases. The portion of an animal ligature that is left in the wound is expected to become soft, infiltrated with leucocytes, and in the end entirely absorbed, as stated above; Avhile the best that we can hope for- a metallic loop, is that it will become imbedded in a deposit of organizable. lymph. Appreciation of the Different Ligatures.—The “flaxen thread” of Avi-. cenna, and the hempen thread of recent times, are admirably adapted in respect, to form, size, and strength, for the ligation of bloodvessels. But opposed to these good qualities is the fact that these threads are liable to cause much irritation by their presence in wounds, not only because they are foreign bodies, but also because a peculiar fermentation of an acid nature may occur, which has in them its starting point and seat. For example, Mr. Lister, in operating for goitre, used six hempen ligatures carefully rendered antiseptic by means of the carbolic lotion. During the first eight clays everything went on in typical fashion according to the antiseptic method. On the ninth day, how-, ever, some pus was observed mingled with the discharge. The purulence. increased, and in a month one of the hempen ligatures made its escape. In six days more, four others came away, altogether unaltered in appearance. They were submitted to careful examination. They had a sour odor, and, applied to litmus paper, gave an acid reaction; that is, the natural alkaline reaction of blood-serum had been changed to acidity by a peculiar fermenta- tion, differing from putrefaction, which would, if possible, have made the blood-serum still moi'e alkaline. Under the microscope, the interstices of the threads were found loaded with little organisms to which Mr. Lister gave the name of granuligera, occurring in groups of twos, threes, and fours, etc., quite, distinct from the chains in which ordinary bacteria occur. These micrococci, developing in great abundance in the interstices of the hempen ligatures, produced an acid fermentation of the serum in its most aggravated form. The acid serum caused irritation, and thus the carbolized ligatures which, otherwise, might have become encapsuled, gave rise to suppuration. The. remaining ligature was ultimately discharged, unaltered in appearance, in the same manner.2 Here, then, Ave have an illustration of the great disadvantages which may arise, even under antiseptic treatment, from the use of hempen and other ligatures made of vegetable fibres. Carbolized Silk (that is, uucolored silk Avhich has lain for half an hour in a mixture of melted wax and carbolic acid) is not, in my opinion, open to this particular objection for use in the ligation of bloodvessels. G. Simon, as the result of many experiments, did not perceive any important difference be-. 1 Gaz. Hebei., 1862, pp. 135, 181, 261, 359.