SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 368 Cavernous angeioma of the liver. Section made after the tumor had heen immediately submerged in alcohol: a, cavernous spaces filled with blood-corpuscles ; 6, fibrous walls of the sinuses. Magnified 150 diameters. (From Cor- nil and Eanvier.) sents the same appearances as the normal blood, but that the white corpuscles are less numerous. They do not adhere to the walls of the vessels. This is con- sidered as proof of a rapid circulation, since Fig- 53°- in veins where the circulation is weakened or retarded, the leucocytes tend to adhere to the walls. After excision the vessels contract, forcing out their contents, and the mass shrinks to a comparatively small size. These tumors are not all erectile, and some which have been erectile for a time lose this property. Gross describes a form of nievoid tumor as ncevoid elephantiasis, consisting of a hypertrophied condition of the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue. The affection, which is either con- genital or comes on soon after birth, is found usually in the lower extremities, though it may occur elsewhere. The theories as to the origin of these neoplasms are various., Some hold that simple dilatation of contiguous veins occurs, when, the sacculated vessels coming in con- tact, the walls are absorbed, and thus many cavities which formerly were separate, form one or more large, multilocular, cavernous tumors. These dilatations occur not only in the skin and subcutaneous tissues, hut also in bone and muscle. No tissue can be considered exempt. Rokitansky holds that they originate in the areolar tissue, from embryonic, new-formation tissue, and that the vascularization of this new tissue is one of the last processes of its development. He compares the alveoli of the cavernous angeioma to those of carcinoma. Rindfleisch believes that the appearance of these tumors is preceded by a proliferation of embryonic material in the intcrvascular spaces, and that this material, undergoing the usual process of cicatrization and contraction, causes a shrinkage in the intervascular areas, when the vessels dilate to occupy the space left vacant by the contracting tissues (Billroth). Cornil and Ranvier say that in the active development of angeiomata there is a proliferation of embryonic tissue, rich in new-formed vessels, which, in- creasing rapidly in size, come in contact and communicate with each other by absorption of contiguous surfaces. Angeiomata may develop in fatty and other neoplasms. Billroth men- tions a case in which a large cavernous angeioma was found in a lipoma removed from the scapular region. They have been known to originate as a result of injury. Gross cites a case, reported by Dr. J. Mason Warren, of a man thirty-six years old, who had a large aneurism by anastomosis, situated on the lobe of the ear, which resulted from a frost-bite which the patient had suf- fered in his sixteenth year. In addition to the tissues already mentioned in which angeiomata are developed, may be mentioned the spleen, kidney, liver, and lung. The liver is frequently, the lung very rarely, involved. In bones, this disease exhibits the same erectile characters as in other structures. It occurs in the flat bones by preference, especially those of the cranium, jaws, and scapula, being often very painful, and grave as to prognosis. Angeiomata are not infrequently situated on the labia of women. Holmes Coote has ob- served serous cysts in connection with these vascular growths. An explana- tion of their formation is, that communication of a portion of one dilated