95 TREATMENT OP HEMORRHAGE BY TORSION. and others, made numerous trials thereof in Germany, seemingly with entire success. The French surgeons, Louis and Delpech, met with several failures. The subject was deemed of such importance by the Institute of France as to require a thorough examination, and, accordingly, it was referred to Baron Dupuytren. His report was unfavorable to the method, except in its applica- tion to small arteries. Then torsion went out of use again, to be revived once more, however, by the late Professor Syme. During late years it has met with great favor at Guy’s Hospital, London, from Mr. Bryant and others; but in America it has not been received with much favor, though at the Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, Dr. Hewson used it with success. The torsion of arteries for suppressing hemorrhage may be practised in various ways. ■ Amussat recommended that the artery should be drawn out about half an inch by one pair of forceps; that it should then be seized by another pair of forceps, and the end twisted off by about half-a-dozen turns. Fricke advised that the end should not be taken off, but merely twisted around six or eight times, according to the size of the vessel. Thierry simply seized the artery by its end and twisted it. Doubtless, hemorrhage from very large vessels may be permanently suppressed by torsion, the artery being placed thereby in a lacerated condition. The inner and middle coats are retracted, and the outer one is twisted into a kind of valve, which covers them. A coagulum next forms within the tube, blocking up its extremity; inflamma- tion then occurs, gluing together the lacerated coats of the vessel; the twisted end sloughs off, and the tube becomes permanently occluded up to the nearest branch. Two methods of twisting the ends of divided arteries, so as to arrest the bleeding, are now in vogue. The first is substantially that of Thierry. To Fig. 391. Slide-catch artery torsion and needle forceps. perform his operation strong forceps, having serrations which are not sharp enough to cut the artery, are required. (Fig. 391 or Fig. 392.) The end of Fig. 392. the artery being seized, it should be drawn well out into view, and the forceps should be merely rotated until all resistance ceases, but not to the extent of twisting off the end of the vessel. This operation is also called that of free torsion. The second method is that of Amussat. (Fig. 393.) According to this author, the artery should be taken hold of and drawn out five or six lines from the surface of the wound by forceps of suitable breadth, and furnished