INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL 12 Syphilitic Contracture.—As a consequence of a myositis of low grade, occur- ring both in the earlier and later periods of syphilis—even as early as the second month, according to Mauriac—muscular contracture at times takes place. Actual shortening may or may not exist, but whether it does or not, full extension cannot be made, the degree of limitation having been observed at times to exceed 90°. The biceps flexor cubiti is the muscle that is almost always affected, and there has been observed at the same time contraction of the triceps extensor, so that true muscular anchylosis has been caused. In the contracture occurring in the early period of syphilis, though there may be some little pain produced by pressure over the musculo-tendinous junction, the progressive flexion is the symptom that will at once attract attention and permit of a diagnosis being made. The muscle and all the structures enter- ing into the formation of the elbow-joint are apparently perfectly healthy; “ the patient presents himself with the forearm flexed upon the arm and im- mobilized in that position,” and that is all. By the ordinary anti-syphilitic treatment this early rigidity may usually be made to disappear. The contractures coming on later, and not due to gummata, are the result of diffuse myositis, there being produced the “ simple fibrous inflammation” of Virchow in the midst of the interstitial tissue of the muscular bundles, a con- nective tissue forming “ which hardens and destroys, after having caused their atrophy, the primitive muscular flbrillse.” The biceps is the usual seat of this form of contracture also, but by no means as exclusively as of that already noticed. In many of these late-appearing cases it is very probable that the causative lesion has been not a primary myositis, but a bursitis or an arthritis which has either disappeared or is lost sight of in the presence of the secondary muscle-inflammation. Gummata of Muscle.—Gummy tumors are not infrequently met with in the muscles, especially in those of the upper extremity and the neck. Their his- tological character is the same as that of those located elsewhere, they being made up of young round cells with single nuclei that rapidly tend to undergo fatty degeneration. The perimysium is probably the original seat of the gum- matous deposit, either no change or a fatty degeneration of the muscular elements being seen, according to the period of observation. Sometimes escaping notice, these gummata, which frequently attain quite considerable size, usually attract attention both on account of their volume and the func- tional disturbances to which they give rise, though their nature may be mis- understood, a gumma being sometimes mistaken for a sarcoma orv fibroma, or, in the tongue particularly, for a carcinoma. The diagnosis may, generally, be readily made by remembering that gum- mata are swellings of the muscles rather than tumors in them; by noting their firmness, the induration being most easily detected when the muscle is in a state of relaxation, though the natural hardness is greatest during con- traction ; and by observing their location in the long muscles near their points of insertion, their occurrence in syphilitic subjects, and the results of anti-syphi- litic treatment. They usually belong to the accidents of the later periods of syphilis, but at times are met with during the secondary stage. Under proper treatment, their disappearance may generally be secured in the course of a few weeks, or at most months, and even when left to themselves they sometimes disappear. Usually, however, they after a time soften, break down, and by the establishment of sinuses discharge themselves, or, as is more common, again become harder and undergo calcareous or even osseous transformation. It is doubtful if they ever suppurate; indeed, Mauriac has declared that the non- formation of pus is one of their characteristics which is of great value in the establishment of a differential diagnosis.