270 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. teeth, a part of the tongue, and the posterior wall of the pharynx, and lodged. He had extreme difficulty and distress in swallowing food or drink. On the 13th, the missile and several teeth were removed from an abscess above the clavicle. On the 16th, copi- ous hemorrhage from the mouth occurred, and was suppressed by tying the common caro- tid artery, under ether. On the 23d, secondary hemorrhage again occurred, but this time, however, from the aperture through which the ball and teeth had been extracted, ten days before. An unsuccessful attempt was then made to find the bleeding point; and death occurred from hemorrhage, on the same day. An autopsy showed that the transverse process of the third cervical vertebra had been fractured by the missile, and that the vertebral artery had rubbed against a displaced fragment of it until the arterial tunics were worn or ulcerated completely through ; hence the last hemorrhage.1 The first of the two secondary bleedings wThich occurred in this case, appears to have proceeded from wounded branches of the external carotid, particularly the lingual artery, and was readily suppressed by tying the com- mon carotid. But simple ulcerative inflammation may spontaneously occur in the walls of arteries, and open their channels, as sometimes happens in depraved conditions of the organism; for example, those induced by typhoid diseases, by purulent infection, by scrofulosis, and by great losses of blood. McClellan relates the case of a man who had, as a sequel of epidemic influenza, a critical abscess of one of the submaxillary glands, which, on being lanced, discharged an ichorous sanies. Next day, a violent hemorrhage broke forth, and continued until complete syncope. The bleeding recurred, and McClellan, who was called in consultation, dilated the orifice of the abscess, and, on sponging out the coagula, found that the facial artery had been opened by ulceration. The tissues were so much softened that ligatures cut through them. The actual cautery was then applied to the bleeding orifice, and the hemorrhage permanently ceased. The patient perfectly recovered.2 In the following example, the internal carotid artery was opened by spon- taneous ulceration, and surgical hemorrhage took place:— E. Schwartz3 relates the case of a man, aged 61, who had necrosis of the right angle of the lower jaw, with profuse and very fetid suppuration. One day profuse hemorrhage from the cavity of the abscess occurred; it was arrested by introducing a plug through the mouth. The next day it returned, and caused death. Autopsy—The internal carotid artery was found exposed, and infiltrated with ichorous pus; it presented ante- riorly an oval aperture, one-fourth of an inch long, about an inch and a half from the bifurcation of the common carotid. Sometimes the internal carotid artery, or a branch of the external carotid, is spontaneously opened by ulceration in cases of acute abscess of the tonsils, as happened in the following instructive instance:— Ehrmann4 reports the case of a young Italian, who entered the hospital with angina tonsillaris. On the third day the abscess broke, and immediately half a litre of bright red blood poured from the mouth. Three hours later the hemorrhage recurred, but in less quantity. No pulsation could be felt in the tonsillar swelling. A third hemor- rhage, more severe than both the preceding put together, caused the common carotid artery to be ligatured. The bleeding then permanently ceased. There was aphonia, which, however, disappeared in four days; no cerebral disturbance occurred. In six weeks the patient was discharged cured. The rational treatment of such hemorrhages consists in tying the carotid; and inasmuch as the source of the bleeding in such cases, whether it proceed from the internal carotid or from branches of the external carotid, cannot be determined during life, deligation of the common carotid must be preferred. 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 355. 2 Op. cit., p. 200 ; foot-note. 3 Gaz. des Hopitaux, Mai 7, 1874. 1 Centralblatt fur Chirurgie, No. 34, 1879.