647 DISLOCATIONS. trivance called by sailors the Spanish windlass, is made by twisting with a crossbar a number of cords, attached to the extending, band at one end, and to some fixed object at the other. As the crossbar is swept around con- tinuously in one direction, the torsion of the bundle contracts its length with irresistible power for a short distance. The power thus obtained is dangerously great, and, at the same time, the limits of motion are inconveniently small. The contrivance is much infe- rior to one used by thp author in such cases, and called by some sailors the Spanish capstan, although it too is termed the Spanish windlass by many. The contrivance is more easily extemporized than the one commonly recom- mended by surgical writers, and is always preferred by sailors for simple increase of power within moderate limits. To set up this apparatus, let the extending line be carried around a strong, movable stick or rail of any kind, and fastened by one or two turns to a cross- bar, placed at right angles. For this purpose boatmen often use two oars. The handle of a broom, with a cane or rule for a crossbar, will furnish enough power for reducing dislocations. This strong bar is placed so as to rest across a doorway or window, the foot of the patient’s bed, or some firm support, and the opposite end of the cord is attached to the limb, and exten- sion to any amount is obtained simply by sweeping the crossbar around the other, winding up the cord upon it as a capstan winds up a cable. The Spahish capstan is by far the best of all extemporaneous methods of multiplying the extending power. It gives any required amount of tractile force, it is easily prepared, and, instead of being limited to the few inches of shortening obtainable by twisting the cords of the Spanish windlass, it will haul in forty feet of line, if desired, as readily as one. In this method, also, the assistant whose hand turns the cross-stick readily estimates the amount of force, and avoids the unwitting application of a dangerous amount of tension. Jarvis’s Adjuster.—A very valuable instrument for all purposes of making extension was known to surgeons of the past generation as Jarvis’s adjuster. Fig. 551. Although not at the present day manufactured and sold, on account of the general neglect into which it has fallen with the profession, this is still, for a certain percentage of cases, the most etficient means of treatment we have at command, and one unaccountably neglected by modern surgeons. For the