4 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIA5. majority, though, of these accidents the inconvenience to the individual is so slight that either nothing need be done, or a simple retentive bandage may be applied so as to limit the degree of protrusion. Inflammation of Muscle.—Primary myositis, not dependent upon injury, contiguous inflammation, diathetic conditions, or parasites, is exceedingly rarely met with. Indeed, it is with many a question whether such idiopa- thic inflammation can ever take place ; and it is agreed that muscular tissue is of all in the body least liable to spontaneously take on inflammation. There are cases met with, however, in which, as is supposed, in consequence of exposure to cold or of excessive use, a muscle-inflammation occurs, pre- senting the ordinary symptoms of such pathological conditions, and charac- terized by a peculiar firmness along the course of the muscle, the “ woody- hardness” of Velpeau. Such inflammation may terminate either in resolu- tion, which is most usual, or in sclerosis, or, which comparatively seldom occurs, in suppuration. Traumatic myositis is frequently met with, much more so in men than in women, on account doubtless of their greater exposure to the action of the developing causes. It gives rise in greater or less degree to pain both on pressure and movement; to limited swelling, the outline of which corresponds to the muscular contour (such swelling being chiefly due to effusion and-exu- dation, but in part at times to extravasation of blood); and to interference with or entire arrestation of the functional action of the affected part; with associated heat, redness, and it may be ecchymoses in the overlying skin. As a rule, such muscle-inflammation is of little importance, being but one of many pathological conditions resulting from the causative injury, and usually disappearing without any treatment other than that proper for the relief of the general effects of the accident. In this, as in the very much rarer idio- pathic form of myositis, suppuration seldom takes place (except when the psoas is the muscle affected, in which case it is almost certain to occur); and when it does, such occurrence will generally be found to be due to a predis- posing, cachectic condition of the patient, with perhaps an unusually large extravasation of blood. In most cases such suppuration is readily recovered from, either with complete muscular restoration, or with the formation of the ordinary con- nective-tissue cicatrix. At times, however, more often in badly-nourished subjects, but sometimes in the robust, a diffuse inflammation of very grave character is met with, affecting few or many muscles, and very analogous to acute osteo-myelitis and acute phlegmonous periostitis. This “muscular typhus,” which is generally, if not always, of septic origin, and in which the diseased muscles rapidly break down and septicaemia conditions are early manifested, is, if left to itself, almost necessarily mortal, and the fatal result can be averted at the best only by early and free incisions, and the consequent pi’ompt evacuation of pus and separation of the necrosed tissue. Differing from this in its localization and in the less dangerous constitu- tional symptoms which result, is the acute necrosis of a single muscle or an associated group of muscles; as in the case reported by Liicke, in which, following a fall which produced no pain nor apparent extravasation, the whole mass of muscles on the antero-external surface of the leg perished, in consequence, as the reporter believed, of embolism of the supplying artery, though such an explanation may well be questioned, since the pulsation of the dorsalis pedis artery remained unaffected throughout. Occasionally the myositis is a chronic one, swelling with associated “ woody ” hardness being ordinarily the only symptom present. When not consequent upon inflammation of contiguous joints or bones, most of these slowly-