724 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. strength of two and a half parts to the hundred being as safe an article as can be found. If there be no proof that any foreign substances are in the joint, and if there have been no long exposure to the air, the wound may be closed at once without any injection, but should be dressed antiseptically, as before. As the physician in private practice will not find at his patient’s bedside a pair of steam-spray machines, with all the other complex appliances of “ Listerism,” it will be well to describe here an extemporaneous antiseptic plan, which can be carried out in any place where carbolic acid, or any other good antiseptic, can be obtained. First let the surgeon prepare a quantity of carbolized water of the strength of about two and a half per cent., or one part of crystals, or of 95 per-cent, acid, to forty of water. This can be used to wash the wound, to syringe the joint,1 and to apply as a wet dressing. As a substitute for the carbolic spray, let an assistant, during the dressing, keep a little of the two-and-a-half per cent, solution dripping constantly across the wounded surface, which will effectu- ally prevent all septic infection from without. Sutures and adhesive plasters may be used if needed. A thick compress of cotton batting, lint, or soft towelling, soaked in the carbolized water, may nowT be laid on the closed wound, and the whole covered with strong paper dipped in melted lard, tallow, cerate, or wax. A wrap or bandage retains the whole in position. Such a dressing will remain perfectly aseptic for twenty-four hours. If longer intervals between the dressings are required, it is better to soak the cotton or lint compress in a mixture of one part of crystals of carbolic acid, in twelve parts of any bland oil, or of glycerine. Such a compress, covered with oiled paper, will retain its antiseptic powers perfectly for several days. With materials thus extemporized, a practitioner who comprehends the principles of the art can make absolutely antiseptic dressings. If inflammation has ensued in the synovial sac, and has as yet only invaded one segment of it, then a small opening should be maintained in one angle of the wound, under antiseptic guards, in order that the irritating fluids may escape freely, and not accumulate under a pressure which would lift the patella, and allow them to enter the other segment of the sac. To prevent this, it is well to temporarily flex the knee somewhat, and thus constrict the isthmus of the synovial cavity in the manner already explained. If, however, the disease has spread to the whole cavity, the flexed position should not be long main- tained, lest it become permanent. If suppuration invades the entire joint, it puts the patient in serious peril of his life, unless resolutely treated. The pus undergoes decomposition, and rapidly poisons the blood by absorption. It fills not only all the deep, com- plex pockets below the patella, but the wide sac above it, and often pene- trates along the meshes of the great bursa above, and converts the whole front of the thigh into a long, diffused abscess, whose vascular walls absorb the putrefying fluids with deadly rapidity. In addition, caries is often in- duced in the articular surfaces, forming a very grave addition to the previous troubles. I have been thus particular in describing the management of incised wounds of the knee, because of their great danger, and of the wretched inetficiency of the treatment ordinarily adopted. The limits of this article do not admit of equal details regarding all the other articulations, but the principles are the same, and with these, guided by his anatomical knowledge, the surgeon 1 Two and a half per cent, is the proper strength for syringing out a suppurating joint cavity. To wash out a healthy, freshly exposed, synovial sac, not yet suppurating, one half this strength will he better.