INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 104 lates the volume of mixed gases to he passed. Platinum points of various patterns, e. g., knife-shaped, No. 2, flat, No. 3, and needle-pointed, No. 4, are easily attached. Appreciation of the Various Haemostatics. Most of the agents employed by surgeons for the suppression of hemor- rhage, have been so thoroughly discussed in the foregoing pages, that but little remains to be said concerning their relative value or importance. Cold is unquestionably a most valuable, as well as an ancient and safe, means of arresting hemorrhage. Fresh cold air and carbolized iced water (one part to one hundred) afford the most convenient and useful forms for applying it. The latter may be squeezed out of a sponge in a shower, or squirted from a syringe in a small stream, upon the bleeding surface. [Hot water is often of value in arresting capillary hemorrhage.] Among styptics, the best are alcohol and the oil of turpentine; the latter to be applied directly to the bleeding apertures on dossils of lint. Persulphate and perchloride of iron are peculiarly objectionable, inasmuch as their use is attended with the for- mation of hard, insoluble coagula, which are removed with great difficulty, and which, if allowed to remain, interfere very much with the di’essing and healing of deep wounds, and with the performance of any surgical operations that may afterward be needed. The ferric salts should be restricted in their use as styptics to leech-bites, to parenchymatous hemorrhages, and to superficial injuries. Compression, both as a temporary expedient and as an adjuvant to other mea- sures for arresting hemorrhage, is of extreme utility. The value of digital compression as a temporary haemostatic when large vessels are wounded—espe- cially when promptly, that is, seasonably applied, cannot be over-estimated. Compression by tourniquets is indispensable. The elastic bandage and tub- ing, or ligature, of Esmarch, afford, also, a most excellent means of applying pressure for the temporary arrest of, hemorrhage, in-a wide range of cases. Tampons, too, in some wounds are absolutely necessary. Neither acupressure nor torsion affords anything like the same security that attends the application of ligatures to wounded bloodvessels. Constriction, by Hr. Speir’s instrument, is superior to both torsion and acupressure, because with it the lumen of the artery can certainly be filled up by the incurvations of the divided inner and middle coats. The success of aerteriversion is not yet assured. Ligation affords the greatest security that is possible against the return of hemorrhage, provided it be made with threads of animal origin which have been properly prepared for the purpose ; for instance, with ligatures of catgut prepared by Mr. Lister’s method. The grounds on which rest the supe- riority of animal ligatures in general, and that of the prepared catgut liga- tures of Mr. Lister in particular, over all others, have already been set forth; it is not necessary to recur to them in this place. The actual cautery is indispensable for suppressing hemorrhage from small deeply-seated arteries, so placed that they cannot be tied or compressed ; for example, in the mouth, the fauces, the nares, the rectum, etc.; and from parts which, by reason of weakening or disintegration, will not hold a ligature. Internal Hemostatics. There are a few remedies which may assist not a little in suppressing hem- orrhage, when administered internally, provided that the bleeding vessels are