37 LYMPHADENOSIS. nated, is rather unsettled. Formerly, the affection was termed Hodgkin’s dis- ease, progressive glandular hypertrophy, adenia, or pseudo-leukaemia, and the- growths were called lymphomata, or vascular sarcomata of the lymphatic- glands. We, however, generally adopt the term, “malignant lymphoma,” of Billroth, or “lymphosarcoma,” of Virchow. Wunderlich appears to have made the first accurate clinical observations on the disease, whilst Virchow assigned to it its pathological position, and Billroth first opened prospects of successful treatment based on his histological researches (Birch-Hirschfeld). We must regard lymphadenosis as a true diathesis, and one marking the lymphatic diathesis in its most “ accentuated” form. Primarily a disease of the lymphatic system, it is characterized by the enlargement of groups of glands, or of the entire glandular system. There is always anaemia and ab- sence of tendency to suppuration. It would seem that it is only in isolated cases that the disease is primarily developed in already swollen glands, and in the majority of cases the absence of the scrofulous habit is expressly noticed, the disease making its appearance, as a rule, at a later age than scrofula. As regards the locality of the affection, we find that the hypertrophy generally commences in the cervical or submaxillary glands, or in the gland ulse concatenate. Occasionally the disease commences in the axillary, inguinal, or mediastinal glands, but more frequently these glands enlarge by subsequent invasion. I have now under my observation a man whose cervical glands are so enormously enlarged that it appears as though the face was “ peeping” out of the mass, which has been of very rapid growth; the axillary glands are becoming clearly affected. The hypertrophy is generally painless, unless nerve trunks be involved at once, and the glands are very slow to suppurate or degenerate; occasionally, however, they have been known to undergo case- ation. At first there is a slow failing of health, in no way marked, but when all the glands are involved the general health begins to suffer; increasing anaemia follows as the disease progresses, the patient, unless some vital part be affected, finally dying from exhaustion. As a rule, the disease proves fatal within two or three years of its first appearance. When death does not occur under the influence of a local affection of this kind, and extraordinary development, or by the appearance of some grave complication, cachexia of the severest degree ensues. The anaemia becomes so prominent that Wilks named the disease after this symptom anaemia lymphatica. ... In the last period of the disease, insomnia is a frequent symptom (sometimes, on the contrary, somnolence is present), the appetite is completely lost, profuse diarrhoea sets in almost without ex- ception, dropsical symptoms appear, bed-sores form, and finally the patient sinks into collapse.1 Symptoms of Lymphadenosis.—With regard to the symptoms of lymphade- nosis, in the present state of our knowledge we can hardly expect to recog- nize it until glandular hypertrophy exists, and, of course, when commencing in parts where we cannot palpate, the nature of the disease must remain totally obscure. It is usually quite painless, but is occasionally associated with great pain. In a case under my notice at present, the tumor is gi'owing beneath the upper part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and causing in- tense pain to the patient, who is about twenty-five years of age, and has marked pyrexia. (According to Gowers, pyrexia is present in two-thirds of the cases.) There is no characteristic change, however, in the temperature: in the earlier stages there is no fever, but afterwards the evening temperature is higher, and sinks below normal before collapse. Anatomical considera- Birch-Hirschfeld, Ziemssen’s Cyclopaedia, vol. xvi. p. 835.