HEMOPHILIA, OR THE HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. 261 position of bleeders to hemorrhages, and the severity of the hemorrhages themselves, are usually by no means the same at all times of life, but present all sorts of fluctuations and differences. To this second factor must be added the habitually forcible contractions of the heart, of which we have ample evidence in the unusually hard pulse and apex-beat of many hsemophilic individuals, and particularly in the cardiac hypertrophy occasionally found at their autopsies. To epitomize our present knowledge of its pathology, we may state that haemophilia is, in general, a congenital and habitual form of the hemorrhagic diathesis, in which the oft-recurring and easily-induced hemorrhages for the most part owe their extraordinary vehemence, obstinacy, and danger, to an equally congenital and habitual disproportion between the volume of the blood and the capacity of the vascular apparatus, resulting in an abnormal increase of lateral pressure within the vessels. Moreover, in many instances, functional erethism of the heart, as well as cardiac hypertrophy, by inducing a tendency to congestions, affords important aid in producing the hemorrhages themselves, and in imparting to them their abnormal clinical character. Finally, neurotic influences occasionally act as an additional factor by tem- porarily increasing the habitually congestive diathesis. Prognosis.—The ultimate result of haemophilia in a great majority of cases is death, possibly in the first attack, but usually from one of the hemor- rhages in later life. The mortality of the disease is therefore very high, and at the same time very premature, on account of the generally very early out- break of the diathesis, and its intensity during the first period of life. A very large number of bleeders succumb to the murderous affection in early youth, the rate of mortality between the first and seventh years being parti- cularly excessive, while only a comparatively small proportion of bleeders, suffering from the well-marked and fully developed form of the disease, escapes the constantly-threatening danger of a fatal hemorrhage until the age is reached when the diathesis is frequently observed to abate sponta- neously, or to become latent (Immermann). There can be no question, there- fore, as to the extremely pernicious character of haemophilia, especially in childhood and youth. This view is confirmed by the results noted in 212 fatal cases of haemophilia that were collected by Grandidier. Of the entire number of patients, 121, or more than one-half, died from hemorrhage before reaching the eighth year, and only 24 survived the twenty-second year. Treatment.—Every precaution should be taken to avoid all kinds of injury, and likewise all influences which determine the occurrence of plethora and congestions. If a tendency to constipation be present, it should be com- bated with saline cathartics, especially Glauber’s salt; and not unfrequently the manifestations of plethora can be palliated by the vigorous use of that remedy when constipation is not present. The traumatic external hemorrhages of haemophilia always demand imme- diate interference. Internal medication should always be employed in such cases, as well as local measures. Among the latter, compression continued for a considerable time, perhaps for days, is the most reliable. The actual cautery rarely suffices, and therefore should not be employed in these cases. The twisted suture has in many instances been found of great service, when the wounds were very small, such as leech-bites, or consisted of simple linear inci- sions, and has but rarely been followed by secondary hemorrhage. To arrest bleeding from the dental alveoli after the extraction of teeth, which is often very difficult, the most effectual plan of treatment consists in applying a tampon saturated with perchloride of iron, and retaining it in place by a piece