228 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. The traumatic lesions of the heart consist of punctured and incised wounds; contusions, lacerations, and ruptures; and gunshot wounds. Formerly, punctured and incised wounds were most frequently met with; at present, however, the lesions from firearms are much more common. Of twenty cases which occurred in our army during a period of five years after the civil war, the patients in eighteen were wounded by firearms, and in two were stabbed with knives. Death occurs instantaneously in some of the cases. But, in most instances, a brief interval elapses before life is extinguished. When severe blows on the chest from falls, or from the kicks of animals, or from spent shot or large fragments of shells, rupture the heart without external wound, death almost always occurs on the spot. M. Terrillon, however, in an article on traumatic rupture of the heart, has presented a case in which the heart was ruptured by a fall, and the patient lived four hours; also the case of a man whose heart was ruptured from being kicked in the chest by a horse, and knocked backward, who was able to get up, put on his hat, and walk toward the stable, falling dead on the way.1 When, too, the heart is wounded by firearms, death does not always imme- diately follow. In the surgical history of the late civil war, four cases of this sort are recorded. In one of them the patient lived one hour and a quarter after a perforation of the right auricle and left ventricle by a conical pistol-ball; in another, the patient lived forty-six hours after a perforation of the left auricle and left ventricle by a pistol-ball, although the case was complicated by wounds of the abdomen and axilla; in still another instance the patient survived, for fourteen days, a wound of the right'auricle made by a round musket-ball; and in the fourth example, the patient survived, for two and a half years, a gunshot wound of the right auricle. This patient was a sharp-shooter, aged 42, wrho was wounded at Spottsylvania May 12, 1864, by a conoidal musket-ball, which entered his left breast and emerged from his left shoulder, passing completely through the left thorax, injuring the heart and left lung. On November 22, 1866, he very suddenly died. At the autopsy, the evidence of the original injury of the heart was found. On tracing the track of the ball a cicatrix was distinctly seen on the right auricle ; softening and rupture of the muscular tissue of the auricle had resulted, with almost instantaneous death.2 An important specimen illustrating a pistol-shot wound passing through the pericardium, the right ventricle, and the septum, together with the semi- lunar valve next the septum, into the aorta, with apparent recovery, was shown to the New York Pathological Society :3— A farm-hand, aged 18, was accidentally shot in the left breast July 7, 1878, with a small revolver (calibre T2^ inch). In less than a fortnight he was again at work, ap- parently well. He continued in good health, performing the ordinary labor of a farm- hand without inconvenience, until August 30, when he was found dead at his work behind a plough, fifty-four days after the accident. The autopsy showed that death had resulted from extravasation of blood into the pericardium and left pleura. The.missile was found in the left ventricle, lying behind a columna carnea. The track of the ball was found to be as stated above. The explanation of the lodgment of the ball is, that it encountered a well-filled left auricle, and, being spent, it dropped down through the left auriculo-ventricular opening to the place where it was found. The wound through the right ventricle was valvular, and the pericardium, healing quickly here, prevented the escape of blood. This finally rupturing, from over-distension, death ensued. With 1 Le Progres Medical, Mars 29 et Avril 5,1879 ; also American Journal of the Medical Sciences, October, 1879, pp. 566, 567. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., pp. 530, 531. * Medical Record, December 14, 1878.