NEUROTOMY AND NEURECTOMY. 639 considerably diminished in size, and the scaly epidermis had desquamated, leaving a soft and pliable skin. Sensation had returned in almost all the territory of the cut nerve, and the skin did not present any tendency to ulceration. Finally, section of all the nerves of the orbit (optico-ciliary neurotomy) has been extolled as a remedy for sympathetic ophthalmia. The efficacy of this operation is yet contested: while some, indeed, think it sufficient to arrest the development of symptoms as well as is done by enucleation, most oculists consider it only as a preventive operation, which should be done before the appearance of sympathetic ophthalmia, but to which it is not prudent to trust when once that affection is declared. If we now endeavor to sum up the respective indications of section and resection of nerves, we shall see that neurotomy should be employed for tetanus and convulsive neuroses—affections which necessitate only a tempo- rary interruption of the conductibility of the nerve—while neurectomy is to be preferred when it is desired to definitively abolish this conductibility, either to cure neuralgias or certain functional spasms, or in order to determine a permanent modification of the nutrition of tissues, as Morton did in the case of elephantiasis which has been quoted. The consequences of neurotomy and neurectomy are usually very simple as regards the wound of operation, and union by the first intention will be most often obtained if the antiseptic method be employed; it is, moreover, especially desirable in an operation of this kind, in order to avoid the forma- tion of a fibrous and retractile cicatricial tissue, capable of compressing the extremities of the nerves at any given moment, and of giving rise to new symptoms. Operative Manual.—I need only mention, as a matter of historical inte- rest, the subcutaneous section of nerves, which, at the present day, is almost universally condemned, and the few and questionable advantages of which are largely counterbalanced by the uncertainty of its result, which is usually incomplete. * It is then by means of an open wound that neurotomy must be done, with observance of antiseptic precautions, suited to render the operation as harmless as possible. The search for the nerve is made as in ligations of arteries, by taking as guides, lines of reference, muscular and osseous promi- nences, and the anatomical relations of the-nerve-trunks (accompanying arte- ries, etc.). Further assistance may be gained, moreover, in the living subject, if the patient has not been rendered insensible, by excitations ap- plied to the nerve, and by pressure exerted along its course. The rules suited for securing the discovery of each nerve-trunk in particular, have been traced by Letievant in his Traite des Sections Nerveuses. The operation includes the incision, the search for and isolation of the nerve, and finally its section. The latter is done with the bistoury or with scissors, which Letievant prefers, since the knife, he says, drags upon the nerve-trunk. When multiple sections are desired, as recommended by Tri- pier, it is necessary to dispose them in such a way as to interrupt all communi- cation with the diseased part while causing the least possible disturbance; this is done by carefully studying the painful points ( points douloureux), and by having an exact knowledge of the distribution and anastomoses of the different nerves. However, except in tetanus, where this author extols total neurotomy at the beginning of the disease, nothing requires all these sections to be made at the same time, and sometimes it is advantageous, on the contrary, to divide them between several operations (successive polyneurotomy).