ANEURISM. 406 sharp pain in the limb, and by a sense of giddiness, faintness, and sometimes sickness. The pain in the part beyond increases, and then passes into severe tingling and heat, culminating in numbness and entire uselessness, closely simulating paralysis; indeed, the muscular helplessness may sometimes be combined with paralysis. The tumor ceases to pulsate, and the artery beyond to beat, the limb becoming cold and bloodless in some cases, while in others it is blue and gorged with venous blood. Gangrene is often imminent, and, doubtless, would more often supervene, if such conditions were not, as a very general rule, judiciously treated by covering and sufficient warmth. Many of these symptoms are common both to impaction and to rupture; the point of difference is chiefly to be found in the absence of swelling, and in the more or less gradual subsidence of the painful and even alarming phenomena. Rupture of an Aneurism occasionally, though rarely, leads to a spon- taneous cure. I saw, six years ago, a case which I am sure was one of rup- tured popliteal aneurism, the consolidated blood compressing the artery and causing its obliteration, though not suddenly or rapidly; indeed, I was for three weeks ready at any moment to amputate the gentleman’s thigh, and he was prepared to submit; but he got well after the fashion about to be de- scribed. When an external aneurism bursts, the blood is effused into the tissues, and unless the limb be removed, or the rupture be very small, the patient frequently succumbs -with the symptoms described at p. 400. But occasionally, as at that place was noted, the blood becomes encapsuled, partly by its own coagu- lum, partly by inflammatory thickening of adjacent parts. If the effusion have from the first been limited to a small spot by fascia, if the thickening be considerable, and if a proper amount of support be given by bandage or otherwise, the vessel becomes to a certain degree compressed, and, especially in a case so old that pretty large collateral branches have already been formed, may be obliterated. The patient having passed through a very imminent danger, very rapidly becomes a sound man again. This at least is the process which I believed I could follow in the case above alluded to. But having no anatomical fact to prove it, I would rather quote a very similar one—save that the patient suffered relapse—viz., Case XVIII. in Hodgson’s work:1— Case X A gentleman, about thirty years of age, after a day’s hunting, felt a pain in his thigh, which he considered as rheumatic. A month afterwards he perceived a small, fluctuating tumor in the course of the femoral artery, about four inches below Poupart’s ligament. The tumor increased, and the leg and thigh became cedematous. He was bled copiously, and restricted to a low diet. Compresses were applied above the tumor, in the course of the femoral artery, as high as Poupart’s ligament, and the limb was rolled equably and tightly from the foot to the groin. The application of the roller increased the pain, and he suffered much from fever. This plan was continued for some months, when, on a sudden, the whole limb became extremely cold and benumbed, the tumor and upper part of the thigh put on a livid appearance, and serious apprehensions were entertained for the safety of the limb, which was hourly expected to become gangrenous. On the morning after this alarm, the pulsation in the tumor had ceased, but the livid color and the defect of circulation continued. The pain had abated, the fever was less, and the warmth of the limb began to return,and the size of tumor to diminish. From this time the patient continued to recover, but it was long before the limb regained its natural sensation, or the oedema subsided. At the end of six months he suffered no inconvenience from the remains of the disease, except that the upper part of the thigh was four inches larger in circumference than the opposite limb in the same situation. In this state he remained twelve years, when the swelling began to enlarge, and was attacked with a dull pain after violent exercise. 1 The author gives it as a cure by pressure of an aneurism on its own vessel, a manifest error.