ANEURISM OF ARCH OF AORTA. 527 (5) Another symptom is irregularity of the pupils, either dilatation or con- traction, from irritation, and afterwards impeded function, of the sympathetic, and perhaps also of the vagus. (6) Displacement of the heart downward and to the left, and certain pains in the depths and at the back of the chest, afford valuable though somewhat negative data for diagnosis. (7) One of the most important symptoms is produced by pressure on the veins, causing congestion of different parts, often a doughy lump over one or both clavicles, and oedema about the face or arms. The significance of the localities of congestion depends in great measure upon their relation to other pressure symptoms. Certain combinations furnish remarkably positive evi- dence. For instance: pressure wholly and entirely on the right bronchus; congestion of both arms and both sides of the head and chest; tumor symp- toms, chiefly about the second space and rib, considerably to the right of the sternum; heart displacement, if any, directly outward; the pulses equal, with very slight sphygmographic change—perhaps a rather sloping upstroke, usually a flat, blunt apex, absence partial or total of dicrotic wave, but undu- latory character of whole down-line—indicate disease of the ascending aorta. Congestion of the left arm, supraclavicular region, and side of the head; aneurismal character of right pulse (radial and carotid); tumor symptoms a little to the right of the sternum, and probably some tracheal dyspnoea, am symptomatic of aorto-innominate aneurism. Modification of left radial pulse; affection of left vocal cord; left venous congestion; tracheal dyspnoea and obstruction of air to both lungs, with tumor symptoms on and to the left of the median line, mark disease of the transverse aorta. Obstruction to the •entrance of air to the left lung alone, with pains at the back and along the intercostals, is indicative of disease of the third part of the arch. It is unnecessary to multiply these examples, which must be taken as indicating simply the broader lines of diagnosis. Treatment of Aneurisms of the Aortic Arch.—A certain number of patients suf- fering from aortic-arch aneurism have undoubtedly got well under treatment by rest and medicines. These cases, however, are but few; the great majority of these patients either receive no benefit or quickly relapse. Hence every such case should be sedulously watched, that failure of treatment may at once be recognized. Especially should the commencement of pressure on the air- tubes be carefully observed, because increasing dyspnoea is not only a sign that the aneurism is becoming larger, but shows that the rest treatment is no longer possible. There can be no repose for one who is now and again convulsed with violent cough, and whose every breath is labor. Moreover, as my late lamented friend, Dr. Pearson Irvine, conclusively showed, partial occlusion of the windpipe brings on a certain form of pulmonary disease, chiefly due to obstruction in the exit of air.1 This disease of itself would destroy life, even if the aneurism could be cured. Therefore any considerable difficulty of breathing should be a strong inducement to operation, unless the circum- stances be unfavorable. We should, however, have clear rules for guidance as to which cases will, and which will not, benefit by such treatment. Furthermore, we have to discriminate between the suitability of two operations, namely, that on the left, and that on the right side of the neck. In order, therefore, to save space and time, I will put in the form of a summary the conditions which should guide us in our choice. It must, of course, be understood that only the principal, not the minuter points, can be thus summarized, and that in Pathological Transactions, vol. xxviii. p. 67.