416 ANEURISM. but may, as Dr. Poore1 has pointed out, be somewhat narcotized by the hypodermic use of morphia. The needles, and I myself prefer to employ both, should be oiled and inserted with a quick but not strong thrust, and when non-contact of the two within the tumor has been verified, the battery is to be connected. The effect on the pulse and vital powers must be watched, and, unless- untoward appearances arise, the use of galvanism may be con- tinued for One or even for two hours, provided that no redness appear around the punctures. If both poles have been inserted, the unguarded end of the positive needle will have been almost entirely dissolved away in the time above given, if the action have been sufficiently strong. Removal of the needles must be effected with great gentleness, so as to disturb as little as possible any clot that may have formed upon them, and so as to avoid also any rending which might be produced by the needle-point, which will possi- bly have been roughened by the solvent action of the galvanic current. The immediate result is nearly always a certain increase in the hardness of the tumor, and a certain diminution of the pulsation ; or at least this feels more distant. The next thing is nearly ahvays that these apparently favorable signs disappear. The clot, if any, which is formed by the galvanic current, is usually as evanescent as the will o’ the wisp. Ciniselli gives the following table :2— Aneurism of Aorta, Innominate, Carotid, and Subclavian, External Iliac, .... Femoral, Popliteal, and Brachial, . Smaller Vessels, .... No. of Cases. Cures. Deaths. 37 6 3 13 3 6 2 10 26 16 3 8 6 0 Total, 86 32 12 a table which I confess to regarding with considerable doubt, not as to the veracity and good faith of the author, but as to the interpretation of the re- sults. I do so because of five patients whose cases are recorded in a later communication,3 three did not even seem to have been benefited, one did so seem for a few days, one went from care, apparently much benefited, but re- turned within a month, and died almost immediately from asphyxia. Still more recently,4 Dujardin-Beaumetz, in relating to the Societe Chirurgicale a case of aortic aneurism which he had treated unsuccessfully by galvano- puncture, quoted a letter received from Ciniselli, whence the following sta- tistics are extracted. Of 29 cases, in 11 the relative improvement had lasted 4 years, 37, 33, 21, 17,16, 7, 7, 6, 4, 1, months. In 7 others it had lasted 28,16, 12, 8, 6, 3, 3, months, and still continued. In 11, there had been no improvement. Experience in other countries has been less favorable, as shown, for in- stance, by the table given by Dr. Poore :5— Aneurism of Thoracic Aorta, Innominate, Subclavian, 3d Part, Ulnar, Femoral,6 1 Electricity in Medicine and Surgery, p. 253. 2 Sulla elettro-puntura nella cura degli Aneurismi. 3 Sopra alcune Aneurismi della Aorta toracica osservate dopo il 1870. « Union Medicale, No. 136, 1877. 5 Op. cit., p. 253. 6 This case having been treated by pressure combined with electro-puncture, renders it doubt- ful to which the cure is due. No. of Cases. Cures. Deaths. 8 0 8 10 1 . 1 benefit. 0 10 0 110