295 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. arises about one-fourth of an inch above the superior thyroid, almost facing the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It ascends obliquely above the level of the latter, then curves abruptly downward and inward, and, passing under- neath the outer margin of the hyoglossus muscle, runs parallel with and near to the great cornu of the os hyoides ; finally, ascending to the under surface of the tongue, it runs forward in a serpentine course to the tip, under the name of the ranine artery, and terminates by inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side. The hyoglossus muscle, underneath which the lingual artery passes, sepa- rates it into three portions or surgical divisions, the first being posterior to that muscle, the second beneath it, and the third anterior to it—that is, ex- tending from the anterior margin of the hyoglossus to the tip of the tongue. All its branches, the hyoid, the dorsalis lingua, and the sublingual, are given off in the second part of its course. The second part or division of the artery, that is, the portion under the hyoglossus muscle, is the part which has uni- formly been chosen for deligation. It is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep fascia, the inferior border of the submaxillary gland, a second fold of the deep fascia which extends beneath the gland and completes its capsule, the facial, superficial lingual, and pharyngeal veins, the stylo-hyoid and digastric mus- cles, the hypoglossal nerve, and the hyoglossus muscle. It rests upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and runs along about one line above and parallel to the great cornu of the hyoid bone. To expose this portion (that is, the second) of the lingual artery, there are three important guides, namely, the glistening pulley of the digastric tendon, the great cornu of tire os hy- oides, and the hypoglossal nerve ; the first two lie immediately below and in front of the artery, the last, immediately above and in front of it, and all three are separated from it by the hyoglossus muscle. Operation.—Place the patient on his back, with his head turned a little to the opposite side and well extended, so as to amplify the space between the hyoid bone and the base of the jaw. Ascertain the position of the great cornu of the os hyoides ; then begin the tegumentary incision at the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, half an inch above a point opposite to the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid, and, continuing it forward and somewhat downward so as to give it a slight curve with the convexity below, terminate it three-fourths of an inch short of the median line, and half an inch below the base of the jaw (Fig. 475). The head must be rigidly main- tained in the same position throughout the operation. Any material change of position, especially flexion, will alter every detail of the procedure. The incisions should all be made in a forward direction, that is, away from the great bloodvessels of the neck, which lie near the posterior end of the wound. The skin, platysma myoides, and the connective and adipose tissue being divided, the first layer of the deep fascia, or the anterior part of the capsule of the submaxillary gland, will appear. Divide it on a grooved director, and the gland will be exposed. 'With a finger, or the handle of a scalpel, detach the gland from its deep connections, and draw it upward over the jaw wTith a blunt hook, taking great care that the facial artery and vein, which pass through its substance, are not injured. Divide the portion of the deep fascia constituting the posterior part of the capsule of the gland, and the white shining aponeurosis which loops the digastric tendon to the great cornu of the os hyoides will be exposed, and, likewise, the insertion of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Immediately below them the hypoglossal nerve, accompanied by the lingual vein, will appear, three lines above the cornu of the hyoid, and run- ning across the hyoglossus muscle, forward and upward, toward the middle of the jaw. Detach the nerve somewhat from the hyoglossus muscle by