DISLOCATION OF THE ACROMIAL END OF THE CLAVICLE. 657 backward, or the outward movement alone may return the bone to place. The manipulations resemble those adopted for the other dislocations of the inper end of this bone, except that direct pressure, when used at all, must be applied to the sternum and not to the clavicle. It has been found impossible in certain cases to accomplish reduction. Should this happen, and should there exist no obstruction to the respiration, to deglutition, or to the circulation of the arm, the surgeon may deem it best to leave the parts as he finds them, and may expect a nearly perfect restora- tion of the functions of the arm and shoulder. But when life is threatened by any dangerous symptom, or when, in the case of a young girl, it is deemed very important to prevent unsightly deformity, resolute measures must be resorted to. The overlying tissues may be divided, and the bone seized with lion-jawed forceps near its sternal end, so firmly that it can be drawn into place at the same time that assistants are drawing the shoulder outward and backward. Antisepticallv performed, this operation would be almost without risk, and it might, like the subcutaneous section of ligaments in other regions, offer the only chance of success. The employment of a wire suture to unite the two bones, Unless the dislocation be compound, is not to be recommended. When, to relieve respiration or other vital function, the removal of the head of the bone from its position is a necessity, and other means have failed, the authorities recommend nothing less severe than excision of the sternal end of the clavicle, with due precautions against injury to the vessels beneath it. I am strongly of the opinion, however, that there could be no case of this sort which might not be relieved by dividing the clavicle with a chain-saw or bone-forceps near the junction of its inner and middle thirds, reducing the inner fragment by the help of the lion-jawed forceps, and treating the case afterward as a compound fracture, with the usual antiseptic precautions. If none of the vital functions were interfered with, neither excision nor division of the bone would be justifiable. The after-treatment, when none of these severe measures have been resorted to, consists mainly in keeping the patient recumbent upon his back, the shoulders bent backward across an elevated cushion which is placed between them. Of course, care must be taken that no bands or compresses are allowed to rest upon the front of the clavicle, as these would tend to force the bone again from its articulating facet. Where cutting operations have been practised, the after-treatment is in principle the same, care being taken that the additional dressings used are not such as to cause backward pressure on the bone. After leaving his bed, the patient, for a week or two, should wear some dressing which will keep the shoulders drawn outward and immovable, and give rest to the muscles of the arm and chest. The axillary pad, with the elbow slightly elevated and drawn against the body by bandages or strong adhesive bands, will accomplish this end. From four to six weeks are required for the adhesions to become strong after rupture of these ligaments. II. Dislocation of the Acromial End of the Clavicle. Surgical authors place all the varieties of this dislocation under two forms, the upward and the downward dislocations of the outer end. Upward Dislocation of Acromial End of Clavicle.—Causes.—In almost every recorded instance of this accident, the luxation has been caused by the scapula having been wedged or jammed inwards, so as to drive it beneath the overriding, outer end, thus tearing apart, the ligaments of the clavicle which bind that bone to the acromion process. It is caused, therefore, by vol. hi.—42