511 TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS AT ROOT OF NECK. I find this mode of treatment noted five times in the Hospital Reports of the last ten years, and each time as unsuccessful; while of the five eases quoted by Poland, in only one was it of avail.1 Parenchymatous injections of ergotin appeared to he of decided benefit in the case of Dutoit, the cure being confirmed by distal pressure.2 The case, as I read it, was one of fusiform dilatation of the left subclavian, just before it passes between the scaleni. Dutoit used large doses, beginning with half a grain, and rapidly increasing to three grains. After the fourth injection, the tumor began to diminish, while the surrounding tissues became exceedingly hard. After about three weeks, distal digital pressure became possible, and was used during six days—in all twenty-one hours. The aneurism became solid. But three more injections, and then an India-rubber pad and bandage, were em- ployed. The treatment occupied five months. This case gives the most potent evidence on record that such injections may be valuable. In Langenbeck’s case, that which laid the foundation of this treatment, the ultimate benefit was doubtful. I find no other instance of advantage derived from this plan; but it has very frequently been used without any good result. Injection into the sac of perchloride of iron has not proved beneficial, and its dangers are very great, since it is impossible to obviate the flow of solid or semi-solid blood-clots along the vertebrals. Temporary ligature and acupressure have proved even more surely productive of secondary hemorrhage than has permanent deligation. These plans were tried by Porter and Bickersteth, and will be referred to in the sequel. Amputation at the shoulder joint was suggested and practised by Mr. Spence,3 and the method has since been adopted by Holden,4 Heath (who, after ampu- tating, also thrust needles into the sac),5 H. Smith, Rose, and Bellamy.6 Mr. Spence’s patient seems never to have quite lost pulsation in the aneurism, though he survived four years. Rose also tied the carotid, and thus succeeded in curing his patient. In the other cases the procedure was unat- tended by any benefit.7 The results of these methods may thus be tabulated:— Treatment. No. of cases. Cure by treatment. Coincident cure. Death or no benefit. Doubtful cases. Rest and diet 31 2 2 27 Valsalva’s method .... 13 1 2 7 3 Proximal pressure8 .... 1 1 Direct pressure .... ? 1 Manipulation ..... 8 1 6 1 Coagulating injection 2 2 Injection of ergot8 .... 6 i 4 1 Gralvano-puncture .... 3 l 2 Temporary ligature .... 2 2 Amputation at shoulder-joint . 7 29 5 1 Fergusson’s second case cannot Re regarded as cured by the manipulation. 2 Langenbeck’s Archiv, Bd. xii. S. 1070. 3 Spence, Med.-Chir. Trans, vol. lii. p. 306. * St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. xiii. 5 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. lxiii. p. 65. 6 Unpublished. A case of ruptured artery after dislocation reduced by another surgeon. In the engorged condition the artery could not readily be found. 7 In Morton’s case (Pennsylvania Hospital Reports, 1868), amputation of the arm and subse- quent removal of the caput humeri, were undertaken for secondary hemorrhage after deligation of the second part of the artery, rather than for subclavion aneurism ; the man recovered. 8 I have placed the case of Dutoit among the successes by injection of ergot, and also by proxi- mal pressure ; he insists upon this latter, but I do not understand how it was applied. 9 One of these cases (Morton’s), referred to a few lines ago, was hardly an amputation for aneurism. Spence’s patient lived, but the aneurism was not cured.