180 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. was very much swelled and inflamed up to the knee. No tibial pulse could be felt at the ankle. He had much constitutional disturbance, and was very restless. The ice- dressing was applied to his leg ; nutrients and tonics were administered. June 6—Leg still more swelled, and beginning to mortify in spots ; constitutional state worse, and there is irritative fever of a low type. Amputation being the only resource left, it was without delay performed at the lower third of the thigh, under ether, by the circular method. The shock was moderate, and the patient reacted promptly. Examination of the amputated member showed the posterior tibial artery divided by the bullet. The operation afforded much relief until June 10, when the flaps began to slough. He then sank into a so-called typhoid condition. June 15 (evening)—He had a pysemic chill, after which he sweat profusely. June 16—He had two rigors, and the sweats con- tinued. His countenance had become sallow, and he was delirious. In the evening he died. The autopsy revealed the lesions belonging to gangrenous osteo-myelitis and pytemia, a description of which want of space excludes. Lieutenant-Colonel W. G. Delaney, a prisoner of war, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under my care, September 25, 1863, having been wounded on the 23d by a conical musket-ball, which entered his left leg on the outer side, about two inches below the head of the fibula, fractured that bone with comminution, and emerged, after crossing the track of the posterior tibial artery a short distance below its origin. The casualty was attended with considerable hemorrhage, but this ceased spontaneously, and did not return. When admitted, the patient had considerable fever of an irritative type, some cedematous swelling of the leg, and no pulsation in the posterior tibial artery at the ankle. The swelling of the leg increased, and gangrene ensued, but the patient’s general condition was so bad as not to warrant the performance of amputation. On Oct. 2 he died. The autopsy showed the posterior tibial artery to have been completely divided by the bullet, about one inch below its origin at the bifurcation of the popliteal; there was fracture of the fibula with considerable comminution. No line of separation had been formed. Wounds inflicted by cylindro-conoidal musket-balls which sever the pos- terior tibial artery in the upper third of the leg, are often, perhaps generally, attended with consecutive gangrene. The reason is twofold: first, the divi- sion of the artery cuts off the supply of blood which is needed by certain parts of the limb. Secondly, the inflammatory swelling attending such wounds is always great, especially when the arterial wound is complicated with fracture. This swelling involves the tissues which are covered or bound down by the deep fascia of the leg, as well as those external to it. As this fascia is very strong, and cannot give way, the inflammatory tumefac- tion beneath it compresses the anastomosing branches to such extent, and with such force, that a collateral circulation cannot be established, and thus the parts below perish from want of nutrient blood. Wounds such as these demand that amputation at the knee-joint shall be performed either primarily, or as soon as gangrene presents itself in the toes or foot. If the operation be delayed after the appearance of gangrene, the risk of septicaemia will be correspondingly increased. In the following example, the axillary artery was divided by a cylindro conoidal musket-ball; the hemorrhage was not troublesome, but gangrene of the hand, forearm, and arm ensued, and destroyed the patient Private T. H. Hudson, a prisoner of war, aged 21, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under my care, May 18, 1864, having received two wounds from minie- balls at Spottsylvania, Ya., on the 11th. One of them entered his left shoulder from behind, and escaped in front a little way below the claviclej having crossed the course of the axillary artery. The other penetrated his right hip near the sacrum, and emerged in front near the right groin. The hemorrhage was not troublesome from either wound. On admission, the patient’s condition was good, and his wounds looked well. It was observed that there was no brachial nor radial pulse on the left side, and it was supposed that the left axillary artery had been severed. May 22—The wounds