GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 735 when opened, is found to be a mere bag of bony gravel, whose fragments are numbered by hundreds, and whose continued presence in the wound generally makes death certain; such is the typical gunshot fracture of the knee. Of course, however, there are a few slighter cases in which the border only of the joint is notched, and which, the injury to the bone being slight, are less desperate than others. War furnishes great numbers of wounded knees, and,'where skirmishing in forests is common, the right limb is usually the one struck, on account of the left one being so commonly sheltered behind the trees from which the skirmisher fires, exposing only his head with his right ami and leg. The shock which attends wounds in the knee is less grave than represented by some authors, and is very much less than that experienced in commi- nuted gunshot fractures of the shaft of the femur. Few patients die from collapse, though great numbers perish from the later consequences of the injury. The history in typical cases, left to themselves, is as follows: There is almost no hemorrhage. The openings made by the bullet are closed to such an extent that the fluids find no free outlet. The joint, filled with hundreds of bits of dead bone and cartilage, becomes violently inflamed, and distended with pus, blood, and serum, in a state of advanced putridity. This virulent, septic fluid is retained under pressure, and absorbed into the opened, venous channels of the fractured, bony surfaces, thus producing septicaemia or pyaemia. From the supra-patellar segment of the joint-sac, the poisonous fluid escapes through the natural opening, so often present, into the great bursa above the joint, setting up septic abscesses which burrow the whole length of the thigh. Worn out by inflammation, pain, and blood-poisoning, the patient succumbs, in most instances, either to septic complications or to general exhaustion. Treatment.—There are three possible modes of treatment for this terrible injury:— (1) Conservative treatment. (2) Excision of the knee-joint. (3) Amputation at the lower third of the thigh. The following tables give the statistics of the subject:— Gunshot Fractures of the Knee treated without Operation. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Circular No. 6, S. G. 0. (Otis) Deutsche Zeitsch. f. Chir., Band 2, S. 106. (Franco-German War) 308 258 34 24 St. Petersburger med. Woclienschrift, 9 Marz, 1878. (Dr. Reyher, Army of Caucasus, Russo-Turkish War) ..... 92 70 Mortality of conservative treatment, 80 per cent. 434 352 Chisolm, of the Confederate Army, gives 201 cases of gunshot fracture of the knee-joint treated without operation, and with a mortality of only 60 per cent., which is 13 per cent, less than the mortality of amputation for the same injury. This is so widely at variance with the experience of the rest of the world that I hesitate to accept his figures, and have not included them in the table.