667 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. in the axilla, and with the ball of the other against the acromion process, being careful that the foot above the shoulder does not encroach upon the space which will be required for the head of the bone when about to slip into its socket. He then proceeds to make steady and gentle extension. The upper, untorn part of the capsule in this position offers no resistance; but, on the contrary, aids in reduction when the head of the humerus has been 'well drawn outward, by pulling the glenoid cavity downward toward it. This tilting of the scapula is an important element in the reduction, and may he greatly aided by the foot upon the acromion, also giving it a down- ward movement at the proper moment. In a large majority, perhaps nine-tenths, of the cases met with, this simple manoeuvre will bring about reduction at the first attempt, and with very slight force of traction-—less, indeed, than is required in any other method with which I am acquainted. Increased power of traction for older or more difficult cases is best obtained by means of a clove-hitch applied above the elbow, and a “jack towel” passed across the surgeon’s shoulders. Second Method.—Let the patient be placed in a sitting posture, without an anaesthetic, and a strong sheet be passed around the body just below the axilla, for counter-extension, and held by assistants upon the opposite side. This may be kept from slipping downward by means of a small strap over the shoul- der. Other assistants make extension upon the dislocated limb at right angles to the body, the surgeon manipulating with his hands the scapula and humerus so as to make the articular surfaces approach each other. This method was a favorite with the older sur- geons, but, since the introduction of anaesthe- tics, has been less in vogue, since the raising of an anaesthetized patient to a sitting posture would be a dangerous and unwarrantable act. Instead of the sheet for counter-extension, Dr. H. R. Smith, of Baltimore, was accus- tomed to make traction upon the opposite wrist. In principle, these methods of counter- extension are the same. "While assistants are making traction, the surgeon may help the reduction in obstinate cases by having a band passed beneath the humerus near its upper end, with which he helps to draw the bone outward and upward. In cases of difficulty it is allowable, after the failure of milder efforts, to make manipulations for the purpose of breaking further the fibres of the ligaments, and enlarging the narrow “ button-hole” opening in the capsule. This is done by combining with the traction forcible rotation in a right and left direction, using force enough to only slightly lacerate the ligamentous bands, and to give a freer space for returning the bone to its articulation. Third Method.—-Another method has long been known among surgeons as “ Cooper’s method.” It consists of downward extension, with the heel in the axilla, somewhat as in the plan first described, except that the surgeon places himself in a position parallel to the axis of the patient’s body, and pulls downward, using at the same time the leverage of the shaft of the bone, to pry the head outward over the foot as a sort of fulcrum. This method is the least economical of force, but, on account of the mov- able condition of the scapula, which allows it to be dragged around by the tension exerted at the upper edge of the glenoid cavity, very good results Fig. 557. Direct reposition of dislocated humerus.