619 TETANUS. the mouth or by the rectum, or may he introduced directly into the veins. Administration by the mouth should be preferred, as long as it is possible and sufficient, and we should always begin in this way. Chloral should be given by grammes until muscular relaxation and sleep are obtained, and its action should be kept up with care for quite a long time, only permitting the patient to awake in order to take food. The time during which this mode of treatment should he employed, is a matter for experiment, varying in each case. It may he said, however, that chloral has been administered more than a month without producing gastro-enteritis. There are some patients, however, in whom this medicine determines vomiting; then, as when dysphagia is very marked, it is necessary to give the drug by the rectum in the same doses. It is only when administration by the mouth or rectum is not borne, or when the effect is not sufficient notwithstanding the use of quite large doses, that another plan may be resorted to—intra-venous injection—chloral being too caustic to be employed with advantage hypoder- mically. Particularly extolled by Ore, of Bordeaux, intra-venous injections of chloral are advised by surgeons of authority. The action of chloral used in this way is more rapid and more durable than when employed otherwise. It has been objected to this method, that it exposes to accidents, and espe- cially to the formation of clots, but these may be avoided by being very careful in performing the operation. Ore advises the employment of a very slender trocar and a syringe with well-graduated piston, provided with a fine strainer, in order to arrest little foreign bodies ; the vein must be opened by a direct puncture, after having been made prominent by a circular ligature placed around the limb; the trocar is next withdrawn; the syringe is adjusted to the canula, after a few drops of blood have flowed; and a solution con- taining 9 grammes (gr. cxl) of chloral in 10 grammes (fSiis) of water, with a few drops of a ten-per-cent, solution of carbonate of sodium is slowly thrown into the vein. Eight grammes (f^ij) of the solution may be injected each time, if there is no accident, and one or two injections at most are given in the 24 hours. An induction battery should he at hand, in case of syncope. Opium,, morphia, and laudanum begin by congesting the spinal cord, and have no effect agaiust tetanus except in very large doses, at the price of serious digestive disturbances. Therefore, according to some authors, they should be absolutely banished from the therapeutics of tetanus; others, on the con- trary, recommend them when chloral does not succeed. There are, further, extolled as remedies against tetanus, with the object of modifying the nerve centres, a host of medicines, of which I shall only name the chief: Belladonna and atropia, which lessen congestion of the nerve-centres, and may serve as adjuvants to a more active method ; Ergot, which indeed acts upon the vessels of the spinal cord, but may determine gangrene ; Calabar bean and its alkaloid eserina—1 to 4 milligrammes (gr. to A-) by subcutaneous injection—which causes a temporary relaxation, perhaps by acting directly upon the muscles ; Bromide of potassium, which, in order to act, must he employed in dangerous doses; Chloroform and ether, by inhalation, which may cause death during the period of excitement, and which necessitate, on the part of the physician, continual attention, rendering their employment not practical—it is the same with nitrite of amyl, the effects of which are yet incompletely known ; the continued currents, which have only a temporary action, and upon the employ- ment of which there is, moreover, a difference of opinion, Le Fort and Ver- neuil recommending ascending currents, and Legros and Onimus, and Du- brueil, on the contrary, descending currents. There have been extolled, moreover, hemlock, tobacco, nicotine, aconite, salicylic acid, cannabis indica^ alcohol in large doses, etc. I may further mention diaphoretics, which consti- tute a good complement of treatment, and particularly steam baths, provided