264 INJUKIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Intermediary hemorrhages in general are obviously connected with in- creased vascular action, and result from the increased force with which the blood is driven through the arteries, during the period of reaction and inflam- matory irritation that follows the “ shock” of severe wounds, and the depres- sion of profuse primary hemorrhage. During at least three or four days after the infliction of such wounds, it is always possible for a return of the hemorrhage to be effected by the violent reaction or excitement of the vascular system driving out the occluding coagula and forcing open the con- tracted orifices of the wounded arteries. The following example affords a good illustration of the intermediary as well as of the primary and secondary forms of traumatic hemorrhage:— A temperate and healthy young man, aged 21, accidentally received in his right armpit the charge of one of the barrels of a bird-gun, loaded with pheasant shot, which produced “ an enormous burnt wound in the centre of the axilla, with blackened and burnt edges, passing up along the course of the vessels toward the coracoid process. The powder, wadding, and shot had all been driven into the wound, and the physicians hoped, therefore, that the contusion of the surfaces, in addition to the coagulation, would enable them to prevent a return of the hemorrhage by the pressure of compresses and bandages.” It should be stated that the infliction of the wound, had been imme- diately followed by “an enormous hemorrhage,” that he had fallen “into complete syn- cope at the door-step of his father’s house,” and that “ the discharge had entirely ceased under fainting.” “ About thirty hours afterward, however, a severe hemorrhage returned from the wound in consequence of vascular reaction forcing off the coagula from the torn vessels. He fainted again almost unto death, and remained several hours exceedingly prostrate, during which period [McClellan] was first called in consultation. As large tents well Graduated in the form of compresses had been forced into the wound with styptics, to the total suppression of the hemorrhage,” McClellan did not interfere. “ The case progressed very well after that for ten entire days, when, on turning over in his bed at night, a tremendous hemorrhage broke out again. He fainted, and they were able to suppress the bleeding until [McClellan] arrived and secured the subclavian artery just above the upper verge of the inflammatory swelling and engorgement. The sloughs of dead cellular tissue, and shot, and wadding, afterward came away through the original wound in the axilla, along with the suppuration, and the patient got well with a good use of his arm.”1 In this case the primary hemorrhage ceased on the occurrence of syncope; and the wound appears to have been dressed with compresses, retained in place by applying a roller bandage. Nevertheless, the blood coagulating in the wound did not succeed in effectually plugging up the open mouths of the injured arteries; wherefore it happened thirty hours afterward, when re- action supervened, that the increased blood-pressure, or the increased force of the circulation, drove out the plugs of coagula and started the bleeding afresh, thereby causing an intermediary hemorrhage of a most profuse character, which, however, again ceased on the occurrence of syncope, and was after- ward held in check by strong compression. Finally, when suppuration was fully established in the wound, and the sloughing tissues had begun to separate, secondary hemorrhage ensued, which, however, was suppressed by deligation of the subclavian artery, with probably a continuance of the local pressure; and the young man had the good fortune to recover with a useful arm. But intermediary hemorrhage sometimes takes place from the great arte- ries of the trunk, as happened in the following instance, which occurred during the late civil war:— 1 McClellan, op. cit., p. 191, footnote.