VASCULAR TUMORS, 353 vessels, and back to the origins of its superior articular branches, and the only chance of collateral circulation was through the anastomotica magna of the superficial femoral, together with the recurrent tibial and a muscular branch from the upper part of the popliteal. The circulation through these was perfect and sufficient. The thrombus formed under such conditions differs from the organized thrombus at the seat of a ligature, inasmuch as the passing blood-current furnishes fibrin-making white corpuscles with accompanying fibrin-deposit in the one, while this cannot occur after a ligature is applied. The detachment of particles of thrombi (emboli) and the accidents resulting therefrom do not fall within the province of this article. They are fully dis- cussed in the articles on pyaemia, gangrene, etc. The causes of thrombosis may be summed up as follows: (1) Occlusion of the vessel as by a ligature. (2) Inflammation of the intima (arteritis). (3) Dilatation of the vessels (as in aneurism). (4) An abnormal condition of the blood. (5) Heart failure. (6) Harrowing of the calibre of an artery by pressure. Vascular Tumors. We may recognize six varieties of vascular tumor, apart from true aneu- rism. These are: (I) Arterial varix; (2) Cirsoid arterial tumor, or cirsoid aneurism; (3) Arterial cutaneous tumor; (4) Capillary cutaneous tumor; (5) Venous cutaneous tumor (these three varieties are usually classed toge- ther under the name of angeiomata); and (6) Venous varix, or simply varix (varicose vein). Arterial Varix may be defined as a dilatation and elongation of an artery of the second magnitude (as the external iliac or common carotid), of the third (as the external carotid or posterior tibial), or of the fourth (as the temporal, facial, superior thyroid, or palmar branches of the radial and ulnar). Cruveilhier has reported a case of arterial varix of the external iliac artery. I have made one dissection of arterial varix of the superior thyroid artery, in which this vessel was greatly elongated, and as large as the exter- nal or internal carotid. It was tortuous, but not sacculated, the dilatation being general. Tillaux1 reports a case of cirsoid aneurism of the hand with dilatation of the arteries of the forearm and humeral region. Treatment.—Arterial varix may be treated by compression, or by the liga- ture, when such a procedure becomes necessary. In a case which I saw after the patient’s death, and in which the superior thyroid artery was involved, the ligature would have been advisable. The artery was in a healthy con- dition, with the exception of its increased length and calibre. When connected with cirsoid arterial tumors, the solidification of these by ligature, cautery, or injection, will usually cure or palliate the arterial varix. Cirsoid Arterial Tumor, or Cirsoid Aneurism.—The Cirsoid Arterial Tu- mor, I would define, after Robin and Gosselin, as being an elongation and dilatation of the terminal subcutaneous arterioles (normally of a diameter of about -fa of an inch). These tumors may be general or circumscribed. A single arteriole may be affected, as shown in a drawing in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, copied in Holmes’s System of Surgery, or many arterioles may be involved, as hi Mussey’s remarkable case, and in othei’S included in the accompanying table (page 358). 1 Gaz. des Hopitaux, 1882, p. 1083. VOL. III.—23