LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 153 the arm without effect. Five weeks subsequently he was bled to the amount of twenty- four ounces, under Gibson’s direction, and attempts at reduction were made, first with pulleys, then with five or six assistants; but, the patient becoming faint, these efforts were discontinued. Already a considerable axillary swelling was apparent, when, after two slight rotary movements, the head of the humerus suddenly slipped into its place. But the artery having been torn across, the swelling rapidly increased, the patient became blanched, and died some hours after the operation. On autopsy, the axillary artery was found torn directly across and separated from its connections, and there was a great quantity of coagulum in the axilla.1 Delpeeh’s case of the mayor of Mines belongs to the same category: While he was reducing a luxation of the arm, in this case, the extension was made hy six assistants; at the moment of reduction, the patient turned pale, lost consciousness, and did not recover it; he was dead. The cause of death was rupture of the axillary artery, according to M. Riga!, who was* one of the six assistants, and mentioned the fact to Malgaigne.2 The axillary region is capacious, its connective tissue very loose, and, therefore, when the axillary artery is opened subcutaneously, blood may be effused with great rapidity, and in great quantity; and this concealed hemorrhage may, if disregarded, and if the patient be kept in an upright posture, readily prove fatal. Professor Lister has had a case where concealed hemorrhage of this sort occurred, and the accident proved quickly fatal:— A man, aged 58, had dislocation of the shoulder, of seven or eight weeks’ standing. Reduction was attempted by manipulation, and subsequently by pulleys, no undue force being exerted by either method. During the attempt a sharp crack was heard; a swelling appeared on the dorsal and posterior part of the scapula, which ultimately reached the size of an adult’s head ; it was due to a rupture of the axillary artery, with extravasation of blood into the surrounding structures. Without hesitation, Professor Lister cut down on the spot, and searched for the ruptured vessel. An aper- ture was found in the posterior part of the axillary artery, and a ligature was applied on each side of it. The patient rallied, but died about three hours afterwards. Necroscopy showed that the humerus had a small spiculum of bone attached to its shaft, which was the immediate cause of the rupture. The artery itself was very atheromatous.3 A tumor of this description, as large as a man’s head, would require for its production the loss to the circulation of an immense quantity of blood, enough to produce unaided in most cases anaemic exhaustion of a fatal nature. Verduc4 saw in a reduction of the humerus at the shoulder, the axillary artery torn, and, in consequence, an aneurism which speedily proved fatal. Petit5 witnessed a similar accident. Platner6 cites a case of rupture of the axillary artery and vein, in consequence of violent extension; which, doubt- less, proved speedily fatal. Sir A. Cooper mentions a case of dislocation at the shoulder-joint, in which reduction was easily effected, but a false -aneu- rism formed; and, the sac bursting, a fatal hemorrhage ensued.7 The artery was found diseased and rigid. Mr. Rivington records the case of a man, aged 71, who died in consequence of hemorrhage from a traumatic aneurism of the axillary artery, that resulted from the reduction of a dislocated humerus.8 The aneurism burst. The sad result in each of these eight cases shows how great the danger of death from hemorrhage really is when the axillary artery chances to be torn 1 Institutes and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. pp. 325-9. 2 Traite des Fractures, etc., t. ii. p. 152. 3 Medical Times and Gazette, February 1, 1873. 4 Malgaigne, Traite des Fractures, etc., t. ii. p. 151. 6 Ibid., p. 151. 7 On Dislocations and Fractures of the Joints, p. 371. 6 Brit. Med. Journal, April 20, 1872. 6 Ibid.