STRETCHING AND AVULSION OF NEKVES. 553 Treatment.—Slight contusions do not require any treatment. If it is thought that inflammatory complications are to be feared, perfect rest of the parts, and resolvents, may be ordered. If inflammation supervenes, emollients should be prescribed; afterwards, when the lesion of the nerve and of the sur- rounding tissues has been cured, steam baths, frictions, massage, etc., will be indicated in order to arouse the excitability of the parts. Local faradization serves to oppose the atrophy of the muscles, and restores their voluntary con- tractility. II. Stretching and Avulsion of Nerves. The term avulsion or tearing of nerves is employed to designate solutions of continuity of these structures, occurring in their course, or at their origin, as the result of excessive extension. The term elongation is reserved for the extension of nerves employed for a therapeutic purpose. During the past few years this method of treatment has acquired great importance, and it will be considered in the chapter devoted to operations upon nerves. It is useless to dwell very much upon the accidental extension of nerves, the history of which will be found included in that of surgical distension or elongation. Etiology.—The stretching of nerves may he slow or sudden ; in the former case it may be due to the development of a pathological tissue, in the latter to displacement of a bone by luxation or fracture, or to certain violent move- ments, as in forced flexion of the thigh—a position in which the sciatic nerve is extended and spread out over the neck of the femur, as I have been able to determine experimentally upon the cadaver. Campenon reported to the Clinical Society of Paris the case of a man w'ho had a temporary paralysis of the leg, caused by remaining too long a time upon his knees, seated upon his heel, with his thigh extremely flexed. But the most frequent cause of nerve extension is found in tractions upon the limbs, notably those practised with therapeutic intent, in reducing fractures and luxations, and especially luxa- tions of the shoulder. This accident is particularly apt to occur when the luxation is one of long standing, which Tripier explains by the fact of the formation of partial adhesions, which prevent the nerve trunks from sliding freely in the cellular tissue which surrounds them, thus confining the stretch- ing to a limited portion of the nerve, instead of permitting it to distribute itself over the entire length. Avulsion of nerves may also be observed in these conditions, as proved by the well-known case of Flaubert, in which the tearing of the brachial plexus from its spinal origin resulted from attempts to reduce a luxation of the shoulder. It is scarcely necessary to say that avul- sion of nerves is met with in cases of total tearing away of a limb. The lesion may also complicate certain contused wounds, such, for example, as those made with hook-shaped instruments. Pathological Anatomy.—The lesions of nerve extension will be described in connection with the operation of elongation. In regard to laceration, it may be complete or incomplete; the different parts of a nerve are not in fact equally extensible; the nerve fibres are generally broken all at the same level, before the neurilemma, which resists longer and is stretched out like a glass tube heated in the flame of a lamp. In some cases, the rupture may only affect a certain number of nerve fibres, but in these cases the unbroken fibres are so stretched, that they are changed in a manner which is sometimes irre- mediable. The rupture of nerves may occur at the point where the force has