INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 598 peritoneal glands. He has found cancerous tumors in the femoral, the sciatic, and the intercostal nerves, and in those of the brachial plexus. Multiple Neuromata.—There may occur upon the nerves multiple tumors of variable structure and benign nature, which are designated by the name of multiple neuromata. The distribution of multiple neuromata varies in different cases. Lebert recognizes, in regard to this point, three varieties: (1) tumors developing themselves upon several points of the same nerve, which assumes the appear- ance of a chaplet, or upon several of its branches ; (2) tumors seen upon the nerves of one and the same region; and (3) tumors observed upon the nerves of very different regions, or neuromata of general multiplicity. Lebert unites the first two varieties under the name of neuromata of local multi- plicity. I. Neuromata of Local Multiplicity.—(1) Multiple Neuromata of a Single Nerve.—Examples of these are rare; Poinsot has collected eleven cases in which the tumors were seated upon the median nerve or other nerve of the arm (A. Bonnet, Piorry, Roux), upon the sciatic nerve (Louis), upon the posterior tibial nerve (Dupuytren, Van der Byl, Dolbeau, Polaillon), upon the pneumogastric nerve (Sottas), or upon the great splanchnic nerve (Lobstein). (2) Multiple Neuromata of a Region.—These have been especially observed in the upper extremities, and upon the cutaneous filaments of the forearm and the hand; such was their seat in the cases of Stromeyer, Robert, Jacquart, Blasius and Yolkmann, Blasius, Lebourcq, Huguier, and Nelaton. E. Home met with them upon the brachial plexus ; Lanelongue (of Bordeaux) upon the median and ulnar nerves at the upper part of the forearm; Gunsburg upon the branches of the sacral plexus ; Virchow upon the saphena nerves; and Heinenche upon the intercostals. Virchow and Poinsot connect with this variety of multiple neuromata the plexiform neuromata which have already been described. II. Neuromata of General Multiplicity.—In this variety, the tumors may be met with in different regions and upon various nerves. Cases of this kind are yet quite rare ; Poinsot has been able to collect thirty-one. This disease is not a malignant, infectious one, and the tumors are of a benign nature. They have been most frequently met with upon the spinal nerves at the surface of the body, but they may also be seated upon the cranial nerves, in the nerve roots, in the cranial and spinal cavities, and, finally, upon the great sympathetic nerves. Multiple neuromata are frequently congenital and hereditary, as I have been able to determine in several members of one and the same family. The structure of multiple neuromata varies: These tumors are most often fibromata, and in the case of a patient under my observation, whose case will be again referred to, this was the nature of the growths. Symptoms of Multiple Neuromata.—Three stages should be recognized in the course of these lesions. In the first, which may be of very long d uration if the tumors are congenital, the disease is unnoticed; it does not manifest its presence by any symptom, though sometimes tinglings and pains precede the appearance of the tumors. In the second stage, the tumors appear, and may be accompanied by disturbances of sensibility and motility. In the third stage, the general condition becomes worse, and death may supervene.; Symptoms of Second Stage, or Stage of Tumors.—Tumors are seen in different parts of the body, upon the course of the nerve branches; they present a