102 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. VIII. Cauterization. The application of a hot iron is one of the most ancient means of arresting hemorrhage. It acts mechanically by forming, out of the charred tissues, a plug, which restrains the outflow of blood. It is by no means an obsolete method of procuring haemostasis. Boyer relates an instructive example:— A servant was playing on a Jew’s-harp ; some one gave him a blow which drove the instrument into his mouth; the blood flowed; a surgeon was called, who directed astringent gargles; they did not answer; he next stuffed the mouth with lint, and bandaged the upper and lower jaws together, but to no purpose ; the bleeding continued for twenty-four hours, and the patient was almost exhausted, when Brasdor, a pro- fessor in the ancient school of surgery, who l’elated the case, was called in. His first care was to see where the blood came from. He emptied the patient’s mouth, and washed it clean. He saw the hemorrhage proceeding from the inferior and anterior part of the tongue; he heated an iron slyly, and put it on the place whence the blood flowed; an eschar was formed, the bleeding stopped in an instant, and the patient got well.1 In this case the ranine artery was wounded; a ligature could not he ap- plied, owing to the inaccessibility of the lesion, and compression was imprac- ticable from the softness and mobility of the tongue. In all similar cases of hemorrhage from the mouth or throat, the actual cautery furnishes the best means of arresting it. The cautery, too, is often employed with success to stop the flow of blood from small, deep-seated vessels lying beyond the reach of the ligature ; also where there is free oozing from numerous points, such as occasionally follows operations on the maxillary bones, operations for the removal of piles, and sometimes excisions of the tonsils. The cautery-iron consists of a knob of that metal at the end of a long shaft, fastened to a convenient handle. The shape of its extremity may be globu- lar, or olivary, or button-like, etc., each form being adapted to some special Fig. 408. Fig. 410. condition requiring its use. (Figs. 408, 409.) It may be heated in the flame of a common spirit-lamp, or in that of a blowpipe made for the purpose. (Fig. 410.) Cautery-ironS may he extemporized from stove-pokers, knife-blades, 1 Traite des Maladies Chirurgicales, t. i.