600 INJURIES AND DISEASES 9F NERVES. seems to be a regular dilatation, more or less fusiform; the nerve fibres have then an arrangement which varies according to the particular case (Lebert, Michon, Yerneuil); they may he separated and pushed over to the periphery of the tumor for which they form an envelope (Velpeau, Lanelongue). There are cases in which the tumor seems to be spitted upon the nerve; sometimes the nerve is found situated in a groove upon the tumor, an arrangement which permits the nerve-trunk to be readily dissected out, as was done by Duncan and Velpeau ; sometimes the nerve is lost in the midst of the mor- bid tissue, as in a fibroma of the median nerve reported by Wietfeldt; some- times, finally, it is spread out on the deep surface of the tumor (Foucault). It was upon these relations of the tumor to the nerve, that Lebert based his classification of neuromata into (1) the peripheral neuroma; (2) the inter- fibrillar or central neuroma; (3) the lateral neuroma ; and (4) the diagonal neuroma, in which the nerve traverses the tumor, no longer following its long axis, as in the central neuroma, but pursuing a diagonal course. What is the state of the nerve below the tumor ? Does it undergo the Wallerian degeneration? The latter probably exists when the continuity of the nerve has been destroyed, as in Wietfeldt’s case. But in many instances there has been found no alteration of the nerve beyond the tumor (Vulpian); this was the condition in Trelat’s case, and in my own case of multiple neu- romata. Houel has noticed a lengthening of nerve-trunks which have several tumors upon their course, causing them to pursue a serpentine track, analogous to that of varicose veins. Etiology of Neuromata in General.—Our knowledge of the etiology of neuromata and of nerve-tumors, is very limited. According to the researches of Poinsot, neuromata, including under this name all tumors of nerves, are more frequent in men than in women. They are met with at all ages; they may be congenital or may occur in old age ; they are most frequent in men between the ages of twenty and fifty years, and in women between the ages of ten and forty years (Poinsot). The cause of the development of these tumors is most often unknown, except in the case of the so-called traumatic neuromata (Smith); an inflam- mation of the adjoining tissues may also cause the production of a tumor. Fuhrer, cited by Virchow, saw, upon a limb amputated for caries of the wrist, a neuroma of the median nerve, seated at the level of the diseased part. An increase in the size of the nerves has been noted in elephantiasis, in myxoedema (Hanrot), and in leprosy. Brown-Sequard insists upon the con- stant presence, in leprous subjects, of a tumor of the ulnar nerve, but Fou- cault did not find it in eight patients whom he examined. It is also admitted that syphilitic gummata may form upon nerve-trunks. Lebourcq reports a case of neuroma which disappeared under treatment with iodide of potassium. Virchow divides neuromata according to their origin into congenital, trau- matic', and spontaneous neuromatq. Symptoms of Nerve-Tumors.—Frequently the tumor is developed slowly without giving any manifestations of its presence, and is only discovered when it has reached a certain size; in other cases its appearance is preceded by numbness or by pain. The tumor is situated over the course of a nerve, and is more or less readily detected according to the seat of the nerve which it occupies; it has been mentioned that the superficial nerves are more often afiected than others. The tumor is generally oblong, ovoid, rounded, smooth, resisting, and with a certain elasticity. Its size varies very much, and it