DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. Fig. 579. Forward Dislocation of the Tarsus.—This is the backward dislocation of the tibia on the foot, of many authors. The causes of this rare injury are similar to those of the backward form just described. Applying the same tests as in the latter case, the symptoms are of an oppo- site kind, that is, the line of the tibia is too far back, the foot projects too much in front, the heel seems not at all promi- nent, and the end of the tibia is felt, if not seen, back of its proper position. Hot only is the fibula generally found to be broken, but in most of the recorded cases the internal malleolus, as well, has been described as fractured. The bony conformation of the ankle-joint is such that dislocation can rarely occur with- out a fracture of one or both malleoli, or of some part of the articulating sur- face of the tibia, whence the fact that the leg or thigh bones so much more frequently suffer than the ankle, in se- vere falls upon the feet. Treatment.—Reduction is effected as in the backward displacement of the tarsus. After replacement, a tendency to reluxa- tion is not mentioned in the records as being troublesome, doubtless because the rim of the joint is not broken away as in the posterior dislocation. Plaster dressings are a valuable means in this injury of securing immobility and good apposition of the small broken extremities of the tibia and fibula. The rarity of the accident makes generalization uncertain as to prognosis, but this apparently is favorable in regard to ultimate recovery of full use of the foot. Dressings are to be worn for about six weeks from the time of injury, when the fractures will generally have become united. Passive movements may be begun much earlier than this, to prevent too much stiffening of the joint from mere disuse. Dislocation of the Inferior Extremity of the Fibula.—Only one exam- ple of this injury, in its simple form, is well attested. This is Helaton’s case, which is said to have been produced by a carriage-wheel passing across the ankle, or just above it, so as to force the lower end of the fibula backward, until it rested in contact with the tendo Achillis. The external face of the astragalus was distinctly perceptible at the usual location of the external malleolus, but the foot was in natural position, very strangely, not being in- verted. The case was first seen six weeks after the injury, at which time the patient could with careful steps walk for a considerable distance. The dislocation was pronounced incurable on account of the length of time which had elapsed. The literature of the profession therefore furnishes no account of treatment in these cases. It is rational to suppose that this dislocation might have been reduced by pressure upon the bone from behind, with perhaps subcutaneous section with a tenotome of some resisting bands. Compound Dislocation of the Ankle-Joint.—In cases of severe fall, it is not very rare for the lower end of the tibia or fibula to be driven through the integument, so as to lay open the ankle-joint to the external air. Corn-