ANEURISM. 460 even to the sound side, may be allowed, the limb under treatment being thrown across the other. An advantage, however, is gained by the first of these positions, viz., the possibility of combining with flexion pressure by a weight, after the manner shortly to be described. This mode of treatment is by no means painless. As already stated, different persons bear it with very varying degrees of tolerance, but no one bears it well when it is rigorously practised. It is more prudent to commencewith a slighter degree, even though it may not annul pulsation; after a little while, the fur- ther degrees will be more readily borne. Occasionally one of the methods, which to some persons may have been tolerable, will be to another unbearable; yet he may be tolerant of some other mode of fastening the limb. Continu- ance of one posture is not essential; indeed, some cases have progressed more rapidly and much more comfortably by allowing intervals of rest. In a few instances, when pulsation though much diminished continues, relaxation of treatment has been followed by cure. In its results, flexion is very capricious. Occasionally the aneurism has so great a tendency to spontaneous cure, that simply lying in bed with the knee spontaneously bent has, in a few hours, produced solidification. On the other hand, many attempts have been abandoned as useless, after weeks of severe and painful treatment. It appears desirable to give the Results of treatment as far as my opportunities have allowed me to collect them. In doing this I avail myself of two sources—published cases and hospital records. In using the former, we must accept the numbers with very great caution. Successful cases are almost all published; want of success is rarely made public. I gather altogether, since the first introduction of the method by Maunoir, 91 cases; of these, 42 have been successful, 49 unsuccessful.1 Of the unsuc- cessful cases, 25 came to ligature; 13 were cured by pressure; 4 were ampu- tated; 3 terminated fatally ; the ultimate destiny of 4 is unknown. The causes of amputation and of death were gangrene, suppuration, and rupture of the sac. It must, however, in justice, be noted that flexion was employed alone and by itself in only 26 of the 91 cases, and that of these 19 ended in recovery; this large proportion of cures set down to the method when used alone, indicates merely that a certain number of aneurisms are easily curable; flexion happened to be the method employed; the more re- calcitrant cases became subject to successive forms of treatment. If we pass to hospital reports, more reliable because every case and not merely selected instances are recorded, we find in those six hospitals2 which 1 have taken, 7 treated by flexion alone, and 9 by flexion aided chiefly by some form of pressure. Of the 16 cases, 7 were successful, 6 unsuccessful, 2 came to amputation, 1 ended in death. Esmarch Bandage. (Reid's Method.)—The Esmarch bandage has been ex- tensively used in popliteal aneurism; its application and its mode of action have already been described (p. 425). I have also taken occasion to remark that its success, when that occurs, is so rapid that it offers a great charm, both to patient and surgeon. The ease with which it can be applied, even by very inexperienced hands, is an additional reason why this method will often be used. It is, however, not without its dangers—the chief and more immediate being gangrene, the less frequent and more remote, thrombosis and inflammation of the sac. 1 There is no doubt that very many more have been unsuccessful. Often reports of cases state that previous to ligature “ other means,” or, “ pressure and other means,” were employed ; or some similar phrase is used. I have counted no cases here unless flexion is specifically mentioned. In my collection of cases, Dr. Fischer’s table (Prager Vierteljahrschrift, Bd. civ. S. 161) has been used for cases previous to 1869 ; the rest are due to my own research. 2 The six hospitals are St. Bartholomew’s, Charing Cross, St. George’s, Guy’s, St. Thomas’s, University College.