INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 238 Traumatic Aneurism. Definition.—A traumatic aneurism is a tumor filled with blood poured out from, and communicating with, the canal of a wounded artery. Between traumatic and spontaneous aneurisms there is another important distinction: namely, that in the former there usually exists before the accident a sound condition of the injured vessel, whereas, in the latter, the arterial tunics are diseased. Etiology.—Traumatic aneurisms are caused by punctured, contused, lace- rated, gunshot, and incised wounds of arteries, and I have already presented many examples of them in the foregoing pages, while discussing the several kinds of arterial wound. Varieties.—Of traumatic aneurisms, two varieties are recognized: (1) the diffused; (2) the circumscribed. Each variety may, and often does, exist with- out an external wound. I. Diffused Traumatic Aneurism.—The diffused variety occurs imme- diately after the puncture, rupture, or division of an artery when there is no external wound; or, if there is an external wound, when it is valvular, or perchance closed in some other way, so that the blood cannot outwardly escape. Thus, the diffused variety of traumatic aneurism consists of an extravasation of blood into the connective tissue of the part. It is, in real- ity, not an aneurism at all, but a wounded artery with internal or concealed hemorrhage, instead of external bleeding. The tendency of a diffused aneu- rism is to constantly extend itself, or to expand by stretching and separating the anatomical components of the part wherein it is situated, and filling the space with soft coagula, until it bursts open from the mechanical distension of the part; or until inflammation, abscess, or sloughing takes place, when, :an external opening being formed, the patient will perish from hemorrhage, unless the surgeon by timely interference stop the bleeding. If left to themselves, these tumors never undergo spontaneous cure. Symptoms.-^The diffused variety of traumatic aneurism is a subcutaneous, soft, and fluctuating tumor, often of considerable size, containing extrava- sated blood, and rising up or appearing immediately or very soon after the wounding of an artery. At first the skin covering it is not affected ; but in a few days it frequently becomes discolored with ecchymoses, caused by the infiltration of blood. If the aperture in the artery be large and free, the tumor will exhibit pulsation, synchronous with the heart-beat, accompanied by a thrilling, purring, or jarring sensation, and often by a loud bruit. If, however, the injured artery be small, or if the aperture in the arterial tunics be oblique, or of a limited size, or obstructed, there will be no distinct pulsa- tion or bruit; in such cases, the tumor will be indolent and semi-fluctuating, or will, perhaps, exhibit an impulse which is communicated to it by the sub- jacent artery. In the section on lacerated wounds and ruptures of arteries, I have presented many examples of diffused traumatic aneurism in which there was neither pulsation, nor thrill, nor bruit. The size of an aneurism of this variety will, in great measure, be determined by its locality. For instance, in the armpit, where the subcutaneous connective tissue is very loose, or at the root of the neck, or in the thigh, it may rapidly attain a very great bulk; whereas, in the palm of the hand, or at the bend of the elbow, in consequence of' the strength and resistance of the fasciae, its growth is corres- pondingly restricted. When the blood is suddenly effused in great quantity,