WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC BLOODVESSELS. 237 2 Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, April, 1881, pp. 366-373. 1 Ibid., p. 190. Wounds of the Iliac Veins.—A few cases were reported during the late civil war in which traumatic lesions of the pelvic veins -were the most im- portant complications. Wounds which open widely the common iliac vein or its two principal tributaries, as a rule, prove quickly mortal from the primary bleeding. There is, however, a case recorded, in which a conoidal musket- ball penetrated the pelvis through the right ischiatic notch, and divided the corresponding internal iliac vein, the man surviving more than twenty- four hours. On opening the abdominal cavity after death, it was found to he full of blood.1 In cases where the external iliac vein is wounded, or the femoral vein near its entrance into the pelvic cavity, should the primary hemorrhage be suppressed, gangrene of the corresponding extremity does not of necessity ensue, as I have already shown in the section on wounds of veins. The symptoms resulting from an intra-pelvic extravasation of blood, when the quantity is small or but moderate, may be obscure or almost wanting. Baudens, however, mentions, as a characteristic sign that a quantity of blood is being collected in the pelvis, the incessant and insupportable clesire to micturate, which is caused by the pressure that is exerted on the bladder by the extravasation, and which is present although there is no urine in the viscus. In some cases, important aid in diagnosing the lesions of the pelvic blood- vessels may be obtained by introducing the hand into the rectum, as has been practised in two instances by Professor H. B. Sands, of Hew York.2 By manual exploration with the hand in the rectum, the condition of the lower part of the abdominal aorta, and of the common, internal, and external iliac arteries, can be satisfactorily ascertained. By the same means pressure can be directly applied to the common iliac artery as well as to the external and internal iliacs, so as to readily control the flow of blood through them, as Dr. Woodbury had already shown.3 The bowel should be evacuated by a large enema of warm water. The hand anointed with lard, and the fingers folded into a cone (the patient being anaesthetized), is gradually introduced into the rectum with its dorsum toward the sacrum, till it reaches the sigmoid flexure, when the hand may be pronated, and, as the vessels are directly under the fingers, they may then be examined or compressed at will. The sphincter recovers its tone in a few days, and, if the hand be slowly introduced, lacera- tion is not apt to follow. To suppress hemorrhage from the external iliac vein, when wounded, it will generally be necessary, as in cases where the femoral vein is wounded, to liga- ture the corresponding common femoral artery. The mode of applying instrumental compression to the abdominal aorta, or the primitive iliacs, with Lister’s or Erichsen’s artery compressor, or Skey’s or Pancoast’s abdominal tourniquet, I have already pointed out (pp. 74, 127). Operative procedures should be pushed to the utmost hound of pru- dence when the pelvic arteries are wounded. In cases where gunshot mis- siles penetrate the pelvis, the liability to the occurrence of secondary hemor- rhage from contusion of the internal iliac artery, or its branches, should always be remembered, and provided for as far as possible. The timely application of instrumental pressure to the common iliac artery, together with the enforcement of absolute immobility of the patient, in cases of hemorrhage (whether primary or secondary) from wounds penetrating the pelvis, where ligatures cannot be applied, may possibly so restrain the bleed- ing that an occluding clot of a permanent character will plug the orifice, or that, at least, a traumatic aneurism amenable to treatment may result. 3 Ibid., January, 1874.