INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 668 are thus procurable. Although not equal to extension at right angles, it has always been a favorite method, and has succeeded in thousands of cases. While having the obvious advantage of relaxing the pectoralis and latissi- mus muscles, it puts on stretch the powerful deltoid and the upper untorn half of the capsule. Most obvious and important of the objections to down- ward extension, however, is the fact that the head of the bone is already below its socket; and it seems irrational to use force in a direction opposite to that in which it is desired to make the head of the hone advance. Were it not for the great mobility of the scapula, I am convinced that Cooper’s method would never effect reduction at all. As it is, more force and time are needed for it than for any of the other plans described. But recent shoulder dislocations are extremely easy of replacement, and Cooper’s plan, though theoretically faulty, has probably been used in more cases than all other methods combined. The operation is best conducted with the patient upon a lounge or couch ; but the mattress may be laid upon the floor, or an ordinary table may be used in an emergency. Some surgeons prefer to use an axillary pad, as a roll of cloth or ball of yarn, upon which to rest the heel in making counter- extension. By little and little the parts yield under steady traction,; the glenoid cavity presents more downward, being drawn around as we have described, and the bone is felt or heard to slip into its socket. Either the clove-hitch and a strong linen band or rope, or the hands alone, may be used in making extension. Rotation to loosen fibrous obstructions is to be effected by using the forearm, flexed to a right angle, as a lever. I am strongly opposed to the use of Skey’s iron knob in these cases, believing that the heel or a softer pad is equally efficient. Fourth Method. (Upward Extension.)—In order most perfectly to relax that portion of the capsule which is still untorn, and also the deltoid muscle, some surgeons have advocated and practised reduc- tion by extension obliquely upward and out- ward. This position puts to the extremest stretch the pectoral and dorsal muscles, and is probably, therefore, not quite as favorable as an intermediate position. Good results, how- ever, are obtained by it, and it serves as one of the resources invoked in difficult cases. The danger of rupturing the axillary artery or vein is greatest when this position is chosen, on account of the distance through which the head is made to pass in sweeping the arm up- ward. It should be very cautiously employed in ancient dislocations, in which this accident is particularly liable to occur. Fifth Method.—Various methods have been devised for combining traction and leverage by placing a fulcrum in the axilla. Of these, Sir Astley Cooper’s method of using the sur- geon’s knee, is to be mentioned as one fre- quently described, and probably quite safe and effective, but very little used by Ameri- can surgeons. In this method, the patient is seated in a chair, the surgeon standing by his side with one foot upon the edge of the chair, and his knee in the patient’s axilla, making counter-extension, while extension is made with the hands, the Fig. 558. deduction of dislocated humerus, with knee in axilla (Cooper’s method).