193 INCISED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. described above, give but little trouble. But, as the late Dr. Otis very justly remarks: “The subjects of such injuries are very unfortunate if they have not the services of a surgeon possessed of the requisite skill and courage to thoroughly explore the wound at the outset.”1 I do not say that such cuts never get well under the use of compresses and bandages; I do say, however, that compression often fails to check the bleeding permanently, and that I have seen several instances of such a failure, in some of which the patients were blanched or exsanguinated, and exhausted, from the frequently recurring hemorrhages. Professors Gross and Agnew advise that the general rule for the treatment of wounded arteries should not be deviated from here; and that in recent punctured or incised wounds of the palmar arches, the wound should be enlarged and both ends of the bleeding vessel tied. But the neglected cases present the real difficulties; and in these, compression, cauterization, acupressure, ligation of the radial or ulnar artery, or both, and ligation of the brachial artery, have all been employed with reported successes and failures. Concerning the neglected cases, Professor Yon Pitha observes: “I saw several cases of exceedingly rebellious bleeding from cuts and stabs of the palm; two of these were brought to me after numerous ineffectual attempts to stop the bleeding, in a profoundly anaemic condition; yet I was never forced to practise ligation, as the bleeding ceased, on removing the coagula, completely and permanently The first thing to be done in such cases is to freely expose the bleeding vessel by enlarging the wound, and to boldly clear away all coagula. The irritation caused hy the sponge and by the admission of cool air frequently induces the gaping arterial wound to retract. The wound should not be immediately closed, but should be kept under close observation for some time.”2 Many other surgeons, including the author, have likewise seen, in cases of recurring hemorrhage from wounds of the palm, the bleeding cease completely and permanently on laying bare the open mouth of the bleeding vessel, by enlarging the wound, completing the division of the artery in cases where it was incompletely divided, and at the same time removing all coagula and thoroughly cleansing the wound. The ends of the severed artery, which projected at first from the surface of section, have many times been seen to retract, contract, and become completely closed, so that all future hemorrhage was effectually restrained. The most important points to be considered in treating hemorrhage from wounds of the palm are: (1) To distinctly bring into view the mouth or mouths of the bleeding artery, by enlarging the wound; (2) to complete the division of the artery whenever it is found to be incompletely divided; (3) to remove all clots and foreign sub- stances from the wound, and apply pressure to the ends of the severed artery by means of a finger placed in the wound; and (4) if the ends of the artery do not retract, contract, and become completely occluded with a supplemental internal coagulum, to place a ligature of carbolized catgut, securely, on each of the ends. In all cases, whether they be quite recent, or old and neglected, or badly treated, the bleeding artery must be sought for and found in the wounded palm. (For further information on this and other important points, examine the cases and the discussion of punctured wounds of the palmar arches on p. 121.) The objection that a search for the wounded artery may necessitate more or less mutilation of the palm should not be allowed to have much weight against the possibility of failure, as well as the danger, which, in such cases, attends upon the deligation of the arterial trunks in the forearm and arm. Incised wounds involving the lesser arteries of the head and face should 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., p. 437. 2 Ibid., p. 437, foot note. VOL. III.—13