537 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. always fails to cure, though a few cases are on record in which it produced a certain benefit1 by delaying the progress of the malady. The form of deliga- tion should be after the method of Antyllus, that is, immediately above and below the site of disease. Generally, in such cases, it will be necessary to open the sac and turn out any clots, little in quantity and loose in texture as they are in this form of aneurism; or, when feasible, greater safety may be insured by tying the vessel above and below, while leaving the sac intact. But certain difficulties attend this operation; if the vessel be not very deep, the upper part of the artery is reached with ease; but that part which lies below the tumor—contracted and often very small, surrounded also by swollen and tortuous veins—can with difficulty be found, and perhaps can only be taken up by tearing or cutting through many of those vessels. Herein lies one, per- haps the chief, danger of ligature for varicose aneurism, namely, the inter- ference with and probable ligature of the main veins, which, in a limb already weakened and predisposed to sphacelus by the varicose condition of those vessels, may lead to rapid gangrene, especially if the disease be of the lower extremity. Hence in some cases, more particularly in old or enfeebled persons, the safer and more prudent course will be to amputate, rather than to incur the risk of producing an inevitable and perhaps irrestrainable gan- grene. The treatment of aneurismal varix should also be commenced by pressure, but direct pressure, not merely on the tumor, but also upon the foramen of communication, is that which is most likely to prove successful. Moreover, the finger has proved of all compressing instruments the most efficacious; yet it is only right to observe that in a large number of cases the treatment ends in disappointment. Nor does it seem desirable to continue it for any lengthened period unless palpable improvement gives encouragement to fur- ther effort. The Esmarch bandage and cord, if care be taken to keep the vessels at the site of disease full, also seem likely to be of avail. If this simpler treatment fail, the circumstances of the case must be well considered before recommending any more severe measures. Frequently, and more especially in the upper limb, an aneurismal varix, having culminated in a certain enlargement of the vein about the site of disease, and in a certain varicose condition of the veins lower down, together with some weakness or facile fatigue of the part, proceeds no further, and remains stationary for years. In such circumstances, prudence would counsel both surgeon and pa- tient not to employ, for a malady which involves so little inconvenience, any treatment that might endanger either life or limb. When, however, the troubles become, or in other cases are ab initio, more severe, and especially if they are increasing, surgical interference becomes not merely justifiable but imperative. Galvano-puncture and the injection of coagulants are not likely to prove of any avail.2 There is no sac to the aneurism, but merely two tubes, one being more or less dilated; hence blood loosely coagulated by either method would probably be washed onward and cause embolism, as soon as the restraining pressure was removed. Both methods are probably more dangerous than in sacculated aneurism. More safe is deligation with a properly selected ligature. The vessel should 1 See case by Czerny (Archiv fiir pathologische Anatomie und Physiologie, Bd. 62, S. 464) ; the disease was femoral; the Hunterian ligature produced a certain temporary benefit. Also one by Ambrogio Gtherini, who tied with slight transitory benefit the brachial artery at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, for varicose aneurism following venesection at the bend of the elbow (Annali Univers. di Med., Novembre, 1873). 2 The latter mode of treatment has been recommended by a high authority as likely to be use- ful ; but the opinion is not founded on any practical experience. (Holmes’s System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 531.)