394 ANEURISM. I. Pulsatile Tumors that are not Aneurisms.—Any tumor, fluid or solid, if placed immediately over a large artery, may have pulsation communicated to it. An abscess, well encysted and firmly hound down by fascia upon such a vessel, may pulsate in a very deceptive manner, and many mistakes which have been made under such circumstances might be collected. They appear to have arisen less frequently from the inherent difficulties of the case than from the habit of accepting one or two symptoms as conclusive in diagnosis. The presence of inflammation, the appearance of pointing, the absence of pulsa- tion, do not, even when taken altogether, prove a swelling to be an abscess. As, for instance, in the case which Pirogoff records,1 with a frankness that does him honor: He was, on his return from a long and fatiguing journey, called to a man who was in severe pain from an inflammation, apparently a suppurating phlegmon, of the leg; immediate relief from his suffering was the patient’s only desire. The case seemed to the overtired Pirogoff perfectly clear; he plunged a scalpel into the swelling, and was informed of his error by a gush of arterial blood. Richet2 was on the point of opening what seemed to him an axillary abscess, when he fortunately felt a thrill, and on further examination detected bruit. The case was one of axillary aneu- rism. Inflamed aneurisms, when more deeply placed, are more difficult of diagnosis; as, for instance, in the case of Bergmann, who opened what appeared to te a “ phlegmonous angina.” Ho sudden escape of blood ensued, but the patient died of asphyxia, when the disease was found to be aneurism of the internal carotid artery.3 Dr. Stephen Smith,4 in confessing an error of his own and recording one or two others, comments on the difficulties of diagnosis, which, I think, he somewhat exaggerates, by showing that no one symptom of aneurism, as given in surgical works, is pathognomonic. I certainly shall not dispute that contention; it is the collective evidence of all symptoms that must guide the verdict.5 How an abscess firmly bound down upon an artery and inclosed in a tough wall, resembles, in those physical points with which we have to do, a cyst— such a cyst, for instance, as may arise in the popliteal space in connection with the knee-joint or with a flexor sheath. All three diseases, aneurism, abscess, and cyst, may present a globular or ovoid pulsatile tumor, forming rapidly after over-exertion, and two of them (cyst and aneurism) may be pre- ceded by the sense of something breaking or giving way ; they may all three be devoid of bruit. But the pulsation of the two latter diseases is not disten- sile, as is that of aneurism; their throb is diminished on flexing the limb and relaxing the fascia; and in this posture they may sometimes be lifted away from the artery, when pulsation ceases entirely or in great part. Often, when the fascia is moderately tense, the beat of the tumor can be detected as being most marked along a line corresponding to the direction and place of the artery.6 The tumor does not diminish and increase on compression and release of the vessel above. In some cases such a cyst may be emptied by 1 Klinische Chirurgie, S. 95. “ 2 Gazette des H6pitaux, 1879. 3 Zeitschrift der Chirurgie, Bd. xiv. Heft. 1 and 2, S. 2. 1 American Journal of Medical Sciences, April 1873. ' 5 The point on which Dr. Smith lays most stress as most diagnostic, is the past history of the patient, more especially the sense of something having given way. I cannot say that I have found patients’ accounts of former sensations at all reliable ; they are often taught them by their questioners. Mr. Holmes (St. George’s Hospital Reports, 1874, p. 177), in commenting upon this paper, brings very much into prominence, as the one reliable symptom, the bruit. I have seen so many aneurisms without bruit,'.while so many non-aneurismal tumors with bruit are recorded, that this symptom appears to me one of the least valuable; certainly its absence indicates very little. But especially valuable, when anatomical situation permits the test, is diminution in the size of the tumor on pressing the artery above, and its rapid increase when the vessel is released. 6 An aneurism springing from the front of the artery and growing towards the bone may pre- sent this linear pulsation, but it is increased on extension of the limb.