INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 152 of the artery occurred in connection with the displacement of the caput humeri, just as it did in Dr. Adams’s case, related above. Professor A. Berard has observed in connection with a dislocation of the humerus under the coracoid process, a rupture of the two inner tunics of the axillary artery, extending through its whole circumference; the external tunic was stretched out as a slender tube. This lesion was attended by obli- teration of the vessel, and gangrene of several fingers, and, finally, by the death of the patient. The absence of pulsation in the radial and ulnar arteries made M. Berard suspect a lesion of the axillary artery.1 In this case, doubt- less the ruptured inner and middle coats recurved, so as to close the channel of the artery. Moreover, Malgaigne has shown that rupture of the axillary artery has occurred in connection with most of the common forms of dislocation at the shoulder. In some cases, however, where dislocation of the humerus has been thought to be present, the axillary artery has been found torn by the splinters or frag- ments attending a fracture of the humerus, there being no dislocation what- ever of that hone. The following examples in point have occurred in the practice of two very eminent surgeons:— A man fell and injured his shoulder. The surgeon who first saw him said there was a dislocation, and tried to reduce it. Being not quite satisfied with the result, for the head of the humerus still appeared to project in front more than it ought to do, he sent for Mr. Stanley, who thought it might be a case of partial dislocation forward (much spoken of at the time by Mr. Abernethy). Accordingly, they bound the arm tightly across the chest, with the hand resting on the opposite shoulder. Calling a few days after- ward, Mr. Stanley’s,attention was aroused by the fact that there was no pulse at the wrist of the injured arm. The bandage was immediately removed, but without restora- tion of the pulse. Many years later, the man died, and Mr. Stanley carefully examined the part. He found that there had been a fracture through the anatomical neck of the humerus, with obliteration of the axillary artery opposite thereto.2 Mr. Callender, in commenting on this case, fancies that the inner and middle coats of the artery only had given way, as in Berard’s case, which I have just presented—where, however, the obliteration of the artery was followed by death from gangrene; and his view of the case is probably the correct one. Mr. Skey3 met with the next example: A woman, aged 55, slipped in walking, and fell violently to the ground, with her arm in an extended position. A day or two afterward she was seen by a surgeon, who detected and reduced, it was said, a disloca- tion of the shoulder. Three or four weeks after that, she began to complain of a swell- ing in the armpit, which appears to have slowly increased. Two months later, some blood escaped. Then she was sent to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital and admitted under Mr. Skey’s care, three months subsequent to the fall. After careful consideration, the swelling was laid freely open, the blood turned out, and the axillary artery tied above and below the aperture in its walls. Subsequently, the patient died; and, on autopsy, the humerus was found obliquely fractured in its upper third; the wound of the artery had been caused by a pointed piece of detached bone. There had been no dislocation. The procedures for reducing dislocations of the shoulder-joint, especially for reducing those which have existed some considerable time, are quite liable to tear the walls of the axillary artery, and many examples of this accident have been placed on record. In some of them its occurrence has speedily been followed by death from shock and hemorrhage, as it was in the following case that was treated by Professor Gibson :— A man, aged 50, presented himself with a luxation of the right arm, of two months’ standing. Three weeks after the accident, it was said, four strong men had pulled on 1 Elemens de Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. pp. 368, 369. 2 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, vol. ii. pp. 102, 103. 3 Ibid., p. 102.