378 ANEURISM. artery with interstitial or subfascial hemorrhage. The term will not be used in this article. Another distinction is drawn from the locality of the disease. Internal aneurisms are situated within the cranium, thorax, or abdomen, while those that make their appearance outside those cavities, or anywhere about the limbs, are named external aneurisms. The region in, or the artery on which, the tumor is situated, also confers a name on the disease: thus, intracranial, thoracic, or abdominal; axillary or popliteal; aortic, carotid, femoral, and so on. Causes of Aneurism. The causes of aneurism are (1) wound or violence,1 and (2) any circumstances which disturb the relationship between the pressure of the blood and the retentive power of the vessels. Among the latter there may be certain predis- posing as distinguished from direct or exciting causes, but they vary in different events; thus, for instance, atheroma may be merely a predisposing cause, if some violence produce the disease, but is in spontaneous aneurism more frequently the exciting, indeed the only direct, cause; the predisposing causation must then be sought in such conditions as may produce or tend to arterial degeneration. But little notice will, however, be taken of this time- honored division of causes, since it is, as regards aneurism, more pedantic than valuable. Wounds.—Wounds inflicted by some sharp instrument, although they more commonly give rise to hemorrhage, may, by partial division of arterial coats, cause aneurism, which, if the vein be also implicated, may be arterio- venous, but may also, as the following case will show, he of the sacculated variety, if merely the artery be involved:— Case I A carpenter, aged twenty-six, was admitted into Charing Cross Hospital, under the care of Mr. Canton, in April, 1861. Three weeks previously a chisel which he was using slipped and penetrated the thigh, about the junction of the upper and middle thirds. Some smart but not profuse bleeding occurred, but was checked without deligation of any vessels; the wound healed quickly, and had closed six days before his admission. He came to show a “ lump” which lay immediately under the cicatrix, and which was diagnosed to be an aneurism, for which the femoral artery was tied. The man died; the arterial wound was found to have divided probably only a certain thickness of the outer coat. External Violence, without Wound, is sometimes directly productive of aneurism. A familiar example of such casualty is found in the axillary aneurism which sometimes follows over-zealous attempts to reduce a disloca- tion of the shoulder. The vessel indeed may be entirely ruptured by such efforts. Sailors are said to be subject to axillary and subclavian aneurism, sometimes probably the effect of repeated over-exertion, often the result of some sudden effort, as preventing a fall by catching with one hand on a rope or spar. Violent traction by revolving machinery, which, having caught a limb, drags it into its gear, has several times been followed by aneurism. I have, from my own observation, reason to believe that the frequent falls and other mishaps of drunkards produce thoracic and abdominal aneurisms more frequently than is usually supposed. In such cases, it is probable that some form of degeneration may have weakened the arterial coats; perhaps alco- 1 I avoid the word traumatic as in this case ambiguous.