105 AFTER-TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. small, like those of the nostrils, uterine cavity, pulmonary cavity, etc. The most important of these remedies are, (1) oil of turpentine, given in doses of ten drops suspended in mucilage or simple emulsion, every fifteen or twenty minutes; (2) fluid extract of ergot, twenty or thirty drops every half hour; (3) gallic acid, ten grains every hour; (4) aromatic sulphuric acid, fifteen drops every two hours, mixed in water; (5) opium, given in doses sufficient to allay restlessness and mental anxiety—a most valuable remedy against hemorrhage; and (6) acetate of lead, in doses of not less than two grains every hour or two, combined with opium, a combination which has sometimes suppressed hemorrhage after everything else has failed. After-treatment of Hemorrhage. After the bleeding is stanched, everything which could bring it on again must be carefully avoided. To that end the patient himself, as well as the injured part, must be kept at perfect rest. In cases where the bleeding has been stopped mainly by applying pressure, it oftentimes is advisable to con- tinue to compress the main trunk of the artery on the cardiac side of the wound, as well as the wounded vessel itself at the place of injury, until the period of reaction is fully passed, and perhaps even longer than that, lest the occluding coagula should be driven out by the increasing force of the blood- stream. The surgeon must also provide against the return of hemorrhage by caus- ing, if possible, union of the wound throughout to occur by the first intention, with correspondingly speedy healing of the vascular lesion itself. He will, therefore, employ antiseptic dressings and the antiseptic plan of treatment, and do whatever else seems requisite to fulfil this indication. But when, owing to the nature of the injury, there will be suppuration—as, for instance, usually happens in gunshot and contused wounds—he must seek to prevent the recurrence of hemorrhage by providing for the immediate discharge of matter by means of drainage-tubes inserted in the wound (Fig. 413), and by the em- Fig. 413. Chassaignac’s drainage tube and drainage trocar. ployment of “ through drainage” also, whenever practicable. If the wound become inflamed, he must promptly abate the inflammation by applying an ice-poultice, or iced-water irrigation, or an ice-bag to the inflamed part; and by administering cooling drinks, with a bland diet. He must protect the patient from constitutional infection by the absolute cleanliness as well as the antiseptic quality of the dressings, by the freshness and purity of the air he breathes, and by the nourishing, sustaining, or healing quality of the food he eats. In all wounds implicating large bloodvessels, where sloughs must he discharged, the surgeon must have a close watch kept by the attendants on the patient, so as not to be taken unawares by the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage; and they must be instructed beforehand what to do pending his arrival. Especially must the surgeon take care to prevent the burrowing of purulent matter in these cases, and the occurrence of inflammation in the perivascular tissues, by prompt incisions, by complete drainage, by thorough antisepsis, and by judi-