617 TETANUS. say, with Richelot, setting aside the overwhelming (foudroyant) forms, which seem beyond the resources of art, that the acute forms have never been directly cured, but that treatment may make chronic some cases of tetanus which have begun as acute, and may stop generalization and death in some eases in which they would occur, if the disease were abandoned to itself. Treatment of Tetanus.—Without affirming, as does Rose, that tetanus may always be attributed to a mistake made in the treatment, it is evident that its development can but be favored by cold and by unseasonable irritation of wounds, and that the removal of these causes should enter into the preven- tive treatment of tetanus. A question more grave is that of preventive amputation, proposed by some authors when tetanus occurs in successive cases. The majority of surgeons reject the operation when the traumatism itself does not indicate it, but they :admit that the existence of an epidemic of tetanus may incline the balance in favor of amputation in doubtful cases. I mention here, in order not to have to recur to them, the accessory means employed for special indications: the wedge of wood for separating the teeth—useless, since the space situated between the last molars and the coronoid process of the inferior maxillary bone always permits the passage of an oesophageal tube, which may also be introduced through the nasal fossae (but it must he remembered that an irritation of the larynx may cause spasm and sudden death); nutritious ene- mata when alimentation by the mouth is not possible; purgatives from time to time; catheterization in case of retention of urine; and, finally, tracheotomy, which is indicated in case asphyxia through spasm of the glottis constitutes the principal danger. The innumerable methods which have been extolled as curative measures for tetanus may be arranged, as is done by Richelot, in three classes, accord- ing as they endeavor to suppress the initial irritation, to modify the state of the nerve-centres, or to directly check the muscular contraction. In the first rank should be placed the surrounding conditions, which, according to Renzi, constitute a sufficient treatment. The Italian surgeon places patients with tetanus in an isolated, dark, and well-warmed room, where they remain in silence and the most absolute quietness. Without being as exclusive as he is, it must be acknowledged that these precautions are valuable adjuvants to other means of treatment, and that they should be employed whenever it is possible. In order to maintain around the patients a warm and even tempe- rature, it is important at least to cover them with an eider-down quilt. These precautions will prevent the external excitations which determine most of the paroxysms. But it is necessary to endeavor to overcome the cause itself of tetanus, the peripheral irritation which has been its point ot origin. Such is the object of local treatment, the only rational means of arresting the malady at its be- ginning. The surgeon must inquire if there he not some evident, local cause of irritation, painful granulations which can he cauterized, or a too sensitive cicatrix which should be destroyed with the bistoury or caustics. Apart from these indications, we must confine ourselves to an infrequent but very ■careful dressing of the wound, and not irritate it with blisters or ether spray. If this simple treatment, in connection with internal medication, which we shall study presently, does not cause a rapid amelioration of the symptoms, it becomes necessary to adopt more active measures, and to choose between, amputation, neurotomy, and nerve-elongation or nerve-stretching. Amputation is only admissible when it would be justifiable even without the complication of tetanus; at the present time it is known that an amputa-