ANEURISM. 516 the ligature, arrives. Sixty-seven and sixty-five days are the longest periods of life, but whether long or short, the mechanical action of insoluble liga- tures—the severance of arterial coats—is the immediate cause of death. To the record of completed cases, we must add four of abandoned opera- tion. One surgeon finding the innominate too diseased, tied the carotid two- other surgeons simply desisted; in one case (Key) complete, in another (Porter) partial solidification resulted from the manipulation, or from an inflammatory condition set up in the coats of the sac. As regards hemorrhage and the insoluble ligature, the same remarks apply; all the recorded cases (except Smyth’s) have proved fatal, but the necessity of such a mortality with a different form of ligature is very doubtful, and is at all events not proven.1 2 Deligation of the Left Subclavian Artery in its First Part.—If the operation of tying the first part of the right subclavian artery be difficult, the deligation of the left vessel is hazardous in the extreme ; the artery on this side lies more deeply, passing into the neck out of the thorax from behind the lung, nor does it rise as high above the first rib: it is almost longitudinal in direc- tion—the internal jugular vein and the vagus nerve are dangerously near and parallel to the vessel—while in front and on the inner side, and somewhat outside, is the pleura. Thus the deep incision, in which the work must be done, offers hardly any space, and when we add the possibility, even proba- bility, that even this narrow area may be still further diminished by encroach- ment of the aneurismal sac, it will at once be understood that the operator must be bold and confident who would undertake such a task ; nevertheless, the deligation has been effected once, by Dr. Kearney Rodgers, of New York,3" •whose description of the operation, as both instructive and monitory, may here be abridged.4 The external incision was the same as that above described for tying the right sub- clavian ; the inner three-fourths of the sterno-mastoid muscle was divided.5 On turn- ing up the muscle, a portion of the aneurismal sac, strongly pulsating, was brought into- view overlapping half the width of the scalenus. The fascia being torn, the deeper work had to be carried on between the aneurism on the outer, and the jugular vein on the inner side, aiming at the inner edge of the scalenus, half an inch above its origin, so as to avoid the thoracic duct; when this point was reached, the vessel was found without difficulty by pressing the finger downward. The needle with removable point was used to pass the ligature, “ great care being necessary to detach the artery and to avoid danger to the pleura and thoracic duct.” Very little immediate shock followed the operation. On the tenth day, a cough commenced ; on the thirteenth, secondary hemorrhage set in,, and the case terminated fatally on the sixteenth. At the autopsy, “ a large, irregular, lacerated opening was found in the pleura,” and the cavity was filled with coagulated blood. “ The artery had been completely divided by the ligature, which was found loose in the wound. The stump of the sub- clavian, between the aorta and ligature, presented the appearance of a round, solid cord, about one and a quarter inches long, impervious to water and air.” Beyond the liga- ture, no plug other than a soft, quite recent clot, occupied the lumen of the artery; the vertebral was given off immediately at the point of ligature, and contained a like clot, evidently formed only just before death ; the internal mammary, also, was patulous and healthy. 1 Afterwards the subclavian was ligatured by A. B. Mott; see table of cases of consecutive- double distal ligature. 2 See Appendix to this Article, containing account of Mr. Thompson’s case of innominate liga- tion with the ox-aorta ligature. 3 Sir Astley Cooper tried to tie this vessel, but abandoned the attempt, believing that he had wounded the thoracic duct. 4 The case is given at length in the New York Med. Journal, 1846. 6 It is not stated what was done with the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; they are simply mentioned as seen, covered by the fascia.