INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 38 tions, as to pressure or irritation, are, of course, of value in determining the course and character of this disease. Progressive anaemia is always associated with the hypertrophy of the glands, wherever situate, accompanied with sweating, nervous depression, and often syncope. As regards the condition of the blood, there is, perhaps, no increase in the white corpuscles, though the red are much diminished, and it is so much paler in appearance than normal blood, that Gowers has compared it to “ diluted claret.” We invariably observe mental depression or hysteria in these cases. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of lymphadenosis is not always easy. We have to differentiate it from cancer, scrofula, and leucocythsemia, and in the outset of the disease the diagnosis is probably impossible. In lymphadenitis, as before stated, on examining the blood, we find that the red corpuscles are diminished in number, while the number of the white corpuscles is unchanged, although we may have leucocythcemia coexistent, as instanced by general lymphatic enlargement and an increased number of white corpuscles. In the diagnosis from struma or scrofula, which again may be coexistent, we may be guided by the marked absence of the tendency to periadenitis, suppura- tion, or degeneration and softening, which we always meet with in enlarged strumous glands. These glands in struma, rarely, if ever, attain the enormous size they do in lymphadenitis, and are slower in growth; moreover, a-few only of a group of glands are affected, whereas in lymphadenosis the gland invasion is general, and there is an absence of the nodular, hard, banded masses so noticeable in struma. In its differentiation from cancer, which is rarely a primary glandular affec- tion, we notice that lymphadenosis is invariably so; we also observe its early development, the freedom of movement of the superficial integument, and the presence of splenic or thyroid mischief; and on microscopic examina- tion we find that the cell growth is lymphoid in lymphadenosis, and epi- thelial in carcinoma. The diagnosis between sarcoma proper and malignant lymphoma is of im- portanoe, since in the latter extirpation of the gland holds out no chance of success, whereas a timely removal of a sarcomatous gland may do so. The essential difference, according to Winiwarter, “ seems to be the fact that lym- phoma consists of a hyperplastic process, while such tumors only are to be re- garded as sarcomatous, as in type have nothing in common with the mother tissue.” Sarcoma extends directly to neighboring tissues, and is liable to retro- grade metamorphosis and ulceration. Anatomically, we may distinguish two forms of malignant lymphoma, the hard and the soft, but, as originally suggested by Virchow, there does not appear to be any clinical difference between them. The distinction, indeed, according to Langhaus, is not accurately definitive, for we may meet with a mixed form in the same individual. In the soft form, as far as it interests the surgeon, the several glands forming the group can be readily made out; the integuments, as a rule, are non-adherent, and glide freely over the mass, and it is very rare to find the growth invading neighboring tissues. With regard to the microscopic appearances of these two forms, it would seem that “there is no essential contrast between them; in the soft form the cell formation is more abundant, and the new formation preserves mainly the embryonic character, while in the hard form the new growth undergoes a species of fibrous metamorphosis.” (Birch-Hirschfeld.) Wilks places lymphadenosis clinically between tubercle and cancer, and Gowers says, that “ in order to explain the phenomena of Hodgkin’s disease,