289 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. the most sure, and that it should therefore be preferred. This, too, is Se- dillot’s opinion. [The innominate artery appears to have been tied in 23 cases, including that recently recorded by Mr. W. Thomson, of Dublin. With one exception (the case operated upon by Dr. Smyth, of blew Orleans), all have proved fatal.] Dr. Smyth ligatured the innominate one-fourth of an inch below its bifur- cation, for traumatic aneurism of the subclavian, tying also the common caro- tid one inch above its origin. Hemorrhage occurred on the fifteenth, thirty- third, and fifty-first day, and was controlled in each instance by filling the wound with shot. On the fifty-fourth day the bleeding again recurred, and then the vertebral was tied; after that, the case progressed, without inter- ruption, to complete recovery. [The patient survived ten years, ultimately dying of hemorrhage from the aneurismal sac, into which the blood had made its way through the subscapular artery.] Ligation of the Common Carotid Artery.— This artery was first tied for aneurism by Sir Astley Cooper, in a woman, aged 44, at Guy’s Hospital, in 1805.1 The patient died, however, on the nineteenth day. The same surgeon repeated the operation, in 1808, with success. Surgical Anatomy.—The right common carotid artery extends from the innominate, that is, from the right sterno-clavicular articulation, to the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage; the left common carotid extends from the highest point of the aortic arch, also to the upper edge of the thyroid carti- lage; the left is therefore longer than the right. The relations of both, in the neck, are identical; the direction of each is oblique from before backward, and from within outward, along the external side of the trachea and larynx, in a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw. The sheath of each is derived from the deep cervical fascia, and contains also the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve, the artery being on the inner side, the vein on the outer side, and the nerve between them. At the root of the neck, the artery lies deeply, and it should not be ligatured at this point, unless absolutely necessary. It is covered, in this part, by the skin and platysma myoides, the superficial and deep fasciae, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, in front; externally, it is in relation with the pneu- mogastric nerve and internal jugular vein; internally, with the trachea; behind, with the longus colli and rectus anticus major muscles, together with the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae: On the right side, the internal jugular vein recedes from the artery; but, on the left, it approaches and often overlaps the artery. The carotid tubercle of Chassaignac, which is the anterior projection of the transverse process of the sixth cervical verte- bra, is a precise guide to the artery when the neck is straight. It is from two to three inches above the clavicle (Holmes), and the artery lies in front and a little to the inner side of it. At the root of the neck the operation may be done in the following man- ner (Fig. 472):— 1 Mr. Abernethy, however, in 1798, had tied the primitive carotid, in the case of a man gored in the neck by a cow, the primary branches of the external carotid being torn off, and the inter- nal carotid opened. Finding that he could stop the bleeding by compressing the common trunk between his thumb and a finger within the wound, he placed a ligature around the vessel. The bleeding was suppressed, but the patient died about thirty hours after the operation (Surg. Observations, vol. ii. p. 72, Am. ed.). Mr. Fleming, in 1803, successfully ligatured the primi- tive carotid for hemorrhage from a self-inflicted wound of the neck (Medico-Cliirurgical Journal, vol. iii. p. 50). But, to Sir Astley Cooper the credit is unquestionably due of having first planned and executed this operation, in 1805, for the relief of aneurism. VOL. III.—19