HERNIA OF MU.SCLE. 3 but rendering it difficult, oftentimes impossible, to produce any close approx- imation, or to maintain it, if secured; still, by rest, position, and appropriate bandaging, with the plaster-of-Paris or the elastic-rubber bandage rather than the ordinary roller, much may be done. Cutting down upon the torn ends and suturing them either with wire or catgut has been advised. Union, which, unless there has been extensive extravasation of blood or suppuration, may be expected, is ordinarily effected by means of an interplaced connective- tissue band, of length dependent upon the degree of retraction. Occasionally, as in rare cases of wound, perfect anatomical as well as functional repair takes place, the new muscular elements being developed either from the cellules on the inner surface of the sarcolemma, the connective-tissue corpuscles of the perimysium, or the migrated white corpuscles ; or, as is not at all improbable, from all three sources. "Wounds oe Muscles.—These may be either subcutaneous or open, and, like ruptures, are attended with retraction and hemorrhage, symptoms which are, as a rule, much more marked in the open than in the subcutaneous variety. While the subcutaneous wounds are ordinarily injuries of but little moment—the extravasated blood being rapidly absorbed, little or no inflam- mation occurring, and early and very satisfactory repair taking place—the open ones are lesions of very much more importance, the large gap between the divided ends (all the larger because of the free division of the sheath) filling up only through granulations, and the resulting connective-tissue cica- trix very imperfectly substituting the original muscular fibres. As the effects of wounds resemble those of rupture, so the treatment is much the same—rest, compression, and approximation as close as possible of the divided ends. In the open wound such approximation can never be very close, and any attempt to increase it by the use of sutures is apt to result in failure, owing to the strong probability of an early tearing-out of the stitches, because of the inflam- matory changes produced in the fibres even at some little distance from the wound. Hi 5RNIA oe Muscle.—Consequent upon the presence of an abnormal open- ing in the investing aponeurosis, muscular protrusion may take place; such an opening being the result of a laceration, at the time of a sudden, violent muscular action, or of a wound (as from the passage of a bullet) not followed, as it ordinarily is, by complete union, but by cicatricial rounding off of the edges. These hernise when suddenly produced- are generally associated with acute myositis, and, whether slowly or rapidly developed, with decided im- pairment of the functional integrity of the affected muscles. Diagnosis.—Muscular hernise may be confounded with muscular ruptures— in certain locations, with intestinal hernise—with blood-tumors, or with ab- scesses. The diagnosis is ordinarily, however, not difficult. There is notice- able a marked fulness at the time of muscular contraction, disappearing when relaxation takes place, such fulness being more or less firm to the touch ac- cording to the degree of muscular development. In the acute cases all move- ment of the injured parts is painful, in many cases so painful that the use of the muscle is for the time being abolished. When the opening has long existed it can usually be readily detected upon pressure, and if while the fin- ger is kept upon it contraction of the underlying muscle is brought on, the fibres can be felt swelling up into the aperture. The treatment in acute cases consists in rest and methodical pressure, which usually will secure closure of the opening; failing to effect such, the edges of the fascial laceration must be freshened and united by sutures. In old- standing cases this is the only way in which a cure can be effected. In the