86 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. cible manner, neither of them had perfectly effaced the lumen of the vessel, but so incompletely that a large stylet could easily penetrate it. This fact is sufficient to pro- scribe the surgeon’s knot forever in operations for hemorrhage, as well as in those for aneurism. I have, myself, often observed that ligatures tied with the surgeon’s knot do not completely close arteries in the cadaver. Showing how to draw the knot. The tightening of the knot (which, as stated above, must always be & reef or square knot, and never a “granny” or a surgeon’s knot, at least when tying bloodvessels) should he Fig- 385. done with the tips of the index- fingers or the thumbs, placed near the knot itself (Fig. 385); taking care, also, that the thread is placed above the point where the forceps grasps or the tenaculum pierces the vessel to be tied. When the tightening of the knot is finished, one end of the ligature, if it be of carbolized silk or similar material, should be cut off near the knot, and the other should be brought out of the ivound. Every ligature should be carefully treated in the same manner, except in amputations, where it is customary to bring out both ends of the ligature pertaining to the main artery and knot them together, in order to distinguish this ligature from the others. The wound itself is then freed from all coagula, and carefully cleansed by washing or sponging with carbolized water or some other anti- septic liquid, the edges approximated and carefully secured in apposition by interrupted sutures and strips of adhesive plaster, an antiseptic dressing being placed over all. Thus the last step in the operation of immediate ligation of a wounded artery is completed. Among our predecessors, the operation of mediate ligation, by which the tissues surrounding the artery were also included in the ligature, and thus the artery was compressed by the ligature through the medium of those tissues, was in vogue. In our own day, good surgeons still advise that diseased vessels—for instance, those that are calcified and have very brittle walls—should have a cushion of soft parts tied about them to the end that the ligature shall not separate too soon, or prior to the permanent occlusion of the canal by adhesive inflammation. Professor Agnew says that he has often adopted this plan with gratifying success. But in mediate, as well as in immediate, ligation of arteries, the accompanying nerves should be ex- cluded from the ligature. Manec’s plan of placing a piece of bougie in the tube of the artery before tying it, as well as the elder Cline’s plan of using a flat ligature and interposing a piece of cork between it and the artery, and Scarpa’s substitution of a piece of linen for the cork, are, how'ever, of very doubtful value. The advantages of all similar contrivances are, too, exceed- ingly doubtful, for Agnew declares that he cannot recall an instance of secon- dary hemorrhage in such a condition of the arteries, where the ordinary ligature has been employed, and that he thinks the danger over-estimated. My own experience and views are in full accord with this statement. When the carbolized silk ligature is applied to an artery, its inner and middle coats are, in general, divided with more or less regularity, and the outer coat is so constricted as to completely arrest the flow of blood in the vessel at the place of ligation. (Fig. 386.)