321 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. inner edge of the tibia, make an incision parallel leg. (S6dillot.) Fig. 505. nerve, the popliteal vein, and the artery. The nerve and vein are to be drawn inward, and the needle passed from within outward. (3) To ligature the popliteal artery below the internal condyle of the tibia, semiflex the leg, and lay it upon the outer side. The operator, standing on the external side of the limb, should feel for the internal side of the muscular mass which bounds the popliteal space internally and below. He makes an incision, two and a half inches in length, from above down- ward, from without inward, and from <^f behind forward, along the edge of the internal head of the gastrocnemius muscle, within half an inch of the in- ternal border of the tibia (Fig. 505), taking care to avoid the internal saphenous vein. He then divides the crural aponeurosis a little further back than the skin, and introduces a Anger to break down the intermuscular septum, the leg being flexed on the thigh to relax the muscles. Fig. 505 represents the nerve as seen at the bottom of the wound, the artery to the inner side, and the accompanying vein drawn outward. of the popliteal artery below tli dyle of the tibia. (Sedilloc.) Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—The posterior tibial artery passes obliquely downward along the tibial side of the leg, from the bifurca- tion of the popliteal artery at the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the concavity of the os calcis, where it divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. Its course is indicated by a line drawn from the centre of the popliteal space to a point just behind the inner malleolus. In the upper third of the leg, the artery lies very deep, being covered by the tibialis posticus, the deep fascia, the soleus, and the gastrocnemius, as well as by the skin and superficial Fig. 506. fascia. Operation.—At a distance of two-thirds of an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, make an incision not less than four inches in length, through the integu- ments and deep fascia; with the index finger in the wound, detach and push outward the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and likewise separate the attachments of the soleus, thus exposed, from the posterior surface of the tibia; next, whilst an assistant draws this mus- cle backward and outward with a blunt hook, divide the deep layer of the crural fascia upon a director, and search for the artery immediately underneath; separate the artery from its venae comites and from the poste- rior tibial nerve, and be careful not to include either of them while passing the needle around the artery. In the middle third of the leg, the artery lies more superficial, running parallel to the inner edge of the tibia, from which it is separated by the flexor longus dig'itorum muscle. It is covered by the internal border of the soleus. It is accompanied by two veins, and the posterior tibial nerve here lies on its inner side. Operation.—Three-fourths of an inch behind the vol. hi.—21 Ligation of the posterior tibial artery at the middle third of the