196 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. the hepatic disorder. The hemorrhage from small veins, when wounded, seldom gives trouble, and can always he controlled by removing the obstruc- tion which causes it. But when large venous trunks, as, for instance, the innominate, the internal jugular, the subclavian, or the axillary, are divided, death follows in a few minutes from the loss of blood, as the cases to be related will abundantly show. The flow of blood from wounded veins in the neck is remarkably affected by the respiratory movements. During inspiration, when the walls of the thorax are expanded, and when no obstacle is offered to the passage of the blood toward the right side of the heart, the wounded vein remains shrunken or partially collapsed, without shedding a drop of blood; but in expiration, when the thorax becomes contracted, when the great venous channels at the root of the neck become compressed by the lessened diameter of the thorax, and there is a momentary pause in the downward flow of the stream, the blood wells up in the breach as from a fountain. The wounds of deep veins, even those that are not large, always have a grave importance when the injured vessels are so situated that the blood can flow from their open mouths into one of the great cavities of the body, as, for instance, the cavity of the abdomen, that of the thorax, or th,at of the cranium for in this way a fatal hemorrhage may ensue—a hemorrhage, too, over which art has but little control. The wounds of veins, like the wounds of arteries, may, for purposes of study and description, be advantageously classified as follows:— 1. Incised and punctured wounds. 2. Contused wounds. 3. Lacerated wounds and ruptures. 4. Gunshot wounds. In incised, in lacerated, and in gunshot wounds, the vessel, as a tube, may be either partially or completely divided. In punctured wounds the division is, of course, always incomplete; and, in contused wounds the vein is not, as a rule, opened until the bruised portion separates as a slough. When a vein is completely divided, its ends contract, although somewhat less than the ends of a severed artery ; they also retract into the sheath. The natural haemostasis is promoted by these movements, and by the formation of a coagulum around the orifice. But these processes are slow in their op- eration, very feeble, and practically insufficient, at least in the case of large veins. When, therefore, deep veins of large size are divided and cannot be treated, a fatal result rapidly ensues from the hemorrhage. When veins of some magnitude are partially divided, the bleeding often gives much trouble. It does not, however, when the injured vessel is super- ficial, and is located in one of the extremities, because by elevating the. limb, and by applying a compress over the wounded part with carefully adjusted pressure by means of adhesive strips or a roller, we can almost always sup- press the bleeding, and then, in three or four days, union by adhesion may fairly be expected. After the hemorrhage is controlled, the wounds of veins, as a rule, heal very quickly. They often unite by the first intention, and heal so perfectly as not to leave any appearance of a scar. The repair of wounds made in veins differs in no essential respect from the same process in arteries. . The blood pressure or tension of the circulation in wounded veins, however, is not strong enough to separate the adhesion of the lips or margins while, union by the first intention is taking place. Hence, the wounds of veins in one respect heal very differently from the wounds of arteries. While the tubes of the latter are almost invariably obliterated in the human subject, even after punctured wounds, the wounded tunics of a vein can readily be repaired