199 WOUNDS OP VEINS. Thus it is clearly shown what should he done when the internal jugular vein is gashed, whether accidentally by a surgeon in operating on the sur- rounding parts, or designedly by an assassin; the bleeding must be restrained by compressing the wound, with the fingers if possible, until the vessel is securely tied on each side of the aperture in its walls. The large veins of the extremities when cut open, whether by accident or by design, should be treated on the same plan if compression is inadequate to suppress the bleeding, as was done by the late Dr. George McClellan in the following instance:— In extirpating from a gentleman’s groin a large fibrous tumor, which was wedged into the external crural ring and the femoral canal, and while detaching it from the femoral vein, he found the saphena interna involved in the substance of the tumor, just as it emptied into the trunk vein. He was obliged to divide it there; and afterward failing to restrain a tremendous gush of black blood by pressure, he pursed up the orifice by a spring tenaculum and Liston’s forceps, and had a fine silk thread tied around the margin. This succeeded perfectly in restraining the hemorrhage, and was followed by no inconvenience. He remarks that it was the largest venous orifice he ever saw liga- tured, and that it was large enough to admit one of his ring-fingers.1 Punctured wounds are sometimes accidentally made by surgeons in the walls of large veins, with the points of their scalpels, while removing tumors. In a case which I saw some years ago, where the internal jugular was punc- tured in this manner while dissecting out a deep-seated tumor of the neck, the margins of the puncture were drawn together and raised up by a Liston’s forceps, and a ligature was tied around them on the side of the vessel—that is, a lateral ligature was applied. This proceeding was successful. Never- theless, it should not be imitated, because of the great risk of secondary hem- orrhage which attends it. Dor example, it is reported on the authority of Nelaton, that Roux tried lateral ligation of the internal jugular in three cases, but that all of them proved fatal from secondary hemorrhage about the sixteenth day.2 In such cases the primary bleeding should he controlled if possible by compression, and if, after a fair trial, this is found inadequate, the wounded vein must be ligatured above and below the puncture. The Army Medical Museum contains a specimen of punctured wound of a large vein. It consists of “ a wet preparation of the left femoral vein pierced by a darning- needle. Private B. A., ‘A,’ 5th Iowa, 40; a conoidal ball passed through Scarpa’s triangle without directly injuring the bloodvessels, Vicksburg, 19th May; admitted to hospital with wound in a sloughing condition, Memphis, 27th ; hemorrhage checked by compression, 31st of May ; wound opened and needle extracted from the sheath at 2 P. M.; artery ligated for secondary hemorrhage at 8 P. M.; died at IIP. M., 1st June, 1863.”3 The veins in the extremities are often punctured by the fragments in cases where the long hones are fractured. Ip such cases, considerable tumefactions not unfrequently arise from the extravasations of venous blood, but, as a rule, they speedily subside under the combined influence of quietude and moderate compression. The large veins in the neck, etc., are sometimes pierced in a fatal manner, in gunshot wounds, by the splinters of bone that are broken off by musket-halls. For instance, Stromeyer, in 1849, had a case of gunshot fracture of the lower jaw, in which fragments of the bone were driven deep into the throat. The man “ died suddenly on the fourth day, in the presence of his attending physician, a thick stream of dark blood issuing from his 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery, pp. 194, 195. Foot-note. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1867, p. 327. 3 See Catalogue, A. M. M., p. 472, Spec. 2020.