SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 417 Taking what later (after 1877) records are available, I find 8 cases. Of the several patients. 4 died during treatment,1 1 was not improved, and died in 13 months,2 2 were benefited, but not cured,3 1 was cured4 or greatly benefited. The aneurisms best adapted to this treatment are, undoubtedly, those about the upper part of the aorta, which are not very large, hut which have already perforated, or at least pushed forward, the chest wall. Mere fusiform dilata- tions are probably quite beyond hope of benefit, since the blood must in them sweep past the needles too rapidly to be affected by the galvanic current. A sacculated aneurism with a protruding diverticulum, or, still better, one that is set like a bud on the vessel, and has not too large a mouth, so that the cir- culation may he somewhat slow, is certainly the most hopeful form for this treatment, because in such a sac the retarded current affords to the galvanism some chance of producing a clot which may afterwards extend, and which is less likely to be washed away. The dangers of galvano-puncture are bleeding from the needle punctures (hardly to be regarded, unless very large needles have been used); formation of an eschar, or of an abscess, between the skin and sac; inflammation of the sac; embolism ;5 and sudden depression of the vital powers—but in truth none of these save embolism are very imminent or potent. We cannot quit this subject without staying to consider the two parts of which the treatment consists, namely, the galvanic current and the foreign body, as likewise the possibility that the presence of the needle has as much, perhaps more, to do with the benefit when it accrues, than has the galvanism. If Messrs. Heath, Marshall, Macewen, and Paul, are correct in their statements, we have evidence of about an equal rate of benefit on the introduction of needles, whether or no they be connected to a battery.6 M. Paul, in his paper above quoted, asserts that the benefit in either form of treatment is not due to coagulation, but to an inflammation of the aneurismal wall which thus becomes thickened. Parenchymatous Injection of Ergotine.—In connection with the treatment by injections, another method may be mentioned, which does not, however, aim to effect a cure by directly producing coagulation, but is rather a topical application of strictly medical measures. The 'parenchymatous injection of ergotine was introduced, in 1869, by Langenbeck, who exhibited two cases so treated at the Berlin Medical Society. He prefaced his remarks with these words “ It is well known that in obstetric medicine the secale cornutum is a very valuable remedy; it acts by stimulating and calling forth uterine contractions, 1 Two, Thoracic Aorta. Drummond. Lancet, Aug. 9, 1879. One, “ “ Gardner. British Medical Journal, July 19, 1879. One, Abdominal Aorta. Moudan. Lyon Medicale, No. 4, 1879. 2 Omboni. The case is described as improved, but it is not easy to see in what the improve- ment consisted. II Raccoglitore Medico, Febbr. 1877. (Thoracic Aorta.) 3 Carter. Lancet, Nov. 30, 1878. Boucquoy. Progres Medicale, No. 4, 1879. 4 Verradini. Gazetta Med. Ital. Lomb. No. 3,1878. A very rapid, apparent cure (24 minutes) ; ice and rest afterwards. Relapse in 10 weeks ; same treatment again produced seeming benefit, which was of longer duration. 6 Dr. Clifford Allbutt found in a case of subclavian aneurism the opposite carotid obstructed. Brit. Med. Journ., May 20, 1876. 6 Since this was written, a case has been reported in the Lancet, Oct. 22, 1881, of an aneurism, either aortic or aorto-innominate, greatly benefited or perhaps cured by electro-puncture. The surgeon who reports the case, himself observes that, after using the Stohrers battery for an hour, lie tested the current on his forehead, and found it almost nil, and that therefore the result may have been attributable to the mere presence of the needles. VOL. III.—27