197 WOUNDS OF VEINS. without at all diminishing its calibre. We all know how seldom the canal of a vein has been obliterated by the operation of venesection; and the same disposition to maintain the permeability and lumen of its canal is witnessed after most wounds in which a vein is partially divided. In a case recorded by Guthrie, where the internal jugular was cut into, the cure at the end of eight days was found to be so complete, that the vessel was not only pervious, but without a mark to indicate where the wound had been. The following example shows how injured veins heal when ligatured:— Professor Langenbeck, while removing an epithelial cancer, wounded the internal jugular vein, and tied the cardiac end only, there being no hemorrhage from the distal end. The common carotid artery being involved in the tumor was tied with two threads and divided. When operated on, the man had bronchitis, from which he died on the twelfth day. A necroscopy showed the vein completely healed as if by the first intention, without the slightest trace of redness, thickening of its walls, or formation of a clot. Travers was the first to show that veins, when ligatured or divided, united without any adhesive inflammation. The fact is, the venous tunics when wounded heal more perfectly than almost any other structures in the whole body. The hemorrhage from wounded veins should be restrained, (1) by raising up or elevating the wounded part; (2) by carefully applying pressure by means of well-adjusted compresses, with adhesive strips or bandages; (3) when these prove inadequate, by applying ligatures, without hesitation, above and below the seat of injury. The ligatures should consist of carbolized catgut, and antiseptic dressings should be applied to the wound. All the measures for restraining hemorrhage from wounded arteries are applicable to wounded veins; and the ligation of veins is as free from special danger as the ligation of arteries. To ligature a large vein in its continuity, the surgeon should pass around it the blunt end of an eyed probe, or a Mott’s aneurism needle, armed with a thread of carbolized catgut, carefully separating the vein from the accompa- nying artery and nerve, but to no greater extent than is absolutely necessary. Incised and Punctured Wounds of Veins.—In every act of venesection a punctured or an incised wound of a vein is made. In most amputations the section of large veins is a matter of necessity. In many of the subcutaneous operations for tenotomy or myotomy, the lesser veins are punctured or divided. Sometimes, too, the great venous channels are accidentally opened by sur- geons. Wounds of veins thus made generally heal quickly and kindly; and we may well say, therefore, that the incised are the least harmful of all the venous wounds. The incised and punctured forms of venous wounds often occur in the common accidents of life; they are, likewise, frequently made by persons in attempts to destroy their own lives; they are, too, not unfre- quently inflicted with the weapons of war and in warfare; and finally, they are sometimes inflicted by persons while committing, or attempting to com- mit, the crime of murder, and hence they are important in a medico-legal point of view. The following example comes under the last named-head :■— Mary Dean, a young mulatto girl, was gashed in the left side of her neck, about 10 P. M., June 13, 1880, by Augustus D. Leighton, a jealous lover, with a razor, during an interview, while standing in the street near the basement door of her home. Her aunt, who was looking on from a window above, testified: “ I saw him make a sweep with his hand, and Mary vanished into the basement; it was all over in a moment; I found her in the basement, on the floor, all covered with blood, and dead.” Another eye-