TREATMENT OP HEMORRHAGE BY CAUTERIZATION. 103 knitting-needles, iron-wires, etc. They may easily be extemporized from pieces of telegraph wire by rolling up one end into a spiral form, filing the other end to a point, and push- ing it into a piece of wood to serve as a handle. (Fig. 411.) In applying the cautery for hemorrhage, care must be taken that the iron is heated only to a dull red color; for, should it be raised to a bright red or white heat, it may defeat its own purpose by destroying the artery too exten- sively, or by bringing away the eschar stuck fast to the iron, thus leaving the vessel unclosed. When practicable, the heated iron should be passed through a glass tube down to the bleeding orifice, in order to shield the surrounding parts from injury. The late Dr. George McClellan, of Philadelphia, in this way, introduced red hot wires of the largest size down the throat and up the nostrils, to check the hemorrhage from bleeding vascular tumors, with perfect safety. Fig. 412. Fig. 411. Cautery-irons improvised from telegraph wire, after Brandis. (Esmarch.) Tiemann’s thermo-cautery apparatus. The thermo-cautery instrument is a very ingenious and useful contrivance introduced by Paquelin, by which the cauterizer or platinum point may very quickly be raised to a bright red or even a white heat, and may have the same degree of heat kept up for any length of time without any difficulty whatever. It is peculiarly well adapted for operative procedures in the mouth, vao-ina and rectum. By attaching a blade to it, incisions that are bloodless may be made, and with an ecraseur of platinum wire, tumors may be removed in a bloodless manner also. In preparing the instrument for use (Fig. 412), the button-screw cap is to be removed from the receiver, and benzine or gasoline is to be poured into it until the wool which it contains is saturated with the liquid, but no more than that. On replacing the cap, the receiver itself may be suspended from a button-hole by means of the hook which projects from one end of it. By working the elastic bulb or pump at the lower end of the instrument, air is forced into the receiver in a steady stream, where it becomes saturated with benzine or gasoline; thence the mixed gases are forced upward through the platinum cone at the upper end of the instrument, into the platinum point, Ho. 1, which is attached to it. Ignition may be started with a match. The5 degree of heat is adjusted to that which is required, from dull red to white by drawing the platinum cone down upon the cylinder. A stopcock reo-u-