INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 734 excisions are demanded by caries of the head of the femur or secondary involvement of the joint, resulting from fractures in the trochanteric region or wounds of the soft parts in the immediate vicinity of the joint. Expectant treatment is to be condemned in all cases in which the diagnosis of direct injury to the articulation can be clearly established. Professor F. H. Hamilton, in view of the fearful mortality, doubts the correctness of this conclusion. Ashhurst thinks that excision is the safest course. Gant favors excision as furnishing almost the only hope. Conclusions.—A careful study of the subject shows that the best treatment of gunshot fracture of the hip-joint is not yet scientifically determined,’ for, although Otis did not succeed in satisfying himself that any of the reported cases under expectant treatment were correctly diagnosed, yet we must remember that neither did he prove that they were incorrectly diagnosed. If even a few of them were what they were supposed to he, then the results were equal or superior to those of excision or amputation. Where the mor- tality of operations is such that from ninety-two to ninety-nine out of a hundred die, we may well hesitate, and hold our judgment in suspense, wait- ing for more light. The' present state of our knowledge is this :— (1) Mortality of primary amputations 99 per cent. (2) Mortality of primary excisions 92 per cent. (3) Mortality of expectant treatment unknown. It may be that Otis is correct in saying that, in all cases, a primary excision is, if possible, to be performed, but it is plain that we have no decisive, scien- tific proof of it. Under such grave circumstances, we should remember that we are not limited to a choice between amputation, excision, and pure expec- tancy, for there is a fourth course open to us. When we consider that a large part of the mortality of cases under expec- tant treatment seems to be due to the septicaemia induced by putrid pus, con- fined under pressure in contact with fractured cancellous tissue, and bur- rowing in vast abscesses down the thigh, we readily see that, by resolute treatment, we may hope to avert much of this danger. If the joint, when first seen, were freely laid open, if dead fragments were very cautiously extracted, and if thorough antiseptic drainage and washing out were established, the results might probably be better than those of either ampu- tation or excision. At all events, they could not be much worse, and, until this plan shall have been well tested, we cannot consider the discussion closed. There are certain cases, however, which afford us no opportunity for choice. These are fractures of the joint complicated with other injuries that destroy the life of the limb, without causing such an amount of shock as to render amputation altogether hopeless. In such cases, there is no escape from the necessity of removing the member. Gunshot Fractures of the Knee-joint.—Next to fracture of the hip, this is the most dangerous of all the gunshot injuries of joints. Unlike the cor- responding injury of the hip-joint, the diagnosis presents no serious difficulty, and may generally be made out by the probe, by the insertion of the finger, or even by external manipulation. Few surgeons at first realize the terrible destruction made by the passage of a musket-ball through the knee. The limb looks fair and shapely, with only a small blue spot to mark the entrance of the projectile, and a slight rent of the skin at the wound of exit, and many a well-educated medical officer, in his first battle, feels the painful struggle of judgment in deciding to sacrifice a limb which shows such trifling, external marks of injury. If he amputates the limb, however, and dissects it, he will never hesitate again. The beautifully white and comely knee,