WOUNDS OP THE MIDDLE MENINGEAL ARTERY. 231 Ibid., p. 527. Foot-note. 2 Ibid., p. 613. cardial sac with inflammatory products cause much dyspnoea or cardiac embarrassment, they must be withdrawn by paracentesis. Absolute quietude of body and mind must be maintained for a long time, with liquid alimen- tation in concentrated and easily digestible forms. Wounds of the Pulmonary Artery.—-Traumatic lesions of this vessel almost always prove quickly fatal. But Timacus of Colberg records the case of a nobleman, stabbed through the right axilla, between the third and fourth ribs, the blade wounding the pulmonary artery. Frothy blood flowed externally, and there were frequent syncopes; still the wounded man lived three days.1 Wounds of the Pulmonary Veins.—In the first surgical volume of the history of our civil war, at page 588, is recorded a case in which a conoidal ball penetrated the left chest, and lodged, on October 27, 1864:— The patient suffered much from dyspnoea and frequent painful cough. He steadily grew worse, and died on November 11 of secondary hemorrhage from the left pulmonary vein. Autopsy—The missile, as shown in the accompanying wood-cuts (Figs. 434 and 435), was found lodged against the left pulmonary vein, which had been opened by it. Dr. Otis refers to Specimen 3388, A. M. M., represented above (Fig. 434), as suggesting a possible explanation of the way in which balls and other foreign bodies may gain admission to the cavities of the heart without leaving any trace of wound in the walls of that organ, viz., by gradual absorption of the wall of the pulmonary vein compressed by the extraneous body.2 In the above case, the missile probably contused the tunics of the pulmonary vein, and thus laid the foundation for secondary hemorrhage to occur when the bruised tissue should separate by ulceration, and open the vessel. This vessel, from its peculiar position and wide distribution, is much exposed to injury in simple as well as in compound fractures of the skull, and in the Fig. 434. Fig. 435. Showing the upper half of left lung with a conoidal hall embedded in its substance, and partially occluding the left pulmonary vein. (Spec. 3388, sec. I, A. M. M.) Showing the hall and a piece of lead removed from Spec. 3388. Wounds of the Middle Meningeal Artery.