ANEURISM. 510 fortuitous impaction of clot. Cure can only be ascribed to the influence of treat- ment in the 2 cases which recovered slowly, that is, by gradual consolidation. Of 13 patients subjected to Valsalva’s method, 7 are reported as cured, or in process of cure; but on examination this number shrinks considerably: 2 cases (Guerin) are very likely one and the same; 2 are doubtful as to the, nature of the tumor; 1 patient was not cured, passing from observation almost immediately after treatment had been begun, and with little benefit; in l! spontaneous cure fortuitously began with or'before the treatment; 1 got well during acute enteritis; 1 recovered under the influence of a poisonous dose of aconite (Pancoast).1 Compression.—Proximal compression was rendered facile in a case under the care of Mr. Poland, by an arterial abnormity combined probably with the development of a cervical rib. The aneurism was cured. Another successful case recorded by Dutoit, is referred to in the sequel. Of the results of direct compression, it is hardly possible to acquire any ac- curate numerical knowledge; probably nearly every quickly increasing an- eurism has, at some part of its course, been restrained, or attempted to be restrained, by some bandage or pad; and a few of these cases have got well, as in Yeatman’s case, without any clear sequence between treatment and cure ;2 or an accidental detachment of clot, as in Corner’s case, has occurred under a protecting leather cap ;3 or an accident rupturing the aneurism has caused, by the blood-pressure, obliteration of the artery and afterwards sup- puration ;4 or, as in another case5 recorded by the same surgeon, the ten days’ very moderate pressure may have set up the first increment towards gradual consolidation; or the cure may have been fortuitous and spontaneous. In- deed, the only clear case of cure by direct pressure is that of Mr. Holmes.6 The tumor was the size of a chestnut, and lay on the third part of the vessel; the index finger was gangrenous. The arm was enveloped in cotton-wool, and an India-rubber ball was bandaged upon the swelling with gradually increas- ing pressure, for about six weeks, and after five days’ intermission was again employed for ten days; after this, an instrument was adapted. Gradual con- solidation took place; and the man was seen a year afterwards with barely a trace of the disease—a most gratifying result, which should encourage a trial of this method, but a result which we cannot expect frequently to follow, unless, as in this instance must have been the case, there exist a great ten- dency to spontaneous cure.7 Manipulation is a mode of treatment suggested by events which occur spontaneously with such frequency that we should not exclude it from our resources, especially in dealing with a disease which offers to the sur- geon so few points of vantage. It should be very cautiously resorted to in subclavian aneurism; the danger of embolism in the brain, through the ver- tebrals, and on the right side through the carotid also, must be duly weighed. 1 In my table I have marked one of the Guerin cases as doubtful, put two others in the same category, and relegated the one not cured to its proper place, as also those influenced by poison and disease ; this leaves one case as cured by Valsalva’s method. 2 Med. and Phys. Journ., vol. xxxiii. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lii. p. 303. Mr. Corner entitles his case one of Right Subclavian Aneurism cured by Direct Compression ; and Mr. Poland has accepted this nomen- clature. The first treatment, rest, diet, and ice, resulted in “no benefit;” tben “ a leather cap was moulded to the swelling and fixed on by straps.” The patient resumed his occupation, and there is no note of improvement. A year afterwards “ he felt himself suddenly bad, experiencing sickness and vertigo, so that he was obliged to hold on to something to prevent his falling ; and on feeling the swelling afterwards no pulsation was found in it.” No clearer evidence of acci- dental clot-impaction is possible. 4 Warren, Surgical Observations, p. 425. 6 Ibid., p. 427. 6 Lancet, Feb. 12, 1876. 7 A case by Dutoit, in which pressure aided other means, will be mentioned immediately.