PAINFUL SUBCUTANEOUS TUBERCLE. 603 tumors are seated upon the same nerve—section of the nerve above the tumor has been practised in several cases, in order to cause the disappearance of the pain. Resection of a portion of the nerve-trunk has also been done in simi- lar cases, instead of a simple neurotomy. The same practice has been advised in cases of secondary cancer of painful and inaccessible nerves. (4) Amputation.—Finally, amputation has been practised in cases of painful multiple neuromata of one and the same region (Smith). In cases of this kind, Arloing and Tripier prefer multiple and associated sections of the nerves, made at the root of the limb. In a case cited by Virchow, amputa- tion of the arm was resorted to for multiple nerve-tumors which were thought to he of a fibro-plastic nature, but which, says Virchow, were nothing but neuromata. Painful Subcutaneous Tubercle.—Under the name of painful subcuta- neous tubercle, there has been described since the time of William Wood, who made the first serious study of it,1 an affection characterized by the existence of a small subcutaneous tumor, of which the principal characteristic is to become extremely painful under the influence of different causes. This affection has further been designated under the names of irritable tumor, ganglion, painful subcutaneous fibroma, and painful neuroma (Virchow). The nature even of the tumor which causes the painful symptoms is vari- able, as we shall see, and it may be asked whether the painful subcutaneous tubercle should be considered and described as a distinct disease, or whether the symptoms which characterize it are not rather accidental phenomena, which may occur to complicate the evolution of different tumors more or less immediately subcutaneous, and which may appear under the influence of causes yet unknown. We shall limit ourselves to proposing this question, the solution of which demands special researches that do not properly belong to an article of this kind, and shall then pass immediately to the clinical study of this affection, and to an exposition of the different views which have been set forth as to its pathological anatomy and nature. Etiology.—Painful subcutaneous tubercle is particularly observed during adult age, from thirty to fifty years. All authors remark its greater frequency in women, and, in certain cases, the coincidence of the beginning of the pains or exacerbations with the menstrual period, with pregnancy, or with the menopause—all circumstances which increase the nervous excitability—so that Broca was able to say that it was the patient who was irritable rather than the tumor. As to traumatism, frequently invoked by patients as in the case of all tumors, its influence is doubtful; perhaps, however, it contributes to the development of the painful symptoms by irritating a tumor which has been previously indolent. As a local cause, the seat of the small tumor plays, perhaps, an important part; indeed, we shall see in studying the pathological anatomy of this affec- tion, that it is most frequently met with in regions where the skin is in direct relation with the bones and articulations. Symptoms.—Pain and tumor, these are the two symptoms of this affection; but they are not ordinarily developed at the same time. Sometimes it is the pain which shows itself before any tumor is appreciable; more often the tumor appears first, and only becomes painful after a longer or shorter period, either in consequence of a traumatism, or spontaneously. The dis- ease once constituted, there is observed a small tumor, which seldom exceeds 1 Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 1812.