INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 686 Pouteau, whose works were edited after his death by Yidal (de Cassis),1 put on record his opinion that the thigh ought to he flexed to a right angle during the time that extension was made, and rotated when it was believed to be sufficiently extended. This, he thought, relaxed the opposing muscles, which, in his day, were considered the chief agents in resisting reduction. In 1811, Dr. Physick2 reduced a dislocation at the hip by flexing the thigh to a right angle and giving the limb a circular sweep, probably much after the manner of Reid, of Rochester. In 1815, Nathan Smith, of the New Haven Medical College, taught that the thigh should be flexed back upon the pelvis and the leg hack upon the thigh, and the thigh carried diagonally to the opposite side, whence it was to he swept outward and downward. He also expressed the opinion that the pulleys and other mechanical sources of power were not necessary in reducing dislocations. This he taught for many years, but he does not seem to have published his views. His son, Dr. Nathan R. Smith, of Baltimore, however, explained his father’s methods, fully and clearly.3 In 1820, Dr. Howe, of Boston, a pupil of Nathan Smith, advocated similar methods and used them in his practice.4 In the early half of this century more than a dozen different surgeons in various parts of the world reported successes by analogous methods. Yet the literature of the subject was in a very confused and disjointed condition, and attracted little attention at large in the profession. In 1851, Dr. W. W. Reid, of Rochester, described three cases of dislocation of the head of the' femur upon the dorsum of the ilium, and accompanied his paper with so accurate a description of his method that other surgeons were able to repeat the manipulation. This paper attracted great attention, and many of the profession assumed that Dr. Reid was the inventor of the method, so that by some it was termed “ Reid’s method.” About this time, Prof. Bigelow, of Boston, commenced a course of investi- gation which was pursued through a series of years, by the aid of careful dissections and experiments upon the cadaver. In 1869 he published his work “The Mechanism of Dislocations and Fractures of the Hip, with the Reduction of Dislocations by the Flexion Method.” In this work the whole subject is thoroughly discussed, including the relation’ of the mechanism of the joint to the movements of manipulation. He placed the whole subject in such system and order that the extension methods soon became obsolete. All the methods of reduction by manipulation are reducible to.two, viz. traction and rotation. (1) Traction.—In this method the operator, with a dorsal dislocation, grasps the lower part of the leg in one hand, and flexes the limb both at the knee and hip, nearly to a right angle, at the same time laying the other hand upon the knee to assist in the movement. The thigh is then adducted and slightly rotated inward, using the leverage of the leg to make rotation. This important step, therefore, consists in carrying the knee and the foot in opposite directions—the knee toward the sound limb, the foot away from it. Thus the head of the femur is lifted out from behind the rim of the acetabu- lum, and at the same time, by the inward rotation of the top of the femur and trochanter, the Y ligament is completely relaxed. The situation is now favorable for easy reduction by very slight traction, only enough force being in general applied to raise the weight of the limb, and to lay the head of the 1 CEuvres Posthumes de Pouteau. Paris, 1783. 3 Dorsey’s Surgery, 1813, vol. i. p. 242. 3 Medical and Surgical Memoirs, by Nathan Smith, M.D., edited by N. R. Smith, M.D., p. 163, Baltimore, 1831 ; Transactions of the New York State Medical Society, 1856, p. 169 ; Transac- tions of the New Hampshire State Medical Society, 1854, p. 55. 4 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May, 1840.