POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 459 so that it does not become sharply bent during flexion of the knee, and the current in it is but little affected, as for instance in the aneurism here shown. (Fig. 539.) In all but large and thin-walled aneurisms the experiment may be made by bending the limb: when pulsation is but little or not at all affected by the amount of flexion which the patient can voluntarily produce, or when bending to an angle of sixty degrees does not annul the aneurismal pulse, the method is likely to he ineffectual. Flexion must also be contemplated in other aspects, as an adjuvant to other treatment: as perfecting a cure which pressure has commenced, and as an appropriate remedy for recurrent pulsation after ligature. The majority of cases in which flexion has been used have not been treated by it alone and unaided. Sometimes when indirect pressure has become un- bearable, an interval has been granted to the patient, during which, lest the advantage already gained should be lost, the knee has been kept bent; and occasionally during this time the aneurism has become solid, and this has occasionally happened even though, before using pressure, flexion had failed. In some cases this posture has cured an aneurism which did not appear to he, though it probably was, benefited by long-continued, indirect pressure; or again, pressure previously ineffective has after a certain period of flexion cured the disease. Some surgeons have used occasionally with success flexion and pressure simultaneously.1 The simplest method of applying flexion is to leave the limb bare, and by means of a slipper, to the heel of which a cord is sewn, to attach the foot to a girdle round the thigh or pelvis. But the method is likely to prove more efficacious if the limb be bent at the hip as well as at the knee, and a proper bandage prevents swelling and sometimes diminishes pain. The limb, ex- clusive of the aneurism, should be enveloped in a thin flannel or domett bandage; the leg is bent on the thigh, and the thigh on the abdomen; occasion- ally a pad may be placed in the popliteal space, if it aid in producing pulse- lessness not otherwise attainable; but the appliance must be cautiously used; it obstructs veins also, and has been productive of gangrene. The methods whereby the limb may be fastened in this position are very various. A mere bandage round the ankle and thigh, though simple, is apt to injure by pressure, or to become unbearable. Some surgeons fasten the ankle near the buttock by means of a belt around the pelvis, and then bandage the thigh to the loins and back. I have found it conduce to the patient’s comfort to buckle around the waist and upper part of the pelvis a broad belt, provided with a Y-shaped portion inverted, thus A ; the stem of this part is secured to the belt over the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The branches lie one on each side of the thigh. A similar strap hangs behind from just outside the sacro-iliac joint. Each branch bears a buckle. The shin is placed in a leather gutter, like those provided by instrument-makers as slings for the forearm; it is well padded, and provided with straps near the front and back end. When these appliances are adjusted, each to its own place, the ends of the A in front are fastened to the foremost straps of the tibial sling, and those behind to the hindermost ones, by regulation of the length of each strap; the limb may be restrained in any desirable posture. In New York and Philadelphia, the limb is secured by a belt running obliquely over the shoulder. In whatever way it be done, the patient will certainly be more comfortable if part of the attachment be elastic, so as to do away with the distressing sense of rigidity, so often complained of. Patients should be encouraged to lie on the diseased side, the limb comfort- ably supported by pillows; an occasional change of posture on the back, or Flexion for recurrent pulsation need not be further mentioned here, see p. 450.