185 CONTUSED WOUNDS OP ARTERIES. —where, perhaps, the majority of wounds of the chest occur—the hemor- rhage is not always severe; but the injury of an intercostal artery, towards or near its origin, always causes very dangerous bleeding, and here the vessel is secured with much difficulty on account of its depth. A recollection of these points may assist the surgeon not a little in determining the plan of treatment to be employed. When the intercostal arteries are lacerated without there being an external wound, and inward bleeding occurs, operative skill is generally powerless to stop it. Guthrie, indeed, suggests, in commenting on a case of this sort, that auscultation would have made known the extravasation, and that relief might have been given by an incision over the spot where the uneasiness was felt; for the loss of blood was not sufficient of itself to destroy life.1 It is true that, had the spot been known where the artery was injured, in this case, it might have been cut down upon and tied; but it remains to be proved, in future cases, whether auscultation and the sensations of the patient can afford such sure information on this point as would authorize the surgeon to operate. As the symptoms in these cases are usually the symptoms of htemothorax, so the treatment must, in general, be the treatment of that accident. Contused Wounds op Arteries. The bloodvessels, as well as the integuments, the muscles, and the bones, often suffer from contusions. The “ black and blue” spots, called ecchymoses, which appear in all bruises, do so because the capillaries are crushed, and their contents escape. When arteries of some size are mashed by blows, large subtegumentary swellings may form from blood escaping into the con- nective tissue, of which accident I have seen some notable examples where the temporal and femoral vessels were involved. Large arteries, however, are, in some measure, protected from injury by bruising (1) by their positions, which, generally, are deep and sheltered; (2) by their capacity to flatten readily, which results from the elasticity of their walls and the fluidity of their contents; (8) by the strength of the arterial sheaths and the looseness of the connective tissue which surrounds them, whereby considerable free- dom of movement in lateral directions is allowed; and (4) by the prominence of contiguous muscles or other organs which serve to receive or to deflect the vulnerating forces. Contused wounds of arteries may be produced by falls and by blows with blunt instruments; I can call to mind at least two such cases; but the most common cause is injury from gunshot projectiles. Bruises of bloodvessels, which fall short of crushing them, may neverthe- less do great harm. Boyer asserts that the contusion of large arteries is sometimes followed by their rupture and the formation of a diffuse traumatic aneurism ; and if the percussion be not great enough to rupture their coats, it will weaken them to such a degree that they will afterwards yield to the impulse of the blood, and form a true aneurism. Gunshot bruises of arteries which do not directly open them are still attended with ecchymosis of the sheaths. The vasa vasorum, too, are lace- rated, and blood may be extravasated between the artery and its sheath in such quantity as to narrow considerably the tube of the vessel. Now, under appropriate treatment, this extravasated blood may be absorbed, the blood- stasis and local irritation may disappear, and the bruised part may be com- pletely restored to a healthy state. But if, on the other hand, there be no treat- ment at all, or that which is inappropriate, the blood effused in the sheath is 1 Commentaries, etc., p. 475, Am. ed.