120 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. nal maxillary, etc., when ligation of the corresponding external carotid fails to stop the bleeding, the external carotid on the opposite side should also be tied, and not the common trunk; for ligature on both sides of the external carotid artery has hitherto, I believe, been uniformly successful in subduing such hemorrhages. In wounds involving the trunk of the common carotid, or that of the internal carotid, or that of the external carotid, the hemorrhage should be stayed, if possible, by digital compression applied in the wound or to the trunk of the common carotid, in the ways already pointed out, until a surgeon can be brought, and ligatures placed on each side of the orifice in the wounded vessel. Moreover, the application of distal ligatures is especially necessary in wounds of the carotids, as well as in those of the vertebrals, because of the remarkably free intercommunication which exists at their terminal extremities, through the circle of Willis. In connection with the treatment of hemorrhage from a lesion of the internal carotid artery, read the successful case of the miller quoted on page 112. Occipital, Temporal, and Facial Arteries.—When the occipital artery, or the temporal, or the facial, or any other accessible branch of the external carotid is opened by a punctured wound, we repeat, the bleeding must be restrained by firmly compressing the primitive carotid artery against the transverse processes of the vertebra? (Fig. 342, p. 68); the injured part of the artery must be laid bare by incisions, and the bleeding orifice must be distinctly brought into view; a ligature must be applied on each side of the orifice, and the artery itself must be completely divided midway between the two ligatures, to allow the ends to retract. But if the injured part of the artery cannot be thus exposed and ligated, a ligature should be applied to the in- jured artery on the cardiac side of the wound, as near to it as practicable. If this cannot be done, the external carotid artery should be tied, but not the common carotid. Should the hemorrhage still continue, the external carotid artery of the opposite side should also be tied; this procedure is said never to fail, as already stated above. Axillary Artery.—Punctured wounds which open the axillary artery are also very liable to be quickly followed by death from hemorrhage; and the internal or subtegumentary bleeding may be, and often has been, but little less deadly than the outward bleeding. Here, too, for saving the patient, our chief reliance must be placed on adequate compression, promptly applied, either with fingers in the wound, directly on the aperture in the vessel, or with both thumbs upon the subclavian artery as it passes over the first rib, or with a large door-key, or the thumb-piece of a Petit’s tourniquet, suitably covered by bandaging, in order to restrain the escape of blood from the artery, internally or hiddenly as well as externally or openly, until surgical aid can be obtained, and until the vessel can be tied where it is wounded. But, in most cases, to be successful, the pressure must be applied intelligently, ener- getically, and steadily, as well as promptly, and with a strong desire to prevent the formation of a sanguineous tumor in the loose connective tissue of this region, as well as to restrain the outward flow of blood. The forma- tion of a large, diffuse, traumatic aneurism in this region, is to be deprecated almost as much as an unobstructed external hemorrhage. Brachial Artery.—Punctured wounds which involve the brachial artery should always be treated on the orthodox plan of ligating it above and below the wound as soon as possible, the hemorrhage meanwhile being restrained by compression, which, in this region, can readily be applied. Old soldiers have not unfrequently done it well for comrades with tourniquets extemporized from handkerchiefs. On laying the bleeding point in the artery bare for the purpose of securing it with ligatures, a stream of blood is