679 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HAND. place of the joint, and a prominence in front. It is bent backward, ana can- not be brought over to the little finger. Reduction is said by Cooper to be more difficult than in the last form. It should be attempted in the same manner, except that the thumb may he brought over toward the palm, to relax the powerful flexor muscles. The traction should be long continued and persistent. Recourse may he had to the tenotome in making section of the lateral liga- ments, but no division of the tendons is advisable or beneficial. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers.—These are usually produced by blows given with the clenched fist, and the displace- ment is only partial. Whether in a backward or forward direction, the reduc- tion is accomplished by making strong extension on the affected finger, and by pressing upon the prominence caused by the head of the hone. Dislocations of the Phalanges of the Thumb and Fingers.—The usual direction of these displacements is backward, but forward luxations also occur. It is, in some instances, surprisingly difficult to reduce dislocations of these small joints, one difficulty evidently lying in the fact that the shortness of the fingers does not furnish sufficient hold and leverage for manipulation and traction. There is, however, some difference of opinion as to the main cause of this difficulty of reduction. It may be partly explained as follows: the proximal phalanx of the thumb, for example, being displaced back- ward, the sharp anterior ridge of the base of the phalanx rests just behind the terminal enlargement of the extremity of the metacarpal, held firmly in this position by the tightly strained, lateral ligaments. Extension tends only to put these ligaments more violently upon the stretch, unless proper manipu- lations are employed to release the bone. When in a semiflexed position, extension tends only to draw the member more nearly straight, and hence only increases the resistance, as the phalanx comes more nearly into a line with the metacarpal bone. But the strong lateral ligaments, acting as a fulcrum, increase the pressure of the two bones, which thus become more and more firmly locked. Hence the dislocation cannot yield to any amount of extension, unless it be applied in a suitable direction. Considerable force must be employed, in whatever direction it he made, and to obtain this, a clove-hitch, Jarvis’s adjuster, the “ Indian puzzle,” and Fig. 564. other appliances, are.called into use.. It is to he remembered that too great force may cause a stripping of the skin from the thumb or finger, while using any of the mechanical aids in traction. In attempting reduction, the first efforts may be made by grasping the Fig. 563. Forward dislocation of second phalanx of finger.