LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 151 after some unusual efforts in the way of passive motion, there came great swelling in and about the axilla, which increased and extended by degrees about the shoulder and upper half of the arm. On January 19, Sir James Paget saw her. She looked pale, feeble, and reduced by the pain. The whole axilla was distended as much as the fixed position of the shoulder would allow, with a tense, firm swelling, raising up in front the pectoralis major, and still more prominently behind the teres major and latissimus dorsi. Pulsation was distinctly felt in every part of this swelling. A rough, blowing sound was heard all over it, and for a little distance above and below. No pulsation was discernible in the brachial artery or its branches. Pressure on the main trunk above the aneurism abolished the pulsation and bruit. Complete rest, diminished food, and anodynes were recommended, and the policy of delay was continued until April 23, when the increased size of the tumor and other symptoms made an operation impera- tive. Sir James Paget opened the tumor, under chloroform, by cutting just behind and parallel to the pectoralis major the whole length of the axilla, and by making a second cut at right angles with this, commencing at its middle, through the pectoralis major muscle, straight upward, its whole width. Raising the angular'flaps of the J_ shaped wound of operation, the surface of the great mass of the clot was exposed. Two small arteries that were cut were tied. The clots were scooped out and an oval-shaped aper- ture one-fourth of an inch long by one-tenth of an inch wide was found in the posterior wall of the axillary artery. Above and below it the vessel appeared sound. Ligatures were applied above and below the aperture, and the vessel itself was divided between them. The loss of blood during the operation was under six ounces. The cavity of this aneurism was the anatomical axilla exactly filled and distended. The patient made a good recovery.1 I have taken space to give all the steps of this important operation, and almost any surgeon who is about to undertake its performance will con- cede the value of Sir James Paget’s method, and probably wish for greater fulness of detail. Dislocation of the arm at the shoulder-joint is sometimes attended by rup- ture of the axillary artery, without any external wound. In other words, the same force that displaces the head of the humerus, rends the accom- panying artery also, as happened in the following instance related by Dr. ft. Adams:—2 John Smith, aged 50, was thrown down by a runaway horse. About ten minutes afterward he was brought to the Jervis Street Hospital “ in a cold perspiration, pallid, and apparently on the verge of syncope.” The left humerus was found to be dislo- cated into the axilla. The artery accompanying it was also ruptured; blood was extravasated into the axilla, and there was corresponding tumefaction or diffused aneurism; no pulse in radial and ulnar arteries. Dr. Adams easily reduced the dislo- cation, which he proceeded to do at once, while the man was still prostrated by the “ shock,” and by the concealed hemorrhage. Ten days later, Mr. O’Reilly tied the subclavian artery. The man recovered and lived many years. Nelaton states that, although rupture of the axillary artery in consequence of dislocation of the shoulder is very rare, he has observed a remarkable ex- ample, attending a displacement below the glenoid cavity. The two inner tunics of this vessel were torn to a very small extent; a false aneurism resulted, that grew rapidly, and obliged him, three months later, to resort to ligation of the subclavian artery, which he practised above the clavicle; but the disorder had already made so alarming a progress that, notwithstanding the ligation, the aneurismal cyst burst open, and entailed a sad termination from secondary hemorrhage.3 Elsewhere, I find it stated that the patient was a woman, advanced in years; that the aneurism communicated with the cavity of the joint; and that the reduction was easily effected. From the last-mentioned circumstance, Nelaton probably inferred that the laceration 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Reports, vol. ii. pp. 103-106. 2 Cyclopsedia of Anatomy and Physiology, article “Shoulder-joint,” pp. 616, 617. 3 Elemens de Pathologie Chirurgicale, t. ii. p. 368.