ABDOMINAL ANEURISM. 477 distinctness; especially is this the case with hysterical young women, and also in cases of albuminuria. The normal line in which this aortic pulse may be felt, with the unaltered beat of the femorals, should prevent any mistake as to the diagnosis. But the fact that such an exaggeration of beat may, under certain circumstances, occur, shows that caution is necessary in pronouncing as to the nature of any tumor overlying the aorta, even though it pulsate very strongly. Bruit is very frequently absent in abdominal aneu- rism ; while a merely hysterical, pulsating aorta may possess a distinct, though not loud, murmur. jSTo conclusion, save in» very evident and plain cases, should be formed until a purge and an enema have thoroughly cleared out the bowels. The examination should be made, not merely while the patient is on his back, but also while he is on his side; so that the surgeon, gently kneading the intestines away, may get his hand more directly on the vessel, and so that any intestinal impaction, or mesenteric or omental tumor, may fall away from the front of the vessel. If, under these circumstances, an ovoid or globular pulsating tumor remain stationary, or nearly so, the suspi- cion of its being aneurismal is in so far confirmed; but it must be remem- bered that malignant tumors of the lumbar spine or glands, or of the kidney, and even a pyo-nephrosis or a hydro-nephrosis, may pulsate j1 and the possi- ble presence of each of these conditions must be eliminated by careful and repeated examination.2 The pressure symptoms of abdominal aneurism, being due to compression of certain viscera, or of their ducts, are not very dissimilar to those caused by disease of the organs themselves. Thus, we may have pain in the back, with caries of the spine, and even psoas abscess; loss of flesh, sickness, disten- sion, etc., from intestinal pressure; the same set of symptoms, with severe jaundice, from obstruction of the hepatic ducts; or intense renal troubles from involvement of the ureter. Such conditions, if taken alone, are not in any way characteristic; but if conjoined with the presence of a pulsating tumor, they may greatly aid diagnosis. Aneurism of a branch at a little distance from the parent trunk is distin- guishable by the mobility of the whole tumor ; this is more especially the case if either mesenteric artery be involved, but if the aneurism spring from a branch close to the main vessel, and a portion of it involve the actual mouth of the artery, no such distinction can be drawn. The treatment of abdominal aneurism is by no means attended by very satisfactory results. The method of Valsalva should first be tried, without the bleedings, or, at all events, without the copious and repeated bleedings recommended by that surgeon. A certain hopefulness is imparted by the fact that a certain number of these aneurisms, some of them unsuspected during life, have undergone spontaneous cure. The rest should be entire, the patient being prohibited from rising or turning in bed without assist- ance ; even the thighs and legs should be kept very still. Some aid, and in such cases even the slightest assistance should be sought, may be obtained by raising the foot of the couch so that the pelvis and nether limbs may be some inches above the shoulders, and that thus the force of the blood-stream may be diminished by gravity. Atropia, aconite, or digitalis, may be given alter- nately according to circumstances, and I have had reason to assign much benefit to their use. All these drugs must be administered with caution, for though slight nausea may be induced, emesis is to be avoided; a single act of 1 Occasionally, though, very rarely, abdominal aneurism does not pulsate ; under which cir- cumstances it may he almost impossible to make a diagnosis, save after long watching. 2 Some caution should he given concerning much kneading or pressure on these tumors. Too great an amount of force may, and indeed has, caused rupture.