INCISED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 187 large artery is completely divided in an incised wound, and the case is left to Nature:— William Barren, a sailmaker, aged about 32, was stabbed in the throat, and in other places, in an affray, on Saturday night, December 11 ; he bled very profusely from the throat-wound, and expired in about twenty minutes from the hemorrhage. Autopsy, at the Fourth Ward Station-house, December 13, by the author, at twelve M—Face, lips, gums, and surface of whole body pale and exsanguinated. On left side of neck was found an incised wound, two and a half inches in length, commencing anterior to the ear, and extending forward and somewhat obliquely downward, just beneath and nearly parallel to the body of the lower jaw ; its lips were drawn together and held by one suture; the lips of the wound were somewhat irregular in shape; the track of the wound extended almost transversely across and nearly through the throat, severing, in its course, the anterior third of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the left external carotid artery near its origin, and the accompanying vein ; it also passed through the muscles at the root of the tongue, cutting off the epiglottis at its base ; it divided the great cornu of the hyoid bone on the right side, and terminated near the anterior margin of the right sterno-mastoid muscle. Some clotted blood was found in the larynx below the rima glottidis. The stomach contained a few ounces of a substance resembling coffee-grounds. Internal organs generally exsanguinated, but otherwise sound. The ends of the severed external carotid artery were somewhat contracted, but still permeable, and not plugged up with coagulated blood. The wound in the neighbor- hood of the vessel contained clotted blood. (The parts of the record not pertinent are •omitted.) John Heavy, middle-aged, was cut in the upper and inner part of his right arm with a knife, and died from the hemorrhage in fifteen or twenty minutes—in not less than fifteen nor more than twenty minutes—on the night of May 3. Autopsy by the author, at the Fourth Ward Station-house, on May 4, at 4 P. M Cadaver large and muscular; face, lips, and surface of body generally very pale, and presenting a waxen appearance. There was an incised wound of the integuments on the antero-internal part of the right arm, just below the fold of the armpit, one inch and a quarter in length, and extending obliquely across the arm. It was about two inches in depth, and involved the brachial artery, which had been severed transversely near its origin. The ends of the divided vessel were partially contracted, but not plugged up with coagulated blood. The wound of the soft parts exterior to the vessel was filled with clotted blood. The lungs, liver, spleen, and internal organs in general, contained much less than the normal quantity of blood; heart large and fatty, with some blood in its right cavities. (Some immaterial points are omitted.) In neither of these cases was any effort of importance made to suppress the bleeding. The largeness and smoothness of the gash in the integuments and other parts exterior to the artery, allowed the blood to escape unobstruct- edly from the arterial lesion, in both instances. Careful inquiry was also made by the author, for the purpose of ascertaining how long each man lived after he was stabbed. As both cases were thoroughly investigated by the coroner, unusual facilities were afforded for pursuing this inquiry. The wit- nesses agreed in testifying that in the external carotid case the man expired in about twenty minutes, and in the brachial artery case in fifteen or twenty minutes—in not less than fifteen nor more than twenty minutes—after the gash was made. In both instances the ends of the severed arteries were somewhat contracted, but they were still open, and not filled or plugged with coagulated blood. In each instance, however, the gash in the soft parts exterior to the vessel was filled with clotted blood. In such cases, as the pulsations of the artery become weaker and the coagulability of the blood increases, the external wound becomes filled with a coagulum, in the middle of which a channel remains open, through which the blood continues to trickle until the clot becomes stronger than the current of the blood, that is,