201 WOUNDS OF VEINS. In both cases the inflammation was formative in character, and there resulted contraction of the bruised part of the vein, and obliteration of its canal. But the contused wounds of veins which are caused by musket-balls and other like missiles, not unfrequently give rise to secondary hemorrhage. The bruised part of the vein separates as a slough, the canal of the injured vein is opened, and an effusion of blood into the wound, or a hemorrhage, takes place. The Army Medical Museum contains several specimens which illus- trate this accident One of them is “a wet preparation of a portion of the right internal jugular vein, after secondary hemorrhage from gunshot. The specimen shows the point of sloughing, and is occupied by a coagulum two inches below the orifice. Private S. W. S., ‘ B.,’ 1st N. Y. Dragoons, 23 ; ball entered two inches below and to the right of the supe- rior angle of the scapula, passed through the neck and fractured the inferior maxilla. Spottsylvania C. H., Va., 8th May ; admitted to hospital, Alexandria, Va., 24th ; secondary hemorrhage, arrested by persulphate of iron, 27th May, 1864 ; date of death not reported.”1 Another illustration of this accident is “ a wet preparation of the upper portion of the femoral vein, showing the point of sloughing after gunshot. The orifice is nearly opposite the mouth of the profunda.” Private M. H., aged 21, was the patient. He was wounded and admitted to hospital April 1, 1863. Venous hemorrhage occurred on the 10th, 11th, and 13th ; on the 15th he died. In both instances the loss of blood appears to have been the cause of death.2 The following case belongs to the same category:— Private M. A. R., Co. E, 46th Ohio Vols., wounded at Dallas May 27 or 28,1864 ; admitted to hospital on the 28th. A ball entered the right side of the face about the middle of the buccinator muscle, fractured the inferior maxilla, passed downward into the neck on the same side, and, lodging, could not be felt. May 30—He felt well; appetite and pulse good, but he could swallow liquid food only. He continued to do well until June 7 and 8, when he lost a great deal of blood from the wound, and became much reduced thereby. On the 27th there was some hemorrhage at seven A. M., which was arrested by com- pression. At nine o’clock he had a convulsion, and died. At the autopsy, the internal jugular vein was found opened for about four inches, and the tissues on the same or right side of the neck were infiltrated with pus. The missile had also fractured the transverse processes of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae, and had passed into the chest. In this case the missile was deflected downward into the neck by striking the lower jaw. Thus, the internal jugular vein was grazed and bruised. Some ten or eleven days after the casualty, and when the slough separated, the internal jugular was opened, and profuse hemorrhage from the wound took place. The bleeding was suppressed, but after a time it recurred, and the man died, having syncopal convulsions (convulsio syncopalis) due to the loss of blood. Were it desirable, additional examples could readily be adduced. Treatment.—The principal indications to be fulfilled in the management of contused wounds affecting veins are: (1) To prevent the occurrence of ulcera- tive phlebitis and secondary hemorrhage; (2) to prevent the absorption of septic matter and the occurrence of septicaemia or pyaemia. Both of these indications are best accomplished by the use of antiseptic dressings and thorough drainage in such wounds; for, in this way, the retention and putre- faction of purulent matter are avoided, and these two sources of danger are eliminated from the case. Should, however, secondary hemorrhage occur it must be restrained without delay by compression (digital or otherwise) until the bleeding vein can be laid bare, and securely tied above and below the aperture in its walls with ligatures of carbolized catgut. In cases where 1 Catalogue, A. M. M., p. 470, Specimen 2441. 2 Ibid... p. 471, Specimen 1093