SURGICAL TREATMENT OP ANEURISM. 441 point among sodden and swollen parts. A few drops of blood allowed to flow out, may assist the search; or the vessel may be dissected some way above and below the place where it was originally tied, and fresh ligatures be placed a good distance away, above and below. After that, it is well to pass under the artery a blunt hook and carry it down from one ligature to the other to make sure that no large branch springs between the two, for if such a branch be left, bleeding will be apt to recur from the collateral flow ; should such a branch be found, it must also be tied. Some surgeons would tie with hemp or perhaps catgut, and divide the vessel between the two knots.1 Deligation of the artery, above and below the 'point of hemorrhage, sometimes succeeds,2 but often fails, the failures being chiefly due to disease of the vessel. Generally the same condition which gave rise to the first hemorrhage causes the second operation also to fail; but sometimes, I believe, suppuration in the wound, by softening the arterial tunics, renders them unfit to bear a new liga- ture—more especially one that divides the vessel’s coats. Another method may be used if the bleeding come from the distal end of an artery divided, or partially divided, by the ulceration caused by an inso- luble ligature. In such a case it is evident that some large collateral branch brings blood from a vessel on the proximal side, along a branch opening into the main channel on the distal side of the wound. This branch may be acces- sible to a ligature. In this way Smyth, of Hew Orleans, saved a patient for whom he had tied the innominate, and who had had repeated attacks of second- ary bleeding from the distal portion of the vessel. On the fifty-fourth day the vertebral, which brought blood from the brain, was tied; the hemorrhage was arrested, and the man recovered. This method is especially adapted to the branches of the subclavian, but may, in case of urgency, be tried elsewhere, though with less hope of success. Deligation of the vessel higher up, or of the main branch from which it springs, is a device which is not often successful—more so, however, in the upper than in the lower limb, for in the latter such an operation is peculiarly liable to be followed by gangrene, an event which renders the result of the ultima ratio doubtful. Hence hemorrhage—after tying, for instance, the superficial femoral—should only be treated by deligation of the common trunk in a person not advanced in years, having fairly sound arteries, and whose limb has not suffered from the first operation.3 In dealing with the upper limb, gangrene need hardly be feared, but when the vessel above has been bared, strict search should be made for any such irregularity as a high division. The original ligature may have constricted the aneurismal vessel, and yet, when the side-channels have become enlarged, an aberrant branch from the other portion of the artery may carry blood into the aneurismal portion close to the place at which it was tied. In certain cases all these devices, one after the other, fail, either from some inherent defect of the vas- ' cular system, analogous to that which produces haemophilia, or because the arteries of the part have been damaged by previous treatment. Case XY—As an instance of such ill results I may quote a case which occurred in the practice of Professor Agnew : A popliteal aneurism was treated successively by the Esmarch bandage, pressure, flexion, and then by ligature of the superficial femoral; 1 I do not recommend such a division if the flat ligature be used, as I do not feel confident, since it does not bury itself in the arterial tissues, that it holds upon a divided vessel; it mi flit I have never seen such an occurrence—but it might be pushed off by the force of the current, or the retracting vessel might withdraw itself from the noose. 3 See Humphry’s ease (British Medical Journal, 1876, vol. x. p. 591) and my own case (Lan- cet, August 3, 1881), referred to at p. 445. 3 This observation cannot hold in regard to the external and common iliac, because in cases of hemorrhage from these vessels we cannot amputate, and to tie them may he our only resource.