475 GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC ANEURISMS. The results of these various methods are:— Rest and expectancy . Pressure (direct and proximal) Injection of perchloride of iron Old operation (Antyllus) .... Deligation of artery outside pelvis “ internal iliac . . . . “ common iliac . . . . Galvano puncture Cure. Death. ll 5 0 2 4 2 4 1 2 2 6 102 0 2 0 1 To tie either the upper part of the external, the internal, or the common iliac artery, the operator must go through the same steps up to the time of his reaching the vessel. The incision should commence a little below the level of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and about an inch inside it; then it should be carried upward for from four to five inches, the cut, how- ever, not running straight between these points, but sweeping backward with a free outward curve, so that the extent of skin passed over by the knife is considerably greater than the space between the ends of the incision. The outer muscle of the abdomen is thus brought into view, and may be divided in the same curve, and then the internal oblique and the transversalis are to be similarly dealt with. It is not necessary to use the director, certainly not for the outer two muscles; but each layer should be distinctly recognized. After division of the last-named muscle, the transversalis fascia is exposed; sometimes it is very thin in this place, and the operator may be in some doubt, but he must entirely orient himself before going on. Let him turn up the transversalis muscle, and, examining its deep surface, ascertain if the fascia have been incised with it. He should remember, too, that this structure is of a slightly bluish-gray—that between it and the peritoneum is an unevenly distributed layer of granular fat—and that one can dimly see the viscera through the serous membrane when bare, but not through the fascia. When he has decided that the structure in question is uncut, he must divide it on the director, and will find it easier to begin below, where it is thicker, than above, where it is thin and less distinct in structure. The peritoneum being exposed in the length and curve of the first incision, the surgeon now presses it gently towards the middle, taking care to separate it very carefully, and not too quickly, from the parts behind; if he be intending to tie the common iliac, he should aim at the upper margin of the sacrum; if one of the branches, a little lower: in the one case, he will carry his finger along the crest of the ilium and the parts above; in the other, along the back part of the iliac fossa. Thus going on, the operator, when his hand gets near the sacrum, feels the great artery beating in the depths of the wound; the ureter and the sper- matic vessels will in all probability have remained attached to the perito- neum, and, being turned aside with it, are out of danger, but it is well to make sure of this by touch or sight before going further. Supposing that it is the common iliac which the surgeon intends to tie, he will find the artery lying just inside the psoas muscle, and. may, by passing his finger gently downward, fee! its bifurcation (the vessel, unless for very high "aneurism, should be secured at its lower end), which will assure him that he is really at the intended spot. But the artery is still covered by a layer of fascia, which must be scratched through with a director, the aneurism needle, or, as.I prefer, with the finger-nail. At this point, the operator must bear in mind, that on the right side the iliac vein lies outside, on the left, inside the artery ; in other words, that the vein is to the right for both lateral halves of Spontaneous relapse. 2 Five of these operations were undertaken in hopeless conditions..