585 NEURALGIA IN GENERAL. [See Vol. I. p. 311.] appear to depend upon an alteration of the blood. “ The blood, that regu- lator of the nerves, is deprived,” he says, “ of a certain number of globules; it reacts upon the nerves, and determines an exaltation of their properties.” These general causes are met with in anaemia, in chlorosis, in hysteria, in pregnancy, in lactation, in convalescence, in cachexias, such as syphilis and malaria, in poisoning by lead and by mercury, in Bright’s disease, in diabetes, in influenza, in catarrhal fever, in measles, etc., and often in arthritism1— rheumatism and gout. (8) Determining causes are divided into peripheral causes, which act upon the nerves; central causes, which act upon the nerve centres; and causes which act at a distance, or by reflex action. The 'peripheral causes include all the causes of traumatism of the nerves themselves, which we have already studied, and which give rise to traumatic neuralgia, which may often be attributed to a congestion, or to an inflamma- tion of the nerves. They include also foreign bodies in the nerves, and diseases and tumors of these structures; the imprisonment of a nerve in a mass of callus, its compression by cicatricial tissue or by eburnation of bone- structure—neuralgic osteitis (Gosselin), neuralgia of edentulous persons (Gross). To these must be added the alterations of the nerve brought about by lesions of the neighboring parts; and, finally, cold, which often plays an im- portant part in the development of certain neuralgias, particularly among arthritic subjects (rheumatic, neuralgic). The central causes include the lesions of the nerve-centres or of their mem- branes (tumors, etc.). Reflex neuralgias are brought about by disease of a more or less distant organ. On this subject Huchard says, as follows: “ In consequence of a sym- pathy existing between deep-seated organs and the parietes which cover them, very varied internal affections,"painful or not, cause in the nerves of the walls the same morbid impressions which the visceral ramifications have undergone.” To this class of neuralgias belong the lumbo-abdominal and other neuralgias which are seen in affections of the uterus or ovaries, in orchi-epididymitis (Mauriac), etc. There might perhaps he included here, some of the precocious, secondary, traumatic neuralgias of Verneuil, which manifest themselves at the beginning of the reparatory process, and which will be again referred to. They are to be distinguished from primary, trau- matic neuralgias, resulting from nerve-wounds, and from tardy, secondary, trau- matic neuralgias, which occur after the work of cicatrization is completed, as,_ for example, in stumps. Symptoms of Neuralgia.—The essential, and often the only, symptom of neuralgia is pain ; and a distinction must be made between spontaneous pain and the pain caused by pressure ; the former often presents itself under two forms; a continuous pain, and a remittent pain. Continuous pain manifests itself by a sensation of tension, of pressure, and of aching ; it affects by preference certain special foci, which then form the points of departure of the remittent pains. Remittent pain sometimes presents a regular periodicity (intermittent pain); it is acute, and shows itself under the form of paroxysmal pain, throbbings, tearings, prickings, burnings, electric shocks, and painful jerks. It shows itself in paroxysms, during which the pains recur several times in a minute, or only once, twice, or three times in a quarter of an hour, etc. The whole duration of the paroxysm is extremely variable—a few minutes, some hours,