INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 76 is next removed, but the elastic tubing or ligature is left on to act as a tour- niquet, and, provided that the apparatus has been properly applied, the limb below this tourniquet exhibits a completely blanched appearance, like that of a corpse. Any operation can now be performed without loss of blood. But parts of limbs which contain unhealthy pus, must not be firmly bandaged with the elastic roller, because infecting matter might thereby be driven upward into the connective tissue, and into the lymphatics. In such cases one must be satisfied with holding the limb in an elevated position for Fig. 363. Showing compression of the femoral artery with Esmarch’s elastic ligature, and the application of Foulis’s fastening clasp or ring. (Esmarch.) a few minutes in order to make the blood run out of- it, as practised many years ago at the New York Hospital by the American surgeons, Mott and Stevens, before applying the elastic tubing or ligature to control the circula- tion. Nicaise’s modification of the elastic roller and ligature is recommended on the high authority of Esmarch. It consists of a strong India-rubber belt, to one end of which are fastened a hook, and a number of rings one after the other. (Figs. 364 and 365.) The application of Esmarch’s tube to the axillary artery is shown in Fig. 366. To arrest the circulation of blood in a finger, an India-rubber tube, about the size of a goose-quill, suffices; it should be wound around the finger two or more times, its ends crossed on the back of the hand, then carried around the wrist, and tied on its dorsum. An elastic ligature of similar size, and constructed of the same material, when tightly drawn around the root of the penis and scrotum, will restrain the outflow of blood from the arteries of these parts. (Fig. 367.) To compress the common femoral artery, the India-rubber tube is wound once or twice around the thigh just below the groin, and its ends are crossed over the groin, carried around the posterior aspect of the pelvis, and finally hooked together over the hypogastric region. (Fig. 368.) A pad consisting of a firmly rolled linen bandage may be placed as a com- press over the external iliac artery, immediately above. Poupart’s ligament,