107 AFTER-TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE. emphasize the subject according to its importance, as well as to offer another and a somewhat better instrument for performing the operation, the accom- panying woodcut (Fig. 414) is presented:— Fig. 414. Transfusion apparatus of B. E. Fryer, M.D., Surgeon U. S. Army. This instrument is that of Aveling, modified by adding another bulb to the tube, and by having both tube and bulbs cast of the rubber into one piece. By the additional bulb, time can be saved in performing the opera- tion, and the blood can be kept moving through the tube almost con- tinuously. By having the tube and bulbs in a single piece,the metal portion which couples them in Aveling’s apparatus is done away with, and thereby the risk of blood lodging and coagulating is diminished, while, if necessary, the whole apparatus may be more completely compressed. In Fryer’s in- strument, as in Aveling’s, there are no valves; but in Fryer’s the inner wall is perfectly smooth throughout, and the opening from tube to bulbs gradually slopes, thus entirely avoiding corners in which the blood might stagnate and coagulate. The apparatus of Fryer consists of two parts, one of which is intended for immediate and the other for mediate transfusion. The addition of a glass vessel, marked A, which can be fitted to the tube at B, makes an in- strument which can be used for mediate transfusion when desired. The manner of using the instrument for immediate transfusion is as follows: The canula marked B is placed in the giver’s vein; that marked C in the vein of the receiver. The tube and bulbs having been filled with warm water, or, better still, with a warm saline solution (consisting of sodium chloride, grs. 60, potassium chloride, grs. 6, sodium phosphate, grs. 3, sodium carbonate, grs. 20, and water, twenty ounces) are then to be adjusted to the canulse, and the blood allowed to flow into the apparatus. The canulse being steadied by an assistant, the tube is to be nipped tightly between the fingers, close to the giver’s end, and then the bulb marked 1 is to be compressed, and the blood of course forced on toward the receiver. While this bulb is still held flattened, the nipping of the tube at the giver’s end is to be relaxed, and the portion of tube between the bulbs is to be nipped instead; bulb Ho. 1 should then be relaxed, and bulb Ho. 2 should be compressed and held; next, the tube is to be tightly nipped at the receiver’s end and held to pre- vent regurgitation, and the whole apparatus allowed to refill from the giver’s arm. The same manipulation is to be repeated until blood enough is trans- fused. A considerable degree of force sometimes must be used in sending