517 TREATMENT OF ANEURISMS AT ROOT OF NECK. The complete division of the artery by the ligature, and the open state of the distal part of the vessel, require no further commentary than a reference to what is said at p. 443. The opening observed in the pleura shows that this membrane was probably wounded in spite of the surgeon’s great care. Temporary compression or ligature of the innominate has been resorted to by Mr. Porter, of Dublin,1 and by Mr. Bickersteth, of Liverpool.2 The for- mer used his artery compressor—an instrument like two aneurism needles sliding one within the other, or like a minute lithotrite; the latter employed a somewhat complicated appliance, whereby he hoped to compress the artery by an elastic force connected by lead wires to the pressure-bar passed beneath the vessel. The former instrument failed by causing a slough of the artery; the latter by the giving way of one of the wires. Mr. Bickersteth then tied the vessel on each side of the part that had been compressed, with the usual result, secondary hemorrhage, beginning on the seventh day, recurring, and destroying the patient in twenty-four hours.3 Deligation of the axillary artery for subclavian aneurism has, as a distal operation, every possible defect, many vessels being given off by the diseased part of the artery, or between the sac and the ligature. The procedure has been employed five times, and in each instance certainly did no good, but probably hastened the fatal termination. The next aneurismal tumor at the root of the neck, of which the treatment is to be considered in the order we are pursuing, is low carotid aneurism, by which words it is intended to indicate a tumor placed so low in the neck that a portion of it is situated below, on a level with, or just above the clavicle. This position offers the surgeon no opportunity to apply a ligature anywhere between the tumor and the heart, unless he have recourse to tying the innominate. Hence the treatment is restricted to a tract of vessel beyond the sac, to what are called distal methods. Distal pressure on the carotid is unpromising, because it has to be applied higher than Chassaignac’s tubercle, at a point where the patient cannot possibly bear it for a sufficient length of time, if it be directed backwards. The only feasible method, therefore, is that practised by Rouge,4 which has already been described (p. 497), as have also the possible advantages and very certain dangers of the rapid mode of employ- ing compression. If rest and pressure fail, we have no recourse but to place a ligature round the carotid on the distal side of the aneurism.5 This opera- tion was first formulated and practised by Wardrop, who especially pointed out its applicability to the carotid, since no vessel is there given off between the ligature and the origin of the artery. A distal deligation of the carotid should be practised above the omo-hyoid muscle, and not far from the bifurcation. The method of performance has already been described, but I would point out that an aneurism may con- siderably displace the vessel, and that care in studying the part and its vicinity should therefore in every case be used. In this operation the pulsation of the aneurism does not cease, as in the proximal deligation. When the ligature is tightened, indeed, it may for a few seconds increase, but the tumor should not increase in size. Such an ■event would be of bad augury, as indicating danger of future rupture. Shortly after, a noticeable but not very great decrease in size can be verified, 1 Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Nov. 1867. ! Medico-Ohirurg. Trans., vol. lvi. p. 129. 3 I am not aware that the instrument of Dr. Fleet Speir has been used on this vessel. For remarks on temporary ligature, see p. 439. 4 Rouge’s case was cured in 136 hours—viz., 8 hours daily during 17 days. 6 Neither electrolysis nor injection of coagulants is applicable, since cerebral embolism would almost certainly follow.