727 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OP JOINTS. semi-conservative course of opening the articulation, and clearing out the fragments. If there are any situations in which a more strictly conservative plan would be admissible, they are in the hip-joint and in the spinal articula- tions, where it is obvious that certain complications may compel surgical inaction as to an injured joint, when otherwise an operation would be im- perative. Common sense and not arbitrary rules must guide in such cases. Gunshot Wounds op Vertebral Articulations.—A long discussion of these injuries would not be appropriate here, because their chief importance consists in the mischief done to the cord, and not to the articulations as such. The vertebrse, being composed of cancellous tissue, are very liable to absorb, through their opened and non-contracting venous channels, a vast quantity of putrid material; hence septicaemia is very liable to occur, as in the case of the late President Garfield. This disaster can be prevented in a few cases, where the wound happens to be so located as to admit of exploration with some degree of safety. It is therefore a sound doctrine to explore such wounds to the bone, if it can be done without much risk, and to try to establish drain- age and an aseptic condition in the bone-wound itself; but if the exploration be likely to evacuate the spinal fluid, or do other fatal mischief, it is idle to pretend, as some have done, that such an examination should be persisted in, even at the risk of hastening death. It is to be remembered that a bullet is itself generally antiseptic, being covered with condensed sulphuric and sulphurous acids from the combustion of the powder in the gun, and that its passage through cancellous bone by no means insures septicaemia. In many cases, an exploration pushed far enough to reach the perforation in the ver- tebra, would be more dangerous than to trust that part of the wound to nature. There have been as yet no sufficient statistics accumulated as to vertebral wounds, to enable us to lay down precise rules of conduct, and until science does us this service—a very difficult, if not an impossible service in this class of cases—each surgeon must be guided by his best judgment on general prin- ciples. Those writers who allege that surgical science has a settled rule for every possible contingency, do not consider, or do not know, the actual state of surgical literature. Dr. Otis1 gives a table of 642 cases of wounds of vertebrae, with 55 J per cent, mortality. He gives also a table of sixty cases, in which various opera- tions were performed upon the wounded vertebrse, with 27 deaths, which is a mortality of 45 per cent. The unavoidable, mathematical inference from these figures is, that the cases operated on were ten-and-a-half per cent, more suc- cessful than the average of the whole; but there is no practical value in this inference, because it is not known whether those selected for operation were cases of average severity. The only conclusions, therefore, which are at present admissible, are these: In gunshot fractures of the spine, very careful examination should be the rule, and in many cases incisions should be made with judicious boldness, both to assist the exploration, and to enable the operator to remove fragments of bone, bullets, and pieces of clothing, and last, but not least, to enable him to thoroughly drain the fracture, and to keep it purified with antiseptics. In other respects the patient must be treated according to general principles, guided by the special study of each case. Gunshot Wounds of the Shoulder-joint.—These vary exceedingly in gravity, as do similar injuries elsewhere. The joint may be torn to frag- Med. and Surg. Hist, of tlie War of the Rebellion. Part First, Surgical Volume.