435 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. absence of a branch between the ligature and the sac, was not even considered until first Hodgson and then War drop formulated that necessary condition. We may now judiciously pause a while to consider the different methods of ligaturing arteries for aneurism; they are depicted in the annexed wood- cuts (Figs. 534-538). Fig. 534- Fig- 535. Fig. 536. Fig. 537. Fig. 538. [A good deal of confusion in reference to the nomenclature of the distal operations for aneurism, is due to the fact that while, in his original paper,1 Mr. Wardrop followed Hodgson in laying stress upon the importance of hav- ing no intervening branch between the aneurismal sac and the ligature, in his later monograph2 he suggested his “new operation,” which consisted in the application of the distal method even when such an intervening branch was present, and his famous operation on Mrs. Denmark (case of innominate aneurism) was based upon this principle.] Hunter’s operation for popliteal aneurism was received throughout the sur- gical world with little less than enthusiasm, and nowhere more warmly than in Italy, where Scarpa, a man of great talent, modified the procedure by tying the vessel still higher in the limb—just where it becomes covered by the Sartorius muscle, at the apex of a space which, on account of his de- scription of it, goes by the name of Scarpa’s triangle. The question of the form of ligature, and whether it should be loosely or tightly tied, or whether the coats of the vessels should be protected by the interposition of a roll of linen or other substance, remained a matter of contro- versy, and, therefore, of uncertainty, until Dr. Jones published his well-known work.3 The appearance of this much quoted, but little read book, marked an important era in Surgery; it must be again referred to, but at present I only wish to point out that its author proved by experiments that the received doc- trine of occluding large tracts of the vessel was erroneous, and that the sealing of an artery depended upon division of its two inner coats, followed by their inflammatory adhesion. He even went so far in his reliance upon this adhe- sion as to inculcate,4 and his teaching was borne out by experiment, that immediately on tying the vessel, and dividing its inner coats, the ligature should be removed, and the wound closed and allowed to heal by the first intention; his object being to eliminate the dangers of suppuration in the 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xiii. p. 217. 2 On Aneurism and its Cure, by a New Operation. London, 1828. 3 A Treatise on the Process employed by Nature in suppressing the Hemorrhage from Di- vided and Punctured Arteries ; and on the Use of the Ligature. 1805. 4 Op. cit., 135.