ANEURISM. 514 cision over the bone to a little beyond the limit of the muscle; turn the triangular flap upward and outward, tying and cutting, if necessary, the ex- ternal jugular vein; then the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid being found, a director may be passed behind it1 as far as its sternal origin, and all the clavicular portion divided. This being pushed on one side, exposes the fascia over-lying the sterno-hyoid; the director, after a little opening in the aponeu- rosis has been made, can he insinuated behind that muscle, which also must be severed. It is well now to look and feel for the carotid artery before going on to divide the sterno-thyroid, whose outer edge covers that vessel, and never, as far as my experience of the dead subject goes, conceals the subclavian.2 3 * * The finger of the operator, after division of the sterno-hyoid, readily detects the longitudinal course and pulsation of the carotid, and may with ease push the edge of the sterno-thyroid from off its sheath, inward, in which position the muscle should be held with a blunt hook. "When thus the sheath of the vessel is brought into view, the operator should look for the large veins that always, but more especially if there have been dyspnoea, overlie it. Choosing a vacant spot, he merely nicks the loose structure in which they lie, and then pushes them up and down, tearing the cellular tissue a little, till the dense fibrous sheath is bared sufficiently—first, to have a small opening made in it, and then to be slit up. This should be done on the front, inner aspect. Now, at this part the vein diverges a little from the artery, so as to leave a'triangular interval through which the vagus nerve runs. A blunt hook is placed over this, and it is to be drawn with the jugular vein gently outward. The next point is to find the subclavian. To do this the operator must remember that the usual description and delineation of the innominate bifurcation is incorrect. It is generally depicted as though the two branches arose side by side and almost at right angles to each other. In reality, the subclavian springs behind the carotid, and the angle between the two vessels is very acute; therefore, to detect the subclavian, the operator must place his finger at the back, outer aspect of the carotid, when, passing it down, he comes generally, a few lines above the clavicle, to the slightly divergent pulsating line of the subclavian, which lies deeper than the carotid by the whole diameter of that vessel.8 In selecting the spot for placing the ligature* it is well not to put it quite close to the bifurcation, but also not too near the border of the scaleni, lest the recurrent laryngeal or the phrenic nerve should be injured. The pneumogastric nerve and the jugular vein should be kept not too forcibly outward, and the needle should be passed from below, while with his left forefinger the surgeon gently presses the pleura downward and outward. Some obstruction behind the artery will very likely be encountered, but it is better patiently and gently to overcome this, and never on any account to attempt to pass the needle the other way; for if this be attempted, the point of the instrument is certain to penetrate the pleura. Having now passed and tied the ligature, the surgeon should consider the advisability of also securing the vertebral artery. It lies in the groove between the longus colli and the scalenus, so that the jugular vein must now be held 1 It may, by an operator sure of his hand, he cut freely. 2 The mere division of the muscle is in itself unimportant, but there lies behind it a plexus of large veins, passing from the thyroid body to the internal jugular, generally distended by the dyspnoea accompanying aneurism at the root of the neck. Their division causes profuse bleed- ing, and subsequent difficulty in recognizing the deeper parts. This happened in both of Auvert’s cases, while the fortunate knife of Colles missed a large vein just behind the muscle. Hayden, too, encountered severe bleeding when dividing the sterno-thyroid. 3 In one case, owing to the depth of the vessel, Liston thought it might arise from the aorta to the left of the right carotid, and pass to the right scaleni behind the oesophagus. This, of course, may have been the condition of things, but, also, he may have been mistaken.