NEURITIS. 581 that there is in these cases a true interstitial neuritis, which does not neces- sarily occasion atrophy and destruction of the nerve fibres, but which causes an increase in the size of the nerve, and is frequently accompanied by spon- taneous pains along the course of the nerve-trunk, and by a state of very acute sensibility of this trunk to pressure. This lesion of nerves is observed most readily in the nerves of the extremities.” It is known that optic neuritis may be developed in consequence of lesion of the encephalon and of its membranes (Bouchut, Galezowski). The existence of ascending neuritis was established by Lepelletier and Graves; it arises from the peripheral nerves, or even from the organs in which they terminate, when attacked with inflammation. This neuritis may reach the spinal cord and the nerves thence proceeding, and produce reflex paralysis.1 It has been suggested by some authors that traumatic tetanus may be due to an ascending neuritis. Pathological Anatomy.—Several varieties of neuritis maybe recognized: if the inflammation remains limited to the neurilemma, it constitutes 'perineu- ritis; if it attacks the connective tissue which separates the nerve fibres, it is interstitial neuritis; finally, inflammation of the nerve elements themselves -constitutes parenchymatous neuritis (Charcot, Pierret), with a moniliform ap- pearance of the fibres, proliferation of the cells of each interannular seg- ment, and disappearance of the axis cylinder. Neuritis is also distinguished as acute and chronic. In acute neuritis there are observed redness and swelling of the nerve; there is hypersemia of the perifascicular and intrafascicular vessels, and there is formed, in the perifascicular connective tissue, a serous or sero-fibrinous exudation. Miliary hemorrhages are also observed. At a later period, if the inflammation is intense, the nerve is softened, and the nerve fibres are im- mersed in the midst of a red, spongy tissue, and entirely reduced to a semi- fluid pulp. Suppurative inflammation is rare; we have seen that the lamellar sheath offers a barrier to the pus; but in wounds of nerves, the lamellar sheath being destroyed, the suppuration can reach the intrafascicular connective- tissue (Cornil and Ranvier). Generally, after acute neuritis, the elements are regenerated, and resume their functions. The inflammation may, how- ever, pass into the chronic state, while giving rise to a connective-tissue neo- plasia. In chronic neuritis, which often occurs as a primary affection, there is par- ticularly observed a tendency to the occurrence of connective-tissue neo- plasia, to induration, to sclerosis. The nerve is thickened ; it presents some- times knotty enlargements, or small tumors (fibromata or myxomata), due to a circumscribed perineuritis and often confounded with neuromata (Poincare); it is grayish or purplish, and adheres to the neighboring tissues. Frequently the cellular new formation occupies, at the same time, the perifascicular tissue and the lamillar sheath (proliferating, interstitial neuritis); this leads to com- pression of the nerve fasciculi, and to their degeneration and atrophy. The disease continuing, the nerve is transformed into a fibrous cord, hard, pigmented, and formed of connective-tissue elements. There are found at the same time the trophic lesions which accompany neuritis. This may -extend towards the spinal cord. Symptoms of Neuritis.—It is difficult to give a general description of symp- toms applicable to all cases of neuritis, as much on account of the functional 1 Vide supra, p. 576.