SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 273 fever. He improved for a week, and the wound began to look healthy, when pyaemia set in. On the 22d he died, fifteen days after the operation. Necroscopy proved that pyaemia caused death. The right lung contained secondary abscesses, and the right Fig. 456. Death pleural cavity was full of pus. The specimen is represented in the accompanying wood- cut (Fig. 456). The axillary artery has been opened transversely, seemingly to show the distal coagulum. (4) Secondary hemorrhages are not unfrequently produced by the sloughing of the coats of arteries at the points where they have been secured by liga- tures. The following abstract and wood-cut (Fig. 457) will serve to illustrate this topic:— A sergeant, aged 22,1 received a shot wound at the upper third of the right arm June 4, 1864, the ball passing antero-posteriorly ; the wound sloughed, and secondary hemor- rhage ensued on the 25th ; the axillary artery was ligated under chloroform. On July 1, hemorrhage arose from the axillary, the artery having sloughed at the point ofliga- tion. The artery was then tied again high up in the axilla, by enlarging the previous wound of operation, and without anaesthesia. The patient was exsanguinated, having lost about thirty ounces of blood, and died one hour after the operation. Only the ter- minal subclavian and upper axillary portions of the vessel, with their branches, are repre- sented in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 457). Fig. 457. Showing ligation of the right axillary artery in the first part of its course, for secondary hemorrhage caused by •sloughing of the artery at the point where it had been ligatured for a previous hemorrhage. Spec. 2545, A. M. M. (Posterior view.) (5) Secondary hemorrhages are sometimes produced by the liquefaction and breaking down of the coagula and adhesions which have been formed at the mouths of wounded arteries, and by which they have been more or less firmly occluded. "When this retrograde metamorphosis of the fibrinous material by which the apertures in wounded vessels are, in general, perma- nently closed, takes place, it denotes a more or less rapidly deteriorating con- dition of the general health of the patient, since its occurrence is due to constitutional rather than to local causes. ' Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., p. 441. VOL. III.—18