INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 578 the region of the injured nerve—pains which are generally violent, parox- ysmal, and accompanied with formication, tingling, and sensations of smart- ing and burning. These pains may be accompanied with various trophic or vaso-motor disturbances, such as reddish or purplish coloration of the skin, lowering (Yulpian) or elevation of temperature (Hayem), local hyperidrosis, ulcerated panaris, bullous eruptions, etc. At the same time the limb is weakened, and the muscles are atrophied. These phenomena may be confined to the injured limb, as in the cases of Bourke, Schwahn, Yulpian, and Hayem. In other instances they extend, as in the case of Charcot, to the opposite limb. Leyden, Yulpian, Terrier, and Le Dentu, have reported cases of this kind. But in these cases there were traumatisms very much more grave and more extended than in that of M. Charcot; large and deep burns in Yulpian’s and Terrier’s cases, and a penetrating wound of the knee in that of Leyden. The extension of the symptoms may be even more considerable, as is proved by the already classical case of Barlow, and by the cases of Poncet and Heurtaux. Barlow relates that a laborer, 25 years old, gave himself a con- tused wound of the hand, followed by sharp inflammation, and requiring ten weeks to heal. Eventually, weakness of the hand supervened, and then of the arm. At a still later period there was complete paralysis of both motion and sensation of the entire limb. Analogous symptoms occurred in the feet, and, finally, the lower extremities became absolutely powerless and insen- sible. Treatment with corrosive sublimate caused some amelioration, but the patient had a fall, his condition became aggravated, his arm and his legs were again paralyzed, and he finally died. At the autopsy, the spinal cord was found reduced to a pulp in the lower cervical and dorsal regions. “ It was the irritation of the peripheral nerves,” says Eisenmann, in speaking of this case, “ that without doubt determined, by reflex action, a stasis and softening of the spinal cord.” Heurtaux’s case was very analogous. Here it was a wound by a piece of bottle glass, with complete section of the left sciatic nerve, which was the origin of the symptoms. Two years after, there was complete paralysis of the left lower extremity, with muscular atrophy, and, on the right side, marked feebleness of motility and sensibility. The same functional disturbances were present in both upper extremities; the patient could move them, but without any energy; sensibility was blunted.. There was incontinence of urine and of feces. At the autopsy, both ends of the sciatic nerve were found, separated by an interval of eight centimetres (3 inches +). The spinal cord was softened throughout its entire length, the softening affecting particularly the posterior columns; it was white softening without a trace of vascularization. In Poncet’s case, a gunshot wound of the right brachial plexus determined a paralysis of the corresponding arm. Three years afterwards, in 1873, the left arm was already beginning to become weak. In 1875, the lesions were symmetrical in the two upper extremities. There was paralysis with atrophy of the biceps, of the brachialis anticus, of all the posterior muscles of the forearm, and of all the interossei; the thenar emi- nence was slightly flattened. Sensibility was abolished upon the dorsal sur- face of the forearm. There was, besides, atrophy of the pectoral, trapezius, deltoid, and upper part of the latissimus dorsi. The serratus magnus was beginning to be involved; a decrease in size of the glutei was recognized, and a general weakness of the lower limbs. In all these cases it is seen that muscular atrophy is the constant and pre- dominant symptom. The paralysis consecutive to injuries of nerves is emi- nently an atrophic paralysis. This peculiarity is important, for one of the most remarkable consequences of experimental neuritis propagated to the rpinal cord—a consequence described by all investigators—is the rapid