74 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. itself against the vertebrae, in the region of the umbilicus. For this pur- pose, Lister’s or Pancoast’s abdominal tourniquet (Figs. Ill, 112, Vol. I. p. 568) should he employed. The pad is moved by a long screw, so as to act upon the aorta; the counter-pressure is furnished by the cushion for the back. The artery compressors of Skey and Erichsen may also be employed to con- trol the circulation in the abdominal aorta. Esmarch’s Apparatus.—Esmarch’s apparatus for the bloodless operation affords a very simple, a very efficient, and a very safe means of arresting the circulation. If an elastic band of India-rubber, whether round or flat, be wound with strong traction several times round a limb, and the ends fastened by a knot or safety pin, all the soft parts, and with them the arteries and veins, may be so firmly compressed that not a drop of blood can pass through. Fig. 356. Esmarch’s apparatus for elastic compression. ligature, made also of India-rubber, wi clamp, or a safety-pin for fastening the ( It is evident that the effects of an elastic band, when properly applied, must be continuous and lasting, while the strap of Petit’s tourniquet soon stretches and thereby becomes inefficient. The elastic band also can be successfully applied in any position we may choose; and its em- ployment does not require an inti- mate anatomical knowledge of the part which is subjected to compres- sion. In urgent cases, an elastic brace may be used in its stead. ^Esmarch’s apparatus for perform- ing operations on the extremities without loss of blood consists essen- tially of an elastic roller made of India-rubber, and an elastic tube or li a chain and hook, or a ring, or a ids. In Fig. 356 an elastic roller is Fig. 357. Fig. 358. The elastic tube or ligature fastened with Langenbeck’s clamp for fastening Esmarch’s elastic roller, a brass ring. represented, together with an elastic tube or ligature wound around its ex- terior, and fastened with a hook and chain. Figs. 357, 359 and 360 show the mode of securing the apparatus with a ring, and Fig. 358 the mode of