INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 736 1 Schmidt’s Jalirbiicher, 1872. Gunshot Fractures of the Knee treated by Excision of the Joint. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Circular No. 6, S. G. 0. (U. S. Army) ...... 10 8 “ “ “ (Foreign Armies) . . . . .12 11 Chisholm and Warren. (Confederate Army) 5 3 Billroth’s Briefe. (Franco-Grerman War) ..... 22 19 Geissel. (Franco-German War) 3 3 Reported to me by Dr. Carl ProegLer. (Franco-German War) . 25 25 Herrgott. (Franco-German War) ....... 1 1 Culbertson’s Prize Essay, Trans. Am. Med. Association ... 60 45 Cousin 44 38 Chenu. (Franco-German War) 102 95 Lotzbeck 66 48 Kuster 101 66 451 362 Mortality of gunshot fractures of the knee, treated by resection, 80 per cent. It is evident that to some extent these authorities overlap, so to speak— that is to say, they have in a few instances included the same cases—but it is not possible from their documents to sift out all the repetitions. Moreover, as the deaths and recoveries are duplicated alike, the result is the same. Gunshot Fractures of the Knee-joint treated by Amputation. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Circular No. 6, S. G. 0 452 331 Mortality of gunshot fractures of the knee-joint, treated by amputation at the lower third of the thigh, 73 per cent. These tables may be summarized as follows:— Gunshot fractures of the knee have given when treated: (1) Without operation, 80 per cent, mortality. (2) By excision of the knee, • 80 “ “ (3) By amputation at the lower third of the thigh, 73 “ “ It is evident that amputation is the safest course, as far as past methods of treatment are concerned, and common sense offers a good l’eason for it. Seve- ral hundred fragments of dead bone and cartilage imprisoned in a pierced synovial capsule, may be expected to cause death in almost all cases. Dr. Bey her, of the Prussian army, tried antiseptic treatment in some cases, without any operation, and in others made an attempt by a sort of pump, or other mechanical device, to draw out the fragments before ap- plying antiseptic dressings. His success was decidedly bad, as might naturally have been expected. He reports one case, however, treated on another plan with success. The joint was laid widely open, cleared from fragments, and then treated antiseptically, with the wound unclosed. One case proves noth- ing, hut in view of the fact that the most successful method yet known, viz., amputation, has resulted in the death of nearly three-quarters of the patients, I think that the plan is worthy of further consideration and trial. It would certainly rid us of the septic dangers which destroy so many patients, and might possibly prove a great advance in surgical practice in cases of this destructive form of injury. Conclusions.—The above suggestion is based on reason, but it has not been tried on a large scale, and until it has been thus tested, it remains among the things which are uncertain. At present, the profession is practically agreed on treating comminuted, gunshot fractures of the knee-joint by amputation, which should be primary, if possible. Where the joint is simply opened, or but slightly fractured, opinions differ to some extent, but Max Schmidt1