INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 210 fatal in the same way. The extension of morbid processes from unhealthy wounds into the severed veins, through their open mouths, has often been observed. For instance, Dr. Macleod, in his ISTotes on the Surgery of the Cri- mean war, states: “We had many most beautiful examples, post-mortem, of veins leading from the stump remaining round, patulous, and filled with pus, and sometimes reddened in their interior. It was not uncommon to trace the pus-filled vein from the thigh to the vena cava.”1 There is no doubt that a septicsemic thrombosis is readily started in severed veins whose open ends lie uncovered in unhealthy suppurating wounds; and that this septicsemic thrombosis is much inclined to spread upward toward the right auricle. I have several times found such thromboses on examining, post-mortem, the bodies of those dead from gunshot fractures of the thigh and similar injuries. Hence, I think that Dr. Macleod, with much propriety, raises the question whether it would not he justifiable to ligature the chief veins of amputated limbs, at the time of the operation, especially, if the so-called purulent ab- sorption should be an accident of common occurrence. He states that “nume- rous cases are on record in which the ligature of veins has not only not been followed by evil results, but has absolutely been the apparent cause of pre- venting inflammation and pus-absorption.” This is particularly well illus- trated in a case related by Mr. Johnston, of St. George’s Hospital, in the journals of 1857. In that case, those vessels which had been tied were free from both inflammation and pus, while those not included in ligatures were full of pus, and “ much inflamed.” I do not doubt that ligatures applied to 'veins, in wounds likely to become the seat of unhealthy suppuration, may prevent the introduction of septic matter into the blood, as well as the occur- rence of septicsemic thrombosis, and septicaemia itself. My views fully accord with Velpeau’s, concerning the advisability of oftentimes securing wounded veins with ligatures, when he in substance says : “ The dangers of ligation, which so many surgeons have insisted on for half a century, are shown to be farthest from the truth, and I should not be surprised to find that it would prove more advantageous to close veins immediately with ligatures, than to leave them open at the bottom of wounds.”2 Mr. Liston, too, feared the consequences much more when the ends of divided veins remained open in suppurating wounds, than when they had been closed by applying ligatures. To prevent the occurrence of septicaemia or pyaemia in cases where veins of importance are wounded, it is advisable: (1) To secure the opened veins with carbolized catgut ligatures applied on the cardiac, as well as on the distal, side of the wound. (2) To treat the wound itself on the antiseptic plan. (3) To prevent any collections of purulent matter from forming or burrowing around the injured veins, by thorough drainage, and by frequent renewals of the dressings. In cases where the skull is injured, it is, like- wise, very important to prevent any collections of matter from forming on the sinuses of the dura mater, by early incisions, by changing the dress- ings at short intervals, and by securing as good a drainage of the wound as possible. Ligation of Veins.—When a delicate, strong, and well-waxed silk thread is drawn as tightly as possible around a large vein, its tunics become thrown into longitudinal folds or plaits. Upon slitting the vessel open, these folds are seen to be well marked, but without any division of the tunics ; qnd by holding the vessel between the eye and the light, a decided transverse furrow or indentation, corresponding to the site of the ligature, is discernible, which 1 Op. cit., pp. 350, 351, Am. ed. 2 Operative Surgery, vol. ii. p. 2, Am. ed.