INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 316 Fig. 499. by the side of the psoas muscle, so as to touch the artery about two inches above Poupart’s ligament. He took care to disturb the peritoneum as little as possible, detaching it to no greater extent than was requisite to admit his two fingers to touch the vessel. The pulsations of the artery made it clearly distinguishable. By means of an eyed probe two ligatures were conveyed under the vessel; one of them was carried upward as far as the artery had been detached, and the other downward; they were firmly tied, and the vessel was divided in the interspace between them.1 Stevens, of Santa Cruz, tied the internal iliac by an operation which was substantially the same as that of Abernethy. Sir Astley Cooper’s Operation.—A semilunar incision is to be made through the integuments in the direction of the fibres of the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle (Fig. 499). One extremity of this incision will be situated near the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; the other will termi- nate a little above the inner margin of the abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle will be exposed, and is to be divided throughout the extent and in the direction of the external wound. The flap which is thus formed being raised, the spermatic cord will be seen passing under the margin of the internal oblique and transverse muscles. The opening in the fascia which lines the transverse muscle, through which the spermatic cord passes, is situated in the mid-space between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The epi- gastric artery runs precisely along the inner margin of this opening, beneath which the external iliac artery is situated. If, there- fore, the finger be passed under the spermatic cord through this opening in the fascia which lines the transverse muscle, it will come into immediate contact with the artery, which here lies on the outside of the external iliac vein. The artery and vein are connected together by dense cellular tissue, which must be separated to enable the operator to pass a ligature, by means of an aneurism-needle, between them and around the artery.2 Care must be taken to avoid the epigastric artery, which runs near the inner part of the incision. Dupuytren, while performing this operation at the Hotel-1)ieu, in the autumn of 1821, wounded the epigastric artery. The hemorrhage was so copious that two ligatures were required. Death from peritonitis ensued. Appreciation.—Mr. Norm an, of Bath, after trying both modes of operating, found that employed hf Sir Astley Cooper a more easy way of finding the artery than the longitudinal incision practised by Mr. Abernethy. Samuel Cooper and M. Roux both came to the same conclusion. Mr. Todd, also, after repeated trials of Mr. Abernethy’s and Sir A. Cooper’s methods on the cadaver, concluded that the plan recommended by the latter afforded the greater facility of applying the ligature to the artery, because more room was obtained by it, and with less disturbance of the peritoneum. For these reasons Cooper’s method of ligaturing the external iliac artery, or some slight modification of his method, has almost universally been preferred by sur- Sir A. Cooper’s operation for tying the external iliac artery. (Sedillot.) 1 Surgical Observations, 1804. 2 Hodgson, Diseases of Arteries, etc., pp. 421, 422. London, 1815.