276 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. sion applied with a pad in the axilla. On July 12 and 13, troublesome hemorrhages still again occurred, and on the 14th the patient died.1 The return of pulsation at the wrist showed how completely the circulation in the arm had been restored; two days afterwards, that is, as soon as the tension in the brachial artery was sufficiently strong to expel the clots at the wound, they were pushed out, and then the blood regurgitated freely through the distal portion of the artery into the wound, and a very profuse hemor- rhage ensued. The following example serves well to illustrate the difficulties in treating hemorrhage from wounds of the shoulder, which are sometimes encountered in practice:— Lieutenant-Colonel Dawson, aged 38, received, June 17, 1864, a gunshot flesh-wound of the left shoulder. The bullet was extracted, and on the 19th he was sent to general hospital at Washington. On the 27th, secondary hemorrhage to the amount of thirty ounces supervened. The operation of tying the axillary artery was resorted to, but the bleeding still continued. The distal extremity was then secured by tying the brachial artery. A few hours later, however, the hemorrhage burst forth afresh, and finally the patient died.2 In this case the ligature of the hrachial stopped the bleeding for a time by arresting the regurgitation of blood in the brachial artery. From what vessels did the blood escape which finally destroyed this patient? Clearly not from the axillary artery above, nor from the brachial artery below, the points where the ligatures were applied. But a long stretch of the main artery, embracing its wounded part, lay between these two points, and from this some five or six important branches were sent off, namely, several of the thoracic branches, the subscapular, the two circumflex arteries, and the superior profunda; and the hemorrhage which destroyed this patient was doubtless caused by regurgitation of blood through these branches into the main trunk, whence it readily escaped by means of the wound. This result could have been obviated by tying the main artery at the spot where it was injured, with two ligatures, one of them being applied on each side of the aperture in its walls. The axillary artery, therefore, whenever it is the source of secondary hemorrhage, must always be tied in the wound with ligatures placed on each side of the breach in its walls, and in close proximity thereto. When promptly treated in this manner, these hemorrhages give no further trouble. Treatment of Secondary Hemorrhage.—The prophylaxis of secondary hemorrhage demands that all wounds, whether the result of accident or of surgical operations, but more particularly those which involve bloodvessels, shall be kept free from purulent matter, by antiseptic treatment and thorough drainage, especially the latter. Otherwise, ulceration and sloughing of the arterial and venous tunics, together with softening and disintegration of the occluding coagula, are very liable to supervene, and secondary hemorrhage to ensue. The following abstract and the wood-cut accompanying it (Fig. 459) illustrate in a useful manner the disastrous consequences which may follow the retention and burrowing of pus in wounds made for the deligation of the common carotid artery:— A sergeant, aged 21,3 was wounded Aug. 25,1864, on the field, by a musket-ball, which entered over the right mastoid process, injured the external ear, and lodged under the 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., p. 443. 2 Ibid., Second Surgical Vol., p. 442. 3 Ibid., First Surg. Vol.^p. 393.