WOUNDS OF NERVES. 559 As regards the diagnosis of the cause of the secondary symptoms, neuritis cannot he distinguished from sclerosis and atrophy of the nerve trunks, un- less the secondary symptoms have supervened very quickly, or unless the neuritis has determined, previous to the paralysis, symptoms of motor exci- tation. Finally, the absence of exact limitation of the muscular paralysis, at a period remote from the infliction of the injury, should lead the surgeon to suspect a lesion of the nerve centres. Prognosis.—Benign as far as the wound is concerned, traumatic lesions of nerves are grave through their consequences. The prognosis is the more serious in cases of incomplete division, and in those of contused wounds and wounds complicated by the presence of foreign bodies, which are more liable to be followed by the sequelae referred to than those in which the nerve-sec- tion is complete. Moreover, in regard to recent wounds, the prognosis varies with the general condition of the patient, with the lesions of the surround- ing parts, and, in general, with all the circumstances which may favor or retard the re-establishment of the nerve functions. A guarded prognosis should always be given, therefore, in cases of neuritis or persistent neuralgia, on account of the imminence of trophic disturbances. In chronic cases, the prognosis depends upon the state of the electro-con- tractility of the muscles; but the absence of this should not lead the surgeon to despair of re-establishing their function, for it may be restored under the use of electrization. In cases of intense neuritis, there may be observed tonic contractions, which indicate the irreparable loss of the properties of the muscle, which, moreover, then undergoes atrophy with great rapidity. Treatment.—The immediate treatment of wounds of nerves presents seve- ral indications; pain is to be obviated, as is inflammation, and separation of the ends of the nerve in cases of complete division. All authorities agree in advising rest of the limb, obtained, if necessary, by means of an immovable apparatus, in such a position that the injured nerve shall not he pulled upon ; resolvents and antiphlogistics if the inflammatory complications are threat- ening ; opiates, subcutaneous injections of muriate of morphia, or even inha- lations of ether or chloroform, to allay the pain which immediately follows the injury, or preferably chloral if there is a tendency to muscular spasm; finally, at a later period, sulphate of quinia, if the neuralgia assumes an intermittent form. If the painful symptoms persist in spite of this medical treatment, which does not often occur, except in cases of punctured wound and of incomplete division of the nerve, surgical intervention becomes neces- sary, and instead of the cauterizations employed by the older surgeons, en- largement of the wound by incision is now preferred, that is to say, the conversion of an incomplete into a complete nerve-section. But the failure of medical treatment to relieve the early pain is not frequent enough to justify preventive incisions in all cases of incomplete division, as has been advised by some German authors. In order to obtain immobilization in a favorable position, Tripier recommends, in all cases of nerve wound, that the limb should be placed in a moderately tight silicate of potassium bandage, in which a fenestra can be cut, if the patient complain of pain, and which, if there is the slightest sign of constriction, can be transformed into a gutter [posterior splint] by splitting it in its entire length. But this method of treatment, though well adapted to many cases, may at times be dangerous on account of the obstacle which it offers to the examination of the parts, the local or general numbness perhaps preventing the patient from being con- scious of a constriction which is the more dangerous that it is exerted upon