(325 ) SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. BY JOHN A. WYETH, M.D., PROFESSOR OF SURGERY IN THE NEW YORK POLYCLINIC ; SURGEON TO MT. SINAI HOSPITAL, NEW YORK. Phlebitis. •In February, 1784, before the London “ Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge,” John Hunter read a dissertation in which he described an adhesive, suppurative, and ulcerative inflammation of the lining membrane of veins, which he had observed as a result of amputations and other complicated surgical operations and injuries. Scientific literature, prior to this date, contains many descriptions of conditions which undoubt- edly resulted from phlebitis (Aretseus, Pare, and others); but the morbid anatomy of this inflammatory process had never been so nearly understood and described before this observation of the great English surgeon. Follow- ing in the footsteps of Hunter, others, including Baillie, Bichat, Hodgson, Cooper, Travers, and Cruveilhier, contributed to the study of this important subject; but it was not until the more perfect construction of the microscope, in later years, rendered the accurate study of normal histology possible, that the true pathology of phlebitis was thoroughly understood. Definition and Morbid Anatomy.—Phlebitis means an inflammation of all the tissues which enter into the formation of the walls of a vein. Endo- phlebitis, rnesophlebitis, and periphlebitis are terms used to designate the inflam- matory process involving respectively the internal, middle, and external layers of the venous wall. The progress of inflammation in the tissues of veins is closely analogous to that of the same process in all other structures, namely: irritation, hyper- semia, tumefaction, infiltration of the extra-vascular spaces with emigrant, embryonic, and pus-cells ; the process terminating in cicatrization (often with adhesions), calcareous degeneration, suppuration, or gangrene. The mode of termination will depend upon the severity of the attack, the character of the lesion, and the power of resistance and recuperation existing in the tissues. The inflammatory process involves a tubular structure, the walls of which are composed of an inner layer (intima), made up of flat, polygonal cells (the endothelia), a middle layer chiefly made up of elastic tissue, and an outer layer, containing elastic loops, connective tissue, and unstriped muscle. Blood- vessels and nerves traverse the outer and middle tunics, following the bundles of connective tissue. The cells of the lining membrane are smaller than the arterial endothelia, and are embedded in a fibrillated, intercellular substance (Cornil and Ranvier). The elastic and muscular tissues are less developed than in the arteries (Heitz- mann). These are so irregularly arranged that any division into middle and