INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 136 not absorbed, the inflammatory process is lighted up in the bruised part, the tube of the artery is still further narrowed by the occurrence of inflamma- tory swelling, and occlusion of the artery may follow, with gangrene of the region deriving its supply of nutrient blood from the occluded vessel, as happened in the following instance A soldier was wounded November 27, 1863, by a minie-ball which entered the left thigh, on its antero-exterior surface, six inches below the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, dipped beneath the integuments and deep fascia, and emerged from its inner surface four inches below the pubes, passing thence into the other thigh. Gangrene of the left foot soon followed. On December 14, the left leg was amputated at the junction of its lower and middle thirds; the artery was controlled during the operation by pressure of the thumb alone ; there was very little hemorrhage; the tissues were flabby at the place of section. Pyaemia ensued, and on January 14, 1864, the patient died, on the forty-eighth day after the injury and the thirty-first after amputation. Autopsy Both orifices of the wound in the upper part of the left thigh were closed, but the track of the ball was occupied by an abscess containing thin fetid pus. The ball had passed behind the femoral artery, impinging against its sheath, however, and bruising it. At this point the walls of the artery were much thickened, and its calibre lessened one-half. The sheath contained a firm coagulum about one inch long. The specimen was sent to the Army Medical Museum, and is thus described in the Cata- logue : “ A wet preparation of the upper portion of the left femoral artery, with the walls much thickened by a coagulum in the sheath, following impingement of a ball, which induced diminution of calibre.”1 To briefly present the points of this case: The missile bruised the femoral vessels without opening their sheath, and the hemorrhagic and inflammatory swelling constricted the tube of the artery very much at the bruised part— so much is certain; it is highly probable also that the coagula which formed in the canal of the femoral artery, where it was inflamed and constricted, were swept onward by the blood-stream, as emboli, into the tibial arteries, and plugged them to such extent as to cause, with the lessened blood-supply from above, gangrene of the foot. Another preparation belonging to our Army Medical Museum sheds addi- tional light on the same point. It is thus described in the Catalogue: “ A wet preparation of the popliteal artery, showing a clot formed in it from inflammation along the track of a ball which did not involve the arterial coats in the sloughing process. Amputation was performed to obviate spha- celus, and the patient recovered.”2 In this example, the ball, in its passage, bruised the popliteal artery; there followed inflammation and occlusion by coagulum of the bruised portion of the vessel; from this arrest of blood- supply, gangrene of the leg ensued. In a case reported by Guthrie, which belongs to the same category, the ball passed between the femoral artery and vein. The patient died sixteen days after the injury from gangrene of the foot and leg. After death, Mr. Guthrie obtained the specimen. The coats of the artery were not destroyed in substance, although wounded. Atthis spot the vessel was “much contracted in size, and filled above and below with coagula, which prevented the trans- mission of blood.” The artery was therefore impervious. The coats of the vein were but little injured, although it was “ filled by a coagulum and im- passable” at the bruised part.3 In this case, too, the traumatic arteritis caused by the bruise was the chief factor in producing the arterial occlusion. 1 Catalogue A. M. M., p. 456, Specimen 2114. * Ibid., p. 457, Specimen 2150. s Diseases and Injuries of Arteries, p. 242.