INCISED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 189 A man, aged 36, accidentally stabbed himself with a pocket-knife toward the inner side and a little below the middle of the left thigh. There was a profuse escape of arterial blood, and he fainted. He was treated by compression for eighteen days, and brought to hospital on March 8. There was found some swelling surrounding an aperture in the skin an inch long, rounded in form, and situated as above stated. The tumor was hard, and did not pulsate. On the 12tli, sharp hemorrhage suddenly occurred to the extent of an ounce or two. On the 16th, a pulsating tumor having formed at the seat of injury during the past two days, the artery was cut down upon by enlarging the wound, and tied, under chloroform. A large quantity of firmly laminated fibrin was turned out. The artery was compressed on the pubis by a finger during the ope- ration. But little blood was lost, and recovery, though somewhat tardy, followed.1 One or two additional examples, briefly narrated, -will impart more infor- mation concerning the treatment of this most formidable lesion of the femo- ral artery than a lengthy disquisition:— Private George Hastings, Co. K, 37th Infantry, was admitted to hospital July 30, 1868, having been accidentally stabbed the same day, in the upper part of the thigh, with a long, narrow, exceedingly sharp hunting-knife, which, passing by the superficial jfemoral artery, partially divided the profunda femoris below the origin of the external circumflex. The hemorrhage was excessive. Some few moments only elapsed after the accident before complete syncope ensued. Pressure on the common femoral arrested the hemorrhage, but the prostration was so extreme as to prohibit operative interference at the time, and stimulants and nutriments were administered. At 10 o’clock P. M., hemorrhage again occurring, now from the lower or distal extremity of the artery, the wound was enlarged and the arteria profunda secured with ligatures above and below the lesion. The patient was kept for several days under the influence of morphia. Slight pressure continued on the common femoral, although not sufficient at any time to greatly impede the circulation in the limb. At no time after the operation was the cir- culation arrested. On the nineteenth day the upper ligature was removed, but the lower one did not come away until the thirty-fourth day. The patient recovered completely, and was returned to duty in the following October, between two and three months after the casualty.2 The following case, in which the employment of compression to temporarily restrain the first bleeding from an incised wound of the femoral artery, appears to have been neglected, has peculiar interest in this connection:— A man, aged 53, was admitted to hospital on November 11, pulseless and faint from the loss of blood. There was a small wound, two inches below Poupart’s liga- ment, in his left thigh, over the femoral artery, caused by a knife that had accidentally slipped. The bleeding, which evidently had been great, had ceased. He was placed in bed; and, as reaction came on, a pulsating swelling was i-evealed beneath the wound. Nov. 14—Tumor larger, and pulsation moi-e marked. The tumor was laid open with a view to ligature the artery above and below the aperture in it. A large, gaping wound was found in the femoral artery. Much difficulty was experienced in applying the proximal ligature, on account of a lai’ge branch given off from the artery beneath the wound, which proved to be the profunda. After applying the proximal and distal liga- tures and letting up the pressure, a fierce gush of blood from regurgitation through the profunda followed. This artery also was tied, and the hemorrhage ceased. The patient sank gradually, and died on the 21st, from exhaustion due to the loss of blood.3 The observations on punctured wounds of the femoral artery, and their treatment, at page 123, should also be consulted in this connection. Incised wounds of the 'popliteal artery are not frequent occurrences; still, Deschamps has related a case:—- Etienne Repasses, a servant, aged 41, was admitted to hospital, on May 9, for a stab in the ham, inflicted with the point of a sabre, which completely divided the pop- 1 British Medical Journal, August 3, 1872, p. 126. 2 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0. p. 242. 3 British Medical Journal, Feb. 13, 1875, p. 211.