INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 130 the intercostal arteries, etc., with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the walls of the chest, their branches connect the axillary and subclavian arteries; on the diaphragm, they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and the abdominal aorta (see Fig. 421); and in the walls of the abdomen they form anastomoses most remarkable for the remoteness of the vessels which they serve to connect, namely, the arteries of the upper and lower extremities (Harrison). When the aorta becomes narrowed or obliterated, the internal mammary arteries constitute the most important of the collateral channels for conducting blood to the lower ex- tremities. Each of these arteries is attended by two venae comites. The hemorrhage in every one of the six cases of wround involving the internal mammary artery, reported during the late civil war, was secondary. In but two of them were ligatures applied. Judson, in one instance, tied the artery, but the method of operating is not stated; the bleeding was arrested, and did not return, hut the patient continued to sink, and died six days after the operation from anaemia and traumatic pleuro-pneumonia. Bontecou, in another instance, where there was a so-called seton-wound of the chest, enlarged the wound of entrance, passed a piece of bandage through, and tied it over the ensiform cartilage, ligating the internal mammary artery ; the bleeding, however, was not permanently arrested, and the patient died five days afterward from recurrent hemorrhage with pneumonia. Four cases were treated mostly by inserting plugs soaked in styptics, and applying com- presses externally, but without benefit, as in the following examples A soldier, aged 20, was wounded June 3, 1864, the ball penetrating at left side of sternum, near junction with second rib, and emerging above clavicle, fracturing both sternum and clavicle. Patient became much reduced from profuseness of suppuration and pleuro-pneumonia. On the 10th, profuse hemorrhage from the external wound occurred, and death followed in twelve hours. Treatment consisted in plugging the wound with lint soaked in liquor ferri persulph. Necroscopy. The internal mammary was found in the mutilated tissues with its mouth gaping; no other vessel wounded. Again, a soldier, aged 26, was wounded July 1, 1863, by a conoidal ball which fractured the humerus, passed along the clavicle, and lodged behind the edge of the sternum upon the internal mammary artery. On August 23 this vessel was opened by sloughing, and hemorrhage to the amount of thirty ounces occurred. Cold applications and compresses were applied, but on the next day the patient died. In the remaining two cases the blood flowed inwardly, and accumulated in great quantity, in the pleural cavities.1 Secondary hemorrhage from this artery, then, is sometimes hard to detect, and often exceedingly difficult to control, and these results naturally follow its situation on the inner surface of the thorax, and the important offices which it performs in the organism. Ho example of primary hemorrhage from the internal mammary artery was reported during the war; still this vessel must, not unfrequently, have been opened by wounds. The conclusion is irresistible that in most instances where this vessel was penetrated by wounds, the victims perished on the field of battle before assistance arrived, while in some instances where the victims survived for a time, the source of bleeding was not detected because the blood flowed inwardly, and the hemorrhage was therefore concealed. In all stabs, as well as other wounds which cross the track of this artery, the occurrence of hemorrhage from the wound, without the spitting of blood, should lead the surgeon to suspect strongly that this vessel is involved, whereupon he should at once thrust a finger into the wound, and search for the open mouth of the artery, from which he will feel the blood issuing in 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War 'of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, pp. 523, 524, 548.