260 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. reported cases ; many of them were as large as a goose-egg or an apple, while several instances are mentioned of enormous tumefactions, as large as a child’s head or larger, which had been produced by trifling contusions, or had appa- rently arisen spontaneously. The so-called rheumatic affections are also of such frequent occurrence in bleeders, and their immediate relations, as to deserve special mention. The most important of these rheumatic diseases in bleeders are unquestionably the joint-affections. They comprise ail the grades of arthritic rheumatism, from simple inflammatory arthralgia up to the most copious synovial effu- sion. But rheumatic muscular affections completely resembling, in their clini- cal features, the ordinary forms of rheumatic myalgia, are met with in bleeders still more frequently than the joint-affections, and very often are superadded to the latter. Besides, those subject to haemophilia are peculiarly liable to neuralgic attacks, which most frequently involve the dental branches of the trigeminus. Grandidier mentions the striking frequency with which bleeders suffer from periodic attacks of violent tooth-ache, often indepen- dently of any obvious cause such as caries. Morbid Anatomy and Pathology.—With regard to anatomical changes, no apparatus of the body seems to be abnormally affected in bleeders so uniformly as the vascular system (Virchow). Both the older and more recent writers speak of the striking superficiality and abnormal distribution of the cutaneous and subcutaneous veins and arteries, and especially of the abnormal structure and width of the arteries. Thus, in quite a large series of cases, the intima of the smaller and larger arteries (the temporal and radial, the aorta, pul- monary, carotid, etc.), was found to he remarkably thin, and sometimes actually transparent, without any apparent diminution, however, in the elastic retractility of the coats of the vessels (Virchow); while in a certain number of these cases the lumen of the large arteries (aorta, pulmonary, etc.), and of their main branches, was abnormally narrow throughout the entire extent of the vessels (Schliemann, Virchow, TJhde). Very generally, also, where the autopsy was carefully made, the intima of both the large and the small arteries was distinctly seen to have undergone a partial fatty degeneration, quite analogous, as regards its locality and other characters, to the degen- erative changes of the inner coat of the vessels in anaemia and chlorosis (Im- mermann). There is, however, a second factor which may possibly be of the highest importance in producing the bleedings of haemophilia—a factor, moreover, which is not dependent upon the configuration of the vessels, but is directly connected with the absolute quantity of the habitual supply of blood. The greater this habitual supply, and the more the vascular apparatus is perma- nently overfilled in consequence of it, the more readily the clinical phenomena peculiar to the bleeder disease may arise, and the greater will be the tendency not merely to hemorrhages in general, but particularly to those of a profuse and scarcely controllable character. Thus, it may readily be conceived that, in cer- tain instances, the habitual existence of a high degree of absolute plethora may of itself be sufficient to maintain a bleeder disposition, without the interven- tion of the vascular anomalies above described. Or, in other words, we may suppose that although, in moderate degrees of habitual plethora, haemophilia requires for its development the concurrence of certain favoring conditions on the part of the vessels—e.g., delicacy of their walls and narrowness of their channels—still, the affection may now and then manifest itself as a clinical form of disease entirely unconnected with the vascular lesions above described (Immermann). The introduction of this second factor, that is, variations in the volume of blood, enables us to account satisfactorily for the fact that the dis-