INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 4 As a subcutaneous injection of morphia. in its relation to the lymphatic system, we can readily understand how dis- posed it is to lymphatic infection, and that diffuse peritonitis rapidly follows such infection from various sources. Puerperal peritonitis, like lymphangeitis, may he simple or septic (pysemic). The simple form is a local inflammation, owing to traumatic causes during delivery, is non-contagious, and not invariably fatal. In the septic form “ the process extends or may be traced, anatomically, through the lymphatics which convey the material they take up to the blood, and in this way excite inflam- matory processes in the large lymph spaces, and more particularly the peri- toneum . . . and is to be regarded as an accidental disease of a wound, a pysemic disease, in which the septic matter is first taken up by the lymphatics and conveyed onward by them ; on the blood taking up the putrid (bacteric) material by the lymph vessels, there arises a general infection—an actual septicaemia.’’ (Bauer.)1 Curnow2 remarks that, “ Uterine lymphangeitis has been generally confounded with uterine phlebitis. In puerperal cases the two affections may exist side by side, but they can be easily dis- tinguished. The cavities filled with pus in the uterine tissue in such cases are fre- quently lymphatic ampullae, and not “'true abscesses. This is shown by the seat of the vessels, the smooth wall of the cavity, and the fact that the pus is quite white, or cream-colored, without any admixture of blood. Indications of valves in the cavity, and the absence of metastatic abscesses in the lungs and liver, as well as the exten- sion of the disease to the adjacent glands, prove that the lymphatic system may be quite as much involved, if not more so, than the venous. In cases of so-called peri-uterine cellulitis and pelvic abscess, the following is frequently the sequence of the phenomena. In the first place there is a wound of the uterine mucous surface, engorgement, and in- flammation of the lymph sinuses, leading to the formation of pus, and extension, either direct or by the cellular tissue, to the peritoneum. The inflammatory exudation is par- ticularly noticeable where the cellular tissue is abundant—viz., in the broad ligaments and around the vaginal cul-de-sac. It may spread to the iliac fossae and even to the lumbar region. In all these situations the lymphatics are very numerous. Sometimes the ovary is involved in the suppuration, and this is explained when we consider that the body of the uterus and the ovaries have a common lymphatic system. Peri-uterine cellulitis is really often a peri-uterine lymphangeitis with infiltration into the surround- ing connective tissue, and corresponds exactly to some .cases of lymphangeitis in the ex- tremities. It may, of course, extend to the peritoneum, and undoubtedly there are many cases of primary pelvic peritonitis.” With regard to the treatment of septic uterine lymphangeitis, there is little to he said; it is invariably fatal, and we can merely add that strict antisepticity must be adopted as a prophylactic. As regards the general treatment of septic lymphangeitis, however, opium or turpentine stupes are of great value locally, in subduing pain, and perhaps the injection as a germicide of a satu- rated solution of carbolic acid may be of service; but the most valuable remedies are fresh air, quinine,3 opium,4 iron, and ammonia, with the anti- septic opening of abscesses as they occur. The strength must he supported by the use of beef-tea, brandy and egg mixture, and other stimulants, so regulated as the condition of the patient suggests. 1 Bradley, op. cit., pp. 90-1. 2 Gulstonian Lectures, 1879. 3 In doses of from ten to fifteen grains, to reduce the temperature.