483 BRACHIAL ANEURISM. bend of the elbow. This device was adopted. During the night the aneurism burst, a good deal of blood being lost before discovery of the accident. Mr. Taylor tied the brachial artery about the middle, with the thickest form of catgut which is made antiseptic. 15th. Some pulse in radial and ulnar arteries, which towards evening became strong. 17th. Pulse of both wrists alike. Flexion of elbow again resorted to. 20th. I had directed Mr. Taylor, if bleeding recurred, to send for me ; accordingly, on this date, I was summoned. Hemorrhage had set in, both from the accidental and from the operation wound. It was temporarily restrained by an Esmarch cord. On examining the wound, I found, lying on the artery, the knot of a catgut ligature—the loop which ought to have been surrounding the vessel had entirely disappeared. There was an opening in the vascular coats running about one-third around the tube. I tied above and below this opening with an ox aorta ligature, and cut the ends short.1 After this no bad symptom occurred, and in a fortnight the lad was convalescent, playing about the ward. Some slight pulsation in the radial, at the wrist, was detected on the 9th of July; it slowly increased, but was not strong when the patient left the hospital on the 12th. Ligation of the Brachial Artery at the Elbow.—To tie the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow is very easy ; taking the biceps tendon for his guide, the operator makes along its inner edge an incision about 1 \ inches long, and slipping a director beneath the fascia of the same name, slits it up ; he will thus expose the artery, lying between the tendon and the median nerve ; the needle should be slipped in between the nerve and artery. It is not always possible to avoid the median-basilic vein, even although ;it be visible; if it be divided, it should be tied at once. This operation is required in cases of arterio-venous aneurism at the bend of the elbow, but should not be em- ployed for aneurisms lower down, since the wound is likely to terminate in suppuration, and in burrowing of pus along the bicipital tendon into deep parts. Brachial Aneurism.—The brachial artery sometimes develops an aneu- rism at or near the bend of the elbow, as the result of a wound, but rarely spontaneously. The disease may be cured by using the Esmarch bandage, or by indirect pressure on the vessel above; but both procedures, especially if complete occlusion is aimed at, are very painful. In a few cases the tendency to spontaneous cure is so great that an occasional application of digital pres- sure, either by the patient himself or by assistants, will have all the desired effect. If this do not soon follow, or promise to follow, it is better not to persevere too long, as continued pressure over the median nerve becomes un- bearable, and may leave the limb for months in a painful and rather useless condition. Ligation of Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery may be easily reached in any part of its course—lying inside the biceps in the lower two thirds ; in its upper third, inside the coraco-brachialis muscle. If the operator be accorded by the disease liberty to choose the spot at which he will tie the vessel, a point a little below the middle of the arm is the best. The incision, which at this point need not be more than two inches long, is made to follow the inner margin of the biceps, and then, either on the director or otherwise, the fascia of the arm is slit up to the same extent; this exposes the median nerve, which covers the artery, and which may be drawn to either side, pre- ferably to the inner, since the basilic vein lies on that side, and both nerve 1 This operation, seeing that the wound had been exposed before I arrived, was not done under the spray ; although the parts were washed out with a five per cent, solution of carbolic acid, suppuration, not excessive, took place ; but nothing more was ever seen of the ligatures.