121 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OP ARTERIES. sometimes distinctly seen by the surgeon, issuing from the distal orifice after the proximal ligature has been tied (regurgitating hemorrhage), which already shows the necessity of applying distal as well as proximal ligatures in these wounds. A soldier, aged 23, was accidentally wounded August 18, 1864, by a bayonet-thrust at the bend of the elbow, cutting the brachial artery. The vessel was tied on each side of the wound, and the man recovered. All the patients treated in this way did well, blot so, however, with some who were treated on other plans ; for Dr. Otis, the surgical historiographer of the war, says: “There were one or two cases in which the reports convey inti- mations that stabs in the arm, implicating the brachial artery, proved fatal from malpractice—compression and styptics having been resorted to instead of ligation.”1 The following example, in which the brachial artery was punctured in the bend of the elbow with a penknife, will usefully illustrate what the treatment must be in order to prove successful: A good deal of blood was lost at the time, pouring out in a stream, not in jets, for the wound rvas an indirect one, the knife having entered obliquely. The patient was taken home, and the wound was strapped and bandaged ; this arrested the hemorrhage temporarily. But the bleeding recurred several times, until finally the original wound was enlarged by incisions, the coagula were turned out, a traumatic aneurism that was forming was laid open, and ligatures were passed around the artery above and below the wound. Recovery followed without any difficulty whatever.2 Arteries of the Forearm.—Punctured wounds of the radial, ulnar, and inter- osseous arteries or their branches, and the hemorrhage resulting therefrom, in recent cases where the parts are sound, will give the surgeon but little trouble, provided he treats them on the orthodox plan of bringing distinctly the bleeding orifice into view, applying a ligature on each side of it, and dividing the artery midway between the two ligatures, so that the ends may retract. But if the surgeon should rely on styptics and compression in such cases, he will have much trouble which could readily have been avoided by ligating the injured vessels at the outset, above and below their wounds.3 Palmar Arch.—Punctured wounds of the palmar arch always excite appre- hension, and give much trouble to the surgeon. Considerable differences exist among the plans of treatment recommended by eminent surgeons for this form of injury. Bryant points out that “extreme flexion of the forearm upon the arm, with forced supination of the hand, with or without a pad at the bend of the arm,” arrests completely the circulation through the brachial artery; and that “ under all circumstances, whether for injury or disease of the arteries of the hand and forearm, in which surgical interference is requisite, it would be well to remember this treatment, it being most effective.”4 Many favor compression. The readiness with which it can be applied to the hand predisposes strongly to its use. This mode of treatment, however, is not a good one—is not to be commended, for it very often fails. Every surgeon has seen examples of such a failure. The medical journals contain reports of many cases in which compression proved to be insufficient to control the hemorrhage from punctured or incised wounds of the palm, and ligation of the radial and ulnar arteries, and of the brachial artery, as well as other operative procedures, were resorted to in order to remedy this insufficiency. Compression is but ill adapted to restrain hemorrhage from wounds involving the palmar arches, because of the wonderful flexibility of the hand itself, and 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surgical Volume, p. 437. 2 British Medical Journal, May 29, 1869, p. 492; see also the section on Incised Wounds of the Brachial Artery. 3 See also under Incised Wounds. 4 Manual for the Practice of Surgery, p. 350, second Am. ed.