711 DISLOCATIONS OP THE BONES OF THE FOOT. or outward, as well as diagonally between these directions. Occasionally, the astragalus is said to have been revolved partially upon its own axis, without much lateral movement, and even to have been driven upward be- tween the bones of the leg. The causes are nearly the same as those which produce dislocations of the whole tarsus. The injury is diagnosed by observing that the foot is twisted to one side or the other, or very strongly flexed or extended, and that the astragalus forms a projecting tumor under the skin, in one or other location, as above stated. The tibia sinks down upon the os calcis, shortening the limb and causing the malleoli to approach the sole of the foot. In backward displacement, the tibia is forced somewhat forward, and the case resembles a backward dislo- cation of the tarsus. Sometimes from the stretching of the integument over the astragalus in its new position, the skin is ruptured, and the dislocation becomes compound, and from the great swelling and tension mortification may result. Reduction is readily brought about, and recovery is prompt if the circula- tion is not impaired. Compound dislocations are to be treated as other com- pound dislocations at the ankle. To effect reduction, the patient, after being anaesthetized, should have the knee flexed to a right angle, and the thigh held' vertically, as already described, counter-extension being made at the lower third of the thigh, and extension upon the foot by the hands of an assistant, while the surgeon tries, by forcing with the palms of his hands, to push the bones into place. Failing in this manner, the extending force must be increased by mechanical aids, such as the Jarvis’s adjuster, or pulleys. Where even this fails, the foot may be rocked to and fro during extension, to facilitate the surgeon’s efforts to insinuate the bone into its proper position. Hamilton advises that oblique dislocations should, if possible, be reduced first to those of the anterior form, after which the bone is more easily replaced. When the luxation has occurred laterally, the reduction is facilitated by turning the foot away from the dislocated bone, thus opening more widely the cavity for its reception. After reduction, the foot should be kept in strict repose, and signs of inflammation should be met with cold applications or warm fomentations, together with constitutional remedies for controlling the inflammatory tendency. In case all efforts at reduction fail, amputation or resection may be consi- dered, the choice of operation depending, in some degree, upon the amount of injury to the circulation and innervation of the foot. Dislocations of the Scaphoid and Os Calcis.—These bones are found dis- placed separately, or simultaneously. The study of the anatomical landmarks and comparison with the injured foot, show at once the nature of the injury. Treatment.—Reduction is effected as in dislocation of the astragalus, by making extension with the knee flexed to a right angle, and pressing the bones toward their places. The principles already laid down should govern the surgeon in the manage- ment of irreducible or compound dislocations of these hones. Amputation,, or by preference exsection, may be resorted to. As to what results would follow conservative treatment, too few cases have been recorded to enable any estimate to be made of its mortality. I incline to the belief that antiseptic surgery may modify many old notions as to the treatment of foot-dislocations, in the direction of conservatism. In the absence of precedent, the surgeon is at liberty to apply general principles, and to follow his own judgment. Three courses therefore are open to choice, in irreducible dislocations of these bones: (1) To make a section of the ligaments with the tenotome, and then