DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 669 knee serving also as a fulcrum on which to pry the shaft of the humerus, while the arm is at a right angle with the body, the forearm also being flexed to allow rotation to be made. For great force, Jarvis’s adjuster is far more efficient and safe than the pulleys, as it enables the surgeon to use manipu- lation in connection with extension. Its use is to be reserved for ancient dislocations. Sixth Method. (.Manipulation.)—By manipulation is meant a combination of the various passive movements, such as flexion and extension, adduction and abduction, circumduction and rotation, by which dislocations of the shoulder can be reduced without the employment of great traction. Manipulation methods in the case of this joint do not afford such striking advantages as in some other parts of the body, notably the hip, but efforts have been made to classify and perfect these methods in reference to the various forms of the injury, and they deserve description. At present they are much in need of further trial, the evidence of their efficacy being solely based upon the small number of cases reported by the advocates of these methods, Prof. Henry H. Smith, of Philadelphia, and Prof. J. W. Hamilton, of Columbus. Prof. Hamilton1 believes that the ligaments are less important than the muscles in opposing reduction, basing his theories of manipulation upon the idea of re- laxing muscular resistance; but it is now known that dislocated joints are resisted in their return far more by the untorn parts of their capsules than by any other opposing element. In order to secure the least possible muscular resistance, this surgeon directs that the arm be slightly abducted and rotated inward, with the elbow bent at a right angle. Obviously, this position puts to some tension the pectoralis, latissimus, triceps, and teres major, but it is claimed that the last named has little in- fluence, while the other three are relaxed to some extent by the inward rota- tion. The pectoralis and latissimus not being attached to the scapula, but to points much further away from the joint, are more easily overcome than the shorter scapulo-humeral muscles. The following is Prof. Hamilton’s plan of manipulation:—• Carry the injured arm from the side, keeping it horizontal, till, with the axis of the body projected upward, it makes an angle of forty-five degrees. At this stage, flex the forearm to a right angle with the arm. In a state of medium rotation the forearm will, at this stage, be in a direction perpendicular to the table. Keeping the forearm in this state of flexion, and for the present the arm in this state of rotation, let the member be grasped by an assistant, say, grasping the lower end of the humerus with the right and the wrist with the left hand.. If the pectoralis and latissimus muscles are found tense, wait until they become relaxed. Now let the surgeon take his position at the head of the table, between the patient’s arm and head. He will be able to place the tips of two thumbs on the tip of the acromion, and the tips of all the fingers on the displaced head of the humerus. Everything being thus made ready, direct the assistant to pull steadily but slightly with the right hand; at the same time, the sur- geon presses in opposite directions upon the tip of the acromion and the head of the humerus, or, in other words, presses them gently towards each other. With the most insignificant expenditure of force, the bone will probably fall almost instantly into position. If it does not, rotate the arm, so that the forearm will be carried from a perpendicular, inward, to an angle of forty-five degrees, and repeat the movement; the rotation inward may be even more increased, or, this failing, outward rotation may be tried. Fourteen successful cases are reported as treated by this surgeon in the manner above described. Ohio Medical Recorder, April, 1877.