DELIGATION OP ARTERIES. 285 ing triangular depressions, as shown in the drawing. The two parts of the instrument being placed in relation with each other, the screw is projected, and two or three turns effectually lock the parts together. After the point of the needle has been passed under the artery, and while it is held by the hook, two or three reversed turns of the screw disengage the curved extremity containing the ligature, with which it is then drawn through. For ligatures, carbolized catgut, prepared by Mr. Lister’s improved method, is preferable to every other kind of thread. When from want of suitable animal ligatures it is necessary to use silk ones, they should be carbolized by soaking them for half an hour in a mixture of melted wax and carbolic acid. The patient must be placed upon a firm bed or upon a table, and the sur- geon takes a position usually on the outer side of the limb or part to be operated on; one assistant administers the anaesthetic, a second assistant takes a position where he can compress the artery on the proximal side, if by any accident it should be wounded, or if the ligature should cut through its tunic; a third uses the sponges, and a fourth manages the retractors. It is important to guard against wounding the superficial veins; wherefore their position should be defined before commencing the operation, which can readily be done by applying pressure on the cardiac side of the point at which the incision is to be made. General Rules for Exposing and Ligating the Principal Arteries in their Continuity.—I. The operator must, before commencing the opera- tion, call to mind the exact anatomical relations of the parts involved in the operation. II. The direction and length of the cutaneous incision is then to be deter- mined. It is expedient to mark this out upon the skin with ink or chalk. III. The body is brought into the position most advantageous for the ope- ration, and into the best light. IV. The cutaneous incision is made by keeping the skin upon a stretch with the fingers of the left hand, while the scalpel cuts through the whole thickness of the skin from one end of the incision to the other; or, if the artery lie immediately under the skin, by pinching up a transverse fold thereof with the fingers, and cutting it through with one stroke of the knife, either from without inward, or by transfixion from within outward. V. Pinch up the fascia carefully with the forceps, nick it with the scalpel applied horizontally, and incise it freely on a grooved director introduced beneath. VI. After the edge of the muscle is laid bare, which is the anatomical guide to the artery, very little use should be made of the knife. With his fingers, or the handle of the scalpel, the surgeon can readily separate the connective tissue so as to fully expose the sheath of the artery ; and by so doing he will be much less troubled with oozing of blood or hemorrhage from small vessels, and be enabled to see the principal artery much more distinctly, than if he should use the knife in the deep parts of the wound. (Mott.) VII. As soon as the sheath of the artery is exposed, the operator seizes it with his forceps and raises it into a small cone. ILe lowers the handle of his Fig. 465. Improved American aneurism needle..