645 DISLOCATIONS. ot time, in consequence of the synovial membrane and secretions preventing the intrusion of new tissue into the cavity. The pressure of the head of the bone at a new point causes fibrous effu- sion to take place around it, thus limiting and confining it in its movements, and so an imperfect articular cavity is produced in its new locality. Some- times this is lubricated by a fluid resembling synovia, and answers a very useful purpose as a substitute for the original joint. In old dislocations, adjacent organs often become modified in length and position to accommodate themselves to the new conditions. Important ves- sels may become so entangled in adhesions about a dislocated bone as to be torn by any efforts at replacement. Prognosis.—If a dislocation be reduced, there is usually almost complete restoration of the original usefulness of the joint. Yet several months or even years may elapse before the whole effects of the injury pass away, and in many cases absolute restoration is not secured. Occasionally, the inflam- mation resulting from the accident causes adhesions of such extent between the opposing surfaces that complete anchylosis is the result. When a dislocation remains unreduced, of course the imperfection of the limb is far greater, although sometimes considerable mobility may remain. Compound dislocations involve great risk of suppuration and caries, often raising serious question as to whether amputation would not be more ad- visable than to run the dangers of a suppurative synovitis. Treatment of Dislocations.—The indications to be met in the treatment of dislocations, are (1) the reduction of the dislocation, (2) the prevention of inflammation, and (3) the restoration of usefulness to the joint. Reduction—the chief indication—should in all cases be accomplished as early as circumstances will permit. The changes induced by inflammation, and by the welding together of the soft parts in their new relations, combine to increase the difficulty of reduction in proportion to the amount of delay in attempting it. If, therefore, there should be any doubt about the diagnosis after an ordinary examination, anaesthetics should be promptly and unhesi- tatingly employed to facilitate the investigation. The same agents assist greatly in reduction by causing muscular relaxation. The older surgeons, on the supposition that the chief obstacle to reduction lay in the tension of the muscles, freely resorted to venesection, nauseants, and hot baths, as adjuvants to reduction. The progress of investigation has shown, however, that muscular resistance is only a small part of the force to be overcome. The chief obstacle to replacement is found to be the un- torn portion of the capsular ligament, and we can readily see that nauseants and depressants can have no influence upon this kind of tissue. Still, though venesection and tartar emetic have become completely obso- lete as aids in reduction, it is true that the muscles have some influence. To disarm their resistance, no agents are as effectual as chloroform and ether, as they not only produce relaxation, but also withhold the patient’s mind and will from interfering with necessary manipulations. The abolition of pain also renders the surgeon’s task more easy and more certain of perfect execur tion, even where there is no obscurity in diagnosis to require the anaesthetic. The surgeon’s hand is the principal means of force employed in reducing dislocations. Reductions made without the employment of mechanical appa- ratus are termed reductions by manipulation. When greater force is needed than can in this way be obtained, the cooperating hands of assistants frequently will give the requisite power. When, for any reasons, these are insufficient or inconvenient, mechanical contrivances are resorted to. The force employed