122 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. the great freedom of communication which exists among the terminal branches of the arteries in the hand through the medium of large inosculations. Some of the conditions most essential to success with compression, are quite want- ing in the hand and wrist. Moreover, it is the treatment by compression that has furnished those instances, by no means rare, in which the patient has become pale and weak, or exhausted, from frequently recurring hemorrhages from wounds of the palm, and in which the wounded part itself has become infiltrated and boggy, and too much swollen and discolored to permit the injured artery to be laid bare and securely tied in the wound, without a great deal of difficulty. Wounds of the palmar arch or of its branches form no exception to the general law that wounded arteries must be secured by ligatures applied on each side of the lesion, and that in case the artery is not severed by the acci- dent, it must be divided by the surgeon midway between the two ligatures, so that retraction of the ends may take place. In all cases of surgical hemor- rhage from wounds of the palm, the wound itself must be explored at the outset, and the source of the bleeding at once ascertained. While doing this it must be considered that between the palmar arches and the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries, a free intercommunication of branches exists, which branches are singularly uniform in their size; and that, in consequence, the distal part of the injured vessel may be almost as much inclined to bleed as the proximal. When the opening in the skin or the aponeurosis is not large enough to allow free access to the bleeding orifice, it must be enlarged to the required extent. In making incisions for this purpose, all thrusts with the bistoury must be avoided. The surgeon must understand and call to mind the arrangement and distribution of the vessels, and with such a knowledge he may proceed with entire confidence to lay bare the deep part of the hand. The skin must first be divided, and next the superficial fascia, when the palmar aponeurosis will be brought into view, and can readily be recog- nized by its white, tendinous appearance. The important vessels all lie beneath this structure. To open this dense membrane with safety, a slight perforation should be made through its substance, and a grooved director introduced, by means of which this aponeurosis can be raised up from the bloodvessels and nerves underneath, and its division successfully accomplished, thus giving an exposure of the parts sufficiently large for bringing into view and for successfully tying any vessel that may be wounded therein, according to the precept stated above. Dr. Ogston, in a difficult case, where the deep palmar arch was punctured by a knife-blade, succeeded in exposing the aperture in the artery to view by detaching the origin of the abductor indicis from the metacarpal bone of the index finger—that is, from the outer side of that bone. Then the artery was readily tied above and below the lesion. The patient made a good recovery.1 Esmarch’s apparatus for elastic com- pression was applied to the limb in this case, so that the operation was com- pleted without loss of blood; and, in similar cases, it is generally advisable to prevent hemorrhage by the same method. After ligating the palmar arch or its branches, and especially when the tissues are infiltrated and boggy or unsound, the force of the circulation in the hand should be lessened by keeping it in an elevated position, and by applying pressure to the radial and ulnar arteries by means of oblong com- presses (Fig. 347, p. 71) placed on the forearm, and secured by a roller, be- ginning at the hand, and extending up to the elbow. How should the neglected cases of wounds involving the palmar arch— those in which anaemic exhaustion from frequently recurring hemorrhages 1 British Medical Journal, January 24, 1876, p. 782.