340 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. fibrino-plastic material, and then become saturated with a fibrinogen-holding lymph. This morbid process he holds may occur in tissues the most diverse in character, as in cheesy glands, infarcts of the spleen or kidneys, tumors, the inflammatory material around parasites, tubercle, etc. Macroscopically, these coagulated spots have a peculiar, stiff appearance, and, microscopically, they are recognized by the fact that the cell nuclei have disappeared, and can- not be made to appear by reagents or by the coloring material used in the microscopical technique. Weigert states further that to this process belongs a hitherto undescribed tissue-necrosis, viz., the so-called atheromatous degeneration of the aorta and the syphilitic disease of the arteries. There are found in the walls of the vessels many spots with no nuclei, often too small to allow any one to reach a positive conclusion in regard to them. Often, however, these spots are larger and present a fibrinous appearance. These are found not only in the newly formed tissue, but elsewhere, and Weigert attributes to them the chief cause of the inflammatory and hyperplastic tissue-changes which are peculiar to the atheromatous and sclerotic processes; he also declares that the tissues in these spots tend to calcareous degeneration. Dr. Ward well arrives at the following conclusions:— (1) That in the arteries of middle-aged or old persons, there are often found spots of diseased tissue which present all the appearances of having under- gone a “ coagulation necrosis.” (2) That in these spots there is a tendency to the deposition of lime salts. (3) That in primary calcification the media is always first affected, the intima and adventitia only secondarily and by contiguity. (4) That this change is independent of a preceding inflammation. (5) That on the contrary these calcified spots act as foreign bodies, setting up a secondary inflammation in their vicinity, and leading sometimes to thick- ening of the intima. (6) That one of the changes in atheroma of the arteries is coagulation necrosis, that lime salts are often deposited in such necrotic spots, that the position of such spots is in the intima instead of the media, viz., in the newly formed inflammatory tissue. Fig. 519. Arteritis with coagulation necrosis. Section from human artery treated with acetic acid, showing at d d, spots of coagulation necrosis which contained calcareous salts before being treated with the acid ; A, intima; b, media; c, adventitia. (Drawn from specimen prepared by Dr. W. L Wardwell. Magnified about 40 diameters.) (7) That primary calcification attacks the small arteries rather than the larger, and especially those portions of the arteries which are subjected to the greatest strain. These conditions are shown in Figs. 519, 520.