715 BONE-SETTING AND NATURAL BONE-SETTERS. (3) Nerve twigs running between movable parts may become adherent from plastic effusion, so as to be dragged upon every time movements take place. (4) In a few cases, slight partial adhesions of synovial surfaces occur, which, being ruptured, liberate the joint from its bonds. A vigorous twist, with full flexion and extension, stretches contracting parts, and often ruptures abnormal adhesions, thus curing the patient; and it makes no difference whether this is done by the manipulations of a bone- setter, or by an accidental fall or wrench. For instance, a gentleman in Chicago, who had his knee badly stiffened, as the sequel of an accident, was limping along in unusual haste one day, when he fell and doubled his knee forcibly under him. The result was an immediate and complete cure of his lameness. In case of mere contraction of muscles and ligaments, the cure can usually be obtained by gradual increase of movement; but if nerve-twigs are ad- herent, or if the patient is hysterical or very nervous, the pain attending each effort frightens the sufferer, and the plan of gradual extension cannot be carried out. These are cases for the bright triumphs of the bone-setter, who gets hold simultaneously of the imagination and of the limb, and hero- ically ruptures the adhesions. Cases of synovitis are injured by such treatment, and the more ignorant of the bone-setters often do irreparable mischief by wrenching joints which are thus affected, but those who have more tact learn from experience, or from the traditions of their elders, to recognize and avoid cases attended by inflam- mation. Some, however, use poultices, etc., and, after the inflammation has subsided, proceed to their manipulations. The bone-setter seeks, or pretends to seek, for some spot about each stiffened joint, which is painful when motion is attempted, and which is also tender upon pressure. This is the point of adhesion to be ruptured. Dr. Hood lays much stress upon the importance of pressing the thumb firmly upon such spots while making the motions necessary to rupture the adhesions, but as far as I can judge of his reasons, the thumb-pressure seems to me unnecessary. However this may be, these points are the points of pain and of resistance on attempting motion, and consequently the points where rupture or stretching must be effected. Their position will assist the operator in deciding what direction to give to his forced movements. In general terms, therefore, the forced motions are to be those which are most painful, and which are opposed by the greatest resistance. The points of thumb-pressure are said to be, in the majority of cases, on the back or front of tbe carpus, if the wrist is affected; on the tendon of the biceps, at the bend of the elbow, if that joint is stiffened; on or near the point of the coracoid process, in the case of the shoulder; near the ligamentum patellae, in that of the knee; and about the malleoli, in that of the ankle. The manipulations of Hutton, an English bone-setter, were, according to his pupil Dr. Hood, as follows: If an interphalangeal articulation were stiffened, the bone-setter first got a firm grip upon the patient’s proximal phalanx by passing the left index-finger transversely around or across its palmar surface, and pressing the thumb firmly on the dorsal aspect. He then seized the distal phalanx in the same way, with the right-hand, and forcibly flexed tbe joint as far as possible. Next he brought the distal phalanx to a semi-flexed position, and then by lateral rocking, that is, by abduction and adduction, he endeavored *to stretch the lateral ligaments. The operation was finished by making complete extension. Motion was then found to be