INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 240 A soldier, aged 23, was wounded in the right side of the neck, at Antietam, Sep- tember 17, 1862, by a buckshot which hit the common carotid artery. A diffused trau- matic aneurism ensued. On the 30th, the tumefaction, already enormous, was rapidly increasing; it crowded the trachea considerably to the left side. The covering of the aneurism was tense, and pulsation with a hard thrill was perceived on palpation. A plug of lint held firmly by clotted blood filled up the wound. Dr. R. F. Weir, U. S. Army, having carefully assigned their duties to his assistants, withdrew the plug, and quickly enlarged the wound with probe-pointed instruments, sufficiently to admit two of his fingers to the bottom of the cavity. He “ was so fortunate as to reach and com- press the opening in the artery with very little difficulty, and thus effectually control the hemorrhage. Throughout the whole of the operation it was noticed with what ease the bleeding from the artery was checked—so little pressure was required. The clots were turned out, and the incision prolonged downward to the clavicle, and upward about one inch—the length of the entire incision being three and one-fourth to four inches.” Ligatures were passed around the artery with Mott’s aneurism needle (Fig. 437), below and above the aperture, “which the end of the fore-finger neatly Fig. 437. Mott’s aneurism needle. closed.” Less than eight ounces of blood were lost during the operation. Death, how- ever, ensued, from a gunshot lesion of the spinal cord, and from cerebral softening. Nevertheless, the case .very clearly shows the entire feasibility of this operation for diffused traumatic aneurisms at the root of the neck.1 The wound after the “ old operation” for aneurism cannot be healed like an ordinary incised wound, but must he left to granulate; and great attention must he paid to the dressing. Having cut off the ends of the carbolized cat- gut ligatures close to the knots, and carefully washed out the cavity with a solution of potassium permanganate or of boracic acid, and afterward well sprayed it with carbolic acid, a drainage-tube should be introduced ; and over all should be placed some carbolized lint or very soft oakum. As soon as suppuration begins, the wound must be dressed antiseptically every night and morning. The constitutional state of,the patient must be provided for by administering nutrients, stimulants, and tonics. II. Circumscribed Traumatic Aneurism.—This variety of aneurism does not, as a rule, present itself until some time after the injury that causes it occurs. In it, the blood that escapes from the canal of the injured artery is inclosed by a distinctly formed sac, which, in one large class of instances, consists of the external coat together with the sheath of the injured artery, and, in another large class, of laminae of connective tissue condensed by the expansion-pressure, and by the products of inflammatory irritation. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 438) illustrates the first-mentioned class;— It represents a preparation belonging to our Army Medical Museum,2 of a circum- scribed aneurism of the superior mesenteric artery, in which the sac consists of the outer tunic and the sheath. The inner and middle coats of the artery have burst; and, 1 Med. and Surg. History, etc., First Surg. Vol., pp. 456, 457. * Specimen 503, Sect. II.