242 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. responding with the contractions of the left ventricle of the heart.” The treatment by compression was tried in vain. By August 16, the tumor had become much larger, and now caused great pain. It was decided to ligature the subclavian artery; but, early the next morning the aneurism broke, and discharged from thirty to forty ounces ot blood. The operation was performed, but death occurred six hours afterward, in con- sequence of the previous loss of blood.1 In this case the external wound healed, but the injured tunics of the axillary artery, which doubtless were texturally disorganized by the graze or bruise caused by the impact of the missile, slowly gave way, and, as they yielded, the extravasation of blood was restrained by laminae of connective tissue thickened by the products of inflammatory irritation, which ultimately formed the aneurismal sac. Besides these, which are the common forms of circumscribed traumatic aneurism, two others are occasionally met with. One of them is hernial aneurism, an excellent example of which is reported in the American Jour- nal of the Medical Sciences.2 In this case a small slice had been accidentally cut off from the sheath and outer tunic of the brachial artery, about two and one-half inches above the place of its divi- sion in an amputation of the arm. Secondary hemorrhage of an alarming character occurred from the stump, a consultation was held, aneurism of the 'brachial artery was diagnosed, and reamputation was recommended and performed. Examination of the reamputated portion showed a hernial aneurism of the brachial artery about two and a half inches above the ligature, where a small piece of the external coat had been shaved off by the amputating knife. Through this opening or ring, one-eighth of an inch in diameter, the inner and middle coats of the artery protruded, forming an aneurismal tumor, at least half an inch in diameter, and reminding one of the protru- sion of a femoral hernia through its ring. The secondary bleeding had issued from a rent in the walls of this aneurism. Afterward the case did well. In the second of these two rare forms of circumscribed traumatic aneu- rism, all the arterial tunics have been perforated, hut the sac consists only of the external tunic and the sheath. It usually arises from a small puncture of a large artery, such as the axillary or the femoral. At first, the bleeding is profuse, but, being stopped by local compression, the external wound and the wound of the artery both heal up. Afterward the arterial cicatrix gra- dually yields, forming, at the end of weeks and months, a tumor which pulsates excentrically, with distinct bruit and thrill, and presents all the symptoms that characterize an aneurism from disease. The sac, too, is quite distinct, being formed by dilatation of the cicatrix in the sheath and external coat of the artery, without any blood being effused into the surrounding tissues. (Erichsen.) Symptoms.—The circumscribed variety of traumatic aneurism is usually of less magnitude than the diffused, while it is much more tense and sharply defined. It pulsates excentrically, and exhibits the aneurismal bruit and thrill. It grows soft on compressing the parent trunk, and its pulsation, bruit, and thrill cease, to return again on discontinuing the pressure. Treatment.—At first compression should always be tried, and, should it fail, ligation must be resorted to. In treating circumscribed aneurisms, traumatic as well as spontaneous, ligatures have been applied according to the plans of Anel, Hunter, and Brasdor, as well as according to the method of Antyllus, which is the “old operation.” On July 14, 1863,1 ligatured the left subclavian artery, on Hunter’s plan, for circum- scribed traumatic aneurism, in a Confederate captain, aged 31, who, on June 21, had been shot through the left shoulder by a conoidal carbine-ball which severed the axil- lary artery. The bleeding ceased spontaneously, the wound healed kindly, and the 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 545. a No. for October, 1865, pp. 417, 418.