LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OE ARTERIES. 163 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, t. xix. p. 550. Paris, 1874. pression. The vessel lacerated was, in all probability, the posterior tibial .artery. The application of the ligature immediately suppressed all further pulsation in the tumor. On the sixth day the bulk of the tumor was already lessened by one-third. The woman perfectly recovered. Delpech, in 1815, acting on this precedent, ligated the femoral artery toward the upper part of the thigh, in the case of a postillion, aged 30, who had sustained a simple comminuted fracture of both bones of the leg near the centre, from the pass- age over it of the wheel of a loaded cart. The leg was discolored, and exces- sively distended from tumefaction. The tumefaction itself pulsated distinctly, especially at the calf; the pulsations were synchronous with those of the heart, and were controlled by pressure on the femoral artery. The patient made a good recovery. Dupuytren, in 1818, in a case of compound fracture, employed the same method that had been successfully employed in these two eases of simple fracture of the leg. An officer was shot through the upper part of his right leg hy a pistol-ball. It passed from before backward and inward, traversing the interosseous space, and injuring both bones. Severe hemorrhage from both apertures immediately ensued; it was arrested by compresses. The leg swelled and became acutely painful; and afterward alarmingly benumbed. There was no external hemorrhage until the thirteenth •day ; but, meanwhile, blood was extravasated so as to form a diffuse aneurism which increased day by day in size, and exhibited pulsations which were synchronous with those of the heart, and immediately ceased on compressing the femoral artery. The hemorrhage which occurred on the thirteenth day was repeated at intervals, and greatly reduced the patient. At this time Dupuytren was called in, and found that the foot and leg were tumid, purple, cold, arid benumbed; that there was a tense tumor at the upper part of the leg, which expanded and contracted with each beat of the heart; that this swelling was surmounted hy two apertures, one in front, the other behind, made by the entrance and exit of the ball; and that these apertures had, for the last few hours, been closed by plugs of coagulated blood, which each pul- sation threatened to dislodge. Fortified by his previous success, he tied the femoral artery at the middle of the thigh. Before tightening the ligature, he ascertained that pressure on the exposed artery arrested pulsation in the tumor. In three months the patient perfectly recovered.1 . Yerneuil, in 1859, reported a case of diffuse aneurism from simple fracture of the leg, in which a new and much simpler plan of treatment was equally successful. The patient, being on horseback, struck his leg against a carriage- shaft, and broke it, but the fracture was masked during fifteen days by the swelling. The swollen region, however, was the seat of pulsations, syn- chronous with those of the femoral artery, and disappearing on compressing that vessel; the presence of a murmur or bruit was always doubtful. The arteria dorsalis pedis remained unaffected. Compression (intermittent) of the femoral artery upon the pubis was made by the patient himself; afterward, bags of shot were applied over the course of the femoral artery, and the cure became complete. Thus Verneuil avoided both amputation and ligation with perfect success. Azam has published a case of diffuse aneurism, with pulsa- tion and murmur, that was caused by simple fracture of the leg at its inferior part, in which a cure was obtained by compressing the femoral artery at the pubis. The patient himself, hy means of a watch-glass, compressed the artery from six to eight hours daily. Two months after the accident, the callus was solid and the cure complete.2 Valette (de Lyon) has reported two analo- gous cases in which a cure was also obtained by compressing the femoral 1 Leqons Orales, t. ii. pp. 521 el seq. Paris, 1839.