INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 300 common sheath, obliquely inward, where it should be tied. Pains should be taken to avoid injuring the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and its communicating branches. The needle should be passed from without inward. Deligation of both inferior thyroid arteries has been performed a number of times for vascular enlargements of the thyroid gland, but the results have not been of such a character as to warrant a repetition. However, for hemorrhages from wounds of the neck, as in Maisonneuve’s case mentioned above, in which the vertebral was also tied, the operation must he resorted to whenever it appears expedient. Ligation of the Internal Mammary Artery.—The internal mammary artery is the first branch which issues from the lower side of the subclavian artery. It runs directly downward behind the clavicle, on the posterior sur- face of the costal cartilages, and near the edge of the sternum, until it reaches the sixth intercostal space; there it divides into the musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. It is accompanied by two veins. The in- ternal mammary artery is crossed in the first part of its course by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and by the phrenic nerve; in the chest, it lies at first on the costal cartilages and intercostal muscles, and is covered by the pleura behind, hut lower it is covered also by the triangularis sterni muscle. Ligation of the external mammary is esteemed easy of performance in the first three intercostal spaces, difficult in the fourth, very difficult in the fifth, and almost impossible in the sixth. Goyrand’s Operation.—An incision two inches in length is to be made near the edge of the sternum obliquely from above downward and from without inward, forming with the axis of the body an angle of forty-five degrees. The middle part of this incision should be three or four lines distant from the margin of the sternum, and in the centre of the sternal extremity of the intercostal space. Dividing successively the skin, the cellulo-adipose subcu- taneous tissue, and the great pectoral muscle, the intercostal space is exposed. An incision is then to he made in the same direction and over the entire width of the space of the aponeurotic layer which continues the external intercostal muscle and the superficial fasciculi of the internal intercostal. With a grooved director the fibres of the latter muscle are to be separated and torn through, and the artery and its two vense comites are then laid hare at three lines from the edge of the sternum, separating those fibres from the pleura. Then nothing is easier than to isolate the artery, and pass the needle beneath it. Goyrand’s operation is recommended by Guthrie, and I have no doubt that it constitutes the best method of ligating the internal mammary artery in its continuity. When, however, traumatic hemorrhage occurs from this artery, it should always he secured at the place of injury by a distal ligature as well as by a proximal ligature; and when the arterial lesion is situated in the fourth, fifth, or sixth intercostal spaces, it will often he advisable to cut out one of the costal cartilages with bone-forceps, either wholly or in part, in order to obtain room for passing a distal and proximal ligature. During the late civil war, the internal mammary artery was tied for secondary hemorrhage by Judson and by Bontecou, but in neither instance was the operation successful. Ligation of the Subclavian Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—On the right side, the subclavian artery issues from the innominate artery; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. The right is, therefore, shorter than the left,