689 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. extension, but the popliteal space is down upon the table, the limb is movable in all directions, and the toes turn outward in a natural manner. Grasping the foot, it is found that rotation is possible. (2) Rotation Method.—The method above described is preferable to the other form of manipulation, termed by Bigelow “ rotation,” because it effects reduction with the least possible injury to the tissues about the joint. Rota- tion is more violent, but more effective. The modus operandi is as follows: laying one hand upon the knee, to guide its motions, the surgeon grasps the ankle with the other, and flexes the leg upon the thigh, and the thigh upon the abdomen, as far as possible. It is well to have the pelvis steadied by the hands of one or more assistants grasp- ing the alse of the ilia. With the limb in this position, let it now be inverted, that is, rotated in- ward. This causes the head of the bone to ride well away from the back of the ilium, so that it is unlocked from behind the acetabulum. Instead of traction f'as in the last method, rotation is now made by sweeping the knee, still kept well down upon the body, transversely outward to an angle of 45° or more. It should be carried outward in this manner to a point where considerable elastic resistance is felt to its further progress. The y liga- ment, by this process, is converted into a fulcrum, to make the head of the femur pass inward toward the acetabulum. The last step of the manipula- tion consists in a quick movement by which the leg is straightened once more in a line with the body. This is done by holding the limb well ab- ducted, carrying the foot and knee downward to full extension, and slightly rotating outward to cause the head of the bone to be thrown inward to its socket. The limb will be seen to be reduced. It is important that the downward sweep at the close of the manipulation should be forcibly and somewhat suddenly made, the knee being held strongly out by one hand, while the hand upon the ankle gives the rotary motion, the whole being simultaneous. There should be no pause between the outward and the downward sweeps, which for clearness we have described as separate steps. The succession is instantaneous, so that the two steps consist in reality of but one bold movement, beginning with the outward sweep, and passing so suddenly into the downward, that the knee is not observed at any instant to be at a standstill, or “ dead point” of motion. Firm and quick handling is essential to the whole manipulation. Too slow or too yielding a touch will allow the head of the bone, at some stage of the manipulation where it is poised ready to re-enter its socket, to slip backward, instead of forward into place. To assist the memory, the description of the manipulation may be condensed into the following terse directions : Lift up; bend out; roll out. This is the process of hip-reduction once known as “Reid’s method.” It is very powerful, and has reduced many obstinate dislocations, and some of long standing. According to Prof. Bigelow, the manipulation will be more certainly suc- cessful, if, at the moment when the downward sweep is made, the limb is also jerked sharply upward toward the ceiling. The traction principle would thus be added to that of the rotation method. Upon anatomical grounds the recommendation would seem a good one, but at present it lacks the confirma- tion of other surgeons’ experience. The energy of the rotation method is very great, and it is usually advisa- ble to first attempt reduction by the milder traction method, reserving the other for obstinate cases. Some idea of its power may be gained from the fact that it has been known to throw the head of the bone beyond its socket, entirely across and through the opposite side of the capsular ligament, so as vol. hi.—44