SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 370 Hemorrhage is to be controlled by pressure, rapid use of forceps, or pre- liminary ligature. Angeioma of the face is best relieved by the clean cut of the knife, and the cicatrix is less deforming than that produced by other modes of treat- ment. I recently removed a growth of this kind from the forehead of a young woman. The incision was made down to the hone, and the tissue removed was more than one inch long by three-quarters of an inch in width. The hemorrhage was insignificant, and the edges united by first intention with an imperceptible cicatrix. Of course the operation is not justifiable if telangiectasis involves more surface than can be covered by stretching or eliding the sound integument. When the skin is not deeply involved in the disease, a crucial incision may be made, and the skin dissected off, and replaced after the tumor has been ligatured and removed. In cavernous tumors of large size the method of Eriehsen is advisable. A long straight or slightly curved needle, armed with a double thread, one-half of which is stained black, is passed through the tumor at its base, and deeply from side to side. This process is repeated at intervals of three-quarters of an inch, until the entire angeioma is transfixed with threads which are parallel with each other. The loops are then divided—the black on one side and the white on the other— and tied tightly until the strangulation is complete. It is advised to blacken one-half of the thread, so that in tying the knots a mistake may not be made. The black and white threads are tied separately. Fig. 532. Erichsen’s method of introducing the double ligature for the cure of vascular tumors. For my own part, I prefer complete and radical excision m all angeiomata of the face and exposed portions of the body, the removal of which would not cause too great or perceptible deformity. The wound should be carefully adjusted with sutures. In cavernous tumors of large size, the method of Eriehsen is preferable. If these operations are not admissible, then direct pressure or deligation of the main trunk may be resorted to.1 Venous Varix, Varix, or Varicose Vein.—This variety of “vascular tumor” consists of a dilatation and elongation of the deep or subcutaneous veins. This condition may exist in any portion of the body, even in the bones (Cornil and Ranvier). It may involve a small portion of one vein, superficial or deep, or, as is most usual, a chain of veins. It is most frequently observed in 1 For further remarks on the treatment of angeiomata, see the section on Cirsoid Arterial Tumor and the observations following the table of cases there given.