PUNCTURED WOUNDS OP ARTERIES. 127 1 Ibid., p. 329. bleeding aperture in their walls. In the following instance the gluteal artery was ligated in the wound with success:— Colonel A. J. Warner received, September 17, 1862, a shot-wound of the right buttock; the missile penetrated deeply and lodged. On February 6, 1863, an ope- ration for its extraction was successfully performed. During the manipulations, how- ever, the gluteal artery was punctured ; the hemorrhage immediately became very severe and apparently uncontrollable. “ Thrusting my finger to the bottom of the wound,” says Dr. J. H. Brinton, “ I could readily feel the impulse of the jets of blood. 1 then requested an assistant to plug the wound with the end of a dry towel. This was done ; at the expiration of a few seconds I quickly removed the plug, and while so doing was so fortunate as to see the gaping orifice of the main trunk of the gluteal artery, as that vessel emerged through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. I immediately compressed the trunk with the end of my index finger against the upper bony rim of the notch, thus arresting the hemorrhage instantly and completely. The seizure of the vessel with an artery-forceps and its ligation was then an easy matter. No further hemorrhage, to any extent, occurred ; the ligatures separated in due time, and the patient made a happy recovery.”1 But in the cases where ligation of these arteries cannot he performed, well- adjusted compression must be faithfully applied to the trunk of the common iliac artery, and to the wounded vessel itself; and of these two modes of compression, the former is quite as important as the latter. Figs. 419 and 420 represent tourniquets for compressing the common iliac artery and the abdominal aorta. Internal Epigastric and Circumflex Iliac Arteries.—These vessels, also, are presented to view in Fig. 418, although it was specially designed for showing Fig. 419. Erichsen’s artery compressor. the arteries of the pelvis. The deep epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries may be opened by simple flesh-wounds of the abdomen, as well as by those which penetrate its cavity, and thus hemorrhages may arise which will prove