706 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. The diagnosis is made by an examination of the relative positions of the heads of the fibulae upon the two limbs. On the dislocated side, the bone is carried outward, and sometimes forward or backward from its usual situ- ation, and is very readily felt and seen to be out of place. Reduction is accomplished by making firm pressure of the thumbs upon the tumor caused by the displaced head. After reduction, a compress should be placed directly outside of the joint, and should be worn for several weeks in order to prevent redisplacement. Dislocations of the Ankle-joint. Some confusion in the terminology of ankle dislocations has resulted be- cause certain authors, such as Cooper, Malgaigne, and Hamilton, have de- scribed them as displacements of the lower end of the tibia, while others, such as Boyer, Ashhurst, and Bryant, have classed them as luxations of the foot from the tibia, preferring to regard the distal as that which is dis- placed upon the proximal bone, in accordance with the method of classi- fication pursued in other parts of the body. Analogy would, therefore, lead us to regard the astragalus and not the tibia as the dislocated bone, although, in the strictest sense, all dislocations are, of coarse, a mutual separation of parts. Some considerations, however, have caused a number of modern surgeons to take the opposite view. Thus, in walking, the foot becomes a fixed base of support, and a dislocation, if it takes place, may be considered as a displacement of the moving tibia, especially since the articu- lating surface of the latter is so much smaller than the tarsus. The mind more readily conceives of the smaller organ being displaced upon the larger, than of the larger being carried away from the smaller. This question of nomenclature has no bearing upon pathology or treatment, but it is impor- tant to use such language as may explain itself at each step, and leave no ambiguity. I prefer to regard the distal part as that which undergoes displacement. Dislocations, then, of the tarsus upon the leg may be in four directions, viz., forward, backward, inward, and outward. Each of these dislocations is accompanied, in most cases, by a fracture of the fibula, a short distance above the joint. Lateral Dislocations of the Tarsus.—The dislocations inward and out- ward are usually incomplete, and, in fact, are to be considered rather as rota- tions within the joint, than as displacements of the astragalus from the tibia. Causes.—This injury is frequently produced by falling so as to strike upon the foot, with the ankle turned over. The weight of the body, suddenly arrested, gives the joint a violent wrench, turning the foot over into the position of varus or valgus, so that its inner or outer border rests upon the ground. The fibula is broken as already mentioned. Symptoms.—Usually, fracture of the fibula accompanies the lateral as well as the other luxations. Sometimes also the internal malleolus is broken. The inner or outer surface of the astragalus lies upon the articular extre- mity of the tibia, in most cases, but sometimes there is a true lateral dis- placement, in which case there is not so much rotation or turning of the foot. Complete lateral displacements are generally compound, a form of in- jury attended with great fatality. Treatment.—In the slighter forms of lateral dislocation, the patient, or some bystander,not infrequently reduces the dislocation upon first observing it, sim- ply by drawing the foot around into its true position with the hand. When