713 BONE-SETTING AND NATURAL BONE-SETTERS. treatment is similar to that practised in dislocations of the fingers. Luxations of the small toes are readily reduced by extension and pressure on the heads of the bones. In the case of the great toe, there may arise difficulty similar to that seen in dislocations of the thumb, and reduction may be found wholly impossible, save by division of the lateral ligaments with the tenotome. Excision or amputation may be considered, if this is not thought advisable, and more particularly in cases of compound luxation, in which the ordinary principles governing joint injuries are applicable, as laid down in another section. “ Bone-Setting” and “ Natural Bone-Setters.” The title of natural bone-setters is claimed by a peculiar class of empirics, found both in America and abroad. In Spain they are termed Algehristas. In the United States, those who have claimed this power have been mostly members of one family, or have claimed to be such. They have mainly practised in the New-England States and in New York. Among the igno- rant classes, a belief prevails that certain persons are bom with a natural instinct, or knack, which enables them to diagnose and “ set” obscure or diffi- cult cases of dislocation which have proved too much for the skill of edu- cated surgeons. Sir James Paget, in an address to his class, thus refers to the “ bone-setters” met with in England:— “ Few of you are likely to practise without having a bone-setter for your enemy; and if he can cure a case which you have failed to cure, his fortune may be made and yours marred.”1 It would be unnecessary to spend time in describing the performances of these itinerants, were it not for the grain of scientific truth that, only half understood by themselves, and often wholly ignored by the profession, lies con- cealed under the curious mixture of ignorance and wilful misrepresentation in which their practice largely consists. The cases in which these persons succeed in making cures, are certain chronic forms of lameness, or other disability, following various acute dis- eases, or dislocations and sprains. These are the cases in which they confidently pronounce the limb “ out,” or “ out of joint,” though every man who understands anatomy can see at a glance that the bones are perfectly in place. In many cases, they actually wrench loose certain ligamentous adhesions presently to be mentioned, and in others they gradually loosen up, by exercise, parts stiffened by disuse, and thus set patients on the road to recovery, who had in vain followed the cautious advice of educated surgeons. Those bone-setters who lack tact and judgment, not unfrequently do serious and dangerous mischief by their man- ipulations, in cases of traumatic synovitis, but others are cautious, and reject cases in which inflammation is present, as unsuited to their art. Only a small part of their business consists in setting real dislocations; but their “natural gift” consists largely in declaring every injured limb to be “out of joint,” no matter what the lesion really is, and in proceeding to what they pretend, or perhaps believe, to be a “ setting.” Dr. Wharton P. Hood, who personally took a course of instruction under one of these bone-setters, gives a typical description to illustrate the cases benefited by his bone-setting preceptor, as follows:— 1 Wharton P. Hood, On Bone-Setting, etc., p. 3. London, 1871.