485 BRACHIAL ANEURISM. entirely inadmissible. If the disease be so situated as to throw the clavicle upward, and thus to cover the third part of the subclavian, the tract of vessel above the smaller pectoral is not likely to be unaflected. Hence it is better to aim at the artery higher up, and the operation for tying the last part of the subclavian leaves the surgeon free to go still higher, namely, to the second part, if it be necessary.1 Tor wound or rupture of the vessel, such an operation may perhaps be under- taken, though the old operation, as modified and practised by Mr. Syme, would in most cases be preferable (see p. 432). The operation may be per- formed in one of three methods: that of Chainberlaine, that of Roux, and that of Guthrie. (1) Chamberlaine’s operation may be thus described: An incision, begin- ning about two and a half inches from the inner end of the clavicle, is to run along its lower margin to the deltoid tubercle. The muscular fibres of the pectoralis major, and a few from the inner part of the deltoid, are thus exposed, and, just beneath the bone, the small triangular gap which here separates the two muscles; running into this interval the cephalic vein is seen, together with certain branches of the acromio-thoracic artery. The loose, but rather strong fascia which fills this gap may be pinched up with forceps on the inner side of the above named vein, and close to the edge of the pectoralis. A little notch having been made, without letting the forceps lose their grip, the sur- geon insinuates a director under the pectoralis, and quite close to the clavicle; upon this the muscle is divided for the requisite distance. Probably at this stage one or more arteries will require tying. The next step is the very deli- cate one of opening the costo-coracoid membrane without dividing the axil- lary vein; in some subjects this fascia may be torn with the finger, but in others it is more tough, and any great amount of force might rend the vessel; if it be necessary to use the knife, the safest course is to look for the cephalic vein, and to divide the membrane just in the angle between it and the inner •edge of the smaller pectoral. The artery may now be seen, but it lies deep, crossed at its upper part by the cephalic vein, and having the axillary vein on its inner, and the brachial nerves chiefly on its outer side; the needle must be passed from within outwards, and kept very close to the artery. (2) Roux is said2 to have tied this part of the axillary artery through the delto-pectoral interval, without division of muscle; the operation is feasible, and I have often for the sake of practice done it on the dead subject; but it would be dangerous, and is not to be recommended. (3) In these methods of operating, only a limited part of the vessel is ex- posed, and if, in a case of rupture or wound, it were desirable to see more of the artery, this could only be efi'ected by dividing the pectoralis minor, a procedure which, considering that the larger muscle would have been already in part cut through, would produce much mutilation. Hence it may in some cases be well to follow Mr. Guthrie’s plan. It is, however, one not devoid of danger, and it also inflicts considerable injury upon neighboring parts ; but Mr. Guth- rie (as witness his proposed method for tying the posterior tibial) appears to have had a strong partiality for making large wounds. He advises an in- cision from the edge of the axilla to just below the acromion, and division of the large pectoral in the same direction; this of course exposes all the parts in the axilla, and if, as he advises, the lesser pectoral be also severed, the vessel may be tied in any part of its course. Great caution to avoid the axillary vein would be required. All these operations must almost inevitably give rise to 1 I have tied the third part of the subclavian when the clavicle was raised as high as it well could he, with, it is true, certain difficulties which might have been avoided had I at that time possessed the needle depicted at p. 476. 2 Quarante Annees, etc., t. ii. p. 133.