SYPHILITIC ARTERITIS. 345 Date Organs affected by Lardace- i | Sex. < Occupa- infec- tion. Cause of death. syphilis, and nature of affection. degenera- 1 Kidneys. Arteries. Skin. Remarks. M. 40 Soldier Opium Puckered cicatrices in None. Large Extreme Large ir- poisoning. lower lobe of right (20 ox.); regular lung ; healed gum- greatly of aorta; ma in spleen, great congested large, pro- thigh ; enlargement and in- minent, duration ot glands gelatinous uncertain in left groin. patches. F. 35 Servant Renal Enlarged aud indu- Advanced Lardace- Patches of No scars Liver (unmar- dropsy. rated glandsin right of whole ous and endarteritis or nodes. shown. ried but groin; old disease gastro-in- fatty. deformans had had of pharynx with ric-; testinal in abdomi- child). atricial contraction, and vagi- nal aorta; large mass of gum- none of mata and cicatricial ous mem- thoracic. fibrous tissue in branes & liver. of kidn’ys M. 46 Plasterer Dilated Cicatrices in liver; ad- None. Slight Rupial heart; vanced affection of atheroma ulcers on dropsy. skin. of aorta. legs; con- dition of scrotum resem- bling ele- phanti- F. 23 Single, 3 to 4 Asphyxia Larynx, extensive in- None. Congest- General Nii. Lived but had years Irom re- filtration of tissues, ed. atheroma with a one child moval of abscess over thyroid of aorta. man who tracheot- cartilage. had a skin omy tube. eruption, and the child had an erup- tion when a few F. 46 Widow Haemopty- Cicatrices and gumma None. Slightly Atheroma Nil. weeks old sis in rapid in liver ; lungs? granular. of aorta. phthisis. F. 47 Servant Atrophy of right lobe Of kid- Lardace- of liver from peri- neys, ous de- hepatitis and gum- spleen, genera- matous infiltration. and in- testines. tion. F. 25 Unmar- Fracture of Syphilitic ulcers of legs ; cicatrices in None. Atheroma. Nil. ried, but cervical cohabit- spine. lungs; calcified no- ing, and had one dules ; probably gummata in liver. child M. 30 Sailor Cystitis and Cicatrices in liver. None. pyelo- nephritis from stric- ture of • urethra. M. 34 Plate Thrombosis Extreme disease of None. Marked atheroma. Nil. Case 2 of disease of layer of cerebral cerebral arteries ; arteries. dura mater; larynx. cerebral artery ; vessels, ter, and larynx shown. F. 50 (single) Hemiplegia Extensive but irregu- None. 1 Eight, Aorta some- Large, ir- due to soft- lar thickening of with mul- what ather- regular, ening of cerebral arteries ; tiple sup- omatous, much pig- brain from puckered cicatrices purative not advanc- mented thrombosis; in lower lobe of nephritis ed ; carotids scars on cystitis, right lung only, (surgical also ather- left thigh pyelo- without pleural ad- kidney); omatous. and leg as nephritis, hesions. left, nor- of old and perito- mal, no syphilitic nitis. disease either acute or chronic; not larda- ceous. It will be observed that of the total of 22 cases, the condition of the vas- cular system is noted in all but 6. In one case there was no lesion of the arteries. In the remaining 15 cases the arteries were more or less seriously