219 WOUNDS OP VEINS. of air into a wounded vein, is sometimes heard during operations in the dangerous region. It may occur on opening the deep fascia of the axilla when made tense by extending the arm, or that of the neck when made tense by extending the head, or that of any space similarly protected from atmo- spheric pressure. Of course there are no constitutional symptoms in such a case. The following is a good example:— In 1830, Professor A. H. Stevens, at the New York Hospital, while extirpating a large flattened tumor under the left sterno-mastoid muscle, having detached it com- pletely, except at its postero-inner edge, drew the tumor outward and forward, and divided, near its junction with the internal jugular, a vein of considerable size. Half an ounce of venous blood escaped; in an instant afterward a peculiar sound, like that caused by drawing into a syringe the last portion of water from a basin, was heard. “ It was a moment of intense anxiety,” says Professor Stevens, “ for the fate of Dupuytren’s patient was fresh in my recollection. I immediately placed my finger on the aperture in the vessel, seized the pulse with my other hand, and watched the patient’s countenance. All seemed well, and the patient’s reply to my interrogatory confirmed the favorable indications.” He treated the wounded vein by ligaturing the internal jugular above and below its place of entrance. The ligatures came away on the fourteenth day, and the case went on without any peculiarities.1 The following is likewise a pseudo-example of air in the veins:— Professor Verneuil, while removing a tumor of the right parotid gland, divided a vein (the external jugular or one of its branches) while separating the supra-clavicular prolongation of the tumor; a whistling sound indicated the passage of air into the vein; the latter was instantly compressed, then tied; but no change occurred in the pulse or breathing. The operation was completed, and the case progressed satisfac- torily afterward.2 It is far more likely, however, that the air did not enter the vein at all, but, instead thereof, passed into the loose connective tissue under the deep cer- vical fascia, in this as in the preceding case. Pathology.—Examinations after death from this accident show air mixed with blood in the right auricle and ventricle, often beaten up together into a spumous froth, with a similar spumous froth in the superior cava and other veins, and an unusually bloodless appearance of the lungs. Several explana- tions of the cause of death have been offered, none of which, however, are quite satisfactory. Among the most plausible of them is that which sup- poses that the air is carried into the right ventricle, and that, during the contraction of the right ventricle, the presence of this air prevents the clo- sure of the tricuspid and the semilunar valves, in consequence of which the two orifices which they guard remain pervious in both the systole and dias- tole of the heart, allowing the air to reach the pulmonary arteries, and in this way preventing the entrance of blood; hence there is a deficient supply of blood to the brain and nervous centres, and fatal syncope comes on, at- tended generally by convulsions. The heart’s action usually continues some time after respiration has ceased. Some who have recovered from the im- mediate effects have died from pneumonia. Treatment.—The securing of equal and regular breathing in the patient, throughout operations in the dangerous region, by duly regulating the ad- ministration of anaesthetics, is an important precaution against this accident, which should never be neglected. The surgeon himself should avoid all the causes of this accident which depend upon his own conduct during the ope- ration. There should be as much relaxation of the parts allowed as may be compatible with the safe or convenient performance of the operation. The 1 Cooper’s Surgical Dictionary, Supplement, Am. ed., pp. 165, 166. 2 Gazette Hebdomadaire, 1863, p. 722.