51 CONSTITUTIONAL SIGNS OF HEMORRHAGE. vessels which presents itself during what is called the intermediary period in the natural history of wounds, that is, during the period that intervenes between the stage of depression from shock on the one hand, and the stage which is marked by the occurrence of suppuration on the other. Intermediary hemor- rhages, therefore, come on with reaction from shock, before the apertures in wounded bloodvessels are securely closed, as well as before the appearance of purulent matter; either because the blood pressure is unduly increased by reaction, or because the external compression has ceased to be properly ap- plied, the occluding coagula becoming thus displaced, and the blood flowing out afresh. (3) By secondary hemorrhage is meant an effusion of blood from wounded vessels which does not occur until the establishment of suppuration, and the consequent separation of sloughs, eschars, etc., from the injured vessels. It does not appear before the fifth or sixth day after the infliction of a wound, and is most liable to happen about the twelfth or fourteenth day. (4) By parenchymatous hemorrhage is meant a sanguineous effusion in which the blood does not issue from the wounded, granulating, or ulcerating sur- face, in distinct streams, but seems to be poured out therefrom by a process of general oozing through small apertures, that is, from the parenchyma or substance of the part. Each of the three last varieties of traumatic hemorrhage will be thoroughly discussed by itself in a distinct section, after the wounds of arteries have been described. Constitutional Signs of Hemorrhage.—By loss of blood or hemorrhage a strikingly changed appearance of the human body, sometimes called exsanguinated or bloodless, is produced. The countenance, ears, lips, buccal mucous membrane, conjunctivse, and general integuments, become deathly pallid, and pinched or shrunken from departure of blood; the expression be- comes languid or vacant, and the surface is wet with cold sweat, which may stand in drops. At the same time, the functions of the brain, from anaemia of its substance, are greatly disturbed: humming, roaring, or ringing sounds are heard in the ears; a thick mist, or even darkness, perhaps illuminated with flashes of strange light, comes before the eyes; the sense of feeling is be- numbed ; and unconsciousness, with syncope or convulsions, follows. There is also extreme debility, with a faint voice, feeble, sighing, or gasping respi- ration, and small, frequent, weak, fluttering, or even scarcely perceptible pulse. Such are the general symptoms which attend and characterize exces- sive loss of blood, whether it be poured out externally or into the great cavities of the trunk. There are, however, some considerable differences between the symptoms that appear in the slow and in the sudden hemor- rhages. In the former, the patient is very slowly exhausted ; at each return of bleeding he faints, and is laid in bed, and applications of cold, and the fainting itself, save his life. After some days, he rises, pale, languid, and giddy; his pulse flutters, and is hardly to be felt; his breathing is quick and anxious, accompanied with sighing and great oppression ; his heart palpi- tates on the slightest exertion; and the slightest inclination of his head, or rising suddenly from the couch, endangers fainting. His voice is low; his eye is languid, colorless, and of a pearly white; his flesh feels soft and woolly, and his skin is pale and yellowish, gelatinous, and, as it were, trans- lucent, like modelled wax. After this stage of weakness, the blood loses its color; from this time forward it is a bloody serum only that distils from the vessels; dropsy appears ; and the slightest loss of blood proves fatal. (John Bell.) But, when the patient dies suddenly by an impetuous hemorrhage from