LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 157 1 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. pp. 96-100. tenance and lips, weak, rapid, or scarcely perceptible pulse, and great debility with marked faintness, or even complete syncope. The characteristic symp- toms of aneurism, however, are very frequently absent, as the examples of this accident, which have already been presented, fairly show; for in many of them there was neither pulsation in the tumor, nor aneurismal thrill, nor aneurismal bruit, nor even circumscribed tumefaction. When the aperture in the artery is very small, or when the laceration does not at first extend through all the coats of the artery, the swelling may come on very slowly or very irregularly; and this circumstance, together with the absence of the symptoms which characterize aneurismal tumors, has led surgeons of deserved eminence into errors of diagnosis that have been attended with disastrous consequences. The following case, reported by Mr. Callender, illustrates in a useful manner the symptomatology and some of the difficulties which may attend the diagnosis of this accident:— A gardener, aged 61, dislocated his left shoulder-joint by a fall. The luxation was reduced ; but, from employing passive movements too soon, it recurred. At the begin- ning of the seventh week, Mr. Callender again reduced it, under chloroform, by cir- cumduction, “ with the exercise of very slight force.” Immediately afterward, “ a swelling, rapidly lifting itself and projecting the pectoral muscle,” attracted his atten-. tion. It didmot pulsate, and the radial artery beat naturally. He erroneously thought the main artery was not injured ; “ so the arm was confined by a bandage and the patient was removed to his bed.” “ The swelling having attained considerable size ceased to grow larger, and, as the man recovered from chloroform, there was no com- plaint of local pain.” “ The following morning, the patient’s general condition was good.” “ The swelling beneath the pectoral muscle had become more diffused,” “ so that it extended around and behind the shoulder.” “ There was considerable ecchy- mosis,” “as low as the buttock,” “ and the entire arm was oedematous.” “ No change occurred, save that the ecchymosis began to clear up,” and the oedema of the arm was rapidly subsiding, until the fourth day. “ Then, after straining at stool, he complained of pain about the shoulder, and it was evident that blood had been freshly effused.” “ The radial and ulnar arteries continued to beat normally.” During the next thirty- eight days, the tumor “ did not materially increase in size. But now it again enlarged itself.” “As before, no pulsation existed in the swelling, nor was any bruit detected, carefully as it was naturally sought for.” The confinement to bed and the local mis- chief were beginning to tell on the patient; it was decided to operate, about six wreeks after the reduction of the luxation. An incision was made along the outer border of the pectoralis major, and was intersected by another, at its middle, extending inward through the whole thickness of the muscle, as high as the clavicle. When the great cavity thus opened was cleared of blood, some clots were seen projecting from behind the pectoralis minor. On removing them with a finger, a gush of arterial blood immediately followed. This bleeding was readily checked by compressing digitally the subclavian artery as it came over the first rib, and the distal portion in the lower part of the opened cavity. The pectoralis minor was then cut through, and it was seen that the bleeding came from a small, roundish aperture in the upper wall of the artery, and by pressing on this spot all hemorrhage was arrested. The vessel was next more completely exposed, and a ligature was passed around it on the distal side of the aperture, and then tied. A second ligature was placed on the vessel, about one inch above the first, and the artery itself was cut across midway between them. The walls of the vessel were considerably thickened. The principal veins and nerves were uninjured. For four days the patient did well. On the fifth day, the arm became gangrenous. On the afternoon of the seventh day, he died suddenly with symptoms of pulmonary embolism.”1 Had a correct diagnosis been made at the outset of this case, and had a plan of treatment consisting of adequately compressing the subclavian artery upon the first rib, and likewise the tumor itself, and confining the arm to the chest