558 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. which is itself consecutive to an ascending neuritis ; in this class are placed the reflex paralyses, which are known as immediate paralyses without atrophy, and as late paralyses with muscular atrophy and myelitis. Diagnosis.—The surgeon may be called upon to make the diagnosis in a case of nerve wound, either at the moment of injury, or a certain time after- wards, when the secondary symptoms have supervened. At the time of injury it is not difficult to make a diagnosis, the history, the site of the wound, the acute pain felt by the patient, and the various disturbances of motility and sensibility being sufficiently characteristic. But the diagnosis of the kind of wTound is often very difficult, and is based chiefly upon the history and upon the lesions of the soft parts, which differ, for example, in incised wounds from those met with in contused wounds ; nevertheless, an acute pain which radiated towards the periphery, without either disturbance of sensation or motion, would indicate a punctured wound; loss of sensation and motion in the region supplied by a nerve, without very acute pain, would suggest the presence of an incised wound; numbness and tingling would favor the idea of a contused wound; increase of pain and of the general symptoms, upon pressure, would be especially met with in cases complicated by the presence of foreign bodies, which under such circumstances would be commonly found by exploration of the wound, and, finally, the more or less complete loss of the functions of the injured nerve would distinguish a complete from an incomplete section. The diagnosis of the particular nerve which is injured will depend upon a knowledge of the course and. functions of each nerve. But great allowance must be made, in the appreciation of the symptoms, for the variations that may arise from the degree of excitability of the patient, and especially must the surgeon distrust the results furnished by examinations made immediately after the injury, as has been already pointed out when speaking of symp- tomatology. In conclusion, it is especially by observing the sequence of phenomena, the quick or slow appearance of the secondary symptoms, or, on the contrary, the rapid restoration of the nervous functions, that the diag- nosis of the variety of the lesion may be arrived at, taking care in consider- ing this last order of facts to avoid attributing to the injured nerve the sensibility which it owes to the recurrent filaments, and the movements pro- duced through the muscles innervated by neighboring trunks. When secondary symptoms are present, it is still to be remembered that they are due to an old nerve wound, and it must be decided whether we have to deal with a neuritis or a sclerosis ; finally, it will be well to know whether the lesion has reacted upon the nerve centres, in order to appreciate the na- ture of the intervention required and the opportunity of its application. The secondary symptoms of nerve-wounds may be confounded with cere- bral, spinal, rheumatic, or lead palsies, which may be distinguished, the first by the retention of electro-muscular contractility, and the others by the general condition of the patient and the accompanying symptoms, but, above all, by the etiology, which is in truth the only certain means of diagnosis of surgical nerve-lesions. It is also important to be on the watch for old and forgotten morbid conditions, as, for example, a coxalgia dating from infancy, which may have caused disturbances of sensibility and motility that are only noticed by the patient upon receiving an injury, and that the surgeon may be tempted to attribute to a nerve lesion. Finally, it must be remembered, that certain affections of the digital ex- tremities (whitlows, burns, and chilblains) may be followed by trophic and functional disturbances which may also extend in these cases to the parts supplied by neighboring nerves.