INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 108 blood or other liquids into the veins. A few drops of liquor ammonite may be injected into the bulbs, now and then, with a fine-pointed hypodermic syringe, in order to more effectually prevent coagulation. The manner of using the apparatus for mediate transfusion is as follows: The glass vessel marked A in the cut is applied to the tube in place of the giver’s canula, marked B, and has poured into it the blood to be transfused. The instrument is to be applied to the receiver’s arm, and afterward to be worked in the manner directed above. If this blood he not defibrinated and strained, three or four drops of liquor ammonite must he added to each ounce, in order to prevent coagulation.1 For other methods of performing this operation, and there are several, the reader has already been referred to the first volume of this encyclopaedia. When a patient is in danger of perishing from hemorrhage, resort should at once be had to transfusion, that is, to the introduction of blood from a sound person into the empty vessels of the patient. “ I have seen,” says Professor Agnew,2 “ patients who were dying from epistaxis rescued from the very verge of dissolution by the timely passage of a few ounces of blood into a vein of the arm. Hot only is this operation indicated in excessive hemorrhage, but I have known several cases of obstinate anaemia greatly benefited by the same practice.” The cases requiring transfusion may be briefly outlined as follows: (1) Those in which the hemorrhage occurs from large bloodvessels, and cannot be stanched until death is imminent. (2) Those examples of prolonged epistaxis, also, wherein death has become immi- nent. (3) Those instances of post-partum hemorrhage in which reaction can- not take place unless blood obtained extraneously is at once poured into the empty vessels. (4) Those cases of anaemic exhaustion, caused by great losses of blood, in which the ordinary measures prove insufficient to raise the patient; this class will be found to be unhappily numerous, especially among the wounded in time of war. (5) Inasmuch as depression from the loss of blood is one of the most important factors concerned in the genesis of blood-poisoning in surgical practice, it is often right to overcome it by trans- fusion. The blood for transfusion must in all cases be taken from a human being, as that of animals does not answer the purpose. The donor should be a per- son in good health, entirely free from constitutional disease, and young also, if possible. In operating, the blood is usually thrown into the venous sys- tem of the receiver; but Hfiter, of Greifswald, recommends that it be thrown into the arterial instead of the venous system, believing that it would thus pass into the heart in a more equable and less rapid manner. So, then, in cases where organic weakness of the receiver’s heart, e. g., fatty degeneration, is present, transfusing into the arteries, as advised by Hfiter, would be preferable to transfusing into the veins. The operation for immediate transfusion, described above, though simple, requires considerable skill and delicacy of manipulation ; and those expect- ing to practise it, will do well to perform it a few times on animals, for then no difficulty will be experienced in operating on man. It proves most useful after profuse hemorrhage, where the vessels are comparatively empty and the vascular tension is but slight; in chronic cases, where the vessels have become filled again to about their natural capacity, the blood should be transfused in but small quantity at one sitting, that is about six ounces at a time, lest too great a strain be placed upon the heart. Throughout the whole procedure, great care must be taken against the entrance of air into the bloodvessels, for this accident might prove quickly fatal. Medical Record, April 15, 1874. * Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. i. p. 176.