535 ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. External arterio-venous aneurisms may form in the same way, qr from an abscess opening into both vessels ; but this mode of origin is undoubtedly less frequent than some form of traumatism,1 and especially common are, first, venesection wounds, and then gunshot injuries. Bardeleben collected from published sources 91 cases of traumatic anterio-venous aneurism. Of these 49 were from venesection, 14 from gunshot wound, and the rest from various forms of injurytherefore, as might be supposed, the greater number of cases depend upon preternatural communication between the brachial artery and the median basilic vein. The next most frequent seat of the disease is between the femoral artery and its vein (13 cases), the next in the temporal artery (9 cases),2 etc. Nor are we to suppose that the disease follows, of necessity, immediately or rapidly after infliction of the injury. In Rokitansky’s case,3 the disease first made its presence known in the axilla thirty years after the receipt of a gunshot wound. Beaumont’s (Toronto) patient had received a wound in the groin ; for more than ten years a loud and constant thrill-murmur, audible at some distance, was the only symptom ; at the end of that time an aneurism formed while riding on horseback.4 In Dr. Cotter’s case, a wound of the thigh occurred eight and a half years previous to the formation in the scar of an aneurismal varix.5 That comparatively small vessels may he thus affected, is shown by the relatively not infrequent occurrence of a communication between the tem- poral artery and its companion vein ; this has been generally due to arterio- tomy practised for therapeutic purposes, but it has also followed an accidental wound. But perhaps the most interesting example of such disease in a very small vessel is the case reported by Mr. Moore.6 The disease was developed on a branch of the sciatic artery within the substance of the popliteal nerve; therefore, though the tumor was not large, and communicated with very small vessels, it gave great pain, and caused considerable embarrassment in diagnosis. It is not mentioned, whether or no, in this case, auscultation was employed. The case is described as one of arterio-venous cyst. 'Diagnosis of Arterio- Venous Aneurism.—The diagnosis of this disease, in those parts of the body which interest us as surgeons, depends upon the points of symptomatology and history already described. A direct wound in the course of an artery, followed by pulsation of enlarged and varicose veins; a tumor at or near the site of injury ; and a murmur more or less loud and harsh, present the problem in its simplest and easiest form. When the vessel is superficial, as at the bend of the elbow, or near the groin, the distinctive differences between aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism can he readily made out. Certain symptoms may, it is true, either by their presence or absence, cause some doubts ; hut the peculiar purring, or thrill-murmur, is, when pre- sent, so characteristic, that, even if there he no tumor, the existence of arterio- venous communication may be taken as established. More deeply seated disease, especially if it be surrounded and compressed by firm, strong muscles, occasionally, though rarely, omits the most significant symptom—murmur7—or, at least, that phenomenon may be hut slightly marked. 1 Pressure, as in Pemberton’s case already mentioned, may be classed as a traumatic cause, although the mechanical injury be slow (chronic) in its mode of action. 8 Bardeleben, Diss. Inaug., Berlin. Ueber das traumatische Aneurysma arterio-venosum. 3 Ueber einige der wichtigsten Krankheiten der Arterien. 4 Med. Times and Gazette, July 27,1867. 5 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, vol. xlviii. p. 36. 6 Med.-Chir. Transactions, vol. xlix. p. 29. 7 See a case by Mr. Annandale, Lancet, April 24, 1875. The disease was in the posterior tibial artery and companion vein, and was, until operated on, mistaken for a common aneurism.