INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 208 canals of the encephalon. In the following example, the left petrosal sinus was lacerated by a fracture of the skull; death from cerebral compression speedily ensued A young lady (Emma Leiding) in Brooklyn, on October 4, jumped off from an At- lantic Street horse-car, which was running away down hill, the brakes having failed. She alighted on her feet, but, in her fright, fell backward striking upon her head. She was immediately picked up insensible, having a scalp-wound on the back part of the head, and soon afterwards died without recovering consciousness. Autopsy, Oct. 5—The only mark of violence found externally was a contused and lacerated wound of the scalp on the posterior part of the head. On opening the skull, a large quantity of uncoagulated (or liquid) blood was discovered in the cranial cavity. On removing the brain, the base of the skull was found fractured on the left side ; the left petrosal sinus was ruptured, which accounted for the hemorrhage. No other lesions were present. Thus, the cause of death was cerebral compression, the result of extravasation of blood from a lacerated petrosal sinus. Moreover, extravasations of blood from wounds of this vessel are apt to prove quickly5 fatal, first, because they are rapid and copious, and secondly, because they directly compress the medulla oblongata. In such cases there is no return of con- sciousness. The insensibility of cerebral concussion is succeeded by that of cerebral compression, without any appreciable interval. Such cases are not remediable.1 Other cases, however, are remediable. For instance, Guthrie2 reports the following case:— A dragoon fell from his horse, in consequence of a wound in the trunk, on to the top of his head. Coma supervened. A swelling of the scalp was noticed at the vertex, where he had struck; this, on being incised, showed a separation of the edges of the sagittal suture, from which some blood flowed. Two crowns of a trephine were applied on the twelfth day, in order to obtain a free discharge of some blood which had been extravasated from a wound in the superior longitudinal sinus, after which the symptoms subsided, and the man gradually recovered. M. Mouton mentions a similar instance in which he was called to see a man eleven days after a fall. The patient was insensible and almost dying, in consequence of an extravasation of blood from the superior longitudinal sinus, wounded by a separation of the sagittal suture. Trephining gave vent to the extravasated blood, and the threaten- ing symptoms immediately ceased.3 Wounds of the longitudinal or lateral sinuses are not dangerous, provided the external opening is large enough to allow the blood to escape freely. But when the blood cannot escape in this way, such wounds are extremely dan- gerous from the attendant compression of the brain. M. Lassus presented two cases in which the superior longitudinal sinus was opened by punctured fractures of the parietal bones at the sagittal suture. In each case a, trephine was applied, the fragments or splinters of bone were pulled out of the sinus into which they had been driven, the bleeding was stopped by applying some dry lint to the rent in the sinus, and the patient made a good recovery.4 M. Gagniere has reported a case in which the superior longitudinal sinus was wounded by a blow on the top of the head with a dung-fork. He enlarged the opening in the scalp by a cruciform incision, and extracted the fracture-splinters; and he then per- ceived a clot of blood which had formed in the opening of the sinus, which had been made by the fork. The dressing, which was made in the manner usual after trephining, was moistened with spiritus balsamicus, a powerful antiseptic ; no severe symptoms fol- lowed, and the wound was quite healed by the end of three months.5 1 Mr. Prescott Hewett records a most extensive extravasation of blood between tbe bone and the dura mater, which proceeded from a rupture of the right lateral sinus, just as it turns under the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in a case of fracture. (Trans. Patholog. Soc. of London, vol. iii. p. 229.) 2 Commentaries on Surgery, etc., p. 349, Am. ed. 3 Memoirs of the Royal Acad, of Surgery of France, Sydenham Society’s Translation, p. 8. 4 Ibid., pp. 66, 67. 5 Ibid-. P- 69-