64 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. a wound, removing the clots, and exposing its bare surface to the contact of fresh cold air, has often stopped at once a hemorrhage which had continued to be free, as long as the wound was kept closed and coveffed up with pledgets and bandages. Wounds are often left open for a considerable time solely for the purpose of obtaining the haemostatic influence of the atmosphere. The energy of atmospheric cold may he considerably increased by fanning the exposed part. Cold may also be applied in the form of water or of ice. Compresses soaked in cold water may he laid on, and, when frequently renewed, they exert a powerful haemostatic influence. Cold water, too, may be squeezed from the pores of a sponge in showers upon a wound ; or, it may be thrown in a small steady stream from the nozzle of a syringe. This plan usually effects rapid contraction in the small vessels that are wounded, and thus quickly stops their bleeding. Sometimes, in operations about the air-pas- sages, it is especially important to employ cold water thrown in a fine stream upon the incision, with a small syringe. Finally, cold may be applied in the form of ice. When hemorrhage occurs within the cavity of the uterus, or of the rectum, or of the mouth, suitably shaped fragments of ice may often be laid, with great advantage, directly upon the bleeding surface. In cases where dry cold of great intensity is required, it may readily he obtained by placing pounded ice or freezing mixtures in bladders or India-rubber hags adapted for the purpose. II. Alcohol.—Applied to a raw surface, alcohol excites a severe smarting pain, with a considerable contraction of the wounded bloodvessels; it also coagu- lates the blood itself. As an external application alcohol, in a natural or an artificial form, has, from remote antiquity, been used as a dressing for wounds. The ancient use of oil and wine for this purpose is well known. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, alcohol was extensively employed as a dressing for incised and other clean wounds, and its ability to suppress bleed- ing was then noted. Recent observations also attest its excellence in arrest- ing hemorrhages, by causing the wounded vessels to contract, and by coagu- lating the albumen of exuded plasma. It may he applied in the form of rectified spirit, by moistening a soft sponge therewith, and gently pressing it upon the bleeding surface. Alcohol is also useful for dressings to wounds in other respects, for it prevents the putrefaction of discharges, and promotes cicatrization. III. Oil of Turpentine.—John Hunter termed this “ the best, if not the only true styptic,” and its efficacy justifies this high estimate of its value. In external traumatic hemorrhages it has proved efficient; and it has been used with success in almost every other form of hemorrhage. It has been used with most success, however, in cases where the bleeding was passive. The particular affections for which it has been successfully prescribed are epistaxis,. hcematemesis, hcematuria, menorrhagia, post-partum bleeding, and the multiple bleedings occurring under the influence of the hemorrhagic diathesis. It acts by arousing the contractility of the vessels that are opened and bleeding. It may he used internally as well as externally with advantage. It may he applied by saturating dossils of lint, and placing them upon the bleeding points. Internally, it may be administered in doses of ten or fifteen drops suspended in mucilage, emulsion, or yolk of egg, every hour or two, until relief is obtained. By giving ten drops, in simple emulsion, every fifteen minutes, I once saved a case of prolonged epistaxis that had been considered almost hopeless. The liability of turpentine to irritate the bladder should not he forgotten.