611 TETANUS. centres without any special lesion; and for its effect, muscular contractions with or without elevation of temperature. Symptoms and Course.—Tetanus reveals itself by two orders of symptoms of very different importance—one constant and necessary, muscular contrac- tion, and the other very variable, and sometimes entirely absent, elevation of temperature. Let us first study these symptoms by themselves, with the changes of pulse, blood, and urine, and we shall afterwards see how they are combined and modified, so as to constitute the different varieties of the disease. The muscular contraction characteristic of tetanus, is a permanent, tonic con- vulsion, with paroxysms ; but it does not, at the first onset, present itself in this form. Each group of muscles contracts at first in an intermittent man- ner, at the moment of the general paroxysms only, and is completely relaxed in the interval; then the contraction becomes continuous, with an increase at the moment of the crises, and it is under this form that it persists the longest; finally, in exceptionally grave cases, the tonic contraction may be so energetic, that the crises do not sensibly influence it. When recovery is about to occur, the permanent contractions again alternate with complete remissions before disappearing, and, finally, show themselves only with voluntary movements. At this period of decline the convulsions are less easily provoked by external excitation, and do not continue as long as during the periods of the disease’s increase and height. The temperature may remain normal, or nearly so, even in the most acute cases; when it is elevated it has no defined cycle, and may present all varia- tions, without necessary relation to the gravity of the disease and the in- tensity or generalization of the muscular contractions—without, in fine, the maxima constantly corresponding to the paroxysms; the evening increase is I not observed as in most acute diseases. These restrictions made, it must be said that, in very acute cases, the most frequent course of the temperature I is the following: It is at the outset 39° C. (102.2° Fahr.) in the axilla, and I the increase continues, with or without oscillations, until it exceptionally | reaches (Wunderlich), at the moment of death, 43°, or 44.75° C. (109.4° or 112.5° Fahr.); the temperature may sometimes be further elevated after | death, and the same observer has seen it reach 45.3° C. (113.5° Fahr.) in [ these conditions. In other cases, on the contrary, death is preceded by a I lowering of the temperature. The modifications of the pulse seem to correspond more exactly with the I course of the disease and with the paroxysms; from 80 to 120 in mild cases, I the number of pulsations may be increased to 150 and 160 in the grave cases; I according to other authors, however, the curve of the pulse is pretty closely I parallel to that of the temperature. Finally, in regard to the modifications of the urine and of the blood, in the I writings of the few authors who have studied these, there are found only I contradictory results; the amouut of urea, for example, is increased according I to some, and diminished according to others. The analysis of these liquids I in tetanic patients would furnish, however, an important foundation for the I study of the pathological physiology of the disease. General Type of TStamc Symptoms.—In the first fifteen days which follow the injury, without any precursory sign on the part of the wound—such as dry- ness, bad appearance, or arrest of cicatrization, to which formerly were attri- buted some importance—the patient is seized with a slight trismus, which still permits a little separation of the jaws, but which is increased if we I attempt to overcome it, and which is accompanied by a particular aspect of I the physiognomy, by a look of contentment of which the exaggeration con-