604 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. the size of a pea or bean, subcutaneous, or forming more or less a part of the deep surface of the derm, and consequently more or less movable, hard, smooth, round, and accompanied sometimes with modifications of the skin which will be again referred to. The slightest handling of this tumor pro- vokes an explosion of painful, neuralgia-like paroxysms, accompanied with centrifugal or even centripetal irradiations, and having an intensity and vari- able duration according to the particular case. Strong pressure may, on the contrary, not determine painful paroxysms. In the interval of these parox- ysms all the painful phenomena generally disappear. Pain is not only provoked by the examination of the tumor, and by the contact and friction of the clothes, but it is further determined by movements of the part, or by muscular contraction, and supervenes even, especially when the affection has lasted for a certain time, from inappreciable causes. According to Bouchage, who reports in his thesis a minutely analyzed case ■of painful subcutaneous tubercle, there may be distinguished two varieties of pain, so to speak, which are due, the one to the general sensibility, which is increased at the seat of the tumor, the other to the special connections which the tumor has contracted with the smooth fibres of the deep surface of the derm and the surrounding small nerve-filaments. After a sudden blow upon the tumor, for example, the first variety shows itself by an imme- diate and temporary pain, and the second by the characteristic painful parox- ysm which is delayed a few moments after the excitation. It is upon this kind of incubation of the painful paroxysm, that the author has based a patho- genic theory which will be hereafter explained. The paroxysm presents great variety according to the patient: sometimes it is a bearable pain, which scarcely disturbs the patient a few minutes from his occupation; sometimes it is a more acute suffering, which may last several hours; sometimes, finally, the paroxysm is sufficiently violent to provoke isyncope, or to he accompanied by epileptiform convulsions. In a certain number of cases there are noted, at the moment of the paroxysm, changes, of which some affect the tumor itself, and some the skin which covers it. As regards the tumor, there has been noticed a kind of turges- cence, or an increase in consistence, and a greater adherence to the skin (Bou- chage). In regard to the skin, it is congested and reddened, according to some authors, during the paroxysm, although in Bouchage’s case paleness replaced at this moment the violet color which it had in the intervals between the pains. Course.—We have seen that the tumor in most cases exists before the ap- pearance of the painful paroxysms. This period of painlessness may be quite long, and may last even for several years. The evolution of the tumor is .always extremely slow, and we know that its size does not exceed that of a pea or bean; at first subcutaneous, it ends most frequently by becoming adhe- rent to the skin, which then sometimes assumes a violet color. The painful paroxysms generally follow a slowly progressive course, and have no tendency to a spontaneous recovery; nevertheless, in exceptional cases they have been found to become milder, and to disappear without treatment, at the same time as the tumor. In this connection Windsor’s case may be cited, in which a painful tumor of the forearm, appearing after a bleeding, was found to he formed of small, hard granules inclosed in a cystic membrane. The patient was fifty-nine years old, and Bouchage regards the case as an example of cre- taceous transformation and segmentation of a fibrous tumor. The pain always yields to the ablation of the tumor, but in certain cases may continue for a time after the operation, and only disappear gradually. Finally, although these tumors do not, properly speaking, recur, yet several may require opera*