LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 149 A case of popliteal aneurism, operated on by Mr. James Earle, at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, was also caused by a strain:— John Smith, aged about 50; he said that about six months before, he had fallen from a scaffold, and that his leg had been caught between the rounds of a ladder, which broke his fall; that he immediately felt pain in the upper part of his leg; that soon afterward it began to swell, and that the swelling had gradually increased to its present size. On examination there appeared a large hard swelling under the heads of the gastrocnemii muscles, reaching up to the bend of the leg. Pulsation was plainly felt in it, and there was no doubt of its being an aneurism. The tumor was now increasing very fast. January 28,1792, Mr. Earle tied the artery a short distance above the tumor, on Anel’s plan ; the ligature came away on the fifteenth day, and the man made a good recovery. The case was communicated by Mr. Earle to Home, who published it in the London Medical Gazette. I believe that the violent stretching to which the popliteal artery had been subjected in this case ruptured its inner and middle coats, and thus caused the development of an aneurism. Rupture of the Anterior Tibia! Artery.—In the following example, this vessel was burst open by a blow from a spade, without any corresponding breach of the integuments:— A laboring man had noticed a slight swelling on his ankle, which gave him no pain, until he struck it a severe blow with a spade one day while at work. Afterward the swelling gradually and continuously enlarged. An explorative incision gave issue only to blood. On operating for the removal of this swelling, it was found to be caused by a wound of the anterior tibial artery, which communicated with an old bursal cyst.1 By severe blows and by violent strains the posterior tibial artery may be ruptured, just as readily as the anterior tibial, the popliteal, or the femoral; and the treatment should generally consist of bringing into view, by suitable incisions, etc., the ends of the ruptured artery, and securely tying both of them with ligatures of prepared catgut, unless there be some complication present which necessitates amputation. Rupture of the Brachial Artery.—Malgaigne relates the following case:— M. Michaux received at the hospital of Louvain a lad of ten years, who had dislo- cated his elbow backward and outward. There was considerable swelling, but the radial pulse still continued to beat. On the next day reduction was attempted, with assistants. On the third day it was again unsuccessfully attempted; and, in conse- quence, the elbow became greatly swollen, the radial and ulnar arteries ceased to beat, and the hand lost all color and sensibility. Gangrene ensued; and, six days after the last attempt, M. Michaux performed amputation which saved the patient’s life. Examination of the amputated limb showed a rupture of the brachial artery and median nerve.2 The case of a lad, aged 18, who had compound dislocation of the elbow and rupture of the brachial artery, but still recovered, is reported in the Lancet of August 8, 1874. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus protruded through a lacerated wound at the front and inner part of the forearm. The brachial artery was found to be torn across. The case progressed favorably without interruption. * At the end of eight weeks the patient was sent into the country with the wound healed, and the elbow anchylosed at a convenient angle. In the museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, Series XIII. 88, there is part of a brachial artery which was torn straight across by external violence^ The patient, aged 69, fell with his arm stretched out. At first he seemed little injured ; but pulsa- tion was lost in the radial and ulnar arteries. In a few hours the arm became enor- mously swollen and livid, and amputation near the shoulder was performed.3 1 British Medical Journal, January 11, 1873, p. 43. 2 Trait6 des Fractures, etc.,t. ii. p. 153. 3 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 107.