(45) INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. BY JOHN A. LIDELL, A.M., M.D., LATE SURGEON TO BELLEVUE HOSPITAL J ALSO LATE SURGEON U. S. VOLUNTEERS IN CHARGE OF STANTON U. S. ARMY GENERAL HOSPITAL, INSPECTOR OF THE MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY OF THE POTOMAC, ETC. Bloodvessels are the musculo-elastic tubes and hollow muscles which receive, contain, and convey the blood in animals, and in man. They are naturally divided into three distinct groups or systems, whereof each is cha- racterized by certain well-known features, namely, the arterial, the venous, and the capillary ; together with a central organ, the heart. In this article, then, we shall have to consider, severally, the traumautic lesions of the arteries, the veins, the capillaries, and the heart, which may chance to require the attention of surgeons. But injuries of these vessels are of no especial mo- ment to surgeons unless they cause, or are liable to cause, (1), hemoi'rhage; or (2), destructive inflammation of the injured vessel itself; or, (3), gangrene of the parts supplied or nourished by the injured vessel. We shall, there- fore, have to discuss not only the several kinds or modes of injury to which the bloodvessels themselves are exposed, hut, likewise, the hemorrhages, the vascular inflammations, and the gangrenes which experience has shown to result from these injuries. Surgical Hemorrhage. Any effusion of blood from the vessels framed to hold it, whether attended with rupture (wound), or occurring without rupture (wound) of their walls, is, in the broad or unrestricted sense of the term, a hemorrhage. Now, such effusions of blood may, in respect to origin, be spontaneous, or they may be traumatic. The first belong, for the most part, to the domain of medicine; the latter, exclusively to the domain of surgery. But not all the extravasa- tions of blood which are caused by injuries, and, therefore, are properly called traumatic, should be denominated examples of surgical hemorrhage. For instance, it is hardly worth while to dignify a simple ecchymosis of the skin, or a common “ black-eye,” by styling it surgical hemorrhage, although the discoloration is wholly dependent on the extravasation of blood from vessels ruptured by violence. So, too, with most, perhaps with all traumatic hemorrhages, that are essentially trivial and require no treatment. It seems clear, then, that the term surgical hemorrhage should be applied to those instances of the traumatic extravasation of blood, only, which are, per se, of such importance as to require surgical treatment, or which prove fatal in default of such treatment. But, there also are certain hemorrhages, which are not traumatic, that demand the employment of surgical measures for their arrest,