533 ARTEBIO-VENOUS ANEURISM. saw in 1872, is like the noise of a gas-burner turned too high. It is some- times loud enough to keep the patient awake, or even to waken him if he happen to raise up the affected arm near to his ear. The same mechanism which produces the sound causes a vibration of the tumor, which is exactly like the sensation communicated to a hand placed on the back of a growling dog, or a purring cat. This thrill is continuous, and may be felt through and with the pulsation, but neither increases nor decreases with the beat of the heart. The same condition of tegumentary hypertrophy exists as was described in speaking of aneurismal varix, and to this is not unfrequently added a general, soft thickening of the sort sometimes called solid oedema; ordinary cedema, also, is not unusual. Other places where traumatism occasionally produces arterio-venous an- eurism of the varix variety, are some parts of the scalp, mostly over the tem- poral, large auricular, and occipital arteries; but in those places, because the vessels are smaller, the anastomoses freer, and the surrounding tissues denser, a somewhat different result is produced, namely dilatation of the arterial and venous branches, their offsets and minute twigs, into a mesh of enlarged, convoluted, and pulsating vessels, closely resembling—indeed, generally in- distinguishable from—cirsoid aneurism; a subject which has been considered in a previous article. Also, the disease has been known to follow fractures through the sella turcica or orbit, the preternatural communication being either between the carotid artery and cavernous sinus, or between the ophthalmic artery and vein, whence, as already described, originates one form of the disease termed pulsating tumor of the orbit.1 It must not, however, be supposed that arterio-venous aneurism is always the result of wound. Varicose aneurism has often occurred without such causation, and in deep parts of the body; even aneurismal varix may thus arise without direct wound. I believe Mr. Syme2 to have been the first surgeon who published a case of varicose aneurism of the aorta. Six years subsequently, viz., in 1837, Mr. Gr. H. Perry3 noted a case of this disease occurring between the popliteal artery and vein, and Mr. Porter4 * recorded a similar example. In 1840, Mr. Thurnam® read his excellent memoir on the subject; since which time, although additional cases have been published by Rokitansky,6 Mayn,7 Beaumont,8 Pemberton,9 Wade,10 and many others, little light has remained to be thrown upon the matter. This light chiefly touches certain points regarding the relative frequency of the disease at differ- ent parts, and the mode of its occurrence. Mr. Thurnam’s paper first called attention to the fact that these preter- natural communications may take place between the largest vessels of the body—as between the first or second part of the thoracic aorta and any large vein or venous chamber of the heart. Thus there is distinct anatomical evidence of the existence of arterio-venous aneurisms of most of the larger vessels of the body. Thurnam’s cases, indeed, show that of 18 aortic aneurisms, 1 Delens, Thfcse ; De la communication de la Carotide interne et du Sinus caverneux. Paris, 1870. 2 Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, July, 1831, p. 114. 3 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xx. p. 31. 4 Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology, vol. i. p. 242. 6 On Aneurisms, especially Spontaneous Varicose Aneurisms of the Ascending Aorta. Medico- Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xxiii. p. 323. 6 Ueber einige der wichtigsten Krankheiten der Arterien. 7 Dublin Medical Journal, July, 1854. 8 Medical Times and Gazette, 1867, vol. ii. The preparation is in the College of Surgeons’ I Museum. 1 9 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xliv. p. 189. The disease followed pressure-treatment for popliteal aneurism.