304 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. platysma myoides, the dissection being prosecuted with the fingers, etc., in the manner above described, and the landmarks of the operation being con- stantly kept in view or felt for: these are the omo-hyoid muscle and the brachial plexus of nerves, above; the first rib, below; the tense, sharp, outer edge of the scalenus anticus, together with the tubercle of the first rib, inter- nally; and the pulsations of the artery itself just behind and external to the outer edge of the scalenus anticus muscle. The operation of ligating the subclavian artery on the outer side of the scaleni muscles was attempted, for the first time, in 1809, by Sir Astley Cooper. In the same year a ligature was passed around the artery for axillary aneurism, by Ramsden,at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital,and the patient survived five days. Between that date and 1816, the operation was repeated by Sir William Bliz- ard, by Thomas Blizard, and by Dr. Colles, but all three of the patients died. The first successful deligation of the subclavian artery was performed, in 1817, by Dr. Wright Post, of Hew York; and in 1820, Liston obtained an equally happy result from the same operation. The operation of tying the subclavian on the tracheal side of the scaleni was performed, for the first time, in 1818, by Dr. Colies, and with a fatal result. It appears to have been practised nineteen times, death following in every instance. Five of these operations have been performed in'America: by J. Kearney Rodgers, in 1845; by Valentine Mott, in 1851; by Willard Parker, in 1863; and by S. C. Ayres and C. H. Bullen, in 1864. The two last men- tioned cases occurred during the late civil war. The operation of ligating the subclavian artery between the scaleni muscles, that is, in the second part of its course, was likewise twice performed during the late civil war, namely, by Surg. J. H. Grove, U. S. Vols., at Rome, Ga., in 1864; and by Surg. B. B. Breed, U. S. Vols., at Hashville, Tenn., in 1865. Both operations were unsuccessful.1 Ligation of the Axillary Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The axillary artery gently curves outward and somewhat downward, through the middle of the axillary space, from the inferior margin of the first rib to the inferior border of the latissimus dorsi muscle, where it becomes the brachial artery. (Figs. 478, 480.) It-is crossed by the pectoralis minor muscle, which divides its course into three unequal parts, namely : (1) the part internal to or above the pectoralis minor; (2) the part behind or covered by that muscle; and (3) the part external to or below it (Fig. 478). Relations.—Having emerged underneath the costo-coracoid membrane, the artery is in immediate relation with the axillary vein, which lies at first to the inner side, and then in front of it. Hear the middle of the axilla, the artery is embraced by the two heads of the median nerve, and is crossed in front by the pectoralis minor muscle. Internally, that is, on the thoracic side, it is in relation above with the first intercostal muscle ; it next rests upon the first serration of the serratus magnus; and below, it is separated from the chest by the brachial plexus of nerves. Externally, that is, on the humeral side, it is separated at first from the brachial plexus by a triangular cellular interval; it next rests against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle; and, finally, is in contact with the coraco-brachialis muscle. Seven important branches issue from it. Hogdson’s Operation. (Fig. 481.)—The patient having been placed on his back, the operator makes a semilunar incision through the integuments, just below the clavicle, three or four inches in length, commencing about 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., First Surgical Volume, pp. 546, 547.