422 ANEURISM. body is called “whipping,” to conduce to the deposit, layer by layer, of active or laminated clot. This deposit, if all proceed in the most desirable manner, should, in due course, fill the aneurism, and subsequently also the vessel itself, up to and down to the next considerable branch. Sometimes, however, the clotting in the artery beyond the sac does not occur; and it is probable that certain instances of more or less rapid relapse have been owing to non-oblitera- tion of the afferent and efferent vessels. The gradual method may be contin- uous or non-continuous. In the earlier days of this mode of treatment, pres- sure was nearly always kept up unintermittingly, day and night, until it suc- ceeded or had certainly failed. Of late, however, the more merciful plan of non-continuous compression is generally employed,1 during periods, and at intervals, adapted to the powers and endurance of the patient. It is cer- tainly wise to leave, every night, from four to six hours for undisturbed sleep. The second method, called “ sudden,” or “ rapid,” attempts to do in a certain number of minutes, or perhaps of hours, what by the gradual method is done during days or weeks; in certain parts of the body, notably the abdomen, this is the only available means of making pressure; but it may also be used for external aneurisms. The aid of an anaesthetic (but complete anaesthesia is not needed) is usually invoked, and then by means of the fingers, or some compressor adapted to the part, complete occlusion of ffie vessel is effected, until, if success is to be obtained, the tumor may be felt to become solid. The pressure is then somewhat relaxed, but is not to be entirely abrogated for a period of at least five hours. For the clot which is produced suddenly, by complete stagnation of the blood, is necessarily of soft, loose consistence; a mere coagulation of fibrine and corpuscles, inclosing in the meshes a quan- tity of serum. After a time, this semi-solid contracts centripetally, and the fluid becomes squeezed out into the circumference, that is, between the coagulum and the sac. It is to be supposed that, if no blood-current re-enter the aneurism, this serum must become absorbed, and the sac must contract upon the already diminishing coagulum ; or if a slight stream do afterwards pass through the tumor, active laminated clot may be formed around the passive one. But it may and does also happen that a relapse will occur; the newly entering blood-current dissolves or washes away the recent coagulum, and the sac is again filled simply with fluid blood.2 But if the surgeon find that, under proximal, rapid pressure, solidification in the aneurism is taking place, he may entertain strong hopes that by cau- tious management a cure may result. Some dangers are, however, yet to be considered. Broca did, doubtless, very much exaggerate the after dangers of passive clot accumulated within an aneurism, as the vast number of rapid cures by pressure and by the Esmarch bandage show ; but there is undoubtedly, in these cases, a certain proclivity to inflammation and suppuration of the sac. Sometimes the effect of proximal pressure, either gradual or sudden, is the direct contrary to that which is intended, viz., a marked and rapid increase in the size of the sac. It is difficult to account for this phenomenon, but we know that it is not very infrequent, and that it is a strong warning to the surgeon to discontinue the treatment lest rupture take place. Indeed, this untoward event has occasionally occurred. Indirect, instrumental pressure on the proximal side of the tumor has been most frequently used with success in popliteal and in femoral aneurisms, but has also proved efficacious when applied to the brachial, subclavian, and com- 1 Sometimes called dis-continuous. 2 This question of relapse after apparent solidification, presents a hitherto unsolved diffi- culty. I am not aware that any facts go to show that clotted blood can be redissolved in flowing blood ; and yet we know that clots formed after the above manner in aneurisms do disappear without producing embolism of the vessels beyond.