SECONDARY HEMORRHAGE. 275 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 420. increased, and his countenance indicated great suffering. He referred the pain to the stump-bone, particularly the end of it; but he was not feverish, and the stump itself was not swelled nor hot. On the morning of the 3d, at an early hour, the ligature separated from the femoral artery, and secondary bleeding in a great stream immedi- ately ensued. It was soon arrested by digital compression, and did not recur ; but, meanwhile, the patient had lost so much blood that he could not be made to rally, and he died, eight hours after the separation of the ligature and the occurrence of the hemorrhage. Autopsy All of the stump had firmly united by adhesion, excepting a small part around and in front of the end. of the stump-bone. The end of the femoral artery was patqlous, not contracted, and without evidence of any effort on the part of the repara- tive processes of nature to occlude it. It was embraced by the forked extremity of an osteophyte which, springing from the linea aspera, extended horizontally inward along the angle of junction of the flaps. The femoral vein was well sealed up. The medullary tissue of the stump-bone was inflamed, being dark-red in color and of firm consistence, or hepatized, and contained a great number of abscesses which varied in size from that of a pin-head to that of a split pea. This case is fully reported in the volume of U. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, which was prepared by the author, pp. 358, 359. (7) Secondary hemorrhages very often occur from the distal orifices of severed or ligated arteries, and they result from the imperfect closure of these orifices, the proximal orifices being at the same time well sealed up. During our late civil war many examples of injured arteries were observed, in which there occurred during the secondary period a fatal hemorrhage from the distal end of the divided or ligated vessel. There was an occlusive coagulum on the cardiac side of the ligature; a non-occlusive coagulum, or, in some in- stances, even no clot at all, on the distal side. Several cases have already been mentioned in which secondary hemorrhage occurred from the distal portion of wounded or ligatured arteries. In the following example, which occurred during the late civil war, there was no clot whatever in the distal portion of the carotid artery, while the cardiac portion was securely plugged:— Private H. Hutchins, aged 25, was wounded on December 9, 1864, by a conoidal ball, which entered the chin, fractured the lower jaw, and emerged at the back of the neck. On the 18th, violent hemorrhage occurred from the mouth ; it was supposed to proceed from the lingual artery, and left the patient almost pulseless. The common carotid was ligatured just above the omo-hyoid muscle. The patient did very well until the 27th, when hemorrhage occurred in the wound of operation, from the distal portion of the artery and the deep jugular vein, and he died on the same day. Necro- scopy showed an organized clot below the ligature ; no clot had formed above the liga- ture, and the internal jugular vein was opened from sloughing of its tunics.1 The clot which forms on the cardiac side of a ligature is usually much larger than that clot which forms on the distal side, and sometimes the distal clot is wholly wanting, as happened in the instance just related. When arteries of some magnitude are wounded, and the distal ends are not tied, hemorrhage by regurgitation is very apt to occur, as was observed in the following instance of gunshot lesion of the brachial artery :>— A soldier was wounded at Fair Oaks May 31, 1862, by a ball which passed through the posterior part of the upper arm without injury to the bone, but caused an extensive ecchymosis. On June 4, he was admitted to general hospital. On the 10th, free arterial hemorrhage occurred; on removing the clots, the wounded parts were found extensively disorganized, and the brachial artery not accessible. The axillary was then tied high up, and the subscapular also, to prevent subsequent trouble. On the 21st both ligatures came away; feeble pulsations in the radial artery were observed. On the 23d very profuse hemorrhage from the brachial again occurred, which was stopped by compres-