INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES, 564 Sometimes it is an amyelinic axis-cylinder which appears, soon dividing into a Y, and each of its branches being surrounded with myelin, and giving origin to two nerve-fibres. At other times three myelinic fibres are ap-> pended tq the convexity of the same constriction. Finally, the same nerves fibre, by a series of dichotomous divisions, paay produce twenty, thirty, or forty new fibres. These fibres penetrate into the cicatricial segment, where they appear, colored by osmic acid, as a skein of tangled threads. The nerve-fibres, when separated, form a considerable number of small fasciculi, or are mingled in varying number with fibres of Remak and myelinic fibres, The latter be-, come more numerous as the time of section becomes more distant; but it cannot be admitted, according to Ranvier, that there is a transformation of Remak’s fibres into myelinic fibres. Finally, when the peripheral segment is examined by dissection, there are seen among the sheaths of Schwann, completely emptied and folded upon themselves, other sheaths containing in their interior one, tw'o, or even ten or twelve myelinic fibres of new formation. These new fibres are formed of very short interannular segments, each provided with a nucleus; they thep constitute perfect nerve-fibres, but excessively small. All these new fibres are not contained in the old sheaths of Schwann ; some penetrate into their interstices, rolling themselves around them, or spreading out freely, sometimes in rectilinear fasciculi with more or less frequent Y divisions, and sometimes in a confused and inextricable network. Thus, according to both Ranvier and Waller, the regeneration of nerves is due to a budding of the nerve-fibres remaining in connection with the cem tres, the fibres of new formation traversing the cicatrix in order to reach the peripheral end, where they are developed either in the interior of the old sheaths of Schwann or in their interstices. The duration of this process of repair is very variable. In the rabbit, the regeneration begins as early as the twentieth day. But it is only about the beginning of the third month that the effects are sufficiently well marked to be successfully studied; the repair is complete about the beginning of the sixth month. The above are the phenomena produced in animals as the result of a simple section. Is it the same with nerve-wounds in man ? This is very probable, if the wound is clean-cut, if the nerve-ends are but little separated, and if neither attrition nor very violent inflammation results from the traumatism. Neuritis, however, is not as rare an occurrence as it has been deemed. It is evident that if the interfascicular tissue of the nerve become inflamed, the pro- cess of regeneration will be inevitably arrested. Now there are cases in which the proliferation of the connective-tissue elements in the interstices of the nerve-fibres becomes very abundant, and there may result a true cirrhosis of the nerve. It is very important that this epineuritis, described by Erb, should be recognized; if it only affects the peripheral end, it is even then very grave, since it entirely or partly prevents the re-establishment of the functions of the nerve; if it extends to the central end, and ascends towards the centres, it may have consequences to which we shall have occasion to refer hereafter. Functional and Trophic Disturbances Consecutive to Injuries op Nerves.—Among the disturbances which follow traumatisms of nerves, there are two great classes to be distinguished. In the first, we place the symptoms which are the direct consequence of the nerve injury, and which result from the separation of the nerve from its central connections: these are 'peripheral disturbances, properly speaking; in the other we place the re?