9 PSEUDO-HYPERTROPHIC PARALYSIS. tory muscles, or exhaustion, or associated gangrene from pressure, brings on a fatal termination, which is the almost certain result of the disease. Occasionally it has been found to be, not, as usually, chronic, hut acute—rapid atrophy and early death occurring. Originally believed by the majority of pathologists to be primarily a myositis (and Friedreich has of late main- tained the same theory of its nature), it is to-day generally recognized as originally a nerve lesion, the anterior portion of the spinal cord being the seat of the trouble. The muscular disturbance is one of inflammation, chronic in the great majority of cases, very rarely, as we have seen, acute ; the myo- sitis causing interstitial and fatty degeneration of the muscular elements, sometimes associated with proliferation of the connective tissue. As this is a disease of middle life, so also is it one of the male sex, which is much more frequently affected than the female; and a strong hereditary influence has been observed in many cases. While perhaps not consequent upon them, its development is certainly favored by the existence of diseases attended with exhaustion, and dyscrasise, such as syphilis, lead-poisoning, etc. How much influence in its production is exerted by over-use, still remains a question. Cases have been observed in which the starting-point seemed to have been muscular injuries, crushings, etc. In the rare cases in which the lower extremities have been first involved, the disease has been observed usually in young subjects, and a pseudo-hypertrophic condition has been found associated with it. The diagnosis of progressive muscular atrophy, at least when the disease is well developed, is easy. The peculiar wasting and the gradual progress, associated as it often is with fibrillary contractions, either occurring sponta- neously or developed by slight blows, and the later, contracted condition of the muscles, with resulting deformities, such as the characteristic “ griffed” hand, present an aggregation of symptoms which cannot be mistaken. At times, owing to an increase of the development of fat, atrophic deformity may be for a time masked. The prognosis is exceedingly grave, a fatal ter- mination occurring in the great majority of instances. Infantile Paralysis.—In this affection, belonging as its name indicates to the earlier years of life, there are observed much the same changes as in pro- gressive muscular atrophy. It is a disease, however, not only of childhood, but one which is ordinarily acute, the paralytic condition of the muscles developing at first, frequently in the course of a few hours, or, at most, days, and the atrophy, which is usually simple, or, at times, associated with fibrous or fatty degeneration, quickly manifesting itself, having been observed as early as the fifteenth day, though commonly not for a month or two. The seat of the lesion has been very satisfactorily determined, and has been shown to be in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, there being a primary poliomyelitis with destruction of the cells. Here, as in progressive muscular atrophy, deformity, especially located in the lower extremities, is produced, and this deformity usually brings the case sooner or later under the care of the sur- geon. The special management of these cases belongs properly to the depart- ment of orthopaedic surgery, and will be considered in another part of the work. In very many cases, however, by early recognition of the disease and the institution of proper treatment (and of this the use of electricity is the most important element), the muscular wasting may be arrested, and partial, if not complete, restoration of the functional integrity secured. Pseudo-IIypertrophic Paralysis.—This curious affection, which is also a disease of early life, in many respects strongly resembles progressive mus- cular atrophy and infantile paralysis. It differs from the former mainly in