DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION OF ANEURISM. 377 considerable, distance between the walls of the vessel, separating, as it were dissecting, one coat frond another, or the two layers of the middle coat from each other. For a certain time, therefore, there is but one foramen of commu- nication with the area of the vessel, but after a while the blood usually perfo- rates the outer coverings and becomes effused; or may, making another breach in the internal tunics, find its way back into the circulation. This form of disease is almost confined to the aorta; but one or two examples have been seen to spread thence into the large branches springing from its arch. Arterio-Venous Aneurism.—When any of these aneurisms communicates with a vein by an interparietal breach, the condition becomes “arterio-venous aneurism,” which is of two sorts ; when the opening is immediate, with no interposed cavity, the disease is “Aneurismal Varix.” When a cavity, blood-filled and circumscribed, opens into both vein and artery, “Varicose Aneurism” is the term employed. Racemose or Cirsoid Aneurism and Aneurism by Anastomosis are dilata- tions of numerous and smaller branches, either supplied by one, or more com- monly by more than one, vessel. The dilatation extends to what normally are minute ramifications, even capillaries, and affects not only the circum- ference, but the length of the vessels, which are therefore tortuous. The tumors consist of congeries of convoluted and irregularly dilated vessels twisting and freely anastomosing through a certain district of thinned and softened tissue.1 Diffused Aneurism.—Any of the above forms of aneurism may, by rup- ture or erosion through some part of the sac wall, permit a greater or less escape of blood into the neighboring tissues; it is then called “diffused.” We must in this place make a clear distinction : a sacculated aneurism often grows so rapidly that, at a portion of its periphery, all the arterial tunics incapable of such wide dilatation have given way, and a portion of the sac is formed by the adjacent tissues thickened by previous pressure, with perhaps inflammation, and reinforced by the coagulation of blood which has infil- trated among them. Bone, muscle, fascia, etc., may thus form a portion of the sac; but be it observed that there is a sac: the blood is eneapsuled. On the other hand, it sometimes happens that the sac, however formed, gives way more completely, and permits the effusion of blood without limit among the tissues. The former condition is properly called a consecutive aneurism (Broca); the latter is often termed a diffuse aneurism; it is said to have become diffuse. I think that the term should be limited to small effusions slowly produced, and that the name “ ruptured aneurism” would better repre- sent the large and sudden outflow of blood which sometimes occurs. It may be gathered from the above, that a diffuse aneurism may, if not too large, become re-encapsuled by coagulation of its outer portion, and by in- flammatory thickening of the surrounding tissues. An arterial wound, for instance, may pour out a certain quantity of blood into the tissues; the skin opening may be closed by nature or art, while pressure may check the bleeding; the effused blood after a time becomes eneapsuled, and the result is a traumatic consecutive aneurism. The term traumatic diffuse aneurism, applied to a wounded or ruptured vessel filling the whole neighborhood with limitless (not eneapsuled) blood, is evidently a misnomer; some sort of sac is inherent to the idea aneurism, and what has been so injudiciously named as above, is a wounded or ruptured This subject is treated of in the article on Diseases of the Vascular System.