INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 588 panied, by the formation of products of the metamorphosis of the nervous system, and by their influence upon the latter. What is the seat of neuralgia ? “ To what kind of lesion of the nervous system are” neuralgias “ due,” says Yulpian; “ where are these lesions located ? Are we concerned with a congestion, or with an inflammatory irritation of the affected nerve ? Is it the nerve itself which is altered ? Is it its peripheral extremity? Is it its central extremity? Is it the nerve-centre? While neuralgias,” he adds, “ have, according to various pathologists, their ordinary seat at the periphery of the nerves, or in a more or less extended portion of the nerve-trunk, I believe that, in a large number of cases, the alteration which causes these affections resides in the central extremities of the nerves; most frequently, perhaps, in the spinal cord or in its membranes.” Two theories, in fact, have been proposed on the subject of the localization of neuralgias:— (1) The central theory, which is sustained by Yulpian, who would place the lesions of neuralgia in the spinal cord, or in its membranes; and by Anstie, who admits in every neuralgia a lesion of the sensory roots of the nerves in their intra-spinal course, and of their gray nuclei, etc.; and (2) The peripheral theory, sustained by Axennfeld and Huchard, according to which neuralgias have their seat in certain only of the sensory fibres which compose the nerve-branches, and occupy the entire length ot some isolated points of their course. In a great number of cases the seat of the pain is real and not virtual; that is to say, the pain is produced in the very places where the patients feel it, and is not simply felt as if it were produced there. But, nevertheless, the spinal cord plays a part in the production and gener- alization of neuralgic pains, and in the development of peripheral, painful irradiations. The lesions, from being peripheral at the beginning, may become central, as we have already seen in regard to neuritis. The painful excitations originating from the periphery and from the diseased nerves, reach the spinal cells—sensory nuclei of Clarke’s columns (Pierret)—and by their intervention determine these multiple irradiations. Finally, the spinal cord intervenes directly in trophic disturbances and in vaso-motor palsies. The discovery of the recurrent fibres has thrown a new light upon this sub- ject. It explains why the influence of the sensory nerves extends beyond their anatomical zone of distribution; any particular region may be con- nected with others by several nerve-trunks or branches, owing precisely to the existence of these fibres ascending in the course of neighboring trunks. It was thus that, in one case, Tripier relieved a neuralgia of the ulnar nerve by compressing the musculo-cutaneous. This also accounts for the failure of certain neurotomies. Finally, Cartaz explains by the recurrent fibres, both the existence of the points douloureux and the seat of neuralgias. Indeed, according to the inves- tigations of Arloing and Tripier, the recurrent fibres on the face, for example, stop below the bony foramina, to expend themselves in the neighboring tissues, blow, these points, provided with a rich nervous network, corre- spond precisely with the points douloureux of Yalleix. According to Cartaz, certain so-called functional neuralgias are caused by peripheral neuritis of the nerve-trunks, filaments, or terminal networks. In conclusion, the three following propositions, established by Huchard, may be admitted:— (1) Certain neuralgias are primarily peripheral in their seat, and remain always peripheral during their whole evolution. (2) Others may be primarily peripheral, and become central secondarily. (3) Others, finally, are primarily central.