WOUNDS OF VEINS. 203 tion in the wounded vein. The femoral artery was ligatured, in the case related above, about the year 1842, almost twenty years in advance of the famous advice of Langenbeck to the same effect, for suppressing hemorrhage from wounds involving large veins. The axillary vein, in rare instances, has been ruptured during attempts to reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint:— Froriep reported the first case : A scrofulous subject, aged 26, was found, twenty days after the accident, to have sustained a dislocation of the shoulder. At a second attempt at replacement, two distinct sounds were heard, and the dislocation became reduced; but, at the same moment, an axillary swelling appeared. The swelling rapidly increased. The patient fainted twice, vomited, went to stool, and expired one hour and a half after the reduction. The axillary cavity was found full of blood, and the axillary vein broken almost ‘entirely across. Its coats were very weak above and below the rupture.1 A second case belonging to the same category happened to Flaubert, in 1827. Some years ago, the late Mr. Price2 3 was reducing, at the Great Northern Hospital, an old dislocation at the shoulder of an aged female, when the axillary vein, as was subse- quently ascertained, was torn across, the patient dying on the following day. The artery was not ruptured. This made the third case. In 1863, a fourth case occurred to Hailey. In 1873, Professor Agnew observed and recorded & fifth case. A woman, aged 60, had a dislocated right shoulder of six weeks’ standing. Steady and persevering extension was exerted for several minutes while an assistant’s hand was held in the axilla to guide the head of the bone toward the glenoid cavity. A swelling suddenly appeared in the right pectoral region, distending in an instant the entire breast, ren- dering it exceedingly prominent, and forming a firm but fluctuating tumor. The patient instantly became cold and collapsed; respiration ceased, and the pulse could not be felt. The subclavian artery was compressed, the tongue drawn forward, and cold douches, ammonia, artificial respiration, etc., tried. The patient rallied, and on relaxing the pressure it was found that the radial pulse on that side was just as strong as on the other. The tumor was not tense and distended, and did not seem filling with any force. Com- presses were firmly applied, with warmth externally and stimulants internally. The swelling slowly extended backward, but did not become more tense. In ten days she was discharged.® Rupture of the axillary vein is more deadly than even rupture of the axillary artery. Of the five examples, Dr. Agnew’s was the only one which ended in recovery. I have related it with considerable minuteness, in order to illustrate the symptoms and treatment of this accident. In some rare instances the axillary artery and vein are simultaneously ruptured during efforts to reduce old dislocations of the shoulder-joint. The chief danger in all these cases is that which arises from the subtegumentary bleeding; and unless adequate measures to restrain it are instantly taken, the patient will succumb to it. These measures are; (1) To compress the subclavian artery against the first rib ; (2) to place an extemporized tourniquet, for instance, a handkerchief, around the upper end of the arm; (3) to confine the arm to the side of the chest with a firm bandage. In cases where the artery and vein are both ruptured, should the extravasation of blood happily be restrained from the first, and should the patient happily escape the perils which are denoted by the symptoms of shock and collapse, primary amputation of the arm at the shoulder-joint should be performed. The great venous trunks may be ruptured in railway accidents, as hap- pened in the following instance where the subclavian was involved:— Valentine K., commissary department, was caught between the buffers of two railway cars July 20, 1863. The humerus, clavicle, and scapula were fractured, and the neigh- 1 Malgaigne, Traite des Fractures, etc., t. ii. p. 151. 2 St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. pp. 107,108. 3 Philadelphia Medical Times, Aug. 16, 1873.