ANEURISM. '390 parts which lie out of the most rapid current; hence, those with small mouths have cceteris paribus the most of such lining, which, being deposited from the blood by successive acts of solidification,1 is laminated and marked by concentric lines. Broca called this material “active clot.” We shall see, by and by, that aneurisms may by the accumulation of such coagulum be spontaneously cured; that upon the induction of such accumulation our suc- cessful treatment is founded; and that, in certain cases, the choice of methods is to be guided by an estimate of the quantity of such clot which nature has already deposited in the sac. Moreover, it is noteworthy that a lining of firm, resilient fibrin acts against the force of the blood as a species of buffer, protecting the proper wall of the tumor, and preventing, according to its thickness, further disterision and rupture. All aneurisms which are thus lined, and in so far protected, progress—if nothing modify the conditions— more slowly than those in which no active clot is formed. The Sac oe an Aneurism may consist entirely of the arterial coats, all three being present in the fusiform variety, unless it be unusually large, while in the sacculated, unless merely incipient, both the inner and middle coats are deficient throughout a large part of the tumor. In many cases, however, all three coats have over a certain extent given way. The sac is then formed in part by laminated fibrin, in part by surrounding structures. Many thoracic aneurisms, which press against the parietes of the cavity, have for part of their sac the spine, the sternum, the ribs, or their cartilages. The stretched arterial tunics which enter into the formation of the sac are, in large aneu- risms, generally atheromatous, calcareous, or both. Sometimes even patches of true bone are found, but this is rare. Symptoms oe Aneurism. The symptoms of aneurism are some of them intrinsic, or direct; others extrinsic, or indirect. Intrinsic Symptoms are inherent qualities of the aneurism itself. If disease were strictly logical, we might describe them as necessary and integral parts of the malady, but since the body is not an exact machine, one or another of them may be absent. Extrinsic Symptoms are due to the influence of the aneurism on surrounding parts, and are chiefly referable to the effects of mechanical pressure. They vary, therefore, with the function of the part compressed. In certain localities ^ the intrinsic signs are not to be detected, or are greatly obscured by inclusion of the tumor within the more or less resistent walls of some cavity. In such cases the extrinsic signs may enable the surgeon to infer the presence of aneurism.2 Pulsation.—The most marked and characteristic sign of an aneurism, situated within reach of palpation, is the presence in the course of an artery of a pulsatile tumor. If the form of the swelling be elongated, and the throb extend over a narrowing space and with diminishing force, for a considerable distance up and down the limb, the aneurism is of the fusiform variety; if the tumor be round or oval, and clearly defined from its surroundings, while 1 The theory that this clot is a secretion from the vessels is sufficiently disproved by observing that in most cases it barely adheres to the inner wall of the sac. 2 Until lately, internal aneurisms, save a few abdominal cases, interested only the physician ; but recent advances, due chiefly to Dr. Cockle, Mr. Heath, Mr. Holmes, and myself, have placed thoracic aneurism within the pale of surgical treatment.