INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 296 scratching through the connective tissue which surrounds it, and push it upward out of the way. Fix the os hyoides by inserting a tenaculum into the digastric aponeurosis, then carefully insinuate the point of a ^director underneath the posterior margin of the hyoglossus muscle, and gently push Fig. 475. Ligation of the lingual artery. (S§dillot.) it along close to the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, so as to separate the hyoglossus from the middle constrictor of the pharynx which lies behind. Now divide the fibres of the hyoglossus muscle on the director, and the lingual artery accompanied by a vein will be brought into view. Pass the needle from above downward in order to avoid the hypoglossal nerve. Occasionally a few fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle must also be divided. Some surgeons gradually uncover this artery from before back- wards, by raising the fibres of the hyoglossus with a forceps, and incising them with a knife. But at every step of the operation, after opening the superficial fascia, the operator should shape his course by feeling for the great cornu of the os hyoides with a finger in the wound. Esmarch’s Operation.—(1) The cutaneous incision is 4 centimetres (about 1J inches) in length, along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. (2) The platysma is divided ; the posterior facial vein is drawn out- ward. (3) The posterior belly of the digastric muscle is exposed; behind and below it, appears the hypoglossal nerve; the submaxillary gland is drawn upward. (4) The hypoglossal nerve runs in front over the hyoglossus mus- cle, accompanied by the lingual vein; below the nerve and behind the hyo- glossus muscle passes the lingual artery. (5) Between the hypoglossal nerve and the great cornu of the hyoid bone the fibres of the hyoglossus are cau- tiously divided; immediately beneath this muscle lies the lingual artery, accompanied by a vein. Ligation of the lingual artery is one of the most difficult of all ligations; and, therefore, I have very attentively considered it. Esmarch lays down the steps with clearness and brevity. From the great freedom of inosculation, which exists between the two lingual arteries, it is often necessary to tie both of them to suppress hemorrhage from wounds of the tongue. Ligation of the Facial Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The facial artery is the third branch which issues from the front of the external carotid. It