INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 318 ment, to the middle whereof the middle of the wound should exactly corre- spond ; one or two vessels in the superficial fascia will probably require ligation. Next, the tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique should be raised and divided on a director, and then the lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles raised, when, on tearing through the fascia transversalis, the artery will be exposed near its origin. In passing the needle around the artery, be careful not to include its vena; comites. The circumflex iliac artery may be exposed and tied by the same incisions. After tearing through the transversalis fascia, it will be found running paral- lel with, and close to, Poupart’s ligament. Ligation of the Femoral Artery.— Surgical Anatomy.—The femoral artery descends the inner side of the thigh from the termination of the external iliac behind Poupart’s ligament, at a point mid- way between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis, to the opening in the adductor mag- nus, at the junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, where it be- comes the popliteal artery. The femoral artery and vein are inclosed in a strong sheath, the femoral or crural canal, which is formed to a great extent by aponeurotic and areolar tissue, and by a process of fascia, sent inward from the fas- cia lata. Near Poupart’s ligament, this sheath is much larger than the vessels it contains, and is continuous with the fascia transversalis and the iliac fascia. If the sheath he opened at this point, the artery will be seen to he situated in contact with the outer wall of the sheath. The femoral vein lies next the artery, but separated from it by a fibrous septum. Between the vein and the inner wall of the sheath, but sepa- rated from the vein by another thin fibrous sheath, there is a triangular space into which the sac is protruded in femoral her- nia. This space is occupied, in the normal state of the parts, by loose connective tis- sue and by lymphatic vessels, which pierce the inner wall of the sheath, to proceed to a gland situated in the femoral ring. Relations.—The upper third of the femo- ral artery is superficial, being covered only by the skin, the inguinal glands, and the superficial and deep fascise. The lower two- thirds is covered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer side, the artery is first in rela- tion with the psoas and iliacus, and then with the vastus internus. Behind, it rests upon the inner border of the psoas muscle; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein,, and pro- funda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus as far as its termi- nation. Near the lower border of the adductor longus it enters an aponeu- Showing the surgical anatomy of the femoral region. (S6dillot.)