424 ANEURISM. vessel; the assistants then change places, and the second undertakes the duty of watching the aneurism, while the first becomes the compressor, and so on, alternately, until it be necessary to call in the aid of the third assistant, or to make an entire change. Of course, the place of pressure must be occasionally shifted, if the anatomy of the part render such a change possible. Under all circumstances, the condition and behavior of the skin must be very carefully watched during the whole time, and signs of inflammatory complications among deeper parts must be looked for, any such condition negativing a con- tinuance of the treatment. Neither instrumental nor digital pressure need be kept up uninterruptedly * until the cure is complete or failure accepted. That method, called the con- tinuous, is for most patients unbearable, or at least very painful, and, if it last long, exhausting. The interrupted mode—sometimes termed, not very ele- gantly, discontinuous pressure—is far more supportable, and, to judge from records, quite as successful, though, of course, less rapidly so than the most fortunate examples of continuous pressure. As the name denotes, the treat- ment is carried on only during a certain number of hours of the day, the night generally being set aside for repose. While the instrument or fingers are oft* duty, the limb, if the position of the tumor be favorable, may be kept in flexion, or simply bandaged with a pad over the sac, to make slight direct pressure. Sometimes the treatment may be altogether suspended for several days, or longer, and then resumed. If the aneurism do not grow, and if the patient’s condition of health be such as to forbid more active measures, this treatment may be carried on at intervals for a very long time, and success be even thus ultimately attained. In one case of femoral aneurism (already quoted) which was treated by direct compression,1 the surgeon began with the use of weights, and afterwards substituted pressure with a pad and belt, and let the patient move about. After six years the tumor became solid, and the patient lived several years longer. Pressure, either instrumental or digital, may be used on the distal side of the tumor, as a mere adjuvant to proximal compression; or sometimes, as in aneurism low down on the carotid, as the only feasible method of treatment. Certain abdominal aneurisms may be dealt with in a similar manner, but with less chance of success, distal compression having less scientific applica- bility here than in the case of the undivided large trunk of the neck. It should never be employed on any other artery, save as a mere aid, if proximal pressure be possible. Rapid Pressure Method.—However employed, indirect pressure by the gradual method occupies a considerable time,2 and hence is, for many persons, inadmissible, while others will not submit to long and irksome treatment, the result of which is, to a considerable degree, uncertain. Again, some forms of aneurism, chiefly of the abdominal aorta, cannot be dealt with after this method. The sudden or rapid method of using compression was intro- duced by Dr. Murray, of Newcastle-on-Tyrie.3 The patient, a spare man, aged 26, was subjected to pressure, with a horse-shoe tourniquet, on the aorta, just below the margin of the left ribs, at first for two hours, without avail, and three days afterwards for five hours. During both periods anaesthesia was maintained. The pressure was such as to stop pulsation in the tumor, in the aorta below, and in the femorals at the groin. At the end of the second attempt the aneurism was found to beat much more feebly, and in a day or two it became completely consolidated. This rapid mode of compression has * Brown, Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1875. 2 Nineteen months is, I'believe, the longest period of treatment recorded, but seven, five, and four months are not infrequent. .» Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlvii. p. 187, 1864.