INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 82 Instruments Required for the Ligation of Arteries.—Much ingenuity has been exhibited in devising instruments for operating on wounded blood- vessels. Hence the surgeon is well equipped with those which are needed for tying the deep as well as the superficial arteries; also for securing them in particular regions, and in their continuity as well as in open wounds. When ligatures have to be applied to arteries in open wounds, as, for instance, after amputations, the mouth of each artery must be seized and drawn out from the tissues in which it is buried. For this purpose the tena- culum invented by Bromfeild, surgeon to St. George’s Hospital (Fig. 134, Yol. I. p. 575), is much used in America, and in many cases does extremely well. Some care, however, should be exercised in using it; for, it is liable to pierce other structures along with the artery, an accident which, in general, should be avoided ; and, inasmuch as it seizes an artery by perforating its walls, it has several times happened after its employment that dangerous, and, in one case at least, observed by Erichsen, fatal hemorrhage occurred from ulcera- tion of the artery where it had been accidentally punctured by the instru- ment above the part around which the ligature was applied. But the forceps in common use are, upon the whole, to be preferred as instruments for seizing and drawing out the ends of divided arteries, in order that ligatures may be put around them, in open wounds. There are several varieties of artery forceps, some having rat-toothed and others serrated points, some having narrow and others broad blades, while still others are fenestrated, each of which modifications offers peculiar advantages. For ordi- nary vessels, such as demand the ligature in common operations, an instrument like that represented in figure 372, is preferable. Its blades are long and slender, and fastened when closed with a spring-catch, while its points are fine and rat-toothed. Fig. 372. Spring-catch artery forceps. One of the simplest and best instruments for drawing out and holding the main artery of a limb to be tied in an open wound, is Langenbeck’s artery forceps. (Fig. 373.) Its points are serrated, and its blades can be fastened together by a button-slide. Moreover, the convexity of the instrument when closed facilitates the application of a ligature. Fig. 373. Langenbeck’s artery forceps. Another very useful instrument for the same purpose is Professor Hamil- ton’s modification of Liston’s artery forceps. (Fig. 374.) A serrated surface is placed behind the teeth at the end of the blades, by which their hold upon the artery is made more secure. With this instrument the surgeon can tie