629 ELONGATION OR STRETCHING OE NERVES. dence, in the fear of immediately fatal reflex effects, or of trophic disturb- ances, as in avulsion of the branches of the trifacial. It is evident that the mode of action(of nerve-elongation will he differ- ently understood, according as one or the other of the preceding views is adopted, and will be explained by a change in the nerve itself or in the ter- minal nerve-structures, but the majority of authors agree in recognizing that it most often acts by diminishing the conductibility of the nerve, and not by freeing it from adhesions or pathological sources of compression, as was at first believed. By what mechanism is the diminution of conductibility produced ? Is it due to compression of the medullary substance, to a modification of the electro- motor power of the nerve, and to a separation of the myelin and of its sheath (Valentin); to suppression of the elastic pressure of the sheath upon the nerve, or to disturbances of nutrition by vascular lacerations (Harless, Vogt); or must it be explained by an incomplete rupture, as it is by Verneuil, who has, substituted crushing for elongation ? The diminution of conductibility being admitted, the therapeutic action of elongation may, with Callender, be ex- plained by a kind of isolation of the nerve centres, which permits them to resume their normal action, previously disturbed by peripheral irritation. As to the direct influence of elongation upon the nerve centres, it appears to have been demonstrated by the physiological experiments which have been above referred to, but its nature is still unknown. Finally, in certain cases, it may be believed that elongation has acted as any traumatism. This opinion is sustained by a case reported by M. Berger to the Society of Surgery, in March, 1882—a case in which the opening of an abscess beneath the quadriceps femoris muscle caused the disappearance of the lightning pains of ataxia. To summarize: elongation acts at the same time upon the nerve centres and upon the nerve trunks submitted to traction, most frequently by dimin- ishing their sensory conductibility, probably by the mechanism of an incom- plete rupture; but it must be clearly recognized that this explanation does not account for all the facts, and notably for those where a pathological or experimental anaesthesia has disappeared under the influence of treatment. The minute study of new clinical and experimental facts, and the endeavor to determine the exact force employed in each case, will, no doubt, point the way to the true explanation of these phenomena. Clinical Results.—We have seen that, as regards the function of the nerve, elongation, when well performed, has but little influence over motility, and is never followed by persistent paralysis of movement, while, on the con- trary, the appearance of a lasting anaesthesia is indispensable to its therapeu- tic action, when it is directed, as is most frequently the case, against an exaggeration of the direct or reflex sensory-motor irritability of the nerves. We must now inquire what has been the action of this therapeutic agent upon the several affections for which it has been employed. The great majority of elongations have been practised in cases of neuralgia, and particularly of sciatic neuralgia, and often the disappearance of the pain has been obtained; unfortunately, the proportion of definitive recoveries can- not be exactly known, because most of the cases are published too short a time after the operation. Thus, Walsham, studying forty-eight cases of neuralgia, reported as cured by elongation,1 showed that neai’ly all had been published too soon. In fourteen of the cases, which he was able to trace, there were nine definitive recoveries and five relapses, following after intervals of from 1 British Med. Journal, December, 1S80.