SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 449 It nearly always occurs immediately, if, while swelling, the tumor also pul- sates pretty strongly. The treatment, therefore, of a sac suppurating after deligation, is to seize a favorable but early moment for incision. It never should be allowed to burst, lest, in the absence of skilled assistance, the patient die of hemorrhage. Heither should opening the tumor be hurried, or performed without due preparation, and without having such appliances in readiness as may be necessary for further measures. A tourniquet should be applied loosely above the sac, before the incision is made; on no account should the abscess be kneaded or pressed, after it is opened, but it should be simply covered with a cold wet cloth; if no bleeding follow in fifteen or twenty minutes, the patient may be left to. the cai’e of some well-instructed nurse or assistant, who should be instructed to screw the tourniquet home on the first appear- ance of bleeding. After the first twenty-four hours, the danger of hemor- rhage greatly diminishes, though as long as shreds of clot, purple or fleshy lumps, come away, absolute security is not attained. If a little bleeding follow the incision at once, or arise shortly afterwards, the finger should be gently introduced, and all the soft, broken-down matters which come away easily should be abstracted. A solution of carbolic acid, 5 per cent., mixed with an equal bulk of the liquor ferri perchloridi, may then be poured in, and after a few minutes the chasm left by the evacuated matters may be stuffed somewhat tightly with lint or tenax, while pressure is kept up by a bandage. If from the first or at any subsequent time the bleeding be more severe, the best practice is to empty the sac in the manner described in speaking of “ the old operation;” then, looking at the now naked wall, the surgeon must dis- cover the source of hemorrhage. This may be the vessel above or below, or some side channel opening laterally into the sac, or, again, the blood may come away from innumerable orifices after the manner of general oozing. In the last event some styptic, such as ice, the perchloride of iron, or the chloride of zinc, combined with direct pressure and the internal use of ergot—perhaps the actual cautery—may prove effectual. Proximal digital pressure should be tried while the wound is under watch, and if it check or greatly diminish the bleeding, may be used alone, or together with direct compression. If a distinct bleeding orifice be perceptible, the vessel leading to it should be tied with one of the ligatures that do not divide the arterial coats. This operation is, if the opening belong to the main vessel, precisely like the “ old operation” already described (p. 432); but if the bleeding spring from an en- larged collateral branch that runs into the sac from the depths of the limb, the procedure is even more difficult. It is presumed that the opening in the sac has been made wide enough to afford a good view, and therefore probably to give room for work. Into the bleeding orifice a probe must be passed, and around it, at a few lines’ distance, an incision should be made with the scalpel deep enough to give a good hold to a pair of forceps, which now can seize the parts around the bleeding orifice and permit a ligature to be thrown around them. If the part be very deep, however, this is impossible; but a thread of silk or hemp may be armed with semicircular needles at both ends, and with a needle holder each may be passed in a different direction half around the orifice, at a sufficient depth to insure that the thread entirely surrounds it. A second deligation nearer the sac may be attempted; especially if pres- sure so severe, or in such a situation, as to be insupportable for a sufficient length of time, be found to arrest the bleeding. If all fail, amputation is the only resource, and this should not be delayed until the patient is greatly vol. hi.—29