584 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. [See Vol. 1. p. 311. j the use of antiphlogistics, leeches—though at times their bites are very painful—subcutaneous injections of morphia, and purgatives. In chronic neuritis, which often resists treatment, besides rest of the limb, revulsives should be employed—blisters, applications of iodine, or the hot iron—with the use of diaphoretics, hydrotherapeutic measures—ice, cold baths, douches, vapor baths, turpentine baths, etc.—antispasmodics, narcotics, and finally the continued current. It is of the highest importance that the general state of the patient should be inquired into, and, if he is arthritic,1 as is frequently the case, that he should be given appropriate remedies in full doses. Neuralgia in General. The tendency to multiply operations upon nerves, particularly in neural- gias, requires the surgeon to have an exact knowledge of their symptoms and pathogeny, so that he may be able to determine the indications for ope- rative intervention. Neuralgia is a clinical syndrome, which belongs, indeed, to different mor- bid states of the nerves, of which some are not accompanied by any appre- ciable alteration, and of which others present various changes, too slightly marked for it to be possible to recognize them in the patient, or to classify them in other divisions of nerve pathology. Since the functional disturb- ances are the same, with the exception of some slight variations, in these different states, surgeons still join them together under the name of neuralgia, while at the same time endeavoring to discover all the signs which may per- mit their anatomical diagnosis to be established. This group is accordingly becoming smaller, with the progress of pathological anatomy and clinical analysis. We admit then three principal varieties of neuralgia, the symptomatic, the reflex, and the idiopathic. There is here no question except of the neu- ralgias of the nerves of animal function. Every pain is not a neuralgia. This is a sharp pain, spontaneous, occur- ring in paroxysms, remitting, and situated over the course of the nerves. Etiology of Neuralgia.—The causes of neuralgias may be divided into pre- disposing causes, general causes (the diathetic and dyscrasic causes of Hu- chard), and determining causes. (1) Predisposing Causes.—Neuralgias are exceptional during infancy, fre- quent from twenty to sixty years of age, and rare beyond this time of life. The female sex seems to furnish a predisposition, and heredity also plays a certain part, by giving to the descendants a constitution favorable to the development of neuralgia. Persons of a lymphatic, and those of a nervous temperament, are predisposed. Certain physiological states, such as men- struation and pregnancy, also predispose to neuralgias. Occupations which expose to sudden changes of heat and cold, damp and badly situated dwell- ings, and certain states of the atmosphere, are again predisposing causes. According to Weir Mitchell, the pains are rather connected with the lower- ing of the atmospheric pressure (in storms, for example), than with changes of temperature, but moisture of the atmosphere continues to be the most effective cause; the influence of atmospheric electricity is yet to be investi- gated. (2) General causes may give rise to neuralgias which are described by Hu- chard under the name of diathetic, dyscrasic, and toxic neuralgias; these