TREATMENT OF SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. 59 dissevered artery, just above the omo-hyoid muscle; that the hemorrhage occurred from rupture or spontaneous opening of the sac of this traumatic aneurism ; that the hemorrhage was not direct, but regurgitant in character, inasmuch as the escaping blood flowed backward, that is, toward the heart, through the distal portion of the artery; and that the hemorrhage could not have been arrested without tying it on the distal side of the wound. The ligation of the common carotid below the omo-hyoid muscle would, therefore, not have done any good, unless the vessel had at the same time been tied above or on the distal side of the wound and aneurism. The aneurism itself con- stituted a remarkable, and, as far as I know, a unique feature of this case, because it was developed from the distal end of the artery; and its occurrence can only be ex- plained on the assumption that the communication between the carotids and vertebrals through the circle of Willis was unusually free. Another case in which bleeding from an artery torn by gunshot was pre- vented by the bullet, has been reported by Dr. Dewitt C. Peters, U. S. Army.1 The right vertebral artery was extensively lacerated at the point where it passed through the foramen of the transverse process of the atlas; the hall resting there probably acted as a plug, and thus restrained hemorrhage. General Considerations Concerning the Treatment of Surgical Hemorrrhage. When the wounded vessel is superficial, that is, near the surface of the body, it is generally easy to determine that the blood issues from an artery rather than from a vein, by calling to mind the relative anatomy of the part, by actual inspection of the bleeding orifices, and by observing that the blood is bright-red and flows per saltum, instead of flowing in a continuous, dark-red stream. But, when the blood issues from deep-seated vessels whose positions correspond to both arteries and veins of considerable magnitude, it is not always so easy in practice, to determine from what vessels it proceeds. The admixture of arterial blood which must always flow to greater or less extent into the track of the wounds leading down to deeply-seated veins, may suffice to tinge the effusion with a brighter hue than that which belongs to venous blood; while on the other hand, the blood issuing from wounded arteries may rise to the surface mingled with much venous blood, and correspondingly darkened in color thereby. There are, too, various obstructions which often prevent, in deep wounds, the issue of blood from arteries in jets, synchronous with their pulsations; and when anaesthetics are freely administered, but especially when their administration is continued for considerable time, the color of the blood becomes greatly changed, so that in many instances the arterial cannot be distinguished by this test alone from the venous blood. Moreover, the blood which flows from the distal orifice in a severed artery is, ffor the most part, much darker than that which flows from the proximal orifice; and it often issues in a continuous stream from the distal orifice like that which flows from a wounded vein. In some cases, therefore, we cannot at the first glance determine the source of the bleeding. In such cases valuable aid may sometimes be derived from compressing the main artery firmly on the cardiac side of the wound. If the hemorrhage be arrested by this procedure, it is certain that the bleeding is arterial; but if the hemorrhage be increased by this procedure, it is equally certain that a wounded vein is the principal source of the bleeding. Some- times, however, from the presence of inflammation, or from want of room, or from some other cause, it happens that the main artery cannot be successfully American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1865, pp. 373, 374.