INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 254 some examples of this sort, wherein gangrene occurred, that have been related above, the collateral channels, both arterial and venous, were obstructed by pressure from oedematous and inflammatory swelling. The cerebral softening which sometimes follows deligation of the common carotid artery is usually anaemic gangrene of the brain. Treatment of Gangrene from Vascular Obstruction.—When wounds have been received, or when surgical operations have been performed, which are liable to cause anaemic gangrene, the treatment should be so conducted as to keep the collateral channels free from obstruction. When from any cause we ligature the principal vein as well as the principal artery of a limb, special care should be taken to cherish the collateral circulation, both at the time of and subsequent to the operation. The causal indications must always be met, as far as possible, by abating inflammatory and other swellings. Strangu- lating aponeuroses or fasciae should be divided by appropriate incisions. The old plan of treating gunshot wounds by dilating them with the knife, les- sened the liability to mortification. In some situations, as, for instance, at the bend of the knee, obliteration of the main artery, when it is attended with much injury of the surrounding parts, is so sure to be followed by gangrene as to make primary amputation advisable. In gangrene from the occlusion of bloodvessels, no line of separation, as a rule, is formed. There is, therefore, nothing to prevent the flow of putrid blood and other products of decomposition from the mortified part into the rest of the organism. Hence arise the great risk of septicaemia and the great fatality in these cases. Hence, too, amputation should be performed not very far below the site of the vascular lesion, as soon as gangrene appears. Early amputation, likewise, affords the only means of preventing the gases which result from decomposition in the gangrenous part, from entering the veins and passing on to the right side of the heart, thus causing sudden death, as happened in several cases reported by M. Parise,1 which I have already mentioned in speaking of air in veins. Antiseptic precautions during, and antiseptic treatment after, the operation are of great importance. Hemophilia, or the Hemorrhagic Diathesis. This disease is attended with a remarkable propensity to bleed, on very slight or even without any apparent provocation. Hence those subject to it have been familiarly called bleeders. Definition.—Haemophilia may be defined as a congenital and habitual dis- position to the occurrence of hemorrhage. The extremely obstinate and dangerous hemorrhages for which bleeders are noted, usually begin in the very earliest years of life, and habitually recur. It is very uncommon for this peculiar hemorrhagic habit to originate in middle life so as to warrant us in regarding the disposition as acquired. It is equally uncommon for one who was a marked bleeder in infancy, and in whom the disposition was congenital, to completely lose the idiosyncrasy in early youth, and remain thereafter free from hemorrhagic attacks. In fact, the congenital origin and habitual nature of the disposition are so constantly observed together in the so-called bleeders* that although each of these attributes is doubtless important by itself, it is 1 Archives Gen. de Med., Novembre, 1880.