INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 610 (2) Nervous Theory.—The primary irritation has been located in the mus- cles or in the extremities of the nerves themselves. Forbes explains it by an excess in the production of creatin and lactic acid in consequence of an exaggerated muscular degeneration, which is itself dependent upon an excessive nervous activity which he leaves unexplained. The advocates of the theory of the primary irritation of the extremities of the nerves, admit that this may be produced in the wound in a variable and often undetermined manner, and they have to sustain them a certain number of cases where this cause is unquestionable (foreign bodies, defective cicatrices), and where the success of neurotomy, of amputation, or of incision of a cicatrix, has dis- tinctly demonstrated its action. Whatever may be, however, the theory that is adopted, in view of the great number of wounds and causes of chilling, and of the rarity of tetanus, we are obliged to consider the appearance of this affection as dependent upon an individual predisposition, impossible to ascertain or even to suspect before- hand. The irritation, once transmitted to the spinal cord by the nerves or the vessels, determines there an increase of reflex power, which betrays itself only secondarily by morphological lesions appreciable by our means of ex- ploration. The mechanism of this increase of reflex power of the spinal cord is yet disputed, some regarding it simply as increased functional activity, while by others it is thought due to paralysis of the moderator centres of reflex action, of which Yulpian contests the existence, or, finally, as believed by Ringer and Murrell, to a diminution of the resistance of the spinal cord, this word designating a force which tends to locate peripheral stimuli in a given segment of the cord, and to regulate the nervous discharge. This excitation of the spinal cord is manifested clinically by two sets of symptoms, the one constant—the more or less generalized muscular contrac- tion—and the other inconstant and variable, the increased temperature, as to the pathogenesis of which authors have expressed different opinions. Its production has been attributed to asphyxia, which it often precedes for some time—to the presence of a complication which is not met with in every case where an elevation of temperature is observed—and to a septic change in the blood, in favor of which its existence is an argument. A view more attractive at first sight, is that maintained by Muron, which explains the high tem- peratures of tetanus by the heat liberated by the muscles in tonic contraction; but, apart from the fact that a generalized tetanus may not be accompanied by an elevation of temperature, the highest temperatures are not always coin- cident with the paroxysms in the same patient, and are not proportional in different patients to the intensity and to the generalization of the muscular contractions. Finally, this hypothesis does not explain the elevation that is sometimes seen after death, and which may, according to Wunderlich and Leyden, exceed 2.5° C. (4.5° Fahr.). There remains a view which seems acceptable, and which makes the in- crease of temperature depend upon the exaggerated spinal activity itself, which produces it by accelerating beyond measure the interstitial combus- tions ; these may in certain cases maintain the impulse which is given to them, so to speak, and may continue to elevate the temperature some time after death. A very useful element of this investigation would be a thorough knowledge of the modifications of the blood and urine in tetanic patients, of which unfortunately very little is yet known. To summarize: tetanus should be considered as a pathological reflex state, having for its point of origin a periphei’al irritation of undetermined nature; for its actual condition, an exaggerated functional activity of the spinal