674 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. before been successfully reduced, and that therefore no blame can attach to the surgeon in case permanent deformity results from the after treatment not having been properly carried out by the patient. Dislocation of the Head of the Radius Backward.—This accident is rather rare. Causes.—Direct blows upon the front and upper end of the bone, and falls by which a similar impulse is given to it, as when a person falls upon his hand, are the usual causes of the injury. Symptoms.—The head of the bone, as in forward luxations, can be detected in the position indicated by the description of the injury, that is, back of its normal place upon the external condyle, while over and in front of the latter, a vacancy exists, caused by the disappearance of the radial head from its articular facet. The forearm, as in other dislocations of the elbow, is slightly flexed. It is said to incline to the prone position, and is bent more outward than natural, on account of the upward slipping of the radius, thus shortening the radial side. Flexion and extension, as wrell as supination, are very limited. Treatment.—The opinions of authors are somewhat at variance as to the best means of reducing this luxation, and in fact it is not strictly necessary to pursue a uniform method. The following plan will accomplish the re- duction as well as any that can be devised: Let an assistant seize the wrist and make traction, at the same time supinating the member strongly, while the surgeon with his thumbs and fingers presses the bone into position. Dislocation of the Head of the Radius Outward.—It is doubtful whether this dislocation ever occurs primarily, or whether it is always secondary to the anterior or posterior form. The method of reduction is by making ex- tension upon the forearm as before, and then pressing the bone toward its place. Dislocations of the Upper End of the Ulna.—It is denied by some that an anterior dislocation of the ulna can ever occur'without fracture of the olecranon, but one or two cases are recorded which seem veritable. Extreme violence must be supposed to cause this injury, and the destruction of the ligaments is necessarily such that the bones may lie in almost any position. Practically, dislocations of the ulna occur in three directions, viz., backward, inward, and outward. As to whether the ulna alone can be displaced backward, there is a good deal of contradictory testimony. The weight of evidence seems to show that in rare instances this has occurred, leaving the head of the radius still secure upon the external condyle. The treatment is in all details the same as when both bones are displaced. Dislocations of the Radius and Ulna Backward.—The most frequent cause of this accident is found in falls upon the hand. Symptoms.—Both radius and ulna are found back of the lower end of the humerus, so far as to allow the coronoid process of the ulna to be hooked be- hind the condyles, and to rest in the olecranon fossa, being drawn upward by the tension of the triceps muscle. The elbow is bent at an obtuse angle. The anterior and lateral ligaments are more or less torn, but the posterior part of the capsule is intact. The brachialis anticus and biceps muscles are often lacerated. The median nerve is often compressed, as shown by the numb- ness below. The ulnar nerve also is sometimes affected. As to whether the hand is pronated or supinated, authors make very contradictory statements.