PARONYCHIA AND FELON. 19 rather than in women—as might naturally he expected, since it is of traumatic origin. Treatment, other than operative, is seldom of any benefit. Rest, massage, blisters, sulphur-baths, and pressure, are occasionally of advantage, and irri- tant injections at times cause a disappearance in part, or wholly, of the granu- lations, though usually all of these methods of treatment result only in failure. If the disease has not progressed so far as to necessitate amputation, or if the tendon itself is not so buried and fused in the fungous masses that it cannot be dissected out, these masses must be thoroughly cut or scraped away; with antiseptic precautions, such operations are attended with but little risk to either life or limb. Partial removal of the diseased tissue is sure to he followed by early re-development of the trouble; consequently, if amputation is not required, and if complete extirpation cannot be effected, a simple com- pressing bandage should be worn, and further interference abstained from. Paronychia and Felon.—As the result of injury, often of slight degree, such as a pinch, a scratch, or a needle prick, affecting a finger, and especially the palmar surface of a distal division, inflammation is developed, located outside the investing deep fascia, in the tendinous sheath, or in the periosteum and phalanx—or, as is more usually the case, wherever originating,involving all the parts through extension by contiguity, as also by direct continuity, since the layers of tissue from bone to skin are here united by fibrous threads passing through the interstices of the cribrillated periosteum, up and into the under surface of the derm. This anatomical constitution, which is peculiar to the region under consideration, however advantageous in limiting the movement of the skin and thus insuring accuracy of touch, is very favorable to the rapid extension of inflammation, and is unquestionably the cause of the frequent severe results that follow the slight injuries already referred to. Wherever situated, and usually it is primarily in the superficial fascia, the pain attending these finger inflammations is very severe, the tension decided, and the swelling great. Suppuration early takes place, and the pus may be located superficially, as it is in the milder cases, or about and beneath the sheath of the tendon. When the latter is involved, the tenosynovitis rapidly extends upwards, and if not arrested by treatment passes along the entire length of the sheath, to near the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation in the index, middle, and ring fingers, into the palmar subfascial bursa when the little finger is the seat of the disease, and above the wrist when the thumb is the part affected. Such extension is indicated by the degree and location of the pain, by swelling over the course of the tendon, by inflammatory changes in the over-lying skin, and by constitutional disturbances of high grade. Gfreat increase in the severity of the symptoms, with throbbing, mark the formation of pus. Unless promptly relieved, and not always even then, necrosis of the tendon is very apt to follow, and if the diseased part is saved at all, it is so in only a very damaged condition. Periostitis and osteitis occur in a large proportion of cases, with frequent destruction of the phalanx, even when proper treatment is early instituted and thoroughly carried out. Oftentimes, in consequence, we must assume, of some outside influence, atmospheric or otherwise, these violent and destructive finger inflammations occur epidemically. In the very commencement of the affection, the continued application of hot water, painting with the tincture of iodine, the use of a blister, or com- pression, best made by the elastic bandage, may arrest the inflammation. If such measures fail, as they are very apt to do, a full, free, deep incision must be made—such an incision not only relieving tension and permitting the escape of pus, if formed, but being of service also by the local depletion pro-