182 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. divided by the projectile. Both ends of the vessel were securely ligatured, and the hemorrhage did not recur. May 26—A slight recurrent pulse can be felt in the radial artery. June 16—The wound of operation has healed, but purulent matter has exten- sively burrowed among the muscles of the forearm, necessitating an incision about six inches long to relieve the burrowing. Pyaemia supervened, and, on July 2, the patient died of pyaemic pneumonia. The autopsy showed visceral abscesses in the lungs, liver, etc. Two additional cases in which the brachial artery was divided in wounds made by musket-balls, are recorded in the U. S. Sanitary Commission’s Surgical Memoirs, vol. i. In one of them the missile struck the left arm near the junction of the upper and middle thirds, severed the artery, and shattered the humerus for four inches; for a moment or two the bleeding was profuse, but it ceased spontaneously. The arm was amputated, two inches below the head of the humerus, four hours after the casualty. The patient recovered. In the other case, the ball passed through the anterior and inner aspect of the right arm, and directly across the course of the brachial artery. When brought to the field hospital there was no pulsation at the wrist; sensation and motion were impaired. There had been no hemorrhage excepting slight capillary oozing. No pulsa- tion was detected by passing a finger into the wound. The shock was very great, with tendency to syncope. No secondary bleeding occurred, and the patient got well without giving much trouble.1 In neither of these three cases of complete division of the brachial artery hy musket-halls was the primary hemorrhage excessive. It was suppressed in each instance, also, with great promptitude, by the processes of nature.. Arteries of medium calibre, that is, belonging to the next subdivision after the brachial, very often, perhaps generally, cease spontaneously to bleed when completely divided in wounds made by musket-balls, etc., as happened with the internal epigastric arteries in the following instance:— A prisoner of war was shot by the guard while attempting to escape. The bullet went into one inguinal region and emerged from the other, cutting through the entire abdominal wall, from side to side, about half an inch above the pubis. It severed the epigastric artery on either side (the ends were visible), and produced a gaping wound about eight inches in length, plainly exposing the pelvic viscera. There appears to have been no bleeding. Three weeks afterward the patient was returned from the hos- pital, convalescent, to the military prison.2 But the bleeding does not always cease spontaneously in such cases, as the following example shows:— Private A. Y., Co. D, 23d Infantry, received a severe gunshot wound of the wrist- joint, in a skirmish with Indians, April 29, 1868. The radial artery, being lacerated, was ligated above and below the seat of injury, and water dressings were applied to the wound. In July, 1868, the patient returned to duty.3 The observations presented above show that gunshot wounds dividing large arteries are not only very dangerous, but also destroy life in certain deter- minate ways, the principal of which are primary hemorrhage, secondary hemorrhage, and consecutive gangrene. Gangrene ensues after such wounds much oftener than many suppose; I have presented eight examples of it, five of which passed under my own observation, and have seen several other examples of which unfortunately I did not take notes. As this subject (traumatic gangrene) possesses much importance in this connection, I have taken some pains to collate Guthrie’s experience concern- ing gangrene following gunshot wounds of bloodvessels. It appears that he saw seven cases belonging to this category in military practice. Iu three of 1 Op. cit., pp. 69, 70. 2 Med. and Surg. History of tlie War, Second Surg. Vol., p. 175. * Circular No. 3, S. G. O., pp. 237, 238.