TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. 91 made of the tendon or sinew of the deer, when he expects union by the first intention; they were originally suggested by Dr. John Bellinger, of Charles- ton, South Carolina.”1 Dr. McSweeny, of Cork, recommended the gut of the silkworm for liga- tures ; and Sir Astley Cooper at one time used catgut for the same purpose. He tied the femoral artery successfully with this kind of thread in a case of popliteal aneurism. But notwithstanding these successes, the animal liga- ture soon fell into disuse, and was remembered only as a historical curiosity. To Mr. Lister is undoubtedly due the honor of having reintroduced the animal ligature into surgical practice; and he has shown that catgut, when properly prepared, possesses all the advantages for use in tying arteries that Physick claimed for other strings of animal origin, as well"as for animal ligatures in general. Mr. Lister has elucidated this whole subject most thoroughly by observation and experiment, and, without doubt, the catgut prepared on his plan is superior to all other kinds of ligature in use to-day. If the catgut receive no special preparation whatever before using it, there is always a risk that it may prematurely soften in the warm plasma with which it becomes soaked when placed around bloodvessels in wounds, in which case the knot may slip or untie, or the catgut itself may be absorbed before the occlusion is complete—and thus it would fail to accomplish the purpose for which, as a ligature, it was applied. The method of preparation which Mr. Lister has found, after various trials, to be that which may be recom- mended is the following: Take one part of chromic acid, four thousand parts of distilled water, and two hundred parts of pure carbolic acid or absolute phenol. In other words, make a one-to-twenty solution of carbolic acid, not in water alone, but in an exceedingly dilute solution of chromic acid. This small quantity of chromic acid will have a very great effect upon the catgut. In the chromo-carbolic solution place an amount of catgut about equal in weight to that of the carbolic acid employed. If there is too large a proportion of catgut, it will not be sufficiently prepared; if there is too small a quantity it may become over-prepared. At the end of forty-eight hours, catgut steeped in such a solution is sufficiently prepared. It should then be taken out and, after drying, be placed in one-to-five carbolic oil. It is now fit for use. It must, however, still be kept in the mixture of carbolic acid and sweet oil (oue part to five), in order that it may remain unchanged and not become over-prepared, and that its antiseptic condition may continue to be assured. The advantages of catgut, when treated in this way, for use as ligatures, are: (1) it is antiseptic ; (2) a knot will hold with perfect security, and the noose will not prematurely dissolve in the plasma, nor disappear until it is replaced by a ring of fibrous tissue, and until the occlusion is per- fectly safe; (3) the knot and noose will not prove too dui’able, that is, they will not be found to be insoluble and incapable of being absorbed at the right time; for if they should prove too durable they would work their way out by ulceration, like corresponding bits of carbolized silk or hempen thread. The spontaneous disappearance of catgut ligatures when set in wounds, is caused, not by any chemical solution of their structure, nor by any process of organi- zation which they undergo, but by the invasion of leucocytes, under the operation of which they vanish, while new tissue takes their place; but, if they be over-prepared, this change does not occur, and they act like foreign bodies in general. In applying the ligatures of prepared catgut, they should generally be drawn with sufficient force to divide the inner and middle coats of the artery; they should also be tied with a reef or square knot, and both ends should be cut off' close to the knot. Doubtless, the tube of an artery may in many, per- 1 Op. cit. p. 27.