179 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. lants, tonics, and nutrients, however, the patient slowly recovered, and on Dec. 4 left the hospital with his father, the stump being nearly healed.1 The above is the almost exact prototype of a case of wound of the popliteal artery, which occurred at the battle of Chickamauga, with similar treatment and results.2 Private W. D. Thompson, Company E, 5th Cavalry, aged 40; gunshot wound (minie) of left knee-joint, ball entering outer portion of popliteal space, traversing inner condyle, and emerging at inner side of joint; popliteal artery completely divided; no consecutive hemorrhage; no effort at repair in the wound. Wounded May 5, died May 18, thirteen days after the casualty. Case reported by Dr. J. C. Baylor, of Norfolk, Va.3 Thus, I have briefly presented four cases in which the popliteal artery was severed by mini e-balls. In all of them the hemorrhage ceased spontaneously; but in each the loss of blood appears to have been great, and to have caused anaemic exhaustion. In three of them gangrene of the foot and leg occurred in consequence of the arterial wound. In the remaining case, if gangrene did not appear, the fatal issue was probably due to anaemic exhaustion. Ampu- tation of the thigh saved two of the three patients attacked with gangrene. But why is gangrene so apt to follow the severance of the popliteal artery by small-arm projectiles? The anatomical structure of the parts furnishes a good reason. When the popliteal artery has been divided in a gunshot wound, the foot and leg must derive their supply of nutrient blood through the collateral channels, which are the several articular branches at the knee, and they are so small as to afford, at best, but very scanty facilities for estab- lishing a collateral circulation. But, in cases of gunshot wounds involving the popliteal space and parts bordering thereon, the inflammatory swelling, which always attends such wounds in this region, diminishes still further the supply of nutrient blood to the foot and leg by compressing the collateral channels at the knee; at least, the compression exerted by this inflammatory swelling is very liable to prevent the collateral channels at the knee from un- dergoing that development or expansion of calibre which is requisite in order to furnish such a supply of nutrient blood to the foot and leg as will preserve their vitality after the popliteal artery is severed. Gunshot wounds dividing the popliteal artery must therefore be classed among the most troublesome as well as among the most dangerous wounds in surgery. In order to achieve a suc- cessful treatment of such cases, the indications are twofold: First, the primary bleeding must be arrested at the outset, so that the occurrence of exhaustion from the loss of blood, or anaemic exhaustion of a fatal character, may be prevented, by the employment either of digital compression, or of Esmarch’s elastic ligature. Secondly, the leg should be amputated at the knee-joint, during the primary period, before the patient becomes worn out by his suf- ferings, and before gangrene of the leg, with its attendant septicaemia, has occurred. I shall next relate two cases in which the posterior tibial artery was severed by cylindro-conoidal musket-balls. In one of them there also was fracture of the fibula; in the other the bone was uninjured. In both, however, the arterial wound was the principal lesion. In both traumatic gangrene occurred. In both, likewise, the primary hemorrhage ceased spontaneously. Private Conrad Kogel, Co. D, 15th U. S. Heavy Artillery, aged 39, was admitted to Stanton Hospital, under my care, June 4, 1864, having been wounded atMechanics- ville, May 30, by a minie-ball, which passed nearly transversely through the calf of his right leg, from without inward, and somewhat upward. When admitted, his leg 1 U. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, vol. i. pp. 57, 58. New York, 1870. * Ibid., p. 58. * American Journ. Med. Sciences, 1865, p. 254.