INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 656 affected side so as to relax the tension of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The hand was 'kept supported in a sling. The dressings were occasionally reapplied for four weeks, after which they were removed, and the reduction remained perfect. Such results are not generally obtainable, on account of the more severe nature of the injury, and the fact that the skin over the bone is often very intolerant of continued pressure. Treatment.—Reduction would seem to have been simple in all the recorded cases, the treatment resolving itself into efforts to maintain the bone in its unstable socket, or rather facet, on the prominent top of the sternum. Manipulation in a direction opposite to that of the force which brought about the dislocation, will promptly restore the bone to its plaee, from which it will promptly slip again when the force has been relaxed. By some means the shoulder must be elevated, carried back, and drawn outwards, while a compress is made to hold the extremity of the bone in place. The arm must be supported by a sling and the elbow raised as in the dressing of a fractured clavicle. An axillary pad, rather large but soft, will afford the means of holding the shoulder out in its place. The compress upon the upper and inner portion of the clavicle must be held by bandages or adhesive bands, and the most perfect relaxation possible must be obtained in all opposing muscles, and especially in the sterno-mastoid and trapezius. Dr. Folts’s apparatus, already mentioned, may furnish ready meads of applying these principles. In each case the exact positions, bandages, and compresses, which seem on trial to be most likely to succeed, must be adopted and care- fully preserved, as added facilities may, in this way, be hit upon, which no general directions can suggest. Dislocation of Sternal End of Clavicle Backward.—Causes.—This dis- location is often produced by direct violence from in front, such as a blow upon the head of the bone, driving it back from its natural location. Like the upward and forward luxations, it also results from severe blows upon the outer extremity of the bone, and from compression of the opposite shoulders toward each other. Symptoms.—Inspection, or the pressure of the finger, will always show the disappearance of the head of the bone from its socket, and by tracing its shaft inward, it is found to pass behind the sternum, carrying with it the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, and thus rotating the head toward the opposite side. In some cases where the bone has been found above as well as behind its natural place, the tension of this muscle is supposed to have given it this direction. More commonly the. displacement is somewhat downward as well as backward. The bone is moved somewhat toward the opposite side, carrying with it the shoulder. In its strange position among the important organs at the root of the neck, the bone may give rise to various alarming symptoms. Dyspnoea and embarrassed deglutition have been present in most of the re- corded cases. Once only is emphysema spoken of. Xumbness and stoppage of circulation in the arm have been observed several times, from compression of the subclavian artery and of the brachial plexus. There would seem to be great danger of injury to the innominate artery should the right clavicle be affected, and very important nerve-trunks would also seem liable to laceration. In the few recorded cases, however, this has not occurred. Treatment.—In most instances reduction has not been found very difficult, and, when accomplished, it has been more perfectly maintained than in the other forms of dislocation. Yet there is usually some slight deformity re- maining. To effect reduction, the shoulder should be carried outward and