389 STRUCTURE OF AN ANEURISM: structure—its tendency is towards obliteration of the vessel by encroachment on its lumen. As to its microscopical characters, I would chiefly refer to the presence of giant cells, with a large quantity of round cells,1 and to the after striation and fibrillation of the syphilitic growths. Indeed, syphilis as it affects these vessels is in nearly every point, if carefully examined microsco- pically, macroscopically, and clinically, different from atheroma. I think, therefore, we must conclude that there is no clinical or anatomical evidence to show that systemic vessels, large enough to permit the formation of an important aneurism, are ever the subject of syphilitic affection.. To refute the somewhat widely accepted hypothesis that aneurism is of syphilitic origin, would require a vast number of negations, each one of which might be answered by asserting that the examination had not been sufficiently care- ful or scientific. But it must be pointed out that on him who makes the assertion, lies the burden of its proof, or at least of its support with some array of sufficiently sifted facts, such as are at present entirely wanting.2 Rheumatism occupies a very different ground. Inflammation of parts of the circulatory system is a well known accompaniment of that condition, and a large number of aneurismal cases have suffered from acute, others from subacute rheumatism. It certainly appears likely that a disease which pro- duces endocarditis may also cause endarteritis. Alcoholism has, I believe from my own observations, great influence on the production of atheroma; especially does the drinking of raw or slightly diluted spirits tend to this condition; probably the circulation of alcohol and fusel oil in the vessels irritates the inner coats. The frequency of aneurism in Ireland, where this unfortunate habit prevails, may to some extent support this view. Excess in more largely diluted spirits leads, as we know, to non- inflammatory fatty degenerations of various tissues, among them to that con- dition of the middle coat mentioned a few pages ago, on which the aneurismal diathesis depends. I believe, though I cannot prove, that aneurism, when due to a systemic condition at all, is more frequently owing to the abuse of alcohol, or to rheumatism, or to both, than to any other cause. The frequency of aneurism in England, so much greater than in France or Germany, may be owing in part to the dampness of the climate, and in part to the unfortunate national love of strong liquor. It must be added that in both the above continental states the tendency to aneurism is greatly increasing. Structure of an Aneurism. Contents.—The contents of an aneurismal sac always consist of blood; but this blood is not always in the same condition, for it may be entirely fluid, as, indeed, is generally the case in fusiform aneurisms; or, it may be loosely coagulated, barely consistent, like the ordinary clot formed of blood poured from a wound—this sort of semi-solidified coagulum was named by Broca “passive clot;” or, again, the cavity may be lined partially or throughout by firm, buff-colored fibrin, from which the globules have been extruded. Most sacculated aneurisms are thus, as it were, padded—at least in those 1 Heubner, Die luetische Erkrankung der Hirnarterien, 1874, S. 127. See also, Lanceraux, Trait§ historique et pratique de la Syphilis ; Langhaus, in Virchow’s Archiv, Bd. xxxvi., S. 187, and a host of others. 2 Many morbid anatomists assume syphilis from the presence of atheroma, and then formulate the contention that atheroma is syphilitic.