INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 124 In punctured and in incised wounds of the thigh where apparently the femoral artery is involved, it may be found on enlarging the wound that a large branch is pierced or cut, and not the femoral artery itself. In the fol- lowing example, the internal circumflex branch of the profunda femoris was the seat of the lesion:— Private John Davis, Co. C, 41st Infantry, aged 22, received on March 13, 1869, at Fort Clark, Texas, a punctured wound of the thigh. He was admitted to the post hospital, where the wound was enlarged, and the internal circumflex artery was ligated, under ether. Five days later, the ligature was removed, and the wound was filling with healthy granulations. On May 12, he was returned to duty.1 In this ease the injured artery was tied without delay in the wound; the patient rapidly and completely recovered. But had a policy of delay been adopted, or had styptics and compression been employed to control the bleed- ing, a diffuse aneurism would have ensued among the deep muscles on the inner side of the thigh, and the consequences would have been extremely disastrous. Popliteal Artery.—Punctured wounds of the popliteal artery have been caused by the sharp ends of sequestra, by the sharp points of fracture splinters, by sharp slivers of wood, and by the points of bayonets, dirks, and other like weapons. These wounds have been treated by tying the artery above and below the aperture, according to the method of the ancient surgeons, by tying the femoral artery on the plan of Hunter, and by cutting oft' the leg. Ho one of these procedures will suit all cases. When gangrene is pre- sent or imminent, and, by the way, gangrene frequently ensues after this lesion, amputation performed without any delay is our sole resource. For hemorrhage, whether primary or secondary, the artery must be tied above and below in the wound. In some cases of traumatic aneurism resulting from a punctured wound of the popliteal artery, where there is a tolerably well-defined sac, it may be advisable to ligate the femoral artery on Hunter’s plan, as being less likely to be followed by gangrene than the “old operation.” Each case, however, must be critically examined, and that procedure must be applied to it which appears most likely to save the patient’s life.2 Tibia,l Arteries.—Punctured wounds of the posterior tibial artery are occa- sionally met with; an example of this lesion was reported during the Cri- mean war, occurring in the person of a color sergeant belonging to the 18th regiment, who had been accidentally struck in the leg by the bayonet of one of the men, and whose posterior tibial artery was wounded. The case, however, presented no peculiarities. The wound was enlarged, the bleeding aperture in the artery was brought distinctly into view, and a ligature was applied on each side of it. The man recovered.3 In such cases the artery should also be divided midway between the two ligatures. In many cases where the poste- rior tibial or the anterior tibial artery is punctured, the performance of the old operation for ligating the injured artery in the wound, can be facilitated by applying the elastic compression of Esmarch to the leg above and below the wound in such a way as to effectually control the circulation.4 Plantar Arch.—Hemorrhage from punctured wounds of the plantar arch must be treated on the same plan as hemorrhage from punctured wounds of the palmar arch, which have just been fully discussed. 1 Circular No. 3, War Department, S. G. 0., August 17th, 1871, p. 242. 2 See also' Incised Wounds of the Popliteal Artery. 8 Surgical History of the British Army in the Crimean War, etc., vol. ii. p. 366. 4 See observations on Incised Wounds of the Tibial Arteries, and of the Arteries of the Foot and Leg.