465 POPLITEAL ANEURISM. cies the surgeon may now and then be called upon to tie the vessel in that situation. As a very general rule, the artery is bared just as the sartorius muscle crosses it, and before it gets into the tendinous channel. The guides which I myself follow are two. I bend the patient’s knee, abduct the thigh a little, and rotate it outwards just enough to let it lie comfortably upon its outer side, then draw an imaginary line from the centre of the femoro- abdominal fold to the innermost projection of the internal femoral con- dyle, and another from the anterior iliac spine to the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh. Where these two lines meet, the operator will find the sartorius covering the femoral artery, at a distance averaging in the full-grown man about one and a half inches below the offset of the profunda. Fixing this point in his mind, the operator makes an incision about two and a half inches long, longitudinally down the limb, in such wise that the imagin- ary point shall be at its middle, or a little below its middle; having cut through the superficial fascia and the fat, often abundant at this place, espe- cially in women, the fascia lata comes into view, and generally one may see through it the outlines of the muscles. That of the sartorius, enveloped by itself in a sheath or fold of the fascia, must be visible before the operator goes further. If, therefore, he does not recognize this, he should move the outer wound from side to side until he finds the muscle’s inner edge and knows his exact situa- tion. By passing the knife along the inner margin of the sartorius, and turn- ing the muscle over or drawing it outward, the sheath of the vessel is ex- posed, generally with the long saphenous nerve running along its outer aspect; this is to be detached and held aside, the sheath of the vessel cautiously opened, and the aneurism needle passed beneath. I do not consider that it matters much which way one passes it, since the vein here lies almost directly behind the artery; the non-inclusion of the vein should, however, be verified. It has once happened to me, and I have seen it occur in the practice of two other surgeons, that in isolating the artery a gush of venous blood has occurred; we all three feared that we might have wounded the vein, and lost a good deal of time in the use of pressure and in looking for an orifice. In all three cases, when pressure was avoided and the artery tied, bleeding entirely ceased. The operation for tying the artery in Hunter’s canal is performed at a rather lower point; the incision is a little more to the inner side, and must be longer. The line from the centre of the groin to the inner condyle is here the guide, but if the saphenous vein be visible through the skin, the knife may be kept in front of it; if invisible, a little caution in the first use of the scalpel will avoid it, and being looked for in the fat, it may be turned aside. The fascia lata, now exposed, lets the sartorius be seen through it; the outer border of the muscle is in this operation to be sought, the fascia divided, and the muscle pushed inward. The structure now revealed is the piece of thin but strong fascia that roofs in, as it were, Hunter’s canal, stretching in this place from the vastus interims to the tendon of the adductor longus; this fascia is easily divided; the artery, with the vein a little more on the inner side than it was higher up, and the saphenous nerve close to it on the outer side, is now exposed; both vein and nerve must be avoided by the needle, which may be best passed from without. The superficial femoral may be tied for aneurism of the femoral artery low down, as in the canal of Hunter, but is more frequently tied for popliteal aneurism. This is of all deligations the most frequently performed, and its sta- tistics stand thus: First, we will take gatherings of published cases; and here I may avail myself of an excellent compilation by Dr. Babe,1 who has collected 1 Zur Unterbindung der grossen Grefasstamme, etc., Zeitsclir. fur Chirurgie, Bd. v. S. 140. VOL. III.—30