WOUNDS OF VEINS. 209 Percival Pott, in a hopeless case where the superior longitudinal sinus was laid bare by a compound fracture of the skull, for a space at least two inches in length, wishing to abstract blood, made an opening with a lancet into the sinus, and suffered the blood to run off until the countenance, which was flushed, became pale. He then put a bit of lint on the orifice, and by pressing thereon lightly with a finger, easily stopped the bleeding. This venesection caused no trouble. The patient, however, died on the twelfth day afterward, from a cerebro-meningeal abscess, due to the original injury.1 In some sabre wounds, which divide the skull across the sagittal suture, the longitu- dinal sinus has occasionally been opened and bled profusely, but without inducing fatal consequences. Hennen has seen this sinus opened by splinters, but never saw anything approaching to dangerous hemorrhage from it.2 In the case of a child, aged 3 years, the great longitudinal sinus was opened by a punctured fracture of the skull, made with the sharp point of a pickaxe ; much venous hemorrhage ensued from a small wound over the sagittal suture ; a probe inserted into this wound passed down to the corpus callosum. A pad of lint was applied to the wound, and an ice-bag was kept on the head ; the patient made satisfactory progress to recovery.3 Foreign bodies lodged in a sinus of the dura mater do not readily excite intra-venous inflammation. For example, in December, 1868, one of the demonstrators of anatomy in the Calcutta Medical College met with a cal- varia (now in the College Museum) in which an iron headless nail, about an inch long, had penetrated the frontal bone on the mesial line, and, passing completely through the longitudinal sinus, had divided the layers of the falx cerebri, between which its point is visible; consequently its shaft, which was not corroded, stood in the mid-current of blood in the sinus, and seems latterly not to have caused any inconvenience. The edges of the hole in the frontal bone, which the butt-end of the nail still occupies, are so rounded that it looks like an arterial foramen, and there is not the slightest trace of inflam- matory change within.4 Lastly, I will state a few conclusions derived from the foregoing: (1) Wounds of the sinuses of the dura mater do not possess any peculiar elements of danger. (2) Hemorrhage from wounds of these sinuses is not dangerous unless the extravasation is retained within the skull; in which case it becomes very dangerous because of the compression of the brain that ensues. For its relief the operation of trephining should, if possible, be performed. (3) Ex- ternal bleeding from wounds of these sinuses can generally be restrained, without much trouble, by applying dry lint with slight or very moderate pres- sure. But, under no circumstances, should the persulphate or perchloride of iron be put in such wounds, because of the possibility of its getting into the injured sinus. (4) Antiseptic dressings should be applied, together with the ice-bag if there be any tendency to meningeal inflammation or to a cerebral abscess. Septicaemia from Wounds of Veins.—A wmunded vein or sinus of the dura mater, whose open mouth is surrounded by, or bathed in, purulent fluid, may afford an avenue for the introduction of septic matter into the circu- lation, which will infect the blood and the whole system, that is, produce septicaemia. Professor Agnew has seen a trifling wound of the cephalic vein, below the line of the deltoid, prove fatal from this cause.5 The writer has seen a lesion of the same vein, made in opening an abscess of the arm, prove 1 Chirurgical Works, vol. i. p. 134, Am. ed. 2 Principles of Military Surgery, p. 231, Am. ed. 3 Lancet, August 22, 1874, p. 270. 4 British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, October, 1871, p. 353. 5 Op. cit., vol. i. p. 516. VOL. III.—14