DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 671 secured, affords a nearly perfect restoration of the functions, no matter how long the time which has elapsed. Those cases in which extensive organic changes have occurred about the socket, are probably cases in which the new adhesions also are most developed, and in which reduction is therefore not easy. The following remarkable case, which has not as yet been reported, is un- paralleled in the records of surgery:— Mr. B., a patient of my friend Dr. Rice, a prominent physician at La Moille, Illinois, met with an accident in November, 1877, by which he dislocated his shoulder. The pa- tient, who was a farmer, failed for some reason to obtain proper treatment, and applied after eighteen months to Dr. Rice, who discovered the true nature of the injury, and made patient efforts to reduce the luxation. After using as much force as be dared, this physician pronounced the case beyond cure, and advised that no more hope be enter- tained of replacing the bone, as no nerves seemed pressed upon, and as the arm was still measureably useful to the patient. In November, 1881, four years after the injury, the man was riding upon a horse, and at the same time leading a blind horse behind him, by a halter, which he had care- lessly wound about the hand of the arm dislocated four years before. While in this position, the animal behind, becoming startled, suddenly jumped back, and Mr. B., who was unable to release his hand from the halter-strap, was dragged forcibly backward, so that the traction was both backward and, as he leaned further back, somewhat upward. The shock of this sudden strain was so severe that the patient was taken to his house and placed in bed, it being believed by himself and others that he was seriously hurt. He slept for some hours, the pain not being severe, and, upon awakening, himself dis- covered that his arm was changed in some way. Further examination showed that the luxation had been reduced, and the member soon recovered its mobility, and nearly its old strength. From this extraordinary and exceptional case it is not to be concluded that there is ordinarily much hope in cases as old as the above. Much less vio- lence has not unfrequently produced fatal results, yet a percentage of cases are doubtless reducible up to six months’ standing by the use of the adjuster, and possibly by the subcutaneous sections already spoken of. I deem the upward extension to be dangerous in attempting to reduce ancient dislocations, but believe that traction at right angles to the trunk is reasonably safe, if not pushed to extreme violence. When thoroughly relaxed by ether, the patient, being laid upon his back, may have Jarvis’s adjuster applied, and carefully fitted; or, in default of this, a piece of apparatus specially constructed, with a rack and pinion, so as to allow of mobility. Least valuable and most dangerous of all appliances is the compound pulley, although this even will permit of rotation. Let the extending band be attached just above the elbow, the forearm being flexed at right angles, and let traction gradually be made at the same time that the arm is strongly rotated in either direction, to assist in loosening it from the bands of adhesion which have surrounded the head of the bone. Persistence rather than great force is what is needed to obtain reduction. Although no care will remove all risk of accident, the avoidance of extreme force in traction, and the patient repetition of the rotations, will very much abate this danger as compared with that of other methods. After long-continued efforts, the surgeon may be rewarded by feeling the bone slip into place, whereas the most energetic endeavors, continued for a few moments only, would have resulted in failure. Subcutaneous section of the capsular ligament has been proposed and prac- tised in this, as in other joints. I believe this operation to be nearly devoid of danger, when performed with full antiseptic precautions, and recommend it always, rather than permanently leaving the shoulder hopelessly maimed.