MEDICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 411 culty. Thus, such drugs as belladonna, or its alkaloid,1 and hydrocyanic acid, may be used, and with a certain advantage. The former drug has the effect, in thoracic aneurisms, not merely of lessening the rapidity of the heart’s action, but also of alleviating pain; and, more especially if there be dyspnoea, of diminishing the laborious efforts of obstructed respiration. I have found less benefit from digitalis. Great caution in the use of this drug is necessary, since its action appears cumulative; and after long administration, with apparently little effect, it occasionally retards the cardiac pulsation suddenly, and some- times to an alarming extent. Tincture of aconite, in from two to five minim doses, every three or four hours, will generally rapidly reduce the pulse to sixty in the minute, and to a more feeble beat. The action must be carefully regulated. A case of Dr. Pancoast’s. (subclavian aneurism) got well while the patient was suffering from a poisonous dose of aconite given by mistake. Veratrum, if used at all, may be most safely employed as veratria ointment over the chest, if the skin be unbroken.2 The action should, however, be very care- fully watched. In one case in which I thus used it, relief, and I think a certain amount of retardation in the growth of the tumor, ensued. Bromide of potassium is of decided advantage when pain or irritation arises from direct pressure on nerves. I have seen the irritating and distressing cough which is caused by disturbance of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, in certain cases of thoracic aneurism, much mitigated, and in one or two in- stances almost subdued, by twenty-grain doses of this drug; I have seen, also, severe pain from pressure on the popliteal nerve almost disappear. Iodide of potassium has by some writers been greatly extolled. It was first employed in aneurism by Dr. Chuckerbutty, of Calcutta, who noted the consolidation of an aneurism while the patient was for some other disease taking large doses of that drug. Since then it has been by some surgeons largely employed. My own experience, like that—as he tells me—of Sir Wil- liam Gull, and that of Mr. Holmes,3 is not favorable, although under certain conditions, to be named immediately, the drug may alleviate. There is, since direct experiment on the human subject is inadmissible, very great difficulty in either proving or disproving the value of a drug in this sort of malady. We cannot isolate it; we cannot give the drug and do nothing else. Thus, in turning to published records we find always that patients who come under treatment are placed at entire rest, debarred from stimulants, and given low diet; when, if the iodide be administered, the advantage gained is put down, in whole, or in great part, to the use of the drug. 'jSTor have I been able to find a single case in which the medicine, given without these more potent elements of success, has proved curative of the aneurism. On the other hand, there are a great many4 records of patients who, after im- proving under the whole system of rest, diet, and drug, have got tired of restraint and resumed their ordinary mode of life, and then, though still tak- ing large doses of the iodide of potassium, have quickly relapsed, and gene- rally rapidly died. The theory of the syphilitic nature of atheroma and aneurism is one reason 1 The most reliable, and, indeed, the only stable compound of atropia is the salicylate. The formula is this :— Take of Atropia, ... 5 grs. Salicylic acid, . . 7| grs. Hot water, . . .10 fluidounces. Rub the atropia down first into a very fine powder, then little by little mix the salicylic acid with it; add slowly the hot water. The whole must dissolve, and the solution must measure or be filled up to 10 fluidounces. The dose is 10 minims—that is, T^-g- grain of atropia. 2 The United States Pharmacopeia preparation is 1 in 25 ; the English, 1 in 60. 3 System of Surgery, second edition, vol. iii. p. 437. 4 These are so scattered and so multitudinous that it would be useless to refer to them.