INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 306 pectoralis major, and remove the cellular tissue overlying the axillary vessels. The artery is now brought into view, and its pulsations make it clearly dis- tinguishable from the contiguous parts. The pectoralis minor and the margin of the deltoid are also brought into view (Fig. 482). Separate the artery from the axillary vein lying in front, and from the brachial plexus of nerves behind. Cautiously pass a ligature with the improved American or with Mott’s artery needle, keeping the point of the instrument close to the artery so as not to embrace any other part. The cephalic vein must not be injured by the incisions. Delpech’s Operation.—Make a slightly oblique incision downward from the junction of the outer third with the inner third of the clavicle, along the interstice between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles (Fig. 483). Strongly separate or retract these muscles, and divide the pectoralis minor on a grooved director. Then introduce the left index finger to the bottom of the wound, and, bending it like a hook under the mass of vessels and nerves, draw them outward. Tie the artery at the point where it is embraced between the two heads of the median nerve, carefully avoiding the axillary vein, which lies below and internally, and the trunks of the brachial plexus of nerves, which are found above and external to it. This procedure has the serious fault of requiring the nerves and vessels to be pulled or dragged with more or less of violence, <and to be isolated by lacerating the cellular tissue which surrounds them. The operations of Hodgson and Chamberlaine are therefore to be preferred. In performing each" of these three operations, especially the last, care must he taken that the cephalic vein be not wounded. Operation in the Axillary Hollow or Armpit.—Below the pectoralis minor, that is, in the third part of its course, the artery is quite superficial, being covered only by the integuments and deep fascia. Place the patient on his back, with the arm extended and rotated outward (Fig. 484). The operator should stand on the outer side, if it be the right arm, and on the inner side if it be the left arm. Having found the inner border of the coraco-brachialis mus- cle, and the place where the artery pulsates, make an incision two or three inches Fig. 482. Fig. 483. - Chamherlaine’s operation for tying the axillary artery. (SSdillot.) Delpech’s operation for tying the axillary artery. (Sedillot.)