534 ANEURISM. 11 had formed communication with the pulmonary vein, 4 with a cavity of the heart, and 3 with one of the vense cavae. Thus, on examining these records and collating them with others gathered by Sibson and by myself, we may construct the following table,1 showing the relative frequency of these various conditions:— No. of Cases. Aneurismal Artery. 17 Ascending aorta. 6 “ “ 3 4 u a 2 Transverse aorta. 7 Descending aorta. 5 Common carotid artery. 1 External “ “ 4 Internal carotid “ 2 External iliac artery. 3 Femoral artery. 2 Popliteal artery. 1 Posterior tibial artery. Communicating with. Pulmonary artery. Right auricle. Right ventricle. Descending vena cava. Left ventricle. Descending vena cava. Ascending vena cava. Internal jugular vein. Cavernous sinus. External iliac vein. Femoral vein. Popliteal vein. Posterior tibial vein. In five of these sixty cases, the form of intercommunication was that of aneurismal varix; in the rest, that of varicose aneurism. The mode in which the disease is produced in the large internal vessels, and frequently in external parts, is as follows: First the artery develops an aneurism which, in the course of its growth, presses upon and ultimately opens into a vein or venous cavity, just as it might, if otherwise placed, have opened into a bronchus or the pharynx. Sometimes such a rupture is followed by rapid or immediate death. Of the patients whose cases are above tabulated, though one lived for only a very few hours after the event, the larger number survived for weeks or months, and one even for more than three and a half years.2 That life could be thus com- patible with so grave a lesion, would be, unless supported by ample evidence, incredible ; yet, not only does clinical observation indicate this fact, but the smooth and rounded margin of the arterio-venous opening attests the long duration of patency. Indeed, in one case the condition diagnosed during life caused so little trouble that the man “ declared he was quite well, except that his breathing was a little short; he could not be induced to remain longer in hospital, as he was determined to resume his employment.”3 The mode in which these openings form is the same as of any ruptures of aneurismal sacs into other adjacent cavities. The tumor in its increase presses on the walls of the venous space, causing adhesion, and then gradual thinning and absorption of the walls, until the sac bulges into the vein or cavity, and at this part—since an empty cavity or one with fluid contents offers less resist- ance than solid tissue—the wall is apt to further dilate and become thinner. The actual rupture may be aided by some sudden effort, or may be. quite spontaneous; in the latter case it is more likely to be slower than in the former, but may be as sudden; and although one would suppose that sudden rupture must of necessity be more constantly and rapidly fatal than the. more gradual breach, yet I do not find, as far as clinical symptoms permit the moment of the event to be fixed, that such difference really exists. 1 I am, of course, aware that more cases are scattered, and especially of late years, in surgical journals, hut it seemes to me sufficient to take those which I have found recorded between 1840 and 1870. * Case VIII. of Thurnam. The communication was with the pulmonary artery. 3 Wade, loc. eit. The communication was at that time only with the pulmonary artery, the opening into which was, after death, found to he round, regular, and smooth ; a further opening, ragged and thin-edged, was recent, and the immediate cause of death.