499 • CAROTID ANEURISM. part of which covers the vessel (sheath), and, running obliquely through it, a quantity of veins, which should be avoided1 by placing the finger in the depth of the wound, and finding the pulse of the carotid at a place free from venous complication. Here a bit of the fascial sheath should be pinched up on the front, inner aspect of the vessel, a little hole made, the director passed in, the safety of the descendens noni nerve verified, the sheath slit far enough to let the naked artery be seen, and the needle passed from without inward. A few words about the nerves. The descendens noni lies at this place, on the outer aspect of the sheath, and will rarely be endangered if that structure be opened as above described ; but it is well to see that it is out of the line taken by the director; if its absence there be verified, it need not be hunted up elsewhere. The pneuinogastric nerve lies in the interval between the artery and vein in the back part of, but not loose in, the sheath; each of the vessels, as well as the nerve, has a compartment, strongly walled, to itself, while the sympathetic, behind the sheath, is also separated by a thick fascia from the vessels. If these anatomical positions be maintained, both nerves are safe.2 Young operators are sometimes made anxious and embarrassed by unnecessary cautions, yet sometimes the parts do not quite maintain their proper positions; hence it is well, before tightening the ligature, to see that it includes the artery only. Ligation of Carotid below Omo-hyoid.—The low operation also requires an incision about two and a half or three inches in length, along the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid ; it may extend from just below the level of the cricoid cartilage to an inch or half an inch above the sterno-clavicular joint.3 The fascia may be freely divided and the muscle turned outward; judging from my own experience, it can very rarely be necessary to sever its sternal origin. When this has been done, much caution in the use of the knife is advisable. Many veins, much engorged if there be dyspnoea (sometimes the anterior jug- ular lies here), meander in this space ; they and the loose fascia can generally be pushed away with the finger until the omo-hyoid is seen. Along the inner border of this muscle, as it lies on the sterno-hyoid, a few touches of the knife are required in order to allow of its being drawn upward and outward ; the finger and a blunt hook will now turn and hold the outer edge of the sterno- hyoid inwards. The sheath, avoiding the descendens noni, is to be opened and the ligature passed as in the higher operation.4 The unaccustomed ope- rator should be prepared for having to go very deep, especially on the left side, where the vessel seems almost to lie in a pit.. After deligation of the vessel, the size of the aneurism may not much decrease, and pulsation, although arrested, may return after a very short time. This results chiefly from the very free communication of the vessels of the two sides at the base of the brain. Blood finds its way through the circle of Willis into the internal carotid of the affected side, and to that part of the common trunk which lies above the ligature, thence into the external carotid, 1 I have generally seen here a very full, turgid vein, the superior thyroid, coming obliquely from the larynx to the internal jugular; it sometimes runs before, more often behind, the carotid. I suppose it is the effect of the anaesthetic, which causes this to swell to the size of a cedar pencil 2 Pilz (Zur Ligatur der Art. carot. comm., Langenbeck’s Archiv, Bd. ix. S. 399) says that the vagus has probably never been included in the ligature, but that a piece has been cut out of it; but that, on the other hand, the sympathetic nerve has been tied with the vessel. Neither of the cases to which he refers, was one of simple deligation—the former extirpation of a tumor, the latter a complicated deligation of several arteries for secondary hemorrhage. 3 The length of the patient’s neck and the position of the aneurism cause some slight variation in placing the incision. 4 It is well to say that, in operating on the right side, more especially if a ligature which divides the inner vascular coats be used, the artery should not be attacked too low. The only case of fatal secondary hemorrhage which I have ever had in this operation, followed the liga- tion of a carotid with catgut close above the sterno-clavicular joint.