ANEURISM. 458 torius and semi-membranosus muscles. On division of the fascia, those parts are drawn back with a broad retractor; the strong round edge of the adductor nuignus, as it becomes tendinous, is easily recognized, and by cautiously tearing the loose tissue behind that muscle with the finger or with the handle of the scalpel, the artery is easily reached. The nerve does not come into view; the vein is to the outer side, and posterior to the artery. Popliteal Aneurism.—The treatment of popliteal aneurism must always be, for very many reasons, a matter of great interest to the practical surgeon. Tt is the most frequent of all aneurisms with which he has to do. It is very variable in its severity, so that the remark which has been applied to all forms of the malady is peculiarly fitting here: “Some aneurisms so tend to cure themselves that very slight artificial assistance suffices to induce their solidi- fication ; others obstinately resist one eftort after another, and the cure when at last effected may destroy the vitality of parts beyond.” It is open to every mode of treatment applicable to the whole range of aneurismal disease, each and every method having been employed successfully and otherwise. 1STor is historical interest wanting. It is the first important aneurism in which Anel’s method, and the first in which the Hunterian, the flexion, and Reid’s method (Esmarch’s bandage), were employed. In making choice of how he shall treat any aneurism at the back of the knee-joint, the surgeon must consider both the local and the general condi- tion of the patient. One would gladly avoid tying a large vessel if milder means will avail, but it is necessary to be sure that the proposed method is milder, or rather that the time which Fig. 539. it requires is not so prolonged as to render it both painful and severe. Neither pressure, flexion, nor the use of the Esmarch bandage is painless, and when prolonged, none of them is without its dangers. Flexion.—Certain aneurisms being more than others amenable to cure by flexion,' it is well to have some clear conception of the circumstances which should induce us to make trial of that method. These are both general and local. The former are early age, not over forty-five or fifty at most; a non- irritable, placid temperament; and ab- sence of the gouty or rheumatic diathe- sis. The favorable local conditions are, distinct sacculation of the aneurism, which should be of quite moderate di- mensions and with somewhat distant pulsation, that is, should be padded with some considerable amount of clot; the sac should in preference be situated at the lower part of the popliteal space, Popliteal aneurism growing forward. or at least not higher than the middle, for aneurisms which originate and he on the upper part of the vessel are rarely benefited by this treatment; the sac- should also spring from the posterior wall of the artery, and grow backward towards the skin, or at least not forward. When the tumor springs from the front of the vessel and increases towards the bone, it pushes the artery back