INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 552 shock is present, or merely local numbness.1 Therefore it is not important to test the sensibility at the moment of the accident; and even complete anaes- thesia does not indicate crushing, unless it persists for several days. The paralysis and total anaesthesia may, on the other hand, be overlooked, on account of recurrent sensibility and substituted mobility; but it is sufficient to understand these phenomena in order to ascribe to them their due importance. Following these injuries, the phenomena of inflammatory reaction are fre- quently very marked, and the process of reparation is long and difficult, especially if the crushing involves some extent of the nerve trunk. In crushing, the continuity of the nerve is not destroyed, because the neurilemma remains untorn; but there is a more or less complete rupture of the nerve fibres, the spaces thus produced being filled with blood and myeline. Beyond the seat of the crushing, the nerves sometimes insensibly resume their calibre, sometimes they appear irregularly dilated. In examining the nerve after five or six days, there can be sometimes found degeneration of nerve fibres which do not present any traces of injury, and which have only been the seat of general agitation or distension.2 Diagnosis of Contusion and Crushing of Nerves.—If the patient is seen soon after the injury, the history and traces of the contusion of the soft parts give some clue to the nature of the lesion. At a later period, and in the absence of any precise information, the paralysis from contusion of a nerve may be confounded with that due to cerebral causes, distinguishable by the perfect preservation of the reflexes and of electro-muscular contractility; or with lead, palsy, which may be particularly recognized by the persistence of the action of the supinator. The determination of the injured nerve is deduced from a knowledge of its course and distribution. In regard to the latter question, it has been already said that the lesions may seem to be more extended than they are in reality, on account of the local numbness, which is more or less pronounced at the moment of the injury. It must also be remembered that there may exist a semi-paralysis of the muscles which are innervated by the nerves in the proximity of the injured nerve; a phenomenon which was formei’ly attributed to concussion of these nerves (Follin). As to the diagnosis of the degree of the lesion, this can only be made some time after the injury, and depends, as we have seen, on the more or less com- plete disappeaVance of mobility and sensibility, and above all upon the state of the electric contractility of the muscles. Prognosis.•—The prognosis of nerve contusion is not always grave, even when this has been very severe; the inflammation which supervenes may rapidly subside; nevertheless, according to Weir Mitchell, the lesions which follow contusion are more enduring than those which depend upon a different nervous lesion apparently more severe. The danger is evidently proportion- ate to the degree of the nervous lesion, and accordingly the state of the electro-muscular contractility determines the prognosis. The liypersesthesia which sometimes follows faradization is a favorable symptom. On the con- trary, contraction of the atrophied muscles is a sign of ill omen. ! But in extensive wounds By crushing, such as are met with in railroad accidents, the trau- matic shock may he attributed to the crushing of the peripheral nerves, which reacts upon the nerve centres. 2 Crushing a nerve by means of forceps has been sometimes practised in addition to its elongation. (Verneuil.)