PROGRESS OF ANEURISM. 399 aneurism arise on the trunk, quietude and rest will in all probability be the treatment adopted; if on a limb, amputation will be resorted to; and this is the course which, if such an aneurism were diagnosed, would he the proper resource, as more likely to save life than any other course. A certain number of errors have been made, and doubtless will be made again. Thus, in 1866, my late colleague, Mr. Hancock, amputated the thigh of a man for supposed sarcoma of the popliteal space. The disease proved to be a ruptured aneurism in the above condition. Some of the efiused blood was solid, some semi-solid, a little quite liquid. Ho history of a previous tumor, pulsating or otherwise, could be obtained.1 A little further on are the details of a case in which my diagnosis (not my practice, as the case was not my own) was in fault (see Case IX.). Progress of Aneurism. The tendency of aneurism is towai’ds rupture; but this tendency is modi- fied and controlled by so many circumstances that such an event may be rapid, greatly retarded, or altogether obviated; indeed, the tumor may be sponta- neously cured, or may, if unfavorably situated, destroy life by methods other than hemorrhage. Fusiform aneurisms, if at a distance from the heart, and neither cerebral nor pulmonary, do not often burst spontaneously, or, at least, such an event is long postponed. Sacculated and racemose aneurisms, if uncured, generally terminate by rupture.2 Those which grow most quickly are most immi- nently exposed to such a result. The systemic causes of rapid increase are a powerful heart and a strong circulation ; hence, youth and vigor, or a hyper- trophied ventricle, as also restlessness and recalcitrance to the salutary ordi- nance of quietude, are potent auxiliaries of rapid growth. I have also observed that when the patients are decidedly rheumatic, and still more if they have recently suffered from acute rheumatism, the aneurism grows quickly, even though there be no cardiac hypertrophy. Local anatomical conditions which conduce to rapid increase, are proximity to the heart; the situation of the tumor in a cavity, or surroundings of loose, unresisting tissue; a large size of the sac’s mouth relatively to that of its body; an absence of active clot, whether owing to the shape of the tumor or to the quality of the blood; and inflammation, suppurative or otherwise, in the im- mediate neighborhood, whether produced by the pi'essure of the tumor or of independent causality. From all these considerations, it is evident that aneu- risms are of very variable duration; nor must the various points above noticed be overlooked, when methods of treatment involving danger are under consideration. Rupture of an Aneurism does not mean the slow yielding of dilated arte- rial coats, whereby the tumor, formerly inclosed in altered arterial tunics, comes to he no longer entirely thus surrounded, but is at some smaller or larger spot simply encapsuled by condensed adjacent structures, perhaps strengthened and padded by active clot (p. 390). Most of the large aneurisms which I have dissected, have thus been “ consecutive.” The word “rupture,” 1 The limb was injected and split longitudinally. One-half is in the museum of the College of Surgeons, the other in Charing Cross Hospital. 2 That is, unless pressure on some part destroy the function of a vital organ. The aneurism of which Mr. Liston, the celebrated surgeon, died, did burst; nevertheless, the hemorrhage was small, and pressure on the trachea was, together with rupture of the aneurism, the cause of death.