INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 572 gunshot wound of the radial nerve followed by a swelling of the back of the hand, due to a trophic disturbance of the extensor tendons and their sheaths.1 (4) Neuro-paralytic Inflammation.—The types of this kind of inflamma- tion are furnished by the broncho-pneumonia consecutive to section of the pneumogastrics, and by the alterations of the eye which follow section of the trifacial. Experiments made upon animals have demonstrated that section of the tenth pair determines a passive congestion of the lungs, oedema, emphy- sema, nodules of hepatization, and an intense inflammation of the bronchial mucous membrane. Again, when the trifacial is cut within the cranium, the conjunctiva becomes inflamed and secretes a puriform mucus; the iris becomes -red, and is covered with false membranes; the cornea, after the first twenty- four hours, begins to look cloudy, and at the end of five or six days becomes of a milky whiteness from plastic infiltration and the formation of crystals of carbonate of lime; the pituitary mucous membrane becomes spongy and bleeding ; and ulcerations occur upon the lining membrane of the lips. These phenomena, first described by Magendie in 1824, have been verified by all physiologists. But their interpretation has given rise to animated discussions, and unfortunately, as we shall see, a satisfactory explanation yet remains to be given. Three principal hypotheses have been suggested : (1) Is there a modifica- tion of vaso-motor action ? (2) Does the nerve section suppress, or does it irritate, certain fibres with special functions, called nutritive or trophic ? Or (8), finally, does it only play a secondary part by favoring the action of external traumatisms ? Every one knows the celebrated experiment of Pourfour du Petit and of Claude Bernard. Section of the sympathetic nerve in the neck produces a vaso-motor paralysis, with redness, elevation of temperature, and swelling of the paralyzed parts. These are phenomena which are very analogous to those ■of inflammation; but nevertheless it cannot be said that there is an inflam- matory lesion. Every one acknowledges at the present day that vaso-motor paralysis determines a simple fluxion, and is not capable of producing a true phlegmasia. The parts attacked are in imminent danger of inflammation, so to speak ; a phlegmasic predisposition is created ; but in order that inflamma- tion should be developed, the intervention of an accessory cause, mechanical or chemical, is required. As regards the lung, it is not even necessary that this vaso-motor paralysis, admitted by Schiff and Genzmer, should intervene. Professor Vulpian has demonstrated that neither section nor electrization of the vagi modifies in any way the color of the respiratory mucous membrane. According to M. Vulpian, the vaso-motor nerves of the lung are contained in the filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and .not in the trunk of the pneu- mogastric. Ought we to admit a direct trophic influence ? Traube and Steiner deny such an influence. According to them, the pulmonary lesions are due to the accompanying paralysis of the muscles of the larynx; the entrance of parti- cles of food into the bronchi irritate the anaesthetized and defenceless mucous membrane, and this traumatic irritation is the real cause of the inflammation. It must be said, however, that Traube’s hypothesis does not explain all, since Genzmer and Michaelson have obtained the same results, the same broncho- pneumonic lesions, by cutting the vagi below the recurrent, so as to avoid laryngeal paralysis, and the consequent entrance of particles of food. These authors admit that the lesions are due to vaso-motor paralysis; but, as we 1 Gazette Medicate, 1873, p. 458.