688 DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP. but constantly present, and complete extension is as impossible as outward rotation. 'When the knee is forced downward, the pelvis tilts backward in a corresponding angle, so that, when the patient is laid upon a hard mattress, it will always be found impossible to bring his popliteal space and loins upon the bed at the same time. The limb is also adducted, and laid across the other, so that the great toe of the affected side points toward the instep of the opposite foot. It will be found impossible to evert or rotate the limb in any direction, for the tension of the Y’ ligament holds the tro- chanter so firmly against the pelvic bone that nothing short of rupturing its fibres or fracturing the femoral neck will allow the bone to rotate. In examining suspected cases of this dislocation, it is to be remembered that the capsules of the ankle and knee-joints in some individuals are quite loose, and permit the leg or foot to rotate through some degrees, while the thigh bone remains immovable. As already stated, the thigh cannot be adducted, nor even extended fully, save by a difficult tipping down of the pelvis, but adduction is easier, and flexion is most easy, because these movements do not tighten the Y ligament, but relax its tension. The thigh, from knee-pan to ilium, is of course shortened by precisely the amount of upward slipping of the head along the pelvic bone. Sir Astley Cooper says that three inches, in many cases, is the measure of the difference of the two limbs. Writers give the usual amount of shortening as much less than this. Chelius, .Miller, and Malgaigne, are of the opinion that cases occur in which no shortening is to be detected. Such cases cannot be examples of upward, but only of backward luxation. Hamilton, whose authority is great in this matter, concludes that the average of shortening is not more than one or one and a half inches, but concedes that occasionally it may reach three inches, as Sir Astley Cooper believed. The diagnosis of upward and backward luxations of the thigh should pre- sent no insuperable difficulty if full opportunity be allowed for investigation. For the examination, the part should be thoroughly exposed, and the patient may be placed in a variety of positions while efforts are made to test the mobility of the limb and to obtain its measurements. The differential diag- nosis is not perplexing when the history of the case is known. Fracture of the neck of the femur presents only a part of the symptoms of dislocation, yet might be mistaken for it without careful examination. Crepitus, which would prove fracture to exist, may not be present, or, in case of impacted fracture in the cancellated structure, it may be deemed highly essential not to dislodge the impaction. Shortening usually occurs in frac- ture of the neck, but not so uniformly nor to so great a degree as in upward luxation. The diagnostic difference in the symptoms lies in the different position and mobility of the limb in the two cases. Ho simple fracture of the neck can give the distinctive position and behavior of this dislocation, viz., inward rotation, flexion, and adduction, with inability to rotate outward or abduct the limb. On the contrary, the foot is commonly everted and the limb in full extension. The thigh can be moved in all directions, with no resistance other than that caused by muscular opposition on account of pain. Fractures of the femoral neck occur in old persons, as a result of sudden falls or missteps—much slighter injuries than those required to produce dislocation. Displacements upon the dorsum of the ilium occur frequently as a result of hip-disease. In the great majority of so-called spontaneous luxations, the real anatomical change consists in almost total destruction of both the aceta- bulum and the head of the femur, so that the joint proper is no longer in existence. It is scarcely proper to term these cases of dislocation. They are rather instances of upward and backward slipping of the shaft of the bone, following the destruction of the joint by ulceration. From hip-disease,