ANEURISM. 410 daily portion should be administered on [divided between] three or four separate occasions, so that the small quantity given at each may never fill the bloodvessels.” The same, or much the same, regimen, with the exception of bloodletting, is even now practised, and has of late been more particularly recommended by Mr. Jolliffe Tufnell.1 The regimen as at present adopted may he described as entire rest, with either a low diet or a dry diet. The rest is to be in bed, and the patient must be enjoined to refrain from frequent move- ment of the limbs—if the aneurism he thoracic the arms are to be employed as little as possible—contrivances for holding a book or other articles being provided. The change from total2 to semi-recumhency is all that should be permitted, and even in this the patient should he helped. He should not get out of bed for any purpose whatever. The low diet may be arranged somewhat on this pattern—Bread, 10 ounces; butter, 1 oz.; rice or tapioca pudding, 6 ounces; milk, 1 pint; this amount, divided into three or four meals, should suffice, as a general rule ; hut some patients, especially among the less educated classes, to whom physical pri- vation is unbearable, become recalcitrant under such restrictions, and it may be advisable to allow once or twice a week a little fish or some boiled meat. The dry diet may be formulated thus—for breakfast and supper, bread, 4 ounces ; butter, J oz.; milk, 2 ounces. For dinner, meat, 3 ounces ; bread, 3 ounces, water or milk, 3 ounces. If the quantity of fluid can be still fur- ther reduced, some advantage may be gained, and thirst can be obviated by occasionally sucking a small piece of ice, or by gargling the throat with iced, acidulated water. If after either of these plans has been carried out for six weeks, the aneurism have become consolidated, or if, on the contrary, no benefit have resulted, the return to a fuller and more natural regimen must be very cautiously made; the increase must be slow and measured, and its effect must be carefully watched. I cannot but think that the reaction against the too copious and frequent bleedings of our forefathers is somewhat excessive. Indeed, at the present day, if a patient should be bled to the amount of a pint, his friends would, probably, ascribe all the subsequent evils, inseparable from his disease—per- haps even his ultimate death—to the venesection. Nevertheless I have no hesitation in saying, that, in certain cases, a suitable and perhaps a reiterated bleeding would, at the commencement of treatment, save much time, and enhance the efficacy of the diet system. This would more especially be the case, when, from pressure upon large veins, much congestion existed— the air-tubes being narrowed and the lungs hardly able to aerate the quan- tity of blood sent to them. In all such cases, to diminish the mass .of blood in the system gives rapid relief; but this must be done cautiously, since syn- cope must not be risked. The mere influence of bleeding on the action of the heart is, however, not the only point to be considered ; its effect on the blood itself is well ascertained, and even more important—namely rapid coagula- tion. This has been well shown by Thackrah, Gulliver, and others, and is one of nature’s most potent means of arresting, hemorrhage. In such, cases the facility with which the blood coagulates is in very close proportion to the amount which has been effused. Medicines, therefore, which act by simply reducing the force and rapidity of the heart’s action, cannot tend as directly to the cure of aneurism as a bleed- ing which has an equal cardiac influence; but they may in other ways be less injurious, and their effects may certainly be recovered from with less diffi- 1 The Successful Treatment of Internal Aneurism, etc. London, 1864; 2d edit., 1875. 2 Some patients with aortic aneurism cannot lie down; they must he supported day and night in a half-lying posture.