CONSTRICTION OR CRUSHING OP ARTERIES FOR ARREST OF HEMORRHAGE. 97 that secondary hemorrhage has followed torsion, and life been sacrificed, is, however, equally true; and I am not prepared to admit that torsion possesses any superiority over the ligature of carbolized catgut; indeed, I do not be- lieve that torsion equals it for general use as a haemostatic measure.1 V. Constriction or Crushing of Arteries for the Arrest of Hemorrhage. Dr. S. Fleet Speir, Surgeon to the Brooklyn City Hospital, has devised an in- strument for the instantaneous hermetical closure of arteries without the use of ligatures or other foreign substances to be left in the wound, which he calls the “ artery constrictor.” (Fig. 395.) Professor Hamilton and others speak highly of it from experience. Fig. 395. Speir’s artery constrictor. This instrument consists of a flattened metal tube, six inches (more or less) in length, open at both ends, with a sliding steel tongue running its entire length, and having a vise-like arrangement at the upper end by which the tongue may be protruded from or retracted within the tube or sheath. The lower end of the tongue is hook-shaped, so as\to be adapted to the artery to be constricted. It is so shaped that, having grasped the artery, it can be made to contract upon it by means of the vise at the upper end, which draws the tongue into the sheath. The hook of the tongue is so shaped and grooved as to form only a com- pressing surface, by means of which the artery, when acted upon by the force of the vise, is compelled to assume the form of the curve of the tongue, and the artery is constricted in such a way that the inner and middle coats give way, but the external coat is preserved intact. The severed inner and middle coats retract, curl upon themselves, and are driven down the artery, in the form of an invagination or plug, by the continued pressure of the grooved tongue as it passes into its sheath. The artery may now be slipped out of the instrument, and it will be found that the external coat has been com- pressed at the point where it was in contact with the instrument, and the inner and middle coats will be divided and invaginated on either side of the constriction. (Figs. 399, 400.) This invagination of the inner and middle coats is of itself sufficient to check the flow of blood. As soon as the cur- rent of blood is arrested in the tube, a coagulum forms upon the invaginated inner and middle coats, and this completes the occlusion. (Figs. 400, 401, 402.) The application of the constrictor is very simple. The artery is to be caught up by a tenaculum (Fig. 396), or by forceps (the latter is preferable), and the tongue of the constrictor placed around the vessel; the tongue is then drawn tightly upon the artery by means of the vise-like arrangement 1 In regard to the employment of torsion for the arrest of hemorrhage, Professor Esmarch (Surgeon’s Handbook, p. 185) says : “If there be no antiseptic material at hand for ligatures, the arteries may be closed by torsion;” and I am fully convinced that this is the only con- tingency which renders the use of torsion advisable. VOL. III.—7