LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. 159 due to rupture of the axillary vein, it is likely to be much less tense and rounded than when it is due to rupture of the axillary artery. The con- tinuance of the radial pulse when the axillary artery is torn open, denotes that its coats are perforated by a small aperture, that its canal remains open, and that possibly a cure may be effected by compressing the main artery on the cardiac side of the swelling, and by binding, at the same time, the arm to the trunk with a broad roller. Treatment.—Sir Charles Bell relates that, at the infirmary of Newcastle, strong efforts to reduce a dislocation of the shoulder ruptured, at the same time, the muscles and the axillary artery, so that it was necessary, to resort to immediate amputation.1 The operation failed to save the patient. Syme, however, has amputated in three cases where the axillary artery had sus- tained a rupture, with success in each instance; and in cases where gangrene follows this accident, amputation in the upper third of the arm, or at the shoulder-joint, is almost our sole expedient. "Warren tied the subclavian artery successfully in the following instance:-—- A man, aged 30, dislocated his shoulder whilst drunk. The reduction was immedi- ately effected with the operator’s boot in the axilla. A tumor formed in the armpit; forty-three days afterward it broke open, and two hemorrhages ensued. The sub- clavian artery was then tied in the third part of its course, and the life of the patient was saved.2 In the cases operated on by Mott and O’Reilly, which I have already presented, ligature of the subclavian artery was also followed by recovery. But in another case that was operated on by Nelaton, also presented above, ligature of the subclavian artery in the third part of its course was followed by bursting open of the aneurismal pouch, and by death from secondary hemorrhage. Furthermore, Panas has reported a case of axillary aneurism which supervened fifteen days after reducing a dislocation of the left shoulder. He tied the subclavian artery, external to the scaleni, but, three months after- wards, the patient died from suppuration of the aneurismal sac. The autopsy showed that the rupture had involved mainly the inner and middle tunics of the artery, and that it had occurred near the origin of the subscapular.3 These cases of Nelaton and Panas clearly show that ruptures of the axillary artery, when treated by ligation of the subclavian in the third part of its course, are very liable to be followed by bursting open of the axillary swelling, and by death from secondary hemorrhage or from suppuration of the aneurismal cavity. Blackman tied the axillary artery, in the first part of its course, without benefit, in the following case :— A physician, aged 50, presented himself with a dislocation of the shoulder down- ward and inward, of sixteen weeks’ duration, one unsuccessful attempt at reduction having been made ten weeks after the accident. Chloroform and ether (mixed) having been administered, the arm was adducted, rotated, abducted, and elevated; these manipulations having been continued about ten minutes, tumefaction appeared in the pectoral region, which in a few minutes attained considerable size, and it was then found that the radial and ulnar arteries had ceased to pulsate. Rupture of the axillary artery was diagnosed. The axillary itself was then tied in the upper part of its course, but the patient died on the twelfth day from secondary hemorrhage, occurring at the seat of ligation.4 The untoward result in this case shows very clearly, I think, how badly adapted the operation of Anel is for affording relief in all similar cases. 1 Malgaigne, TraitS des Fractures, etc., t. ii. p. 151. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1846, vol. xi. p. 539. 3 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Medecine et de Chirurgie pratiques, t. xiii. pp. 492, 493. Paris 1870. Hamilton, Fractures and Dislocations, p. 657.