ANEURISM. 490 while the French take as their boundary “ the clavicle,” a somewhat movable and uncertain line,1 and the Italians go still higher, making the subclavian cease at the outer border of the scalenus anticus. This ambiguity I have done my best to eliminate. Norris gives of deligations for axillary and subelavio-axillary aneurism (I omit operations for other conditions), 60 cases, of which 27 proved fatal—a death-rate of 45 per cent. Koch’s tables record 79 cases in which the subcla- vian artery was ligatured for axillary aneurism,2 of which 27 were fatal— a mortality of 34.3 per cent. Since the publication of Koch’s paper, which includes, I believe, all the cases noted by Norris, I gather from journals only 11 instances of this deligation, of which no less than 5 died, a mortality of 45.45 per cent. Thus:— Cases. Deaths. Mortality, per cent. Norris 60 27 45. Koch 79 27 34.1 Since 1869 11 5 45.45 If we put together the two last gatherings,3 4 we have:— Cases. Deaths. Mortality, per cent. 90 32 35.5 The causes of death in the 32 cases are thus distributed :*— Secondary hemorrhage from site of ligature 10 Suppuration or gangrene of the sac, usually with bleeding . . 105 Rupture of aneurism ......... 1 Gangrene ........... 1 Exhaustion ........... 3 Pyaemia ........... 2 Pulmonary or pleural complications ...... 3 Drunkenness, when nearly well ....... 1 Not stated ........... 1 These numbers seem to me to require still further examination—carrying division still further by separating the aneurisms which were purely axillary from those that encroached on the subclavian—because the larger number of cases which proved fatal from hemorrhage at the site of deligation, and some in which the bleeding came from the sac, were of the latter category ; and because, as we might expect, tying the third part of the subclavian when that division of the vessel participates in the disease, is not likely to prove a very successful procedure. Taken, then, in this wise, the statistics stand thus:— Cases. Recoveries. Deaths. Mortality, per cent. Axillary . . 61 46 15 24.6 Subelavio-axillary . 29 12 17 58.6 We may conclude, therefore, that to tie the third part of the subclavian ar- tery, when an aneurism encroaches upward beyond the border of the first rib, 1 Velpeau (Anatomie des Regions, tome i. p. 239) speaks of the lower end of the subclavian as lying on the first digitation of the serratus magnus. 2 Among these I include cases of what he terms infra-clavicular subclavian aneurism. My numbers vary from those quoted by Poland, probably from some difference in the mode of ana- lyzing the records. 3 Norris’s and Koch’s figures, since they include the same cases, cannot be added together. 4 Since these statistics were compiled, the essays of my friend, Dr. Wyeth, have been sent to me by their author. I find, at page 239, that he gives 75 cases of axillary aneurism as treated by deligation of the third part of the subclavian ; of these 28 terminated fatally, a mortality of 37 per cent.—a conclusion so similar to my own that I have thought it best not to alter my modifi- cations of, and additions to, the figures of Norris, Koch, and Poland, but to leave the two results as corroborative of each other’s accuracy. 5 Two of these cases had been treated with ergotine injections ; the sac was severely inflamed previous to operation.