INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 194 1 Circular No. 3, S. <3. 0., p. 236. be treated by removing all tbe coagula and exposing the aperture whence the blood issues distinctly to view, by completing the division of the artery whenever it is not complete, and by applying pressure to the ends of the divided artery with a finger in the wound. The success of this proceeding can be considerably aided by simultaneously compressing the trunk of the common carotid artery against the transverse processes of the vertebrae, on the same side as the wound (see Fig. 342, p. 68), with the thumb of the other hand. If in a short time the bleeding is not stanched by these proceedings, a ligature must be put on each end of the wounded artery. In cases where the ligatures, both proximal and distal, have been applied without previously dividing the artery, the artery should be divided midway between the liga- tures, so that retraction of the ends may take place. The hemorrhage from incised wounds of the neck involving the occipital, vertebral, or superior thyroid artery, should be treated on the same general plan as the hemorrhage from incised wounds of the carotids; the surgeon should explore the wound with an index finger, find the aperture in the vessel, from which he will feel the blood issue with each pulsation, place the tip of his finger on this aperture, enlarge the wound if necessary, apply a ligature on each side of the aperture, and finish by dividing the artery midway be- tween the two ligatures. In the following example, the' superior thyroid artery was severed by an incised wound, both ends were ligated, and the bleeding did not recur:— Private J. H., Co. K, 1st Infantry, aged 27, cut his throat with a razor November 3, 1866. The larynx was opened, and the superior thyroid artery was completely divided. When admitted to the post hospital he was nearly pulseless. Both ends of the divided artery were immediately ligated. The patient did very well, and seemed to improve until the evening of Nov. 5, when he had a choking fit, and died in a few minutes from asphyxia.1 The hemorrhage from incised wounds involving the arteries of other regions, for instance, the armpit, the groin, the thigh, etc., should be con- trolled in the same way by the surgeon. He should explore the wound with a finger, feel for the orifice in the wounded vessel from which a stream of blood issues in jets, cover it with the end of his finger, and keep it so covered until he can enlarge the wound, and tie the artery on each side of the aper- ture. He should also divide the artery midway between the two ligatures, unless this has already been done. Concerning the intercostal, internal mam- mary, internal epigastric, gluteal, vertebral, and many other different arteries, the reader may consult what has been said concerning them in describing the treatment of punctured wounds of arteries, pp. 117-135. The ligatures to be applied should always be antiseptic, and of animal origin. Both ends should be cut off near the knot; incised wounds should, as a rule, be closed immediately with interrupted sutures or with strips of adhesive plaster. In all wounds involving arteries, antiseptic dressings only should be applied. Transfusion is likely to prove useful in many cases of anaemic exhaustion, when it is due to excessive loss of blood from the incised wounds of arteries, and the possible utility of this procedure should not be overlooked in the after-treatment of such cases. "Wounds of Veins. Complaints are justly made that this topic receives scant notice in some works on surgery, although the wounds of veins are of frequent occurrence,