297 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. arises a little above the great cornu of the os hyoides, and passes obliquely to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves over the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the inner canthus of the eye, where it is named the angular artery. Over the buccinator muscle its course is tortuous to accommodate itself to the movements of the jaw. Below the jaw, it passes under the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles; on the body of the jaw it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides, and lies on the periosteum in a groove which is found at the junc- tion of the posterior third with the anterior two-thirds of the body of the bone. The facial vein runs on its outer side. The groove just mentioned is the point usually selected for the deligation of the artery. Operation.—Having recognized the pulsations of the artery, make an in- cision one inch in length, along its course over the body of the lower jaw, as just described (Fig. 476), through the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma Fig. 476. Ligation of the facial and temporal arteries. (Sedillot.) myoides; separate the lips of the incision, and detach the connective tissue from the artery, which is thus exposed ; draw the facial vein and masseter muscle outward, and pass the needle between the two vessels. Ligation of the Temporal Artery.—This artery is the more superficial of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It commences in the substance of the parotid gland, opposite the meatus auditorius externus, ascends almost longitudinally over the root of the zygoma, and, at one inch and a half or two inches above the zygomatic arch, divides into the anterior and posterior temporal branches. Operation.—Having determined the position of the artery by its pulsations, make an incision through the skin, one iueh in length, at a point above the zygoma and in front of the ear, then divide the dense connective tissue on a director, and the artery will be exposed. Pass the needle from behind forward, in order to avoid the temporal vein and the auriculo-temporal nerve (Fig. 476). Ligation of the Occipital Artery.—The occipital artery arises from the external carotid, opposite the facial, passes backward beneath the posterior belly of the digastric, stylo-hyoid, trachelo-mastoid, and sterno-mastoid