678 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. forearm behind the wrist, and resembles in general causation and pathology the last-mentioned luxation, except as to the direction of the displacement. Dislocations at the wrist are reduced without great difficulty by making traction upon the hand and pressing the bones toward their places with the thumbs and fingers. As in other joints, compound dislocations should be treated antiseptically. Excision, rather than amputation, should be preferred in these cases. Dislocations op the Lower Extremity op the Ulna.—Luxations occur in which the lower end of the ulna is thrown decidedly forward or backward without the radius participating in the displacement. The causes in the few cases cited seem to have been various, including falls, muscular action alone, and, in several cases, simple extension, as by lifting the weight of the body by the hands. The fibro-cartilage is ruptured, and the extremity of the bone is thrown in front of or behind the radius, as the case may be, making either the forward or the backward luxation. The treatment consists simply in pressing the bones into place, in the forward form supinating the hand, and in the backward pronating it, to assist the replacement. It is said by Moore, of Rochester, that the styloid process of the ulna sometimes becomes engaged under the annular ligament, so as to resist the reduction. He advises strongly to flex the hand, and abduct it also toward the radial side, in order to unlock the styloid process. If it cannot be so disentangled in cases where it is held in this way, a careful section of the border of the ligament with a tenotome, and under full antiseptic precau- tions, will be justifiable. This injury very commonly is accompanied by fracture. The displacement of the fragments may prevent reduction in such cases, and if the deformity appear slight, it may be neglected, especially in cases of impaction, wherein it seems important not to dislodge the bone. If the deformity be very great, then the risk must be taken of dislodging the impaction. Anterior and posterior splints, with suitable compresses, may be used to retain the bone for several weeks after reduction. Dislocations between the Bones of the Carpus.—These are rare, obscure, and meagerly described. Undoubted cases of dislocation of a single bone have, however, occurred. When found in time, such cases are to be treated by direct pressure, and such position of the hand as experiment shows to favor retention. Compresses and splints to maintain immobility are requisite in the after-treatment. Dislocations of the Hand. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones.—The metacarpal bones are not often dislocated, that of the thumb being the only luxation at all frequent, and this only relatively so, as all forms are rare. The metacarpal bone of the thumb may be displaced either forward or backward from its articulating surface on the trapezium. In the backward form of dislocation, the cause seems to have been extreme flexion, or the infliction of blows upon the extremity of the thumb, driving it back while flexed. Reduction should be effected by extension upon the thumb, combining this with direct pressure upon the bone itself in the direction of its articular surface. In forward dislocation, the thumb will be found to present a vacuity at the