230 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 3 Med. and Surg. History, etc., First Surg. Vol., p. 622. lived 5 days.1 Dr. G. F. Dudley2 reports a case of pistol-ball in the heart, in which the patient lived 4 days. Symptoms of Heart Wounds.—These are often very obscure. There may be present, in cases of wound which penetrate the region of the heart, great prostration of strength with swooning or syncope, a thready, weak, irregular pulse, a feeble and tumultuous action of the heart, precordial distress and anxiety, with dyspnoea and other signs of hemorrhage into the pericardial and pleural sacs, pallor, cold sweats, a husky voice and excessive thirst, to- gether with a systolic bellows murmur or other abnormal sounds, without establishing anything more than a strong presumption that the heart itself is wounded. But, although the traumatic lesions of the heart are not attended by any symptoms that are peculiar to, or characteristic of them, the concurrence or coincidence of most of the phenomena just mentioned, in a case where the patient is wounded in the cardiac region, will render the diagnosis of a cardiac wound highly probable. According to Dr. Fischer’s statistics, the phenomena which usually predominate in cases of sudden death from this lesion are those of sudden syncope or collapse; not unfrequently a hurried exclamation or a convulsive gasping occurs; but the popular notion that persons spring into the air when shot or stabbed through the heart, is not supported by the facts. In the causation of sudden death from traumatic lesions of the heart, there are three important factors: (1) Shock; (2) Anaemia of the brain and lungs, directly caused by the escape of blood from the chambers of the heart: (3) Arrest of the cardiac, movement by compression resulting from disten- sion of the pericardium with extravasated blood. Oftentimes, in such cases, a necroscopy shows the heart firmly contracted and empty, with much extra- vasation of blood in the pericardial and pleural sacs. Traumatic carditis is a very infrequent complication, if, indeed, it ever does occur. During the late civil war, enough examples of cardiac wounds in which the fatal issue was sufficiently delayed to afford time for the develop- ment of inflammatory phenomena, were observed, to warrant the conclusion that inflammation of the heart is as infrequently the result of injury, as of disease. The late Dr. Otis carefully examined two specimens from patients who had survived, for a fortnight or more, shot wounds grazing the heart, in which the pericardium was thickened, and the visceral as well as the re- flected layer of the pericardium thickly coated with shaggy exudations; but the muscular structure presented no alterations discernible by the microscope.5 Professor Gross is possessed of a pericardium, taken from a man, aged 22, which contains an encysted needle two inches in length, giving evidence of having been long a harmless intruder. This specimen illustrates the indis- position of the parts to take on inflammatory action. Treatment.—At first, the posture of the patient must be recumbent, with the head low, in order to avoid a fatal syncope from cerebral anaemia. Ex- ternal warmth should be applied to the extremities and along the spine. Opium or morphia should be administered to quiet alarm and restlessness, as well as to allay pain. In many cases the surgeon’s hope must rest upon the continuance for some time of a condition approaching collapse, by which the power of the heart will be greatly lessened and the stability of a clot more assured. If signs of a dangerous reaction appear, the tincture of veratrum viride should be employed to restrain the heart’s action (Agnew). Should life be prolonged, and inflammatory phenomena arise, reliance must be placed on blisters, opium, and cardiac sedatives ; and should distension of the peri- 1 St. Thomas’s Hospital Reports, 1874, p. 420. 2 Medical Record, 1871-2, p. 156.