INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. 670 After-treatment.—After reduction of a dislocated shoulder, the great proneness to reluxation requires that the arm shall be supported by binding the elbow against the body, and that a small axillary pad shall be used to keep the head of the bone well out. This may be worn six or eight days, after which more freedom of the arm can safely be allowed. The patient is to be cautioned that for several weeks he must on no account raise the arm above the shoulder-level, or put it to any violent use; but other movements should be practised, at least passively, and the axillary pad should be removed. Dislocation of the long head of the biceps from the bicipital groove sometimes causes a puzzling deformity after a successful reduction, or even when there has been no luxation. Without being ruptured, this tendon is not certainly known ever to have been dislocated, although commonly so stated by old authors. No treatment is beneficial except rest to the limb. Old Dislocations of the Humerus.—A majority of dislocated shoulders become incurable after twelve weeks, though a small number are reducible after a much greater length of time. The shoulder has been reduced after two years, to my personal knowledge, and doubtless many ancient cases have been too hastily abandoned as intractable, for fear of injury, their hopelessness being prejudged rather than satisfactorily tested, from the slight encourage- ment given in most surgical works. Jarvis’s adjuster is so essential an instrument in old dislocations, that little success or safety can be expected without it, save in cases not really very dif- ficult. I do not know what success could be expected in ancient dislocations, where a combination of strong traction and very free manipulation offers the chief hope of loosening inveterate adhesions, were it not for the facility afforded by this inimitable piece of mechanism for obtaining these two forces in conjunction. Yet it is certain that the data upon which conclusions have been based heretofore have been mainly in the use of the old methods. The danger attending efforts to reduce old dislocations of the humerus must be accepted as a constant factor, which should be well understood by the patient before submitting to this operation, exactly as in other surgical pro- cedures. Besides the fracture of the surgical neck, and even of a rib, which have been known to occur in the yiolent efforts of operators to effect reduc- tion, there is constantly to be feared a rupture of the axillary vein or artery, or both, accidents which usually have proved fatal. In one case this resulted from the sharp angle of a boot-heel carelessly used for counter-extension. Drawing the limb forcibly upward, subjects the vessels to a violent strain in all cases where they have become glued to the head of the bone by inflam- matory adhesions in its new position. In the same manner, the innervation of the parts helow the axilla may be wholly or partly destroyed. It is not known that any care can enable us to know what cases are most subject to this risk. The accident has usually occurred in the practice of eminent sur- geons, and so frequently that the danger is certainly no slight one. In one remarkable case, recorded by Guerin, the surgeon tore an arm completely from the body of an aged woman, in making violent extension to reduce a long displaced humerus. Notwithstanding the extreme caution necessary, and the actual danger to life, even with extreme caution, I believe that within six months after dislo- cation, a certain amount of effort is justifiable, when the patient so desires after a full knowledge of the circumstances, especially in those frequent in- stances where, from pressure upon the axillary trunks, the arm is rendered useless, or there are great distress and pain. Even after a long period, adhe- sions do not always take place to a serious extent, and reduction, when