302 INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. Operation at the First Part.—To tie the right subclavian on the tracheal side of the scaleni, place the patient on his back, with his shoulders raised and his head turned to the opposite side. Make two incisions, one parallel to the inner por- tion of the clavicle, and the other along the inner border of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle, each three inches in length, and joining at an acute angle. Pass a director behind the sternal attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid, and divide it as well as the connective tissue; avoid small arteries and veins in this place, especially the anterior jugular vein. Divide, likewise, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles on a director. Open the deep cervi- cal fascia by scratching it with a finger nail or end of the director, and expose the internal jugular vein, which being pressed aside (inward), pass the needle around the artery from below upward to avoid the pleura. To tie the left subclavian on the tracheal side of the scaleni, place the patient in a position corresponding to that above described. Make an incision three and one-half inches long, through the skin and platysma myoides, on the inner edge of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, terminating at the sternum; this is to be met by another incision along the sternal part of the clavicle, two and one-half inches in length. Divide the sternal and half of the clavicular origin of the sterno- cleido-mastoid muscle on a director, and raise the angular ,flap. Penetrate the deep fascia with the handle of the scalpel and the fingers. Continue the dissection along the outer side of the internal jugular vein to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle, half an inch above the first rib, to avoid the thoracic duct. The phrenic nerve must be recognized and avoided; and the fingers pressed to the bottom of the wound will discover the rib, and then the artery. Pass the needle from below upward. (J. Kearney Rodgers.) Operation at the Second Part.—The portion of the artery embraced between the scaleni muscles is very short. It is covered by the skin, the platysma myoides, the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, and the scalenus anticus, upon which rests the phrenic nerve; below, lies the pleura ; and above, the brachial plexus of nerves. Lay bare the deep cervical fascia by an incision three and one-half inches in length, parallel to and half an inch above the clavicle, com- mencing at the inner edge of the trapezius muscle. Penetrate this fascia by tearing it with the handle of the scalpel and with the fingers. Divide the outer part of the clavicular origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Find the tubercle of the first rib, and the insertion into it of the scalenus anticus. Bring into view the phrenic nerve as it passes over this muscle, in order to avoid it. Begin at the outer edge of the muscle, some distance from the rib, and cautiously divide its fibres from before backward, and from without inward ; the retraction of the severed fibres will expose the artery. The por- tion of the muscle upon which rests the phrenic nerve must not be disturbed. If the muscle be incised too near the rib, the internal mammary artery may be wounded. Pass the needle from without inward. Operation at the Third Part, or the Point of Election.—To tie the subclavian artery external to the scaleni muscles, place the patient on his back with the shoulders moderately raised, the head extended, the face turned somewhat to the opposite side, and the arm drawn downward. Make an incision through the skin, two and one-half or three inches in length, about half an inch above and parallel to the clavicle, from the anterior border of the trapezius to the posterior border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Divide the platysma, with the superficial fascia, and the border of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle will be exposed; the external jugular vein must not be injured. With the fingers and the handle of the scalpel divide the connective and adipose tissue. The omo-hyoid muscle and supra-scapular artery are to be drawn upward. Continue the dissection, by means of the fingers and the handle of the scalpel only, through the adipose and connective tissue with its veins, to the scalenus