279 PARENCHYMATOUS HEMORRHAGE. Secondary hemorrhage from small arteries in deep cavities, where ligatures cannot readily be applied, may be suppressed by applying the actual cautery. The employment of carbolized catgut ligatures, antiseptic dressings, and thorough drainage by means of tubes of appropriate size, has already been insisted on with sufficient energy. Parenchymatous Hemorrhage. This form of bleeding did not receive mention until a very recent period. Ho account of it whatever is given by Guthrie, Hennen, or their predeces- sors. Stromeyer appears to have been the first to call attention to it. In cases of parenchymatous hemorrhage, the blood does not issue from the wounded, granulating, or ulcerating part in distinct streams, but seems to escape by a general oozing through minute apertures. We therefore infer that the capillaries constitute its anatomical source, and that it is in reality a capillary hemorrhage. In such cases the blood flows in a steady stream. It does not in general possess the purple hue of venous, nor yet the bright- red color of arterial blood. It is in general not as dark as the former, nor as bright as the latter. It therefore usually has a distinct color of its own, and this, conjoined with the flow of the escaping blood in a steady stream, has led me to correctly surmise, in some instances where these phenomena were present, that the hemorrhage was parenchymatous in character, before the interior of the wound from which it issued had been exposed to view. Parenchymatous hemorrhage has been met with in the primary, the inter- mediary, and the secondary periods in the history of wounds ; but the causes or pathological conditions upon which its occurrence depends are, for the most part, widely different in each of these periods, especially in the primary and secondary periods. Parenchymatous hemorrhage has been encountered during the primary period in the stumps of limbs just amputated, where the operation has been performed through tissues that had previously been inflamed, and in which the inflammatory process had not yet entirely subsided. Such a hemorrhage is due to the fact that the dilated capillaries which have been severed by the knife in performing the operation, being still paralyzed from the inflamma- tory process, are unable to close their open mouths by the contraction of their muscular tunics, and that therefore the hemorrhage continues without impediment until it is suppressed by surgical art or by the occurrence of syncope, or until death occurs. Parenchymatous hemorrhage has been met with during the intermediary period in cases of amputation where the mouths of the capillaries have been but feebly or imperfectly closed in the primary period, so that when reaction has come on, with the vascular excitement and increased blood-pi’essure which attend it, the capillary orifices have been reopened, and capillary hemorrhage has ensued. In such cases, more or less parenchymatous bleeding usually attends the operation itself, and, occasionally, the capillary oozing continues in a minor degree until the advent of the intermediary period, when the capil- lary bleeding becomes more and more copious as the vascular excitement rises higher and higher. When parenchymatous hemorrhage occurs during the secondary period, it is generally associated with the symptoms of pyaemia, or, at least, with pyse- moid phenomena, and is caused by obstruction of the veins which proceed from the seat of the hemorrhage toward the heart, with coagulated blood or thrombus, as was pointed out by Stromeyer. The state of affairs, as far as the circulation of blood is concerned, in a wounded limb, the principal veins of