ANEURISM. 450 exhausted by loss of blood. As in secondary hemorrhage from the site of deligation, so in bleeding from a suppurating sac—more especially if in the lower limb—gangrene is very apt to follow the renewed application of ligatures.1 Most of the mortality from suppuration of the sac after ligature is due to hemorrhage. There are, however, other dangers, viz., exhaustion, hectic, and blood poisoning; these must be combated on those principles which are de- tailed in other portions of this work. Gangrene of the limb after ligature does not materially differ from certain forms of gangrene from other causes, as for instance from embolism or from arterial disease, so that it will not require any separate description or recom- mendations for treatment in this place. It has been said (p. 438) that occasionally, after the application of a ligature, pulsation, having for a time been annulled, may return ; and several modes of recurrence, as immediate, early, and late, have been enumerated. Immediate, recurrent, or continuous pulsation is often due to anatomical abnormity,2 which should at once be investigated; but if very slight, it may he the consequence of a previous attempt at cure by pressure, which has too greatly enlarged the collateral vessels. Early recurrence—that is to say in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours—is, as a rule, due to large collaterals, and, therefore, is more common at those places where normal inosculations are large. Unless the pulsation be considerable, its prognosis is favorable, but not if the aneurism beat as strongly, or nearly as strongly, as before the operation, and if it continue to increase.3 Recurrence in about a fortnight offers a less favorable prospect. Secondary aneurism, that is, a new sac, arising close to the site of the former tumor (a somewhat rare event), either manifests itself shortly after the patient begins to move about, or some months afterwards. In all these circumstances, save when very slight pul- sation occurs within forty-eight hours, a pad upon the aneurism, secured by a moderately tight bandage, should be emploj ed ; the extremity must be watched lest gangrene be produced. The limb may be raised, and if it be the lower one—especially if the aneurism be popliteal—flexion may be employed. Pressure (digital, in preference) may be applied above the place of deligation. Cold, applied by means of ice, has been recommended, but must be used with the greatest caution. If the ligature have given way, the vessel should be tied again with the ox aorta ligature, above and below the seat of primary deligation, or the vessel may be thus doubly retied with hemp, and divided where the first ligature was placed. Indications for and against Deligation.—These may, in part, be gathered from the above account of its failures and its dangers. The circumstances which should deter from operation may be such as affect the system, or, at least, the circulatory system, generally, and such as belong to the particular vessel involved, and to the aneurism.4 Heart disease, namely, mitral or aortic incompetence, if well marked^ would negative ligature, especially of a considerable vessel; slighter affections of the same sort would not do so. A very weak heart, believed to have thin 1 Some writers have spoken with despair of tying vessels leading to a bleeding, suppurating sac. I believe that the newer forms of soluble ligature place this matter on an entirely different footing from that which it has hitherto occupied. 2 That is to say in proximal, of course not in distal deligation. 3 Some cases of recurrence from failure of the ligature are noted at p. 442. 4 It is presupposed, in the ensuing paragraphs, unless stated to the contrary, that the aneu- rism is not in a condition very rapidly to destroy life, and that other measures have been either tried, or for some good reason rejected.