233 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMINAL AND PELVIC BLOODVESSELS. 2 Ibid., pp. 255, 256. 1 Med. and Surg. Hist., etc., First Surg. Vol., p. 314. and the case just related serves well to illustrate, in other respects, the sound- ness of the views above presented. But compound fractures of the skull, especially when caused by fire-arms, are not unfrequently attended by secondary hemorrhage from the middle menin- geal artery, which will' prove fatal unless it is suppressed by the surgeon in a timely manner. What is the best plan of treatment ? In two cases of gunshot (shell) fracture of the skull involving also the middle meningeal artery, that were reported during the war of the Rebellion, in which the hemorrhage was uncontrollable by other means, it was perma- nently arrested by tying the common carotid artery. The following is a brief account of them:—- Private Wm. C. Andrews, Co. A, 30th Iowa Volunteers, aged 19, was wounded by a fragment of shell in the left temporal region, at Vicksburg, December 28, 1862. He was treated in a field hospital until January 17, 1863, when he was admitted to Law- son Hospital, St. Louis. On the 18th, hemorrhage amounting to twelve ounces occurred from the middle meningeal artery, and, all other means failing, was arrested by Dr. C. T. Alexander, U. S. Army, by tying the common carotid artery. The hemorrhage did not recur. The patient was discharged from the service on May 28. He was a pensioner in March, 1868, and the Pension Examiner reported that he had dizziness and faintness on exertion or stooping, and partial anaesthesia of the left side of the face, being compelled to keep his room in the cold winters of Madison, Iowa, from liability of the left ear and side of the face to be frozen. He continued in tolerable health on June 4, 1872, nearly ten years after the operation.1 Sergt. Joseph Dougherty, Co. B, 69th New York Vols., aged 23, sustained a fracture of the right parietal bone by a shell, at Spottsylvania, May 13, 1864. He was brought to hospital at Alexandria. A fragment of bone was removed. Hemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery occurred, of such a character as to compel Dr. E. Bentley, U. S. Vols., to ligate the common carotid artery. “ The hemorrhage did not recur ; but the patient succumbed on the thirteenth day, after a series of chills and other phenomena of pysemic infection.”2 When we are sure that the hemorrhage proceeds from the middle menin- geal artery, we should ligature the external carotid, of which the middle meningeal is a branch, instead of the common carotid artery; for the ligation of the former is much less likely to be followed by cerebral softening and other bad consequences, per se, than the ligation of the latter, while it is quite as likely to control the bleeding. In cases of secondary hemorrhage from the middle meningeal artery, as well as in those of primary hemorrhage, the bleeding vessel should, if possible, be ligatured by the surgeon where it is injured. But when it is not feasible to do that, as will not unfrequently happen, while the wound is suppurating, the external carotid should be tied. Moreover, the performance of the operation should not he delayed from any expectation that because the artery is a small one, the bleeding can be stanched by minor procedures. Should, unhappily, the operation be deferred while the trial of compression and styptics is continued in such cases, the hemorrhage will continually recur as soon as the patient rallies from each successive bleeding, until finally he will become so much exhausted from loss of blood that the successful ligation of the external carotid will be impossible. Wounds of the Abdominal and Pelvic Bloodvessels. These wounds are extremely dangerous, and their great perilousness results from the hemorrhage—which usually is internal, and therefore concealed from