224 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS tive. Thus, Wagret’s patient, after a physician had made attempts to propel the bone, “ experienced entire relief, and said to his benefactor that he thanked him very much, and that he had saved his life.” But a few days later this patient died of perforation of, and hemorrhage from, the descending aorta. (Poulet.) The first hemorrhage, in these cases, generally does not cause death; it ceases, for the time being, and the patients merely remain in a state of ex- treme weakness. Surgeons have been struck by this intermittence of the hemorrhage, and have endeavored to explain the manner in which a vessel as large as the thoracic aorta may cease to bleed after its walls are perforated. Shetter attributes the intermittence to two causes : 1, a temporary occlusion of the opening in the artery; 2, the weakness of the cardiac contractions. The process is a natural haemostasis, like that described by Yalsalva. The blood, being pushed with less force by the weakened heart, and being changed in composition, is in a condition the most favorable for forming obstructive clots. But when the heart recovers its energy, and the condition of collapse gives place to commencing reaction, the clot is displaced, and the hemorrhage reappears. The interval between the hemorrhages is usually not considerable, varying from a few hours to a few days. In some cases, especially when the perforation is small and is situated low down, all the blood extravasated flows into the stomach and thence passes into the intestines. The patient then suddenly presents, in the midst of perfect health, all the symptoms of an in- ternal hemorrhage, whose explanation is very difficult. In one case this internal hemorrhage was manifested by some colicky pains, as the only sub- jective symptom. It is hardly necessary to add that all the remedial measures thus far tried have proved fruitless.1 Wounds of the Innominate.—During the late civil war, two cases in which the innominate artery was wounded came under treatment. The first patient survived twenty-four days, as follows :— A soldier, aged 20, was wounded July 1, 1863, by a rifle-ball, which entered above the clavicle, passed behind the sternum, and emerged between the fourth and fifth ribs. On the 22d, hemorrhage from the arteria innominata occurred, for which compression was applied. Death followed on the 25th.2 It is highly probable that in this case the missile contused the tunics of the innominate artery, and that the bruised tissue exulcerated or separated as a slough at the end of three weeks, whereby the canal of the artery was opened, thus allowing a secondary hemorrhage to ensue. The second patient lived six days after the casualty, as follows:— A soldier, aged 26, was wounded October 27,1864, by a conoidal ball, which entered at the right upper angle of the sternum, passed behind the clavicle, and lodged in the thorax. The wound was plugged with lint, and the man was kept as quiet as pos- sible. On the 31st, under choloroform, the wound was explored for the ball, which caused profuse hemorrhage. Plugging the wound, with the use of a compress and bandage, was the only resource. On November 1, the patient had much dyspnoea, caused by haemothorax. The trachea was compressed by blood extravasated in the mediastinum. On the 2d he died. Necroscopy—The missile was found resting against the innominate artery, whose canal it had opened, causing a diffused aneurism. The aperture was oval, nearly half an inch in length, situated on the front part of the vessel, just below its bifurcation.3 By exploring the wound with a finger, in this case, the surgeon might have detected the orifice in the innominate artery, and by covering the 1 Ibid., p. 94. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 520. 2 Ibid., pp. 520, 521.