118 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. one on each side of the bleeding orifice, as recommended by the ancient sur- geons. But before this operation can be performed it is often advisable to restrain the bleeding by compressing the wounded orifice and main trunk of the injured artery, with the fingers, or with a suitable tourniquet, or with Esmarch’s elastic bandage, according to methods which have already been described, whether the blood be escaping through an external wound or infiltrating the connective tissue around the artery. With regard to the employment of compression for punctured wounds of arteries, the rule is to consider it a temporary expedient, since it often procures only transient relief, and leaves the patient exposed to false consecutive aneurism. There are, however, some important exceptions to this rule, which will presently be mentioned. A ligature should be applied on the distal as well as on the proximal side of the aperture, because, unless this he done, the hemorrhage is liable to occur again, as soon as the parts beyond the wound become well supplied with blood through the anastomosing branches or collateral channels. The blood then regurgitates in the distal part of the artery, and is very liable to force its way through the distal orifice, unless the artery is here also closed with a ligature. The artery should moreover be divided midway between the two ligatures, so that both ends can freely retract. Punctured Wounds of Special Arteries.— Vertebral Arteries.—We pass now to the consideration of some points in the treatment of punctured wounds of arteries which are surrounded with great difficulties. No single point, perhaps, is more puzzling than to devise a satisfactory plan of treating wounds of the vertebral artery. Almost all the recorded cases, and their num- ber is not small, have proved fatal. This vessel lies so deep, and the diagnosis of its lesions is so difficult, that in eleven instances of traumatic aneurism involving it, the carotid has been tied through mistake. The explanation is that when the carotid is compressed against the so-called carotid tubercle of Chassaignac, on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the ver- tebral artery also is compressed, at its point of entry into the foramen of the transverse process. The deception is not removed by compressing the carotid at a higher point, for the vertebral may pass up the front of the transverse processes. In recent wounds, the best way to ascertain the vessel from which the blood issues, is to insert into the wound a finger, with which the jets of arterial blood may generally be felt, and the.relation of the wounded vessel and of the hemorrhage to the transverse processes of the vertebrae deter- mined. Ligature of the vertebral artery for practical purposes is impossible except in a portion about six centimetres, or two and three-eighths inches, long, between its origin and its entrance into the transverse foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra. In this part of its course it has been successfully tied by Smyth, of New Orleans, for regurgitating hemorrhage; in this part, also, it has been tied, together with the inferior thyroid artery, by Maison- neuve, in order to arrest hemorrhage attending a shot wound of the neck— with success, as far as stopping the hemorrhage and extracting the ball were concerned, though death occurred from infiltration of pus into the spinal canal, and consequent inflammation. But these successes, complete and partial, afford some encouragement. Having determined by exploring the wound with a finger, or by any other means, that the vertebral artery is punctured in this part of its course, the bleeding point should at once be laid bare, and a ligature should be put round the artery on each side of the aperture. But when the exploration shows that the artery is wounded above the point where it enters the foramen of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, how can we suppress the bleeding and save the patient? We can- not tie the artery in the wound ; and to tie it in the first part of its course,