385 CAUSES OF ANEURISM. every vessel of the body carrying red blood may be affected; those which carry venous blood, and the pulmonary veins, are almost entirely exempt. The results of the inflammation, characterized by hyperplasia and prolife- ration in the deeper layer of the inner coat, are two. First, what in the commencement appears like a mere thickening of the tunic, which adheres with unusual tenacity to the underlying structure. This thickened patch, though still covered by epithelium, is somewhat duller, of a more opaque, yellowish-white than the rest of the surface, and elevated above it; in other words, it encroaches on the vascular area. In a later phase of its development, this patch becomes still harder and firmer, semi-cartilaginous in consistence, and puckered on its inner surface, while encroaching more and more on the middle coat whose whole thickness it may ultimately occupy. But it is to be observed that the encroachment does not, at all events till a late stage, dimi- nish the calibre of the vessel, which up to a late phase of the disease is greater than normal, while its length also is increased. The microscope shows this indurated and thickened spot to consist of ramified spindle-cells, inter- mixed with firm and apparently thickened bands of fibrous tissue continuous on one side or the other with the healthy structure of the surrounding tunic. The elements, cellular as well as fibrous, are at this stage healthy; but some- times fat globules are interspersed among them. Another less frequent form is often present on the same artery with the denser thickening; it is distinguished by its jelly-like consistence and pale, pink color; it is more superficial in its origin than the form first described, but still lies beneath the epithelial lining of the vessel, under which it may be pushed a little way hither and thither; it may occur in small patches, or may occupy larger portions of the tissue. The new formation, under the microscope, is seen to consist of oat-shaped and spindle-shaped cells running in lines crossing each other in all directions, and inclosing an amorphous ground substance, studded often with bare nuclei; in fact, it bears the strongest resemblance to granulation tissue. To the unassisted eye, both these conditions produce on the inner surface of the artery wart-like or hob-nail elevations of various sizes, from that of a mustard-seed to that of a horse-bean, or even larger; these are somewhat flattened towards the area of the vessel, ovoid rather than round, with the long axis in the circumference, or else quite irregular, and in this phase covered by epithelium. Between any two such elevations, especially of the former sort, the inner coat is often puckered, while the middle appears thinned and weak. The fate of these two varieties is somewhat different, or at least is often dif- ferent. From my own investigations, I have strong grounds for believing that the latter form not unfrequently hardens and forms a sort of inflammatory or cicatricial tissue, which may then undergo the same ultimate changes as the former species, or may, like all tissue resulting from granulations, shorten and contract, thus producing those puckerings and indentations so frequent on the inner surfaces of large arteries. But occasionally the granulation, if I may so term it, having invaded the deeper layer of the inner, as also a vari- able thickness of the middle tunic, and having undergone, first on its inner face, a puro-fatty change, eats through the epithelial pellicle, and falls little by little into the blood stream, leaving behind a usually small ulcer, leading into a somewhat larger cavity of a depth equivalent to the amount of its invasion. The . more frequent result of the inflammation—the dense, yellow, semi- cartilaginous thickening—may remai n passive a very long time. Large vessels, chiefly the aorta, may be so studded with the projections thus produced that the name endarteritis deformans, given by Virchow, is by no means a misnomer. vol. hi.—25