582 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. diversity of the nerves as of symptoms sufficiently characteristic of nerve- inflammation. With Rothnagel and Labadie Lagrave, we will now study neuritis in the sensory nerves, in the motor nerves, and in the mixed nerves. (1) Neuritis of Sensory Nerves.—Spontaneous pain is the principal symp- tom; it is sharp, lancinating, or dull, in acute neuritis; it follows the course of the nerve, and extends even into the peripheral ramifications; sometimes it takes a centripetal course; it is often continuous and without paroxysms— which would serve to distinguish it from the pains of neuralgia, if occasion- ally neuritis itself did not cause painful paroxysms; pain also cannot he con- sidered as pathognomonic of neuritis in the subacute or chronic forms (Laba- die Lagrave1). Pressure increases the pain, even when it is not applied to the inflamed point. According to Baerwinkel, the pain thus provoked has a centripetal direction; this would be characteristic of neuritis, but it is far from being always so. We should believe rather in the presence of a neu- ritis, if the pressure determined pain over a long extent of the course of the nerve. bTothnagel has made an important remark, namely, that in a circumscribed neuritis there are neuralgic paroxysms along the entire course of the nerve, with periods of apparently complete remission, hut during which a conti- nuous pain persists at the level of the inflamed point. Muscular hypersesthesia has been given by Weir Mitchell as a sign of neuritis, even in the absence of cutaneous hypersesthesia. At a later period, the loss of tactile sensibility is observed; this ansesthesia is due to the destruc- tion of the nerve fibres below the diseased point, but the spontaneous pains persist, for the irritation which exists above the diseased point continues to be transmitted to the brain. There is then a painful ansesthesia. Sometimes the ansesthesia shows itself early, in acute neuritis (ISTothnagel), and over limited points of the territory of the nerve. These patches of circumscribed anses- thesia have been observed in herpes zoster by Charcot, Rendu, and Damas- chino. Hybord has observed ansesthesia in ophthalmic zona, and Rendu has studied it in ansesthetic leprosy. (2) Neuritis of Motor Nerves.—The history of neuritis of the motor nerves is little known; its only characteristic symptom is paralysis, which, however, is not constant when the inflammation is slight, or when there is only a peri- neuritis. It is generally preceded by tremblings, muscular shocks, convul- sions, and contractions; but these phenomena may exist without there being any signs of nerve inflammation. What is the pathogenesis of these contractions ? Do they result from direct, centrifugal irritation of affected motor filaments, or are they of a reflex na- ture? ISTothnagel, while recognizing the frequency of contractions in neuritis, does not venture to decide upon their symptomatic value, nor upon their mode of origin. When degeneration of the nerve supervenes, paralysis occurs ; it is quite rapidly developed, and is characterized by the abolition of voluntary and reflex movements, and by the loss of electric contractility. Motor disturbances may be the consequence of an interstitial, or of a parenchymatous neuritis; the latter especially gives rise to grave and obsti- nate palsies, while slight paresis is the result of perineuritis. There is one important symptom of neuritis: muscular atrophy, or dys- trophia, which is sometimes precocious. Landouzy has made a complete study of it as regards the sciatic nerve, and he has made it a diagnostic sign 1 Sometimes the pain is excessive, and in nervous persons is accompanied with agitation, convulsions, and delirium.