719 CONTUSIONS OF JOINTS—IRRITABLE JOINTS. kneading {massage), followed by the application of a bandage, the fluid can be pressed away to less irritated regions, whence it may be absorbed. This effect is rendered possible by the fact, that all the cavities of the connective tissue communicate wTith each other freely, like the meshes of a sponge. Professor Agnew would postpone massage longer, but experience proves that gentle stroking, with deft and equable hand-pressure, from below upwards, soothes the pain, diminishes the tenderness, and presses away the irritating secretions into other non-inflamed portions of the connective tissue. There is no harm but much benefit to be gained by this measure, if employed with skill and care once or twice a day. (4) As soon as the acute inflammation, or the tendency to it, is somewhat abated, we must bear in mind the liability of the lacerated layers of liga- mentous fibres to form abnormal adhesions among themselves, and to adja- cent nerve fibres; hence we must, after a few days, follow the stroking mas- sage, first with passive, and then with active movements of the joint, in all the directions of its normal motion. In case the synovial membrane participates in the inflammation, the active and passive exercise must be greatly limited. The diagnosis can generally be assisted by pressing the joint surfaces firmly together, in such a way as not to strain any of the tender ligaments. If acute synovitis exists, this pressure will elicit pain, and, as all friction and pressure of inflamed syno- vial surfaces upon each other is injurious, the surgeon will then be compelled to modify his desire to move the hampered ligaments, and must comply measurably with the demands of the synovial membranes for rest. Fortu- nately, a very free movement, made once a day, will often suffice to free the ligaments from their adhesions, without seriously retarding the recovery from synovitis. As time passes on, and it becomes clear that there is no synovial inflam- mation present, the surgeon should become bolder in his manipulations, and in chronic qtses should persist in them, even though some ligamentous irri- tation should follow each effort. In cases which have become decidedly chronic in spite of gentle exercise, and in which there is neither a rheumatic diathesis nor synovitis present, it will be justifiable to resort to the wrench- ing plan of the “ natural bone-setters,” already described, and by strong, forced movements, to rupture the adherent fibres. For detailed instructions as to the methods of these manipulations, the reader is referred to what has been already said on the subject in a preceding part of this article. Finally, if all other measures fail, it may be best in some cases to practise neurotomy on certain nerve-twigs, so as to paralyze the sensation of the adherent spots, and thus rid the patient of his pain. Contusions of Joints. These injuries differ from sprains more in their causes than in their effects. The nature of the lesions, and their subsequent course and treatment, are so closely allied, that what has been said of one class will apply to the other. Irritable Joints. This is the term employed by Prof. Agnew1 to denote certain cases of sudden inflammation of a joint, occurring weeks or months after the sprain or injury. Principles and Practice of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 133.