393 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. Fig. 533. stabbing pains, which may first of all call the patient’s, and so the surgeon’s attention to the part. Such early, and, if I may so call it, primary manifes- tation of pain, is most common in aneurism of the last part of the subcla- vian and first of the axillary artery; sometimes it is early in popliteal aneu- rism—when, namely, the tumor springs from the superficial wall of the artery and grows backwards. The motor function of nerves may also be greatly affected, or indeed altogether destroyed; this is most strongly exemplified, as we shall see in the sequel, in certain aneurisms of the upper part of the thorax and lower part of the neck, which paralyze partially or totally a vocal cord. We have seen that one of the most remarkable consequences of aneurism is the production by its pressure of rapid absorption, usually without suppuration, of bone and of cartilages. Erosion of the vertebrae is a common result of aneurism of the descending aorta; the outer case, that is, the harder part of the bone resists the rodent action for a cer- tain time, but when this is once broken through, absorption is very quick; aneu- risms have more than once, after eating away the vertebral body and the adja- cent intervertebral substance, burst into the spinal canal. But most limb-bones, being more dense, are with more diffi- culty attacked ; hence, in such a malady as subclavian or popliteal aneurism, the clavicle or femur is less often found excavated. Sternum, ribs, and costal car- tilages are frequently eroded over the space on which a thoracic aneurism is pressing. The pressure and caries pro- duce pains which are often very severe, and of a character which must be distin- guished from those of nerve pressure ; Aneurism of the thoracic aorta, eroding vertebra! they are generally more distinctly local- T\. ribahfront of 8ac rjraoved <*°w ™-tebrai . , J . , , . J bodies. (From a preparation m Charing Cross Hos- ized, and are burning and aching. pitai Museum.) Differential Diagnosis. Both intrinsic and extrinsic symptoms of aneurism have a certain margin of ambiguity which care in examination must eliminate. I would most especially insist on this element of care. Certain fortunately rare cases, even of limb aneurism, present difficulties which may baffle the most searching and skilful investigation; but by far, by very far, the larger number of disastrous mistakes which have been made in dealing with aneurisms, have been due to insufficient caution, as when, for instance, a surgeon, with mis- placed self-confidence, plunges his knife into a painful, fluctuating, and appa- rently to his hasty palpation, a nonpulsatile tumor, even though it may lie close to a large artery. Care and caution in such cases are the points upon which I would lay the greatest stress; no swelling in the course of, or over, a large artery ought to be opened without a previous thorough and searching investigation. The causes of error fall naturally into two categories, for there are, I. Pulsatile tumors that are not aneurisms, and II. Aneurisms that are not pulsatile.