ANEURISM. 518 and slowly the pulsation diminishes. We have not sufficient experience to fix any date for its cessation; indeed, in certain cases, as when the aneurism is placed very low, pulsation may be communicated to the solidified tumor from the innominate on which it rests. I find but a few cases on record of this operation, for carotid aneurism pure and simple, and at least three of these terminated fatally.1 This paucity arises from the fact that low carotid disease, even though commencing simply in that vessel, has a great tendency to spread downward, and to encroach upon the end of the innominate ; but chiefly because it is pro- bable that most of the aneurisms developed in this place begin, as so many aneurisms do, at the point of bifurcation of the latter vessel. Of course an aneurism commencing at that part may spread upward on the carotid, laterally to the subclavian, or in both directions. They remain, however, high innomi- nate aneurisms, although they are frequently called carotid or subclavian aneu- risms, involving the innominate. Innominate aneurism, when diet, rest, and medicine have failed, is hardly amenable to other form of surgical treatment than operative. The surgeon may, indeed, try galvano-puncture, the statistics of success and failure of which have already been given. Pressure, if used at all, can only be distal; nor can it be expected, as a rule, to yield any good result; yet the fact must not be overlooked, that one case of innominate aneurism is reported to have been cured, or greatly benefited, by this method.2 The instrument used was a modification of Bourgery’s compressor for subclavian aneurism, namely, a broad leather belt round the chest, bearing an oblique strap, which, fastening to the left side of the belt, back and front, passed over the right shoulder, and kept a pad firmly pressed on the subclavian. The corset carried behind a steel plate, bearing an upright rod, terminating above in an adjustable lever, with screws, pads, etc., whereby compression could be made on the carotid. The laryngeal symptoms and occasional faintings, previously distressing, dis- appeared in a week; at the end of three months the instrument was laid aside, and the patient returned to her usual household duties. The report was written ten months after treatment had been abandoned, the patient, if not cured, yet living her usual life. The means appear very inadequate to the end in view and to the success obtained ; no doubt there must have been in the patient a great tendency to spontaneous cure. Still, the case isj as far as it goes, important, as showing the possibility, however remote, of aiding recovery by distal pressure. The operative treatment of innominate aneurism has, of late years, greatly interested the surgical profession, many having attempted to realize Ward- rop’s views regarding distal ligature. It is unfortunate that that surgeon, in his well-known case (Mrs. Denmark’s), should have erroneously supposed his patient’s right carotid to be obliterated, so that he tied only the subcla- vian, in its third part. Even with this inadequate operation the patient was greatly benefited, but died two years after, a large aneurism of the innominate still persisting. The method thus inaugurated, was repeated from time to time by other surgeons, with certain variations to be immediately described, but without 1 My figures differ from those of both Dr. Wyeth and Mr. Holmes. The names of the opera- tors are as follows : Wardrop, Bush, Lambert, Wood, Montgomery, Lane, and Colson (de Noyon). [Additional cases, raising the number to ten (with four deaths), are recorded by Demmd, Delens, and De Mello Ferrari; an eleventh case is attributed to Barbosa. ] Like Mr. Holmes, I count but one case to Wardrop ; the vessel in his other case bore on post-mortem examination no sign of having been tied. I add to each list certain other cases. Several cases diagnosed as examples of pure carotid aneurism have been afterwards proved to belong to a different category. 2 A. M Edwards, Lancet, Jan. 9, 1858. The case appears to.liave been overlooked by most, if not all, writers on this subject. At least I do not find it quoted in any work that I have searched-