INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 170 1 Med. and Surg. History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surg. Vol., p. 553. most part, very quickly followed by death from hemorrhage; and that this form of gunshot lesion should be ranked as one of the principal causes of sudden death in warfare. The subjects of this form of gunshot injury almost always perish from hemorrhage before they can be taken up from the field,, and hence they are generally reported on the company-rolls as killed. Partial or Incomplete Division of Arteries by Gunshot Missiles.— This lesion presents itself in two principal forms. In one of them a side of the arterial tube has been carried away ; in the other, the vessel has been, perforated through and through by the missile. The former occurs much oftener than the latter. The former is met with in vessels presenting much variety in respect to size; the latter only in large ones. But the consequences of the arterial wound are quite similar in both instances. The following abstract, and the woodcut which accompanies it (Fig. 423), afford a most excellent example and illustration of the partial division of a large artery by a cylindro-conoidal bullet:— A soldier, aged 19,1 was accidentally wounded, January 11, 1866. The missile, a conoidal musket-ball, entered his right side, just below the cartilages of the false ribs, passed upward, and fractured the eighth rib ; it then emerged from the chest, and, entering the axilla, traversed the arm, and passed out at the top of the shoulder, without Fig. 423. Gunshot wound of the right axillary artery ; pieces of cloth, driven in hy the ball, moderated the bleeding. (Spec. 2674, Sect. I., A. M. M.) injuring the humerus. He was taken to the post-hospital, in a state of syncope, unable to speak and almost pulseless. His extremities were cold, and he was said to have lost a bucketful of blood. Powerful stimulants were immediately administered. The hemorrhage did not return until the 20th, when he lost about fifteen ounces. It was stopped by compression. It again recurred on the 21st, and he lost about twenty ounces. On the 22d, although the prostration from loss of blood was extreme, it was deemed expedient to tie the axillary artery, which was accordingly done with a single ligature; but he survived the operation only a few minutes. During the operation several fragments of cloth were extracted, and also two pieces of the axillary artery. On the extraction of the cloth, hemorrhage, per saltum, commenced, but it was easily controlled by compressing the subclavian above the clavicle, with a door-key. Ne- croscopy—A large semicircular piece, embracing about half the calibre of the vessel, was cleanly cut out by the ball from the side of the axillary artery, about one inch below its origin ; brachial plexus uninjured. The fragments of cloth and flesh which were extracted during the operation had doubtless been driven into the artery, and their dislodgment by accident or by suppuration brought on the secondary bleeding. Such a wound of the axillary artery usually causes death from primary hemorrhage in about five minutes. The accompanying woodcut (Fig. 423) represents the specimen, which is preserved in the Army Medical Museum. The wound was inflicted, whilst the man was lying in his tent, by a com- rade who was handling a loaded musket. The missile was therefore moving wTith great velocity, and it cut cleanly out a large semicircular piece from the side of the axillary artery, embracing about one-half its calibre. Generally, when large arteries are laid open by gunshot missiles, the wounds are inflicted at short range by small-arm projectiles, the missiles moving with great velocity at the moment of impact; especially when such arteries as the