147 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. He therefore came to Lond«n, and entered the hospital, Oct. 26. On examination Mr. Birch found a large pulsating tumor in the femoral region, extending upward to within less than two inches of Poupart’s ligament, and occupying two-thirds of the thigh; it was without doubt a femoral aneurism. On Nov. 3, Mr. Birch tied the femoral artery half-an-inch below the profunda; pulsation in the tumor immediately ceased. Gangrene of the sac, however, supervened. On Nov. 14, the tumor burst, and dis- charged serum and grumous blood; the patient died, in the evening, from septicaemia and secondary hemorrhage. Autopsy. The integuments at the middle of the tumor were mortified. The blood contained in the tumor was very putrid. Water injected by the external iliac artery escaped freely from the wound of operation, at the ligature, where the artery appeared to have been opened by ulceration. The laceration of the inner and middle coats from the blow had occurred two and one-half inches below the origin of the profunda. The arterial tunics did not exhibit atheroma or calcification, or any structural degeneration. “ The opening where the artery passed out of the aneurismal sac was nearly three inches below the part where it entered.”1 The sac of this aneurism appears to have consisted of the external tunic of the artery, widely dilated, and strengthened externally by adherent laminte of connective tissue. Another interesting example seems to have been taken from Clarke A man, aged 48, entering hurriedly a badly lighted chamber, struck his left groin with great force against the corner of a table. Ten days afterward, a small tumor of the size of a pigeon’s egg, and at first taken for an enlarged lymphatic gland, appeared at the point contused. This tumor, in three nights, acquired an enormous size; and it. pulsated so strongly as to raise the bed-clothes. The tumor sloughed, and burst open but without hemorrhage. The patient was in the way of cure, when he succumbed to pneumonia. The artery had been torn across.2 In this case the aneurismal swelling, which was formed at first by the gradual expansion ot dilatation of the external tunic of the femoral artery at the point where its inner and middle coats had been ruptured by striking a°-ainst the corner of a table, suddenly gave way without apparent cause; and? in conse- quence, an enormous swelling, or a so-called difluse aneurism, soon appeared from the extravasation of blood into the connective tissue of the thigh; this' in turn suppurated and was opened by ulceration or sloughing, but without the occurrence of hemorrhage; the man, however, ultimately died of pysemic pneumonia. . External Circumflex.—The following case, in which the external circumilex artery of the right thigh was ruptured, was under Dupuytren’s care at the Hotel-Dieu; it will prove, from its resemblance to the last in several par- ticulars, of much interest in this connection: A man, aged 46, a cook, in running round a table in the kitchen, struck the outer and upper part of his right thigh against an angle of the table. Pain, at the moment of injury, was very acute ; twelve days afterward, a swellingof the thigh suddenly rose up fin the space of ten minutes). Leeches and resolvent cataplasms were applied. Subse- quently the swelling lessened or increased according to his exact observance of quietude or the reverse. A physician, deceived by the absence of pulsation, made an incision therein two inches long; red blood and coagula were discharged. The wound was im mediately closed, and the patient entered the Hotel-Dieu on November 30 The right thigh presented a tumor which occupied its external and anterior region The skin over it was rather leaden-hued ; there was irregular fluctuation in it” and com- pete absence of pulsation. The femoral artery and the dorsalis pedis beat normally Dupuytren announced that the swelling had resulted from the rupture of small vessels' caused by the blow received on the thigh. Diqt and resolvents were prescribed A 1 The London Medical Journal, 1786, p. 391. 2 Nouveau Dictionnaire de Med. et de Chirurg. pratiques, t. x. p. 471 Paris, 1872.