INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 30 phlebitis; in erysipelas the redness is general, and there is absence of con- tagium. The prognosis is usually favorable, with the exception of the occurrence of suppuration in the arthritic condition, which is a very serious complication in the septic form of the disease. Tt'eatment.—This must he both local and general: local so far as to reduce pain in the acute stage by the use of fomentations of poppy heads, and the application of belladonna and glycerine in equal parts, painted all over the suffering tissues.1 If these are highly swollen and cedematous, perhaps bandaging with fine elastic webbing may be of service, and Bradley speaks highly of “ massage;” hut personally I have had no experience of this method.2 Constitutionally iron is invaluable, and perhaps the most readily assimilable form is the chloride, which may be given in the form of the tincture, x-xxx m. for a dose. Septic Lymphangeitis.—The introduction of micrococci and bacteria into the open-mouthed lymphatic capillaries, is undoubtedly the cause of septic lymphangeitis, which, although a condition common to many diseases, has its origin from different infections; as for example, in vaccinia, smallpox, diph- theria, erysipelas, glanders, etc.3 Septic lymphangeitis is the precursor of septicaemia. The most frequent form of septic lymphangeitis is that following dissection wounds. The inoculation of virus from a dead body is not of necessity through a scratch or a cut, but in many instances undoubtedly by endosmosis ; and it is remarkable how different, as to mildness or severity, the results of such an inoculation may be, this depending upon the condition of the poisoned individual, upon the nature of the poison, and upon the quantity of poison absorbed. Thus, an inoculation which in one individual may cause a simple lymphangeitis, in a second may be fatal. The atmosphere in which the poisoning takes place, and the previous state of health of the recipient, must also have a marked influence on his general condition. This has been frequently observed, especially in dissecting or post-mortem rooms, in men infected from the same body ; and in one case in particular, of four men thus infected, one died from pyaemia, two were most seriously ill, whilst the fourth escaped with little or no further trouble than a simple lymphangeitis, the mischief being confined to the lymphatic system. In the other cases, we have an illustration of Burdon Sanderson’s “pyrogenic” condition, in which the gravity of the septicaemia is in direct proportion to the amount of septic material introduced. It is impossible to determine at what period a body becomes infectious ; and as regards the changes which must occur, Dr. Roberts4 remarks, that “ under a certain occurrence of conditions in and about the wound (if there be one), a mortification takes place in the vital endowments of the septic or- ganism, whereby it acquires a parasitic habit which enables it to breed in tissues of degraded vitality, or even in the healthy tissues, and in this way to produce the infective endemic pyrexia which we sometimes witness in the wards of our large hospitals.” (See Erysipelas.) Bradley, in a lecture on septicaemia (May, 1876), gives as examples the following graphically described 1 I can testify from personal experience that this remedy acts like a charm. 2 The early application of Lister’s dressing has, in several cases under my care, speedily cut short what might have been serious consequences, and in the suppurative stage the injection of a three per cent, solution of carbolic acid into the neighboring tissues, has been most efficacious. 3 As erysipelas and glanders have been separately treated of, neither is described in this article. 4 On “ contagium vivum.” British Medical Journal, 1877.