310 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Fig. 490. volse. Its coarse, in its lower part, is indicated by a line drawn from the inner condyle of the humerus to the external side of the pisiform bone. Operation in the Upper Third.—The forearm should be in a supine position, with the hand strongly extended and inclined to the radial side. (1) The cutaneous incision commences 3 centimetres (about 1J inches) below the fold of the elbow, and runs 4 centimetres (about 1J inches) along a line, which, in the supine position, separates the ulnar from the central third of the anterior surface of the forearm (Fig. 490). (2) After dividing the fascia of the forearm, the interval between the bellies of the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum is to be sought for, and enlarged with the tip of the index finger and a blunt hook. (3) At the bottom lies the artery, with its venae comites; on its ulnar side lies the ulnar nerve (Esmarch). Isolate the artery by flexing the forearm slightly, and the' hand strongly. Pass the needle from within outward. Operation in the Lower Third.—The ulnar artery, in the lower third, is cov- ered by the deep fascia, and has upon its inner or ulnar side the flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar nerve, and upon its outer side the flexor sublimis digitorum. Place the forearm supine, and extend the hand so as to make prominent the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. (1) The cutaneous incision is made 3 centimetres (about 1J inches) in length, on the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is inserted into the pisiform bone (Fig. 491). Ligation of the ulnar artery at the junc- tion of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm. (Sedillot.) Fig. 491. Ligation of the ulnar artery above the wrist. (SSdillot.) (2) The superficial layer of the fascia of the forearm is to be cautiously divided; in like manner the deep layer. (3) The artery, accompanied by two veins (vense comites), lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the innermost tendon of the flexor sub- limis digitorum. On its ulnar side lies the ulnar nerve (Esmarch). Operation below the Os Pisiforme.— At the wrist, the artery runs on the radial side of the pisiform bone. The hand being turned backward, make a slightly curved incision about two inches in length and with concavity looking inward, on the radial side of the pisiform bone, through the skin and adipose tissue. The artery is Ligation of the ulnar artery below the pisiform bone.