ANEURISMS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 491 is a very dangerous though, occasionally, an unavoidable procedure; but that deligation of the third part of the subclavian, when the aneurism can he diag- nosed as purely axillary, is comparatively safe, since more than 3 out of 4 thus treated recover. The cases of axillary aneurism1 treated in the six London’ hospitals, the records of which I have utilized, have been 17. Of these, only 4 came to liga- ture. The smallness of the number is due, I believe, to the effect of Mr. Po- land’s paper, which brought the operation into a disrepute which, as far at least as purely axillary aneurism is concerned, is undeserved. Of the 4 patients thus treated, 1 died of erysipelas when all but well, and when the tumor was nearly solid. The results of the different forms of treatment employed are here given:— 5, pressure . . . . . . . 3 failures, 1 death, 1 recovery. 3, amputation ...... 3 deaths. 1, Valsalva’s method and aconite . . .no benefit. 3, expectant measures, or operation declined . 3 deaths. 4, ligature ....... 1 death, 3 recoveries. 1, old operation recovery. Aneurisms of the Head and Neck. Having now traced aneurismal disease of the upper limb to the trunk, we will leave the vessels hitherto dealt with, and will examine the malady as it affects the carotid and its branches. Aneurism of a cervical branch of the carotid may occur, but rather as a surgical curiosity than as a malady requiring notice, save in works especially dedicated to such subjects. In practice, the disease manifests itself either as affecting the main vessel itself (common, external, or, very much more rarely, internal carotid), or as intra-cranial or orbital aneurism. Intracranial Aneurism interests the surgeon but little; it usually mani- fests itself by death from apoplexy after a certain duration of pressure symp- toms, or without such prodromata, and in the post-mortem room by a large effusion of blood in or on the brain, the effusion being traceable to the rupture of some dilated vessel. In a few cases, peculiar signs of localized pressure on the brain, especially if accompanied by complaints of loud whirring or rasp- ing sounds, may lead the physician to suspect the existence of such an aneu- rism, and this diagnosis is very much strengthened when he can himself hear, by a stethoscope applied to the head, or by the otoscope, some such sound, synchronous with the pulse. It must be remembered that the arteries of the brain are especially those most liable to be the seat of syphilitic degenerations (p. 388), and yet the fact that a patient with symptoms of intra-cranial pres- sure is syphilitic, may point to the existence of a tumor, gummous or other- wise, as well as to vascular disease. If an aneurism be diagnosed, a certain localization may be sought by finding at which part the bruit is loudest, and by pressure on each carotid alternately, and then on both. Cessation of the noise, on occlusion of one only, might lead to treatment by pressure; but since the vessels which spring from the four channels carrying blood into the skull intercommunicate very freely, any treatment which closes but one of these branches will be likely to influence the condition of the vessels in but a very transitory manner. Here I Rave not been able to draw the above distinction.