218 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. veins, and thus into the heart. Maisonneuve, in 1853, published several cases of rapid gangrene with the development of putrid gas in the veins; but he believed that death was caused by blood-poisoning from this source. Dr. Parise, however, affirms that the putrid quality of the gas determines no septic action, but that the gas produces death in the same way that air does when it accidentally enters the veins.1 The entrance of air or gas into the veins caused sudden death in one case during the Crimean war : A soldier, aged 20, sustained a gunshot fracture of the left leg, June 18, 1855. On September 21, amputation immediately above the knee was performed; but the stump did badly, the discharge being thin, watery, copious, and slightly fetid. At 1 A. M., on the 25th, he was found, unexpectedly by the orderly, quite dead in bed, and nearly cold, although he had conversed with the man in the next bed as late as 11 o’clock. Autopsy—Lungs healthy, but somewhat anasmic. Right auricle distended with bright red froth (air or gas mixed with blood) ; right ventricle also distended, but the propor- tion of air was less ; heart otherwise healthy. Inferior cava, too, distended with scarlet- colored, frothy blood, “ so that it felt like a portion of small intestine before it was cut into.” Interior of stump sloughy, with no attempt to unite; flaps separated to some extent by fetid gas; the femoral vein lay quite open on the face of the stump, with no attempt at closure, but no sloughing.2 Had the femoral vein been ligatured in this stump, such a mishap could not have occurred. Causes.—The above presented examples of this accident that took place in the dangerous region, show its causes to be the following: (1) The suction- power exerted by the inspiratory movements of the thorax upon the inno- minate and its tributary veins throughout the dangerous region. This suction-power is exhibited by a movement of afflux and reflux of blood in these veins, synchronous with the inspiratory and expiratory movements of the thorax. (2) The gaping of the mouth of the wounded vein which soli- cits the air to enter. This gaping in many situations is due to the adherence of the fascia or aponeurosis to the sides of the vein, whereby it is held open when wounded or divided. The contractions of the platysma and other mus- cles of the neck have a similar effect. (3) The “ canalization ” of veins, or their conversion into rigid, uncollapsing tubes—(a) from inflammatory thick- ening of their tunics, (b) from being surrounded by indurated connective tissue, or (c) from being imbedded in tumors—is an exceedingly favorable condition for the introduction of air into them. (4) The patulous state of veins may he caused by the surgeon himself in lifting up tumors, in making the neck tense by extending the head, in making the axilla tense by extending the arm, also by notching the walls of veins, and, finally, by neglecting to place a proximal as well as a distal ligature around a wounded vein, as happened in the case mentioned by Le Gros Clark. Symptoms.—When the air enters a wounded vein, a whistling, hissing, sucking, gurgling or lapping sound is usually heard; bubbles ot air often appear in the wound; a deathly pallor spreads over the face; the pulse be- comes small and weak, or nearly imperceptible, and the heart’s action labor- ing, rapid, and feeble; the respiration is labored or embarrassed, short, and hurried ; the eyes are fixed, and the pupils widely dilated ; if tbe quantity of air admitted be small, these symptoms may disappear after a time, and recovery ensue; but if the quantity be large, syncope with convulsions and fatal collapse soon follow. The symptoms, however, may be masked by the anaesthetic action of chloroform or ether. Hence the reports of cases of this accident are, as a rule, much less dramatic since the introduction of anaes- thesia. It is not improbable that sonje of the deaths attributed to chloroform have in reality been due to air in veins. A whistling, hissing, or sucking sound which is not due to the entrance 1 Archives Gen. de Medecine, Novembre, 1880. 2 Medical and Surgical History of the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 277.