484 ANEURISM. and vein are thus avoided, while by passing the aneurism needle from that aspect, the veins which surround the vessel are easily separated with the end of the instrument. I would point out that the edge of the biceps should be the point aimed at—even though the artery may be felt beating a little further out-—-because by cutting on the edge of the muscle, the basilic vein is avoided. To make the more sure of the position, the upper arm should not rest against anything,1 but should be held or supported by the forearm ; it should be kept at more than a right angle to the trunk, with the elbow straight. If these precautions are observed, there is no difficulty in the operation. Let it, however, be remembered that high division is not very unusual; when it occurs it is safe to tie both the branches, since recurrence of pulsation and relapse would most likely follow deligation of one only. The operator must not forget two points with regard to the median nerve; the one, that the artery sometimes lies over it, and would be endangered by over-bold use of the knife; the other, that the nerve, even when in its normal place, beats so strongly with a pulse communicated by the vessel, that it may by the in- experienced be tied in mistake. Ligation of Axillary Artery.—By throwing the arm well up, in a line with the trunk, the axillary artery becomes accessible in a considerable part of its length, and may be successfully ligated almost as high as the head of the humerus; indeed, I have tied the vessel here for troubles other than those in question. For aneurism it is not desirable to operate high up on the axillary artery, and the arm, under these circumstances, may be placed at right angles- with the trunk. In the last third of its course, the vessel is easily reached by making an incision in the humeral aspect of the axilla, paralleLto the border of the pectoralis and a wide finger’s breadth from it; this should reach, but not divide, the fascia forming the floor of the space, which may be lifted on the forceps, incised with the blade held flat-wise, and then split up on the director. Close beneath the fascia lies the axillary vein, which should be caught with a blunt hook, and drawn to the back of the wound. Lying amid loose cellular tissue are the nerves, which partly conceal the artery; upon it and on its outer side are the median, crossing it very obliquely, the ulnar, and the internal cutaneous ; the two latter may be taken up and placed in charge of the hook which is already holding the vein, while the median is pressed by a retractor against the coraco-brachialis muscle. Then the needle must be passed, keep- ing it close to the artery so as to avoid the musculo-spiral nerve, which lies just beneath. This operation is adapted for aneurisms above the middle of the arm. Deligation of the brachial, or of the lower part of the axillary artery, for aneurism, is so very generally successful, and is so slight an operation, that but a small number of cases are published. Moreover, since aneurisms of the arm are not very common, the operation is rarely required. I find but ten cases recorded: in all the disease was cured; in one, secondary hemorrhage was easily controlled by a pad; and in one a high division of the artery slightly embarrassed the surgeon, who, after tying one vessel, found that the aneurism still pulsated, whereupon he sought and ligatured the other branch. In hospital records for the last ten years, I find but six cases, all of which were successful; also, by a strange coincidence, six other aneurisms of the brachial, four of which were cured by tourniquet pressure, and two by the use of the Esmarch bandage and cord. The axillary artery has been ligatured higher up, but I would point out that to tie this vessel above the pectoralis minor, for axillary aneurism, appears 1 When the hack of the arm rests on the table, the triceps is pushed forward, and even the biceps may be somewhat displaced; hence a certain difficulty in finding the artery.