TUMORS OF NERVES. 597 The size of these tumors varies, and they may attain large proportions; in a case of Marchand’s, the tumor measured 16 centimetres (6J inches) in diameter. Most frequently the tumor is solitary; in a patient of Wini- warter’s, however, there were several similar tumors upon the branches of the brachial plexus, and the patient, moreover, succumbed to a generalization of sarcoma in the lungs. Sarcoma may present various changes, which, how- ever, are those of sarcoma in general; granulo-adipose degeneration; forma- tion of hemorrhagic foci; mucous infiltration (Muron). The fascicular sarcoma is the most common variety (Marchand); next is the fibrosarcoma (Sottas, Foucault, Lanelongue); the tumor may present one or several cysts (Marchand). Sarcomata have been met with upon the branches of the brachial plexus (Winiwarter), upon the median nerve (Grohe, Volkmann, Lanelongue), upon the ulnar nerve (Verneuil, Demarquay, Foucault), upon the sciatic nerve (Verneuil, Marchand, Bouilly, Mathieu), and upon the posterior tibial nerve (Broca). With the sarcomata should be joined the gliomata of Virchow, or neuroglic sarcomata of Cornil and Ranvier. The German author has observed this variety of tumor in the cranial nerves, and particularly in the auditory nerve, but not in the peripheral nerves, though he considers its existence in them as probable. (3) Myxomata of Nerves.—According to Cornil and Ranvier, these are relatively quite frequent, and are presented under the form of transparent, gelatinous, usually lobulated tumors. They have been confounded with cysts (Wilms). They may present various modifications, constituting the fibro-myxomata (Dolbeau, Trelat), cystic myxomata, lipomatous myxomata, etc. Myxomata have been seen upon the radial nerve (Wilms), upon the ulnar nerve (Lafargue), upon the posterior tibial nerve (Dolbeau), and upon the peroneal nerve (Virchow and Gutteridge). (4) Cysts of Nerves. — We have seen that cystic cavities may be met with in fibromata and sarcomata, but cases of isolated cysts of nerves are rare; one was observed by Beauchene, in 1810, a cyst of the ulnar nerve, and one by Bertrand, a cyst of the median nerve. Lockhart Clarke says that there is in the Museum of St. George’s Hospital, London, a preparation of a cyst of the median nerve. III. Cancer and Epithelioma of Verves.—The existence of primary can- cer of the nerves, regarded as frequent by authors at the beginning of this century, is disputed at the present day, except in the case of the retina and in that of the optic nerve. Foerster, however, according to Cornil and Ran- vier, has observed primary carcinomata of the nerves, which, being at first the size of lentiles, had caused by their development the complete destruc- tion of the nerve. Secondary cancer is met with quite often; it has been well studied by Cornil. The invasion of the nerve is effected in two ways: (1) By direct propagation, by continuity; and (2) By the formation of tumors more or less distant from the primary cancer. The tumors thus formed are small in size, and sometimes multiple; the lesions affect the neurilemma, the perineu- rium, and the nerve-fibres, which may be destroyed. Cornil has especially studied secondary cancer of the nerves following can- cer of the neck of the uterus and cancer of the breast, particularly of the scirrhous form; he has also observed it as a sequel of cancer of the retro-