TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY ACUPRESSURE. 99 operation. By a continued traction, made through the constrictor upon the outer coat of an artery, after the invagination is once commenced, the inner and middle coats may be peeled up and pushed entirely out of the external coat, and thus the latter may be drawn through the sheath of the instrument, freed entirely from the other tunics; wherefore, the operator has it in his power to make the invagination as extensive as he may wish; and, if he always takes care to make the invagination perfect, failure in using the in- strument will be impossible. In amputations, etc., it is always advisable to loosen the tourniquet and allow the blood to flow into the main artery before removing the constrictor, for thus will be secured upon the invaginated tunics a perfect clot, which, afterwards, can hardly be displaced. Professor Hamilton also says that the experiments which have been made with Dr. Speir’s constrictor, under his own observation, induce him to believe that it will, at least, prove superior to acupressure and torsion ; and that it is quite competent to close hermetically the femoral artery and other vessels of the same class, after amputations, etc. But, time enough has not elapsed since the introduction of the instrument, in 1871, to enable us to decide as to its merits by the test of experience. A further judgment must therefore be reserved for more extended observation. For convenience, the constrictor may be made with three sizes of tongues, to be used with one tube, so as to fit more nearly the cylinders of different arteries. Furthermore, Professor Hamilton advises those who use Dr. Speir’s constrictor to order it from his instrument maker, or to copy it with great care from the original, and not to attempt to construct it from any descrip- tion, since, upon the fashioning of the hooks, the value of the instrument in great measure depends. VI. Acupressure. In December, 1859, this method of haemostasis was first presented to the world by the late Sir James Y. Simpson, in a communication to the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. The instruments required for operating on this plan are very few and simple. They are (1) bayonet-pointed pins, varying in length from three to five inches, with glass or wax heads to facilitate their introduction, (2) needles threaded with fine iron wire, and (8) loops of slender iron wire, well annealed, and five or six inches in length. On the cut surfaces of flaps the ordinary sewing-needle answers perfectly well. There are several methods of employing the pins in order to exert on the wounded artery the compression which is desired; but, practically, they may be reduced to three. Fig. 403. 1. Direct Compression (Fig. 403) is made by a pin thrust through the flap, passed over the artery, thrust into the flap again, and brought out of it on the side opposite to the point of entrance, in such a manner as to firmly compress the end of the severed artery against the muscle on which it lies; in other words, the wounded artery is secured on the face of the stump by inserting a pin, as one would secure the stem of a rose on the lapel of his coat. 2. Compression with Wire is effected by pass- ing the point of the pin or needle under the ves- sel, then casting over it and in front of the artery Acupressure by the first method.