502 ANEURISM. In considering the deaths from hemorrhage, we must distinguish clearly between those bleedings which spring from the site of deligation and those which arise from the sac. It is a pity that this distinction is not made in Wyeth’s table. But I have been able to procure fuller information in many cases. Thus, in all the 107 deligations for carotid aneurism, bleeding occurred but twice from the site of ligature alone, and once from that place and from the sac simultaneously. This distinction is important, because, in a certain proportion of cases which must stand on the fatal side of the list, the operation affected the result neither one way nor the other: the sac continued to grow, and ultimately burst, just as though no operation had been per- formed. It appears, then, that we may accept a little over 25 per cent, as having been the mortality of this operation up to the present time, but it is probable that the immediate future will diminish this proportion very con- siderably. The old operation for carotid aneurism was advocated by Mr. Syme as even the best primary procedure; but the vessel is badly placed anatomically, since it is difficult or impossible to command the circulation; and any surgeon who reads the account which Mr. Syme gives of his operation (a traumatic case), will hardly be induced to follow that eminent surgeon’s example. If, how- ever, the Hunterian operation have failed, and the aneurism continue to in- crease, the old method may be practised with comparative 'facility, since the ligature obstructs the artery sufficiently to make it safe. This has been done twice in America, and quite lately in London, by Mr. Morris.1 Ho difficulty was experienced in the operation. Aneurism op the Vertebral Artery.—This is always traumatic, follow- ing punctured wounds (stabs) at the side or back of the neck, or more rarely bullet-wounds. Ho instance of spontaneous aneurism has been, as far as I know, recorded. Although rare, 22 wounds and aneurisms of the vertebral artery have been collected.2 The usual place of injury is between the first and second vertebrae, where the vessel makes its turn to pass outwards to the foramen in the wider transverse processes of the former bone; but in two cases it was between the second and third vertebrae ; in one between the fourth and fifth; and in one (Kocher’s) between the fifth and sixth. Of great surgical interest is the diagnosis of these cases, the difficulties of which will be at once apparent when it is stated that, in more than half of the recorded cases, viz., in 12, the disease was mistaken for aneurism of some branch of the carotid ; and that in 11 cases that vessel was tied, while in one the inferior thyroid was supposed to he the wounded vessel (Maison- neuve), and tied first; but afterwards, since bleeding did not cease, the ver- tebral also was ligatured. The situation of the wound helps but little in the diagnosis; in most cases this has been near the skull, and about an inch behind the mastoid process; hence the surgeon is very likely to attribute the bleeding or the aneurism to the occipital artery, or, if the injury he lower, to the ascending cervical. In certain other cases, the penetrating wound has passed through quite different parts, namely, “ mouth” (twice), “cheek,” at “the angle of the jaw,” “under the ear,” etc., where certainly a branch of the carotid would appear to be more exposed to injury than the vertebral. Since, then, situation of the wound gives no certain indication, the only method is to observe whether 1 Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. lxiv. p. 1. 2 Sixteen have been gathered by Barbieri, of Milan; four are mentioned by Pilz ; and the other two are the cases of Liicke (Langenbeck’s Arcbiv, Bd. viii. S. 78) and of Kocher (Ibid., Bd. xii. S. 867).