100 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. a loop of iron wire which is to he tightly fastened to the shaft of the pin or needle; the pin is then to be passed through the opposite flap. A good plan for using the wire is to place a loop of it under the point of the pin or needle already inserted, carry both ends of the loop across in front of the artery, then pass one of them beneath the head of the pin or needle, and, finally, fasten the two ends together by twisting them as tightly as may be desired. 3. Compression by Torsion (Fig. 404) is made by transfixing with a pin the face of the wound or stump, an inch or more on the side of the artery at A, then carrying the head of the pin half-way around the face of the stump or wound to B, and there thrusting the point of the pin into the tis- sues beyond, so as to hold it securely. The pins or needles should not be left in more than forty-eight hours for the larger, and twenty-four hours for the smaller arteries; and even a much less period has been found sufficient to obtain permanent occlusion. To these methods should be added that of the late Dr. Buck, of New York, which consists of torsion com- bined with transfixion. In applying it, the artery is first seized with a torsion forceps (Fig. 391) and twisted around on its axis two or three times, when the pin is to be thrust transversely through the cylinder of the artery, and then fixed in the surrounding tissues. Mr. Bryant remarked, at a recent meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirur- gical Society,1 that “acupressure had been almost abandoned, because, in the case of severed arteries, it was frequently followed by secondary hemorrhage, the vessel not being occluded long enough to allow of permanent clotting.” Professor Esmarch makes no mention whatever of acupressure in his Surgeon’s Handbook; and I think that he is quite right, because, though historically of importance, it is not of much practical value as a haemostatic measure. Fig. 404. Acupressure by torsion. Yn. Aerteriversion. Dr. G-. C. E. Weber, of the Medical Department of the University of Wooster, at Cleveland, Ohio, proposes to constrict the mouths of arteries divided in amputations, by turning over their ends with a little instrument, called an aerteriverter by Dr. Weber, but quite similar to the fine double hooks, operated by a sheath, the invention of M. Liier, of Paris, and called by him jixateur a gaine. With this instrument the ends of divided arteries may be retro verted, as one turns over the cuffs of his coat in rolling up the sleeves. This method is designed to reinforce the cut extremity of an artery by the duplicature of its walls, thus surrounding its open mouth with such a quantity of arterial muscular and elastic fibres as to effectually close it against the im- pulse of the heart’s action. The operation is easily performed by introducing the hook-end of the instrument into the artery up to the point where the reflexure of its walls is to be made, and there planting the hooks in the inner and middle coats; then by grasping the end of the artery with forceps, held in the other hand, and slipping the section of the vessel embraced between the two instruments 1 Lancet, March 26, 1881.