DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. 309' raise the deep fascia on a director, and divide it. This brings into view the artery with its venae comites, and the radial nerve lying on its outer or radial side (Fig. 488). The needle may he passed in either direction. Ligation of the radial artery in its lower third. (Sedillot) Operation on the Dorsum of the Wrist.—Below the styloid process of the radius, the artery runs in the groove between the upper extremities of the first metacarpal bones, and a fibrous band separates it from the tendons of the thumb (Fig. 489). It may be ligatured just before it forms the deep Fig. 489. Ligation of the radial artery on the dorsum of the wrist. (Sedillot.) palmar arch; or a little below and behind the extremity of the styloid process of the radius, as it passes under the extensor muscles of the thumb, between the extensor primi internodii and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. To tie the artery at the commencement of the deep palmar arch, make an in- cision, one inch in length, along the ulnar border of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, at the angle formed by the first two metacarpal bones, taking care not to wound the superficial veins, and the artery is readily exposed. To tie the artery below and behind the styloid process of the radius, place the hand between pronation and supination, the thumb strongly abducted so as to render its extensors prominent. Then make a light incision, one inch in length, between the tendons of the two extensors, commencing at the lower extremity of the radius, and continued in a line with the axis of the first metacarpal bone. Avoid the superficial vein of the thumb. Draw the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis outward, and the extensor secundi internodii pollicis inward, thus bringing into view the artery and its accompanying veins (Fig. 489). Ligation of the Ulnar Artery.—The ulnar artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the brachial. It crosses the forearm obliquely to the commencement of its middle third; it then descends on the ulnar side of the limb to the wrist, crosses over the annular ligament, and forms the super- ficial palmar arch, which terminates by inosculating with the superficialis