(27) INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. BY EDWARD BELLAMY, F.R.C.S., FELLOW OF KING’S COLLEGE, LONDON ; SURGEON TO THE CHARING CROSS HOSPITAL ; MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF EXAMINERS, ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND. Wounds of Lymphatics and Lymphatic Glands. The enormous number of lymphatics which are distributed to every part of the body, in far greater number than the bloodvessels, renders it evident that in every wound or contusion in which bloodvessels are involved, lymphatics are involved also. The result is an outpouring of blood and lymph, and the outpoured lymph becomes ultimately developed into the bond of union whereby reparation of the injured tissue chiefly comes about. We notice that at first the flow from the wound is of both blood and lymph, and after a while a flow of clear lymph, which becomes organized. It does sometimes happen, even when there is no pathological change in the lymphatics, that a persistent flow of lymph may follow an injury, constituting what is termed lymphor- rhoea or lymphorrhagia; and this traumatic form generally follows wounds of the thoracic duct, larger lymphatic vessels, or glands. In all wounds which involve large muscular surfaces, a considerable lymph flow occurs, owing to the rich network of vessels, by which, as demonstrated by Ludwig, the mus- cles are invested. Wounds of the Thoracic Duct.—Cases of wounds of the thoracic duct have been placed on record, and it is possible that they may be of more fre- quent occurrence than is supposed, even if we set aside the fact of direct wound such as inflicted by a gunshot or puncture; rupture of the duct may result from a fall or twist, or from a growth, which may obliterate its lumen. From the cases placed on record, it would not seem that the lymph extravasation is necessarily at once, or, indeed, certainly fatal; and experiments and post-mortem records show us that, after obliteration of the duct, the circulation of the lymph has been restored by the collateral lymphatics and right lymphatic trunk. Wounds of Large Lymphatic Trunks.—The chief interest attached to these is the resulting lymphorrhoea, and the oft-quoted case recorded by Hew- son sufficiently illustrates the condition. This was the case of “a butcher, who, by letting his knife fall upon his shin, cut some of the large lymphatic vessels which pass over the tibia; from this wound there flowed a consider- able quantity of clear lymph, which, being confined by the dressings, jellied, and then appeared at first sight like a whitish fungus, but being loose could