INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 156 about the shoulder and the tumor came on ; next day, high fever also appeared ; on the third day they left. The swelling likewise abated, and, by the fifteenth day, had entirely disappeared. There still remained, however, a very extensive ecchymosis ; but its resolution was complete on the twenty-seventh day.1 Considerable light is thrown upon the real nature of the lesion which existed in this case by what happened in a precisely similar case related by Pelletan,2 the tradition of which had been preserved at the Hotel-Dieu for almost twenty years. Whilst violent efforts to reduce a dislocation of the humerus, of four months’ standing, were being made, a painful tearing occurred, and a large-sized tumor rose up. This tumor was declared to be emphysematous. It was opened by an incision; and the patient died of hemorrhage. Some of the eye-witnesses informed Pelletan that there was a rupture of the axillary artery with extravasation of blood. Had the incision not been made, the patient would probably have recovered. Malgaigne relates another case which ended in recovery, without opera- tion :— A carman, aged 44, dislocated his humerus forward under the clavicle, and after suffering numerous unsuccessful attempts to reduce it, came to Malgaigne, who, on the sixty-eighth day, also attempted its reduction, and success seemed assured when he saw the subclavian hollow suddenly elevated by a tumefaction which almost visibly overran the axilla and part of the shoulder. Percussion gave a dull sound. Auscultation revealed nothing. The radial pulse continued to beat. The attempt at reduction, how- ever, was at once abandoned, in order to avert the danger. The arm was immovably fixed against the side, and the tumor was covered with ice. Some hours later, the growth of the swelling seemed to be arrested. Soon afterwards, an enormous ecchy- mosis appeared. On the ninth day absorption had begun ; and, on the twenty-second day, the tumor and the ecchymosis had vanished.3 Malgaigne thought that, inasmuch as the radial pulse was not affected, the axillary artery was not opened; but this circumstance only shows that the canal of the axillary artery was not obstructed. Recovery in such cases takes place without the obliteration of the canal. In one case, analogous to the above, Scarpa observed that the wounded edges of the artery had adhered, and that a mere line of cicatrization was discoverable when the artery was slit open. The coagulum, shut out in this manner from the canal of the ves- sel, formed a tumor which was attached to the outside of the artery.4 Hodg- son, also, remarks that “ an aneurism arising from a punctured artery some- times becomes filled with lamellated coagulum, which seals up the orifice through which the sac communicated with the artery, and the cure of the disease is accomplished without the canal of the artery being obliterated ; the coagulum is absorbed, the sac contracts, and the orifice in the artery is per- manently closed ;”5 and, in support of this view, he cites observations recorded by Saviard, Petit, Foubert, Scarpa, and Jones. It is obvious that when a rupture of the axillary artery is cured by Nature in either of these two ways the radial pulse may remain unaffected throughout. Symptoms and Diagnosis of Rupture of Axillary Artery.—The phenomena which indicate that the axillary artery is ruptured, are those that arise from a rapid and copious effusion of blood into the loose connective tissue of the armpit, namely, a swelling appearing suddenly in some part of the axillary region, increasing quickly to a great size, so as to fully occupy that locality, and attended soon by discoloration of the integuments with infiltrated blood; the general signs of hemorrhage are often present, for instance, pallor of coun- 1 (Euvres Chirurgicales, t. i. pp. 379, 380. 2 Clinique Chirurgieale, t. ii. p. 95. 3 Op. cit., t. ii. p. 150. 4 Hodgson, Diseases of Arteries, pp. 489, 490. 6 Ibid., pp. 488, 489.