INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 172 Fig. 425. by the losses of blood which had occurred before the operation. An example of this form of injury that oc- curred in the lower extremity, will be useful: Colonel Roderick Matheson, commanding the 32d New York Volunteers, was wounded in the battle of Crampton Gap, Maryland, September 14, 1862, the ball passing through his right leg, and fracturing the fibula in its course. Cold water dressings were applied. Six days after the casu- alty, a slight discharge of dark-colored blood occurred, and two days afterwards was repeated; the whole amount of both hemorrhages did not exceed four fluidounces. ISTo further bleeding appeared until the seventeenth day, when about a pint escaped, not enough, however, to cause syncope. 1ST ext day, under chloroform, the coagu- lum was removed, when considerable hemorrhage followed, coming, as was soon ascertained, from the posterior tibial artery. It was then decided to enlarge the wound and tie the artery in it, which was accordingly done. On exposing the artery, one side of it was found to have been car- ried away, to the extent of nearly one inch; a ligature was placed around it, both above and below the aperture, a few pieces of bone were re- moved from the fractured fibula, and the patient was placed in bed. Symptoms of great prostra- tion being present, every possible effort was made to rally him, but without avail. He lived but a fewT hours after the operation.1 For two or three months before the casualty the patient had suffered from army-diarrhoea, in consequence of which he was much enfeebled; too much, in fact, to survive the loss of blood and the shock of the operation. The partial division of large arteries by gunshot missiles, as these cases show, is very dangerous to life. The aperture in the tunics of the injured vessel gapes widely open from contraction of the arterial fibres, but lessening of the vessel’s calibre at the place of injury from contraction of the arterial fibres does not occur; retraction of the injured portion into the arterial sheath cannot take place ; an internal eoagulum, of a clot within the mouth of the wounded vessel, cannot be formed; and the external eoagulum adheres so loosely to the mouth of the wounded vessel that sooner or later it becomes displaced, and then either a traumatic aneurism will form, or a hemorrhage will burst forth externally, and the patient will lose his life unless surgical aid is seasonably obtained. Shot-wound of the external carotid artery, and ligation of common carotid. (Spec. 3969, Sect. I., A. M. M.) The perforation of arteries from side to side, which constitutes the only remaining form of the partial division of arteries that may be caused by gunshot projectiles, is not often met with in the extremities; nevertheless, Professor Alfred C. Post has reported a good example :— Henry Schatt, aged 30, wounded March 25,1865, was admitted into Mount Pleasant Hospital April 2, with a gunshot wound of the left thigh. A conoidal ball had passed through the popliteal space from without inward, injuring the popliteal artery. On 1 American Medical Times, Feb. 28, 1863, p. 101.