538 ANEURISM. be tied above and below the place of opening. The vein—especially if an important one, as the femoral at the groin—ought to be spared, though some- times it is so adherent to the artery as to be barely separable j1 yet to tie it would be very likely to induce gangrene. I would strongly advise very careful and patient attempts at separation to be made. It is below rather than above the opening that the difficulty occurs, and at the same time the artery is here so diminished in size that it is not easily found. Under these cir- cumstances, and unless the diseased spot be immediately above a large branch, it may be well to relinquish the attempt to tie the artery below the mouth of intercommunication, and to elevate the limb. Blood from the vein could not, under such circumstances, flow along the artery, and in the absence of any arterial branch very near to the spot, return blood from the artery could hardly get into the vein. The Hunterian mode of deligation, whenever it has been tried under these circumstances, has, as far as I can find, invariably failed. Appendix. Although this article was finished some time ago, it appears to me de- sirable to render it complete by inserting a case of deligation of the innomi- nate artery, recently performed by Mr. William Thomson, of Dublin. I do this with the more pleasure since the case, although terminating fatally, proves that my views concerning the action and importance of a flat ligature are correct. It also illustrates the value of the needle depicted at p. 476, which was devised by me for facilitating the passage of a ligature under the subclavian and innominate. As will be seen on perusal of the case, the operation could hardly have been completed without its aid. In March of the present year (1882) Mr. Thomson wrote to me, describing a case of right subclavian aneurism which was under his care, and saying that he proposed tying either the subclavian in its first part, or the innominate. He asked me for a piece of my ox-aorta ligature. I replied immediately by sending what he had requested, and my needle. As the patient dallied a good deal, sometimes accepting, sometimes declining Mr. Thomson’s proposal, that gentleman returned the instrument, believing that the patient would not sub- mit to an operation. However, at the beginning of June, I again heard from Mr. Thomson, and in pursuance of his request once more sent him the needle. He had preserved the ox-aorta ligature forwarded to him in March. The patient having finally determined to undergo the necessary treatment, I am able, by the great courtesy of Mr. Thomson, to give the details of the case in that eminent surgeon’s own words:— John Murphy, aged 49, a locksmith, was admitted to the Richmond Surgical Hos- pital, Dublin, on the 7th of February, 1882, suffering from aneurism of the right subclavian artery. He was a man of medium development, healthy looking, and of dark complexion. His hair was grizzled. He had never had syphilis, had lived a fairly temperate life, and had been for eighteen months in America, where, in the war with the Confederate States, he had received a bayonet wound over the right scapula. For two years and a half he had been suffering from pains in the right arm, which he thought were due to rheumatism; but ten months before his admission he first noticed a small tumor, “about as large as a marble,” in the posterior inferior triangle of the 1 When treating of deligation of the femoral artery, I pointed out that occasionally the femoral vein, or a vein close to it, had in this operation been wounded, and yet that when the artery had been tied, bleeding had ceased. If in endeavoring to isolate the artery venous bleeding from the enlarged vein should occur, I would recommend that this should not he immediately ligatured. When the artery has been secured, the effect of thus checking the flow of blood to the part, and of raising the limb above the level of the pelvis, should be tried.