POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 463 in which the horizontal works, give means of moving the pad into any place; the ball and socket joint at the end of the horizontal arm enables the tourni- quet screw to take any direction. By this means the femoral artery can be compressed fairly against the body of the pubis in such a direction as shall give the most effect to the least mechanical effort, and, therefore, with the least pressure on the skin. The other part of the instrument is a stirrup-shaped tourniquet, with hinge and clamp at the sides. The arrangement of the tourniquet screw is the same as in the upper or groin portion. The two are intended to be used alternately. Esmarch has devised a mechanism in which the compressor is a staff' or rod of wood, shod with lead, and suspended by an upright and cross piece above the patient’s bed, in such wise that a greater or less weight may fall on the vessel, or that the patient grasping the staff" may aid its pressure by his own manual force. Esmarch describes this as very efficacious, and of facile use, and gives it the name of “ Stangendriick.”1 In a previous part of this article, the principles which are to guide the surgeon in the use of pressure have already been discussed. I need only re- peat here that either the rapid method, with or without anaesthesia, or the gradual method may be chosen; in the former, the artery must be so con- trolled that no beat of the tumor takes place, while the latter may be more gently regulated. Some surgeons prefer entirely to annul pulsation, and this probably is more certain of producing consolidation, though it is more danger- ous, as being likely to lead to ulceration or sloughing of the skin, besides certain other untoward events, such as gangrene, sloughing, or rupture of the sac; while a slight wave of blood through the tumor is by others thought to be advantageous. As a rule, the cases which are subjected to the gradual method occupy the longer time in cure, while those treated by complete occlusion are more liable to relapse. The statistics of compression in its various forms might be made very com- plicated, if we took separately eases in which any one form was used alone, and likewise the almost endless combinations that were produced by com- mingling methods—some commencing in one way, some in another; but I think that no good purpose would be answered by such a course. I have found that in taking any one mode, and gathering from publications its re- sults, we get an altogether erroneous proportion of successes, because failure induces the surgeon to try something else. Hence, all the more obstinate aneurisms are treated in a number of ways; those that tend to cure themselves, or that require but little artificial aid, in one way only.2 I have collected from American, British, and Continental journals, all the cases I have found, from 1870 to 1879 inclusive. I find that 148 cases of pop- liteal aneurism have been treated by the various forms of pressure. Of these, 68 were successful, while 80 ended in failure.3 Of the unsuccessful cases, 57 came to ligature; 9 patients went away declining further treatment, or were dismissed with a still pulsating tumor; 4 suffered amputation; 6 died. The deaths were thus distributed: 1, cause not given; 2, rupture of sac (one of them into the knee-joint); 1, gangrene; 2, thrombosis. The causes of amputa- tion were: 2, rupture of sac; 2, gangrene. Of these cases, 2 died from second- ary hemorrhage; 1 from spread of gangrene; 1 survived. 1 Verhandlungen der Deutsclien Gesellschaft der Chirurgie, 4. Congress. 2 Dr. George Fischer, of Hanover, has given in the Prague Vierteljahrschrift, 1869, S. 16". tables of cases treated by digital compression, gathered from a vast number of journals. The number of popliteal cases is 89 ; of which 57 were cures and 32 failures. 3 If from published reports we cull those that are headed as treated by indirect pressure, we get very different proportions. It is among those that are stated to have been subjected to deli- gation, that the greater number of failures of pressure treatment have occurred.