695 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. violent blow upon the back of the thigh, near its upper end. So slight a cause as a misstep has been known to cause this injury, but is much more likely to cause fracture of the neck of the femur, which often results from a slight fall. Pathology.—The pathology of the pubic variety of dislocation has already been referred to in the general description of forward luxations. The position of the head of the femur varies from a point directly upward, under the Y ligament, to one directly forward upon the body of the pubic bone. Between these two points it may occupy a variety of situations. Sometimes it passes •diagonally inward and upward under Poupart’s ligament, disturbing more or less the vessels and nerves, but commonly pushing them aside rather than wounding them, and finding a location over and within the pelvic rim under the external oblique and transversalis muscles. Symptoms.—The head of the femur can often be seen to form a large tumor upon the pubis, or wherever it may lie. Most frequently it rides upon the rim of the bone so as to be markedly prominent. The foot lies turned out- ward, and resists all attempts to give an inward ro- tation. As in the backward forms of hip-disloca- FiS- 572> tion, there is a marked but not great amount of flexion, which will not yield to pressure, the only effect of pushing the knee downward being to cause an upward arching of the lumbar spine and a tilting of the pelvis forward. Instead of being laid across the opposite limb, the line of the thigh diverges on account of the abduction of the affected member, this being a slightly-marked butconstantsymptom. Upon the whole, the characteristic features of dislocation rigidly maintain themselves against any efforts at movement, and are resumed when the limb is left free. Upon measurement, the limb is, in most cases, found to be shortened one or two inches, the excep- tions being in those cases in which the displacement is directly forward upon the pubis. Measurement also shows that the trochanter major is from half an inch to two and a half inches nearer to the symphysis pubis upon the affected than upon the other side. A differential diagnosis between fracture of the femoral neck and pubic dislocation can always be made, when it is remembered that the outward turn- ing of the fractured thigh is not accompanied by immobility, under an anaesthetic, nor by a flexed and abducted position which will not yield to the hand. The length of the limb can be restored by making traction, in a fracture of the neck, but not in a dis- location. The prominent tumor formed by the head in its new location will settle absolutely the differen- Pubic dislocation, tial diagnosis. Treatment of Pubic Dislocations. — Bigelow recommends the following plans:— (1) In the forward luxations, as in those backward, the new method in- volves the necessity of flexion, for the purpose of relaxing the y ligament; but it is to be remembered that abduction, and not adduction, is the most favorable position for replacement. Proceed by flexing and abducting the thigh—carrying the knee up, and then out, in other words—and make trac- tion in the direction of the axis of the thigh bone, having an assistant, at