PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. 563 gone by the peripheral end, as they have been made known to us by the re- searches of the above-named physiologists. During the first twenty-four hours which follow the section of a nerve—the sciatic of a rabbit, for example—the' nucleus of each nerve-segment is seen to increase considerably in size; the protoplasm swells and enlarges; in places it is seen to encroach upon the myelin, and to produce in it an outline of segmentation. The segmentation of the myelin is completed on the follow- ing day, and the sheath of Schwann becomes filled with large masses, which are colored black by osmic acid. These masses continue to divide during*the third day, and at the same time the axis-cylinder, until now intact, is cut in two at the position of the nucleus, while above and below it takes a monili- form appearance. From the fourth to the sixth day destruction is completed, the sheath of Schwann is filled with fine, fatty granules, and the axis-cylinder disappears, no trace of it remaining. The nucleus of the nerve-segment un- dergoes division, and heaps of nuclei are seen to be formed. At this period the fat granules, which fill the sheath of nerve-fibre, seem to diffuse themselves outside of it. The cells of the endoneurium are filled with them, and also the endothelia of the neighboring bloodvessels. Ranvier thinks that this fatty overloading of the cellular elements is connected with the absorption and disappearance of the myelin of the nerve-fibre. From the seventh to the twentieth day, in fact, the axis-cylinder and myelin having disappeared, and the nuclei of new formation diminishing more and more, the sheath of Schwann becomes empty and folds upon itself, its walls joining together. About the thirtieth day after the section, there are only found empty sheaths of Schwann, strewed with flat nuclei surrounded by a desic- cated protoplasm (Ranvier). Such are the modifications undergone by the peripheral end. Analogous phenomena are produced in the central end, but they do not extend very high; the disintegration of the myelin, according to Ranvier, does not generally pass beyond the first annular constriction above the section. More- over—a distinction of importance—the axis-cylinder does not undergo any alteration; it remains intact, distinctly fibrillar, a little enlarged up to the level of the section. It is in this central end that the process of repair begins. How is it produced ? We have said that in the peripheral segment the axis-cylinder disappears as well as the myelin. It cannot, then, be longer admitted, as formerly be- lieved by Yulpian and Philippeaux, that the regeneration is due to the simple reproduction of the myelin sheath—an opinion which has, indeed, been abandoned by both these authors themselves. Others thought that the axis- cylinder was simply re-formed in each of the old empty sheaths of Schwann, and was surrounded with an envelope of myelin. The idea advanced by Waller of the budding of the nerve-fibres of the central end is the opinion which Ranvier has been led by his researches to recognize as true. The fol- lowing is, according to the learned Professor of the College of France, the process of repair:— Each end of the cut nerve swells so as to form a kind of bud—the central, bud and the peripheral bud; these two swellings are united by a tissue ana- logous to that of granulations—the cicatricial segment. In the central segment, as early as the eighteenth day after the trauma- tism, the budding of the nerve-fibres begins to take place. It is at the level of the first annular constriction seated above the section that the fibres of new formation appear. Ranvier has carefully described the different forms taken by the new nerve-fibres. Sometimes there is seen a myelinic fibre formed of short, interannular segments, arising from the constriction, and penetrating into the sheath of Schwann, in order to reach the cicatrix.