WOUNDS OF NERVES. 555 tions, or by lesions of the surrounding organs (vessels, muscles, etc.)—lesions which are almost always met with in connection with wounds of nerves which have not been produced experimentally—or, finally, by the presence of foreign bodies. According to their etiology, wounds of nerves are divided into punctured, incised, contused, and gunshot wounds; varieties which present numerous analogies with each other, and which differ, especially in their effects, according as the division of the nerve has been complete or in- complete ; therefore we will not consider them separately, but will set forth first the phenomena which belong to wounds of nerves in general, and point out afterwards those which are peculiar to each variety. Etiology.—We have seen that the different causes of nerve-wounds furnish a natural basis for their classification; the simple enumeration of these causes will indicate their mechanism, and it will be sufficient to mention cutting instruments, the lancet (in bleeding), pieces of window-glass, fragments of bottles, etc., among the most frequent causes of incised wounds; and railroad accidents, which often produce contused wounds. As regards foreign bodies, these may he fragments of the vulnerating agent—the point of a foil, a whip- lash, a shot, etc.; or they may come from the organism itself, as, for example,, a splinter of bone. Ligatures around a nerve, when they do not cause its division, or when they remain in connection with the central part, may act as foreign bodies; it is, therefore, necessary to avoid, at all hazards, the inclusion of a nerve in the ligature of an artery. Pathological Physiology and Anatomy.—Traumatisms of nerves almost ex- clusively affect those of animal life, especially the spinal nerves, and par- ticularly the nerves of the extremities—more often those of the upper than those of the lower extremities, the nerves of the forearm, and among these the median and ulnar, being those which seem to be most frequently involved. The lesions of the integument and neighboring parts vary with the cause. It is evident that the derangement of the parts will be less in punctured than in contused wounds, in which there is, as a rule, more or less destruction of the soft tissues, even excluding those cases of general crushing of a limb, in which the injury to the nerve forms only an insignificant part of the lesion. Finally, there are usually observed as complications of nerve-sections, lesions of the muscles, tendons, and vessels—notably at the wrist, where the division of the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris often complicates wounds of the median and ulnar nerves. The nerve-trunks themselves present alterations of different kinds. There may be a simple separation of the nerve-fibres, in what may be considered a typical puncture—though in reality some of the fibres are always divided; or a more or less complete section of the nerve-trunk, and varying separation of its two ends, this being greater when the nerve is less adherent to the surrounding tissues, and being always more marked, unless under special circumstances, in the upper than in the lower segment. Finally, the surfaces of the section may be smooth, as in experimental neurotomies, hut are more often irregular and disorganized. Immediately after the injury there is seen at the level of the nerve-wound, if the Section is incomplete, an effusion of blood, which is located either between the nerve-fasciculi, or between them and the neurilemma; if the division is complete and the separation marked, there occurs an effusion of blood, varying in amount, between the extremities of the nerve—an effusion which reunites and surrounds them. If the wound is a simple one, and the patient in good condition, the two extremities of the nerve are soon united by a cicatricial tissue, through which, if the separation is not too great, its continuity is ultimately re-established. It may be said at once that