200 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. mouth.” The autopsy showed an opening in the internal jugular vein, made by a splinter of bone, which still remained in it.1 As soon as the mechanical obstacle became loosened by suppuration, hemorrhage ensued. Large veins are sometimes punctured by the minute bird-shot or squirrel- shot of sportsmen, as happened in a case already related on page 115, that occurred in the practice of Professor Gross, where the right internal jugular vein was penetrated by a squirrel-shot, and the venous wound healed in a noteworthy manner, without the aid of a blood-clot or the occurrence of inflammation-—healed in fact by the first intention—and the shot itself became encysted, by the same process, in the wall of the vein at a point opposite to the place of entrance. The patient died on the fourteenth day after the accident, from protracted epileptic con vulsions, and the autopsy revealed what has just been described.2 The subclavian artery also was punctured. The case is of some importance, because it shows the way in which venous wounds may heal, and that the venous tunics may sustain a severe injury without resenting it. A large vein is sometimes accidentally punctured or transfixed by an artery-needle in performing the Hunterian operation for aneurism. Two fatal examples of this sort, in which the internal jugular was(pierced through and through, are presented by Dr. S. W. Gross in a most excellent article on “Wounds of the Internal Jugular Vein.”3 The transfixion of the vein escaped notice in both instances, and the ligature passing through the vein acted as a seton after the operation. Hence, there ensued ulcerative inflam- mation in the vein-wall, and the train of phenomena usually ascribed to diffuse or suppurative phlebitis, with death from pyaemia. Indeed, it would be hard to plan an experiment more likely to produce such results than the establishment of a seton in this manner in a large venous trunk extending across its channel. There are also on record some fatal cases in which the femoral vein was pierced in like manner, while operating on Hunter’s plan for popliteal aneurism. It is, therefore, of great importance that this mishap should be avoided, and, in case it does occur, that it should immediately he detected. In such cases the ligature must he withdrawn, and reapplied at another point. The bleeding will generally cease on tightening the ligature, this cutting off' the blood-supply that otherwise would go to the distal part of the limb, and flow back toward the heart through the punctured vein. Contused "Wounds of Veins.—The tunics of veins, like the tunics of arte- ries, are sometimes bruised by the impact of musket-balls and other missiles in gunshot wounds. When large arteries are contused in this manner, the accompanying veins, likewise, are often found to be contused. For example, in one of Mr. Guthrie’s cases, already mentioned in the section on Contused Wounds of Arteries, the walls of the femoral vein were bruised by a musket- ball as well as the walls of the artery, and the canal of the vein was “ filled by a coagulum, and impassable” at the bruised part. The case of P. Ryan, related in the same section, in which a bullet had grazed, but not opened, the sheath of the femoral vessels, and bruised the femoral artery, affords another illustration. “ The vein, however, was not only also slightly contracted, but its internal surface was inflamed and filled with partially organized lymph, as far up as the entrance of the deep iliac vein, and downwards for about two inches from the wound. Its course was thus entirely sealed, but nothing like pus could be found in the femoral or iliac veins, nor in the system anywhere.”4 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, January, 1867, p. 39. 2 Ibid., January, 1867, pp. 41, 42. 3 Ibid., January, 1867, pp. 31, 32. 4 Surgical History of the Crimean War, vol. ii. p. 343.