€22 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. freshening, if this is necessary; (3) Passing the threads; and (4) Their ad- justment. (1) The search for the two ends of the cut nerve is generally easy, since these structures present but little contractility; nevertheless it demands accurate anatomical knowledge. If the wound is narrow and deep, it will be of great advantage to enlarge" it by an incision, parallel to the course of the nerve, in order to spare as much as possible the manipulation of the wound, which prevents immediate union, and also in order to facilitate the passing of the threads. For this first stage of the operation, Esmarch’s bandage will render service; if it be feared that the rubber band, applied from the extremity upwards, may increase the separation of the nerve-extremities by pushing back the upper end to a higher point, it will be then preferable to employ only the band with rings (Figs. 364, 365, page 77), which I long since pro- posed to take the place of the tube. The two extremities of the nerve are found without great difficulty; it may happen, however, especially when there are extended lesions of the neighboring structures, or when the nerve has undergone a loss of substance, that it may be impossible to find the cen- tral end; in this case, two different nerves may be united together (Flourens). If several nerves have been divided, the lower end of the most important nerve must be united to the upper end of another; for example, the lower end of the median nerve to the upper end of the musculo-cittaneous nerve; if the musculo-cutaneous be not divided, the grafting of the lower end of the median to the musculo-cutaneous nerve may be attempted, after freshening a small surface of the latter (Letievant). (2) The two ends of the nerve being found, if the section is clean-cut and recent, it only remains to pass the threads; if, on the contrary, the extremi- ties of the nerve are crushed, or if they have become separately cicatrized, most authors agree in advising to resect a portion of variable extent, and then to apply the suture, as if the case were one of recent wound. (3) We now come to the most delicate stage of nerve suture—to the 'pass- in g of the threads destined to connect the two extremities of the divided nerve-trunk. We shall successively examine the kind of needle and of thread which should be employed, the number of threads to be used, and the point at which they are to be passed. Generally, for this operation, ordinary, fine suture-needles are employed. Wolberg, of Warsaw, has proposed for this purpose a special needle; he has given it the shape of a curved sword, very thin and lance-shaped in the direction of its length, and with an oval eye, large enough to receive the thickest catgut. This author has examined with the microscope nerves sutured with this needle, and has found that the nerve-fibres have been notably less damaged than when an ordinary needle has been used. All kinds of thread have been employed. Gen recommends catgut; H. Page, catgut or silk ; Richet, silk; Vulpian, linen-thread; Jamain and Terrier, silk or silver wire; Letievant and Aelaton, silver wire. To sum up, the choice should lie between catgut, Chinese silk, and Florence thread. As to the number of points of suture and the part of the nerve-trunk which they should traverse, agreement is equally wanting. Weir Mitchell, in his experiments upon animals, obtained sufficient approximation by passing one or two threads into the neighboring tissues adherent to the sheath of the nerve; Richet advises placing two threads involving only the neurilemma; Wlalowski also is of the opinion that the neurilemma only should be included in the loop of thread, claiming that the consecutive paralysis is more marked when the nerve substance is involved; finally, others pass the thread through the nerve-substance itself (Aelaton, Wolberg, Vulpian, Tillaux, Letievant, Laugier). Among these, some traverse the nerve through and through, the