TUMORS OF NERVES. 593 mata upon the peripheral nerves is not demonstrated, and it is now long since that the opinion of Serres has been abandoned, which considered the multiple tumors of nerves as ganglia of new formation, and described the affection under the name of neuroplasia. It may be said, however, that Foerster admitted their existence, and that Robin has found, in a case of alteration of the solar plexus, a new formation of nerve-cells. (2) Fibrillar neuromata.—These are constituted of nerve-fibres of new for- mation, and are divided into two kinds, which may be considered as two stages of the same affection; the myelinic neuromata, formed by fibres with myelin, and the amyelinic neuromata, formed by fibres without myelin. The existence of these latter neuromata is contested by several authors, on ac- count of the difficulty of distinguishing the fibres of Remak. Billroth says that under this name have been described fibromata, which constitute certain varieties of multiple nerve-tumors. We should then be as yet reserved upon the subject of the existence of amyelinic neuromata (Cornil and Ranvier). The myelinic fibrillar neuromata have, for their type, the neuromata of stumps after amputation. Apart from these cases, they are rare, though this is not the opinion of Foerster and Virchow, who place in this variety most of the fibromata of nerves, which growths they resemble when sections are examined with the naked eye. These tumors are further described under the name of traumatic neuromata, for they are observed, not only in stumps after amputation, but after wounds of nerves, ligations of nerves, and even, according to Tripier, as a result of subcutaneous nerve-lesion (Weissmann, Dehler); they thus constitute certain painful subcutaneous tubercles (L. Labbe, Legros), and also plexiform neuro- mata (Verneuil). The type of these tumors is the amputation-neuroma. It has its seat upon the extremity of the divided nerve, at a greater or less distance from the cica- trix, according as the nerve has retracted, or has been cut at a higher or lower point. Its shape is oval, and often flattened, and it is continuous, directly or by means of radicles, with the cicatrix. The size of these neuromata varies from that of a large pea to that of a hen’s egg (Hutin); they are grayish, more or less vascular, firm, and elastic, and they present, upon section, the characters of compact fibromata. With the microscope, it is seen that they consist of interlacing and twisted nerve- fasciculi, inclosing myelinic nerve-fibres. Between them is found a variable amount of connective tissue. Sometimes the nerve-tissue predominates, some- times the connective tissue. Foerster seems to believe that these nerve-fibres are not continuous with those of the nerve, and that they constitute a sepa- rate system of fibres, originating from the connective tissue. Cornil and Ran- vier think that the twisted fibres have their origin from the old fibres, and are continuous with them. Their mode of development may be understood by referring to the phe- nomena of regeneration of nerves. Cornil and Ranvier express themselves upon this subject, as follows:— “ In the end of the central segment, two or three days after the operation on the rab- bit, the axis cylinders become hypertrophied in the neighborhood of the section, they seem then to be composed of fibrils (elementary fibrils), but subsequently they divide in the direction of their length, budding and extending into the cicatricial band. These nerve-fibres, then without medullary matter, which result from the budding of the old axis-cylinders, divide and subdivide in such a manner that a single nerve-fibre may give origin to a more or less considerable number of new nerve-fibres. Afterwards these VOL. III.—38