TREATMENT OF SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. 63 the groin, in contact with Poupart’s ligament, had been torn away, and a prodigious rent made across the artery, with a hole in the vein. He had flooded the floor, on which he lay, with gore, and was deadly faint when I arrived. It was late at night, and the rioters were all around. I, therefore, applied graduated compresses, and bound them down with a spica bandage. But it required two hours’ constant nursing, with his head and shoulders in my lap below the bedside, and the incessant use of cordials and brandy, to revive him. During his reaction the poor fellow was delirious, and wanted to go home. He had no return of hemorrhage, however, and by morning I got him so far recovered as to have him transported in a carriage to one of the hospitals. There, however, somebody stripped off his bandage and pulled away the compresses, to see how I had dressed the wound. The blood gushed out in a torrent, and a second fainting process carried off the patient.1 But, although the primary dressings should never be disturbed from motives of idle curiosity, especially in cases where the patient has already been brought low by hemorrhage, still instances not unfrequently occur where it is the bounden duty of the surgeon to re-open the wounds as soon as prac- ticable, and secure by ligatures, or by other effectual means, the open mouths of the wounded vessels; for instance, when the femoral artery is punctured by a penknife-blade, and blood is being more or less widely extravasated in the loose connective tissue between the muscles of the thigh; or the internal epigastric artery has been opened by a penetrating wound of the belly, and blood is flowing internally into the abdominal cavity; or the intercostal or internal mammary arteries are wounded, and blood is pouring therefrom into the pleural cavities—the dressings should he removed without delay, and well- directed efforts should be persistently made to stop the internal bleeding. To the femoral and internal epigastric arteries, ligatures should be applied on each side of the bleeding orifice. The intercostal and internal mammary arteries should also be tied if possible; but, in case of failure to ligate them, the bleeding should he stopped by Desault’s pad or tampon, the preparation and application of which will shortly be described. Chemico-Vital Treatment of Surgical Hemorrhage.—The chemico-vital agents which may be employed for the suppression of hemorrhages are very numerous, and are denominated chemico-vital haemostatics. But such, only, should be selected for use by the surgeon, as imitate, hasten, or assist the natural processes of haemostasis, or excite analogous ones: that is, such as act by arousing the contractility and retractility of the coats of arteries and veins and capillaries, thus lessening the size of the apertures; or, by forming oc- cluding coagula artificially, thus plugging and closing the apertures com- pletely ; or, by exciting adhesive inflammation within and around the aper- tures, thus making their closure permanent. The most important of these haemostatics will be enumerated. I. Cold.—The employment of cold has been handed down from ancient times. Celsus directs it to be used for stopping hemorrhage. Rhazes advises the application of snow for the same purpose. John Hunter saw the carotid artery of an ass markedly lessen when exposed. Baron Larrey states that, after the battle of Eylau, the mercury standing at about zero (Fahr.), ligatures were applied to the large bloodvessels only, in the operations generally, and that there was no trouble from hemorrhage, although the wounded, after having been cared for, were carried to a great distance.2 In the use of cold, then, we have an ancient, handy, safe, and powerful means for arresting bleeding. It may he applied in the form of fresh cold air. Merely opening Op. cit., p. 185. 2 Memoirs, vol. ii. p. 32, Am. ed.