413 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. It imitates the most unfortunate and dangerous form of spontaneous cure, and the practice is certainly not deserving of imitation. Coagulants applied directly to the blood may he either chemical or mechani- cal.1 I shall limit myself to a description of the injection of coagulating liquids, the introduction of certain solids, and galvano-puncture or electro- lysis. Injection of Coagulating Fluids.—Injection of fluids into aneurismal sacs originated with Monteggia,2 at the beginning of this century, and shortly after was advised by Wardrop. Various fluids were recommended, but they all yielded after a little to the superior coagulating qualities of the perchlo- ride of iron, with the use of which, and of the fine syringe employed for the purpose, the name of Pravaz is intimately united. Such injections may be valuable in some cases of nsevus and aneurism by anastomosis, but their use in aneurisms proper is only admissible in certain cases. Since each portion of a drop of the solution immediately coagulates into a soft solid the blood with which it comes in contact, means must be taken to retain the little lumps thus produced, in the sac, as otherwise they will entirely or in part escape along the artery below, as emboli; hence the method is only practicable when the vessel can be compressed below and above, so that the chemical may act upon stagnant blood.3 The mode of procedure is as follows: First, the vessel above and below must be entirely commanded, and then the fine needle-canula of a properly- graduated hypodermic-injection syringe is passed with a quick but properly restrained action into the tumor, the appearance of a drop or two of arterial blood marking its entrance; it should next be moved from left to right gently, but sufliciently to ascertain that its end lies in a cavity; then the syringe, filled with the injection-fluid, is to be applied to the socket of the needle, and the requisite quantity very slowly injected, while the point of the instrument is made to change its place in the sac, so as to distribute the liquid into various parts. When the amount fixed upon has been injected, or pre- viously, if sufficient coagulation appear to have taken place, the piston should be withdrawn a little, lest some of the fluid hanging to the end of the needle- canula should irritate the sac, and then the instrument may be removed. According to Signor Marsacci, the latest writer on this subject, and M. Dieulafoy, a little earlier, the solution should be weak, 1 part of the salt to 15 or 20 of distilled water; and the amount should not exceed five drops to every ounce of blood that the sac may be estimated to contain. After the withdrawal of the needle, the puncture may be protected with collodion, and pressure on the vessel above should be continued for an hour, and on that below for double the time, if it can be borne. Since coagulant injections can only be employed with some approach to safety from the risk of embolism, when a sufficient length of artery to afford space for pressure lies both above and below the sac, it follows that any aneurism to which this treatment can be applied is well situated for almost any curative means, and the duty of the surgeon is to choose the safest. The danger of embolism may, by great care, and, as I cannot help thinking, by good'duck, 1 Space hardly permits a historic account of the use of a number of coagulants, such as heat, as employed by Sir Everard Home ; certain powders ; and other means which may be termed eccentric. 2 Institutions de Chirurgie, 1815. 3 Certain surgeons have thus treated aortic, innominate, and subclavian aneurisms ; evidently, from what has just been said, an improper application of the method, and destined to prove in- jurious.