700 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. There will be much variation in these respects, according to the varying mechanism of the several injuries. Dislocations of the Hip Complicated by Fracture.—Fractures of the shaft of the femur, accompanying any form of dislocation, greatly embarrass the process of reduction, as they deprive us of the leverage of the shaft in manipulation. Traction, however, may be employed efficaciously, and in several directions, unless the fracture be in close proximity to the joint. With the pubic dislocation, direct pressure- upon the bone assists much in reduction. A probability of success attends patient trials even in these diffi- cult cases. Should, however, all efforts fail, the alternative is presented either of leaving the luxation unreduced until union has occurred, and then treating the case as one of ancient dislocation, or of making a subcutaneous section of the outer side of the Y ligament with the tenotome, in accordance with the practice recommended in dislocations of the elbow and other joints, rather than leave the bone unreduced. Under antiseptics, the operation is no more dangerous than the same amount of injury to the soft parts by simple tearing. I have frequently divided in this manner the resisting bands of old dislocations of other joints, and have thus accomplished reduction which was impossible by ordinary means, without causing the slightest unfavorable re- action, and without ever seeing bad results follow. For dividing the Y liga- ment at its most resisting part, the tenotome should be entered over the prominence of the trochanter, carrying it deeply inward and giving it a curved sweep from before backward, so as to graze the upper margin of the bone. Instead of section of the ligament, an incision may be made below the trochanter, down to the bone on its outer side, and the shaft may then be seized with lion-jawed forceps, while assistants hold the limb vertically and make strong extension, and so manipulated as to effect reduction; after which, proper extension for the fracture, and proper dressings for the wound, may be applied as usual. In spite of their severity, these measures, in my opinion, are warranted by the extremity of the case. Voluntary Dislocations of the Hip.—Of late years, several persons with abnormally lax joints have excited the interest of physicians and medical students, by their extraordinary power of changing the shape of their joints, so as to make them appear the seat of dislocation. These are cases of con- genital peculiarity, in which several members of the same family are simi- larly constituted. One man in Chicago has so cultivated his power of dis- placing the bones, that he can at will produce nearly perfect dislocations of most of the synovial joints. His joints have always been very movable, and by cultivating the action of certain muscles he has attained the power of slipping the articulating surfaces of such joints as the hip and knee, in any direction at will. This laxity of his joint-capsules does not in any way interfere with his bodily strength or power of limb. He is, on the contrary, a man of great physical strength, and of unusual skill in gymnastic feats re- quiring steadiness and precision. Ancient Dislocations of the Hip.—It was the opinion of Sir Astley Cooper that the shoulder-joint became so fixed in three months after disloca- tion, and the hip-joint in eight weeks, that it was in most cases imprudent to make any powerful attempt at reduction after those periods. I believe, however, that reduction can nearly always be accomplished even after a longer time. Much caution and patience, and a certain degree of boldness, where experience has shown that we may proceed safely, are requisite in the handling of these cases. On the one hand, greater force and greater persist-