85 TREATMENT OF HEMORRHAGE BY LIGATION. Mode of Ligating a Divided Artery.—In order to ligate a wounded artery, after exposing its open mouth to view, it must be seized with suitable forceps, or a tenaculum, and drawn out a little from its bed, where it must be steadily held by the surgeon, while, with plain artery forceps in the other hand, he carefully separates or detaches from it all the contiguous structures, but especially the accompanying nerves. The ligature must then be passed around the upper or proximal end of the wounded artery. Ho nerve must be included in the loop, for the ligation of a nerve causes always intense suffering, frequently muscular spasms in the injured limb—sometimes death from tetanus. Many examples illustrating and corroborating this statement—like that of Lord Nelson, whose sufferings were very great for four months after his arm was amputated, because a nerve had been included in the ligature put around the brachial artery—have been placed on record. The ligature must be drawn with just enough force to divide the inner and middle coats of the artery, the giving way of which the surgeon often dis- tinctly feels. Next, a ligature must be applied to the lower or distal end of the wounded artery also, in an equally careful manner. Moreover, in apply- ing both ligatures care must be taken not to draw the artery too far out of its sheath, because the destruction of the vasa vasorum consequent thereon might lead to sloughing of the artery-walls and secondary hemorrhage. The ligature, having been drawn sufficiently tight, should then be secured or fastened with a reef-knot (Fig. 382), and without any pulling or dragging Fig. 382. Fig. 383. Fig. 384. of the artery itself. The “granny” (Fig. 383) must not be used, because it easily becomes loose. The surgeon’s knot (Fig. 384), also, must not be em- ployed in tying arteries, because it may fail to close the lumen of the vessel.1 Boyer remarks that the surgeon’s knot has the inconvenience of being tightened with difficulty, while at the same time it fails to entirely close the artery, even though great force be employed in tightening it; and that its disadvantage is proved by the following case: Chopart operated on a gardener for popliteal aneurism in presence of the most distinguished professors of the Ancient School of Surgery, by the old method. The ligatures being placed, and the first being tightened by the surgeon’s knot, the com- pression was withdrawn, but, notwithstanding, the blood escaped abundantly. A second and a third ligature were placed and tightened in the same manner, and with as small success. The failure, after a moment’s deliberation, was attributed to the ossification of the artery, or to some unknown cause, and it was decided to amputate. On examining the limb, however, the artery was found in a natural state; it was embraced by the three ligatures; but, although these ligatures had been tightened in the most for- 1 These cuts are the same as Figs. 138, 139, and 140, in Yol. 1. p. 576; they are reproduced here as a matter of convenience.