676 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. the surgeon being seated at the patient’s sound side, and placing his leg across the patient’s breast. Anaesthesia may be employed with advantage. The foot, placed as above directed, serves for counter-extension against the force of the traction exerted by the hands grasping the forearm, and also- as a sort of fulcrum, just as when the knee is used in the same way. Ancient Dislocations.—Unreduced dislocations of the elbow become hope- less sooner than those of the shoulder. A large number become almost irre- ducible in six weeks. Even after this time, however, they should not be given up without trial. After nine weeks I have succeeded in effecting restoration of a luxated elbow by the use of Jarvis’s adjuster, combined with subcutaneous section of the lateral ligaments under antiseptic precautions. This resource I consider an extremely valuable one, and one also which is nearly harmless, if care be observed, in passing the tenotome, not to injure the ulnar nerve where it crosses close to the internal lateral ligament; wTith no possible harm, great assistance may be rendered by dividing the tendon of the triceps. Forced flexion and other movements also assist in breaking up adhesions. Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna Outward.—Lateral dislocations at the elbow-joint are usually incomplete, though in some very severe injuries, both bones of the forearm are completely luxated, and may be found lying upon the side of the humerus, producing great deformity. When the bones are thrown toward the radial side, or outward, the study of the landmarks shows the olecranon to be removed too far from the inner, and to be placed too near the external condyle. The radius is also thrust too far outward, and the cuplike cavity of its head can be felt with the fingers through the integument. The arm is some- what flexed, because the olecranon, being carried away from its fossa, strikes the back of the external condyle, and prevents full extension. The inner condyle is too prominent, and the depression in front of it more marked than usual. The diagnosis from fracture must rest mainly upon the absence of crepitus, and upon the immobility of the various bony parts. Dislocation of Both Bones Inward.—Very few cases of this kind have heen recorded. The head of the ulna rests in the hollow between the internal condyle and the trochlear eminence of the humerus. The deformity is not conspicuous, and this dislocation is often overlooked on account of the long, projecting internal condyle concealing by its prominence the misplaced ulna. Careful study of the four landmarks at once shows the same condition of affairs as that already described in the outward form, only reversing the direc- tions there named. The olecranon is much too near the inner condyle. Treatment.—Extension of the forearm is made by assistants, while the surgeon presses upon the bones in order to coapt them. The reduction is easy, and little tendency is found to the reproduction of the luxation. Dislocation of the Radius and Ulna in Opposite Directions.—Disloca- tion of the radius forward and of the ulna backward, is an injury of which at least four or five cases have been recorded- Traction and pressure upon the ends of the bones should be employed, as has been directed for each luxa- tion. One or both bones may in this manner be reduced. Compound Dislocations at the Elbow.—These are grave and sometimes fatal injuries. More conservative treatment is, however, justifiable here than in the ankle-joint or knee, because the danger to life is less. Pi'ompt closure of the external wound, with full antiseptic treatment, may even secure a reco-