430 ANEURISM. due to pressure on the vein rather than on the artery. Suppuration of the sac, especially when the cessation of pulsation has been rapidly produced, must not he left out of sight. Erysipelas, with gangrene at the place of pressure, has in some instances followed moderate compression.1 Even pyaemia, al- though no external wound has been produced, may result ;2 while Mr. Savory’s well-known case shows that thrombosis with solidification of the lung, may also follow; and Mr. Pemberton3 gives an instance of the produc- tion of arterio-venous aneurism at the seat of compression. It is not intended to assert that these accidents are common, or even otherwise than rare, but they must be taken into account; for we have, when we propose to subject a patient to any form of pressure, to consider the possibly protracted treatment, the very considerable uncertainty, the tendency to relapse, and the occasional occurrence of severe, or even of fatal complications. Another point deserving of very careful consideration is the state of the vessels after the failure of compression, and whether they are left in a state more or less favorable for the application of a ligature. I think that some of those who have expressed themselves on this subject have attempted to answer the question on too broad a ground, and on too general principles. We may, first, consider the result of proximal pressure, digital or instru- mental, applied for a moderate time, and so as to produce no obvious lesion. If such treatment have been employed, for instance, on the femoral artery, at and a little "below the groin, there is no doubt that the collateral vessels will have become enlarged; but this is, in many cases, a detriment rather than an advantage, and may lead to such free flow of blood by the side arte- ries into the sac, that pulsation rapidly recurs after ligature, and no consoli- dation occurs. Therefore we may affirm that in persons whose arteries are rigid, either from age or other causes, the effect of pressure on a subsequent deligation, will, undoubtedly, be beneficial, as tending to diminish the risk of gangrene; but that in persons, whether young or old, whose vessels are not stiffened by atheroma or calcification, the effect of unsuccessful pressure will be to jeopardize the result of subsequent ligation, by permitting, through the enlarged collaterals, too ready an influx of blood into the sac. The same may be said concerning failures oi flexion, and there seems, moreover, to be, under such circumstances, a considerable tendency to sup- puration or rupture of the sac, when recourse is afterwards had to ligature. When, the Esmarch bandage proving useless, deligation is employed, there seems also to be some tendency to suppuration of the sac, but the especial danger is gangrene. Unless rapid growth of the aneurism should render immediate measures necessary, some days should elapse between the abandon- ment of Reid’s method and the application of the ligature, in order to allow the vessels, which have been somewhat rudely closed, to recover their elas- ticity. The artery should not be tied at the spot to which the cord has been applied. When any form of pressure has produced gangrene of distal parts, the application of the ligature, which will be a necessity if the aneurism continues to enlarge, increases the area of sphacelus. When gangrene of the soft parts at the place of pressure has resulted,4 no 1 Gay, Subclavio-axillary Aneurism, Lancet, Feb. 10, 1872. 2 Bulletins et Memoires de la Societe de Chirurgie de Paris, quoted in Lancet, Jan. 15, 1870. 3 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xliv. p. 189. 4 A certain number of patients cured by proximal pressure, have suffered from gangrene invad- ing the tissues pretty deeply at the spot compressed. Others, whose integuments have become gangrenous, have not been cured. I consider that to carry treatment thus far is improper ; if the case be not cured, or if, as has sometimes happened, a rapid relapse take place, the patient, with a slough over the artery, is in very great peril.