ANEURISM. 476 the body; so also the needle must be passed on either side from right to left. A difficulty is experienced sometimes in getting the instrument sufficiently far around the vessel to release the ligature, or to arm the needle, as the case may be. I have devised a needle which obviates this trouble (Fig. 542). The Fig. 542. lower, curved end being mounted on the shank by a hinge, can be projected forward by pressure on the trigger; so that without moving the handle or body of the instrument, the eye can be made to pass around the vessel.1 If the upper part of the external iliac is to be tied, the vessel will he found a little nearer the surface; on the left side,'the vein is inside; on the right, behind the artery; the needle is used lower down in the wound. The short trunk, termed internal iliac or hypogastric, lies a little further inwards ; the peritoneum must be pushed back nearly to the middle line, the bifurcation of the common trunk distinctly felt, and the vessel traced thence in front of the sacro-iliac joint; the artery should be tied as low as is feasi- ble. The way in which, on the left side, it crosses over the vein must be borne in mind, lest the instrument, being carried too far back, should wound or include that vessel. Abdominal Aneurism. The description of tying the internal iliac artery has forestalled somewhat what is to be said in connection with this subject, but to have separated it from deligation of the other iliacs would have necessitated a troublesome repetition, whereas a retrospect only is now needed. The internal iliac may require ligature for aneurism about the buttock; the lower part of the exter- nal iliac for femoral aneurism ; the upper part of the same vessel for aneurism in the iliac fossa; and, if the sac of the aneurism rise high, it may even be necessary to occlude the common iliac just above its bifurcation. But the latter vessel may also he tied, or, at least, the operation comes into consideration, in cases of aneurism lying somewhat low in the abdomen. The division of the aorta into the common iliacs takes place below the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, and clinically, and on the living body, may be taken to lie about three-quarters of an inch below the umbilicus; hence we may roughly assume, unless evidence to the contrary be adduced, that aneurisms pulsating below that point are of the common iliac artery, and those above it of the abdominal aorta, or of one of its branches; the branch most often thus affected is the coeliac axis, the next the superior mesenteric. A few words must here be said concerning pulsating tumors of the abdomen and their diagnosis. It is well known that, in some persons, pulsations of the abdominal aorta may be felt on the surface of the abdomen with startling 1 This instrument was devised for tying the subclavian artery in a person whose clavicle was much raised.