INJURIES' OF BLOODVESSELS. 324 merits. The septum in the deep fascia is to be recognized by its white line. Divide it longitudinally, and likewise by a cruciform incision. Flex the foot to relax the muscles, when, the sides of the wound being separated by draw- ing the tibialis anticus inward, and the extensor longus digitorum and ex- tensor proprius pollicis outward, the anterior tibial nerve is found lying more superficial than the artery and its accompanying veins. Pass the needle from within outward. Operation at the Loiver Third.—Here the artery is covered by the integu- ment and the fasciae, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. Low down, it lies between the tendon of this muscle and the ten- dons of the extensor longus digitorum. It is accompanied by two veins and the anterior tibial nerve; the latter runs to the outer side. Having placed the leg in a horizontal posture and extended the foot, and having recognized the position of the tibialis anticus muscle, make an incision three inches in length, along the external border of that muscle, on the line already indicated, but not extending to the annular ligament. On a grooved director, carefully incise the deep fascia, and find the space between the tibialis anticus and ten- don of the extensor proprius pollicis, and separate them with the index finger. Now flex the foot and expose the artery, which rests on the tibia with the nerve superficial to it. Separate the artery from the venae comites, and pass the needle from within outward, the nerve being drawn inward. If the in- cision happen to fall between the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis and the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum, the ligature may still be passed around the artery. Fig. 509. ligation of the arteria dor- salis pedis. (Sedillot.) Ligation of the Arteria Dorsalis Pedis.—The dor- salis pedis artery runs forward along the tibial side of the dorsum of the foot, from the ankle-joint to the great toe, where it divides into two branches, the dorsalis hal- lucis and the communicating. Its course corresponds to a line drawn from the middle of the inter-malleolar space to a point midway between the anterior extremities of the first two metatarsal bones. It is covered by the integu- ment, the fasciae, and the innermost tendon of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum. On its inner side lies the ten- don of the extensor proprius pollicis, and on its outer side the inner tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. It is accompanied by the veins, and externally by the anterior tibial nerve. Operation.—Make an incision two inches in length, on the line above described (Fig. 509), parallel to the external border of the tendon of the extensor proprius pollicis. Divide the deep fascia on a grooved director. Draw the internal division of the extensor brevis digi- torum outward, and the artery with its venae comites will bo exposed. The nerve lies on the outer side. Pass the needle from within outward.