WOUNDS OF VEINS. 205 not much infiltration of urine ; that the right ramus of the os pubis was shattered into fragments ; and that the right femoral vein was widely opened by the wound. The specimen is preserved in the Army Medical Museum, and has been already figured in this work in the article on Gunshot Wounds. (See Fig. 300, Vol. II. p. 209.) The open- ing in the vessel is very large. In this case death was due to anaemic exhaustion, the result of numerous small hemorrhages. The original orifice in the vein probably became enlarged by the separation of a slough. At the outset it appears to have been but small. In the following example the femoral vein was cut almost in two by a pistol-ball. Death ensued from hemorrhage in about two hours, although what was thought to be efficient compression was applied to the wound Private John Eberhardt, Co. A, 17th Infantry, aged 21, was shot on October 29, 1868, at Belton, Texas, by a ball from a Colt’s navy-revolver, which entered the right thigh three inches below Poupart’s ligament, internal to the sartorius muscle, passed back- ward and slightly upward, nearly severing the femoral vein, grazed the femur, internally, at the junction of the shaft and neck, passed through the gluteal muscles, and lodged under the cuticle opposite the great ischiatic notch. The patient, unawai'e of his wound, continued walking or running until he fell, faint from the loss of blood. He was seen some fifteen or twenty minutes after the occurrence; the missile was extracted, an efficient compress was placed over the wound, and stimulants were administered. But he never reacted. He died in about two hours from hemorrhage.1 This example supports my view, that in cases when the femoral vein is severed, or almost severed, the hemorrhage cannot be restrained by compres- sion, unless by ligature of the femoral artery the supply of blood to the distal part of the limb is cut off at the same time. In cases where it is not advi- sable to tie the artery, the wounded vein should be ligatured without any delay above and below the aperture; or else primary amputation should be performed. In the following case the femoral vein was injured together with the accom- panying nerve. Death ensued in four days from the loss of blood and morti- fication of the leg:— A citizen, aged 17, was wounded by Indians, at night, while sitting at a camp-fire, just outside the stockade of Fort Philip Kearney, on November 2, 1866. The missiles were supposed to be slugs from a shot-gun. Two entered the inner side of the right thigh, in the middle third, and passed through just behind the femur. Two others passed through the calf of the right leg ; another comminuted the second joint of the right index finger. Liquor ferri persulphat. was used to arrest the hemorrhage, which was venous, and simple dressings were applied. The patient died on the 6th, from shock, venous hemorrhage, and gangrene of the leg. An autopsy revealed laceration of the femoral nerve and injury of the femoral vein.2 In a case reported on the same page, which I have already mentioned in another place, where the femoral artery and vein were both severed by a round pistol-ball, death occurred in a few minutes, from hemorrhage. In another case, reported on page 85, of the same circular, where the femoral artery and vein were severed in a shot wound, the man bled to death, notwithstanding the apparently prompt application of a tourni- quet. In such cases as these two, however, the hemorrhage is mainly arterial. For injuries like those sustained by the citizen above-mentioned, namely, laceration of the femoral vein with laceration of a great nerve and shot-perforations of the calf of same leg, primary amputation should always be performed. There is a case of gunshot wound involving the right femoral vein, recorded in the Medical and Surgical History of the War,3 in Which life was prolonged i Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., p. 86. Second Surgical Volume, p. 339. 2 Ibid., p. 73.