DISLOCATION OF THE ACROMIAL END OF THE CLAVICLE. 659 ness of most patients to submit to prolonged treatment. The horizontal posi- tion would help greatly in the management of these cases, and with this aid no doubt most cures would be perfect; but as the injury is scarcely a disa- bling one, even to the arm, patients seldom consent to confinement, and can with difficulty be induced to wear the necessary dressings for the proper length of time. The greatest obstacle to perfect retention is the tension of the trapezius, which tends constantly to lift the bone out of its socket while the weight of the arm carries the shoulder downward. The arm must be lifted, and the shoulder held outward by an axillary pad, as in luxations of the sternal end. Inclining the head and neck toward the affected side tends to relax the trapezius muscle, and is therefore useful in assisting retention, where patients will tolerate the awkwardness of the position. All these measures are, however, but subsidiary to the main, effi- cient means of retention, direct pressure upon the misplaced extremity of the clavicle, while the scapula is forced upward by bands beneath the elbow. A firm compress should be laid upon the flat extremity of the clavicle. In my own practice, broad and long adhesive straps, whose centres pass beneath the elbow of the injured side, are drawn tightly and crossed upon the compress, where the ends of the straps pass each other, being then continued down about ten inches upon the chest and back. At first, an added band from the elbow across the sound shoulder will assist in lifting the scapula. When this dressing has been well Applied, the affected shoulder is seen to be held several inches above the other, and, to the touch, the border of the trapezius seems much less tense. After the first week, the bone will usually be seen to hold its position more firmly, but will still slip out if the shoulder be allowed to droop. Less rigid dressings may now be used, still embodying, however, the com- press and straps to confine and raise the arm. The forearm is to be kept in a sling, and the elbow drawn toward the opposite side, as well as upward. In all cases which have come under my personal observation, the retention has been much aided by keeping the hand of the affected side well up toward the sound shoulder, as nearly as possible in the position used in applying the test for dislocation of the humerus. It will not be possible, in many cases, to induce the patient to endure the constraint of keeping the hand actually capped over the point of the opposite shoulder, but it is quite readily brought and retained far enough up for the finger tips to rest upon the head of the humerus. The following case, reported by Dr. E. Wyllys Andrews, resulted in perfect reten- tion without deformity. Thomas W., a young man employed in a wholesale milli- nery establishment in Chicago, tripped over a wire while at work, and fell Heavily upon the left shoulder, the direction of the blow being toward the median plane and the arm being close to the body. He was removed from the roof of the building where the acci- dent occurred, and was seen by Dr. Andrews a few moments afterwards. A large contu- sion over the deltoid muscle showed where the greatest force of the fall had been expended, and the patient described his fall as having been so unexpected that the arm had not been put out as usual, so that he had been thrown violently, at full length. There were slight contusions on the outer side of the arm as far as the elbow. The patient com- plained of a sense of helplessness and dropping down of the shoulder, but not much of pain. He was found sitting upright in a chair, his head instinctively bent toward the left, hurt shoulder, which he kept lifted three-fourths of an inch above the other by pushing upward upon the elbow with the other hand. The elbow was also drawn some- what across, in front, and hugged tightly against the body. As first seen, the position was not very unlike that which afterwards proved to be the best suited to retaining the dislocated bone in place. The acromial end of the clavi- cle projected under the integument, about half or three-quarters of an inch above, and slightly outward and backward from, its articular facet on the acromion. Slight pres-