DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 707 found still turned over, the foot may be reduced by making extension, or by carrying it around toward the axis of the limb, after which the fracture of the malleolus, which commonly but not invariably has occurred, is to be properly adjusted, and dressed with splints or plaster. The broken end of the fibula is sometimes very thoroughly separated from its shaft, and I have seen it completely overset, and presenting its ragged, broken edge outward and down- ward, even when the foot was replaced. Gare should be taken that this loose fragment be set nicely into its old position. An anaesthetic is usually neces- sary. In the more complete forms of displacement, very powerful traction may be required. Jarvis’s adjuster, or pulleys, may be employed for this purpose. The patient being laid upon his back, the thigh is fiexed upon the trunk and the knee sharply bent, to obtain muscular relaxation. Counter-extension is best secured by means of a band around the thigh, just above the knee, passing thence to some firm support, should pulleys have to he resorted to. A loop of cloth around the ankle furnishes attachment to the extending hands. The bent position relaxes the gastrocnemius muscle, and deprives the tendo Achillis of much of its power of resistance. As the extension is gradually applied by assistants, the surgeon employs his hands in making pressure upon the tibia and foot in such directions as tend to bring the bones together. Rest in bed will usually be required in the after-treatment of these cases,' even where no fracture of the malleolus is present. Bavarian plaster-dressings are of excellent service in cases where a fracture complicates the luxation. Backward Dislocation of the Tarsus.—Backward luxation of the foot upon the leg, sometimes called “Dislocation of the lower end of the tibia and fibula forward upon the foot,” is of particular interest on account of the diffi- culties in the way of its reduction, the embarrassments encountered in main- taining the bones in position, and the malpractice suits which have resulted from the maimed condition in which the foot is often left. Causes.—The producing cause must be found in some extreme violence exerted in the direction of the shaft of the tibia, when the foot is fixed upon the ground; hence falls, in which the patient strikes upon the feet, are the most common causes of this injury. Pathology.—The great tendency to redisplacement met with in this dislo- cation, was not satisfactorily understood until Professor Jarjavay, of the Hopital Beaujon, of Paris, demonstrated by a large number of dissections the existence of a fracture of the posterior rim of the articulation. The posterior ligaments, instead of being ruptured, were still intact in nearly all of these cases, and strongly united to the posterior lip of the joint cavity. The latter still retained its normal position in relation to the foot, having been separated from the rest of the bone by a fracture running obliquely up- ward and backward. By reference to the annexed cut (Fig. 578), it may he readily seen that the removal of this posterior lip reduces the tibia at its lower end to a single inclined plane, which renders it extremely easy for the foot to slip backward, or, as some prefer to say, for the tibia to slip forward upon the foot. Upon the smoothly rounded astragalus, the position of this broken joint surface, when reduced, is one of extremely unstable equilibrium, so that mus- cular contraction inevitably causes recurrence of displacement when extension is relaxed. It is said that Malgaigne made such strenuous attempts to retain the foot in place that, in one or more instances, he sacrificed the life of the patient by over-zealous efforts. His results, however, were no more com- mendable than those of other surgeons less energetic in their methods. The fibula is usually fractured in these, as in the lateral dislocations.