INJURIES OE BLOODVESSELS. 62 disseminated among the laity as well as the profession, for no consequences but good ones can result therefrom. Under any circumstances, efforts should be promptly and perseveringly made, whenever practicable, to stay the hem- orrhage in all desperate cases by compressing the opened artery or vein with fingers in the wound, according to the method shown above, until surgical attendance can be obtained and ligatures properly applied. Had such a course been adopted in the cases of Privates Fairchild and Riley, mentioned above, and in several others of which I have personal knowledge, it is not too much to say that their lives might have been saved. Gunshot wounds of any region of the body do not, in general, bleed as freely as incised wounds of the same region, that are similar in depth and extent. This difference is occasioned by the fact that the former are, for the most part, contused and lacerated in their nature. It is well known that when bloodvessels are severed by either a contusing or a lacerating force, the dispo- sition to hemorrhage is considerably lessened by the form of the injury. When limbs are torn off' by machinery, or crushed off' by railway carriages, or carried away by cannon-balls, the loss of blood is not always so great as to prove fatal. In such cases the bleeding, which at first is very profuse, often ceases with the occurrence of syncope, and afterward does not recur to any con- siderable extent. If we examine the bruised and torn stump of a limb which has just been severed by a cannon-ball, we find that the smaller arteries give issue to but little if any blood, because their extremities are more or less completely closed by being blended with the crushed mass of muscular and connective tissue in the first place, and by the natural contraction of their muscular and elastic tissues in the second place. The main arteries in such cases may sometimes be seen hanging out of the ragged stumps, and pulsating down to their ends, which, however, are closed more or less completely by their contraction, and, generally, by the presence also of plugs of coagulated blood within the constricted orifices, which may perfect their occlusion. But the completeness of their closure accords in many instances with the lapse of time after the injury, being found to be more thorough after a con- siderable than after a brief interval. Thus we perceive that cases of contused, or of lacerated, or of gunshot wounds of arteries, may sometimes admit of delay in respect to surgical treatment, which would be wholly inadmissible in cases of incised wounds of the same arteries. When wounds have been properly dressed, especially those that implicate large bloodvessels—for instance, wounds of the armpit involving the axillary artery or vein, wounds of the neck compromising the carotids or the internal jugular, wounds of the groin involving the common femoral artery or vein, etc.—much wariness should be exercised in regard to disturbing the dress- ings, unless there be a return of the bleeding; and even then, preparations should be made beforehand, and everything should be got ready to meet any possible emergency in the shape of hemorrhage bursting forth from the wound as soon as the bandage and compresses are taken off. Nothing can be more reprehensible than to disturb, from mere inquisitiveness, the dressings of a wound in which a great hemorrhage has just been arrested. As long as the parts are dry and quiet, they should generally he let alone until the normal discharges begin to loosen the dressings. By that time the processes of ad- hesion may have permanently closed the orifice in the wounded artery or vein, and thus all secondary bleeding may be prevented. During the riots in Southwark (says McClellan), I dressed a horrid cannon-shot ■wound in the right groin of a young soldier from Germantown. He had been struck there by a broken piece of cast iron, with the fragments of which one of the cannon in the hands of the mob had been loaded. The whole fore-part of the fleshy substance of