7 ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION OF MUSCLE. 1 whether the pigment is of haematic origin, or whether it results from changes in the coloring matter of the muscle. Fatty Degeneration.—In the fatty degeneration proper, fat granules are found in varying amount in the sarcous elements, in the earlier stages only in the immediate vicinity of the nucleus, but at a later period substituting more or less completely the contractile substance, with corresponding destruction of the invaded part of the muscle. This change, usually slowly produced and of limited extent, may, on the other hand, be very rapidly developed, and may affect, more or less, all the muscles of the body, as notably in cases of phosphorus poisoning. Such fatty-degenerated muscle-fibre must generally, perhaps always, be absorbed, though possibly at times the absorption may be only of the fat granules. It is very probable, judging from the results of experimental investigations upon similar changes occurring in certain of the lower orders of animals, that the absorption of the substituted fat in chronic cases may occasionally be followed by muscular re-development. Besides this true degeneration, fat is found both within and without the sarcolemma as an infiltration or accumulation, either producing no effect upon the con- tractile substance, or destroying it simply by pressure. The deposit in the connective tissue between the fibrillse, pathological in many cases, as, for example, after nerve lesions (when, according to V ulpian, true fatty degenera- tion never occurs), is very often met with as a physiological change, purely compensatory, filling up the spaces that are left by the fibres undergoing simple atrophy. Waxy Degeneration; Vitreous Degeneration.—In this form, attention to which was first called by Zenker, the muscular elements are found to be con- verted into a peculiar, transparent, waxy or vitreous mass, exceedingly friable, readily breaking up into cuboidal blocks, while the muscular connective tissue at the same time undergoes proliferation. This is the form of degene- ration so frequently met with in yellow fever and typhoid fever, and which occurs also in typhus, scarlet fever, and some other acute febrile affections. It has been observed also in cases of tetanus, and in the immediate vicinity of tumors,and has occasionally,though very rarely, been found after nerve lesions. Hot all the muscular fibres usually are involved, some perfectly healthy being found in immediate relation with those more or less completely degenerated. As might naturally be expected, this condition is associated with weakness, more or less pain, and marked impairment of the functional integrity of the muscles, which, as we have already seen, are not infrequently ruptured in consequence of very slight violence. Various theories have been proposed in explanation of these degenerative changes—that they are due to a peculiar infection; to high heat, which condition Claude Bernard has proved is a poison to the muscular tissue; and to muscle inflammation and its results: the latter is the view most generally adopted at present. Erb maintains that it is of the nature of a cadaveric change, re- quiring for its development an imbibition of serum and the absence of post- mortem rigidity, which latter condition is not developed in muscles thus affected. However produced, one thing is very certain, that it is a change that can end only in the destruction of the affected fibres. The vitreously degenerated sarcous elements must disappear, and new fibres take their place, in cases that recover. Whether these new fibres are developed wholly from the muscular cellules, or partly from cells of or outside of the perimysium, is a question as yet unsettled; or, as Strauss has expressed it, “ The influence of the non-participation of the cellular elements of the perimysium, in muscular regeneration, is far from being as yet absolutely demonstrated.” The same