128 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. fatal, unless these arteries are seasonably and properly secured with ligatures. During our late civil war, five patients having wounds of the abdominal walls which did not open the abdominal cav- ity, were destroyed by the hemorrhages which occurred and recurred, in spite of the application of styptics and com- presses, until exhaustion and death from loss of blood closed the scene.1 In four additional cases where the circumflex iliac artery was opened by shot-wounds, the hemorrhages proved fatal, in spite, too, of the application of styptics and compresses.2 In still another case of hemorrhage from a wound of the abdo- minal wall, where styptics (Monsel’s salt) had been applied again and again with- out permanently arresting the bleeding, the external iliac artery was tied, hut without success.3 These examples most emphatically teach that wounds of the internal epigastric, circumflex iliac, and lumbar arteries should not be re- garded as trivial; but as demanding the rigorous application of the rules for arresting hemorrhage from all wounded arteries of magnitude, viz., exposure of the bleeding aperture to view, and ligation of the artery on each side of it. Moreover, the application of distal ligatures is all the more necessary in these cases, because the terminal branches of the internal epigastric artery are directly continuous with those of the internal mammary, and the terminal branches of the circumflex iliac are directly continuous with those of the ilio- lumbar artery, as is shown in the accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 421); and, therefore, when proximal ligatures only are put on these arteries, when wounded, there still remains a great liability to the recurrence of hemorrhage from the regurgitation of blood through the distal part of the vessel into the wound, as soon as the blood-pressure is raised high enough by general reaction to expel the coagulum from the distal orifice in the artery. Boyer speaks forcibly of the importance of ligation for hemorrhage from these wounds, and gives particulars of an instructive case of wound of the internal epigastric artery, that proved fatal, in which this measure had been neglected. Guthrie several times saw this artery tied with success. In the case of a Portuguese soldier stabbed in the belly with a sabre, there was profuse hemorrhage from a small wound made by the point of the weapon. This wound Guthrie enlarged until the wounded but undivided artery became visible; upon this two ligatures were placed, and the external wound was sewed up. The man recovered.4 In lesions of the abdominal walls, then, when the hemorrhage is severe, and the wound not large enough to allow the bleeding point in the artery to he seen, the surgeon must enlarge the wound until the punctured artery can be seen, and can be secured. We need not fear the hemorrhage as long as such a wound is open and we can place a finger on the bleeding point. But when the surgeon trusts to external pressure, and closes such a wound without securing the punctured artery Fig 420. Skey’s artery compressor. 1 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surg. Vol., pp. 9, 10 2 Ibid., p. 324. 3 Ibid., p. 10. 4 Commentaries, etc., p. 510, Am. ed.