INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 292 expose the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and draw it upward; divide the deep fascia, and expose the sheath of the vessels; open it directly over the artery, carfully avoiding the descendens noni nerve, which runs along its tracheal side; press the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein away from the artery, that is, outward, and pass the needle from without inward, being careful not to include within the ligature the inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve, which lie behind and on the inner side of the vessel. If the omo-hyoid muscle interfere with the opera- tion, it may be turned aside, or even divided. Above the omo-hyoid muscle the common carotid artery is still more accessible, and at this point it is very often ligatured. It is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, deep fascia, and anterior border of the sterno-mastoid; it is in relation internally with the larynx and pharynx, and, externally, with the pneumogastric nerve and internal jugular vein. To tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid, proceed thus:—Place the patient on his back, with his shoulders raised by a pillow, and his head turned to the opposite side; make an incision, three inches in length, com- mencing a little below the angle of the jaw, in the line' above described, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, dividing the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides; then carefully raise the deep fascia on a grooved director, and incise it; avoid injuring the small underlying veins ; flex the head to relax the muscles, and draw the margins of the wound apart with retractors; avoid the descendens noni nerve and the superior thyroid artery; open the sheath directly over the carotid; if the internal jugular vein swell up into the incision, compress it in the upper and lower parts of the wound, and draw it outward; pass the ligature from without inward, the point of the needle being kept close to the artery, in order to avoid wounding the internal jugular vein or including the pneumogastric nerve. The point of election for deligating the common carotid artery is opposite to, or on a level with, the crico-thyroid membrane, and, in performing this operation, the omo-hyoid muscle is often drawn downward ; otherwise the steps are identical with those just given. Ligation of the External,and Internal Carotid Arteries.—These vessels arise from the common carotid by its bifurcation at the upper edge of the thyroid cartilage, and at their origin the external carotid is more superficial and internal than the other. External Carotid.—The external carotid artery ascends almost perpendicu- larly from its origin to the deep sulcus behind the angle of the lower jaw, occupied by the parotid gland, underneath or through which it passes up to a point between the neck of the lower jaw and the meatus auditorius, where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries (Eig. 474). Relations.—In front, the external carotid is crossed by the posterior belly of the digastric, stylo-hyoid, and platysma myoid muscles; by the hypo- glossal nerve, near its origin; higher up it is situated in the substance of the parotid gland, and is crossed by the facial nerve. Behind, it is separated from the internal carotid by the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and a portion of the parotid gland. Operation.—Place the patient in the position directed for ligating the common carotid. Make an incision from a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, parallel to and three-eighths of an inch in front of the latter, to a point half an inch below the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The skin, superficial fascia,