701 DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. i ence are requisite than in recent dislocations, and, on the other, it must be remembered that there is danger, from the adhesion of the head of the bone in its new location, of rupturing important vessels or other organs in using great force. My own practice, in most difficult cases of ancient dislocation, is to make a subcutaneous, antiseptic division of the more or less resisting ligamentous tissues, using the instruments and plan of operation commonly employed in tenotomy. Of course, the tenotome should never be employed until after a thorough trial of the more common methods. This mode of operative interference has not been indisputably proved to be the best for obtaining reduction in dislocations of any of the larger joints, since the literature of surgery does not furnish actual statistics sufficient for the purpose. I believe it to be justifiable, however, in the case of almost every joint in the body, as a common-sense deduction from what is known of the pathology of dislocations. Should there be any difference, it would be in the case of the larger joints, such as the hip, knee, and ankle, where the lighting up of suppurative synovitis might lead to fatal results. Without antiseptics, such an operation upon any of the larger joints should not for a moment be thought of. Dislocations of the Patella. Outwakd Dislocation of the Patella.—Causes.—This luxation is occa- sioned either by external force, or by muscular action exerted in peculiar con- ditions. The patella may also be displaced laterally, as a sequence of caries of the condyles of the femur, when the disease destroys the ridge which retains the patella on one or the other side. Symptoms.—If the dislocation be complete, the patella will be found lying on the outer slope of the condyle, with its inner border forwards; but if in- complete, the form of the articular surfaces is such that the patella will be tilted somewhat edgewise, with its outer border projecting forward. The knee is slightly bent, and immovable, and the patella may be felt in its new position. The pain is generally pretty severe. After reduction, the disloca- tion is liable to be reproduced from slight causes. Treatment.—In order to effect reduction, it is best first to relax the quadri- ceps extensor by flexing the thigh on the body, and extending the leg on the thigh. When this is done, the bone can usually be replaced by lateral pressure of the thumbs. If reduction prove difficult, it will be necessary to anaesthetize the patient, and then to dislodge the patella by vigorous flexion and extension of the knee, and afterwards proceed again as before. Inward Dislocation of the Patella.—Causes.—This accident generally results from external force applied directly to the outer margin of the patella. Symptoms and Treatment.—These are the same as in the outward disloca- tion, except that the direction of the displacement, and that of the pressure required for reduction, are reversed. Dislocation of the Patella on its Axis.—In a few rare cases, the patella is completely overturned, presenting its posterior surface forward. In other instances it stops half-way, one margin being sunk in the outer condyloid fossa, while the other stands sharply forward, presenting a prominence be- neath the skin which cannot be mistaken. In a case of complete overturning, the sharp margin of the articular surface, presenting outward, can be felt and