ANEURISM. 412 for the belief in the value of iodine; another is the fact that, under certain circumstances, this drug undoubtedly relieves a species of pain which accom- panies the growth of certain aneurisms. That wearing and peculiarly distress- ing pain which is produced by pressure of the tumor on bones and periosteum, is undoubtedly mitigated—may even for a time be entirely subdued—by taking from forty to ninety grains, in the twenty-four hours, of iodide of potassium. Hence a relief of symptoms which by no means implies improve- ment of condition. The value of iodine given internally is most marked in periostitis, chronic thickenings, and slow inflammatory enlargements, whether strumous, syph- ilitic, or rheumatic; in fact, in such conditions as culminate in fibrous or fibrillating deposits. But all cures of aneurism, save those by suppuration and sloughing, are based upon coagulation—upon the fibrillating qualities of the blood—which is antagonized by iodine. I cannot but think that the very rapid relapse and quick progress of the disease which overtakes many aneu- rismal patients, who at first seemed to derive benefit from the rest and the iodine, is often due to a non-coagulating condition of the blood, produced by large doses of this drug. II. Surgical Treatment op Aneurism. Medical treatment is, in certain cases, the only available resource, as in a large proportion of thoracic, and in a few other aneurisms; but for some internal, and for nearly all external aneurisms, treatment applied directly to the implicated vessel—surgical treatment, as it is called-—can be employed. The surgical methods employed in cases of aneurism, may be divided into such as aim at cure: (1) By destruction of the sac—they are imitations of the cure by gangrene or suppuration ; (2) By applying coagulants directly to the blood, following the method of cure by passive clotting; (3) By mitiga- ting or suppressing the circulation in the vessel and tumor, in order to induce coagulation generally, and preferably by active clot. As each of these is modelled upon some natural process, so each is liable to the same sources of failure as the spontaneous method of cure which it imitates. The first may cause death by exhaustion and blood-poisoning; the second exposes to the risk of recurrence, or inflammation with its sequelae ; but the third, if successfully completed, affords an entire and permanent cure. The methods employed are as follows: (1) The use of cauteries and the method of Antyllus -,1 (2) Injections of coagulating fluids, the introduction of solid bodies into the sac, the application of heat, galvano-puneture; (3) Manipu- lation, flexion, various forms of compression, different modes of arterial deli- gation. Concerning many of these methods, only sufiicient need be said to indicate that they have been used—in order to obviate the possibility of any surgeon, after consulting this work, adopting, under the impression that they are new, plans which have been tried and abandoned as useless or lethal. With this object in view, I shall mention briefly a number of methods, rather as points of science than as examples to be followed, save in exceptional circumstances. Cauteries.—Of the use of cauteries nothing need be said further than that the method has been employed by Chassaignac and Neumann for small aneu- risms, one of the palm, the other of the anterior palatine artery. The remedy, successful in both instances, can only be employed when the sac is minute. 1 The “method of Antyllus” will be referred to in connection with the treatment by ligation.