INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 226 the Army Medical Museum, and is represented in the accompanying wood-cut, Fig. 431.1 Ill the following example, the patient sur- vived still longer:— A soldier was wounded with arrows, and scalped by Indians, six miles from Fort Philip Kearney, D. T., September 26, 1866. The steel point of one arrow entered at the junction of the first (right) rib and the sternum, and penetrated downward and inward three inches, cutting the upper margin of the right lung, and making a wound in the descending cava one-eighth of an inch long, just without the pericardial sac. Although scalped, and otherwise wounded, the unfortunate man survived until 10 A. M. on the 28th, over forty hours after the casualty. Large masses of coagula were found in the thoracic cavity.2 Wounds of the ascending vena cava, as a rule, also prove quickly fatal:— A soldier, during the late civil war, was wounded February 24, 1862, and lived only a few minutes. The ball entered the right side of his thorax, fracturing the ninth rib near its angle, and wounding the lower border of the right lung. It then passed through the diaphragm, tearing open the liver, the ascending cava, the stomach, etc. etc. The heart was found empty, while the cavities of the abdomen and thorax were entirely filled by the hemorrhage.3 The ascending cava sometimes sustains a rupture from the operation of a comparatively trivial cause: Dr. Minor presented an illustrative specimen to the Hew York Pathological Society, November 28,1855. It was taken from a woman in the fifth month of pregnancy, who, while dancing at a ball, sud- denly fell to the floor and died.4 There are on record a few examples in which the abdominal bloodvessels were ruptured. Legouest’s case I have already presented. Velpeau5 refers to three cases of rupture of the ascending cava. Bourguignon6 cites another such case. A specimen of the vena cava ruptured by a blow is preserved in Guy’s Hospital Museum. Professor Gross mentions a fatal case of laceration of the splenic vein recorded by Dr. Miling.7 Wounds of the Vena Azygos.—Ilennen8 reports the case of a soldier injured by a twenty-four pound shot, which brushed along the right pectoral muscles without raising the skin or fracturing any bone, who died thirty-six hours afterward with all the symptoms of suffocation. Necroscopy—The vena azygos was found ruptured; also, the intercostal artery accompanying the fourth right rib; and two pounds of blood were found extravasated in the thoracic cavity. Blandin9 observed the case of a young man who sur- vived a short time a pistol-shot wound of the vena azygos, near its terminal curve. Breschet10 records the autopsy of a man, aged 25, who survived for 1 Specimen 5567, Sect. I., A. M. M. ; Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., 1871, p. 34. 2 Circular No. 3, S. G. O., p. 146. 3 Medical and Surgical History, etc., Second Surgical Vol., pp. 138, 139. 4 Transactions of New York Pathological Society, vol. i. p. 99. 6 Diet, de Med., etc., t. i. 6 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., t. xiii. p. 507. 7 System of Surgery, 5tli ed., vol. ii. p. 687. 8 Military Surgery, p. 95, Am. ed. 9 Anatomie Topographique, p. 287. 10 Repertoire Gen. d’Anat., etc., t. iv. p. 196. Fig. 431. Shot-wound dividing the descending cava and perforating the left lung Heart and great vessels also represented.