150 INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. Pelletan reports the case of Nicolas Pochard, a young soldier, who, from practising the manual of arms with the zeal of a young soldier, acquired an aneurism of the left brachial artery, which was caused by blows or contusions received from the lock of his gun, that were very often repeated until the tunics of the artery gave way.1 Rupture of the Axillary Artery.—Many examples of this lesion, without any corresponding breach of the integuments, have been placed on record. This accident is very serious, for more than two-thirds of the reported cases have proved fatal. Moreover, it has been produced in many different ways, the most important of which I shall briefly refer to or describe. Pelletan relates the case of Gabriel Longpre, a journeyman mason, aged about 40, whose axillary artery gave way so that an aneurism formed, in consequence of the violent stretchings to which he subjected it in suspending himself, with all the weight of his body, by the hands, from the pegs of his scaffoldings, from time to time, in order to alleviate the pains of rheumatism.2 This case proved fatal. Mott reports the case of Wm. Haines, aged 28, whom he found, on examination, to have an aneurism of the right axillary artery, as large as a goose’s egg, with the follow- ing history : “ About seven weeks before, he received a violent strain while carrying a canoe on hand-bars across the arms, which was followed by an extensive discoloration of the skin of the right arm, extending to the chest, and attended with considerable pain. Three weeks subsequent to the accident he observed a small swelling, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, under the right arm, which had rapidly increased.” Mott tied the subclavian artery above the clavicle. The man made an excellent recovery.3 In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Series XXV. 1695, there is an axillary aneurism which was caused by rupture of the axillary artery, from the falling of a man on ice with his arm extended.4 Inspector-General Smart, R. N., has called attention to the fact that the axillary artery may be so much injured by the sudden and violent wrench of the shoulder which gunners sustain when explosions occur while in the act of loading cannon, that gan- grene of the limb ensues from the occlusion of that vessel. He has also reported three cases in point.5 They all occurred from explosions while in the act of ramming home, by which the rammer was expelled, and the arm employed in loading was violently extended. In such cases the artery is injured by the forcible extension of the arm, without puncture or laceration of the integuments. The injury sustained by the artery often consists of rupturing its inner and middle coats, which then recurve and close the lumen of the artery, where- upon gangrene soon results. Dr. Smart points out that when gangrene appears in such cases, amputation near the shoulder, performed without delay, is the only expedient that can save the patient. Similar cases of injury of the axillary artery from strains and blows, with- out any external wound, have been mentioned by Aston Key, Le Gros Clark, Liston, Syme, and Gibbs. Such cases with many interesting examples of various accidents belonging to the same category have been collected and arranged in two tables, by Eug. Boeckel, in the “Nouveau Dictionnaire de Med- ecine et de Chirurgie Pratiques,” in the Article Axillaires (vaisseaux), t. iv. pp. 365-9, and 370-74. Paris, 1866. In the following example, the axillary artery was ruptured by passive movements made for the relief of false anchylosis :— A woman, aged 40-45, of rather feeble health, had her left shoulder-joint completely stiffened by rheumatic inflammation. On January 10, 1858, about half an hour 1 Clinique Chirurgicale, t. ii. pp. 14, 15. 2 Op. cit., t. ii. pp. 49, 50. 3 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, vol. vii. 1830, pp. 309-11. * St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Reports, vol. ii. p. 107. 5 British Medical Journal, September 23, 1871, pp. 342, 343.