INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 718 great the swelling, all the bony landmarks will be found in correct, relative position, which fact will exclude the suspicion both of dislocation and of im- pacted fracture, while the distinction from non-impacted fracture rests upon the absence of crepitus and of abnormal bony mobility. Incomplete fractures may exist without detection, until revealed by the formation of provisional callus. Symptoms and History.—Immediately after the occurrence of a sprain, there is severe pain, often accompanied with something like faintness and nausea. The swelling generally commences almost instantly, from the effu- sion of blood into the tissues, and continues afterwards from the advent of inflammation of the parts affected. If the synovial membrane has suffered, there is synovitis, and a consequent rapid filling up of the sac of the articu- lation with synovial fluid, often mixed with blood. In severe cases the patient is totally disabled, but in mild cases he often continues to use the joint moderately during convalescence. Acute suppuration rarely follows, un- less the patient is of a very aplastic or suppurative diathesis; but the chronic synovitis which follows in some of the cases, frequently lays the foundation of caries and suppuration at a later period, if the synovitis be not properly treated. Where synovitis does not supervene, caries and suppuration cannot easily occur. 'If the patient be of a strongly rheumatic constitution, the local irrita- tion often seems to derive a special obstinacy and persistence frOm the presence of the rheumatic diathesis. The inflammatory symptoms in persons of healthy constitution, usually abate in a few days, and in a few weeks disappear; but there is a mechanical trouble which often remains longer, and is even aggravated by the very im- mobility enforced as a curative measure. The various bands and layers of ligament around a joint, have, normally, certain free, sliding movements upon each other, and transmit small nerves and vessels along their inter- spaces. When the ligamentous tissue is torn by the sprain, the same force rends the nerve-twigs, and the sensitive fibres thus injured are liable to be- come entangled in the cicatricial tissue formed during the healing, so that movements of the part are hampered and painful. These are the cases which, as already mentioned, furnish triumphant successes to the “natural bone- setters ; ” and it is easy to see that the longer the surgeon enforces stillness under these circumstances, the worse his patient’s condition may become. Treatment of Sprains.—The most contradictory precepts have been given respecting the management of sprains, hut the following plan accords with the general sense of the profession :•— (1) A severe sprain demands rest in the horizontal position for a few days. (2) A steady and judicious use of cold will prevent the supervention of severe inflammation, and in a few days all tendency to its occurrence will have passed away, when the cold can be slowly withdrawn. Many favor hot instead of cold applications, and others decide between them according to the sense of comfort or discomfort felt by the patient. Warm-water appli- cations, indeed, do well for some patients; but cold, properly regulated, will irresistibly quench the inflammation in all ordinary cases; and there are few or no patients who will long find it disagreeable, if it be regulated with proper tact and care. Whichever plan of treatment is adopted, should be steadily maintained. (3) The liquid effusions poured out from the torn fibres into the tissues, during the first forty-eight hours, are irritating, like similar effusions after other mechanical injuries, and there is great advantage in getting rid of them. Unfortunately, the drainage tube cannot be employed here, but by gentle