427 SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlii. p. 205. 1 Mr. Gould recommends this in all oases. mend that, unless urgency of symptoms forbid, an interval of from five to eight days should be allowed, during which time such treatment as tends to produce coagulability of the blood may be employed,1 such as, for instance, the dry diet and low diet system (p. 410). A consideration not to he disregarded is the state of the heart and its valves, and of the aorta immediately adjoining. It has been suggested, rather than proved, that application of the Esmarch bandage, whether for aneurism or for other cause, might, by over-filling the rest of the circulation, prove dangerous to one suffering from valvular incompetence, or from weakened and dilated aorta. Mr. Gould has suggested that these perils might be obviated by placing a round elastic cord around the other limb, so as to imprison its blood within its vessels. It is difficult, however, to perceive how such an ex- pedient could have the desired effect, since the limb must contain the same amount of blood, whether it be stagnated or no, and the rest of the system, therefore, is not relieved by any withdrawal of circulating fluid, while the vascular system loses the resiliency of the limb vessels—to a certain extent a safeguard against the accident dreaded. It is evident that the mode in which the Esmarch bandage acts is by mere stagnation. The blood in the aneurism, and in the vessel immediately lead- ing to it, is kept at entire rest; and if it be of such a quality as to easily coagu- late, it will do so to a certain extent. The clot thus formed in an hour, or, perhaps, in two, is exceedingly soft, and its cohesion is almost nil. Hence pressure must prevent any flow of blood into the artery, and great quietude must obviate any tendency to detachment. It has not unfrequently happened that, when all these precautions have been observed, and when the aneurismal tumor, not pulsating, has appeared completely solid, the condition in the next twenty-four hours has been quite reversed; pulsation has recurred, no sign of any remaining clot has been found, and the aneurism has appeared larger, nearer the surface, and more thinly walled than before. In certain cases, death has resulted; in a few, gangrene. Compression by Flexion.—The Echo Medical Suisse reports in its number for September, 1858, an interesting case of popliteal aneurism, which, a year previously, had been under the care of M. Maunoir, of Geneva. That surgeon observed, during his examination of the tumor, that when the limb was bent, pulsation ceased. Acting on the lines thus indicated, he did not even order the man to bed, but applied a sling in the daytime, and a bandage at night, in such wise as to keep the limb constantly flexed. In a few days the pulsation had greatly decreased; in about eighteen the tumor was solid. A year after- wards, when the above paper was published, only a small, very hard lump remained in the ham. By one of those singular coincidences which rarely occur, it was in that month, September, 1858, that Mr. Hart observed in a case of popliteal aneu- rism a like diminution of pulsation on flexion of the limb. ITe treated the case on this hint by keeping the man’s limb bent,2 and in about five days the aneurism was solidified. This result led to frequent imitations of the prac- tice, and occasionally with very good effect. It is more especially adapted to aneurisms about the bend of the elbow or in the popliteal space; in other localities it has not been equally successful. The method has also very fre- quently failed, nor is it entirely devoid of danger. The sort of aneurism in which it is most likely to be valuable, is a small, sacculated tumor whose strong tendency to spontaneous cure is marked by a thick, hard sac, situated either at or just below the ginglymus in the middle of the limb. One or two