SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. 441 The temporary ligature, producing division of the inner tunics, followed by the formation of inflammatory adhesions, certainly possesses the power of occluding the arteries of animals, apparently in every experiment, even though the current is seen to persist immediately after the operation. The theory, as advanced by Dr. Jones, and afterwards supported by Porta,1 Bruns,2 and others, would be, if the arteries of man and of animals acted in like manner, indisputable, but this is far from being the case, as Hunter and Home found out ;3 and we must he cautious in drawing conclusions from these undoubtedly valuable experiments. The temporary ligature has, in a certain number of cases, succeeded, but it has more often failed, either by again permitting free flow of blood, by permitting the formation of an aneurism at the site of operation, or by giving rise to secondary hemorrhage.4 The failures are in too large a proportion, the method is unreliable. The instrument of Fleet Speir is the best; the difference between his inner vascular wound and that left by a cord or wire, is similar to the difference between the wounds of arte- ries torn or cut asunder. Even the carotid has by this device been success- fully occluded,5 6 yet the plan cannot be considered entirely secure; and it would certainly appear that one or other of the modes of ligation about to be described must fulfil all the conditions of eliminating the dangers of foreign bodies—allowing healing by the first intention and, at the same time, affording greater security against reopening of the arterial channel by leaving, at all events for a considerable time, a circular constriction upon the vessel. Soluble Ligatures.—It has been said that Sir Astley Cooper experimented with catgut ligatures with the hope that they might become absorbed or incorporated in the tissues: this hope was not fulfilled, and the matter was over-hastily abandoned; but many years after, Porta® made a great number of experiments with various substances—catgut, silk, hemp, horsehair, etc. In every case he cut the ligatures short and sewed up the wound, killing the animals afterwards at various periods, from four days to forty months. Of 290 ligatures, 64 were entirely absorbed in this order:— 120 silk 80 catgut . 50 flax 40 horsehair 19 absorbed 33 10 “ 2 “ 15.8 per cent. 41.25 “ 20. 5. “ The table shows the great capability which dried fibrous animal structures possess of becoming absorbed by or incorporated in the tissues. Professor Lister, in the pursuit of his aim, the avoidance of putrescent action in wounds, found that by treating catgut after a similar manner to that in which he treated wounded surfaces, viz., by the use of carbolic acid, he could, with the more certainty, cause it to be absorbed. He, therefore, intro- duced the carbolized catgut ligature.7 The material which, on the strength of an experiment on a calf, he first recommended, was thus prepared by him : Take 1 part of pure crystallized carbolic acid, with only just enough water to keep it fluid. Mix this thoroughly by shaking it with 5 parts of olive oil. When the admixture is complete, steep in it the strands of catgut. This 1 Delle alterazzione patologiche delle arterie per la ligatura e la torsione. Milano, 1845. 2 Loc. cit. ■ 3 These distinguished men dissected off all the tunics of arteries in dogs, until the merest film, through which the blood could be seen flowing, was left. In three and six weeks, respectively, repair was complete, without either dilatation or contraction of the vessel. (Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Medical and Chirurgical Knowledge, 1793.) 4 There are many such cases scattered in medical journals. Sands (Philadelphia Medical Times, Nov. 1874), gives four of this last description. 5 Bell’s case (Medical Record, Aug. 1, 1871), and Fleet Speir’s own case of double distal ligature. 6 Op. cit. 7 Notes on the Ligature of Arteries on the Antiseptic System, 1869.