478 GLUTEAL AND SCIATIC ANEURISMS. aneurism) the aorta must be compressed and the variations in size of the tumor watched (see p. 396). If the case he still ambiguous, a fine exploratory trocar should be employed. To distinguish between gluteal aneurism and malignant tumor of bone, is ex- tremely difficult. They both may or may not pulsate; but a growth from bone alters the shape of the part by raising ridge-wise around its stalk the outer •crust or-table, and has generally within it osseous spiculse. These character- istics have been already sufficiently pointed out (p. 397). I need only add, that examination through the rectum is an immense aid in diagnosis, and that if by the mere introduction of one finger no distinguishing marks can be dis- covered, it may be necessary, for reasons which will be given presently, to in- sert the whole hand. Sciatic hernia is an extremely rare condition. If it be reducible while the aorta is unobstructed, there can be no difficulty in diagnosis; if irreducible, it -will probably be, in part at least, flatulent, and on percussion will give the characteristic note. Impulse on coughing, though slight, is also to be •detected, and the peculiar gurgle on pressure will almost always be felt. Moreover, though it may, as a rarity, be irreducible at the time of examina- tion, rest in bed for a day or two will probably diminish its size, even if it do not entirely go back. I am not aware that in the records of surgery any case •of incarcerated or strangulated sciatic or gluteal hernia has occurred. The symptoms, history, and circumstances of gluteal aneurism are as fol- lows. A large proportion of these cases are due to some form of injury, thus:— Spontaneous . . . . . .12 Penetrating wound 16 Falls and blows1 . . . . .10 Caries (sacro-iliac)2 .... 2 A swelling, accompanied by pain and lameness, which comes on a few days after an injury, may easily be mistaken for an abscess; and proportionally to its frequency, more mistakes have been made in cases of this particular aneu- rism than of any other. In most of these, however, there is at first some sound, at one or another part of the tumor, and generally over the sciatic notch more distinctly than elsewhere. The surgeon should not be content with a single auscultation if there be no murmur, but should search, on several successive days and in different positions of the limb, both for sound and pulsation. The rock on which diagnosis is most easily wrecked, is when there exists an aneurism with neither pulsation nor bruit. The surgeon must endeavor to empty the tumor when the aorta is compressed. Even in doing this some cautions must be given, for an abscess, by gravitation, may be partially emptied by pressure from the outer parts into the interior of the pelvis; but this will be as easy when the aorta is free as when it is compressed. This in itself is diagnostic; for a tumor which can thus be rendered flaccid and small under. compression of the aorta, but not otherwise, is clearly not an abscess. Examination by the rectum should in all cases be made. Generally the intro- duction of the finger merety is insufficient, but with the three outer fingers— or, when necessary, with the whole hand—the sciatic notch may be felt, as also the iliacs and a great part of the front of the sacrum. How, in this way one may detect the roughened surface of caries, or, perhaps, an aneurismal pro- longation into the pelvis, or one may feel the vessels to be normal; or, on the 1 I have already called attention to the doubtful meaning of the word traumatic. It would certainly be greatly to the advantage of surgery if we had one word to indicate wound, and another to mean injury without wound. 2 I think that in one of these cases the caries was due to and not produced by the aneurism ; the other is, perhaps, as given in the text.