DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 681 tissue, constituting a great thickening of the capsule at that point. This powerful band terminates very abruptly in front, where its border stands out almost as if it were a separate ligament. The posterior border is much less distinct, unless it he defined by cutting into its substance with a scalpel for purposes of demonstration. Instead of terminating by an abrupt line, it loses itself imperceptibly in the thick, strong substance of the superior and posterior portion of the capsular ligament. The strong band of fibres thus defined, passes downward in front of the neck and head of the femur, toward the trochanter major, near to which it shows a tendency to divide into two branches—an internal and an external termination. The former is inserted into the anterior and superior parts of the trochanter; the latter, passing more directly downward, is inserted into the bone nearer the lesser trochanter. The space between these branches is usually not absolutely void, but filled by a thinner part of the band. ' Still, when the whole ligament is laid bare, and when its borders have been defined with the knife, it may be supposed to bear a likeness to an inverted letter Y, and, accordingly, from this vague resemblance, has been called by Professor Bigelow the “ Y ” ligament; a name which, on account of its common acceptation, it is convenient to retain. This band has also been described by other anatomists and surgeons. It has been termed the “ ilio-femoral ligament,” and sometimes “Bertin’s ligament.” It is a portion of the capsular wall, of great thickness, often a quarter of an inch or more. Fig. 565. Fig. 566. The Y ligament. (Bigelow.) Showing relations of the obturator internus muscle to the hip-joint. (Bigelow.) It is usual to describe four regular dislocations of the hip-joint, two of which are backward and two forward. In all of these the Y ligament remains untorn, whatever laceration may be produced in the rest of the capsule. By its tension this ligament determines the characteristic position of the various