INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 554 been applied, but more frequently it takes place elsewhere—at points too variable, according to Trombetta, for any rule to be framed on the subject; according to the experiments of Tillaux, however, the sciatic nerve almost constantly gives way at the point of its emergence from the pelvis. As regards the resisting power of each nerve, reference may be made to what will be said in connection with the operation of elongation. Symptoms.—The symptoms which characterize extension of nerves are all reproduced by the phenomena which are observed to follow elongation. Avulsion manifests itself by a complete loss of sensation and motion, with, according to Duchenne de Boulogne, disappearance of electro-contractility. In the case of Flaubert, already cited, there was total paralysis of the upper extremity, and of the lower extremity of the same side. Incomplete lacerations may cause the phenomena of neuritis ; the secondary symptoms, however, do not differ from those observed as the result of complete sections of the nerves, which will be considered hereafter. Sudden death, according to Tripier, is to be reckoned among the possible consequences of extension and tearing of nerves. This author, in fact, ex- plains the cases of sudden death occurring during the reduction of shoulder luxations, under chloroform, by the existence of extensive lesions of the nerve-roots and of the spinal cord, resulting from pulling on the nerve trunks. Diagnosis.—The functional disturbances which are observed to follow injuries to nerves point distinctly to the presence of a nerve lesion. But it is often difficult to recognize at once whether the injury is a contusion, an extension, or a rupture of the nerve. Apart from the etiological considera- tions which may render the diagnosis very easy, rupture may be excluded if motion or sensation persist more or less completely ; without a history of the case, nerve-extension cannot possibly be distinguished from contusion, except in cases of isolated paralysis of motion or sensation, in which cases it would be manifest that the lesion was not a contusion; finally, under the same circumstances, these lesions are liable to be confounded with paralysis due to a central cause. (See remarks on compression and contusion of nerves.) Prognosis.—These nerve lesions do not appear of themselves, or in their consequences, to be more grave than other traumatisms of nerves. Regenera- tion seems, indeed, possible after avulsion; at least we are justified in think- ing so on account of the cures obtained by Duchenne de Boulogne. (Follin.) A guarded prognosis should be given in cases of incomplete laceration, for fear that a neuritis might follow. Finally, the possibility of a sudden death should be remembered by the surgeon in his attempts at the reduction of old luxations of the shoulder. Treatment.—The treatment does not differ from that of all nerve wounds; it consists in fixation of the part in a favorable position, the use of resol- vents, of anodynes, and finally of electricity, to guard against muscular atrophy. The secondary lesions do not present any special indications for treatment, and the reader is therefore referred to what will be said upon the subject in connection with wounds of nerves. III. "Wounds of Herves. Classification.—"Wounds of nerves maybe simple, or they may be complicated, either by a certain amount of contusion and crushing of the nerve-termina-