HAEMOPHILIA, OR THE HEMORRHAGIC DIATHESIS. 259 Symptoms.—The phenomena of haemophilia are essentially of a hemorrhagic character. The external hemorrhages that are traumatic always occur at the place of injury, which is most frequently situated in the skin and superficial parts. They are usually due to trifling accidents. The external hemorrhages that are spontaneous, or non-traumatic, occur in a majority of instances from the mucous membrane of the nose and mouth, more especially the former, for epistaxis is by far the most frequent form. In ■808 carefully described cases, hemorrhage occurred from the nose 152 times, from the gums 38 times, from the intestines 35 times, from the lungs 17 times, with the urine 16 times, from the stomach 14 times, from the female geni- talia 10 times, from the tongue 6 times, from the external meatus auditorius 5 times, from the tips of the fingers 4 times, from the scalp 4 times, from the carunculte lachrymales 3 times, from ulcers of the skin 2 times, from the upper eyelids 1 time, and from the umbilicus long after the healing 1 time. (Immermann.) In very rare instances, among bleeders, hemorrhage occurs into the abdominal and other serous cavities. The external bleedings, whether traumatic or spontaneous, are almost always capillary, that is, parenchymatous in character. All the descriptions agree that the hemorrhage takes place, as a rule, not from large vessels, but from numerous vessels of the smallest size (capillaries), and from a great number of minute openings, as if from the pores of a compact sponge satu- rated with a liquid. Nevertheless, the blood is poured out under a compara- tively very strong pressure. The danger, however, results not so much from the profuseness of the hemorrhage as from its persistency; in fact, it is this obstinate persistence of every hemorrhage, whatever its origin, which is the most important as well as the pathognomonic peculiarity of the bleeder diathesis. Not unfrequently, an originally trifling hemorrhage which there was every reason to expect would soon cease spontaneously, or yield to treat- ment, persists in bleeders, in spite of all efforts to restrain it, for hours and days and weeks, until extreme anaemia or death is produced. But the tole- rance with which bleeders bear the great losses of blood, and the rapidity with which restoration of the lost blood is usually effected, are still more remarkable. Interstitial hemorrhages, particularly those of an undoubtedly traumatic origin, often constitute the earliest visible manifestations of haemophilia ; they frequently occur during the first few days of life, or even during birth, from pressure or other mechanical injury of the bod}7 of the child during parturition. In after-life, interstitial bleedings occur not only as the direct results of injuries, but are also quite often observed in connection with the external hemorrhages, whether spontaneous or traumatic. In such cases, the surface of the body very frequently becomes covered more or less universally with numerous hemorrhagic efflorescences, which indicate the occurrence of multiple interstitial hemorrhages. The usual anatomical seats of the interstitial bleedings of haemophilia are the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue. The regions most often involved are the back, the fundament, the neighbor- hood of the trochanters, and the back of the neck; in brief, those .parts of the body which are most subjected to pressure from posture. The spontaneous in- terstitial extravasations, however, are most frequently observed in the hairy scalp, the genitalia, particularly the scrotum, and the extremities; more rarely on the trunk and face. The subtegumentary extravasations sometimes are very copious, and constitute veritable hfematomata. These blood-tumors have been noticed most frequently in the region of the false ribs, on the back ; and especially on the inner surface of the thigh, the popliteal region, etc., in the lower extremities. These blood-tumors have varied considerably in size in the