495 ORBITAL ANEURISM. time, but this soon recurred in the right eye, while the left was cured. Nor have we the means of diagnosing certain venous conditions of the caver- nous sinus from aneurism of that part, nor from similar states in the orhit. Indeed, it is hardly to be perceived whence such means should come; if ob- structed veins in that sinus produce pulsation, tumor, exophthalmos, etc., those symptoms will arise, whether the occlusion be produced by aneurism, by rupture of the artery, or by thrombosis of the vein. Hence, operative mea- sures should not too readily be undertaken, since some patients—those of Erichsen1 and Collard, of Berne,2 for instance—recovered ; the former nearly, the latter entirely, after merely expectant measures and regulation of diet. Treatment of Pulsating Orbital Tumors.—The treatment must be guided by the conclusions formed from the symptoms just detailed. I would only point out that compression of the carotid may, in every form of the disease, annul pulsation, even though no aneurism be present; this symptom accompanies the venous turgesence due to thrombosis, the impulse being communicated by the throb of the artery. Expectant and medical treatment is that which is best adapted to cases diag- nosed as thrombosis or other affection of the veins. Ice, digitalis, sparse diet, absence of stimulus; in certain cases, iodide and bromide of potassium, with ammonia; purgatives, and if inflammatory mischief be present, means adopted to relieve that condition. Graduated compression upon the globe and orbit may be useful in the same class of cases. If aneurism be present, it is injurious. Injection of ergot might be employed in cases of any of the diseases mentioned, if its situation within the orbit could be ascertained. Coagulating injections likewise can only be of use if the orbit itself be the seat of disease. Galvano-puncture may share the same remark, with this addition, that a strong or prolonged electric current can hardly be conducted through any portion of the head or face without danger. For all true forms of orbital aneurism, compression and ligature of the com- mon carotid artery are the remedies par excellence ; but, as in other parts of the body, deligation of the vessel leading to an aneurism by anastomosis, is rarely curative. For such cases, when recognized, vessels immediately lead- ing to the tumor, such as the facial and the temporal, have been tied, but with only slight and temporary benefit,3 while deligation of the common carotid, after an interval, cured them easily and quickly. The following table shows the results of the different modes of treatment employed Form of treatment. No. of cases. Cured. Benefited. Loss of vision. Unre- lieved. Died. Subjected to other treatment. Expectant and medical . 25 5 1 1 ii 7 Direct compression . . 10 3 7 Galvano-puncture . . . 2 2 Injection of ergot . . . 2 2 Coagulating injection . . 4 2 i 1 Compression of carotid . 16 l4 i l 13 Ligature of carotid . . . 44 16 6 7 5 6* 4® Ligature of vessel in orbit 1 1 1 Op. cit. a Gazette Medicate, 1866, p. 321. 9 Warren, loc. cit., first case. 4 Rivington gives two idiopathic cases thus treated, as cured, hut in one of these vision was lost; in the other noises in the head continued. 6 The cause of death is not stated in one ; it was secondary hemorrhage in two ; pyaemia in two ; cerebral disturbance in one. 6 Three of these were cured : 1 by injection of the lactate of iron, 2 by deligation of the other carotid ; 1 died after galvano-puncture.