35 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. eating caverns a serous fluid is contained. This form of congenital cavernous formation occurs most frequently amongst females, has been usually observed in immature children, and is generally complicated with other malformations. The tumor always (Steinwirker) has its principal seat at the lower portion of the occiput and upper part of the neck, is spheroidal, with a smooth surface, and is divided in the median line of the body by a furrow, into symmetrical halves.” It is “ usually composed of two symmetrical cysts, divided into smaller compartments. The cysts are lined with characteristic lymphatic endothelium, and contain serum. Koster has proved the direct transition of the cysts into ampullary canals and spaces, and has recognized the connection of the latter with the sinuses of lymph glands. ” These cystic lymphangeiomata are not as often the seat of lymphorrhagia as the more common forms. Lymphangeio- mata have been frequently observed in the groin. The tumor is about as large as the fist, soft to the touch, and when grasped feels like a bag of worms; and it may also be mentioned that this region is liable to lymph-varix and lymphorrhoea. Elephantiasis Arabum. This disease1 is essentially lymphatic in its character. Its relation to re- peated attacks of erythema is noticeable, and the hyperplasia of the integu- ments, following a swelling of the lymph glands, ultimately becomes developed into the condition thus named. Virchow classes elephantiasis amongst the fibromata,and describes it as a diffuse new growth, chiefly in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, but sometimes developed in the papillary bodies. Hew light has recently been thrown on its etiology by the discoveries of Manson, Lewis, and Bancroft, and their investigations show that it is in all probability caused by a haematozoon, thefilaria sanguinis hominis. By its presence in the lympha- tics, exudation, oedema, and ultimately organization of the exuded material take place. Sir Joseph Fayrer2 gives the following as a general definition of the malady : “ Elephantiasis (Arabum) is a non-contagious disease, endemic in certain localities, generally intertropical, and near the seacoast, characterized by recurrence of febrile paroxysms attended by great suffering, inflammation, and progressive hypertrophy of the integuments and areolar tissue, chiefly of the extremities and genital organs, and occasionally by swelling of the lym- phatic glands, enlargement and dilatation of the lymphatics, in some cases by the coexistence of chyluria, and the presence in the blood of certain hsematozoa; the hypertrophy of the integuments resulting in enormous enlargements of the extremities, scrotum, or labia, accompanied by an albuminous deposit in the cells of the areolar tissue, and by degeneration of the muscular and osseous tissues.” This disease must not be confounded with Elephantiasis Gbraecorum (true leprosy), although, according to Richards and others, they may coexist. The onset of elephantiasis is frequently violent, and attended with great suffering. There is high fever, intense pain in the lumbar region, groin, spermatic cords and testes, which become much congested and swollen, whilst acute hydroceles form. This is often attended with sympathetic vomiting, nausea, rapid and erythematous swelling of the external parts; and if the extremities be attacked, the swelling is often very tense and painful, accompanied by much effusion into the areolar tissue. The surface of the integu- ment is much inflamed, and sometimes discharges a serous ichor or chyle-like fluid, according to the extent to which the lymphatics are involved in the particular case. There is much constitutional disturbance, increase of temperature, and often depressing 1 For the statements in regard to elephantiasis, I am largely indebted to the works of those who have had abundant experience in a disease but rarely met with beyond the tropics. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1879.