INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 696 the same moment, press the head of the hone downward and outward toward the acetabulum. A modification of this method, sometimes successful, is as follows: Flex the thigh to a right angle with the body, and rotate the shaft of the bone strongly, either inward or outward, so as to wind up, as it were, the Y liga- ment upon the femur. With the hand of the surgeon, or of an assistant, pressing strongly upon the head of the bone, swing the- limb downward to its place. (2) The surgeon seats himself at the patient’s feet, places one foot in the perineum, making counter-extension against the pubis and ischium, and rotates the limb inward by turning the foot. With his hand, or with a towel around his shoulders, he make's strong traction, and while this is kept up, assistants are ordered to lift the patient’s body to a sitting posture. (3) The patient is laid face downward, his limbs hanging over the padded edge of a table as heretofore described in connection with the treatment of backward luxations, and the knee or foot of the surgeon is placed in the pop- liteal space to make extension, while the flexed leg of the patient serves as a crank, by which inward rotation is effected. The knee of the affected side is held somewhat away from the other, for the sake of abduction. (4) The patient is laid upon his back, and the surgeon, stooping over him or kneeling between his abducted thighs, places the dislocated limb so as to flex the knee over his shoulder, embracing the thigh near the pelvis. A large amount of traction can thus be obtained, and the hands can press the head towards the acetabulum. (5) Circumduction (as in backward dislocations) may be necessary to enlarge the small “ button-hole” opening in the capsule, before the head of the femur can be induced to enter its socket. When, after faithful trial, this seems indicated, sweep the flexed thigh inward, against the fibrous resistance it will encounter, as if intending to con- vert the pubic into a dorsal dislocation ; make strong enough traction, after the circumduction, to raise the patient’s hips from the floor, so as to make use of the weight of the trunk for extension. Increased power may be added by making counter-extension with the foot in the perineum, or on the pubis. Sometimes assistance can be rendered by drawing the thigh outward, by means of a band passed around the inner side of the limb. (6) The method of rotation, formerly called Reid’s method, varies from that described as fitted for the treatment of backward dislocations, by a re- versal of the movements. The limb is first flexed and abducted, then swept around upon the abdomen with the knee bent upon the thigh, the latter being held inverted. The direction of the sweep is toward the median line, or oppo- site to that employed in the backward form, as already described. When the knee has reached a point immediately above the acetabulum, it is brought directly down to full extension, the thigh being held everted as it comes. Occasionally this manipulation will convert a pubic into a dorsal disloca- tion, in which case the latter will have to be reduced by the usual methods. IV. Thyroid Dislocations.—The thyroid dislocation, the last of the four principal varieties, is that form of forward displacement in which the head of the bone takes a downward as well as an anterior direction from its socket. Causes.—Authorities assign as a cause of this injury, violence received while the limb is widely abducted. Although it is often assented that a blow upon the back, as by a falling object while the thighs are spread, is the usual cause, probably this dislocation occurs most often in falling (rom a height