609 TETANUS. As peripheral lesions there have been found a certain number of times a redness of the neurilemma of the nerves which correspond to the wound, and even a more or less extended ascending neuritis, perhaps most frequent when the tetanus begins at the wounded part; but more often the nerves are normal, like the muscles, which have also sometimes presented a beginning of interfascicular sclerosis or of waxy degeneration, without speaking of the effusions of blood and ruptures due to their excessive contractions. We must mention finally the cases where the cause of the tetanus has been evidently a foreign body remaining in the wound, or inclosed in the nerve itself, as in the classical case of Dupuytren’s where the knot of a whip-lash was found in the ulnar nerve. Lastly, inflammatory lesions have also been noted in the great sympathetic. To recapitulate: The most frequent lesions are those of the spinal cord, but even these may be absent. It must, then, be admitted that the anatomical condition of tetanus is a simple irritation of the nerve-elements, perhaps a slight congestion, which leaves no traces after death, but which may termi- nate, if it is prolonged, in a permanent hypersemia, a consequence and not a cause of the exaggerated activity of the nerve-cells (Vulpian); with still more reason should the deeper lesions that we have described be considered as secondary. Nature and Pathogenesis ; Pathological Physiology.—What is the na- ture of tetanus ? Without speaking of the theory of Stutz and Martin de Pedro, who located the disease in the muscular apparatus—a theory which would seem very difficult to maintain—all authors agree in considering it a pathological reflex condition, with exaggeration of the activity of the spinal cord. But when these vague terms are set aside, the agreement is soon broken, and there are almost as many explanations as authors in regard to the nature of primary peripheral irritation, and the path by which it is trans- mitted to the spinal cord. The opinions which have been put forth may be divided into two classes, one admitting an alteration of the blood which directly determines the exaggerated activity of the cord (humoral theory), while the other finds in the nerve-trunks the agent which receives and con- ducts the initial irritation (nervous theory). We shall successively set forth these two theories. (1) Humoral Theory.—The alteration of the blood which is considered the determining cause of tetarius, has been compared to that which is produced by poisoning with strychnia, or to that which produces rheumatism, the deter- mination of the lesions upon the spinal cord, rather than upon the articulations or other viscera, belonging therefore to an individual predisposition. Others, seeking for the origin of the alteration of the blood, have made it the result of a partial poisoning from the wound, or of an autochthonous septicaemia determined by the sudden suppression of the functions of the skin, and the passage into the blood of its excretory products; finally, Trevisanello supposes it to be produced by a specific element, making tetanus an infectious disease— an opinion against which may be advanced the'negative results of the inocu- lations hitherto practised. Independently of the mechanism of the alteration of the blood, there have been invoked in favor of the humoral theory, the elevation of temperature analogous to that of septic diseases, but not constant; the epidemic character which tetanus may assume, and which may result from the simultaneous action of the same causes; and, finally, the existence of an intermittent fever of tetanic form. At all events, the few recoveries unques- tionably due to neurotomy and to the removal of cicatricial constriction by incision, show that this theory is not applicable to all cases. vol. hi.—39