INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 184 Circular No. 3, S. G. 0., p. 238. to be of much use in such cases, must be promptly applied; otherwise, so much blood will be lost as to prove fatal by anaemic exhaustion, if not by syncope. Both ends of the severed artery must be tied with carbolized cat- gut. The following example will usefully illustrate the subject of ligating the smaller arteries which may be severed in gunshot wounds:— Private W. Jess, Troop M, 7th Cavalry, received Nov. 21, 1868, a gunshot wound of right forearm at the middle. The ball passed between the radius and the ulna without fracturing either. No hemorrhage occurred until the fifth day ; afterward, hemorrhage occurred about every twenty-four hours, generally at night, from a few ounces to a pint at a time. When the dressings were removed the hemorrhage would cease; an opera- tion was consequently delayed from day to day, in the hope that it would be unnecessary. The arm began to swell, became painful, tense, and glossy, and from above the elbow to the shoulder was swollen and oedematous. On Dec. 5, a deep incision, four inches long, was made lengthwise at the wound. A large quantity of clotted blood was thrown out from between the muscles, which had been dissected up by it in every direction. The interosseous artery was found severed, and both ends of it were tied. The pain was immediately relieved, and the swelling rapidly disappeared. No bad symptoms oc- curred, and the patient was returned to duty in January, 1869.1 The second indication in the treatment of cases where large arteries are divided in gunshot wounds, is to anticipate .and prevent the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. Should the ends of the severed artery be sought for and tied, in such cases, when they are not bleeding ? Secondary hemorrhage when it occurs in such cases is almost always fatal; and, inasmuch as the best method of preventing secondary hemorrhage from wounded arteries consists in properly tying them, I do not doubt that, in most cases where large arteries are divided in gunshot wounds, their ends should, if practicable, be brought into view by making the necessary incisions, and carbolized catgut liga- tures should be applied to both the proximal and the distal ends, although they are not bleeding at the time. Had this been done in three of the cases presented above, where secondary hemorrhage occurred and death ensued, namely, that of George Bobinson, whose carotid artery was divided, that of James Brown, whose femoral artery was severed, and that of W. J. Beverley, whose brachial artery was cut across, there is good reason to believe that all of them would have been saved. Furthermore, I hold that, in every case of gunshot injury where there is reason to believe that large arterial trunks have been damaged, even when they are not divided, a careful search should be made; and should it prove that such is the case, they should be tied with antiseptic ligatures, whether bleeding or not, to render them secure against the effects of reaction and the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. These proceedings, and the taking- care to tie the ligatures in such a way that they cannot slip off from the ends of the artery, constitute the chief surgical means of fulfilling the second indication. The third indication in the treatment of such cases consists in anticipating the occurrence and obviating the effects of gangrene. Whenever the femoral, popliteal, or posterior tibial artery in the upper third of the leg is severed in a gunshot wound, there is much greater risk of the occurrence of gangrene than of secondary hemorrhage; and gangrene is more fatal than even secondary hemorrhage in such cases. For out of eighteen cases of gangrene caused by gunshot wounds of arteries, related or referred to above, all ended fatally save one, and in this the patient was saved by amputation. The great danger of this form of gangrene is because of the very great liability to the occurrence of septicaemia from the non-formation of a demarcating line, as I have just shown