INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 570 The state of the temperature in the paralyzed parts has not been much studied, except by the American surgeon. When the peripheral end is irritated, there will be a slight elevation of temperature. After complete section, at the end of a certain time, there will always be lowering of temperature. In a case of contusion of the nerves of the arm, with immediate paralysis of the muscles of the forearm and of the hand, M. Terrillon observed, twenty-four hours after the accident, a difference of over six degrees (11° Fahr.) in the temperature of the two limbs ; the thermometer placed in the paralyzed hand marked only 23.9° (75° Fahr.), while in the hand of the opposite side it marked 30.5° (86.9° Fahr.). The scarcity of recorded cases does not permit further dwelling upon this part of the question. The trophic disturbances which affect the more deeply seated tissues are, with the exception of the muscular changes, very much more rare. The lesions of the cellular tissue are limited to a certain degree of oedema more or less marked. This oedema may appear and disappear again several times at intervals. In the end, it is possible that the subcutaneous tissue may remain thickened and indurated. Weir Mitchell has seen, following a gunshokwound of the arm, an elephantiasis-like swelling of a portion of the hand. As to suppuration, the case reported by Couyba is the only one which would indicate the possibility of this termination. The lesions of the bones and articulations are not much more common; at least the published cases are few in number. The principal characters of the arthropathies, or joint-diseases consequent upon secondary nerve-injuries, are: a painful swelling, which may attack one or all the joints of the limb; a slight redness around the articulation; extreme sensibility of the affected joints; and, finally, persistent rigidity, with a semi-anchylosis which resists all treatment. “ When the acute stage has disappeared,” says Mitchell, “ the tissues around the articulation are indurated, and there results a partial anchy- losis.” These joint-inflammations appear a certain but variable time after the traumatism, and are accompanied by the other disturbances which we have noted as affecting the skin, and sometimes by a more or less extended inflammatory oedema. The joints in the part supplied by the injured nerve are alone involved. Microscopic examination of the articulations thus affected has rarely been made. In a case published in the these d’agregation of Blum, the histological study of the parts, in a man who died seven years after a complete section of the median nerve, showed that the cartilages of the dis- eased articulations were softened and thinned, and presented a marked cellu- lar proliferation ; the bones were rarefied and likewise thinned, the compact layer also being diminished in thickness. The few examples known of osseous lesions resulting from nerve-wounds have been collected by W. Ogle. Cases of necrosis following accidental or operative nerve-wounds have been recorded, but the most frequent lesion appears to be atrophy of the bone. I have already mentioned Blum’s case. Lobstein observed a remarkable instance of atrophy of the femur, in a man who, when a child, had received a serious wound of the thigh, involving the sciatic and crural nerves. In another case of Ogle’s, in consequence of a wound of the median nerve, the ulna and radius were found united at their lower part by an osseous deposit; there was an extremely marked atrophy of the bones of the hand, which had preserved their shape, but had become very light and transparent. The different trophic disturbances which have been enumerated are not a necessary result of traumatic nerve-lesions; on the contrary, the muscles to which the cut nerve is distributed inevitably undergo, after a certain time, the alterations which will now be described. This is easily explained with the view that is now held as to the relations of muscular fibre with the nerv-