ANEURISM. 876 times be split into any number of coats, sometimes only one can be found, sometimes it is impossible to determine whether one of the coverings is a normal part or an entirely fresh formation.1 Let us therefore at once, and through- out this article, discard the terms false and true aneurism, with the remark that a dilatation of the whole periphery of an artery is generally constituted by all the vascular coats. A protrusion or bulging of one side or aspect of an artery is, unless merely incipient, accompanied by rupture of one or more coats. Some writers have described a form of false aneurism—“ hernial”—the existence of which is more than doubtful. It is, as its name implies, supposed to be formed by the bulging of the inner through an opening in the middle and outer coats. There is, I think, no doubt that a certain false lining often found in diseased arteries has been mistaken for a dilated inner coat, and that preparations supposed to illustrate this condition are the artificial produc- tions of over-zealous dissection. Better reason might be shown for the term diffuse aneurism, were it used in a more reasonable and consistent manner; but it is, unfortunately, applied to such tumors as are still circumscribed, if at any point the capsule appear to consist not of arterial coats, but of condensed adjacent tissue, and also to unlimited effusion of blood into cavities or tissues resulting from wound or rupture of a healthy or previously diseased artery. Some reform in this nomenclature is urgently needed, and will immediately be supplied. The clinical distinctions of aneurisms, borne out as they are by anatomical facts, are these:— Fusiform Aneurisms are such tumors as are produced by dilatation or expansion of the whole periphery of an artery. Whether this centrifugal dilatation be or be not uniform, it is always greatest at or about the centre, diminishing towards either end, where it joins the normal tube—it is, there- fore, in form biconical or spindle-shaped. A less advanced form of the disease is sometimes termed aneurismal dilatation. Such aneurisms have, therefore, two communications with the rest of the vessel—the one proximal, the other distal. Sacculated Aneurism is that form of the disease which is produced by tbe expansion of a limited spot on one aspect of an artery, and which has, therefore, but one foramen of communication with the circulating stream ; this is nearly always beside the current, like a diverticulum or bay, and is called “the moutharound and adjacent to it is the “neckand the bulk of the tumor, always larger than the neck, is the “body” of the aneurism. The whole is inclosed by the “sac.” A sacculated may spring from a fusiform aneurism, or from an aneurismal dilatation; in such cases the mouth is larger in proportion to the body than when the tumor arises from an artery of normal calibre. This form of aneurism may arise without any traceable im- mediate cause, and is then called spontaneous ; or may result from injury— blow, strain, or even direct wound—when it is called traumatic, a term con- cerning which a few words must be said presently. A Dissecting Aneurism results from an escape of blood through a rent in the inner coverings of an artery, while the outer envelopes are sufficiently strong to resist dilatation. The blood therefore percolates a certain, often a 1 Mr. Erichsen says that a false aneurism may always he distinguished if on section the middle coat is seen to terminate abruptly in a dense ring immediately round the neck of the sac, and certainly it seems like a truism to say that the edge of a ruptured coat shows that rupture, that is, falsity of aneurism, exists ; but I have seen many aneurisms, undoubtedly false, in which no such abrupt edge, no undoubted and definite place of demonstrable rupture, could he traced.