119 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. on Anel’s plan, would fail, because the two vertebrals unite to form the basilar artery at the base of the brain, and therefore regurgitating hemorrhage would occur in the wound whenever the direct hemorrhage might be stopped in this way. Distal ligature of this artery, between the occipital bone and the atlas, as suggested by Dietrich, would be both difficult in performance and uncertain in result. There remains, then, only the operation of plugging the wounded artery, a measure which has been successfully employed in one case by Dr. Kocher, of Bern. On dilating the wound in the neck hy suitable incisions both longitudinal and trans- verse, and removing the coagula, the blood was seen to come from a point between the transverse processes of two vertebras, apparently the fifth and sixth. Arterial blood escaped from both the central and the peripheral portions of the artery; and the bleeding was arrested by pressure against the transverse processes, either from above or from below. As a ligature could not be applied, a plug of charpie of the size of a pea, soaked in solution of perchloride of iron, was introduced between the transverse processes, and left there, as soon as it had been ascertained that the bleeding was sup- pressed. The external wound having been closed by sutures, was covered with charpie dipped in carbolized glycerine, Lister’s carbolic-acid paste was applied, and the dressing was retained in place by a bandage. The head was kept fixed by a stiff collar. The plug in the deep part of the wound was removed on the fourth day after the operation, partly by means of a stream of water, partly by forceps; no bleeding followed. Ex- cepting a slight attack of erysipelas, the patient progressed steadily toward recovery, and was discharged cured a little more than five weeks after the operation.1 But in order to secure the success of this operation of plugging the verte- bral artery, it is essential that the bleeding point in the vessel shall be exposed to view, that the plug shall he placed exactly in the open canal of the vessel, which it must completely till, and that the patient’s head shall be held fixed, and the neck immovable, by a stiff collar. False consecutive aneurisms of the vertebral artery are not unfrequently met with; they will be discussed in the section devoted to the subject of Traumatic Aneurism. Carotid Artery.—Punctured wounds involving the common carotid artery, or its branches, are often met with, owing to the exposed situation of the parts supplied with blood by the carotid system of vessels; and, from the comparative ease of performing the operation, ligation of the common trunk for suppressing hemorrhage from these wounds, has probably been resorted to much more frequently than has been desirable. In instances too numer- ous to mention, the common carotid artery has been tied for lesions of its branches, without success, when the result would have been quite different had the wounded artery itself been properly secured. It is therefore im- perative, when branches of the external carotid, for instance, are opened by wounds, that they should be tied at their wounded part with ligatures placed on each side; and, in cases where the performance of this operation, as well as ligation of the trunk of the wounded vessel itself, is impracticable, it is equally imperative that the external carotid should be tied, and not the parent trunk of all. In two instances, Stephen Smith ligatured the external and internal carotid arteries, just above the bifurcation of the common carotid for hemorrhage from various points of the face and neck, and into the mouth and fauces ; in one case it was for cancer, and in the other for gunshot injury. He thought thus to avoid renewal of the bleeding better than by ligature of the common trunk. In neither case was there any return of the bleeding, the ligatures separated well, and the patients recovered.2 Again, in cases of hemorrhage from branches of the external carotid, such as the lingual, inter- 1 Sydenham Society’s Biennial Retrospect, 1871—2, p. 203. 2 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 1874.