313 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. ment of it from the fascia transversalis; and, in order to avoid this accident, the work of separating the fascia transversalis from it should be begun high up in the wound of operation, where the attachments are the weakest. Again, there is great danger of rupturing the peritoneum while separating it from the iliac fossa; and, in order to avoid this accident, the peritoneum, with the intestines inclosed therein, should he cautiously raised up on the palms of an assistant standing on the other side of the patient, while the operator, with his lingers, gently severs the attachments. The common iliac artery was ligatured for the first time in 1812, by Pro- fessor William Gibson, of Philadelphia, for hemorrhage from a gunshot wound; but the patient died, thirteen days after the operation, from a renewal of the bleeding. This artery was ligatured for aneurism for the first time in 1827, by Dr. Valentine Mott, of Sew York; the patient recovered. The statistics which have been collected show that the common iliac artery has been ligatured about sixty-eight times, with only sixteen recoveries. Ligation of the Internal Iliac Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The internal iliac artery issues from the common iliac at the sacro-iliac synchondrosis. It runs downward and forward to the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It usually is about one inch and a half in length. It is in rela- tion, anteriorly, with the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum; posteriorly, with the internal iliac vein and the lumbo-sacral nerve ; it rests on the sacral plexus of nerves and the pyriformis muscle; on the left side it is overlapped by the rectum. Operation.—The steps of the procedure required to expose the internal iliac artery are identical with those employed to expose the common iliac artery (Fig. 475). The needle should be passed from within outward, keeping its point close to the artery, to avoid injuring the internal iliac vein, which lies behind and to the inner side of it. The internal iliac artery may also be ligatured by making an incision five inches in length, half an inch outside of, and parallel to, the epigastric artery, as was practised by Stevens. Finally, it may be ligatured by making an elliptical incision seven inches in length, commencing two inches to the right or left of the umbilicus, according to the case, and ending near the external abdominal ring, with its convexity toward the ilium (White). Fig- 496. The internal iliac artery was ligatured for the first time in 1812, by Stevens, of Santa Cruz ; the opera- tion proved successful. Since his time, the opera- tion has been frequently repeated, the whole num- ber of cases being about twenty-seven, with eight recoveries. Ligation of the Gluteal Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The gluteal artery emerges from the pelvis, through the upper margin of the great sacro- ischiatic foramen, and at the upper border of the pyriformis muscle. It is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the gluteal nerve. Operation.—A line drawn from the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the apex of the trochanter major indicates the course of the artery. Place the patient on his belly, with his Ligation of the left giuteai ar- thigh extended. Make an incision four or five (bIo1^L^?c.X inches in length, on the line just mentioned, through teai Vein's.