DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 653 across cushions laid under the back in such a way as to make extension upon the displaced bones. In all cases the patient should he confined to the hori- zontal position until some union has been secured. Dislocations of Ensiform Cartilage.—The ensiform cartilage has been dislocated in a number of instances, generally without fatal results. A blow upon the epigastrium is the only cause known to have produced this luxa- tion. When it has occurred, the most prominent symptoms have been those due to the unusual pressure in this region caused by the displaced cartilage. Violent vomiting, with or without dyspnoea, is present, and the symptoms persist until reduction has been effected. Examination shows the cartilage to have been forced inward, leaving something of a depression at its natural location. Reduction is indicated in all these cases to relieve the internal organs from the unnatural pressure, and after this has been effected, the symptoms may be expected to subside. Sometimes the reduction may be accomplished by the fingers of the sur- geon, elevating the cartilage to its place. In case the manipulation fail, an incision may be required, and instruments may be employed to aid in the replacement. In one case referred to by Poland,1 after twenty-five days, -during which time there were constant dyspnoea and vomiting, the cartilage was elevated by means of an instrument passed beneath it through an open- ing made for the purpose into the peritoneal cavity. Immediate relief was obtained, and the patient made a good recovery. Dislocations of the Clavicle. Owing to the form of its articulations, the clavicle is, of all bones in the body, the most difficult to retain in position. Luxations occur both at the sternal and acromial extremities. I. Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle. The sternal end of the clavicle may be dislocated upward, forward, or backward. Forward dislocations are usually produced by blows upon the outer side of the shoulder, by which the clavicle is violently driven inward, so as to be forced at its inner end forward upon the sternum. In some instances the accident has resulted from severe muscular effort without external violence. Symptoms.—The head of the bone lies beneath the skin, projecting in front of the sternum near its upper border, where it always may be felt, and, from the tumor which it forms, usually may be seen. In fat persons, however, or where much swelling has occurred, this symptom may be obscured. The shoulder is thrown somewhat backward by the lever-like action of the bone, which forces its outer end in a direction opposite to that in which its inner end has been displaced. Often the head is inclined toward the affected side by the patient's efforts to relax the painful tension of the sterno-mastoid. The prominence formed by the clavicular origin of this muscle stands out more under the skin than 1 Holmes’s System of Surgery, 2d edit. vol. ii. p. 572.