521 ANEURISM OF ARCH OF AORTA. year 1869, Dr. Cockle called attention1 to several cases in which aneurism of the aorta had been cured, or greatly benefited, by obliteration of the left common carotid artery, whether by accidental impaction or by the surgeon’s art, under the influence of a mistaken diagnosis ;2 and he recommended that in certain cases (which he did not very clearly define) of aortic disease, the left carotid should be tied in the neck. Shortly after, a suitable case pre- sented itself, and under Dr. Cockle’s supervision, Mr. Heath performed the operation. The practice has since been followed by Mr. Holmes and by myself, with incontestable benefit. I was assiduously going through this whole subject, studying the results of operation and the causes of success or failure, when it appeared to me that Dr. Cockle’s theory did not by any means exhaust the sub- Fig. 546. ject; and this idea was confirmed by considering cases of aortic aneurism, indubitably benefited, perhaps even cured, when the diagnosis had been incorrect, and when, under error, treatment had been directed to the innominate by tying vessels on the right side of the neck. This appeared to me connected with a curious fact in pathology. A concretion de- tached from an aortic valve al- most invariably finds its way into the left carotid, occasionally into the left subclavian; into the right carotid about once in twenty-five cases. Hence it has been assumed that the left vessel lies more fully than the right in the axis of the ascending aorta. The very re- verse is the fact, as may be proved by making a little punc- ture in each carotid just below its bifurcation, and passing long probes down both, as far as they will go, when, on removing the chest-wall and opening the aorta, the tom probes will be seen crossing each other within the vessel. The right probe passes through the aortic opening not far from its left margin, and is well within the ventricle. The left probe strikes the tendinous ring of the aortic orifice on the right aspect of the vessel. In some bodies the end of the instrument will be just within the heart; in Axes of heart) aorta, and carotids. 1 Lancet, 1869, vol. i. pp. 422 and 489. s See hereafter the cases of Montgomery, Tilanus, and Rigen; when error has been committed, the aneurism has been diagnosed as of the left carotid itself.