GANGLION. 21 seldom does it happen that the inflammation, spreading from the palmar bur- sse to the carpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations, completely destroys these, and at the same time produces necrosis of the bones entering into their forma- tion, so that not infrequently amputation through the forearm is ultimately rendered necessary. Extension of the inflammation along the muscular planes of the forearm to the elbow, and thence along those of the arm even to the shoulder, frequently takes place, terminating favorably only after a protracted siege, and oftentimes causing death of the part if not of the patient. Occa- sionally, and not so very seldom either, as a result of suppuration in the palm or in the forearm, opening of a palmar arch or of one or more of the main vessels of the forearm occurs, the resulting hemorrhage necessitating an extensive dissection in order that its source may be ascertained, or, as some- times happens, amputation of the extremity. Acute gangrene, quickly prov- ing fatal, has been seen in connection with palmar abscess, and septicaemia is frequently observed. Treatment.—The treatment to be adopted is as clearly defined as is the affection itself. The essential point is the early opening of the abscess and the securing of thorough drainage, due care, of course, being taken to avoid wounding important bloodvessels and nerves. If the first incision fails to put a stop to the extension of the disease, and burrowing of matter continues, subsequent openings must be made, in the palm of the hand, above the annu- lar ligament, or anywhere in the forearm where pus is evidently accumu- lated. Anodynes, stimulants, and a general supporting treatment will be required, according to the circumstances of the individual case. Very favor- able reports have of late years been furnished by numerous surgeons of the value of the antiseptic method in the treatment of these palmar abscesses, as respects both their evacuation and the prevention of troublesome and dan- gerous sequelae. Ganglion.—Serous cysts or, as they are usually called, ganglia, are often met with in connection with tendons, especially the extensors of the fingers (those of the extensor communis and extensor indicis particularly) and those of the toes; and by their presence they give rise to deformity, pain, and weak- ness. The ganglia which are so frequently seen upon the back of the wrist or hand, while generally but pouchings of the sheaths of the tendons, may be due to protrusions of the synovial membrane of the radio-carpal or carpal articulations, and much more rarely to serous distension of original or secondary mucous bursae. The tendo-vaginal hernias are most likely to ap- pear just below or above the constricting posterior annular ligament, but the protrusions may be through normal or abnormal openings at other points. Frequently they appear suddenly, in consequence of exertion with associated twisting of the hand, but at times they are developed very slowly, by simple enlargement of the natural dilatations of the “ end openings” in immediate relation with the annular ligament. The arthritic ganglia may be rapidly produced as the result of strain and twist, or slowly by enlargement of the “ synoviparous crypts” of Gosselin. In the former case it is easy to deter- mine the connection with the main synovial sac, since pressure suffices to press out the fluid, which more or less quickly returns according as the ori- fice of communication is large or small. The diagnosis of ganglion is readily made; the history of its appearance, its location, its cystic contents, and the absence of inflammation in the over- lying skin, at once indicate its nature. Ganglia may be treated by rupture, by puncture, by subcutaneous section, by open division, or by partial or complete removal. Local applications and pressure at times cause a disappearance of the swelling, but thus effected the