INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 556 the immediate union of a nerve has never been observed; we shall see here- after, in studying the process of repair, what led surgeons to admit such an occurrence, in spite of the constant opposition of physiologists, who had never observed it in their vivisections. "When the ends of the nerve are too far separated, or when there exists an obstacle between them which prevents their union, they swell and are separ- ately cicatrized, the central end being the most swollen—probably, according to Follin, on account of its greater vascularity. The distance at which the two ends of a nerve can no longer unite, varies with the age of the patient. From vivisections it is found that a gap of six or seven centimetres (2f inches) is only exceptionally closed. The nerve-trunk of new formation is complete in animals at the end of from four to six months ; in man the time has not yet been positively determined; the nerve-trunk always remains smaller than the original nerve. We shall see hereafter what are the phenomena of degen- eration and regeneration which take place in the divided nerves, but the suc- cession of phenomena is not always favorable, and different alterations may persist either in the peripheral end alone—as, for example, in case of absence of union and regeneration—or in the central end itself, as in the case of incom- plete division. The lesions which are then met with are neuritis and sclerosis, which it is sufficient to mention here. These changes may extend far from the point originally injured, and frequently reach the nerve-centres. Finally, in some experimental cases, there has been found atrophy of certain portions of the spinal cord without appreciable lesion of the central end of the injured nerve (Avezon). The encysting and toleration of foreign bodies [within nerves], admitted by Tillaux on the authority of Otto Weber, must also be referred to. There are no cases to establish the fact of such a termina- tion, which is possible, but must be brought about very slowly. Beside the lesion of the nerve-tissue, there may also be found in chronic •cases certain atrophic or dystrophic lesions in the territory supplied by the injured nerves, and even in that supplied by neighboring nerves. For the present I shall content myself with a mere mention of these lesions, which will be again referred to in connection with the secondary symptoms of nerve- wounds. ■Symptoms.—The symptoms of nerve-wounds may be divided into the primary symptoms, which manifest themselves at the moment of the injury and during the following days, and the secondary symptoms, which super- vene at a later period, and which depend upon the degeneration or inflam- mation of the injured nerve. The primary symptoms are local or general. The latter, more seldom met with, are general convulsions which especially follow incomplete sections of nerves, and are due to the intensity of the pain and the nervous irritability of the patients, and, above all, to traumatic shock, which is said to be observed frequently in cases of contused wound of the neck (Weir Mitchell). The primary local symptoms are pain and defects in sensation and motion. At times there is noticed a local stupor, which consists in inactivity, insensi- bility, and coldness of the limb, and which is especially seen in cases of gun- shot wound. This symptom rarely occurs, except in connection with trau- matic shock, in the "other varieties of nerve-wounds, unless there has been considerable hemorrhage. The pain is acute and persistent in cases of punctured and incomplete incised wounds, and is also acute, but of short duration, in cases of complete division. At other times it is lancinating and stinging; and sometimes it is absent, especially in cases of gunshot wound. If a foreign body is present, the pain persists, and is increased by the slightest touch.