INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. 634 wounds. Optico-ciliary neurotomy has also been extolled as a remedy for sympathetic ophthalmia, and section of the sciatic nerve for the cure of Arabian elephantiasis. Physiology.—I shall say here only a few words upon the physiology of nerve-section, referring, for that which relates to this question, to what was said in regard to accidental sections of nerves, their cicatrization, and the trophic lesions by which they may be followed. Let me repeat only, that the section of a mixed nerve is generally fol- lowed by paralysis of motion and sensation in a great part of its territory, but that these sensory-motor disturbances may be more or less completely and more or less rapidly lessened, in consequence, no doubt, of the return of nervous influence through the anastomoses of neighboring nerves. This substitution may he such that the section of an important nerve does not cause any functional disturbance, even momentarily, as has been seen in several instances, after isolated section of the median nerve in the forearm, without lesion of either the radial or the ulnar nerve. It is proper to insist here very particularly upon these facts, which, although rare, may explain to us the failure of operative nerve-sections in a certain number of cases. It must be added that, according to Letievant and Tripier, the functional in- tegrity after nerve-sections is more apparent than real; indeed, according to the former of these authors, the preservation of movements is due to the combined action of muscles innervated by uninjured nerve-trunks (substituted motility). As to the sensibility, it is preserved, by anastomoses, at the peri- phery of the zone of distribution of the nerve, but it is wanting in the re- mainder of its extent; the tactile sense alone is partly preserved on account of the shock which is communicated to the healthy papillae of the neigh- borhood, mechanically, absolutely as if the finger were touched by that of another person; tactile impressions are, indeed, transmitted in both cases by contiguity, but the painful and thermic impressions are null. At other times, on the contrary, the paralysis extends beyond the domain of the cut nerve—an event which is explained by the occurrence of vaso- motor disturbances. After a certain period, about from four to six months, according to experi- ments upon animals, the phenomena of paralysis disappear by a process very different from that of which wre have just spoken, by a true nervous regenera- tion, characterized by the appearance of nerve-fibres in the midst of the cicatricial tissue which unites the two ends of' the divided nerve; this process has already been described on a preceding page. When there is a loss of substance of the nerve, the immediate phenomena are the same, but the regeneration is more slowly effected; easily obtained after a resection of two centimetres (f inch), according to Tripier, it becomes exceptional when the portion removed measures from four to six centimetres (1J-2 inches). These figures are furnished by experiments upon animals and are not strictly applicable to man. Indications and Results.—In speaking of the history of these operations, the several affections in which section and excision of nerve-trunks are em- ployed have been briefly mentioned. It now remains for us to study in detail the indications and results of these operations in each of these affections. Neuralgia constitutes the least disputed indication for nerve-section or excision, and these operations have been practised a much greater number of times for this affection than for all others together. In the pages which treat of neuralgia in general, I insisted upon the import- ance and the difficulty of making a precise diagnosis as to the nature of the