ARTERIO-VENOUS WOUNDS; ANEURISMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURISM. 247 to favor the return of venous blood toward the heart, and, in the same way, its pulsation is lessened. But, when the limb hangs down, or pressure is applied to the vein on the cardiac side of the tumor, it enlarges or forms a more considerable swelling. Compressing the vein on the distal side of the tumor does not lessen either its size or its pulsation. When, however, the artery is compressed on the cardiac side of the tumor, the pulsation imme- diately ceases, and it instantly returns on raising the compression. The trunk of the artery, after a time, becomes considerably enlarged ; and it pul- sates more strongly than the corresponding vessel in the other limb. But, on the distal side of the tumor, the arteries get smaller and pulsate less strongly than they do in the corresponding part of the other limb. The sounds can often be heard in the veins at a considerable distance. Aneurismal varix usually progresses but very slowly. There are cases on record in which no increase was observed for 18, 20, and even 85 years. When, however, the varicosities do enlarge, much evil may ensue from the pressure exerted by them. The obstruction to the venous circulation will cause oedema and cyanosis of the affected limb, and a lowered temperature, with ulceration or sloughing of the varicosities themselves, followed by hemorrhage, and sometimes by gangrene. The following example was reported during the late civil war; it will serve to illustrate the symptoms and progress of this lesion:— The patient was a soldier, aged 24. When a youth of 16, he was accidentally wounded with a pocket-knife, at the inner part of the left thigh, about two inches below Poupart’s ligament, the blade puncturing the femoral artery and vein near the origin of the profunda. Profuse hemorrhage ensued, but it was arrested by compression ; the wound healed, and in a week the patient went to work again as a farmer. After- ward he had no trouble, except sometimes a slight pain in the track of the wound after unusual exertion, until August, 1863, eight years after the accident, when, being now in the army, his limb suddenly swelled, in consequence of hardship and a long, fatiguing march, so as to measure thirty-two inches in circumference. On Fig. 445. Aneurismal varix of left thigh. Terminal portion of aorta and both iliac arteries also shown, with a ligature in position on the left one. (Spec. 3597, A. M. M.) November 12, he entered the military hospital at Newark, N. J. The left thigh was much swollen, with oedema and varicosities, and presented a cyanosed appearance; an aneurismal thrill and bruit were also observed. On February 6, 1864, the external iliac artery was ligatured, but without benefit. In the following summer, the thigh became enormously distended, and a number of openings which had formed in it put on a gangrenous appearance. At the end of August the thigh measured thirty-seven inches in circumference, and its veins appeared more distended than before the operation. On September 17 the common iliac artery was ligatured, and on the fifth day afterward the patient died of peritonitis. A preparation was made of the vessels involved, which is preserved in our Army Medical Museum.1 It is repre- sented in the wood-cut above (Fig. 445). The ligature on the common iliac is shown 1 Spec. 3597.