5 HYPERTROPHY OF MUSCLE. developed inflammations are of syphilitic origin. Not so very rarely there are met with, most usually in so-called scrofulous subjects, cold abscesses, single or multiple, varying in size, hut never very large, easily to be felt in the substance of the muscle, and because of their firmness and the absence of all inflammatory symptoms often mistaken for muscle-tumors. When by the coalescence of several of the originally separated abscesses a single and rather large one is formed, a well-defined limiting pyogenic membrane will be found to exist. Contractures.—As a result of the connective-tissue sclerosis, muscular shortenings occur, with produced deformities of varying degree and perma- nency. The hardened and contracted belly of the muscle can easily be felt, and neither actively nor passively can full extension be secured. When treat- ment is early instituted, restoration of the muscle to its functional integrity often takes place, hut when the diseased condition has long existed, the muscle is, ordinarily, irreparably damaged, and either myotomy or tenotomy will be required before the resulting deformity can be corrected. In the “ late rigidity ” associated with paralysis of cerebral origin, the flexors of the upper extremity being the muscles especially affected, the contracture may be expected to be permanent. Rest, frictions, methodical massage, stimulating applications, and electricity, are each and all of service in promoting the cure. As will hereafter be seen, many of these conditions are of syphilitic origin, and to be relieved only, if at all, by the use of mercury and the iodides. All muscular contractions are not dependent upon inflammatory sclerosis. They may be rather apparent than real, as when the opposing muscles are paralyzed. Oftentimes they are reflex in origin and protective in character, as is constantly seen in the case of the rigid muscles about an inflamed joint; though in such cases the contractions frequently beqome real in course of time from degenerative changes following the abnormal approximation of the two ends of the muscle. Such rigidity, as of the adductors in morbus coxarius, and of the erector spinse in vertebral caries, is not infrequently the earliest symptom noticeable, and its detection should always lead to a very careful examination of the neighboring joint or joints. Though for a considerable length of time these reflex contractions are dependent upon nerve irritation, and the muscle remains perfectly healthy, yet, if long-continued, inflammatory and degenerative changes occur, and contracture takes the place of contrac- tion—the active yielding to the passive state. In hysteria, contractions, lasting sometimes for years and then disappearing, it may he suddenly, are met with; and the cutting off of the blood-supply may give rise to contrac- tions much akin to post-mortem rigidity. Hypertrophy of Muscle.-—Increase in the size of a muscle may be real and due to the formation of new muscular elements or enlargement of those already existing, or may be apparent and consequent upon the presence of fat, connective-tissue hyperplasia, or excessive development of the lymphatics and bloodvessels. It may be congenital or acquired, limited or general, sym- metrical or unilateral. Not infrequently, as in various classes of workmen, it can be directly traced to disproportionate use of the affected muscle or muscles, and in certain pathological conditions, as in cardiac hypertrophy, and in the thickened bladder walls associated with prostatic enlargement, it is compensatory and salutary. At times the muscular overgrowth is associated with equal or greater increased development of bone, fascise, and skin; in other words, the whole affected region is hypertrophied. Reduction in size of the hypertrophied muscle may often follow diminished functional activity, or