317 DELIGATION OF ARTERIES. geons of the past and present generations.1 One of the best of these modifi- cations is very clearly and tersely described as follows:— Esmarch's Operation.—(1) The cutaneous incision, which is 1 centimetre (about | of an inch) above and parallel to Poupart’s ligament, 8 to 10 centimetres (from 3J to 4 inches) in length, and slightly convex, begins 3 centimetres (about 1-i inches) to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, and ends opposite the internal inguinal ring (without exposing the ring or the spermatic cord). (2) The subcutaneous tissue, the thin superficial fascia, the strong tendinous aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the muscular fibres of the internal oblique are divided ; then the horizontal muscular fibres of the transversalis in the outer angle of the wound. (3) The thin subjacent fascia transversalis must be carefully divided. (In fat subjects there is still a thin layer of fat). (4) The peritoneum is carefully pressed toward the umbilicus with the fingers bent like a hook (taking care not to strip up the iliac fascia from the pelvic wall and with it the artery). (5) The artery lies in contact with the inner border of the psoas muscle; to its inner side is the vein; to the outer side the anterior crural nerve covered by the iliac fascia; the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve crosses the artery obliquely.2 * * * * * 8 Open the sheath cautiously and insinuate the needle beneath the artery, from within outward, to avoid the vein. The external iliac artery was ligatured for the first time, in 1796, by Mr. Abernethy, for inguinal aneurism, a disorder which previously had always been deemed incurable. He lost his first two cases, but saved the third and fourth. The operation was first performed in America by Dr. Dorsey, of Philadelphia. During our civil war this artery was ligatured 16 times with only two successes, but this enormous fatality was due not as much to the hazards attending the operation itself, as to the inutility of tying main arterial trunks for shot-lesions of their branches, instead of securing the injured vessels themselves with both proximal and distal ligatures at the seat of the injury; for nearly two-thirds recover when the external iliac artery is ligatured for other causes, 169 recorded cases having given in all but 61 G 7 O O •d.6£ltllS. Ligation of the Epigastric Artery.—The epigastric artery arises from the anterior face of the external iliac thi’ee or four lines above Poupart’s ligament. At first it descends; then, passing forward between the peritoneum and the transversalis fascia, it ascends obliquely in a line drawn from the middle of Poupart’s ligament to the umbilicus, to the border of the sheath of the rectus. This sheath it enters near the lower third thereof, passes up- ward behind the rectus muscle, to which it is distributed; and in the sub- stance of that muscle ends by inosculating, near the ensiform cartilage, with the termination of the internal mammary artery. It lies behind the inguinal canal, to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and immediately above the femoral ring. It is crossed near its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and by the round ligament in the female. It is accompanied by two veins, almost to its origin. Operation.—Make an incision through the integuments, two and a half or three inches in length, and halt an inch above and parallel to Poupart’s liga- 1 In one instance, however, where I tied the right external iliac artery for ingninal aneurism in a woman, aged about 30, I uncovered the artery, and brought it fully into view by Liston’s modification of Abernethy’s method, without any difficulty whatever. The wound healed kindly, although the ligature was rather late in coming away ; but, after a time, pulsation unhappily reappeared in the tumor, and a relapse occurred. Stephen Smith, I believe, tied the common iliac in this case afterwards, with a fatal result from secondary hemorrhage. Still, I think Cooper’s operation *is to be preferred. 8 Esmarch’s Handbook, p. 155.