543 APPENDIX. ing downwards, backwards, and inwards. It received the end of the little finger, like a thimble. The tumor itself was covered by skin and platysma, and some outer fibres of the sterno-mastoid muscle; the omo-hyoid was stretched across it. The phrenic nerve passed along the inner side, borne otf by the anterior scalenus; the muscle was bulged forwards, but the nerve did not seem to be pressed upon. Across the whole surface of the tumor were, lightly stretched and flattened, large roots and branches of the brachial plexus. In the anterior inferior triangle the tissues overlying the great vessels were so matted together that they could only be dissected with difficulty, especially at the lower part of the carotid. The internal jugular was collapsed. The common carotid was full and firm to the touch as far as the bifurcation. The subclavian vein was empty, and was tightly stretched along the lower and anterior part of the tumor. Its coats were thin, and in two places, near the junction of the internal jugular, there were small translucent patches, apparently from thinning of the internal coat. A few drops of pus oozed out of the lower end of the carotid, into the ulcer which terminated the sinus. On turning forward the anterior scalenus, the aneurism was found to involve the second part of the artery. The tumor was found to rest upon the first rib, and to press against the clavicle in front. These bones were removed ; the rib with its attach- ment to the aneurism, and as much of the aorta as could be reached, were cut across; and the parts were taken out en masse. The tumor was found to spring from the posterior part of the second and third portions of the subclavian artery. It was flattened below, where it rested on the rib, and passed upwards for three inches, ending in a dome-like surface. Corresponding to the cla- vicle, it was constricted. Its clavicular portion measured two and one-eighth inches antero-posteriorly ; its basal portion, two and three-quarters. The artery was elsewhere normal in size. It formed a cord from which the tumor sprang. The axillary portion, as far as it could be removed, was firmly plugged. All the vessels of the first portion were traced, and were pervious. The ulceration, which was somewhat larger than a sixpence in area, was situated at the bifurcation of the innominate into the subclavian and carotid arteries. It involved the anterior portion of the walls, and, looking into it, the clots blocking the three vessels could be seen. The surface was gray and shreddy; there was no staining of blood visible; the vessels were partly slit, and a syringe was used to force water through them in the direction of the circulation, but although this was carefully tried with each vessel, not a drop passed through. The incisions were extended along the vessels towards the ulcer. The wall of the innominate was thickened almost from its origin, and this thickening increased gradually as the site of the ligature was approached, until the depth was about two lines. The clot was firmly adherent to the walls, and extended backwards through the greater extent of the vessel. At its cardiac side was a tongue of organized clot, rather loosely attached, and between it and the firmly adherent clot were some retiform bands of fibrous tissue deeply stained with blood. The subclavian was found to be empty, except at its cardiac end, which was well blocked with a firmly adherent clot. This projected towards the aneurism for about half an inch. No water could be forced through. The common carotid felt solid, but on opening it, it was found that the centre of the clot had degenerated, and was occupied by pulpy, purulent material. The walls of the vessel were thickened; the clot terminated near the bifurcation into the external and internal carotids. The aorta was thickened, atheromatous, and in patches calca- reous. The lung and pleura, as seen on the right side, were healthy. An incision was made into the aneurism from summit to base; it contained about half an ounce of dark, thick blood, and in the centre was some passive clot occupying a cavity about the size of a walnut. The process of cure was evidenced by fibrinous layers upon the walls to the extent of a third of an inch, and on the inner sides of this coating were masses of coagulum, less firm, but evidently undergoing consolidation. A prolonged and careful search was made for traces of the ligature, but none could be found. On the posterior surface of the innominate, opposite the ulceration, was some fatty tissue, intimately adherent to the wall, which could with difficulty be cleaned. A more minute examination of the parts was subsequently made. The vessels were all divided into the ulcer. This showed that the innominate had been constricted at