540 ANEURISM. made a free incision along his clavicle, from the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid outwards, and joined its inner extremity by an incision along the anterior border of the same muscle. The clavicular attachment of the muscle was divided and turned up, and then the sterno-mastoid and sterno-thyroid were cut, to uncover the carotid, care- fully avoiding the branches of the omo-hyoidean plexus, which could be seen. The vessel was of very large size, so much so indeed that some of those present thought I had arrived at the innominate. This belief was encouraged by the fact that at first, pres- sure upon it with the finger stopped pulsation in the carotid higher up, and also in the tumor; but this did not always occur, and was evidently the result of pressure on the subclavian communicated from a distance. I now went further down in search of the bifurcation ; but this was an extremely tedious and anxious proceeding, and I was com- pelled to divide nearly the whole of the sternal attachment of the sterno-mastoid. Coming at last upon the origins of the subclavian and the carotid, at what appeared to be an alarming depth, the difficulty of reaching the innominate beyond was increased by the sky becoming obscured by a heavy thunder-cloud, which seemed to shut out all the top light. A mirror was then used to throw light into the wound, but without much good result, and I was here much delayed. The sheath of the innominate was at last slowly scraped through, and using an ordinary aneurism needle for this purpose, I succeeded in passing it under the vessel, which appeared to be healthy. I then determined to thread it with ordinary silk, and to use this to draw back the tape ligature which Mr. Barwell had been good enough to send me. But failing in this, as the opening between the sheath and the vessel was too small, I withdrew all, and threading a special needle, invented by Mr. Barwell, with the curved portion movable by a lever, I introduced this with comparative ease. I then, before tying, tested the effect of pressure upon the vessel, between my finger and the tape; lifting the vessel freely from its bed, and finding that all movement ceased in the aneurism, and in the carotid, I secured the ligature with three knots, drawing the ends with moderate firmness. The edges of the wound were brought together, and a drainage tube having been introduced into the lower part, an antiseptic dressing was applied, and fixed by means of an elastic roller. The arm and shoulder were also swathed in sheets of wadding which had been pre- viously heated. The patient was at once carried to bed, a'nd I saw him again in half an hour. The right side of the face was cold, but the pupils were equal. He had not fully recovered from the effects of the ether, but I noticed that when he attempted to ask me some questions, he always broke down in the middle of the sentence, and then seemed to be trying to recollect what he wished to say. This was the only symptom of brain disturbance that ever presented itself, and in the evening he'seemed to have his mental faculties perfectly unimpaired. He was ordered ice, milk and soda-water, and beef tea. Two hours after the operation, the patient complained of pain in the shoulder, and had one-third of a grain of morphia hypodermically, repeated in two hours. Slept for three hours during the evening. Evening temperature 100.6° Fahr. right side, 99.4° left; pulse 136. At 11 o’clock, 99.6° right side, 99° left; pulse 120. No pain. 10th (2d day). At 3 o’clock this morning the patient was seen by Mr. Kidd, house- surgeon. Complained of pain over region of the stomach, and was given a hypodermic injection of morphia. Slept for several hours. In the morning I saw the patient; his stomach was much distended with flatus; ordered turpentine stupes and a carmina- tive. Temperature at 8.30, 99° on both sides; pulse 120. The abdominal symptoms were relieved. At 3.30 respirations were shallow and rapid—44. No pain. Finding that the temperature was then only 99°, and believing that the dyspnoea was caused by compression, I loosened the elastic bandage and the dressings, which gave much relief. Evening temperature 99.8° on both sides ; pulse 132. Diet as before. 11th. About midnight, severe pain in right shoulder; pulse 148. Relieved by mor- phia. Passed a very good night. Morning temperature 99.4° ; pulse 128 ; respiration normal. Wound dressed under spray. Slight serous discharge. Edges uniting. Drainage tube cleansed. Much pain in arm after dressing. Hypodermic injection of one-third of a grain of morphia. Slept nearly all day. Evening temperature 100.4° ; pulse 128. 12th. Morning temperature 99° ; pulse 120. Passed a good night. Looking remark- ably well to day. No radial or temporal pulse. Carotid still. Tumor decidedly smaller, the wrinkles beginning to return in the hitherto tense skin. No pain until