INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 652 life, it is not possible to determine whether the separation has or has not occurred exactly at the junction of the bone with the cartilage. Such a case must, therefore, be treated as if it were one of fractured rib—by replace- ment of the parts in the usual manner, with a bandage around the body [or strips of adhesive plaster], and a compress laid upon that part which shows itself most disposed to spring forward. Dislocation of the Cartilages of the Ribs from the Sternum. (Chon- dro-sternal dislocation.)—The cartilage of the first rib has no synovial articu- lation, either with its rib or with the sternum. The next six costal cartilages are joined to the sternum by true articulations, with capsules and synovial membranes. These joints might theoretically be the seat of dislocations in two directions, that is, backward or forward. Clinical authorities are, however, for the most part silent about any but dislocations of the cartilages forward. The most marked symptom in all these cases seems to be the hard projec- tion formed by the head of the displaced cartilage, lying in front of its pro- per location. The treatment consists in pressing the displaced cartilage back to its place, and there retaining it, as far as practicable, with bandages [or adhesive straps], and a compress. An assistant may aid the reduction by pressing his knee upon the spine, and drawing the shoulders backward. After replacement, the cartilage shows a decided tendency to spring forward, so that it may be difficult or even impossible to maintain the reduction. Something may be accomplished in assisting the retention by means of plaster of Paris, moulded upon the parts and held firmly in place by bandages around the body. Dislocation of the Bones of the Sternum. Of this rare and dangerous accident Malgaigne has recorded ten cases, five of which ended fatally, owing to other complications. Traumatic cases are caused either by direct blows upon the hone itself, or by extremely violent backward flexing of the trunk, as when a person falls from a height, lighting upon a curb or fence. One case (Chevance’s) was caused by violent, forward flexing of the body from a fall. Duverney, quoted by Malgaigne, reports a case in which the cause was lateral compression of the chest by a stone falling upon a man who lay upon his side. Symptoms.—In all but one of the recorded cases of dislocation between the upper and the second pieces of the sternum, the second piece has been thrown forward in front of the lower border of the manubrium. In this in- stance, originally reported by Sabatier, and afterwards included in the me- moir of Maisonneuve, the lower bone was found to have been forced behind the upper by the direct violence of a fall upon a stone. In a majority of instances, the accident is only an accompaniment of more serious injuries, involving the viscera of the thorax or the spinal column. Mediastinal abscesses are prone to occur, even when the viscera are uninjured, and, when they point externally, must be evacuated by incision or aspiration, under very strict antiseptic conditions. Treatment will often be uncalled for, inasmuch as the patient is so often at the point of death from his other injuries. In those cases in which recovery has taken place, reduction has been easily effected by placing the patient in a recumbent position, or by flexing his body