507 INNOMINATE ANEURISM. and thumb of each hand, and then suddenly released, the white mark thus produced will regain its color more slowly on the diseased than on the normal side. These signs show that the carotid artery is aneurismal.1 We now must discover if it alone be involved. The “exclusion signs,” as they may be called, are these:—- There is no sign of pressure on any vein, nor, unless the tumor be very large, on any nerve; larynx, trachea, and oesophagus are all unaffected. Until the sac is large enough to press on those tubes, the radial pulses are alike and unaltered; percussion-sounds of the parts below the sterno-clavicular joint are normal; unless of course the lung happen to be diseased, there is no dul- ness over the first rib and intercostal space. It is assumed in the above paragraphs that the aneurismal nature of the tumor has been distinctly verified ; nevertheless, I would point out that it is well to give the patient a little water, and while he is swallowing to watch the behavior of the tumor—if it rise with the trachea or remain stationary. It is well to point out that the lower, like the upper, part of the common carotid, is in women occasionally the subject of a peculiar condition, which although anatomically abnormal, is yet not the result of disease. I have never had the opportunity of investigating this peculiarity after death, but, from study during life, the condition appears to be the result of the mode in which the innominate divides, incorrectly represented in anatomical works. The received idea of this bifurcation is, that the two vessels arise side by side from the end of the parent stem—in reality they spring one posterior to the other, the subclavian behind. How, in most persons, the carotid runs straight from this point to its bifurcation, leaving a little space, the thickness of the clavicle, between itself and the sterno-mastoid, just above that bone; but in other persons the vessel bends forward over the upper border of the clavicle, touches—even flattens itself a little—against the fascia between the two parts of the muscle, and then swerves back again. The most prominent part of this curve pulsates visibly, sometimes strongly. The sense of touch will, how- ever, distinguish this beat of a perhaps slightly dilated artery, from that of aneurism. Innominate Aneurism, pure and simple, is not a common disease, the trunk being so short that either one or both of its branches, or its root on the aorta, are involved, either at first or soon after the commencement of the disease. Indeed, clinical experience convinces me that many cases of innominate aneurism begin at one or other end of the vessel. Thus, as with carotid aneurism, we encounter a high and a low form of the disease, the symptoms of which are different. Hay, more, the high form, which term indicates participation, perhaps commencement, of the disease in one or other deriva- tive, exhibits different symptoms, according as it begins on the carotid or on the subclavian aspect of the vessel. These differences chiefly regard the re- sults of pressure. Some ambiguity may, however, be produced by a form of aneurism, purely aortic, which, springing from the front of the arch, near the root of the brachio-cephalic trunk, expands in front and in the direction of the latter vessel, occupying anatomically very much the same place as the disease under consideration. The tumor of an innominate aneurism generally occupies the episternal notch, but chiefly on the right side, and, even though it may not rise high, takes up the whole breadth of this space. On gently pressing the finger backward and downward, the rounded margin of the sac can be felt. After 1 It is true that some other forms of aneurism may compress the lower end of the carotid, and obscure the symptoms ; these forms are detected by the signs now to he specified.