847 SYPHILITIC ARTERITIS. Syphilitic arteritis. Shows section of small cere- bral artery near a gumma, magnified 30 diameters, a, lumen of vessel; 6, boundary of inner middle coats ; c, thickened inner coat; d, middle coat; e, external coat; /, infiltrated pia mater. (After Greenfield.) to the muscular layers, and separating rig- 522- them from the inner coat. It is to that part of the vessel lying between a and b (Fig. 522) that attention must he spe- cially directed, the thickened inner coat constituting the essential feature and the peculiarly characteristic element of the morbid change. With a higher power, the thickening of the inner coat is seen to consist entirely of a cell-growth which closely resembles granulation tissue. In the deeper parts, nearest the fenestrated membrane, the cells appear to he flattened, running parallel with the elastic layer, growing, however, more irregular in dis- position towards the centre. 1STo distinct transition line can be discovered between this deeper layer and the central part, in which, however, the cells appear to be larger, often branching and more loosely arranged, with more numerous capillaries running amongst them. Many of the cells in the intermediate layer appear to be rounded, hut it is not im- probable that they are fusiform cells cut transversely. In many parts of the thickened intima the capillaries are numerous and of large size. Toward the lumen of the vessel the cells again assume a flattened or fusi- form shape, and several layers of these cells closely packed together form the innermost part of the new growth, the most internal, superficial layer (that in immediate contact with the blood-current) forming a continuous layer, which corresponds in its functions to normal endothelium. The other specimen (Fig. 523) appears to have undergone different changes. The coats of the vessel are enormously thickened, and the lumen of the ves- sel correspondingly diminished, so as to become a narrow chink (the section is somewhat obliquely made). The thickening of the wall is found to present great variations, at points of the vessel not further apart than one-twelfth of an inch, other sections at that distance from the one repre- sented in the cut not being more than one-half as thick, the external diameter of the vessel re- maining almost constant. The adventitia (e) is slightly thickened and infiltrated by a cell-growth. The muscular coat (d) is of pretty uniform thick- ness, except at some points where invaded with cell-infiltration from the adventitia. The inner coat is enormously thickened, and presents the appearance of two concentric rings, the boundary between which is more or less defined. Exam- ined with a higher power (Fig. 524), the lumen of the vessel is found free from thrombus. The membrana fenestrata is well defined. The mus- cular layer presents very much its normal appear- ance at some points, except that the fibre-cells are somewhat granular. At some points it is en- croached upon by the cell-growth from the outer coat, between which and Syphilitic arteritis. Section of small artery of cerebellum, magnified 30 di- ameters. a, lumen of vessel; e, thick- ened inner coat; d, muscular coat; e, outer coat. (After Greenfield.)