693 DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP. against the extraordinary power about to be called into use for extension. To apply this extension, a damp towel was wrapped about the thigh, just above the knee, and sometimes over this a leather hand was buckled, about which in turn was placed the terminal clove hitch of the extension rope. Traction was now made by compound pulleys, in the slightly adducted and flexed position in which the limb is always found. While the fraction was thus being made, the surgeon gave to the thigh a rotatory movement both inward and outward, the leg being used, so to speak, as a crank, by grasping it near the ankle while the knee was flexed. After some moments, the tissues usually yielded under the enormous tension of the pulleys. The tension of the untorn side of the capsule no doubt dragged the pelvis into a somewhat Fig. 571. Cooper’s method of reduction in dorsal dislocation. more favorable position, some of the resisting fibres yielded or stretched, and the head of the femur gradually approached the socket, until finally it rode over the rim of the joint and snapped suddenly into place. The success at- tending the employment of the extending bands and pulleys, and the fact that for many years they were in general use, show that they were not as severe in actual practice as might be supposed a priori. Upon the old hypo- thesis, that chiefly muscular resistance needed to be overcome, there was nothing absurd in the use of great traction force. As to the question of ulti- mate results, few if any recorded cases can be produced to show that recovery was in any way delayed by the force applied. As to the employment, there- fore, of Sir Astley Cooper’s method, by a modern surgeon, any one will find good surgical authority for the use of the plan, should he choose to try it, and no harm is likely to result to the patient from the experiment; but my own belief is that it never need be employed by any one who has mastered the theory of manipulation. Some uncertainty attended the use of pulleys, their application in the ex- tended position making the Y ligament very tense, and causing it to exert such an enormous resistance as often to baffle the most skilful surgeons. Sometimes, by the use of a tripod to which the extension was attached in a position vertically above the patient’s hips, much better results were obtained. Jarvis’s adjuster added still another facility, for while it was capable of furnishing an enormous amount of traction, it also permitted easy rotation, flexion, and adduction. Even when not best directed, these manipulations commonly assisted much in reduction, partly because they tended to break