721 INCISED WOUNDS OF JOINTS. ing that the capsule has foreign substances within its cavity, it is best to assume that the blade which wounded it was wiped clean by the outer tissues as it entered, and that the outflow of blood and synovia has prevented septic particles from entering. As a matter of fact, in narrow wounds, the steady outflow of viscid synovia often protects the interior for several days from the entrance of septic influences. The wound, being promptly closed by ordinary methods, should have a thorough antiseptic covering, and should be main- tained in a state of perfect immobility. If inflammation occur, cold applica- tions should be vigorously employed, without in the least relaxing the antisep- tic precautions. I advocate no servile adherence to the peculiar methods of Lister, or of an}7 one man; nevertheless, in wounds of joints, a skilful use of antiseptic principles is of extreme importance. If the principles are well comprehended, every surgeon can devise his own methods of applying them. In many cases, the synovial fluid will increase rapidly after the closure of the joint, causing considerable distension of the sac, and this fluid, produced under the inflammatory influence, seems to be of an irritating character. It should be promptly withdrawn, either by repeated aspiration, or by opening a corner of the original wound under antiseptic precautions; and in some cases it is best to insert temporarily a small drainage-tube, keeping it always under strict antiseptic guards. If suppuration ensue despite all care, or if it have already occurred before the surgeon sees the case, the wound must be boldly laid open in such a way as to admit of perfect di’ainage, and of regular daily washing out of the inte- rior with antiseptic fluids, of which carbolized water, of the strength of one part to forty, is one of the best. Incised Wounds of the Knee-joint.—The knee-joint, owing to its size and complexity, has an enormous surface of synovial membrane, amounting to about one hundred square inches, and if we include the bursa under the quadriceps femoris, which very often either communicates with the synovial sac by a free opening, or else constitutes a wide, upward extension of the sac itself, the area will be little short of two hundred square inches. The synovial membrane of the knee always forms two, and sometimes three cavities, sufliciently separated from each other to prevent one part from being washed out through another, and yet connected enough to allow septic infection to contaminate every corner of the whole. The lower cavity is formed by that part of the synovial membrane which is below and behind the patella. This membrane covers the top of the tibia, lapping down about half an inch over its edges, and then, turning upward, covers both surfaces of the semilunar cartilages, and extends upward, about an inch, on each side of the condyles of the femur. From the condyles it is reflected downward and forward, covering the whole end of the bone. At the level of the patella, the synovial sac is constricted considerably, and partly shut off from the cavity above by the pressure of the patella and of certain ligamentous folds against the front of the femur. Above the patella the sac expands again into a large cavity, which often extends pretty high behind the quadriceps muscle. Above the synovial sac proper, is the great sub-muscular bursa which separates the quadriceps from the front of the femur, and which is often connected by a large opening with the sac of the joint itself. The anatomical text-books give a partly erroneous impression, in saying that this bursa does not always exist. For surgical purposes, it is always present; if not as a perfect sac, yet as a very loose connective tissue, which offers no resistance to the diffusion of putrid pus. Even when well developed, the bursa is traversed by a mesh-work of fibrous bands, which grow more vol. hi.—46