173 GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. the day of his admission, the thigh was amputated by the circular method, under ether and chloroform (mixed). Very little blood was lost. There was good reaction. The toes of the amputated limb were bluish; the foot was cold, and covered with bluish and purple spots. The entire leg was greatly swollen; the superficial veins engorged. Small veins on the inner surface of the thigh were somewhat discolored; the integu- ment presented a yellowish color. The pulse of the patient, at the time of the opera- tion, was small, sharp, and frequent. The face was pale, and the tongue coated. The popliteal artery was found to have been perforated by the ball, and to be nearly sur- rounded by a large traumatic aneurism. The tissues of the posterior part of the leg were infiltrated with blood down to its middle third. The popliteal vein was not injured. There was a slight fracture of the inner part of the head of the tibia. After the operation the edges of the wound were approximated with strips of adhesive plaster, and cold-water dressings were applied. On May 31 the patient was recovering, and it is believed that he ultimately got entirely well.1 2 The symptoms in this case denoted that gangrene of the foot and leg was about to occur, and the performance of amputation was therefore indispens- able. Moreover, gunshot wounds involving the popliteal artery are exceed- ingly apt to be followed by gangrene of the foot and leg; and the cause of this liability will be shown in the sequel. The following, likewise, is a good example of the gunshot perforation of a large artery:— The Army Medical Museum1 possesses an example of perforation, from before back- ward, of the right primitive iliac artery, by a pistol-ball. (See Fig. 296, Yol. II. page 198.) The patient lived twelve minutes after the reception of the wound, so that, had a competent surgeon been at hand, and had the abdominal aorta and left primitive iliac artery been firmly compressed against the spine immediately after the casualty, so as to stay the hemorrhage for the time being, it would have been possible to tie the vessel above and below the wound with success. When a large artery is notched or perforated by a gunshot missile, the single orifice that is caused by the notching, or the double orifice that is caused by the perforation of its walls, as the case may be, never heals spon- taneously, for reasons which have just been presented; and if the track of the missile through the parts that surround the artery is in such a condition as to allow unrestrained communication between the orifice in the vessel and the exterior of the b.ody, or the interior of one of its great cavities, such as the cavity of the abdomen or that of the thorax, the patient soon perishes from hemorrhage, unless efficient surgical aid is very promptly afforded. In cases where the arterial orifice happens to be primarily closed by bits of clothing, or by the tom and disintegrated tissues themselves, or by blood-clots, the hemorrhage may thus be restrained until the separation of the disintegrated tissues as a slough begins, when the hemorrhage that has been suppressed for some days will reappear, and the patient will perish from the loss of blood, unless surgical assistance be near at hand. But when from closure of the external wound by pressure, or from closure of the track of the ball by the sliding past each other of muscular planes and fasciae, which sometimes occurs on altering the position of the injured part, the external hemorrhage ceases, but, at the same time, the internal does not cease, the blood continues to issue from the aperture in the wounded artery with each contraction of the heart, and, finding no vent, accumulates in the surrounding connective tissue, thus forming a diffuse traumatic aneurism which may prove fatal by bursting and bleeding, or by causing gangrene, as occurred in Prof. Post’s case above quoted. 1 U. S. Sanitary Commission Surgical Memoirs, pp. 47, 48. New York, 1870. 2 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War of the Rebellion, Second Surg. Vol., pp. 323, 324.