INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 298 muscles, to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It then ascends between the splenius and complexus muscles, and divides into two branches, which are distri- Fig- 477. buted upon the occiput. The hypo- glossal nerve curves around this artery near its origin, from behind forward. Operation.—To tie the artery near its origin, make an incision along the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, two inches in length, and at the angle formed by this muscle and the digastric. Having carefully di- vided the deep fascia, expose and iso- late the artery, carefully protecting the hypoglossal nerve. To tie the artery behind the mastoid process, make an incision two inches long, half an inch behind and a little beneath the mastoid process, obliquely upward and backward (Fig. 477). Divide the skin and aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid muscle, likewise the splenius muscle, to the limits of the wound. The pulsations of the artery are recognized by the finger. It should then be separated from the occipital vein and tied. If the artery be denuded near the mastoid process, much care must be used not to damage the large mastoid tributaries which hereabout enter the occi- pital vein, and establish a communication between it and the lateral sinus of the dura mater. Ligation of the occipital artery. (Sfedillot.) Ligation of the Vertebral Artery.—Surgical Anatomy. — This vessel is the first and largest of the branches of the subclavian artery. It ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, excepting the last; then winds backward around the articulating process of the atlas ; and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two vertebral arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii to form the basilar artery. Each vertebral artery, with the vertebral vein, lies in front of the cervical nerves in the foramina of the transverse processes of the six upper cervical vertebras. Before entering the so-called vertebral canal in the transverse processes just mentioned, the artery passes behind the internal jugular vein and the inferior thyroid artery, to the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, ascending between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, in a line drawn from the posterior part of the mastoid process to the junction of the inner fourth of the clavicle with the outer three-fourths of the same. Operation.—Place the patient on his back, with his shoulders depressed and his face turned to the opposite side, and make incisions like those employed in Mott’s operation for tying the innominate, that is, make one cut through the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides, 2J or 3 inches in length, along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and terminating half an inch above the sternum, and another cut of the same depth and length above the clavicle, parallel therewith and half an inch therefrom, to meet the termina- tion of the first cut. Carefully raise and divide the sternal root, together with the anterior part of the clavicular root, of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. Reflect the angular flap, so as to bring into view the common sheath of the