ANEURISM. 486 much trouble about the axilla, and generally to widespread suppuration. The cases in which they are justifiable must be very few. Axillary Aneurism.—This is frequently due to traumatism—even the sac- culated variety is in general a sequela rof over-exertion, or of attempts to reduce dislocation (which also occasionally rupture all the coats of the vessel)— but it is also sometimes spontaneous. The loose structure of the surround- ing tissue causes the tumor to grow rapidly to a large, even to a very large, size. When situated high in the vessel, considerable elevation of the shoulder is caused by the mechanical filling of the axillary space.1 Partly in consequence of the loose character of the surrounding tissue, partly from proximity of the heart, this form of aneurism runs its course rapidly. Its natural termination is rupture into the axillary cavity, causing enormous swelling and opening outwards by a slough of the skin; or it may spread along the vessel upwards to become a subclavio-axillary aneurism, and then to burst into the areolar tissue of the neck, or into the pleura. These dangers, and the rapidity of their advent, render energetic treatment imperative. Diet and Rest.—This mode of treatment is unsatisfactory. Some very small number of cases may have been benefited by it, but I find no record of any having been thus cured. Manipulation has not been successful in this form of aneurism; but it may be attempted if the tumor involve also the subclavian, and especially if it be of the left side. A clot, if it were detached from the upper part, might be- come impacted below. The treatment belongs eminently to that sort which might be called, if the expression were allowable, “ hit or miss” (see p. 419). Proximal pressure, that is to say, compression of the third part of the sub- clavian on the first rib, may occasionally succeed, but is very much more likely to fail. Both Mr. Holmes and Mr. Erichsen seem to have persuaded themselves2 that compression of this vessel is not difficult. My own experience is, that in cases of large axillary aneurism raising the shoulder, compression of the subclavian is impossible, save for a few seconds. Syme, in order to effect this object, had to divide the skin and cervical fascia. In Poland’s, and in other cases, an abnormally high course of the vessel permitted such pressure, but these favorable circumstances must, as Mr. Poland himself pointed out,3 be very exceptional. Mr. Holmes speaks of the benefits to be expected from pressure with much more confidence than I can. He is able to cite 5 cases of cure—by Turet, Yanzetti, Cooper Forster, Peatson, and Rizzoli. The third of these was effected in two sittings by the rapid method, with the aid of an anaesthetic, under circumstances unlikely to recur. The treatment in Peatson’s case occupied three months; in Rizzoli’s, apparently, somewhat longer. Nevertheless, unless the position of the clavicle render compression of the subclavian artery evidently impossible, it is the surgeon’s duty to make rea- sonable, but not exaggerated efforts to effect a cure by such means. Unaided fingers can rarely be trusted, but a Cole’s compressor will bestow additional power. This is an instrument shaped like an office seal; it has a round,or,if preferred, a pistol-shaped handle, whence projects a shank or staff, and at the 1 Mr. Spence promulgated the idea that this lifting of the shoulder might also be due to neuro-muscular phenomena, to irritation by the tumor on the nerves of the plexus, producing muscular contraction. He seems to have momentarily lost sight of the fact that the elevators of the shoulder, the trapezius and serratus magnus being respectively supplied by the spinal acces- sory and posterior thoracic nerve, both originating high above the clavicle, are withdrawn from such influence. 2 System of Surgery, vol. iii. p. 555, and Science and Art of Surgery, vol. ii. p. 120. 3 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1871.