INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 688 of wood may be passed beneath the calf of the leg, transversely, and held in the hands of two assistants under the surgeon’s direction, while he himself grasps the knee and ankle, using the leg as a crank by which to make rota- tion of the thigh. The limb is thus in very complete and powerful control, and yet at perfect liberty to be submitted to the desired motions. With the pulleys, manipulation is impossible. Another plan by which the same effect may be secured, consists in placing the patient face downward upon a table, with his thighs hanging at right angles to his trunk, over the edge, and with a folded quilt laid under his pelvis. Seizing the ankle of the dislocated limb with one hand, and placing the palm of the other, or the sole of his foot, in the bend of the knee, the surgeon is able to make the usual flexion, adduc- tion, and extension, together with an amount of traction equal to his own weight. Still more power may be obtained by means of Jarvis’s adjuster, which permits the manipulations to be made as usual, together with any amount of traction which the surgeon may deem desirable. This instrument, on account of the movements which it permits, is far superior to the pulleys, but as it is not in the hands of many surgeons at the present time, and will frequently not be attainable in emergencies, or in remote places, some extemporary sub- stitute is needed. For this purpose it is best not to resort to extension from a fixed point, but to make an extemporaneous adjuster, by which the force can be exerted in just the needed directions, which can be quickly changed as desired. A bar of wood about five feet in length—a bed slat will answer—is to be secured by a notch or hole in one extremity to a large towel or sheet passed about the perineum. This furnishes counter-extension from the pelvis. From the lower part of the thigh, a stout bed-cord, attached by a clove-hitch, passes to the other extremity of the wooden bar, and is attached to a small cleat of wood. By means of twisting the two cords, or, better still, by the Spanish windlass, an enormous degree of traction may be made upon the thigh, while at the same time the limb is under complete control for rotation or other movements. Care must be taken in using either the Jarvis’s or the extemporaneous adjuster, that too great force is not exerted unawares. These mechanical aids are seldom needed in the reduction of this form of luxation, and the pulleys never. Let them be considered obsolete in the management, of these cases. The rotation method offers a more certain and less violent means of reduc- ing hip-dislocations, where the. traction method fails. One cause of difficulty in the latter, is probably the small size of the rent which has been made in the capsular envelope, resisting the return of the large head of the femur into its socket. In such cases, no manipulation will cause it to return until this rent has been enlarged. The idea of a mechanical rending of the capsule need not appal the surgeon. It is an operation free from danger. To accomplish this, the thigh should be flexed until it nearly touches the abdomen, when, the pelvis being steadied by an assistant, the knee is carried forcibly outward until the thigh, still sharply flexed, stands outward at a considerable angle from the body. This causes the neck of the femur to sweep laterally across the posterior and lower part of the capsule, tearing its fibres and enlarging the rent made by the head in its exit. Occasionally it. occurs that this manipulation effects the reduction. Should this chance to occur, it will be discovered, upon extending the limb preparatory to new attempts. After this manoeuvre, the traction method generally will effect reduction with comparative ease by the manipulations already described. When it has been successful, the limb no longer lies over upon the other, inwardly rotated and stiffly resisting all attempts at abduction and complete