145 LACERATED WOUNDS AND RUPTURES OF ARTERIES. the tissues of the limb are likely to be torn and bruised, or disintegrated and infiltrated with blood, to some distance above the breach, as I once found on examining the ragged-looking stump of a forearm that had been stricken almost off by the premature discharge of a cannon. The tissues of this stump appeared to be but slightly injured, away from the wounded surface, until they were cut into, when they were found to be ecchymosed and dis- integrated, as stated above, nearly up to the elbow-joint. The amputation was therefore performed above the elbow, in the continuity of the arm. Hemorrhage from lacerated -wounds that are caused by bayonets, by splinters of wood, by the horns of infuriated animals, or by other means, should in general be restrained by compression until the lacerated vessel itself can be brought into view by making incisions, etc., when it should be tied with carbolized catgut above and below the aperture in its tunics. It should also be divided midway between the two ligatures. When, however, it is impracticable to tie the bleeding vessels at the laceration, the artery from which it springs should be ligated as near the wound as possible. Again, when the parts surrounding the breach are damaged in such a way as to put the preservation of the limb out of the question, or when the peculiar nature or great extent of the injury renders the salvation of the limb impossible, amputation should immediately be performed. Gangrene of the extremities, when caused by the laceration of arteries, demands that recourse should be had to amputation without delay. When gangrene attacks the toes because the popliteal artery is occluded by the recurvation of its torn inner and middle coats, or because it is torn completely across, the operation should be performed at the knee-joint. When the femoral artery is the seat of the laceration, the operation should generally be performed high up in the thigh, but without permitting any delay to occur in either case. When gangrene attacks the fingers because the axillary artery is torn, the limb should forthwith be amputated near the shoulder. Aneurisms caused by the laceration of arteries should in general be treated by laying them freely open, scooping out the clots, finding the orifice, and ligating the artery above and below the opening with carbolized catgut, di- viding the vessel also midway between the two ligatures. In the after-treat- ment, antiseptic dressings and drainage-tubes should be employed. Ruptures of Special Arteries.—Femoral Artery.—The main artery of the lower extremity is rent asunder without external wound much oftener than many suppose. In the following example the common femoral artery was ruptured by a strong blow:— A robust young man, an iron-planer, aged 23, was admitted to hospital, on October 15, with an abrasion of the right groin, and a corresponding swelling of great size which extended upward almost to the umbilicus and downward to the lower third of the thigh. There was no pulsation in the tumor nor in the tibial arteries. He was evidently suffering from extreme loss of blood, being very pallid, and his radial pulse barely perceptible. His injury resulted, half an hour before admission, from being driven by a plane which struck his buttock whilst reversing, and drove him over the “ cheek-piece.” He was so low that no operative procedure was admissible, and early next morning he died. Necroscopy thirty hours after death. The swelling was due to an immense extravasation of blood. The common femoral artery was found com- pletely severed just below Poupart’s ligament; its proximal end was filled with a coni- cal clot; its distal end had the external coat tightly twisted beyond the retracted inner and middle coats. Coagulated blood was found in the sheath of the artery up to the common iliac and down to Hunter’s canal. The femoral vein contained a clot opposite the place of rupture. The adductor longus and pectineus muscles were also torn across. VOL. III.—10