PHENOMENA CONSECUTIVE TO INJURIES OF NERVES. 571 ous system. According to Ranvier, according to Professor Charcot, the motor cell of the anterior cornua of the spinal cord, the axis-cylinder which is thence derived (and which extends, surrounded by myelin, as far as the terminal plate), and finally the muscular fibre, form a continuous whole intimately united, to which the name of neuro-muscular system may be given; the nerve-cell is, through the terminal plate, directly imbedded, as it were, in the muscle-cell. Every degeneration of the axis-cylinder must then inevitably react upon the muscle-cell. We have seen that as early as the seventh day after section of a nerve the destruction of the axis-cylinder is complete; the nerve no longer exists. It is at this moment that the alterations of the muscle begin to appear. The first changes are in the muscular nuclei, which proliferate and form chaplets; the intimate substance of the muscle remains normal, preserving its striated aspect; there is not, as was formerly believed, a granulo-fatty degeneration. But the muscular fasciculus undergoes a diminution in size, a very rapid emaciation. At the same time there occurs a connective-tissue proliferation of the peri-mysium, whence an exaggerated formation of interstitial tissue, which incloses, and, as it were, chokes the muscular fibres. During the second month, when regeneration of the nerve is taking place, these altera- tions disappear, and the muscle returns to the normal state. But if regenera- tion does not occur, the lesions progress indefinitely and lead to irreparable atrophy. At the end of ten or twelve months, the muscular substance is represented only by small and extremely slender fasciculi, which preserve to the last their striation. Interstitial cirrhosis gains the ascendency, there is a rudiment of muscle enveloped by a mass of fibroid connective tissue, some- times loaded with fat vesicles. This deposit of fat may be exaggerated, giving rise to the condition which the Germans call luxuriant lipomatosis, and it can be understood that this excessive development of fat may give to the really atrophied muscle an appearance of normal size. Muscular atrophy is then the inevitable consequence of the section of a nerve—reparable, if the nerve is regenerated, irreparable if there is perma- nent destruction of the nerve trunk. Does it as necessarily result from a simple section as from an irritation of the nerve ? It is known that Brown- Sequard had established a capital distinction between the effects of irritation and those of simple suppression of nerve action. Charcot, who had applied this distinction to the interpretation of the different trophic disturbances, and had accepted without restriction the theory of Brown-Sequard, has recurred to this point in the second edition of his book, and with some reservations. These are rendered necessary by the results furnished by examination of mus- cles after nerve lesions. The experiments of Yulpian, of Neumann, and of Eichhorst, prove that muscular atrophy is constant whenever the continuity of the axis-cylinder is interrupted. The effects of the cessation of nerve- action, then, do not differ here from those of irritation. Is it the same for articular and cutaneous trophic disturbances ? I shall not attempt to decide this delicate point. What it behooves us to remember, is that, clinically, the consequences of simple nerve sections are certainly not the same as those of wounds with irritation. Every one agrees, in regard to this matter, that the observation of Weir Mitchell is absolutely true, namely, that the trophic dis- turbances from nerve-wounds are especially developed in consequence of in- complete sections, of contusions, of punctures—of causes, in a word, which determine an irritation of the nerve—and that a simple division of the nerve- trunk does not, as a rule, entail similar consequences. This leads us to speak of the influence of nerve-sections upon the phenomena described under the name of neuro-paralytic inflammation. But first I will terminate what has reference to the lesions of the muscular system, by saying that I have seen a