596 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF NERVES. and which moreover sends prolongations into the interior of the nerve-trunks between the different fasciculi of which they are constituted. Each fas- ciculus is itself surrounded by another sheath formed of delicate connective- tissue fibres (perineurium of Robin, lamellar sheath of Ranvier), which also sends prolongations into the interior of the fasciculus; finally, the nerve- fibres are surrounded upon all sides by thin connective-tissue fibres. (1) Fibromata of Nerves.—The fibromata of nerves are more frequent than the sarcomata. Foerster and Virchow regard the cases published under this name as cases of neuromata with amyelinic fibres; Lebert grouped together under this name the majority of nerve-tumors. The fibromata are developed at the expense of the connective tissue of the nerve, from either the neuri- lemma, the perineurium, or the interfibrillar tissue, and even the sheath of Schwann and its nuclei may, according to Christol, contribute to the forma- tion of the new fibrous tissue. It was upon this difference of origin that Lebert based his classification of neuromata into (1) interfibrillar, or central neuromata; (2) peripheral neuromata, and (3) mixed neuromata. As a result of inflammation of nerves, there are sometimes found upon their surface, small, circumscribed, fibrous tumors, which are only the traces of a chronic perineuritis. Fibromata of nerves are often solitary, but they may also' constitute the tumors of nerves which have been described under the name of multiple neuromata. Their size also is variable, and they may reach large dimensions. The tumor may be of a composite character. Cystic fibromata have been met with (Smith, Houel, Trelat); Poinsot observed a tumor which included fibrous tissue, fibro-plastic elements, and cystic cavities. Fibromata are some- times observed at the extremities of divided nerves, in the neuromata of amputations, which are generally considered as neuromata with amyelinic fibres. They constitute also a variety, or a stage, of the plexiform neuro- mata—cylindrical fibromata of the nerve-sheaths (R. Marchand). The histology of these tumors is still incomplete, and I shall, therefore, give a summary of" the results obtained by the examination of two varieties of fibroma. Cornil examined a solitary fibro-myxoma of the sciatic nerve, removed by Trelat; in this case the fibrous element predominated, and the new tissue existed solely in the interior of the lamellar sheath ; it formed a thick zone within this, and pushed away the nerve-fibres to the centre of the fasciculus. Each nerve-fibre was surrounded by a new production of connective-tissue fibrils; the sheath of Schwann presented a multiplication of its cellular elements. The medullary substance and the axis-cylinders were preserved intact. Motility and sensibility had been retained by this patient. The neu- rilemma took no part in the formation of the tumor. Cornil calls attention to the point of origin of this tumor in the intrafascicular connective tissue. In the case of a patient whom I have still under observation, and in whom a great number of nerves present tumors, I removed two which had increased a little in size, and had become painful. Their histological examination was made by Yariot, who found that these tumors were formed by the junction of small, distinct tumors, developed, as in the case of Trelat’s patient, in the interior of the lamellar sheath, or of the perineurium, by the proliferation of the intrafascicular tissue. The nerve-fibres were driven back against the wall of the fasciculus, and had preserved their integrity. (2) Sarcomata of Nerves.—Sarcomata of nerves are tolerably rare; their 'existence has been denied by Virchow, but it is established at the present day without contestation.