627 ELONGATION OR STRETCHING OF NERVES. periments before the discovery of elongation, and from a purely anatomical point of view, drew upon the nerve in the axis of the limb, after having divided circularly the other soft parts and the bone, at the point at which he wished to apply the traction. Trombetta, on the contrary, whose experi- ments are recent (1881), made them resemble, as closely as possible, the operation of elongation as practised upon the living subject; this gives special interest to his results, of which I reproduce the most important:— Kilos. Supra-orbital branch, 2.720 Infra-orbital branch, 5.477 Mental branch, 2.492 Fifth cervical branch, 22.820 Sixth cervical branch, 24.134 Kilos. Seventh cervical branch 23.416 Eighth cervical branch and first dorsal, 29.460 Brachial plexus in axilla, 17 to 37 Median nerve, 38.18 Radial nerve, Ulnar nerve, Femoral nerve, Sciatic nerve, Popliteal nerve, Kilos. 27.750 26.500 38 84 52 The results obtained by Gillette for the sciatic nerve agree with the pre- ceding: in 45 elongations practised upon 23 cadavers, at Bicetre, this surgeon 12 times obtained avulsion of the nerve with a force of from 200 to 75 kilo- grammes ; 29 times, rupture with from 165 to 42 kilogrammes, not including one instance in which a softened nerve yielded to a traction of two kilo- grammes, but in which the softening was evident upon simple inspection; finally, in three cases, tractions of 45, 90, and 200 kilogrammes, caused neither avulsion nor laceration of the nerve. From these results, it is seen that rupture during elongation is not to be feared as long as the nerve is a moderately large one, since Blum has demon- strated that it is impossible to employ a force of more than 15 kilogrammes (33 lbs. Av.) in making extension with a grooved director. Gillette recom- mends a force not exceeding 20 kilogrammes (44 lbs.) An attempt has also been made to ascertain what lengthening the nerves may undergo under the influence of traction. The conclusions from the experiments of Yogt upon this subject are, that the nerves of man are but little extensible, and that their extensibility diminishes from the centre to the periphery; according to this author, the extensibility of the nerves is exhausted in certain forced movements; for example, in flexion of the thigh upon the pelvis while the leg is extended. This fact, which has been verified by both myself and Trombetta, has led the latter to propose a new method for the elongation of nerves. Let us now see what are the physiological changes determined by this opera- tion. And first, what elongation of the nerve is necessary in order that these changes shall be produced. Weir Mitchell made experiments upon rabbits, and found that slow elongation, limited to the sixth of the primary length of the nerve, did not change its electric excitability. This excitability dis- appeared much sooner if the elongation was sudden. He adds, that very probably a much less powerful elongation would suffice to withdraw the muscles from the influence of the will, and to hinder the transmission of slight sensory impressions. The extensibility of nerves, however, varies too much in different animals, for the results obtained in one to be applicable to another. We shall successively consider the changes determined by elongation in the excitability, the sensibility, and the motility of the nerves, and Its influence upon the spinal cord and nerve-centres. All experimenters have recognized that direct and reflex excitability of nerves disappears under the influence of strong traction; the majority have, moreover, remarked that this excitability increases if the force used does not exceed a certain limit, fixed by Tarcha- noff at half of the force necessary to cause rupture of the nerve, which seems a little exaggerated. Finally, according to Conrad and Scheving, the sensory fibres lose their excitability before the motor fibres — a very interesting