INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 58 spontaneously when arteries are completely, than when but partially divided. In the latter case the inj ured part of the artery cannot contract in such a way as to lessen the size of the aperture ; but, on the contrary, the contraction of the muscular and elastic fibres involved generally causes the aperture to gape open, and thus when an artery is but partially divided, the bleeding orifice is usually enlarged instead of being lessened by the arterial contractility; and the flow of blood therefore is promoted rather than lessened thereby. Again, when partial division takes place, the injured part of the artery can- not be withdrawn or retracted into the sheath, and thus the external coagu- lum, when formed, is much less likely to have a foothold which will secure it from ejection when the pulse rises after the depression of syncope passes away. Furthermore, when an artery is but partially divided, the formation of an internal coagulum, spontaneously, is impossible. The continuity of the vessel being still preserved in greater or less degree, in inverse proportion to the extent to which the division has been carried, the current of blood in the canal is not retarded or stagnated sufficiently for coagulation to occur. It continues to flow through or past the opening made by the wound in a wave-like stream; and any small clots which might form would be swept away in the current. Hence, too, it sometimes happens that when small arteries, such as the radial, ulnar, and temporal, are partially divided in accidents or attempts at self-destruction, the resulting hemorrhage proves fatal unless stopped by art. In discussing the spontaneous arrest of hemorrhages, it should also he mentioned that the parts external to the wounded artery sometimes furnish valuable assistance to this end. If, for instance, the opening through them be valvular, they may afford an excellent support to the external coagulum. If the track of the wound be narrow and ragged, as well as oblique, a back- ing to the external coagulum that is still better will be furnished. When wounded arteries are plugged by foreign bodies, such as bullets, pieces of equipment, clothing, etc., the primary bleeding is sometimes tho- roughly restrained thereby, as happened in the following instance:— At the Washington Infirmary, August 15, 1861, through the courtesy of Dr. J. W. S. Gouley, I had the opportunity of examining a very instructive preparation of the left common carotid artery and contiguous parts, obtained on the previous day at the autopsy of a soldier who had died of secondary hemorrhage from a gunshot wound of the left side of the face and neck, re- ceived fourteen days before the hemorrhage occurred. The missile was the old or round musket-ball; it struck the lower jaw, well forward, when nearly spent, and was deflected downward, backward, and slightly outward, in such a way as to pass obliquely through the left common carotid artery, and to lodge in the tunics and sheath of that vessel underneath the omo-hyoid muscle, pressing somewhat upon the par vagum, and occluding completely the proximal end of the divided artery. The hemorrhage came on suddenly and without any premonition, two or three days after entering the hospital, and fourteen days after the casualty. The bleeding was very profuse; the patient lost more than a quart of blood, which flowed in a great stream from his mouth. An attempt to tie the common carotid above the omo-hyoid muscle was made, but it had to be abandoned on account of the great profuseness with which blood flowed into the wound of operation, rendering a con- tinuance of the search for the wounded artery impossible. It was believed by all the surgeons present that the patient was now so much exhausted from loss of blood as to make it useless to attempt to tie the common carotid artery below the omo-hyoid muscle ; and death followed the next morning. Moreover, the source of the hemorrhage was not suspected, until the autopsy revealed it. The autopsy showed, among other things, that the dissevered common carotid artery was still occluded, on the side of the wound toward the heart, by the impacted ball; that a false aneurism as large as a filbert and elongated in shape had been formed at the distal extremity and on the inner side of the