699 DISLOCATIONS OP THE HIP. outward to the acetabulum, while the surgeon grasping the ankle made exten- sion, and used the leverage of the leg and thigh to assist reduction. Various authors, as the result of experience or of reasoning, suggested modifications of the methods of Sir Astley Cooper, some of which added greatly to the facility of reduction, and were, in fact, steps toward the manipulation methods. These have been alluded to in detail in the historical account of the subject. It has not been the design of this article to describe minutely all the plans of treatment which have been, and might now be, more or less useful in the absence of modern, perfected methods, but rather to give these methods in their most improved forms, as practised at the present day, and the older and obsolete modes by way of contrast, omitting entirely the description of those intermediate varieties, which were, indeed, a vast improvement upon preceding plans, and which served as useful stepping- stones in the transition stage between the old and the new, but which, never- theless, may now he said to have survived their usefulness. Irregular or Anomalous Dislocations op the Femur.—In rare instances the Y ligament becomes wholly or partly torn, in dislocations of the hip-joint, so that it does not exert its usual traction upon the neck and trochanter, and the limb does not assume the characteristic attitude as to rotation, flexion, or adduction, by which the diagnosis is ordinarily made. I. Supra-spinous dislocation (Bigelow) is a form in which the outer branch of the Y ligament is broken, and the head of the bone is lodged above the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, with the neck lying across the rim of the pelvis, and the trochanter turned backward so as to rotate the shaft externally. Of course the eversion and shortening are very great. There is also some abduction, and the limb as usual is rigidly fixed, partly by the inner, untorn branch of the ligament, and partly because the head of the bone is hooked over the rim of the pelvis. Treatment should be directed toward unhooking the femoral neck from the untorn part of the ligament, by sweeping the knee inward into the adducted position, at the same time rotating the femur outward until the head of the bone comes down upon the dorsum of the ilium, when reduction may be affected as in other dorsal dislocations. II. Everted dorsal dislocations are said by various authors to have occurred. Ordinarily, the backward forms of luxation are accompanied by great inward rotation, or inversion, on account of the tension of the untorn Y ligament holding the trochanter forward as the head of the bone goes hack. In the rare cases here referred to, the trochanter goes backwards with the femoral head, and lies behind it. Such a displacement could only occur where there had been free laceration of the external branch of the ligament, releasing the trochanter from its restraint. The treatment is not materially different from that of the usual dorsal form, except that it must always begin by flexing, adducting, and inverting the thigh, before other manipulations are made. III. Other rare forms occur in which the Y ligament is completely sundered, together with other portions of the capsule. The retaining bands, which usually give distinctive positions to the displaced bone in the various dislocations, are wholly broken away in these cases, and no definite charac- teristics can be assigned them. Luxations of this kind are very rarely seen. Their treatment should be mostly by traction in whatever direction the limb most easily assumes, and with whatever manipulation each case calls for.