18 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIiE. portionately grave. If not properly and promptly treated, death of the ten- don soon takes place, and not infrequently pyaemia is developed. At the best the recovery will be but imperfect, with more or less tendinous adhesion and consequent restriction of movement, and often anchylosis of the affected joints; marked deformity is likely to result in the severe cases, from loss,of substance and cicatricial attachments. Treatment.—The inflammation in the mild cases may generally be controlled by rest (best secured by immobilization of the part) and by pressure. Slightly stimulant applications are believed to he of service, but the tincture of iodine, which is ordinarily used, either does no good or positive harm, in that valu- able time is wasted in its application. In its very commencement, the severer form of tenosynovitis may sometimes he arrested by the application of heat,1 either by fomentations or poultices, or by local depletion, much more often by compression, particularly when made with the elastic bandage, applied not only to the affected part but over a large extent of the limb. Thus used, the rubber bandage is for every reason much to be preferred to digital compres- sion or ligation of the main artery, both of which have been resorted to. Failing by these measures to arrest the disease, as shown by the increase of pain and tension, the affected tendinous sheath should be freely opened; much more imperative is the use of the knife if suppuration has actually taken place, as indicated by aggravation of the local symptoms with an added throbbing and the occurrence of rigors. If one incision does not suffice to arrest the disease, others must he made, and the course of the inflammation must he followed up and suppuration “headed off” if possible. The affected part should he elevated, and hot applications should he continuously em- ployed. If the tendon dies, it should be speedily removed, especially if there is much bleeding from the wound. The constitutional treatment must of course be that which will relieve pain and sustain strength. OpiurA is always indicated, and alcohol is usually demanded sooner or later in other than the mildest cases. Pyaemia, if it develops, must be treated in the usual way. Destructive inflammation of the bones and joints may render amputation necessary. Chronic Tenosynovitis.—The chronic variety of tenosynovitis, which affects much the same tendons as the acute, may he either consecutive to the former, or may be chronic from the start. As its name indicates, it is of long dura- tion, and its symptoms are not severe. But little pain is experienced except when the part is struck, and when spontaneous pain is present it has been observed to be of intermittent character, and, in the majority of cases, in teno- synovitis of the upper extremities. Rarely getting well when left to itself, this form of the disease is very apt to give rise to, or at least to be associated with, inflammation of neighboring bones and joints. There seems to he good reason for believing that in some cases of fungous arthritis, the disease has originated in the synovial sheaths of tendons crossing the joint. Swelling is the especial symptom of this chronic tenosynovitis, following at first the course of the tendon, of elongated shape, changing its position slightly when the tendon is acted upon by muscular contraction, movable from side to side, and, after a time, involving the neighboring parts, which become more or less thoroughly matted together. The synovial sac is filled with fungous, highly vascular -granulations of varying firmness, whence the name fungous tenosynovitis. Sooner or later, spontaneously or as the result of an opening of the sheath, mushroom-like masses are likely to show them- selves externally, when the case may he easily mistaken for one of malignant disease. It occurs most often in the earlier years of mature life, and in men