SURGICAL HEMORRHAGE. 49 But in most cases where venous hemorrhage proves troublesome, it is be- cause there is some undue pressure acting upon the veins above the seat of the hemorrhage, that is, between it and the heart. The loosening of the tour- niquet stops bleeding from the veins of a stump. At the battle of Ball’s Bluff, I saw a soldier having a shot flesh-wound of the left arm, who was much weakened and exsanguinated from a venous hemorrhage that was caused by applying an improvised tourniquet above the wound (it was done by a comrade), and was readily stopped on removing the cause. The late Drs. ISTeill and McClellan, of Philadelphia, were called one night to see a young man who had lost a “ deluge” of blood in bed from return of the bleeding six hours after venesection, and found that the difficulty had pro- ceeded from the tightly retracted sleeve of a woven undershirt, which had not been drawn down into place along with the shirt-sleeve after the vene- section was over. On another occasion, McClellan “was called hack to sup- press a frightful venous hemorrhage,” in a case where he had removed a very large tumor involving one of the breasts of an unmarried woman; and, on opening the dressings, found that the long strips of adhesive plaster, put on to maintain the apposition of the edges, had tightly compressed several large varicose cutaneous veins, above and in front of the wound, i. e., on the cardiac side of it; “ the moment the strips were removed, the hemorrhage ceased.”1 Muscular contractions, whether voluntary or otherwise, favor the occurrence of venous hemorrhage in the limbs, because of the compression they exert on the wounded veins. Venous hemorrhage may also be increased by placing the wounded part in a depending position, whereby the blood gravitates towards the hole in the vein. I have often noticed this fact in amputating the thigh. On lifting up the stump, the hemorrhage from the femoral vein generally ceases. On depressing it again the bleeding may return. Often, when venous hemorrhage occurs in one of the great cavities, it may prove fatal not only by reason of the quantity of blood that is effused, but also because of its confinement in the cavity ; for instance, ivhen a ruptured sinus of the dura mater bleeds, death from compression of the brain not un- frequently follows. (3) Capillary Hemorrhage.—In capillary hemorrhage, the blood discharged is not as bright-red as the arterial, nor yet is it as dark-red as the venous blood; and thus it has a peculiar color of its own. Moreover, it does not issue in distinguishable streams from the affected vessels or parts, but appa- rently oozes out of the bleeding surface. Capillary bleedings are generally small or moderate in extent; sometimes, however, they are so profuse as to endanger and even destroy life. Capillary hemorrhages are often met with on the free surface of mucous membranes; for instance, on that which lines the nasal fossae, the gums, the urethra, etc. The capillaries when wounded, as a rule, do not bleed much, as already indicated. A single gush, or at most a few gushes occur from their open mouths, which are at once shut up by contraction of the muscular fibres in their walls, and then the bleeding is at an end. Sometimes, however, the capillaries when wounded do not contract imme- diately, nor even speedily, and then they may discharge a great' deal of blood before the flow can be arrested. I have seen this happen in amputations and other cutting operations performed in parts that were inflamed ; and examples 1 Principles and Practice of Surgery. By George McClellan, M.D., pp. 194—198. VOL. III.—4