INTERMEDIARY HEMORRHAGE. 263 he had a severe cough, which it seemed almost impossible to relieve or arrest tempo- rarily. On the morning of the 29th, while in conversation, the artery gave way, and death from hemorrhage was almost instantaneous. The accompanying wood-cut (Fig. 450) represents the specimen which was obtained at the autopsy. It consists of the right subclavian, of the inferior part of the right carotid, and of the distal end of the innominate. The commencement of the vertebral and of the superior intercostal are also shown, together with the thyroid axis and transversalis colli. There were slight fibri- nous exudations on either side of the point at which the ligature cut through.1 This patient survived the operation for twelve days. During this period there was no hemorrhage from the original wound. Nevertheless, he died almost instantaneously from a hemorrhage that resulted from the sudden giving way of the ligatured artery. The wood-cut shows that the occluding coagula were very small. But, upon the whole, the manifestations peculiar to the bleeder diathesis were not very striking in this case. It is, however, not improbable that the privations and hardships attending a soldier’s life in the field, by lessening plethora and the tendency to plethoric congestions, had considerably modified the diathesis in his person. Intermediary Hemorrhage. The term intermediary hemorrhage embraces all the effusions of blood from wounds or from wounded bloodvessels which occur in the intermediary period, that is, subsequent to the arrest of the primary bleeding or close of the primary period, on the one hand, and prior to the establishment of suppuration on the fifth or sixth day which marks the beginning of the true secondary pe- riod, on the other hand. In this interval of time, the phenomena of reaction, whether it be simply normal or more or less strongly inflammatory, present themselves, and thus the intermediary period itself becomes distinctly marked or characterized, and distinguished both from that which precedes and from that which follows it. The hemorrhages which occur in this period are, for the most part, products of the more or less violent reaction and excitement of the vascular system that properly belong to this period; wherefore, the division of traumatic hemorrhages into the primary, the intermediary, and the secondary, is not an artificial classification, but is founded on natural distinc- tions or differences of an important character. Even those writers who classify the hemorrhages which occur during the reactionary period with secondary hemorrhages, recognize an essential difference between them, which has been well expressed by the late Dr. George McClellan, who says, while speaking of the bleeding which often presents itself in wounds in the course of three or four days after their infliction: “ This is called by all writers a secondary hemorrhage, but as there is still an ulterior form of bleeding in some classes of wounds, it is best to qualify this by the epithet first form of secondary hemorrhage, or secondary hemorrhage from reaction.”2 But, inasmuch as the pathogenesis of these bleedings is totally different from the pathoge- nesis of the bleedings which occur after suppuration is established, and which are known par excellence as secondary hemorrhages, it is beyond a doubt far preferable to designate them as intermediary hemorrhages. Moreover, the term itself will serve to show in most instances, with precision, not only the period when the bleeding took place, but likewise the nature of the forces concerned in its production. 1 Medical and Surgical History of the War of the Rebellion, First Surgical Volume, p. 540. * Op. cit., p. 187.