109 PUNCTURED WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Immediately after the operation of transfusion, a rigor often appears ; but, in a short time, it passes away. Occasionally, syncope is threatened ; but this sense of faintness, too, quickly vanishes. In cases which have been judiciously selected, and in which the operation has been dexterously per- formed, an improvement in the patient’s condition is soon seen. The pallid lips assume a rosy hue, the pulse regains its volume, and the patient himself acquires a consciousness of returning strength. Transfusion of Milk.—The intra-venous injection of milk is now recognized as a perfectly feasible and legitimate procedure, not only in cases of exhaustion from hemorrhage, but also in disorders which greatly impoverish the blood, such, for instance, as cholera, pernicious anaemia, typhoid fever, etc.; it is very much easier of performance than transfusion of blood, and any one at all familiar with surgical operations may practise it without fear of great diffi- culty or of failure. The instrument required is a glass funnel with a rubber pipe attached to its stem, and ending in a very small bent canula for inser- tion into a vein. The milk should be withdrawn from a healthy cow within a few minutes of its use ; it may be received in a warm pitcher, covered with carbolized gauze, through which it is strained. The median basilic or median cephalic vein is to be opened by a Y-shaped incision ; then the canula is to be placed in the wound, and the milk allowed to flow through it into the vessel, not more than eight ounces being introduced at one time. Transfusion of milk, like transfusion of blood, is commonly followed by a chill, with rapid and marked increment of body-heat; this, however, soon subsides, and great improvement in the patient’s condition at once appears. Wounds of Arteries. In discussing the injuries of bloodvessels I shall first take up the wounds ■of arteries, because they have the most importance. The traumatic lesions to which the arteries are exposed naturally range themselves under the fol- lowing heads:— 1. Punctured Wounds. 2. Contused Wounds. 3. Lacerated Wounds and Ruptures. 4. Gunshot Wounds. 5. Incised Wounds. This classification, while quite devoid of arbitrariness, is very convenient for descriptive purposes, and equally useful for the student and practising surgeon. The wounds of each group are characterized by peculiarities in respect to their phenomena and consequences, which are of practical import- ance, and which, therefore, deserve special mention. Punctured Wounds of Arteries. These wounds, because of their comparative frequency, the difficult pro- blems which their treatment sometimes presents, and their fatality, are of great interest and importance to surgeons. Maisonneuve has shown that an artery may be pierced by a delicate instrument, such as a fine needle, without producing hemorrhage, or any other unfavorable result. But if the vessel be pierced by a larger instrument, such as a tenaculum, disastrous consequences may follow. For example, Guthrie saw twro cases in which the femoral artery was wounded by a tenaculum, and ulceration, followed by hemorrhage,