395 DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. pressing the fluid into the joint or other cavity with which it, perhaps, may still be connected ; hut this will occur as quickly when the artery is at liberty as when it is compressed, and the refilling will be slow and equable, not the sudden rebound of a replenished aneurismal sac. Case YI In the year 1879, a patient was sent to me, by a very excellent provin- cial surgeon, with a supposed popliteal aneurism which had made its appearance after an unusually long walk. By the light of the symptoms above referred to, I made it out to be a synovial cyst communicating with the knee-joint. Both the sensation of something having given way, and the power of emptying the tumor, followed by slow refilling, existed. Cysts of the neck, situated over the carotid, are some of them easy, others difficult, of diagnosis. The ordinary hydrocele of the neck, in its mode of growth and pulsation, in the ease with which it may (unless very large) be lifted from the vessel, and often in its translucency, is quite unlike aneurism. Cysts connected with the thyroid more closely simulate aneurisms in their physical properties; but I have never seen such a tumor which did not rise with the trachea when the patient swallowed; and never a carotid aneurism which did so. Hcematocele of the neck, when it pulsates, is often excessively difficult of diagnosis, especially if it has originated in the rupture of some vein just before it enters the jugular; for such a cyst cannot be lifted up from underlying parts. Nevertheless, the linear character, or at least the non-uniformity of pulsation over the whole mass; its position, generally outside of the usual place of aneurism; the fact that it remains of the same size if the artery be com- pressed below, or, when that is impossible, above; and the fact that pressing the tumor back towards the spine increases the pulsation,1 mark pretty clearly the probable nature of the case. Case VII—In March, 1876, a man, aged 43, came under my care into Charing Cross Hospital, with an inflamed, pulsatile tumor of the neck, situated on a level with and a little outside of the bifurcation of the carotid. The man was among other things a prize-fighter, and had often received blows upon the front of the neck. The tumor had made its first appearance, small and painless, twenty-one months previously. He asserted that six months before he could see it beat more plainly than on his admission. The pulsation was not uniform, being more marked on the inner, and less on the outer part of the tumor; it was increased on pressing the lump backward towards the spine, and then was almost or quite uniform. Compression of the carotid below seemed to one of my colleagues to render the tumor somewhat flaccid; this was to me very doubtful. The part was inflamed and very painful, the skin over it red. In consultation, we agreed to pass in a very fine exploratory trocar; the result was the escape of dark, grumous blood, mixed with what seemed to be decomposed pus ; but the instrument was immediately plugged by shreds, and only a drop or two was obtained. Different opinions were formed: one surgeon thought that the tumor was a consolidated aneurism, now suppurating; one declined to decide; while I believed it to be a suppurating hasmatocele. The man was ill, with very high temperature; and seeing the danger of bipod-poisoning, I determined to take upon myself all risks. Having prepared every- thing for tying the carotid above and below, if necessary, and for compression on Chas- saignac’s tubercle, I opened the sac just enough to admit my forefinger. Detritus of old clots, pus, and purple-brown blood, all mixed together, followed the first incision, but my finger corked the wound, and at that time very little escaped. I broke up all soft and flocculent tissue, but could find no opening as into a vessel. Mr. Hird, at my request, now commanded the artery. I removed my finger and let the ill-odorous, grumous fluid escape, and syringed out the cavity till it was quite clean; a drop or two of bright-colored blood came away. Very slowly and gently the pressure on the carotid 1 A pretty well-marked, but transient, increase in size and tenseness follows such distal com- pression, if the tumor be aneurism.