INJURIES OP BLOODVESSELS. 202 large venous trunks, such as the internal jugular, or the axillary, or the com- mon femoral, are opened in this manner, promptitude in getting complete control of the hemorrhage is a matter of the first importance; and, there- fore, no time should he lost in experimenting with the persulphate or the perchloricle of iron, or other astringent substances. Lacerated Wounds and Ruptures of Veins.—The walls of veins are much thinner and less strong than the walls of arteries; hence, the subcutaneous veins are much more liable to he ruptured by blows than the corresponding arteries. Contusions of the soft parts are very often attended with the lacer- ation or rupture of underlying veins, giving rise to dark discolorations or ecchymoses, and, sometimes, to large sanguinolent collections, which remain liquid for a long time. These bloody tumefactions, or hcematomata, should never be opened by the surgeon unless they suppurate, that is, terminate in ab- scess, or, having become very chronic, cause annoyance by their bulk. While they are still recent, time and the employment of stimulating lotions, in order to hasten absorption, constitute the proper method of cure. Large veins are sometimes tom completely across in open lacerated wounds:— A case of the kind occurred some years ago in the person of a gentleman, under the late Dr. George McClellan’s care. “ His right groin was caught by a large, blunt, iron hook, in a horse-mill, and he was dragged rapidly round the area by it, until a mon- strous rent was torn across, just below Poupart’s ligament, laying bare the femoral vessels and nerves. The artery was completely denuded, and the vein torn across. A prodigious venous hemorrhage ensued.” The artery was taken up, although it did not bleed at the time. The hemorrhage from the vein was restrained by filling the wound with graduated compresses, and binding them down with a thick bandage. “ The result was, that the enormous wound finally healed, and the gentleman eventually got well, although in the mean while the leg mortified and was amputated just below the knee.”1 Dr. McClellan’s remarks on this case are so pertinent that I will quote them : “ Now it is an interesting point to decide whether the ligature around the main artery, which I supposed to be unnecessary and would have opposed, had I been consulted respecting it before the operation, was the cause of the mortification, or whether, as was inferred by some, it was not rather calculated to prevent that unfortunate occurrence. The lat- ter class of my friends considered that the destruction of the great vein at the groin would have caused too great a congestion of venous blood in the parts below, unless the corresponding artery had also been obstructed by the ligature. But other veins, as well as arteries, might have become dilated in the meanwhile, as indeed they must have done to some extent, because the vitality of the whole knee and parts above was preserved.” The recovery of the patient, in this case, shows that the ligation of the ar- tery was good practice; without such a ligation of the femoral artery, the bleeding from the severed femoral vein would not have been controlled by compression applied in the wound. The restraining effect of tying the femo- ral artery upon hemorrhage from the femoral vein is well shown by one of Professor Agnew’s operations for popliteal aneurism, wherein he wounded the femoral vein in passing the thread around the artery; “ the venous hemor- rhage, which for a time was profuse, immediately ceased on tightening the ligature, and did not afterward return.”2 It is not difficult to conceive how ligaturing the main artery of a limb aids in suppressing hemorrhage from the corresponding vein, for it greatly reduces the supply of blood to be returned by the wounded vein, arid arrests the vis a tergo impulse which otherwise would be imparted by the arterial contractions to the circula- 1 Op. cit., p. 171. Foot-note. 2 Op. cit., vol. i., p. 516.