723 INCISED WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 2. In the early stages of a wounded knee-joint, the flexing of the knee and consequent closing of the patellar isthmus by the pressure there, sometimes prevents for a time the spread of the pus and of the inflammation from one cavity to the other. In such cases, by keeping the knee bent, and by thorough antiseptic drainage and injection of the single cavity which is found suppurating, I have been able to prevent the inflammation from spreading to the other cavities, and to obtain a cure with but little trouble. 3. "Whatever cavities are affected, they should generally, as before said, he drained, each from two points, and sometimes from more. In the cavity below the patella, sufficient drainage can generally be procured by placing one tube in front, by the side of the ligamentum patellae, and another on the opposite side of the joint, in front of the hamstring tendons, and just above the junction of the femur with the tibia. If the capsular ligament should prove so tense here as to render difficult the insinuation of a tube, the surgeon may facilitate the procedure by extending the incision backward, close under the hamstring tendon, where the capsule is voluminous and loose. By this plan the lower cavity can generally he well washed out, since the fluid passes diagonally through the joint. It should be borne in mind, how- ever, that the back part of the cavity is divided into two lateral pouches by a synovial fold, which is reflected from the back of the joint, forward, to cover the crucial ligaments. Where this causes any difficulty in complete cleansing, it may be necessary to put a tube into each pouch, near the ham- strings, so that a stream thrown into the front opening may divide, and irrigate each pouch. By effecting the cleansing of all three cavities in this thorough and syste- matic manner, the practical surgeon will find that suppurating knee-joints are freed from most of their dangers. As this is rarely done, a large portion of the patients thus affected die, not at all from the necessities of the case, but from blood-poisoning, due to the wretched insufficiency of the measures employed to free this complex cavity from its mass of putrefying pus. Knowing how dangerous it is to open a healthy knee-joint, the practitioner often has a vague idea that there is equal or greater danger in freely opening one which is suppurating, not considering that he has for practical purposes no longer a .synovial sac, but only an abscess, to deal with, and that the more widely it is opened, the less dangerous it is. Kot comprehending this truth, he proceeds timidly, and with fear and trembling, to inject a little purifying fluid through a single opening into one of the cavities, but fails utterly to disinfect even that one, to say nothing of the other two. Of course he gains nothing, and the patient grows rapidly worse. Thus baffled, the average practitioner has not the courage to make additional openings, or, if he has, he knows not how many of them he should make, nor where he should locate them, and to the shame of surgical literature it must he added that he will find in his text-books no adequate instructions on these vital points. The systematic treatment of incised wounds of the knee-joint should con- form to the above principles, and may he briefly stated as follows:— If seen in its recent condition, before suppuration has been set up, the wound should be opened and disturbed only as much as is strictly necessary for examination and cleansing from foreign bodies, and this preparatory ex- ploration should be done with careful antiseptic precautions. The cleansing being completed, the wound should be closed and dressed antiseptically, ancl all subsequent dressings should be conducted with similar care. If the joint have been exposed to the air widely enough to become contaminated with dirt and foreign bodies, it must be not only freed from such objects, but washed out with some suitable antiseptic fluid, carbolized water of the