INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. numerous in the upper portion, until they merge into the loose, intermuscular, connective tissue of the thigh. There is usually no definite, upper boundary to the bursa, and an injection thrown into the knee-joint of a cadaver may often be made to run up through this loose tissue to Poupart’s ligament. Hence the facility with which pus in the knee-joint will burrow its way upward, and cause vast abscesses in the thigh. We have,1 therefore, in point of fact, three large cavities to consider:— (1) The sub-muscular bursa. (2) The supra-patellar cavity. (3) The infra-patellar cavity. The bursa is sometimes separated completely from the joint, but it is not correct to say that it is ever totally absent from the limb., in such a sense as to exclude the risk of extensive purulent infiltration. When the knee is bent, the patella, with the ligaments on either side, is pressed with great firmness against the front of the femur, closing the narrow isthmus of the sac pretty completely, and effectually preventing the washing and draining of one segment of the synovial sac through the other, or of the bursa through either, while the septum between the joint and the bursa, though often in- complete, prohibits free cleansing of the synovial sac through incisions in the bursa, or of the bursa through the sac. When general suppuration of all the cavities exists, each one must have its own means of drainage. It is for want of appreciating these mechanical facts that surgeons have been so often baffled in attempting to disinfect suppurating knee-joints. As the nervousness of many patients prevents the daily insertion of a syringe-pipe (into openings with raw edges, the washing Fig. 580. 0f the cavities in that way is often difficult. It is, there- fore, better to anesthetize the patient, make all the open- ings at once, and place drainage-tubes in them, which, once in position, receive injections without pain. Each of the three cavities should have at least two openings, so placed that the purifying injection will enter at one side, and, sweeping across the cavity, pass out on the other, thus completely washing away all putrid pus. Dr. Markoe has shown the value of this principle of “ through drainage” in various injuries and diseases, and it is unnecessary to discuss it here.1 The best locations for the introduction of drainage-tubes are eight in number, but it is not generally necessary to use more than six on one patient, that is to say, two tubes for each cavity. The eight points of incision are as follows:— a. One on either side of the bursa; b. One on either side of the supra-patellar, synovial ex- pansion ; c. One on either side of the condyles, where the synovial sac is reflected, about an inch above the semilunar cartilages, and near the posterior part of the joint; d. One on either side of the ligamentum patellse. These positions are shown in the annexed illustration. In making use of these points, the following principles Shows the eight points will guide US'. available for drainage f If the bursa be not affected, the incisions and tubes jofint.SUPPUraUng kDCe" for its cavity may be omitted. 1 American Journal of the Medical Sciences, April, 187S.