515 TREATMENT OP ANEURISMS AT ROOT OP NECK. inward; the dissection already made will have so nearly exposed the artery, that a few touches with a director will lay it sufficiently bare to allow the passage of the needle. The position of the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalene muscle, outside and a good deal in front of the vessel, guards it against much risk of injury, but still it must be carefully avoided. The operator must not mistake the inferior thyroid branch (which is, however, much smaller, and usually at this part external) for the vertebral artery itself.1 Deligation of the Innominate Artery.—If it be intended to tie, not the sub- clavian, but the innominate, or if the former artery be found so diseased as to render deligation hazardous, the same incisions and dissection will suffice for passing a needle round the brachio-cephalic trunk. In most cases, how- ever, it may be necessary to divide the round, sternal origin of the sterno-mas- toid muscle, and in some the outer fibres of the sterno-thyroid. The sur- geon’s finger, passed down the carotid as above described, impinges on the innominate at its bifurcation, the only part which, without removal of bone, is attainable.2 Unless, as sometimes happens, the innominate be shorter, that is, divide lower, than usual, its extreme end can be drawn up into the neck by throwing the head well back. If the respiratory difficulties of the patient prevent this, or a low bifurcation render it ineffectual, a device which I have had more than one occasion to use on the dead subject may be resorted to, unless the carotid is aneurismal or much diseased, namely, to gently grip that vessel in a pair of smooth jawed (non-serrated) forceps, and, by drawing it upward, lift the end of the artery from behind the sterno-clavicular joint. The fascia on each side of the vessel, that is, just below the subclavian, and inside and below the carotid, should be incised or torn to facilitate' the passage of the needle. After tying the artery it will probably be safer, not merely as obviating distal hemorrhage, but for the future course of the aneurism, to tie the carotid also. The vertebral will probably lie behind the aneurismal sac; if not, that vessel also may be secured without enlarging the incision, or indeed adding to the danger of cerebral complication. These operations are in all cases sufficiently arduous to demand from the surgeon all his coolness and skill; but when the aneurism lies over or very close to the part to be ligatured, when the disease displaces the vessel and changes its relations, when anatomical irregularity exists, all the difficulties become enormously enhanced.3 Deligation of the innominate artery, first performed by Valentine Mott, of Hew York, presents us with a ghastly list of deaths, every operation' except one (Smyth, of Hew Orleans) having proved fatal, and by hemorrhage, nev- ertheless, if we examine the events of each case, it is evident that this opera- tion would not be necessarily fatal if a ligature were employed which, by leav- ing all the coats of the vessel entire, could not be followed by bleeding at the site of deligation. Mott’s and Hall’s patients walked about (most imprudently), one on the twenty-third, the other on the third day. If we except Bicker- steth’s case (temporary ligature), and Hutin’s(not aneurismal, but a case of punc- tured wound), we find the patients living not a few hours only, but days, until, namely, that dangerous moment for silk and hemp, the time of separation of 1 In certain cases, the aneurismal sac overlying the vertebral artery renders it inaccessible. 1 Cooper (San Francisco), in a case of large aneurism, removed the upper part of the sternum and a portion of the clavicle ; but when it is considered how frequently in thoracic aneurism part of the sac is formed by these hones, the danger of such a procedure will he evident; Cooper’s patient lived thirty-four days. 3 We find: pleura wounded, one case (Colles) ; severe bleeding from veins under sterno-thyroid, three cases ; abnormal arteries divided, two cases ; abandonment of operation on account of position of sac, four cases ; while in one case (Liston) great difficulty was found in reaching the subclavian, which was supposed to arise from the aorta and to come into the right side of the neck behind the oesophagus.