SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 366 In the preceding table are collected 73 cases, in which—either as a means of cure or to prevent hemorrhage before or after removal of aneurism by an- astomosis, vascular or erectile tumor, fungus or fungus hcematodes, or cirsoid aneurism — the ligature was applied to the common carotid artery. The number of arteries tied was 82, both being operated upon in 9 patients. This does not include 60 additional cases in which this artery was tied for pulsat- ing tumor of the orbit.1 Taking these cases as one group — as vascular growths—it will be seen that of the total of 73, death resulted in 21 instances. Of the 51 patients who recovered, 27 are noted as cured, 10 as improved, 5 as not improved, while 9 are noted as recovered, but either not cured, or with the result, otherwise than as regards life, not mentioned. If these cases are subdivided into three classes, taking those reported as aneurism by anastomosis, vascular growth, and erectile tumor as one class, fungus hcematodes as another, and arterial varix as a third, we shall be better able to arrive at a safe conclusion as to the relative merits of this operation in the several groups of cases. In 59 patients the common carotid was tied on account of aneurism by anastomosis and vascular or erectile tumor. Death resulted in 16 instances. In one of these fatal cases the operation was performed to arrest hemorrhage, and in another both carotids were tied. Of the 43 recoveries, 24 were reported as cures. In two of these cases the cure was not effected until both the com- mon trunks had been tied. One tumor was Jaid open after the artery had been tied, and the actual cautery applied. In another case the artery was tied during the extirpation of the tumor. Seven patients recovered, and were noted as “ improved,” and in the cases of two of these, both common carotids were tied. Three of the patients who recovered are noted as “not improved,” and nine as “recovered,” with no other information as to the result, with the exception of two, who were “ not cured.” In one of the cases noted as a recovery, the operation was required to arrest hemorrhage, and two others were cases of double ligature of the carotids. For fungoid vascular growths 4 cases are given: 2 patients died; 1 was “cured,” after the orbit and surrounding structures had been removed and the wound cauterized; and in one case of double ligature it is merely noted that the patient “ recovered.” Ten cases of arterial varix are reported, with 2 “cures,” 3 “recoveries with improvement” (one a case of double ligature), and one “ recovery without improvement.” In one case which was cured, the varix was extirpated, and in one, which proved fatal, Maisonneuve had previously tied the external carotid without favorable result. The results in the foregoing cases are not sufficiently encouraging to justify the ligature of the common carotid for these lesions. Exceptional cases will, however, occur, in which pressure and other means fail, which may demand even this dangerous procedure. Of the 13 instances in which the external carotid was tied for the lesions heretofore mentioned (the artery of the two sides being ligated in two cases), none proved fatal excepting the operation of Maisonneuve, in which the com- mon carotid was also tied (the sympathetic nerve being included in the ligature by accident). The external carotid alone was tied in 10 patients (the double operation being performed in two instances). All recovered. Busch tied the two trunks: the patient recovered, but was not cured. Yon Bruns did the same operation, and met with a like result. 1 See author’s Essays in Surgical Anatomy and Surgery, p. 127. New York, 1879.