INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 28 be removed by a spatula.” This may be regarded as the typical condition resulting from a wound of a large superficial lymph trunk. Lymphorrhagia may follow wounds of the glands, or may be the result of a surgical opera- tion, such as opening a bubo. The lymphorrhoea following dilatation of the lymphatics will be referred to hereafter. Treatment.—This consists of pressure applied to the peripheral portion of the divided vessels, by the application of a suitable compress, such as a pad of lint soaked in a lotion of carbolic acid (1 in 40) and retained by a bandage. Any mismanagement may readily lead to the formation of a fistula, or ~to a troublesome lymphorrhoea. Lymphangeitis. (Synonyms: Lymphangioitis ; Angeioleucitis.) We may conveniently consider the subject of lymphangeitis under two heads: simple and septic. Simple lymphangeitis (which we may regard as reticular and tubular) is most frequently of traumatic origin, although the idiopathic form occurs occasionally. The traumatic form is of the reticular variety, and although usually developed in the immediate vicinity of an injury, may show itself at some distance from such a lesion. Reticular Lymphangeitis.—This form has a greater tendency to atfect the external than the internal parts of the vessels, and can be most conveniently instanced in such cases as simple paronychia, erythema, or erythema nodosum, this latter being a reticular lymphangeitis with an added lymphatic oedema. Curnow calls attention to this connection between erythema nodosum and lymphangeitis, and instances a case in which there was such extensive effu- sion into the knee-joint that the case was supposed to be one of articular rheumatism. With regard to the form seen in paronychia, which may or may not be due to the introduction of a septic agent, and is frequently met with in anaemic seamstresses, the locality is almost invariably a terminal phalanx. It presents the usual characteristics of pain, heat, redness, and swell- ing—possibly, but not always, running on to suppuration, and that suppura- tion being subcuticular—red lines perhaps indicating the invasion of the superficial ducts, and neighboring glands swelling and becoming painful. The duration is usually very short, and in the earlier stages disinfection of the spot, or, if necessary, incision, with ordinary therapeutical agents and fresh air, soon effects a cure. A variety, called the “ wandering” by Curnow, is occasionally met with, un- associated with any breach of the skin, and due to frequent contact with septic tissues. Usually commencing on the dorsum of the hand, it “extends up- wards by the successive appearance of multiple patches, occasionally but not always connected with wavy lines. Each patch lasts but a few days, and is quickly followed by another. They are extremely painful, and around them is a slight oedema. The corresponding glands are always enlarged and pain- ful, even when there is no secondary implication of the main lymphatic trunk.” I have had occasion to observe this condition since the appearance of the lectures in which the above quotation occurs.1 The superficial inflammation of lymphatics occurring in patches, would seem to correspond with the locality of adjacent anastomoses. This, from the fact of the patches being often unmarked by the wavy lines, may cause the nature of the condition to be overlooked. The deep form of reticular Lancet, April, 1879. Grulstonian Lectures.