CONCUSSION, COMPRESSION, CONTUSION AND CRUSHING OF NERVES. 551 or not by pains. Some authors even report cases of late, grave disturb- ance, without any symptoms having occurred at the time of the injury. Almost constantly, however, when the contusion is violent, it is immediately manifested by a more complex set of symptoms, pain, immediate and very acute, lasting from a few minutes to several hours, accompanied or followed by a numbness of variable duration, and, finally, succeeded by more or less complete paralysis, both of sensation and motion, the onset of which may he delayed until several weeks after the occurrence of the injury. In the latter case, according to Tripier, it will generally be found to he due to inflammation, or to nutritive disturbances, which react in turn upon the nerve centres. Such are the signs of contusions of mixed nerves, which, moreover, are those most frequently affected. If the traumatism affects nerves of general sensation, the clinical picture differs only in the absence of muscular paralysis, but it is then particularly that anaesthesia and analgesia may be seen to exist separ- ately. In regard to the nerves of special sense, they may be directly injured, and there is then present an exaggeration or destruction of their functions; a lesion of the fifth pair would also compromise the functional activity of the nerves of special sense. Finally, death may result from the contusion of cer- tain nerves. Course and Terminations.—The paralysis generally diminishes and disap- pears spontaneously, or in consequence of treatment, unless as the result of a complete crushing of the nerve, concerning which a few words will be said hereafter, or of some complication. Sensations of pricking, and sometimes tolerably acute pains, announce the return of sensibility, which usually pre- cedes that of mol' 1,1 1 ‘ rare. The electric con- The re-establishment of the functions takes place from the proximal towards the distal extremity of the affected members ; the paralysis may continue for a few days, or may be permanent, but generally complete recovery is obtained. The most annoying and the most frequent complication of nerve contusion is neuritis, with the trophic disturbances which are its consequence, and of which the determining cause frequently remains unknown. According to Duchenne de Boulogne, it is due to a deep-seated lesion of the nerves, and is especially to be dreaded when the muscles have lost their electric contrac- tility ; the atrophy will never be marked when electric contractility is pre- served. Muscular atrophy generally begins during the first month following the injury. It manifests itself by deformities of two kinds—some due to the dis- appearance of the contour of the muscles, the others to the action of antago- nistic muscles. This atrophy is studied in the section devoted to nfitritive disturbances secondary to nerve wounds. Crushing of Nerves.—Tripier insists that this term should be reserved for cases in which all the nerve-fibres are affected, and their power of trans- mitting impressions destroyed. More or less acute pain is observed at the moment of injury—pain which may be absent if the disorganization is com- plete from the outset. The only symptom peculiar to crushing is the total abolition of the affected nerve’s power of transmitting impressions, and, in consequence, the complete disappearance of the power of motion and sensation in the territory supplied by the injured nerve. This complete motor and sensory naralysis is not always easily recognized soon after the occurrence of the accident. The cases which may simulate this lesion are those in which traumatic tractility returns voluntary movements.