388 ANEURISM. of very early aneurism are recorded,1 but not one of the patients is described as having been affected by syphilis. In ordinary hospital and civil practice, we find that, while aneurism is undoubtedly less common in females than in males, syphilis offers no such great sexual disparity; nor have I found that prostitutes are peculiarly liable to atheroma or to aneurism—certainly not at all more so than might be expected, seeing that persons of that class are usually somewhat intemperate, and exposed to rough usage from blows, etc. If we examine the records of the London Pathological Society, we find that during the 10 years, from 1871 to 1880 inclusive, 68 cases of aneurism were recorded. Of these— In 23 syphilis is not mentioned, “35 “ is stated to have been absent, “8 “ is stated to have been acquired, 1 patient is said to have had soft chancre, 1 case is mentioned as uncertain. In those of the first class, the history of all illnesses being given, the non- mention of syphilis is significant. The patients are described as having been healthy in 6 cases; as drunkards in 3; the aneurism is ascribed to sprain in 4. In the histories of the second class, drink is recorded in 4 ; acute rheu- matism (3 times in 1 patient) in 3; blows or sprains in 5.' In the case of the patient to whom soft chancre is ascribed, no secondary marks were recorded during life or after death. The one whose infection is called uncertain, was a confirmed drunkard. Of the 8 who are said to have had syphilis, 1 had chancre as a lad and died at 29, no secondary marks being recorded, a drunk- ard with cirrhosis of the liver; 1 had chancre 16 years before, no secondaries recorded ; 1 had scars of buboes, absence of secondaries mentioned; 1 is stated to have had secondary and tertiary symptoms ; 1 is recorded by Dr. Moham- med, in the volume for 1878, as having exhibited in the post-mortem room secondary lesions. Yow I am aware of the little weight that can as a rule be attached to nega- tive evidence; but it can hardly be supposed that in 59 cases out of 68, syphilitic degenerations of internal organs would, if present, be overlooked, save in a single instance. This negative testimony shows, at all events, the absence of positive evidence. Yet it is not my intention to deny the existence of a syphilitic arterial degeneration—indeed it is certain that such a thing exists. Dr. Wilks2 was, I believe, the first to point out that such changes probably take place, but he shows his great pathological insight by expressly stating that, “ If it be true that the bloodvessels are liable to be affected with the syphilitic taint, it will probably be found that the change is not of the athe- romatous kind, but rather of the fibrous character exemplified by the thick- ening of the coats of the vessel, and the proportional diminution of their calibre.” Dr. Clifford Allbutt3 points out that syphilitic arterial thicken- ing is much more rapid than atheroma, and Dr. Moxon4 also notes many points of difference. I must also point to the fact that while atheroma has its favorite seat in the aorta and large vessels, syphilitic arterial disease affects smaller branches, chiefly those not larger than the temporal over the squa- mous bone, or the ulnar in the palm—rarely vessels as big as the radial at the wrist; that it has a marked proclivity for the cerebral branches of the internal carotid; that, unlike atheroma, itdoes not,in the initial stage, enlarge the lumen of the vessel, and at no stage increases its length so as to make it wavy; its first attack is closer to the endothelium, is, in fact, in the deeper layers of that 1 Hutchinson, Path. Trans., 1854; Armitage, ibid., 1858; Syme, Edinburgh Monthly, 1844; Smith, British Medical Journal, vol. i., 1867. 2 Guy’s Hospital Reports, 1863, p- 45. 3 St. George’s Hospital Reports, vol. iii. p. 55. 4 Op. cit.