420 ANEURISM. Compression.—The various methods of employing compression for the cure of aneurism may be conveniently divided into (1) direct compression, that is, upon the tumor itself ; (2) indirect compression, that is, upon the artery above or below, these varieties being termed respectively proximal and distal; (3) general compression, that is, pressure exerted upon the whole limb; and (4) compression by means of flexion. Direct Compression.—Of direct compression I shall say but little here. Heister,1 in 1744, seems to have been the first surgeon who formulated this method, and Guattani,2 the first who had some success, more especially in such aneurisms as occur at the bend of the elbow, a frequent sequel, at that time, of accidents in venesection. Guattani’s method was more particularly by the use of the bandage and compress; Heister, the mechanical tendency of whose mind is still well known, invented various forms of tourniquet, among others a progenitor of our modern “ring-tourniquet.” No doubt some of the per- severing efforts which those surgeons have recorded, would have had better chance of success had they been more moderate. The endeavor entirely to empty and keep empty the sac, or totally to eliminate pulsation, led to various forms of accident, such as rupture and sloughing, and in a number of cases to refusal any longer to submit to treatment. Four cases of cure by this means are recorded by Ciniselli,3 Drunker,4 Holmes,5 and Buckminster Brown.6 Case XI Ciniselli’s case was one rather of wounded carotid than of aneurism; a sponge was applied with a flannel bandage around the neck, and therefore could only have exerted very little pressure, at first for from seven to eight hours, and towards the end for fifteen hours daily. In ninety-seven days, pulsation of the tumor ceased. Case XII Dr. Brunker’s patient, a man aged 32, had been undergoing severe bodily labor, and was admitted into the Infirmary, August 20, 1839, with a rather large popliteal aneurism; he was placed at entire rest, with low diet. “Two days after admission, a piece of dry sponge was placed over the aneurism, and retained in situ by a roller rather loosely applied.” On the 27th of the same month (the bandage does not seem to have been disturbed or renewed in the interval of five days), “ I was greatly surprised to find the tumor much diminished in size, and that no pulsation could be discovered in it.” The effect of a simple sponge-pad placed loosely on such a tumor could have been nothing, even had the bandage been kept up to its original rather loose condition ; the cure—spontaneous, or by rest and diet—happened to coincide, in point of time, with the local application. Case XIII In 1875 Mr. Holmes treated, at St. George’s Hospital, a small subcla- vian aneurism by binding into the supra-clavicular space a hollow India-rubber ball of due size filled with air. Gradual consolidation took place in about eight weeks. Case XIV Dr. Buckminster Brown, of Boston, applied direct pressure to a large femoral aneurism; this at first was effected by weights of from 10 to 24 pounds while the patient was in bed, and afterwards by a pad and belt while he went about and attended to his business. The aneurism was cured in six years, and the man lived nearly six years afterwards, dying ultimately from an independent disease. It is necessary to use great caution in the selection of cases for this plan of treatment; one certainly would not recommend it for aneurisms on parts of a limb where proximal pressure or other means could be employed. In sub- clavian cases, one would in preference choose those cases in which the sac pro- 1 Heister, Dissertatio Med.-Chir. de genuum structura eorumque morbis. 2 Guattani, De externis aneurysmatibus, etc. 3 Annali Universali di Medicina, 1S67, p. 351. 4 British and Foreign Med.-Chirurg. Review, Jan. 1840. 5 Lancet, Feb. 12, 1876. 6 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1875.