14 INJURIES AND DISEASES OE MUSCLES, TENDONS, AND FASCIAL contents, or, if necessary, cut away its investing sac. With antiseptic precautions the chances are that such radical treatment will be attended with but little danger. Malignant Tumors.—The malignant tumors, sarcomata and carcinomata, are often found involving the muscles, the former both primarily and by exten- sion, the latter probably always secondarily, though it is still held by some that true primary cancer of muscle may occur. That the connective-tissue type of malignant growths should spring up and develop in muscle is only what naturally might be expected. Occasional specimens of"mixed fatty, vascular and sarcomatous tumors have been observed. But one form of treat- ment is to be thought of in these cases of malignant growth; thorough removal of the affected parts. Some have even gone so far, recognizing the ready secondary involvement of muscles in close proximity to cancers, as to insist not only upon the propriety but the necessity of the removal of such muscles, even though they may seem to the naked eye to be perfectly healthy. Particularly would they have this rule observed with reference to the pec- toral muscle in carcinoma of the breast. » Parasitic Tumors.—Parasitic tumors are consequent upon the entrance into and development in the muscle of either the echinococcus, the cysticercus, or the trichina. The first of these (echinococcus) has been comparatively sel- dom observed, is ordinarily of slow growth, and causes usually but little dis- turbance and that, simply by its size. At times a chronic myositis, occurring about the parasite, causes its inclusion in a thick-walled sac, and occasionally its presence lights up an acute inflammation which may result in the forma- tion of abscess and in spontaneous discharge. The diagnosis of hydatid in muscle must generally be based upon the recognition of a slowly enlarging cyst with absence of all inflammation, and finally (and this will often be the only evidence of value), the discovery in the removed fluid of the “ booklets.” The cysticerci are much more frequently met with in the muscles, but their presence is quite unlikely to be recognized, since, unless possibly when in large numbers, they produce few or no symptoms, not even a characteristic muscular weakness, and the little swellings they may cause can rarely if ever be detected before death. Of much greater importance are the effects of the entrance into and lodg- ment in the muscle of the trichince. Transported from the alimentary canal either along the blood-currents or by self-progression through the connective tissue, the embryo-parasites soon find their proper place of development in the muscular fibrillse, where they excite an acute myositis, as evidenced by pain, cramps, indurations, tenderness on pressure, and marked impairment of function, and, microscopically, by destruction of the sarcous elements and thickening of the sarcolemma. Even before the entrance of the worms into the muscles, there is experienced a “ muscular lameness,” the cause of which is still uncertain. The severity of these earlier muscular symptoms is directly proportionate to the number of the trichinae, as indeed are all the symptoms of the disease. After having attained their full maturity the parasites be- come 'encapsulated, and a state of chronic myositis succeeds to the acute, its duration and severity being exceedingly variable. Generally, calcareous deposits sooner or later take place in the capsule-walls, and then the little tumors become readily visible to the naked eye. The after-life of these encysted trichinae may be short or long—sometimes even longer than that of the individual in whose tissues they are lodged.