GUNSHOT WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 733 it. The result is that several ounces of comminuted bone and cartilage are imprisoned in the wounded tissues. Suppuration ensues, and the pus, finding no free exit through the nearly closed track of the bullet, burrows in every direction, causing vast abscesses about the hip, and far down among the muscles of the thigh, which are all filled with putrid fluids, and almost in- evitably lead to fatal septicaemia. From these and other causes, nearly all gunshot fractures of the hip-joint are mortal, and science has thus far been unable to deprive them of their terrors. There are four possible courses open to the surgeon:— (1) Amputation at the joint. (2) Excision of the head of the femur. (3) Treatment of the case as one of fracture, without operation. (4) Free opening of the articulation, picking out loose fragments, and using drainage with antiseptics. The experience of the world alone can decide between these courses, and the results of that experience are briefly embodied in the following table:— Table of Operations for Gunshot Fractures of the Hip-joint. Operation. Authorities. Cases. Deaths. Mortality PER CENT. Primary amputation. Otis, Circ. No. 2, Surg. Gen. Office Intermediary amputation. “ “ “ “ Secondary amputation. “ “ “ “ Primary excision. “ “ “ “ Intermediary excision. “ “ “ “ Secondary excision. “ “ “ “ Excision, time not stated. Culbertson’s Prize Essay, p. 41, Trans. Am. Med. Ass., 1876 76 75 99 76 70 92 20 13 65 39 36 92 33 30 91 31 11 85 121 106 89 From these figures it will he seen that almost all cases of gunshot fracture of the hip are fatal, no matter what the operation; but that resection is a little safer than amputation, and that all the secondary operations are safer than the earlier ones. The plan of treatment as a mere fracture, with no opera- tion at all, has nominally better results than amputation or excision, but a close scrutiny into the recorded cases leads me to doubt whether the diagnosis as to the seat of injury has always been correct. In the haste of battle,"many fractures of the trochanter, entirely outside the capsule of the joint, are liable to he set down on the reports as gunshot wounds of the joint itself, and thus vitiate statistical calculations. In my own military service, I collected fourteen cases under the observa- tion of myself and other surgeons, which 'were thus reported, and of the fourteen, four recovered and ten died; but, on a subsequent review of the records, such are the disadvantages of field service, I am unable to say, in a single instance, that the diagnosis had been made in such a way as to pre- clude all doubt. Eight cases are reported by Chisolm, of the Confederate Army, in our late war, as treated conservatively, and all proved fatal. Dr. Otis,1 after the most exhaustive review of the subject ever made up to the time at which he wrote, declared that he was unable to prove that a single patient had recovered, under expectant treatment, from a perfectly diagnosed gunshot fracture of the hip-joint. Otis, therefore, adopted the rule to operate in all cases. His words are:—2 Primary excisions of the head or upper extremity of the femur should be performed in all uncomplicated cases of gunshot fracture of the head or neck. Intermediate ex- cisions are indicated in similar cases where the diagnosis is not made out till late, and also in cases of gunshot fracture of the trochanters with consecutive arthritis. Secondary i Circular No. 2, S. G. O. 1869. 2 Ibid., p. 123.