446 ANEURISM. limited than if the bleeding vessel he in a limb at some distance from the body. In the latter case, if the hemorrhage be not a formidable and rapid gush, we may estimate approximately the size of the arterial wound by watching the nature and amount of the flow. If this be brisk but not vio- lent, we may elect either to apply pressure by pad and bandage, or to cut down on the vessel and tie it again both above and below. If the former course be chosen, the thumb should be pressed firmly just above, and after- wards just below, the wound, and at whichever point pressure most effectu- ally checks the bleeding, there should the pad be thickest. Having then made a graduated compress arranged in this manner, it should be held by an assistant steadily over the seat of hemorrhage while the bandage is firmly applied from the extremity up. A few minutes’ attention will show whether the bleeding is checked. Even if successful, further precautions should be taken. A tourniquet, or better, if dealing with the lower limb, one of the compressors used for the cure of aneurism, should be applied to the artery above, with sufficient force to mitigate the force of the circulation, yet with such moderation as to render the pressure bearable for some hours. Some trustworthy person must be left in charge, who is frequently to examine the dressings, and who, on any appearance of blood, must screw the instrument tighter and send for the surgeon. Unless this recurrent bleeding be very slight, it is generally better not to go on with pressure, but if this be continued, another method of application should be used. The wound may be opened, thoroughly cleansed from all clots, and dried, while, if possible, an assistant compresses the vessel above; then bits of perfectly dry sponge or yarn, not bigger than horse-beans, may be stuffed well home into the bottom of the wound, piece upon piece, until the whole quite full,1 when, by applying a bandage over the whole, very firm pressure can be made. Another plan is to fill the wound with very small shot, pressed well in till the parts around are prominent. The disadvantages of these methods are the proneness to blood poisoning if the foreign bodies have to remain long, and the danger of recurrent hemorrhage if they are re- moved quickly. They act by their direct pressure, and by causing the blood to coagulate in their interstices and around the wound in the vessel. I have never had occasion to use shot in this way, and, should the occasion arise, I should prefer a finer, innocuous powder, such as that of oxide of zinc, or of bismuth, through which blood could hardly percolate, and with which some preservative might be mixed. Any or all of these methods may fail, or it may from the first be deemed better to tie the vessel above and below. The choice must chiefly be guided by the sort and rapidity of the hemorrhage: a-severe bleeding is rarely arrested by mere pressure. The length of time since the operation must also have its influence on our selection : if this be only ten days, I think,it far better to ligature at once, since, unless it be a very deep one, the vessel is very generally easily found, especially if a large part of the wound be still un- healed. The artery above should be commanded by an assistant’s thumb, by a tourniquet, or by an Esmarch cord.2 If an undissolved ligature hang out ot the wound, it affords a sure guide to the vessel; but in truth a guide is hardly needed, because the original wound only reached to the artery, and if with the finger we clear away the clots and the still soft, newly formed tissues, we inust find the vessel at the bottom ;3 but it is not very easy to discover the bleeding 1 In one case, I believed that a certain advantage was obtained by first dropping into the wound three minims of extract of ergot with seven of glycerine. 2 If there be time to apply the flat band and cord, much is gained by permitting a good view of the parts. 3 At least this has always been the case when I have had to perform this operation.