INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. 666 coracoid process, or even a little further forward, where it is plainly visible, or certainly can be felt, through any amount of swelling of the soft parts. The subclavicular dislocation is a rare form in which the head of the bone is found underneath the clavicle, and internal to the coracoid process. The usual symptoms of humeral dislocation are present, as already described, the main differential signs of the anterior form of luxation being the different positions of the head of the bone, as seen or felt through the soft parts. In this form the elbow is often carried slightly backward, as well as outward from the side. Posterior Dislocation of the Humerus.—Backward or subspinous luxa- tions are not often met with. In this form the head of the bone is found to be behind and below its socket, having slipped back upon the scapula below the horizontal ridge, called its spine. In this abnormal position it is readily detected by the hand if not by the eye. The remaining symptoms are those common to all the dislocations of the shoulder. [The most striking symp- tom of this rare form of dislocation is the excessive prominence of the cora- coid process, over which the skin is tightly stretched.] Treatment of Dislocations of the Humerus.—In most cases an anaesthetic will be required, to aid the reduction. The steps of the operation are nearly identical in all the forms. Necessary variations will be obvious in the application of direct force to the head of the bone, to push it toward its socket. For the most part, extension and counter-extension only are invoked, as the essential elements in reduction. So simple and harmless are the trac- tion methods, that they are by far the most frequently employed; but the use of the shaft of the humerus to obtain leverage, and other manipulations some- what resembling those used in luxations of the hip, are advocated by a few surgeons. As in other joints, the principal obstacle to reduction is probably the untorn portion of the capsular ligament, which, in the shoulder, is always at the upper side; but Dr. Hamilton, of Rochester, considers the tension of the pectoralis major and latissimus the chief resisting forces, and undoubtedly the muscles exert more opposition here than in other dislocations, on account of the normally exposed and loose condition of the shoulder-joint. There will thus be seen to be an antagonism between the powerful muscles which draw the bone against the chest, and the strong, upper part of the capsule which is rendered most tense in the downward position of the arm; so that a position which most relaxes the latter will encounter most muscular resistance, and vice versa. Different authorities, therefore, claim advantages for each position, and success can undoubtedly be obtained with either, since the scapula is so loosely connected that ultimately the joint will probably be dragged in the most favorable position, in whatever direction traction be applied. Many times a change of direction is advisable, during the act of making the exten- sion. My own experience, and that of many other operators, leads me to believe that the position with the shaft of the humerus at right angles to the body, is that which gives the greatest facility. This puts certain strong muscles upon the stretch ; but has the obvious advantage of relaxing not only the untorn ligament above, but the powerful deltoid muscle. Description of Methods of Reduction.—The following plans require no me- chanical aids:— First Method.—Let the patient be laid upon his back upon the floor, with suitable pillows and blankets, and then anaesthetized. The surgeon, after removing both shoes, seats himself at the affected side of the patient. Ex- tending the arm to a right angle with the body, the surgeon grasps it firmly with both hands, making counter extension with the ball or heel of one foot