614 INJURIES AND DISEASES OP NERVES. and iii wliicli the mere sight of liquids determined a paroxysm of opistho- tonos. <5 In reference to the period elapsed since the reception of the traumatism, the time of onset of tetanus may vary from a few hours to several weeks; sometimes it occurs only after the cicatrization of the wound. The course of the disease is generally the more rapid as its onset has been more precocious. (3) With regard to the generalization of tetanus, the invasion of the muscles of inspiration is of capital importance as regards prognosis, and it is the pre- cocity of this invasion in the dysphagic form, which constitutes its danger. Those cases must also be noted, in which the spasm remains limited to tris- mus, with or without slight invasion of the lower extremities; these cases belong to the slow form, and consequently are usually benign; but an ex- aggerated confidence is to be guarded against, and it must be remembered that generalization is always possible, and that it has been known to supervene and prove fatal after the contraction had remained for several weeks confined to the jaw. (4) With regard to the duration of tetanus, a rapid form and a slow form have been described, the first being always fatal, and the second always ending in recovery, according to some authors, no matter what be done—a view which seems to be exaggerated, and which will be hereafter discussed in con- nection with prognosis. The slow form, or chronic tetanus—to which variety belong most cases of spontaneous tetanus met with in our climate, and those in which the onset occurs a long time after the injury—runs its course in two months at most. The contraction may invade all the muscles and cause death, sometimes quite suddenly, but more often the termination is favorable, and general- ization does not occur. According to Kussmaul there exists an abortive tetanus, characterized by its long duration, the mildness of the tonic contractions,, their extension to a great number of muscles, and the absence of sudden shocks. The rapid form, which includes acute and hyperacute tetanus, ends most frequently in death in the course of a few hours or a few days. Bardeleben cites the case of a negro under his care, who died from tetanus a quarter of an hour after receiving a wound of the thumb. The onset is generally not far removed from the period of the traumatism; the pharynx and larynx are soon invaded, as well as the respiratory muscles ; and the muscular contrac- tions are from the start permanent, and without complete remissions between the paroxysms, which are very near together. It is in this form that the vio- lence of the contractions may determine muscular ruptures. Termination of Tetanus.—Death is the most frequent termination of teta- nus, especially when traumatic, but it is far from being constant, and cases of cured tetanus abound at the present day in medical literature. A fatal termi- nation may be anticipated from the beginning, when the course of the tetanus is very rapid, and when the first spasms are very violent; death then occurs during the first four or five days of the disease. In cases where the progress of the disease is not so overwhelming, the approach of death is generally announced by the elevated temperature, by the delirium, and by the frequency, smallness, and irregularity of the pulse ; but it -depends especially upon the generalization of the contractions, and in particular upon the invasion of the respiratory muscles, and perhaps of the heart. The most frequent cause of death in tetanus is, in fact, rapid or slow asphyxia. Patients with tetanus may die from pulmonary inflammations (Verneuil)—pneumonia or capillary bronchitis—which cause sudden and considerable elevation of temperature. Death may also be the consequence of the general disturbance of nutrition,