623 SUTURE OF NERVES. upper end from before backwards, and the lower end from behind forwards (Letievant); others do not completely traverse the nerve-trunk, and make the thread come out, either at the lower (Yelaton) or at the middle pai’t of the surface of section (Yulpian). Almost all advise that the threads should enter and come out very near the place of section, in order to obtain a more exact adjustment, and to avoid angular deviation of the two ends. One thread only is usually employed ; two should not be used unless the nerve be very large. (4) The adjustment also should be as exact as possible. It is effected, according to the kind of thread used, either by making a double knot, or by twisting the thread with forceps; or the surgeon may do as Nelaton did, in order to facilitate the removal of the threads—pass them into a Galli’s tube, at the extremity of which they are bent upon themselves; whatever may be the procedure employed, the tension used must be moderate. If the division of the nerve be accompanied by division of the tendons, Tripier recommends, when the threads have been passed, that they should not be tightened until after the completion of the suture of the tendons. The extremities of the nerve once in contact, it remains only to suture the wound of the integument; the threads which unite the ends of the nerve are brought out at one of the angles of the wound, and are fastened with adhesive plaster, as recommended by Letievant, if silver wire has been used. The essential condition of the dressing is to avoid suppuration, and to obtain union by the first intention, at least in the deep part of the wound. It is best then to follow, during the whole operation, the rules of the antiseptic method, and to apply over the wound a Lister dressing after having provided means of drainage, if necessary. Besides these precautions, it is required, in order that union by the first intention should have any chance of success, that the operation should be done before the establishment of suppuration, and that, as we have said above, too prolonged manipulation of the wound should be avoided, and especially bruising of its edges and injuring of the tissues which surround the nerve, in the process of searching for the two ends. To finish the dressing, the limb must, in addition, be immovably fixed in such a position that the threads shall not be pulled upon; and this precaution is particularly important when the nerve has undergone a loss of substance. The best means to maintain the limb in a favorable position is to apply a plaster splint immediately after the operation. When silver wire has been employed for the nerve-suture, the wire must be removed at the end of fifteen days. Gen, in fact, has observed that union is generally complete on the twelfth day; it is true that his experiments were made upon animals. It is difficult to say what is the maximum of separation of the extremi- ties of nerves which permits the suture. Yelaton was able to use it even after having resected a length of six centimetres (2jinches) of the nerve- trunk. If the separation is very great, the operation of nerve-autoplasty with flaps, proposed by Letievant, may be employed. This author advises in these cases to make with a bistoury, in the upper end of the nerve, a button-hole slit, beginning five millimetres (i inch) from its extremity, and going three or four centimetres (1 to 1| inches) above; at the upper part of the slit, in drawing out the bistoury, one of the lips is divided transversely, thus form- ing a flap which is turned back in the direction of the lower end; the same operation is performed upon the lower extremity of the nerve, the flap from which is joined by its freshened surface to the freshened surface of the for- mer, and kept in this position by a point of suture. The results obtained by the author himself are, however, not very encouraging, since in the two cases which he cites he obtained no appreciable result. Finally, the experiments of Gluck, of Berlin, in neuroplasty by transplan- tation of nerves, must be referred to. This author has resected in chickens