INJURIES OF BLOODVESSELS. 322 thereto, three inches in length, through the integuments and deep fascia. The border of the gastrocnemius is to be drawn backward, so as to expose the soleus (Fig. 506). Divide the fibres of the soleus on a director; the artery is now felt pulsating about an inch from the edge of the tibia. Next, divide the pearl-colored deep aponeurosis which covers it, and then relax the muscles by changing the position of the leg. Separate the artery from its vense comites, and press the nerve to the outer side. Pass the needle from without inward, carefully avoiding the veins and the nerve. In the lower third of the leg, the artery descends behind the inner malleolus, running at first parallel to the tendo Achillis, and then midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis. It is quite superficial, and in relation anteriorly with the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, and, posteriorly, with the posterior tibial nerve. On each side of it lies one of the vense comites. Operation.—Having placed the leg on its outer side, and extended the foot, make an incision two inches in length, a finger’s breadth behind the inner edge of the tibia, and parallel to it, through Fig. 507. the skin and superficial fascia. Raise the deep fascia on a grooved director and divide it. Now, turn aside some adipose tissue, and the artery with its vense comites and the posterior tibial nerve will be brought into view (Fig. 507). The sheaths of tendons must he carefully avoided. It is to be observed that sometimes the artery lies anterior to the cutaneous incision above directed. At the inner side of the ankle, the artery may be ligatured by making a curved incision one inch and a half in length, midway between the inner malleolus and the tendo Achillis. Having divided the skin and superficial fascia, the deep fascia must be raised on a grooved director and freely opened. Immediately underneath should be found the artery, together with the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digito- rum muscles on the inner side, and the posterior Ligation of the posterior tibial artery at tibial nerve, together with the tendon of the the lower third of the leg. (sfediiiot.) flexor longus pollicis muscle, on the outer side of the vessel. Separate the artery from its vense comites, etc., and pass the needle around it from without inward, tak- ing care to embrace nothing else. In the lower third of the leg, there are numerous anastomoses formed by large branches of the internal saphenous vein, which in general run trans- versely ; these may be revealed by compressing the trunk of the vein above them, so that injury to them may as much as possible be avoided. Ligation of the Peroneal Artery.—The peroneal artery arises from the posterior tibial, from one to two inches below the inferior border of the popli- teus muscle; it is nearly as large as the anterior tibial artery, and descends obliquely outward to the fibula. It then runs downward along the inner border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into the anterior and posterior peroneal artery. As it descends, however, it diminishes in size so rapidly that, below the middle of the leg, it is too small to require a formal delisration.