PUNCTURED WOUNDS OP ARTERIES. 117 obliterate the injured vessel, the clot soon becomes detached, and the escap- ing blood forms a circumscribed traumatic aneurism. In all cases of diffuse traumatic aneurism, and in many cases of circumscribed traumatic aneurism, there is actually traumatic hemorrhage going on unchecked, but the bleeding is internal and concealed from view instead of being external and exposed to sight. When the aorta is pierced by a sewing-needle or by a sharp fragment of bone that has been swallowed, the discharge of arterial blood from the mouth by vomiting is always a prominent symptom. Consequences.—Punctured wounds involving arteries may be attended with the complications or consecutive phenomena which are common to punctured wounds in general, such as phlogosis, with acute pain and severe irritation, etc. Moreover, they are very fatal. Of the illustrative examples given above, six ended in death and only four in recovery. Of eleven stab- wounds involving the vertebral artery, collected by Kocher, only two termi- nated favorably. Punctured wounds of the femoral and axillary arteries are of not unfrequent occurrence, and often prove fatal. The first bleeding may end in death; or, if it be inadequately treated, it may recur again and again, until it wears out and finally kills the patient by exhaustion. Again, if the blood continue to escape from an artery into the connective tissue while the external wound is closed, in the primary period, there occurs a diffuse trau- matic aneurism, which is only another name for primary arterial hemorrhage taking place internally. If such an inward bleeding occur in the fore part of the neck, the resultant swelling may so compress the larynx and trachea as to cause death by suffocation. If it occur in the loose connective tissue of the armpit or thigh, the extravasated blood may burrow very widely as well as cause great tumefaction, from which there may result a suppurative in- flammation of the infiltrated connective tissue, with putrefactive changes in the effused blood, followed by septicaemia and death. Diffuse traumatic aneurisms are very liable to follow punctured wounds of arteries, and must be reckoned among the most important of their conse- quences. They will be fully discussed in the section on Traumatic Aneurism. Arterio-venous aneurisms sometimes follow punctured wounds which simul- taneously involve arteries and their contiguous veins. They occur most fre- quently at the bend of the elbow from mistakes in bloodletting; but they have also been met with in the neck, thigh, and other regions. They will be fully discussed in the section on Aneurismal Yarix and Varicose Aneurism. Punctured wounds of arteries, when very minute, and not attended with much primary bleeding, are occasionally followed by severe secondary hemor- rhage, from ulceration of the artery at the place of injury, as happened in three instances (two related by Guthrie and one by Durham) that are men- tioned above. There is also a specimen in our Army Medical Museum which illustrates a similar occurrence. It consists of a popliteal artery, from which secondary hemorrhage took place eleven days after it was punctured by a spiculum of bone. The femur was obliquely fractured by a pistol ball, in its lower third, with slight comminution. The artery did not bleed until its coats sloughed at the place of puncture. The hemorrhage was then arrested by tying the femoral, but traumatic gangrene of the limb supervened, and death occurred three days after the operation.1 Treatment.—The course which is most likely to avert the disastrous conse- quences just enumerated, consists of promptly exposing the wounded artery at the place of injury by suitable incisions, and applying two ligatures to it, 1 See Catalogue of the Army Medical Museum, Specimens 4084, 4085.