708 INJURIES OP THE JOINTS. Fig. 57£ Symptoms.—External inspection shows the foot to have gone back, and a little up, from its true position. If the patient be laid horizontally, with the leg upon a plane surface, it will be seen that the tibia is more advanced than usual; it lies in front, over the instep, presenting a great prominence which can hardly be mistaken, unless concealed by great oedema of the tissues in front. The heel, in other words, projects much too far backward, and the foot in front is too short. To the hand, if not to the eye, the prominence of the lower end of the tibia is very perceptible, and the tendo Achillis is drawn backward into a greater curve than its fellow. Treatment.—Keduction may be accomplished by placing the limb in a flexed position, and making traction upon the foot by the hands of assistants, or by the pulleys, while the surgeon pushes forward upon the heel and backward upon the front of the leg. Merely to reduce the luxation, is usually not difficult; to prevent redisplacement, is in nearly every case im- possible. There will be some variation as to the ten- dency of the bone to escape, dependent on the greater Backward dislocation of tarsus, or less approximation^ a single inclined plane of the lower end of the tibia, by reason of the fracture of the posterior lip of the joint. As the fractured portion is out of the reach of any external manipulation, it is not always easy to elicit crepitus, and the surgeon is often obliged to infer the condition from the presence or absence of a tendency to reluxation. Great care in the after-treatment is obligatory in these cases. The limb should be dressed upon a double-inclined plane to relax the gas- trocnemius, and the foot kept at a right angle to the leg, with suitable ban- dages, and with splints of wood, leather, or plaster of Paris, adapted to the shape of the limb in such a way as, by firm pressure, to retain the parts in position. The most efficient application is undoubtedly the plaster-dressing, but it is also one the use of which requires caution, on account of the danger of compressing and stopping the circulation in the limb. The plaster- roller is especially objectionable on this score, since it cannot be relaxed if swelling occurs, without destroying it entirely. The best plan is to use about four layers of Canton flannel or crash towelling, with plaster spread between, wrapping these about the limb from the bend of the knee to the toes, and leaving a line of separation along the front, so that the splint may, at any time, be “ sprung” open and taken off without injuring it for further use. The cloth layers should first be cut to wrap properly about the limb, and, when the dressing is applied, an ordinary roller is used to keep it in place. Merely loosening or tightening this roller controls the tightness of the dress- ing. With this splint, the limb may be examined daily, and still held with all the security which plaster-dressings afford against displacement. The constant tendency to reluxation will have to be met as the ingenuity of the surgeon suggests, by means of various pads and supplementary bandages. At best, success will be indifferent. All hope of permanent retention rests upon the possibility of securing a union of the fractured, posterior rim with the shaft. As perfect coaptation is probably impossible, this seems rarely to occur, and very great permanent deformity is the rule. Still, every effort is to be made in the direction indicated, and greater success will doubtless attend the more extensive use of plaster-dressings than has heretofore been obtained.