WOUNDS OP THE AORTA. 221 tion of the aortic arch, the wounded soldier having lived long enough to be carried across the parade-ground to the post hospital, at Baton Rouge.1 But in the following example, where the abdominal aorta was injured in the late civil war, the patient survived the casualty forty days:— A spldier was wounded, on July 3, 1863, by a conoidal ball, which entered his chest at the right nipple, and lodged. He did badly. About August 1, he rapidly grew worse. A pulsating tumor was discerned in the umbilical region, which steadily grew larger. He sank gradually, and died on August 12, of anaemia. Autopsy—The mis- sile, entering the thorax at the right nipple, passed inward, downward, and backward through the diaphragm, by the side of the aortic sheath, and lodged in the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, half an inch to the right of the median line. Just above the point of lodgment, a large aneurismal sac communicating with the aorta was found ; it was partially emptied, and there was a large quantity of coagulated blood found extra- vasated beneath, that is, external to the peritoneum, on the left side of the spine, amount- ing to almost two pounds. The aorta, elsewhere, was healthy.2 The bullet grazed the sheath of the aorta, in this instance, and its tunics, being weakened by the textural disintegration, gradually yielded until they burst and allowed a traumatic aneurism to form. "Wounds of the great bloodvessels of the trunk are usually passed over cursorily by systematic writers on surgery, and the information concerning them is scattered through theses, monographs, and collections of cases. Guattani3 records the case of a man who survived an incised wound of the arch of the aorta eight years. Pelletan4 * relates the case of a man who lived two months after a puncture of the aorta, near its origin, by a foil. Heil8 details a case in which the patient lived twelve months after receiving a stab in the ascending aorta. T. M. Green, of Macon, Ga.,6 publishes an account he had from Dr. J. B. Wiley—■“ a competent and reliable observer”—of an autopsy held on a man stabbed, a month previously, in the aorta near its origin, with a narrow, blade. In the Journal de Medecine7 is a similar his- tory, of a man who lived six days. Lerouge inserted in Saviard’s Observations Ckirurgicales, which he edited, a similar case, the patient surviving eleven days. Legouest8 quotes a unique instance of recovery from a punctured wound of the aorta, observed by Dr. Heil, of Bamburg, in 1812, the cicatrix having been verified a year subsequently, at the autopsy, after the occurrence of death from pneumonia Demme saw a young Austrian perish from secon- dary hemorrhage four weeks after the reception of a gunshot injury of the descending part of the thoracic aorta. Cases of rupture of the aorta from external violence have been recorded by Morgagni,9 Laurencin, and St. Leger,10 and a specimen of this lesion is preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital.11 There is also a preparation by Professor Theile in the Museum of Pathological Anatomy, at Bern, showing a laceration of the arch of the aorta which was not fatal until several months after the accident. Our Army Medical Museum contains two specimens of gunshot lesion of the abdominal aorta, in one of which the artery is fairly perforated by a pistol-ball.12 M. Legouest13 saw a case of transverse laceration of the left side of the aorta, one-fourth of an inch long, three fingers-breadth above 1 Med. and Surg. Hist, of the War, etc., First Surg. Vol., p. 519. 2 Ibid., Second Surg. Vol., p. 189. 3 Scriptorum Latinorum de Aneurismatibus Collect, ed. Lauth, pag. 178. Argent, 1785. 4 Clinique Chirurgicale, t. iii. p. 241. 6 Henke’s Zeitsclirift, 1837, Bd. ii. S. 459. 6 Southern Med. and Surg. Journal, 1855. 7 Journal de Medecine, t. xlvi. p. 435. 8 Chirurgie d’Arm§e, 2e ed., p. 333. 8 De Sedibus et Causis Morborum, Epist. liii. „10 These de Montpelier (MS.), quoted by Berard. 11 Med. and Surg. History, etc., First Surg. Vol., pp. 519, 527, Foot-notes. 12 Specimens 910, 4085, Sect. I., A. M. M. 13 Op. cit., 2me ed., p. 372.