INJURIES AND SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATICS. 40 In all probability the syphilitic virus is a contagium vivum, and although it has not as yet been definitely determined microscopically whether the bodies seen are germs (micrococci), it would seem, from the manner in which the virus travels in experimental inoculations, that they are so.1 The chain of events after inoculation, seems, in general, macroscopically, to be very analo- gous to that occurring after any inoculation with septic matter, but the action of the poison is specific. After the appearance of the chancre or initial lesion, we find the entire lymphatic system “ showing up,” as it were, the invasion of this peculiar virus. There is a period of latency, the cell prolifer- ation is slow and slight perhaps, but the general infection is entirely due to the lymphatic system. Some time after the inoculation, the period varying greatly, the course by which the poison reaches the neighboring glands may be shown by a cord-like thickening of the ducts. This is distinctly observable on the dorsum penis, or, in the case of the mouth, in ducts leading to the buccal and labial glands ; in the case of the mammae, in those leading to the superficial axillary glands. "With regard to the changes taking place,Von Biesiadecki2 “ found the muscular fibres in such lymphatic vessels enlarged, through the presence of numerous ex- udation cells; the adventitia was contracted, containing only a few of these cells; the vessel was in places plugged by a coagulum, or closed by a thickening and folding of the intima. The immediate vicinity of the lymphatic vessel was but little changed; rarely a few exudation cells appeared between the fat cells.’7 Neighboring glands become slowly afl'ected, a condition never observable before the primary affection, but usually from the eighth to the eleventh day; in a case observed by myself, of a student inoculated from a midwifery case, the supra-condyloid gland was enlarged in seven days, and the axillary glands in fourteen. Baumler, quoting Rindfleisch,3 observes that histologically these glandular swellings represent a hyperplasia of the cellular gland elements, and the chronic induration of the glands is due, not so much to a hardening and enlargement of the reticulum, as to a very uniform, though by no means exu- berant, growth of young cells in all portions of the gland. The involution is effected through fatty metamorphosis and absorption. Under certain circum- stances caseous and calcareous degeneration may take place. In course of time the poison reaches the thoracic duct, and is poured into the bloodvessels, to be speedily followed by a specific fever, with a characteristic eruption. Those structures of the entire system which are essentially lymphoid evince the peculiarities of their invasion. The tonsils enlarge and ulcerate. The posterior cervical glands enlarge, and in many instances the condyloid glands of the elbow; and in the cellular tissue of the viscera, which is largely com- posed of lymphatics, we find the later and more important lesions of syphilis. A portion of the poison circulating in the blood gives rise to the cutaneous syphilides—an effort at elimination; a greater part still continues to travel along the lymphatics, and gives rise to the characteristic glandular and visceral lesions elsewhere described. In the tertiary form of the disease we find no hardening or thickening of the glands, but what has been termed by Collin a “ catarrhal ” affection. Cancer op the Lymphatics. As the whole subject of cancer will be dealt with in the article on Tumors, it is proposed to do little more than allude to the condition in the present place. 1 Some researches by the author, now going on, are not ready for publication. 2 Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. iii. p. 117. Quoted by Baumler. 3 Ziemssen, op. cit., vol. iii. p. 120.