INFLAMMATION OF THE SHEATHS OF TENDONS. 17 out of its proper groove on the posterior surface of the head of the ulna; and the tendon of the long head of the biceps flexor cubiti has been frequently reported as displaced from the bicipital groove. But there is good reason for doubting the actual occurrence of either of these accidents. There can, however, he no question that displacement of the peroneal ten- dons, especially that of the peroneus brevis from its bed behind the external malleolus, does take place, and that not so very seldom. Coming forward upon the malleolus, it can be readily felt, and slight manipulation will suffice to carry it back to its normal place. To retain it there, though, is a matter of much difficulty; of impossibility, indeed, in many if not in most cases. All that can be done is, after replacement, to apply a retentive bandage, pre- ferably immovable or elastic, and keep the parts quiet for a number of weeks until reunion of the tom lateral ligaments or fascial investment shall have taken place, if this can be secured. Similar ease of restitution and difficulty of maintenance have been found to be the rule in the analogous displacement of the latissimus dorsi muscle from the inferior angle of the scapula. Inflammation of the Sheaths of Tendons.—Inflammation of tendinous synovial sheaths (itenosynovitis or thecitis) is frequently met with, and may be either acute or chronic. Almost always, if not always, of traumatic origin, oftentimes the exciting cause is not a single severe bruise or wound, but long- continued slight irritations or tendinous movements, as in various sorts of manual occupations. Acute Tenosynovitis.—In the acute form, not dependent upon an open wound, pain more or less severe is usually the first noticed symptom, such pain being limited to the region of the affected tendon, and aggravated upon movement. Swelling soon appears along the course of the tendon, which is most usually one of the radio-carpal extensors in the forearm, or one of the finger extensors in the neighborhood of the wrist, or one of the peroneals or flexors in close relation with the malleoli—much less frequently one of those crossing the anterior surface of the ankle. Occasionally the long head of the biceps flexor cubiti has been found to be the seat of the disease. Associated with the pain and swelling is the peculiar and characteristic crepitation, which may be both felt and heard, whence the name “ crepitating tenosyno- vitis.” Differing from the sharp grating sound of the crepitus of broken bones, and from the “ compressed bladder, half-filled with air” crackling of emphysema (though Lobstein thought that it was really emphysematous and due to an accumulation of gas in the synovial sheaths), the sound has been likened to that produced by the rustling of silk. This crepitation, due to the rubbing together of the exudation-lined walls of the synovial sac, ordinarily continues in the milder cases not more than a couple of Aveeks, diminishing in proportion as the fibrinous exudation is absorbed. In the severer cases it is likely to disappear earlier, being stopped by the separation of the inflamed v walls by serous or purulent accumulations. These more Adolent inflammations are ordinarily consequent upon severe contusions or open wounds of the sheath, as in amputations of the fingers, through the hand, or through the tarsus, less frequently in amputations of the toes. The symptoms are all strongly marked, the pain especially being very severe. Suppuration early takes place, either limited—there being sometimes two or more separated foci—or diffused, rapidly extending up the sheath and involving the connective-tissue planes of the forearm or leg. Very often there is lighted up destructive inflammation of the contiguous bones and joints, and, as shown by Bryant’s case, even dangerous hemorrhage may be kept up by the presence of the necrosed tendon. The constitutional symptoms are pro-