664 INJURIES OF THE JOINTS. Signs of Dislocation. (1) Flattening and vacuity below the acromion. (2) Head of bone felt in axilla or elsewhere. (3) Elbow held directly or obliquely outward. (4) Hand being capped over sound shoulder, elbow cannot be easily made to touch breast. (5) Rule on outside of arm touches acromion. (6) No true bony crepitus. (7) When reduced, bone remains in position. Signs of Fracture of Neck of Scapula. (1) Flattening and vacuity below acromion. (2) Head of bone and glenoid fragment felt in axilla. (3) Arm hangs nearly vertically. (4) Rule on outside of arm touches acromion. (5) Hand being capped over sound shoulder, and patient under influence of anaes- thetic, elbow can with moderate difficulty be pressed against breast. (6) True bony crepitus. (7) When reduced, parts again become spontaneously displaced. (8) Coracoid process can be moved separately from body of scapula. Signs of Fracture of Glenoid Cavity. Symptoms similar to fracture of neck of scapula. Signs of Fracture of Lower Rim of Glenoid Cavity. All the symptoms of a true dislocation, but the bone slips out and in with slight force. Signs of Fracture of Anatomical Neck of Humerus (not impacted). (1) Generally no displacement and little flattening under acromion. (2) Head of bone not felt in axilla nor in any other abnormal place. (3) Arm hangs nearly vertically. (4) Hand being capped over opposite shoulder, elbow can be pressed against breast. (5) Bony crepitus. (6) If intracapsular, necrosis follows. Signs of Fracture through Tubercles, with Displacement of Lower Fragment inward. (1) Some flattening below acromion, but finger finds head of bone there. (2) Displaced fragment, if felt in axilla, lacks smooth round contour of head of bone. (3) Arm hangs nearly vertically. (4) Hand being capped over sound shoulder, elbow can be pressed against breast. (5) Bony crepitus. Some months after a fracture of the neck or tubercles of the humerus, we occasionally find surprisingly prominent exostoses in or near the axilla, caus- ing the careless observer to fancy that the prominence felt is the dislocated head of the bone. In such a case, the presence of the tuberosity in its proper place beneath the acromion is sufficient to prevent a mistake. A similar growth from a fractured coracoid, neck of scapula, or glenoid cavity, raises similar anxieties, and the question of diagnosis must be settled by a rigid study of the mechanism of the injury, and of all the relations of the parts. Ancient Dislocations of the Shoulder.—It has been stated that disloca- tions of the humerus become hopeless after three months. In some cases, however, these dislocations are reducible at a much later period, and efforts at reduction ought always to be made when the cases are seen within five or