GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2146182xTHE SURGEON'S VADE-MECUM: CONTAINING THE Symptoms, Causes, Diagnosis, Prog7iosis, and Treatment OF Surgical £>&ease& ACCOMPANIED BT ENGRAVINGS TO ILLUSTRATE THE MODERN AND APPROVED METHODS OF OPERATING; ALSO Select Formula of Prescriptions, AND A GLOSSARY OF TERMS. THE SECOND EDITION", GREATLY ENLARGED AND IMPROVED. LONDON: PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, HURST, REES, ORME, AND BROWN; JOHN CALLOW; AND THOMAS UNDERWOOD. 1814.£. Gwnel), Printtr, Little Queen Street, Louder;.TO HENRY CLINE, ESQ. F.R.S. Senior Surgeon to Saint Thomas's Hospital, Lecturer on Anatomy and Surgery, THIS WORK IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED, AS A TESTIMONY OF RESPECT AND ESTEEM, BY HIS OBEDIENT SERVANT, THE AUTHOR,PREFACE. The writer of this small volume, containing a com- pendium of Surgery, was induced to present it to the public, as a companion to the Anatomist'^ and Physician's Vade-Mecum, and it is accord- ingly conducted on the same plan. The arrangement of the diseases is such as is most generally adopted in works on Surgery:—the definition of every disease is first given:—the va- rious causes by which it is produced immediately follow:—the diagnostic and prognostic symptoms precede the cure, which contains the modern and most approved methods of operating, and the best remedies. Throughout the whole, the author has aimed at brevity and perspicuity ; and he trusts the student and young practitioner, for whom it is principally intended, will find he has not been inattentive in selecting the opinions of the most eminent surgeons in Europe. The present edition is considerably enlarged, and Plates are added to illustrate the mode of perform- ing the most important operations.A 4 CONTENTS. INFLAMMATION — — — Page 1 Phlegmonous Inflammation -— — — ib. Erysipelatous Inflammation — — — 5 The Terminations or Consequences of Inflammation — 8 Resolution — — — — 9 Adhesion — — — — ib. Effusion — — — — ib. Scirrhus — —• — — ib. Suppuration and Abscess — — — ib.' Mortification — — — — 13 WOUNDS — — — — — 18 The incised Wound — —■ — ib. Wounds of the Chest — — — 24 Superficial Wounds of the Abdomen — — 2G Wounds of the Stomach — — — 27 of the Intestines -— — — 28 ———- of the Liver — — — 39 - of the Gall-bladder — — — 31 —— of the Spleen, Kidney, and Receptaculum Chyli — — — — ib. of the Urinary Bladder — — 32 —-— of Joints — — — — ib. ■ of the Neck — — — 33 —— of Tendons —< — — 34v CONTENTS. Contused and lacerated Wounds -— Page 2b Punctured Wounds —. — — 38 Poisoned Wounds — — — — 38 Gun-shot Wounds — — — — 46 GENERAL BLEEDING — — — 51 I. In the Fore-aim — — — ib. II. In the Neck — — — — 53 III. In the temporal Artery — — jj, ^ IV. In the Foot — — — — a. Of the morbid Consequences of Blood-letting — 45 I. Inflammation of the Integuments — ib. II. Inflammation of the Vein — — ib. III. Inflammation of the Absorbents — — 55 IV. Inflammation of the subjacent Fascia — 16. V. Wounded Nerve — — — ib. VI. Varicose Aneurism — — — 56 TOPICAL BLEEDING — — — 57 The Application of Leeches — — -— ib. Scarification and Cupping — — — ib. ISSUES — — — — — 58 The Blister-Issue — — — —• ib. The Pea-issue — — — — ib. The Seton — — — — 59 ULCEUS — — — — — 60 The benign or healthy Uker — — ib. I. Local vitiated Ulcers — — — 61 II. Constitutional vitiated Ulcers — — 70 Habitual Ulcer — — — — 80 BURNS AND SCALDS — — Si THE PARONYCHIA, OR WHITLOW — — 85 THE FURUNCULUS, OR BOIL — — SSCONTENTS. ** t'HE PERNIO, OR CHILBLAIN — *»«e 89 THE ANTHRAX, OR CARBUNCLE — — 91 CONTUSIONS AND SPRAINS — — — 93 TUMORS — — — — — 96 Sarcomatous Tumors — — **• Steatomatous Tumors — — Eneysted Tumors — — — — 99 The Glanglion — — — 100 Bronchocele — — — 101 Cancer - - - - - 103 Enlargement of the absorbent Glands — — »*• Aneurism — — The false or diffused Aneurism — — 112 The varicose Aneurism — — 113 Varicose Vein — — —114 Hernia — — — — — ib. Inguinal Hernia — — —* 114 Hernia Congenita — — ~~ 129 Femoral or Crural Hernia — — _ i5. Exomphalos — — — 132 INJURIES TO THE BRAIN FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE — — — — 134 Concussion of the Brain — — Compression of the Brain — — — 13G Consequences of Injuries to the Brain — — 141 Fungus and Hernia Cerebri — — Inflammation of the Brain — — — 142 THE DISEASES OF THE EYE — — 144 Ophthalmia, or Inflammation of the Eye — ib. Gutta Serena, or Amaurosis — — — 151 The Cataract — — — — J 52CONTENTS. Empyema — — ■ Paere 196 Collections of Blood in the Chest 197 fnllppfinns f\f Air 198 H vdrothfirax n , •;'< xfi Pararrntpsis of flip Tfinrnv ib. 199 201 Inffctfnmation « -* ■ * ' L4 UAU14V I* ^^^^ »4. Cancer — — ib. DISEASES OF JOINTS 205 Hydarthrus — ib. Ganglion — 206 Collections of Blood ib. Collections of Matter 207 White Swelling — ib. Cartilaginous and Fungous Substances within the Capsular Ligaments 211 The Hip-Joint Disease 212 Psoas Abscess — 214 DISLOCATIONS — 216 Of the Lower Jaw — ib. Head — 217 Spine — 218 Clavicle — ib. Humerus — 219 ^. \f Radius and Ulna Wrist — 221 Hip — 222 Patella — 224 Tibia — ib. Ancle —* 226CONTENTS. Xl" DISEASES OF BONES — — P3S« 22S Inflammation __»-— — Abscess — — — — — 227 Mortification — — ~~ ~"" 1 Caries of the Spine — —' — — 229 Exostosis — — — -—230 Rachitis — — — — — 231 MoUities Ossium —- — ■ —r — t"5. Fracture — — — — — t5# Of the Bones of the Nose —. —• ~ 232 Lower Jaw — — — Clavicle — — — — 238! Ribs. — — — — — 234 Scapula — -» — — **• Humerus — — — — 235 Radius and Ulna: — — — 23S O* Femoris — — —* t'S. Patella — 2&9 Olecranon — —— 240 Tibia and Fibula — — — tS. Fibula alone- — — — 241 Compound Fracture —• *— — 242 DISEASES OF THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS — — — — 244 Calculus — — — — —" *'s« Stone in the Urethra — — — 253 Eneuresis, or Incontinence of Urine — — 254 Strangury, or Retention of Urine; and Dysuria and Ischuria — — — — 256 Rupture of the Urethra — — — 259 Fistula in Perineo »-* — — — 2 soxnr CONTENTS. 4 Enlargement of the Prostate Gland — Page 261 Gonorrhoea — —■ — — 263 Strictvfre —■ — -— 270 Phymosis — — — — 273 Paraphymosis — — — — 274 Cancer of the Penis — — •— 275 Hydrocele — — — — 276 Varrocele, or Cjrcocele — — — 281 Hernia Humoralis — — — 283 Scirrhus of the Testicle — — — 284 Haematocele — —■ —- — 286 DISEASES ABOUT THE ANUS — — 288 Haemorrhoids, or the Piles — — " — ib. Fistula in Ano — —• —■ — 291 Prolapsus Ani — — — — 293 Condylomatous Excrescences — — 295 Imperforate Anus — —- — — 296 SYPHILIS — — — — — 297 I. Of primary or local Symptoms — — ib. Chancre — — — — — ib. Bubo — — — — — 301 13. Of secondary or constitutional Symptoms — 330 Sore Throat — — — — *&.Q General Treatment of Syphilis — — — 304 Eruption — — — — — 308 Verrucas — — — — — 310 Ulcers — — — — — 311 Ozaena — — — — — ib. Ophthalmia — — — — 312 Tains — — — — 313 AMPUTATION . — — — - 315THE SURGEON'S VADE MECUM. INF T AMMATION. CHARACTER. Increased redness and heat j—painj— swelling, and tensioii. f i. Phlegmonous. Species. "J n. Erysipelatous. PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. SYMPTOMS. Phlegmonous inflammation 'usually comes on with itching and dryness in the affected part; which symptoms are shortly succeeded by increased heat and circulation ; — circumscribed tumefaction ; shooting and throbbing pains. If the inflammation run high, and be of considerable extent, an increased action of the heart and arteries takes place; the pulse becomes full, hard, and quick ; the skin dry and hot ; great thirst arises, and a feverish disposition ensues; the tongue is white ; the urine high-coloured j and the blood, when drawn from a vein, :hibits a glutinous separation upon its surface. K w2 PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. CAUSES. Stimuli, either mechanical, chemical, or nervous; as ex- ternal injuries by bruises, wounds, compression, &c.—irrita- tion produced by the presence of extraneous bodies, of what- ever kind;—the application of cold ;—any cause that determine* an increased or irregular impetus of blood to the part; as violent exercise, certain diseases, an inordinate influx of nervous energy. PROGNOSIS. The prognosis in inflammation is to be drawn from the vio- lence of the symptoms; and from the seat of the inflam- mation. Favourable.—The pain, heat, redness, and other inflamma- tory symptoms, gradually diminishing, and at length altogether ceasing; see the Terminations of Inflammation ;—or the swell- in°- becoming more circumscribed j prominent in the centre j soft and fluctuating; see Suppuration; the constitution at the same time being little affected. Unfavourable.—Violent fever with delirium ;—the inflamma- tory appearances suddenly ceasing; followed by the formation of blisters, discharging a thin ichorous matter; the part be- coming of a livid colour, and losing its sensibility. See Mortifi- .cation- TREATMENT. f I. To remove causes that are obvious and continue to operate. II. To niduce the morbid action of the ves- sels of the part, in. To mitigate the-concomitant fever, should the system have become affected. Indicatimts. ,rHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. s I. The first indication will be fulfilled by attending to the man- ner in which the inflammation was excited. To eflect the re- moval of some causes, an incision will, under certain circum- stances, become necessary; as when the inflammation has pro- ceeded from the presence of any extraneous body. ii. Tht second indication will be answered. 1. By the antiphlogistic diet. S. By rest and a relaxed position. 3. By local bleeding. The applicaton of leeches, cupping, and scarification of the part. The inflamed part itself must not however be wounded by the cupping instrument or leeches; they must be applied on the sound parts as near as convenient to it. 4. By general bleeding:—when the inflammation is so great, or in a part so important, as the eye or testicle, for instance, to render it necessary to check the arterial action in it by lowering that of the whole system, even when there is no fever. 5. By sedative and refrigerant lotions, kept constantly on the part; as the liquor acetatis plumbi dilutus, and the following :— R. Liquoris ammonia? acetatis, Spiritus camphora, aa partes aequalcs. Or, R. Acidi acetici O. j. Spiritus tenuioris O. fs. Misce. Or, R. Ammoniac muriatis §j. Acidi acetici impuri Jir. Aquae pura; § \j. Misce. a «4. PHLEGMONOUS INFLAMMATION. LOTIO PLUMBI ACETATIS. R. Liquoiis plumbi acetatis 33. Spiritus tenuioris 33. AquEE purse O. j. Misrc. This lotion is very extensively employed by those surgeons ■ who approve of the application of lead; LOTIO PLUMBI ACETATIS COMPOSITA. R. Liquoiis plumbi acetatis 3'rj. Aeidi acetici §iv. Spiritus tenuioris Jj. Aquse purse O. j. Misce. This is more discutient and sedative than the former. LOTIO AMMONIA ACETATIS. R. Spiritus rectificati §ji. Liquoiis ammoniae acetatis §v. Misce. 6. By ather cautiously applied so as to produce cold by eva- poration. 7. By cold and sedative cataplasms :—■ CATAPLASM A PLUMBI ACETATIS. R. Liquoiis plumbi acetatis jjfs. Spiritus rectificati Jij. Aquae purse §.\ij. Mica; panis quantum sufiicit. Also R. Liquoiis plumbi acetatis jj. Aquas distillate O. j. Mica- panis quantum suflkit; Fiat cataplasma.5 ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. CUEMon PLl'MBI ACETATIS. R. Crenioris lactis Jj. Liquoris plumbi acetatis 3J. Misce. To be applied as a liniment, or spread upon linen. 8. !>y counter-irritation—such as produced by blisters, rube- facient plasters, and embrocations. lit. The third indication requires :— 1. General bleeding. 2. Purging with the saline purges, as the sulphate of magnesia-, Sulphate of soda, tartrate of potass, sulphate of potass, and tar- tarized soda. 3. Diaphoretics, more especially the pulvis p.ntimonialis with Opium, and the saline sudorifics that are recommended by medi* • fial authors against inflammatory fever. If the pain be very severe, opium must be administered after evacuations have been premised. ERYSIPE LATOUS INFLAMM ATI ON. SYMPTOMS. Roughness, heat, and pain, succeeded by an irregular, but circumscribed, redness of the skin ; at first vivid, afterwards assuming a more dull or dusky hue upon pressure, and again returning to its former colour, when the cause of compression is removed; extending over a large surface, and as it extends often leaving, or abating in, the parts it first occupied.—The part affected swells, but the swelling differs from that in the former species, in being general, diffused, and uniformly smooth ; not consisting iu a sudden and marked elevation of the integu • b 3 iERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 6 ments.—The heat is peculiarly acrid and mordent. If the in- flammation be extensive, the patient becomes affected with fever; the pulse is usually small, hard, and frequent; the tongue at first white, afterwards becoming brown.—After a shorter or longer continuance of the inflammatory symptoms, the redness diminishes, the part becomes yellow, the cuticle falls off in scales ; or vesicles are formed containing a limpid, in some esses a yellowish, fluid. CAUSES. Erysipelatous inflammation may arise from the same causes as the phlegmonous;—it is more liable to attack women and children, and those of an irritable habit, than the plethoric and robust.—Some people are so peculiarly predisposed, that no ac- cident, however slight, fails to induce it; and every inflamma- tory affeetion puts on the erysipelatous form. PROGNOSIS. Favourable.—The inflammation of a vivid red colour, and not extending over a large surface;—the fever, when the con- stitution has become affected, assuming the inflammatory form; the pulse being full, and not rapid ; the tongue white; the strength little impaired. Unfavourable.—The inflamed parts becoming of a dark red or rose colour, brown, or livid;—the inflammation rapidly ex- tending ;— the fever assuming the typhoid form;—the pulse small, hard, and rapid;—the tongue covered with a brown fur;—coma ; -—delirium ;—great prostr ation of strength ;—sudden depression c-f the swelling, succeeded by livid vesications.ERYSIPELATOUS INFLAMMATION. 7 b 4 Judications. < TREATMENT. J. To reduce the inordinate action of tho vessels, and to diminish the heat and other local inflammatory symptoms. II. To moderate the feverish affection of the constitution by means appropriated to the particular form it may assume ; and to obviate the tendency to gangrene, if there be great prostration of strength, by in- creasing the tone of the system in general. The following are the local applications most frequently em- ployed to fulfil the first indication:— The spiritus eamphoras alone, or united with the liquor acetatis plumb i: R. Liquoris acetatis plumbi 3j. Spiritus rectificati Jiv. Aqua? distillate Jyj. Fiat lotio. A dilute solution of the sulphate of zinc : R. Sulphatis zinci jjj. Aquse distillate Jxij. Solve. Lime-water, with the addition of spirit: R. Liquoris calcis Jxij. Spiritus rectificati Jij. fiat lotio. The steam of warm water impregnated with camphire. Emollient fomentations and cataplasms are by some much ied ; by others they are thought prejudicial.S TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. DECOCTUM PRO FOMENTO. R. Abrotoni cxsiccati, Absinthii maritimi cxsiccati, Floriuu anthemidis, siiigulorum Jj. lauri 3ls- Aquae purse O. vj. Bcil a little time, and strain. DECOCTUM MAEVJE COMPOSITUM. R, Malvoe exsiccatx Jj. Florum anthemidis exsiccatorum Jfs. Aquae purse O. j. Boil for a quarter of an hour, and strain. The fomenting flannels should be sprinkled with spirit jnjt before they are applied. Unctuous applications are seldom of service ; yet the ceratum plumbi acetatis, and the unguentum superacetatis plumbi, may be used with advantage. When an effusion of lympb has taken place, absorbent powders are commonly employed as topical applications ; such as starch, .vheat-flour, oatmeal, chalk, or finely powdered litharge: of these the oatmeal is perhaps preferable. ii. The means for fulfilling the second indication are detailed by authors on medical diseases. See Inflammatory Fever, Typhus- Fever, and Erysipelatous Fever, or Erysipelas- Terminations or Consequences of Inflammation. The terminations of inflammation are—resolution,—adhesion, —effusion,—scirrbus,—suppuration,—gangrene.9 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. RESOLUTION. By resolution is meant a gradual subsidence, or going off, of all the inflammatory symptoms; the state and texture of the part remaining entire. ADHESION. Adhesion is when coagulable lymph has been thrown out from the orifices of the inflamed vessels; and by its agglutinating qualities has cemented as it were membranes, or other contiguous parts, together. When adhesion is completed, vessels shoot from the opposite surfaces, through the coagulable lymph, and anastomose, so as to completely organize the lymph, form it into cellular membrane, and at length change its properties till it assimilates with the parts which it unites. EFFUSION. This termination is peculiar to cavities lined with smooth diaphanous membranes.—The fluid effused is various, and de- pends upon the nature of the inflammation, the strength of the inrfamed vessels, and the structure of the part.—It may possess all the intermediate degrees or properties between serum, coagu- lable lymph, and pus. SCIRRHUS. Scirrhus or induration is when the inflammation leaves the part hard and swollen. ' It is a termination of inflammation more peculiar to glandular parts, which lime and stimulating applica- tions will commonly remove. SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. SYMPTOMS. Suppuration is the process of the formation of pus.—When the suppuration is deep seated, its accession is marked by rigors, if the inflammation be considerable;—dull heavy weight of the Ii 5 i10 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. affected part;—by the pain becoming more lancinating, and ac- companied with a peculiar throbbing of the neighbouring arteries. If the suppuration be superficial, it is known:—by fluctua- tion ;—by the swelling becoming gradually more elevated above the surface of the surrounding cuticle ; acquiring a softness to the feel, and showing a tendency to point in one particular place.— If the process be suffered to go on without interruption, the in- teguments become more and more thin, and change to a -whitish or yellowish colour;—they at length lose their firmness, give way, and pus is discharged at the opening. Difference between Pus and Mucus. Pus is a fluid secretion—opaque, of the colour and consistence of cream,—is discovered by the microscope to consist of a num- her of dense globules, swimming in a transparent fluid:—it is heavier than water, with which it will not mix in the heat of the atmosphere ;—it is unirritating to the part which secretes it ; it differs when secerned by malignant ulcers, and takes the I name of sanies, or ichor. Mucus frequently resembles pus in appearance,—it however swims in water,—is more readily soluble by sulphuric acid : they j' are both soluble by caustic alkali j but when water is added to \ the solution, the pus will separate, whilst, on the contrary, mu- j cus will remain. TREATMENT OF SUPPURATION. f i. To expedite the process of suppuration. Indications. J . [u. To evacuate the contained matter. 1. By simple fomentations of warm water or chamomile tea, and I emollient cataplasms of common white bread, or. linseed, or I powdered bran:— CATAPLASM A COMMUNE. Take equal parts of crumb of bread and linseed meal, and forai them into a poultice with boiling milk.TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. 11 Also, Take of finely powdered bran two parts ;—of linseed meal one part; and form them into a poultice, with a sufficient quantity of boiling water. A little oil should be put on the surface, just before it is applied. CATAPLASMA LINT. Stir linseed powder into boiling water, in sufficient quantity to form it of a proper consistency. This poultice is in general use at all the hospitals. A little oil should besmear the surface, just before it is applied. To parts that are highly irritable, accompanied with great tension and pain, the virtues of this poultice may be considerably improved by substituting a decoction of poppy-beads for common water. Should there be great pain and irritation, opium should be given internally; and sedatives applied externally. R. Potassae subcarbonatis 9j. Succi limonis recentis quantum sufficit ad alkali «at»- randum. Misturee canrphorae 3'ix. Syrupi aurantii 3j. Tincturae opii gutt. xx—xl. Fiat haustus hora somni sumendus. Or, R. Pilulae saponis cum opio gr. v. Fiat pilula hora somni capienda. The best sedatives for external use are :— The decoctum pro fomento of the former London Pharmaco- poeia, or the poppy fomentation B 612 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION- - FOMENTUM PAPAVERIS. R. Papaveris somniferi exsiccati Jiv. Aqurepura 16 vj. The poppies are to be bruised, and then boik'd till there only remains a quart after straining. fOMENTUM COM I. Boil half a pound of the fresh leaves of hemlock, or three ounces of the dried herb, in a quart of water, for half an hour, and strain. This is the hemlock fomentation of Guy's Hospital. If the progress of suppuration be extremely slow, and there are marks of local or constitutional debility, the topical use of stimulants is necesary, such as : The common cataplasm, with the addition of a small portion of strained galbanum; or the camphorated palm-oik OLEUM PA.LMM CUM CAMPHORA. R. Camphors Jij. Olei palmoe 16j. o lve. Fomentations, as warm as the patient can bear, often repeated. The emplastruni cumini of the London Pharmacopoeia. The emplastruni ladani compositum of the former London Pharmacopoeia. Dry cupping was recommended by Mr. Hunter. Electricity. The internal administration of Peruvian bark, with a moderate use of wine, and a nutritive diet. R. Decocti cinchona Jvij. Tincturae ejusdem, Syrupi aurantii, aa jjfs. Misec : capiat a?ger cochlcaria tria magna tcr in die,TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. 13 Or, R. Pulveris cinchona: 9ij. cinuamomi coinpositi gr. v. Fiat pulvis tcr die suinetidus. ii. The means of effecting the second indication, now almost sole- ly employed by modern surgeons, is an incision made with a common or abscess lancet. If the tumor be small, the opening • may be free, and the contained matter may at once be evacuated; but if it be of large size, and the constitutional irritation be considerable, the opening should be small, and, the matter eva- cuated very gradually, or at several successive times.—The pro- per period for performing the operation is, as soon as a fluctua- tion can be distinctly perceived, and the tumor shows a tendency to point to a particular place.—The place most advantageous, for the incision is the depending part of the swelling. MORTIFICATION. SYMPTOMS. Excessive, acute, and constant pain; great anxiety; often delirium, followed by a sudden cessation of every inflammatory symptom.—The part before tense now becomes flaccid, of a livid colour, and loses its heat and sensibility.—Vesications are formed, under which are perceived spots of a brownish hue.—The parts acquire a fetid smell, and become black.—If the event prove favourable, the mortified portion becomes completely circum- scribed; a process of ulceration is set up in the contiguous living substance, by which the dead matter is separated, and at length cast off in sloughs.—If, on the contrary, the termination be fatal, the mortification rapidly extends, great constitutional irri- tation arises, the pulse becomes small, rapid, and irregular, 214 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. there is a fixed flush upon the countenance, with great anxiety and prostration of strength, and death soon ensues. CAUSES. Predisposing.—Whatever weakens the powers of the system in general, and of the part in particular; as the debility induced by disease,-great losses of blood.-old age, &c. ^•^.-Inflammation induced by whatever cause ^exter- nal injury, as contusion, pressure, &c. ;-whatever diminishes the vital energy, lodged in the part, to a degree incompat.ble with the performance of its functions; as the sedative operation of cold, certain fevers. PROGNOSIS. Mortification is always to be esteemed the worst termination of inaammation.-The circumstances which lead to a prognose of a favourable event, are-youth and strength of constitute, -the general system little affected by the local disease,-the pulse continuing full,-there being little irritation ;-a disposi- tion to a separation of the sound from the diseased parts ; mark- ed by a white line, somewhat elevated, distinctly bound.ng the latter, about which an oozing of a serous flu.d is observed. TREATMENT. fTo prevent the extension of the mortification, Indications. \ and to promote a separation of the dead parts from the living. a By a liberal use of the Peruvian bark, with a nutritive diet, anA"a sufficient quantity of wine to keep up the tone of the system and of the part, and to excite the necessary degree of 'KZZT**** -tmca*™ fro* **m, ^ •„ gangrene of the toes and feet of old people. Pott.15 TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION. R. Decocti cinchonae Jvjfs. Tincturae ejusdem, Syrupi zingiberis, aa Jfs. Tincturae opii 3j. ad Jfs. Misce : capiat aeger cochlearia iij magna quavta vcl sexta qiiaque hora. Or, R. Extract! cinchonae gr. x. Extracti opii gr. j—v. Fiant pilulae ties, tertia, quarta, vel sexta quaque hora sumendae. 3. In cases of gangrene from local injury, the combination of musk with ammonia. R. Moschi, Ammoniae carbonatis, aa 3fs. Mucilaginis acaciae quantum sufficit. Fiant pilulae quatuor tertia quaque hora sumendae.—Mr. JFhite of Manchester. 4. The local application of tonics and stimulants :— Fomentations of oak bark. DECOCTUM QUERCUS. R. Quevcus corticis contusi Jiv. Aquae purse O. iij. Decoque ad colaturam octarios duos. Let the parts be well fomented with this three times a day, sprinkling camphorated spirit on the cloths, just as they are applied. Lotions of very dilute nitric acid, or muriate of ammonia, or nitrate of potash. LOTIO ACIDI NITRICI. R. Acidi nitrici 3j. Aqua? distillatae 3xvj- Misce.[fi TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION R. Muriatis ammonias Jj. Acidi acetici impuri Jv. Aqua; Jx. Misce. R. Nitratis potassae Jj. Acidi acetici impuri Jv. Aquae jx. Misce. The camphorated spirit.—Oil of turpentine. Fermenting poultiees :— CATAPLASMA BYNES. Malt Poultice. R. Byncs farinee, Cerevisia; spumae, quantum sufficitut fiat cataplasma. This poultice, taken from the Pharmacopoeia of Guy's Hospital, Is gently stimulating, and particularly serviceable in destroying the disagreeable smell from foul spreading ulcers and gangrenous wounds. A somewhat similar poultice is also prepared by stirring into ' an infusion of malt (such as may be readily obtained from the ale or porter brewer) as much oatmeal as is required to make it of a proper thickness, and afterwards adding about a spoonful of yeast. CATAPLASMA CEREVISI/E. Strong- Beer Poultice. This is made by stirring into ale or strong beer grounds-a sufficient quantity of oatmeal or linseed meal. It is an excellent stimulant and antiseptic. It should be re- newed about every six hours, and applied as warm as the parts will bear.TERMINATIONS OF INFLAMMATION* 1? CATAPLASMA FERMENT!*' Ycnsf Poultice. R. Farina: tftj. Ccrevisiae fermenti O. fs. The yeast and meal should be well mixed together, aniV ex- posed to- a gentle heat, until a degree of fermentation take plaee. CATAPLASMA CARBONIS. To about half a pound of the common oatmeal cataplasm, two ounces of wood charcoal, in very fine powder, are to be add-d, and the whole mixed well together. This is also used to destroy the fetid smell of foul ulcers and venereal sores. Carbonic acid gas in every form. The gastric juice of graminivorous animals.—Dr. Harness. - Slight scarifications of the diseased parts are recommended by some, but condemned by most suigeons. The most proper form of ointment, is the ceratnm resins, with the addition of oil of turpentine, which is the warm dressing of the hospitals.18 WOUNDS. By a wound is meant a recent solution of the continuity of tin animal solid, from external violence. C I. Incised.—II. Lacerated. Species. J in. Contused.—iv. Punctured. (. v. Poisoned.—vi. Gun-shot. - THE INCISED WOUND. A wound inflicted by a cutting instrument; and in which there is a simple division of the part, without any, or any con- siderable, loss of substance.—The usual and immediate con- sequences are,—a greater or less retraction of the divided parts, according to the texture of the particular portion of the body which is the seat of the accident; and a discharge of blood pro. portioned in quantity to the size of the injured vessels. PROGRESS OF SPONTANEOUS UNION. By the first intention.—When the edges have separated only to a certain distance, or still remain in apposition, a portion of blood is thrown out from the incised orifices of the arteries, by which the chasm is filled.—The lips of the wound become, tumid and painful, a slight inflammation ensues, under which vessels shoot into the inorganized coagulum—This soon becomes endued with life, and thus a complete union is effected. By granulations.—When, however, from the nature of the part, or from other causes, the edges have retracted to a consider- able extent, union by the first intention is prevented from taking place; suppuration supervenes; pus is formed; granulations arise, and, increasing, fill up the cavity; and, having attained the surface, by a power inherent in them, they contract towards19 THE INCISED WOUND. the centre of the wound, cicatrization commences, processes of skin shoot from the surrounding edges, and extending, at length completely enclose the newly-formed parts. The new skin differs from the old skin in some measure, both in its pro- perties and durability. PROGNOSIS. The prognosis will chiefly depend upon the situation (see wounds of the different parts of the body), and the extent of the wound. Unfavourable circumstances are—great irritability of constitu- tion ;—the constitution of the patient impaired by age, or in- ebriety;—debility, however induced;—the division of large ar- teries, or of numerous absorbent vessels;—the firm texture of the part favouring a considerable retraction of the edges;—the presence of certain extraneous bodies, which cannot be readily removed;—too great inflammation, when sphacelus is likely to ensue;—deficient inflammation, when the progress of union is retarded, or entirely suspended. TREATMENT. I. To put a stop to the haemorrhage, li. To remove any extraneous bodies that may happen to be present, in. To effect an union by the first intention; or, if that be impracticable, to pro- mote the formation of pus. i- A haemorrhage from a small vessel will often spontaneous- ly stop, and various theories have been started to account for this. .Some have supposed that it was effected solely by the contraction of the divided vessel, whilst others have attributed20 THE INCISED WOUND. it >to coagula formed in the surrounding cellular membrane, which stopped the flow of blood, till the vessel closed by adhe- sive inflammation. A new theory has been proposed by Dr. Jones, and supported by him with a series of experiments : it is as follows: It appears that an artery, when divided, instantly pours out its contents, and, contracting a little, forcibly retracts itself within its investing sheath, from which it tears itself, leaving the inner surface of it rough and jagged, by lacerating or stretching the cellular fibres which united them together Through this canal of sheath, left by the retracted artery, th« blood escapes, entangling itself in its torn and uneven surface, and, adhering to it, lays the foundation of. a coagulum at the mouth of the artery, and in the sheath, which, gradually in- creasing, fills up its circumference and stops the bleeding. This process is of course assisted by any languor of the circulation, induced by the loss of blood. The mouth of the vessel thus obstructed, the blood within it ceases to flow, and forms also a slight conical coagulum, which adheres by its base to the internal coat of the vessel, and is quite distinct from the external coagu- lum above mentioned. The vasa vasorum of the divided sur- face becoming slightly inflamed, now pour out coagulable lymph, which fills up the mouth of the vessel, and closely uniting with its internal, adheres to both the internal and external coagula, and thus firmly and permanently closes the wound. The coagula are quickly absorbed, and the vessel itself degenerates into a li- gamentous substance. When an artery is only wounded, the blood rushes into the cel- lular membrane and into the sheath, which it distends, and forces the opening in it from its relative situation with that of the artery, which slips under it. The blood tl.cn coagulating within the- sheath, is thus bound over the wound in the artery, and thaTHE INCISED WOUND. 21 kaanorrliage is stopped. The vessel is then cither obliterated, of the wound completely heals, according to the extent and direc- tion of the injury done to it. A haanorrhage may be stopped by simple pressure with the finger, compress, or bandage, if the Wound be slight, or the hseniorrhage trifling; hut when a considerable artery has been divided, and the effusion of blood is copious, by the application of tiie tourniquet, in situations where its use is admissible, and by afterwards securing the divided vessel with a ligature. In the application of the tourniquet, a small linen compress or cushion is to be placed over the course of the bleeding vessel, in the most eligible situation above the wound (see Amputation, where the proper positions for its application are pointed outV and secured by means of a roller passed two or three times around the limb.—The instrument is now to be applied with its handle in a position opposite to the compress upon the vessel, and rendered firm by the strap to which it is affixed; after which, by turning the handle, and thereby tightening tlve couipress, the hemorrhage will be restrained. The strap of the tourniquet is eommonly fastened by a buckle; which in some instances has broken, and endangered and even sacrificed the life of the patient: so melancholy an event ought not to be left to chance : the strap is more safely secured by being tied; and is recommended to be done so by some of the most eminent surgeons. The next, object is to secure the bleeding vessel j for which purpose two modes are practised : 1. by means of the tenaculum 2. by means of the crooked needle. The former is now generally preferred. The tenaculum is a curved hook, the point of which is to be passed through the coats of the divided vessel, which being pulled out beyond the surface of the wound, a ligature, com- posed of threads proportioned in number to the sine of the artery,22 THE IKCISED WOUND. previously waxed, and loosely slipped over the instrument in w manner of a ring, is to be drawn by an assistant over its po.nl, until it encircle the extremity of the vessel, when its ends are to be gradually, yet firmly, drawn, so that the sides of the latter may be effectually compressed. It is then to be secured by • •econd knot, one thread of the ligature should be cut off, within a quarter of an inch of the vessel, and the other is to bo left hanging from the wound: when both the threads are left, too much irritation is frequently produced, especially where it is necessary to take up many vessels; and the ends being cut off at a proper distance, are to be suffered to hang from the wound. When, however, from the depth of the wound, or from the artery having retracted beyond the reach of the tenaculum, there is a necessity for using the crooked needle; this armed with a proportionate ligature is to be introduced at about a quarter of an inch from the situation of the vessel, to be carried under it, and brought out at the same distance on the opposite side ; and this being repeated, a knot is to be made as above directed. A constant oozing sometimes takes place from the surface of a wound, either owing to a relaxed state of the part, as indi- cated by a general relaxation and debility of habit, or from too plethoric* State of constitution.—Iu the former case astringents and balsamics have been successfully employed ; such asterebinthiua, —alkohol,—myrrh,—tinctura benzoes composita,—powdered myrrh,—galbanum,—gum acacia—In the latter—bleeding,— purging, &c. 11. The second indication is effected either by the forceps or probe, according to the size or situation of the extraneous bodies ; or more effectually by careful ablution with a sponge and warm water, or by the us« of the syringe.THE INCISED WOUND. in. Union by the first intention is to be effected by drawing the divided parts closely into contact; and retaining them in that situ- ation by means adapted to the extent and situation of the wound. If the wound be small, or however extensive it may be, pro- vided it be superficial only,—adhesive straps are the most proper application for this purpose.—Their number should be in pro- portion to the extent of the wound ; their breadth about an inch and an half; and in applying them, one end is to be fastened at a moderate distance from the edge on one side, and while the union of the parts is preserved by an assistant, the other is to be conducted over to the opposite, and being drawn tight, is to be affixed to the integuments by pressure with the warm hand.—A small aperture should be left between the straps, in the most de- pending part of the wound, for the evacuation of any matter which may happen to form. Where the wound is of considerable depth, or where the edges have much retracted, as also more especially in wounds into cavitks,-into the joints,-in wounds of the face and neck, -in all triangular wounds,-alld in transverse wounds of mus- cles,-the use of the interrupted suture may sometimes be ne- cessary.-In making this, the fewer the number of stitches, in general, the more speedy and effectual the union—Each needle with an appropriate ligature attached to it, is to be introduced a! advance from the edge, equal to half the depth of the wound • and being carried to near the bottom, should be drawn out at a corresponding point on the opposite side.-The threads of each needle are to be cut successively of an equal and moderate length j but not secured until the whole have been passed—Adhesive •traps should now be applied between the stitches, in the man- ner above described ; and the whole covered with a compress of bnt, and a loose roller.24 WOUHpS OF THE CHEST. Should pain, tension, and inflammation, succeed the applies* tion of ligatures, recourse must be had to emollient poultice? and fomentations,—topical bleeding, or refrigerant applications, as the dilute liquor of acetate of lead ;—and if these be ineffec- tual, the ligatures should be removed. Few wounds, in the improved practice of surgery, require to be united by suture; the adhesive straps are generally found equally effectual, and have the advantage of not creating irrita- tion. To these, bandages and compresses properly applied yield a very essential assistance, and must not be omitted. When union by the first intention is impracticable, suppura- tion must be promoted by appropriate means.—See Contused Wounds, and Abscess. WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. Some authors divide wounds of the chest into four species :— a'division into two will, however, be quite sufficient. {1. Where the wound penetrates the cavity wiUi- out injuring the viscera. ii. Where the viscera are wounded. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. Of the first specks.—Extreme anxiety and difficulty of breath- ing;—at each inspiration the lung protrudes through the wound- ed part;—great irritation at the larynx;—cough;—and the pa- tient, upon attempting to lie down, feels a sense of suffocation. Of the second species.—Blood is coughed up of a liorid red colour, frothy and mixed with air;—great difficulty of breathing; —in inspiration, air is heard to issue from the external wound with a hissing noise, and to rush in with a similar sound during expiration;—emphysema very generally takes place, first begin- ning in the cellular membrane of the thorax, and often spread - ing to a great extent.25 WOUNDS OF THE CHEST. PROGNOSIS. Ill all wounds of the chest the prognosis will be unfavourable. The first species, however, is not to be esteemed a very dan- gerous wound, as numerous instances have occurred in which recovery was speedy and perfect.—The great sources of danger are, inflammation attacking contiguous vital parts, and matter or blood collecting in the cavity of the thorax. In the second species it will be extremely unfavourable; and generally fatal.—Circumstances especially indicating danger are supervening inflammation;—abscess and hectic fever; marked by rigors, colliquative sweats, diarrhoea, &c—Wounds inflicted in the perieardium, the large vessels, or the heart itself, will always be fatal.—Excessive haemorrhage ;— the patient being the subject of visceral disease, more especially of the organ wounded. —The habit otherwise depraved. TREATMENT. Of the Jir.it species.—Should the hamiorrhage be considerable, it is most likely to proceed from a divided intercostal artery ; to secure which, Mr. Latta recommends a free dilatation of the wound, and the application of a ligature. Long-continued pres- sure with the finger upon the bleeding orifice has often been suf- ficient. The wound is afterwards to be united by sutuvc ; in making which, care is to be taken that the ligatures pass through the in- teguments and muscular substance only, without penetrating the pleura. Should inflammation supervene, or blood be accumulated ii' the cavity of the chest, the treatment will be that applicable to the second species.26 SUPERFICIAL WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Of tlie second species.—After the suppression of the haemor- rhage, the chief object is to prevent inflammation supervening, —by copions and repeated bleedings,—purging,—a strict anti- phlogistic regimen, and other means recommended for the treat- ment of inflammation.—See Inflammation. The union of the wound should not at first be attempted ; but being simply covered with a compress of lint, the patient should be laid in such a position that it may be in the most depend- ent part of the thorax.—Any blood which would otherwise be collected in the cavity of the chest will thus be evacuated at the external wound.—After the expiration of twelve hours it may be closed as above directed. Should an accumulation of blood or matter take place in a few days after the healing of the external wound, which is not an unfrequent circumstance, and is marked by—extreme diffi- culty of breathing,—sense of weight and immense oppression at the chest,—purple flush of the countenance,—difficulty of lying upon the opposite side,—the operation for empyema should be performed, and the collected fluid evacuated.—Sec Empyema. If emphysema be present, small punctures should be made at different places in the tumefied part. SUPERFICIAL WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. Wounds in which the integuments of the abdomen have been divided without injury to the contained viscera. They are dangerous, or not, in proportion to their extent;— small ones are seldom fatal, unless certain adverse circumstances of constitution be present.—See Incised Wounds.27 WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. TREATMENT. After suppression of the liEernorrhage by the usual means, union by the first intention should be always attempted, and where there is not much laceration this will frequently take place; the hamiorrhage is seldom troublesome, unless the epigastric ar- tery be divided; it must be suppressed by the usual means ; the patient's position should be such as to relax the abdominal mus- cles, and the applications should be as simple as possible. For incised wounds, the adhesive plaster and a bandage; and for punc- tured wounds, a pledget of unguentum cera, with moderate pres- sure, are the best applications : spare diet, mild purgatives, and general bleeding, must be adopted against the chance of perito- neal inflammation. It is sometimes, though very rarely, neces- sary to have recourse to suture; and where large cavities are laid open, those who are in the habit of using sutures, prefer the quilted suture. The quilted suture is simply the interrupted suture with a double ligature, and supported by small cylindrical bodies (pieces of quilt or bougie) placed on each side of the wound, by which its edges are more effectually compressed.—The double of the li- gature is made to inclose the one, and the knot to press directly upoji the other; by this means the sides of the wound ar» made closely to approximate. WOUNDS OF THE STOMACH. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. Almost instant fainting ;—the pulse becomes extremely small, d so rapid as with difficulty to be counted;—a cold sweat eaks out over the surface of the bodyj—vomiting comes onr C 2WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINES. £28 by which blood is brought tip ;—hiccup;—delirium.—Aliment- ary matter, mixed with blood, escapes at the external wound. PROGNOSIS. The prognosis will ever be unfavourable.—The wound gene- rally proves fatal, either from the sympathetic effect of an injury done to so important an organ; or from the escape of blood or food into the cavity of the peritonaeum. TREATMENT. The wound, like all others into large cavities, should not be closed before all haemorrhage has ceased, until which time the patient should be laid in a situation, in which any blood, already collected, may be evacuated.—It is afterwards to be united by the interrupted suture.—Inflammation should be obviated by a strict antiphlogistic regimen,—repeated bleed- ing,—warm fomentations,—and emollient enemas.—The patient should entirely abstain from food, and all aliment should be conveyed by clysters of broth, milk, and other nutritive ingre- dients;—the thirst should be allayed by a small portion of jelly, or other substance, held in the mouth. Provided the event be favourable, in eight days food may be laken by the mouth. WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINES. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. Sudden and great prostration of strength;—loss of pulse;— tainting ;—bilious or feculent matter issuing from the wound;— bloody stools;—most violent colic pains;—nausea;—vomiting; —cold sweats.WOUNDS OF THE INTESTINES. c a PROGNOSIS. These, like wounds of the stomach, generally, though not universally, terminate fatally.—The event will, in great measure, dfpend upon the possibility of uniting the opening in the in- testine. TREATMENT. When the intestine has receded into the abdomen beyond the reach of the surgeon, the same observations will apply to this as to a wound of the stomach. When the divided portion protrudes through the external wound, as is not unfrequently the case, attempts should be mads to procure an union of the parts by suture. If the wound be longitudinal, the uninterrupted suture will be preferable.—The mode of making this consists in inserting stitches, with a common needle, at a moderate distance from each other, in an oblique spiral direction, along the course of the wound, without however dividing the thread, as in other spe- cies. The intestine is then to be returned into the abdomen, and being confined close to the external wound by the ligatures, suffered to hang out, an adhesion generally takes place to the pei itomeum: when an union has been effected, the threads may be withdrawn. To unite circular or transverse wounds of'the intestines, va- rious plans have been recommended.—Mr. J. Bell proposes a su- ture to be made entirely round.—Cylinders of isinglass, or of pasteboard,—rolls of tallow, &c—have been advised to be in- serted within the divided portion.—The insertion of one extre- mity of the wounded intestine within the other, and various other modes of attempting union, have also been suggested.— The interrupted suture appears most likely to be attended with, success.—Four stitches will be necessary; one of winch should30 WOUNDS OF THE LIVER. be made near to the mesentery, the others at equal distances round the intestine.—The ligatures should be sufl'ered to hang from the external •wound, or should be cut close, and returned with the intestine into the abdomen ; when the external wound should be united as above directed.—See a Treatise on Hernia, by Mr. Astley Cooper, wherein some experiments are related, which were made upon animals by Mr. Thomson at Edinburgh, and likewise by himself, which prove the success of this mode of practice. In gun-shot wounds of the intestines, the only object of treatment is to obviate inflammation; for the intestines very seldom protrude. WOUNDS OF THE LIVER. DIAGNOSIS. A wound of the liver is ascertained to have taken place bythe .peculiarly dark or black blood evacuated at the opening;—by the most depressing sickness ;—frequently by concomitant jaundice; -—by the sympathetic pain at the top of the shoulder. PROGNOSIS. Small wounds of the liver have been recovered from; large ones are generally fatal. TREATMENT. As in wounds of the other viscera of the abdomen, the exter- nal wound should be suffered to remain open, until the hemor- rhage from the internal shall have ceased; and the patient should be placed in a position similar to that recommended in wounds of the stomach. The accession of inflammation should be guarded against, andWOUNDS OP THE SPLEEN, KIDNBY, &C. 31 moderated when present) by a strict antiphlogistic regimen, and by other appropriate means. The sympathetic affection of the stomach should be obviated by keeping that organ in a state of perfect quiet;—avoiding every thing which might excite irritation :—and by the use of anodyne and emollient clysters. WOUNDS OF THE GALL-BLADDER. DIAGNOSIS. Most excruciating pain ;—an evacuation of bile from the wound, by vomiting, and by stool. PROGNOSIS. It is universally considered fatal. TREATMENT. The same treatment is applicable to this as to a wound of the liver; which see. WOUNDS OF THE SPLEEN, KIDNEY, AND RECEFTACULUM CHYLI. The first is distinguished by the evacuation of blood of a re- markably red colour :—it is esteemed fatal. A wound of the kidney is ascertained to have taken place by the passage of blood with urine ; and afterwards of pus.—It does not in general terminate fatally. When the rcceptaculum cbyli is wounded, chyle is said to flow from the external wound.—It proves mortal, by destroying the organs by which nourishment is conveyed to the system. TREATMENT Will be similar in every respect to that already laid down for wounds of the abdominal viscera. i i32 WOUNDS OF THE URINARY BLADDER. WOUNDS OF THE URINARY BLADDER. DIAGNOSIS. Suppression of urine, followed by excessive pain and great dis- tention of the abdomen;—urine mixed with blood flowing from the external wound;—cystitis. PROGNOSIS. It generally proves fatal, from the urine escaping into the ca- vity of the abdomen.—It will be more or less dangerous as the wound happens to be above or below the peritoneal covering of the upper part of the bladder. TREATMENT. It has been proposed to inject water by the wound, to obviate the irritating effect of the extravasated urine.—It has likewise been advised to sew up wounds of the bladder; but any such at- tempt must be unsuccessful, from the great retraction of the organ. The wound, if small, is directed to be dilated, and the pelvis to be elevated, so that the wound may be in the most depending situation.—Inflammation is to be obviated or diminished by bleeding,—fomentations,—copious emollient clysters,—opium, &c. as recommended for the cure of cystitis;—whilst an accu>- muiatidri of urine should be assiduously guarded against by let- ting the patient constantly wear a silver, or Smith's flexible, ca- theter, occasionally withdrawing it to be cleansed. WOUNDS OF JOINTS. DIAGNOSIS. When a wound has penetrated the cavity of a joint, there is an escape of synovia;—the joint soon becomes swelled and cx-WOUNDS OF THE NECK. 33 C 5 tremely painful;—the edges inflame, and put on a sloughy ap- pearance ;—there is great constitutional irritation;—frequently abscesses form, and anchylosis ultimately ensues. PROGNOSIS. This will be determined by the size of the joint.—Wounds into large joints sometimes terminate fatally, from the extreme constitutional irritation which they create. TREATMENT. Union is to be effected by the quilted or interrupted suture, according to the situation of the wound.—In making this, it is advisable to guard against the needle penetrating the cavity of the joint:—it should pass only through the integuments. Inflammation is to be obviated by topical bleeding with leeches;—fomentations ;—the application of the steam of warm water, and a strict antiphlogistic regimen. WOUNDS OF THE NECK. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. When the trachea or larynx has been wounded, air rushes copiously through the wound, and in general there is a loss of the powers of speech.—If the oesophagus be wounded, food es- capes at the external opening. PROGNOSIS, A wound is in general more alarming when happening in the trachea than in the larynx, owing to the profuse luemorrhage with which it is usually attended.—In many instances death has been produced by the blood getting into the bronchia, and pro- ducing suffocation.—Wounds of the oesophagus have been almost uniformly fatal,34f WOUNDS OF TENDONS. TREATMENT.* The wound should be united by suture superficially inserted, as directed for wounds of the abdomen, &c.; and care should be taken, in afterwards applying adhesive straps, to leave small openings between each for the escape of air, otherwise general emphysema will ensue. Where there is great hemorrhage, immediate union by suture becomes improper.—The receding vessel should, if possible, be secured : if that be impossible, the same treatment should be adopted as to keeping open the wound, and to the posture of the patient, as in wounds of the abdomen. WOUNDS OF TENDONS. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. The immediate effect of a wounded or ruptured tendon, is a retraction of the divided ends to a very considerable distance frgm each other; which, when the tendon is superficial, is ge- nerally discoverable to the touch.—The rupture of a tendon is accompanied with a sudden pain or shock, similar to that pro- duced by external violence.—This is more remarkably the case in ruptures of the tendo Achillis. PROGNOSIS. When a tendon has been completely divided, the injury is seldom productive of serious consequences ; when partially so, the contrary is sometimes the case.—See Punctured Wounds, and the Consequences of Bleeding. TREATMENT, The external wound is to be united by suture ; and the di- vided portions of the tendon afterwards made to approximate. The latter is to be effected by applying compression upon the body of the .muscle, to prevent further retraction, and by soCONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 35 adjusting the position of the limb, that the divided ends may as nearly as possible approach each other, or effectually come in contact.—In accidents of this kind happening to the tendo Achillis, this may be easily done by means of an instrument invented by the late Dr. Monro, on the principle of a high- heeled shoe, with a stiff'substance running up behind the leg, and confined by a strap encircling the calf.—See Plate 12, Fig. 5. Tn closing the subjectof incised wounds, it must be observed, that sutures, which were much used by surgeons some years ago, have now fallen into disrepute ; they produce fresh wounds iu a surface already sufficiently irritated ; they give additional pain, and, as ex- traneous bodies, induce an increased inflammation, too threat in genera! for the union by the first intention: suppuration is frequent- ly their consequence, by which the very object of their use Is de- feated. In the cure for the hare lip, and occasionally in large wounds of cavities, they are still recommended ; but in all other instances, equally good effects can be, with more certainty and less inconvenience, produced by the operation of adhesive plas- ter, bandage, and position. CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. In wounds from contusion and laceration, there is little at- tendant hamorrhagej but the injury which the part sustains is in general so treat, that a sloughing is the frequent consequence : —swelling, inflammation, and suppuration, are their constant at- tendants. PROGNOSIS. The danger chiefly arises from a severe inflammation, and C 6'PUNCTURED WOUNDS. consequent extensive sphacelus.—Tetanus also is sometimes induced by laceration of tendons.—In other cases the wound is to be regarded only as a simple suppurating sore. TREATMENT. The chief indications arc, to moderate inflammation, and accelerate the process of suppuration, by leeches;—scarifica— I tions; —warm fomentations, and cataplasms.—Should slough- ing ensue, the same treatment is to be employed as recommend- ed for mortification:—opium is however the most effectual remedy. . Where the laceration is only slight, an union by the first intention may frequently be effected;—if, upon trial, it should be found impracticable, suppuration should be promoted by fo- mentations, &c. &c—See Abscess. PUNCTURED WOUNDS. Punctured wounds differ from others, in their having been inflicted with a pointed instrument.—They often produce alarming and even fatal consequences ; sometimes inducing an inflammation of the internal surface of an absorbent vessel, and sometimes by inducing tetanus by partially dividing a nerve or tendon.—See Tetanus. The symptoms produced by the inflammation of an absorbent vessel are—unusual pain, coming on a short time after the in- fliction of the wound, followed by a red inflamed line, hard to the feel, and extremely painful, extending upwards, often both upwards and downwards, along the member, which soon begins to swell, and an extensive inflammation takes place; numerous abscesses often form in the course of the absorbents,PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 37 and in general the nearest gland becomes enlarged, great con- stitutional irritation ensues, the pulse is extremely quick and hard ; delirium, and in some instances death, has followed. The most frequent consequence, however, of bad punctured wounds, is deep-seated inflammation, followed by abscesses; which at all times produce considerable inconvenience, and sometimes even tremendous symptoms of irritation, especially when these collections of matter are confined by the fascia or aponeurotic expansion of muscles. Punctured wounds will sometimes unite by the first intention, without much pain, or concomitant inflammation; this there- fore in their treatment should always be remembered and at- tempted; the orifice of the stab should be closed by ships of plaster, over which cold should be applied. Quiet, and the an- tiphlogistic regimen, must also be strictly observed. TREATMENT. It has been recommended as the most effectual way of pre- venting ill consequences from stabs, to enlarge the opening with a lancet or scalpel, and thus convert the puncture into a simple incision, to be united by the first intention. This can only be practised in very superficial punctures, in which the infliction of such pain would generally be a very wanton and unnecessary procedure. When the inflammation is not considerable, compression by bandages should be had recourse to, in order to facilitate an union between the sides of the wound. When, however, the inflam- matory symptoms arc running high, and will not yield to the attempts to restrain them, suppuration must be promoted; and little more than this can be done, for the most part, in cases of deep stabs, as the local and general symptoms of irritation arePOISONED WOUNDS. then very great. Emollient poultices, aud opiate fomentations, repeated every two or three hours, are then the most approved applications. When abscesses form, they must be freely and boldly laid open, especially when under fascia;; when the swell- ing and hardness of the whole limb will cause some obscurity as to the exact site of the abscess, should the first incision fail, others must be made, till the collection of pus is set at liberty. Punctured wounds often become indolent and indisposed to heal: in this case stimulant injections, setons, dilatations, &c. should be employed, and the wound treated in every respect as a fistulous ulcer. Should inflammation of the absorbents be the consequence of a punctured wound, numerous leeches should be applied along its course;—cathartics, refrigerants, the saline medicine, and other remedies proper for inflammation, should be administered;—re- frigerant lotions should first be applied to the part, and if these are unsuccessful, emollient poultices and hot fomentations.—See the Treatment of Inflammation. POISONED WOUNDS. These are wounds inflicted by poisoned instruments; by the bites of rabid animals; or by the bite or sting of certain reptiles and insects. The effects of wounds of this kind are various : some produce almost immediate death; some dissolve the crasis of the fluids, and induce passive hasmorrhagy, petechia, and putrescency of the whole system; others are said to operate by producing a serene and fatal sleep ; but the most frequent are those inducing inflammation.POISONED WOUNDS. 3D SYMPTOMS. Of the bites of rabid animals.—After the expiration of a shorter or longer time, sometimes not until many months after the accident, the part becomes painful,—wandering pains are felt over the body,—great restlessness,—heaviness,—disturbed sleep and frightful dreams;—sudden startings or spasms,— sighing,—anxiety,—and love for solitude.—These symptoms daily increase, pains begin to shoot from the wounded part up to the throat, occasioning a straitness and sensation of choak- ing; an aversion is felt to the swallowing of water or other liquids, which at length arises to such a degree, that the mo- ment any thing in a fluid form is brought in contact with the patient's lips, it occasions him to start back with dread and horror; and the attempt at deglutition is accompanied with a. convulsive paroxysm.—A vomiting of bilious matter is an early symptom; an intense hot fever ensues, with dryness and rough- ness of the tongue, hoarseness of the voice, and the discharge of a viscid saliva from the mouth, which the patient is constantly spitting out; together with spasms of the genital and urinary organs, in consequence of which the evacuations are forcibly ejected.—There is extreme anxiety, and irritability sometimes so excessive that the smallest impression made upon the body, by the perching of a fly or other cause, fails not to induce the most terrible convulsions.—In some instances delirium arises, and closes the tragic scene ; but generally the judgment is retained until the pulse becomes tremulous and irregular, convulsions then arise, and nature is, at length, totally exhausted. Of the bite of the vip, r.—Acute pain and considerable swelling of the part, which soon becomes red, and afterwards livid ; disposition to fainting!—or actual syncope;—small rapid, sometimes interrupted, pulse;—great nausea;—bilious con 340 POISONED WOUNDS. vulsive vomitings;—cold sweats ;—the skin becomes yellow ;— convulsions,—death. In the greater number of cases the bad symptoms come on in fourteen or sixteen hours after the bite, which in this country seldom proves fatal. Its fatality is said to be proportioned to the smallness of the animal bitten. Of the bite of the rattlesnake.—Rapid depression of strength, rigors, nausea,—swelling of the part, livid spots appearing on the course of the absorbents, increasing to sphacelation of the cellular membrane, and integuments of the whole limb.—A full, strong, agitated pulse,—swelling of the whole body,—the eyes much diffused with blood,—sometimes copious bloody sweats,— and often haemorrhages from the eyes, nose, and ears.—The teeth chatter, and the pains and groans of the sufferer indicate his approaching dissolution. The bite of the adder is attended with symptoms of a similar nature, but they are much less violent; neither does it often prove fatal. Of smaller reptiles, and of insects.—These in general produce local inflammation only; which, however, is often very severe : in some instances the bite is productive of the same consequences as punctured wounds; inducing inflammation of the absorbents, and convulsions from their action on the nerves. The effects of the bite of musquittos, are small tumors, at- tended with so high a degree of itching and inflammation, that the patient cannot refrain from scratching; by a frequent re- petition of which he not uncommonly occasions them to ul- cerate. TREATMENT. {I. To prevent the absorption of the poison. II. To counteract its destructive effects when already iutroduced into the system.*1 TOISOXED WOUNDS, After the bites of rabid animals.—In order to effect this indica- tion, the first step should be the application of a tight ligature above the wound j secondly, the speedy and complete excision of the wounded part, in situations where such practice is admis- sible; and thirdly, the long-continued affusion of an alkaliue solution over the excised parts. The wound should afterwards be dressed with the unguentum cantharidis, or other stimulating ointment, in order that a discharge may be kept up for a consi- derable length of time. When, from the timidity of the patient, or from the wounded ! part being so situated as to render extirpation inadmissible, other means are obliged to be adopted; ablution with a very dilute • solution of pure potass, or the application of the nitrate of silver or pure potass, are most likely to be attended with success. Nitric acid is applied by some as the safest means of preventing the evil consequences arising from the bite of rabid animals, and destroying the poison, as it not only acts upon the parts conti- guous to the bite, but decomposes any saliva which may have been infused in the wound. It is, however, apt to spread itself 'too far over the surrounding surface. After the bite of serpents, S(c.—The most effectual means of securing the patient from future consequences, is the excision of the part, as above recommended. Where this is not prac- tised, a ligature should be instantly applied above the wounded part, and retained there while the latter is washed with the aqua kali prasparati, volatile alkali, or the spiritus ammo- nia- succinatus ;—kali purum is perhaps the best topical appli- cation. The long-continued affusion of cold water has been recom- »ended,-as also the fat of vipers;-the warm liver of a fowl4,2 POISONED WOUNDS. is now applied in the East ladles)— oliy aad unctuoiu aiipHc^- tions;—the firing of gunpowder upon the wounded part. The application of a poultice of vinegar and vine-ashes has been successfully used. Phil. Trans, Dr. Mead recommends long-continued suction with the mouth defended by oil! A poultice of quick-lime, with oil and honey, is said to have been effectually employed. The fresh juice of the plantain is also by some considered an excellent antidote! li. sifter the bites of rabid animals.—Various are the modes of treatment recommended by different writers to fulfil this indi- cation. Some advise the use of stimulants;—wine,—ardent spirits,— aromatics,—the nitric and other mineral acids united with wine, and administered both by the mouth, and likewise injected up the rectum, upon the first appearance of the disease ;— afterwards, the concrete acid of tartar, of lemons, of benzoes joined with capsicum. The concrete acids may be administered with punch, or thus : R. Acidi citrici 9j. Pulveris capsici gr. viij. Confectionis rosze quantum sufficit. O.', R. Acidi tartari 9j. Puheris capsici gr. vj. Confectionis roste quantum sufficit. Fiat bolus secunda, tcrtia, vel quarta quaque hora deglutendus. By Dr. Rush, the antiphlogistic plan is recommended; as co- pious venesection,—large laxative clysters,—diaphoretics,poisoned wounds. Mercury has been often used in hydrophobia j find many WMea ttl'fl related of its clHeacy. HoitfotQH, Raid, Rush, &c. Musk with opium are said to huvtj been successfully employed. Jh: lius/t. R. Moschi gr. xv. Extracti opii gr. j. Mucilaginis acacia-, quantum sufiicit Ut fiat bolus secunda quaque hora sumendus. R. Moschi, Camphors, aa gr. x. Spiritus oetheris sulphurici compositi jj. Pulveris acaciae 9ij. Tincturae opii gutt. xx. Aqua; menthae viridis 3x1)'. Syrupi 3j. ] Fiat haustus secunda vel tertia quaque hora adhibendus. Also wine and bark in large quantities;—warm and cold bathing;—the copious use of oil internally and externally;— exciting profuse sweating by means of ipecacuanha in small and frequent doses, or the pulvis ipecacuanhie coinpositus ;—cam- phire;—arsenic ;—the liberal use of vinegar. R. Pulveris cinchonae 3ij. cinnamomi compositi Dfs. 1 Fiat pulvis secunda vel tertia quaque hora capiendus ex cyatho vini rubri generosissimi. R. Radicis ipecacuanha, contusae gr. xiv. Aqua: fcrventU O. fs. Macera per boram, et cola.4|.; POISONED WOUNDS, R. Liquoris colati Jfs. ammonia? acetatis 3'ii> Tinctura: camphora: 3VJ. Syrupi 3.j. Fiat haustus sccundis vel tertiis horis capiendu*. R. Pulveris ipecacuanha; compositi 9fs, Misturae camphorae fortioris 3xiij. Syrupi 33. Fiat hnustub Vevtiis horis sumendus. R. Liquoris arsenicalis gutt. viij. Mistuiaj camphors fortioris 3x1V. Syrupi rosa; 3j. Fiat haustus quartis horis adhibendus. Opium has been administered in extremely large doses, te allay the excessive irritability, without effect. The Ormskirk medicine,—the Tonquin medicine, -which is chiefly musk and cinnabar. The Carnatic, Tanjore, or snake pills, composed of arsenic and mercury, have been much employed. Dr. Powel believes the nitrate of silver to be a most powerful antispasmodic, and recommends its internal exhibition in the dose of one grain every hour, increasing it according to cir- cumstances. After thelites of serpents, <S>-c—Emetics;— powerful sudo- vines. Dr. Mead. In the East Indies the following are universally had recourse to: 4POISONED WOUNDS. THE CAR\rATIC SNAKE PILLS. Take of White arsenic, Roots of velli-navi, — neri-visham, Kernels of nervalam, Pepper, Quicksilver; of each an equal quantity. The quicksilver is to be rubbed with the juice of the wild cotton till the globules become invisible. The arsenic being first levigated, and the other ingredients reduced to powder, are then to be added, and the whole beaten up together, with the juice of the wild cotton, to a consistence lit to be divided into pills of six grains. Dr. Russel gives the following directions for using these pills : If a person be bitten by a cobra de capello, mix one of the pills with a little warm water, and give it. to the patient. After wait- ing a quarter of an hour, should the symptoms of infection in- crease, give two pills more; should these not sufficiently coun- teract the poison, another pill must be given an hour after. This is generally found sufficient. For the bite of all kinds of vipers give two pills; and if the poison be not, counteracted within half an hour give two pills more : but if the life of the patient be in great danger, four pills may be given. For the bite of all other less poisonous snakes one pill, every morning for three days, is sufficient. The juice of the ruta graveolens or rue. Barton. Spiritus ammonias aromaticus,—sulphuric icther,—Venice treacle. Dr. Temple recommends the caustic volatile alkali, or spiritus ammonias succinates, to be administered every five minutes.<J<5 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. R. Liquoris ammonias 31J. Misturae amygdalx 3"iv. Fiat mistura, cujus capiat aeger cochlearia duo magna in horKi R. Spiritus ammoniac succinati 31J. Misturoe camphorae Jiv. Fiat niistura, civjus sumat cochlearia duo arnpla in horas. Wine given in lavge quantities. L>r. Russel. Tlie aristolochia, garlic, and various other remedies, are occa- sionally used.—The habilla carthago is in Spain esteemed a spe- cific for the bite of the scorpion. The local effects of the bites or stings of smaller reptiles and of insects, are relieved by the application of a solution of opium,—« the liquor acetatis plumbi dilutus,—the cremor lithargyri,— vinegar,—an alkaline solution. R. Tincturae opii Jj. Aqua; distillatoa Jv Fiat lotio subinde applicanda. R. Liquoris carbonatis ammonia; jfs. Aqu?e distillate Jvfs. Fiat lotio subinde applicanda. GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. According to Mr. Hunter, these differ in no respect from con- tused wounds; their peculiar appearance being caused by the velocity of the substance with which they arc inflicted. CHARACTER. The appearance of the wound is peculiar, its edges are black,GUK-SHOT WOUNDS. 4^ as if burnt by gunpowder, although in reality the effect of con- tuse. There is seldom any hemorrhage; the inflammation Wh.ch constantly attends contused wounds comes on in this spe- eds much later than usual—About the second day the parts commonly become tumid, and the wound pours forth a gela- Itmous lymph, when symptoms of constitutional irritation arise ■which are generally severe; in extensive wounds not unfre- quently mducing spasm, convulsions, and even death -A dis- charge truly purulent seldom comes on before the eighth or tenth day ; when sloughs begin to separate, and the wound assumes a healthy appearance. PROGNOSIS. This will depend upon the extent of the injury, the importance Of the part in which it has been inflicted, and the degree of con- shtutmnal irritation supervening.-It will also be drawn from he disposition to gangrene ;_from the peculiarity of constitu- tion by which consequent symptoms are likely to be aggravated- as the patient being the subject of organic disease, or having •ted an .nebrious, dissipated life; in this case t)le prognosis will ever be unfavourable. In general the danger cannot at first be -ertamed; parts will afterwards often slough away and pro- duce a fatal hemorrhage, or other consequences, which were not at first suspected to be injured. TrtEATMEXT. 1. To remove any extraneous bodies which >■ 10 remove any extraneous bodic Indications. J may sti11 remain in the wound. in. To obviate inflammation, and expedite ^ the formation of pus.©UN-SHOT WOUNDS. i. If the situation of the ball, or othe^ extraneous body, can be ascertained by examination with the probe, or with the finger, recourse may be had to the forceps in order to extract it; and if these prove ineffectual, the wound should be dilated. Should the ball have run superficially beneath the integuments, it may be felt by the finger; its course may sometimes be detected by a red line in the cuticle extending from the external wound, and in this situation a simple incision will often be sufficient for its extraction. If its situation cannot be readily ascertained, little trouble need be taken upon the occasion, as numerous instances prove that balls may remain imbedded in the animal solid with- out producing injurious consequences. It has been customary to dilate all gun-shot wounds in which extraneous bodies are still lodged. Mr. Hunter objects to this indiscriminate dilatation, and lays down the following rules concerning the propriety of dilating, and the period at which the dilatation ought to be made. If the wound be slight, and extraneous bodies are lodged in it that may increase consequent irritation, it should be immediately dilated ; as also where an artery is to be secured ; where there has been a fracture, and it becomes necessary to remove detached pieces of bone, or wher- a protruded part is to be replaced :—but if the injury be severe, the dilatation should be deferred until after the first inflamma- tion is over, as by adding an incised to the contused wound, two sources of irritation would exist instead of one. II. By a strict antiphlogistic regimen ;—repeated venesection;— cooling purgatives of neutral salts, with the addition of antimo- riiuin tartarizatuni;—saline medicines j—opium joined with anti- mony, and other remedies proper for inflammation: which see--49 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. Locally.—The application of leeches.—The old practice of scarifying the contused edges of the wound has lately been re- newed on the continent, it is said, with success.—Turpentine,— dilute solution of nitric acid,—have also been advantageously employed.—Hot fomentations ; and, if the inflammation be §reat, fomentations of poppies and hemlock.—Warm cataplasms often repeated ; but in the greater number of cases the most simple applications are the best. After suppuration has taken place, Peruvian bark and other tonics ;—opium in large doses;—the local use of a dilute solu- tion of nitr ic acid. Where the injury has been so extensive as to require amputa- tion, much dispute has taken place concerning the period proper for performing it. A state of high health is by no means the most calculated to endure withtsuccess an important operation, and ex- perience teaches us to M^ve the performance of amputation till the first inflammation hasjjsubsidcd, unless, from the greatness of the injury, it may be exfected to destroy the patient. This oc- curs more frequently in Jvounds from gun-shot, than in those produced by other causifi. The proportion of those who re- cover, after suffering amputation on the field of battle, is small compared with those who die ; and this is a truth more espe- cially evinced in sieges, where wounds are mostly inflicted by shells or cannon-shot, and where the consequent and immediate necessity for removing the stricken limb is very frequent. Oa the contrary, there is a much better chance of I lie patient doing well, who has been previously lowered by inflammation and symptomatic fever. The circumstances instantly demanding the operation, are, greal injuries done to the larger joints;—such destruction of the soft parts as to destroy the circulation of the blood ; — the partial50 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. division of an artery, from a pointed instrument, as a sharp piece of fractured bone, and when it is so embedded and en- tangled in the fractured and swoln parts, that it cannot be se- cured ;—bad fractures high up the os femoris;—also when the ball lias passed through the extremity, fracturing the bones, and la- cerating extensively the surrounding parts, the mischief being too great for the limb to recover itself, amputation may be perform- ed, or it may, in even this instance, be frequently waved till the first inflammation has passed over. When a part of a limb has been entirely torn froin the body by a ball, this operation must not be delayed ;—there has been Some difference of opinion on this point; but who ought to hesi- tate to change an irregular and dangerous wound, from which all sorts of ill consequences must be expected, into one likely to heal, in a great measure, by the first intention ? When it is determined upon to amputate immediately after the infliction of the wound, it will be advisable to allow a consi- derable portion of blood to escape from the stump during the operation;—or, which is better, to bleed freely from the anu as soon as the pulse indicates that reaction which more or less must always follow so violent and so sudden a shock. The anti- phlogistic regimen must also be most rigidly adopted.51 GENERAL BLEEDING. The operation of blood-letting, so as to take blood from the System generally, is performed either by opening a vein or an artery: the former is termed Phlebotomy, the latter Arteriotomy. The situations usually chosen for a general discharge of blood from the system are four :—the fore-arm,—the neck,—the temple,—and the foot or ancle. I. IN THE FORE-ARM. The operator and patient being placed in proper relative si- tuations, which it will be needless to describe, a ligature is to be made to encircle the arm just above the elbow, so as to com- press the vein about two inches above the part from which the blood is to be drawn ; and having been suffered to remain some minutes, in order that a distention may take place from the ac- cumulated blood, the thumb of the left hand should be pressed tipon the vein made choice of (the basilic or cephalic median arc preferable—see a and f in Plate I.), about two inches below the point where the orifice is to be made. The surgeon is now to take the lancet, previously bent nearly to a right angle, between the finger ami thumb of his right hand, leaving at least half of the blade uncovered. He is then to rest, his hand on the three re- maining lingers, while he pushes the point of the instrument cautiously through the integuments into the vein; when, having thus pierced its coats, he is to carry it forwards in a direction rather oblique until an orifice of sufficient size be made, and then to withdraw it in the name cautious manner in which it entered. O 352 GENERAC BLEEDING. When a sufficient quantity of blood lias been drawn, the liga- ture is to be untied, and the lips of the wound being carefully brought together, a small compress of linen is to be applied upon the orifice, and secured in that situation by a roller, passed alternately above and below the elbow, so that when ap- plied it may describe the figure 8 by crossing at the bend of the arm. EXPLANATION OF PLATE I. ft. The basilic vein. b. The cephalic vein. c. The median vein. d. The median basilic vein, in which we generally bleed; lying directly over the artery. e. The brachial artery, just about to ■pass under the fascia at the bend of the arm. f. The median cephalic vein. g. The great trunk of the basilic vein lying parallel to the artery, and forming in the end the great axillary vein. h. The internal cutaneous nerve, several branches of which pass downwards over the great veins, and one turns inward to- wards the inner condyle. i. A considerable branch of the cutaneous nerve, which, passing beneath the median basilic vein, might be wounded, by transfixing the vein in bleeding, k. The inner condyle of the humerus. 1. The biceps flexor cubiti muscle, m. The brachialis interims muscle, n. Aporeurosis of the biceps, ii. Tile supinator longus muscle. p. A branch of the external cutaneous ncn e. 6Shewing1 lit e relative situariou of the artery i eins and aerves.al tlic tend ot'ilir foreabuI L t I I i I I I I I I I I I I I I I IGENERAL BLEEDING. II. IN THE NECK. The external jugular is the vein to be selected for the purpose, slid the most eligible place for performing the operation is about midway between the clavicle and the angle of the jaw. In order I to produce an accumulation of blood, it is necessary to compress the vessel on each side of the neck; and this is more conveniently done by the thumb and finger of the left hand, than by ligature and compress.—The pressure should be made about two inches below the part fixed upon for the incision.—The remaining steps in the operation are precisely similar to those above described, which need not be repeated. III. IN THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. The first step in the operation is to expose the vessel clearly to the view of the operator, by an incision made through the in,- i teguments in the direction of its course. A partial division of I the artery is then to be made transversely, or rather obliquely, when the blood will begin to flow -with great rapidity; and after a sufficient quantity has been drawn, the haemorrhage is to be slopped, either by means of a compress, secured by a bandage passed around the head, or, as is a more effectual mode, by a complete division of the vessel; the haemorrhage ceasing upon the consequent retraction of its extremities. IV. IN THE FOOT. The operation is seldom required to be performed in this situation. When it becomes necessary, the sapluena vein is to be chosen, and the same compression of the veins is requisite as above directed. To promote an accumulation and consequent flow of blood, it is usual to immerse the foot in warm water before and after the opening has been made. Adhesive plaster . will in general be sufficient to put a stop to the haemorrhage, u JCONSEQUENCES OF BLOOD-LETTING. 54> The morhtd Consequences of Blood-letting, I. INFLAMMATION OF THE INTEGUMENTS. This will be either phlegmonous or erysipelatous, according as certain local or constitutional circumstances may happen to be present.—The symptoms and cure have been already de- scribed when treating of inflammation in general. II. INFLAMMATION OF THE VEIN. SYMPTOMS. The vein swells, and becomes capable of being distinctly traced in its course along the limb, by an unusual hardness to the feel, and by an erysipelatous inflammation which runs over it.—Much pain and stiffness of the arm is occasioned.—Sup- puration often shortly takes place ; most violent rigors come on, accompanied with much fever and irritation.—It has proved fatal, from the admixture of pus with the circulating fluids. TREATMENT. In order to prevent the extension of the inflammation along the course of the vessel, a compress should be tightly applied upon the vein, at some distance above the punctured part, in order to effect an union between its sides.— Should this be in- effectual, a complete division of the tube is recommended.—Fo- mentations and other local remedies should be assiduously em- ployed. See Inflammation,CONSEQUENCES OF BLOOD-LETTING. 55 Hi; INFLAMMATION Of THE ABSORBENTS. For the symptoms and treatment, sec Punctured Wounds. IV. INFLAMMATION OF THE SUBJACENT FASCIA. SYMPTOMS. Great pain referred to the part, extending downwards along the arm, upwards to the acromion of the scapula, and into the axilla: stiffness and difficult)- of extending the arm. At first there is little tumor; a considerable swelling afterwards takes place with erysipelatous inflammation, and sometimes largo col- lections of matter form beneath the fascia. TREATMENT. Refrigerant lotions ;—fomentations;—emollient cataplasms, and other local remedies adapted to the species and the stage of the inflammation. Sec Inflammation. If suppuration ensue, and matter collect beneath the fascia, this should be immediately divided by an incision.—After the violence of the symptoms has subsided, frequent motion of the arm to prevent consequent rigidity. V. WOUNDED NERVE. SYMPTOMS. Excruciating pain is sometimes felt immediately upon the in- troduction of the instrument, and this soon followed by the most extreme constitutional irritation,— delirium,'—convulsions,— tetanus.—At others, a considerable time elapses before the ac- cession of the symptom*. 0 456 CONSEQUENCES OF BLOOD-LETTING. TREATMENT.' It is recommended to divide the nerve a short distance above the wound, and thereby interrupt the communication with the sensgrium,.—If bleeding has been performed in the median basilic vein, a division of the internal cutaneal nerve will be required : if in the median cephalic, the external.—They lie immediately above the fascia of the fore-arm, and by a careful dissection are readily discovered. Vide Abernethy's Etsays, and Plate I. VI. VARICOSE ANEURISM. See Aneurism.57 TOPICAL BLEEDING. The means employed for drawing bloody more immediately from particular parts consist either in the application of leeches,— in slight incisions with a lancet,—or in the use of the scarificator. THE .APPLICATION OF LEECHES. The manner in which leeches are usually applied, is so well known as not to require description.—Success is rendered more certain by previously drying them, or allowing them to crc-p over a dry cloth ; the part also, to attract them, may be moist- ened with cream, sugar, or blood; and if still not fastening, it may be cooled with a cloth dipped in cold water.—Their escape should be prevented by covering them with a small glass. SCARIFICATION AND CUPPING. This is performed, where the part will admit, by means of an instrument called the scarificator, in which a number of lancets are placed in such a manner, that when it is applied upon the affected part, the whole are, by means of a spring, pushed sud- denly into it, to a depth at which the instrument has been pre- viously regulated. A fin- scarification has been performed in the above manner', bleeding is promoted by means of glasses, from which the air has been exhausted by heat, or by an exhausting syringe.—The usual mode of applying the heat is by holding the glass over 1 lie flame of a lamp.—Another but not so neat a way is, to moisten a small piece "f tow, lint, or cotton, with spirit of wine, to set it on (ire in the bottom of the glass, and on the flame being Dearly extinguished, instantly to apply it. over the scarified part. —The glasses are to be occasionally removed, and again applied, until a sufficient quantityof blood has been drawn. n 558 ISSUES. Issues are artificial ulcers, made with the design of producing a permanent discharge of purulent matter.—Three different kinds are now in common use;—the blister-issue,—the pea- issue,— and the seton. The situations chosen for their formation will depend upon the p-.rticdlar morbid state of the system for which they are em- ployed.—The most frequent are, the nape of the neck; the middle of the humerus, or hollow of the deltoid muscle ; be- tween the shoulders, or ribs, and in the inside above or below the knee. Objectionable parts are, wherever there is not a sufficiency of cellular substance for the protection of the parts beneath;—im- mediately over the belly of a muscle ;— over a tendon, or thinly- tovered bone;—near any large blood-vessel. THE BLISTER-ISSUE. This is formed by the continued application of a small blister, or vesicant, to the part, until the scarf-skin is destroyed ; when being removed, the discharge is to be promoted by milder appli- cations of the same nature with the vesicant, alternately with sjme mild liniment, according to the degree of the discharge required. THE PEA-ISSUE Is formed by making an incision with a lancet, or by the ap- plication of caustic.SETON". 59 When the lancet is chosen, the parts arc to be previously pinched up with the finger and thumb, and then cut through until an opening of sufficient size has been formed. The following is the best mode of applying caustic.—The part is first to be covered with a piece of adhesive plaster, in the centre of which a circular hole has been cut of the size of the intended issue;—in this hole the caustic, potassa fusa, made into a paste with soap, is to be placed : the whole is then to be covered with another plaster, secured by a bandage, and suffer- ed to remain for ten or twelve hours. In two or three days gene- rally an escar begins to separate, when the opening should be filled with the substance made choice of; this may either be a pea, a bean, small pieces of orris or gentian root, orange- peas, &c. THE SETON. The seton i» made by means of a needle invented for that purpose, with an attached skein of cotton or silk : in inserting it, tiie parts at which it is to enter and pass out are to be previously marked, and a small part of the skein smeared with some mild unguent. After which the needle is to be passed completely through, and then separated from the cord, which should be suffered to remain within the wound, its ends hanging from the edges. Small pieces of Indian rubber are now prepared for setons in- stead of ski-ins of silk or thread : they are bent at each end, to prevent them slipping out.—The seton should be dressed daily with a mild unguent; and if the discharge should cease, it may he st.niulated with the ceratum lyttic,— unguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi—or unguentum sabime. d G60 ULCERS. By an ulcer is meant a chronic solution of continuity of the animal solid; accompanied with a purulent or other discharge. Ulcers are considered as healthy or vitiated.—The former state is where the healing process goes gradually on, without in- terruption, until a cure is effected;—the latter, where some cir- cumstance, either local or constitutional, forms an impediment to the healing of the sore; and hence, according to the nature of the cause, such ulcers have obtained various denominations; as, the indolent, the inflamed, the sinuous, the scrofulous, &c. THE BENIGN OR HEALTHY ULCER. CHARACTER. Granulations, or little eminences, arising from the surface, of a florid red colour; small in size, and pointed at top;—the dis- charge bland, white, opaque;— the edges thin and even with the sore; being neither inverted nor retorted. TREATMENT. r i. To preserve the healthy state of the gra- nulations. ' indications. \ "■ To Promote cicatrization, when they have attained the level of the adjacent » cutis. By avoiding all sources of irritation ;—by perfect rest ; —an horizontal posture; and by the use of mild and simple oint- ments, as, common cerate,—unguenhim cetneei,—unguentum plumbi supcracetatis, and the like.LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. 61' ii. By compression with straps of adhesive plaster—see the Ha-- bitual Ulcer;—by the application of dry lint to the surface of the sore;—by mild astringent ointments and lotions—the cera- tuin plumbi supcracetatis,— ceratuin calaminoe,—liquor calcis,— a weak solution of sulphate of zinc. R. Sulphatis zinci gr. xij. Aquae distillata; Jviij. Fiat lotio. LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. • These are certain deviations from the benign or healthy state just described. The causes inducing the morbid change, or the impediments to healing, are numerous, and require separate consideration.—Although greatly influenced, and often induced, by the general state of the body, as to vigour, debility, irrita- bility, &c. they are totally unconnected with any specific con- stitutional taint. The intentions in the treatment of each will be to obviate the particular cause that has induced the vitiated state; and to re- store the ulcer to its original healthy disposition. I. The iii/latned stale. CHARACTER. The ulcer appears of a dark colour;—it is surrounded by an extensive, inflamed areola,—the surface is covered with a brown transparent ichor. TREATMENT. Fomentations and cataplasms used until it shall have lost its brown appearance;—narcotic fomentations of conium, bella- donna, papaver, digitalis, &c.62 LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. If the Inflammation be severe,—leeches to the neighbourhood of the sore;—cooling purges of sulphate of magnesia, or sulphates of soda. II. The irritable and painful state. CHARACTER. The margin of the surrounding skin jagged, and terminating in a sharp and undefined edge.—The bottom made up of conca- Tities of different sizes, without any appearance of granulations; —the surface covered with a thin, ichorous discharge.—It is ex- quisitely painful upon the slightest touch. CAUSE. As it is usually accompanied with a debilitated state of the part, and is relieved by tonics, it most probably is that irritability which is often the consequence of weakness. TREATMENT. In some, instances cold applications succeed best in relieving the pain ; in others, warm ;—fomentations, therefore, or infu- sions, previously allowed to cool, may be successively used; of conium, belladonna, the heads of white poppy. Opium externally applied, and joined with camphirc and hem- lock, and administered internally. wno on i. R. Extracti opii mollis 31J. Aqua; purse O. j. Dissolve the opium by trituration, adding the water gradually. Or, R. Tincture opii Jfs. Aquas distillata; Jxij. Fiat lotio sa>pe applicanda.LOCAL VITIATED VLCEKS. 63 R. Extract] opii gr. \. Cainphorae gr. v. Extracti conii gr. iij. Fiat bolus octavis boris sumendus. Tonic lotions of sulphate of zinc,—of nitrate of silver, ap- plied with a camel-hair pencil,—or a solution of sulphate of soda. R. Zinci sulphatis 3j. Aquae distillatae Jxij. Solve, Solve. Fiat lotio. R. Argenti nitratis 3j. Aquae distillatae Jfs. R. Sodae sulphatis Jj. Aqua distillatae Jvij. Fox-glove made into a poultice has been found very service- able in allaying the pain, removing the irritation, and diminish- ing the increased sensibility of ulcers. CATAPLASMA DIGITALIS. Boil three ounces of the dried leaves of the fox-glove, or four ounces of the fresh plant, in two pints of water to one. A sufficient quantity of the strained decoction is to be added to linseed meal, to form a poultice of sufficient consistency. The unguentum picis. Kitkland. Balsamum Peruvianum, applied on lint, has been attended With good effect. Hydrogenous and carbonic acid gasses. Dr. Rullu,54 LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. Carbon joined with opium. Mr. Hume. The unguentum conii is also an excellent dressing, and like- wise a cerate of hemlock, which is of a firmer consistency. CERATUM CONII. Hemlock Cerate. R. Unguenti conii tbj. Cetacei Jij. Cera; alba Jiij. Misce. III. The sloughing state. This is a mortification of the granulations, and may be the effect, either of a preceding state of high inflammation, or of a debility of the part—For the treatment, see Mortification. The cummin confection is an excellent application mixed witb linseed or oatmeal. CONFECTIO CUMINI. R. Cumini seminum tbj. Lauri baccarum, Scordii foliorum exsiccatorum, Serpentarice radicis, singulorum 5iij. Caryophylloram Jj. These ingredients being reduced to powder, are to be mixed with thrice their weight of honey. One part of this confecfaon is to be mixed with two parts of the common linseed meal poultice. iv. The phagedenic state. See Phadegteidt Ulcer. In this state the part does not possess sufficient vigour for the formation of granulations; and consequently for the heal.ng of the sore.LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. 65 CHARACTER. The ulcer has a peculiar pallid appearance, and is covered With a transparent, glairy fluid, or with a lymph, which is with difficulty separated, and which gives to it a white appearance. The edges are thick, prominent, smooth, and rounded ; there is no appearance of granulations, or, if any are perceived, they are morbidly pale;—it sometimes becomes livid, and not unfie- quently degenerates into gangrene. TREATMENT. The internal administration of tonics and stimulants : cin- chona,— cusparia,—preparations of steel, &c. The inhalation of oxygen gas. Dr. Beddoes. Locally.—The unguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi, or the nitric oxyde of mercury, very finely powdered and applied in form of powder;-the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis. Lotion*, composed of solutions of sulphate o zinc, solution of nitrate of silver, or of the oxy-murias hydrargyri, in lime- water;—the camphorated water of sulphate of copper. LIQUOR CUPRI SULPHATIS CUM CAMPHOKA. R. Cupri sulphatis, Boli gallici, singulorum Jfs. Camphora 3j. Aquae ferventis Ifeiv. rhe boiling water is to be added to the other ingredients, and the liquor filtered when cold. A weak solution of nitric acid. Extract of chamomile in solution, externally and internally. 'OlknibutCh in HufdantVs Journal.6(5 LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. R. Extract! anthemidis 3j. Decocti cinchonas Jvij. Tittctura ejusdem 3fSl Fiat miibura cujui capiat sagcr ooohlewia iij. scxtis tori*. R. Florum antbcmidis Jiv. Aquae O.jfs. Decoque ad colaturam Jviij. R. Hujus decocti 3V"> Zinci sulphatis 3J. Micae panis quantum sufficit Ut fiat cataplasma bis quotidie applicandum. Fomentations, formed from cusparia,-Swietenia febrifuga,- oakbark. A strong decoction is to be made by boiling four ounces of either of these in two quarts of water to one, with which the parts should be fomented for half an hour every s* hours. Fomentations from a decoction of walnut-leaves. Mr. Home. Electricity. Arsenic administered both internally and externally. Mr. Home. Powders of rhubarb,—calumba,—gentian. Mr. Home. Compression, by the use of the laced stocking, and by straps of adhesive plaster. Bayntmi.—See Habitual Ulcer. vi. The fungous stale. Fungi, arising from the surface of ulcers, way be of two kinds: the true fungus, of irregular spongy growth; or the healthy granulations suffered by neglect to attain too great a height.67 LOCAL VITIATED ULCEUS. TREATMENT. The application of strong stimulants, as, solutions of nitrate of silver. Of muriate of ammonia in spirit. R. Ammonia? muriatis jj. Spiritus rcctificati Jjfs. Aquae J v. Fiat lotio. The pulvis sabinee, or unguentum sabinae;—the unguentum hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi. Escharotics, of which the best are, the nitrate of silver and the sulphate af copper.—During the use of these, dry lint should be kept applied to the surface of the sore.—When by some of • these means the fungus has been reduced in size, adhesive straps and bandage. vn. The callous state Consists in a morbid induration and thickening of the edge* pf the sore. TREATMENT. Escharotics : the nitrate of silver. Sheet lead, so applied as to press upon the edges only. Adhesive straps and tight bandage. Scarification of the callous parts. The unguentum lyttae confined to the edges of the ulcer, vin. The sinuous and fistulous states. These are longitudinal excavations, formed by matter insinu- ating itself in an improper direction; having no opening hj6& LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. which it could issue externally.-They are distinguished from each other by the edges of the latter being callous , of the for- mcr, not. TREATMENT. The sinuous ulcer.-A counter-opening where practicable, after which continued pressure by bandage, or other means.-Should this be impracticable or unsuccessful, stimulating injections; as, tincture of the blistering fly 5-a solution of oxy-muviate of mercury, or of the nitric or muriatic acids ;-a solution of nitrate - of silver applied by means of a feather, or the nitric oxyde of mercury applied on lint.-The introduction of a seton;-a free dilatation of the sinus, and consequent conversion into an in- cised wound. The fistulous ulcer.-Added to the above, the means of treat- ment before recommended for the callous ulcer. ix. The varicose state. An indolent ulcer, accompanied with a varicose distention of, the-brims around the ulcer, and frequently of the whole leg. It is generally concomitant with the callous state above described,, and not unfrequently induced by it.-It more especially occurs in tall men, to soldiers, to those accustomed to much fatigue, and after a change of climate. TREATMENT, If the edges of the ulcer be callous, these should first be re- moved by appropriate means. See Callous Ulcer. Should the varix afterwards continue, recourse may be had to the use of the linimentumammonhEj-to covering the part with oilskin ;-elec- tricity ^mercurial friction or plastcr.-If these prove uimiccess-LOCAL VITIATED ULCERS. 69 fill, it is advised by Mr. Home to obliterate the saphama vein above the knee. This operation may be performed in cither of the following modes: Having exposed the vein clearly to the view by an incision through the integuments, a ligature is to be passed around it by means of a blunt crooked silver needle; it is then to be tied with a moderate degree of firmness, and suffered to remain for the space of five or six days, when it may be removed : an artificial valve will thus be formed. Or the vessel may be completely di- vided, and compression afterwards made upon the part with a compress and tight bandage passed around the thigh. x. The menstruotts state. During a suppression of the menses, a discharge is often ob- served to take place periodically from ulcers ; bearing an exact resemblance to the customary uterine haemorrhage, and which ' becomes an obstacle to their healing. TREATMENT. The object will be to remove those causes which obstruct the menstrual discharge. XI. Tlic carious state. Tins is a state of ulceration with which there is a consomi- tftnt disease of a contiguous hone. CHARACTER. There appear various granular irregularities, and considerable ^eminences, from the interstitial deposit which takes place i„ , nt'"~,rhe fun& are l°<*c, soft, and of a dark colour,— , ",Stl,ar*«: is a ^ieS of very offensive fetorj-th, *&> of the sore are generally livid.—It has been preceded, and70 CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. is generally accompanied, by the peculiar deep-seated pain and other symptoms which characterize inflammation and mortifica- tion Of bone. See Diseases of the Bones. TREATMENT- Added to the general treatment of common ulcer, that proper for exfoliation and necrosis will be requisite. Vide Diseases of the Bones. CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. Ulcers which have their origin in, or are connected with, a specific affection of the constitution. 1. THE SCORBUTIC ULCER. CHARACTER. The scorbutic ulcer strikingly differs in appearance from the benign or healthy one first described.-lt is of a brown colour, and covered with a sanious ichor ;-the surface is irregular the texture of the granulations loose and unconnected, often, shooting forth fungous excrescences, which bleed upon the slightest touch.-It is surrounded by a livid areola, in winch pe- techia and macula are frequently observed—The discharge * thin and sanious.—It is accompanied by those circumstance, which mark the existence of scurvy in the system. SixMcdica, Writers on Scurvy. TREATMENT. Constitutionally.—The treatment laid down by medical writer for the cure of scurvy. XocrtM,/,—Vegetable and fermenting cataplasms, of which va rious species arc recommended.CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. f\ tion. The yeast poultice, or cataplasms fermcnti. See Mortifica- The carrot poultice : CATAPLASM A DAUCI. Boil any quantity of fresh carrot, until they are sufficiently soft to he beat into a smooth even pulp. Cancerous as well as scorbutic ulcers are much benefited by this application. Cataplasm of the bruised leaves of sorrel. Mr. Smidford. CATAPLASMA ACETOS/E. Boil any quantity of the bottom leaves of the rumex acetosa, or meadow sorrel, until they are sufficiently soft, then heat them into a smooth pulp. Poultices of the pulp of apples have been successfully cm- ployed on the continent; and also the following: CATAPLASMA MALI MATUIU. R. I'omoi •urn piilpse, Micae panis alhi, aa. %\], Misce. *1 Pulverized charcoal: the cataplasma carbonis. .See Mortifi- cation, Carbonic acid gaa has been used, by means of an apparatus constructed for this purpose. Oxygen gas, applied by a similar apparatus. Fomentations of cusparia. The admixture of lininientum rcruginis and mcl rosx, will, a "nail quantity of sulphuric acid. Lind.72 CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS, ■R. Linitncnti amiginis 3fs- Mellis rosse 3*j. Acidi sulphurici diluti 33. Miscc. A solution of nitre in vinegar. Patterson on the Scurvy. The gastric juice of graminivorous animals. Dr. Harness. At the Liverpool Infirmary, hops are employed as an external application. A dilute solution of muriatic and nitric acid >n the form of lotion, or formed into a liniment with honey. R. Acidimuriatici 5j. ad 31J. Aquse purse O.j. Fiat lotio. The topical use of various powdersj-bark.-rflYvr^-car- bonas ferri)-calumba,-rhubarb. JWr. Unctuous applications have been found prejudicial. Pressure with adhesive straps. II. THE SCROFULOUS ULCER. CHARACTER. Its appearance is that of a pallid and indolent ulcer, the sur- face of which - covered with a transparent shining fluid, gmng it the appearance which has been, termed gtassy.-Thc discharg. generally that whitish curdled matter, which characterizes scrofulous suppuration. The surrounding skin is often of * deep brown or livid colour;-the cd.es arc thick, retorted, am insensible; often, 1 ever, they arc inverted, and exqu.s.telj painful.-It has been preceded by other scrofulous appearance in the system.CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. 73 TREATMENT. Constitutionally.—Vide Medical Treatment of Scrofula. Locally.—Lotions of natural or artificial salt water;—a solu- tion of muriate of soda applied on linen cloths. R. Soda; muriatis Jj. Aqua; purge O. j. 'Fiat solutio. Keeping the parts immerse* in tepid sea-water for the space of fen or fifteen minutes. The camphorated fomentation of muriate of ammonia : FOMEN'TUM AMMOtflffi CUM CA3IPHORA. R. Fomenli communis if>ij. Ammonia; muriatis Jj. Spiritus camphorae Jij. Whilst the fomentation is hot, the muriate of ammonia is to b« dissolved in it, and the camphorated spirit added at the in- stant of its being employed. A cataplasm of the quercus rnarinus, simply bruised, as a substitute for sea-water. Mr. Hunter. The hemlock poultice:— CATAPLASMA CONII. 'Add to the fomentum conij as much oatmeal or linseed Hour as will form a poultice. The fresh leaves bruised may also be applied. Mr. JuslamonJ. The topical application of the iotio acidi nitrici ! Or of nitrate of silver. E •74 CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCEUS. R. Argenti niti-atis 9j. Aquae distillata; Jviij. Solve. Of sulphate of zinc.—Lotions of lime-water ;—of the liquor arsenicalis. The myrrh lotion :— LOTIO MYRRH*. R. Tinctura: myrrhae, Liquoris calcis, aa. Jij. Misce. Finely levigated burnt sponge;—carbonate of iron. Muriate of barytes. Dr. Crawford. Rhubarb. Mr. Home. The tinctura lytlffi applied by means of ft camel-hair pencil, or the ceratum lyttce. The cerate of carbonate of ammonia :—1 UNGUENTUM AMMONIAS CARBOKATIS. R. Ammoniac carbonatis 31s. Cerati Jl's. Misce. III. THE CANCEROUS ULCER. CHARACTER. The cancerous sore is extremely irregular;—on its surface are seen various prominences and excavations, from one or more of which a haemorrhage is frequently observed to proceed.—It is attended with a peculiarly burning and lancinating pain, which is generally intermittent.—The edges are thick, indurated, and often exquisitely painful; they are sometimes retorted, most fre- quently inverted.—The surface is often rendered still more irre* 3CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. 75 gular by a cicatrix running across it.—The discharge is a fetid ichor. * TREATMENT. The chief intentions in the treatment of ulcerated cancer arc — to correct the fetor of the discharge,—to allay pain and lessen irritability. By ablution with a dilute solution of the oxygenated muriatic acid. Dr. Crawford. R. Acidi oxy-muriatici Jj. AquiE distillate Jxj. Misce. The carrot poultice. The fermenting poultice. Carbonic acid gas, applied by an apparatus. Dr. Ewart. Pulverized charcoal, or the cataplasma carbonis. Arsenic: the arseniatc of antimony, with the addition of opium, is preferable to Plunkct's powder, or any other arsenical remedy. ARSEN'IAS ANTIMONII. R. Antimonii in pulverem triti Jij. Arscnici albi in pulverem triti Jj. These arc to be fluxed in a crucible, with a heat not too power- ful, otherwise the arsenic will be volatilized. After they have been melted together they arc to be reduced to powder. This caustic, under the title of arsenical caustic, was much used by the late Mr. Jnstamond, in the cure of cancers. It. is generally believed to be the best of all arsenical caustics, and when united with powdered opium its effects arc equally cer- tain, and said to be less painful.76 CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. The liquor arsenicalis applied as a lotion, or mixed with meal in the form of poultice. An infusiou of the lauro-cerasus. Prof. Richter. Dr. Chef- ton. Cataplasm with acetate of potass. Mr. Naylor. Diluted tinctura ferri muriatis. Mr. Jitstampnd. R. Tinctura; ferri muriatis Jfs. Aquae distillatae Jvijfs. Fiat lotio. The nitrate of silver joined with opium. R. Argenti nitratis gr. viij. Tinctura; opii Jfs. Aqua; distillatae O. j. Fiat lotio. Oleum lini is said to have been successfully used. In order to allay pain, fomentations of poppies,—fomenta- tions and ointments of conium,—digitalis,—belladonna,—hyo- scyamus,—liumulus,—-nicotiana.—The application of meal to the surface.—A blister applied near to the ulcerated part. IV. THE VENEREAL ULCER. Vide Syphilis. V. THE PHAG.EDENIC ULCER. Of this there are two species : — 1. " A sloughing with ulcera- tion, and each in succession."—n. Ulceration kept up by the irritation of secreted pus, causing extension of the ulcer with- out sloughing. Vide Adams, Observations on Morbid Poisons.CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. 77 TREATMENT. Internally.—For remedies appropriated to the first species, see Mortification. The second species requires oxymuriate of mercury,—nitrate of mercury,—with decoctions of mezereon,—sarsaparilla,—cin- chona, or guaiacum :—conium,—hyoscyamus,—ferrum ammo- niatum,—tinctura ferri muriatis,—arsenieum. R. Liquoris hydrargyri oxy-muriatis Jj. Decocti sarsaparilla; compositi Jxj. Fiat mistura quotidie sumenda partitis haustibus. R. Guttara .1 albaruui Domini Ward, No. VI. Decocti sarsaparilla.' compositi Jviij. Misee.—Sumat partem quartam quater in die. R. Oxy-muriatis hydrargyri gr. fs. Decocti cinchona? Jvij. Syrupi aurantii Jfs. Fiat mistura, cujus sumat partem quartam quater in die. R. Liquoris arsenicalis gutt. vj. Decocti cinchona; Jij. Fiat haustas ter in die sumendus. R. Liquoris arsenicalis gaitt. vj. Decocti sarsaparilla; Jiij. Fiat potio ter quotidie bibenda. A strong decoction of guaiacum may be the vehicle of the oxy- muriate anil nitrate of mercury, and of the solution of ur- solic.78 CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. R, Ferri ammoniati gr. vj. Confectionis roste quantum suflieit. Fiat pilula ter in die siunenda. R. Tincturae nuiriatis ferri 3j. Aquie cinnamomi Jvij. Fiat mistura.—Sumat cochlearia iij. ter quotidie. Tbe best way of administering conium and hyoseyamus is in the extract, live grains of which should be given three times a day for a week, when three more grains are to be taken daily lor another week, and so on until a full dose is administered. Locally.—The topical applications recommended for mortifi- cation are equally useful to the sloughing phagedenic ulcer. In the second species, fomentations of conium and bella- donna;—the cataplasma fermenti;—a solution of opium, or epiurn in the form of oinfment. R. Tincturae opii 3ij. Aqua; distillatie jij. R. Extracti opii pulverisati jj. Cerati Jj. Fiat ceratum. A dilute solution of muriated tincture of iron, or nmmoniacal iron. R. Tincturae ferri nuiriatis 3j. Aqua; distillatie Jviij. Misce.CONSTITUTIONAL VITIATED ULCERS. 79 R. Fcrri nmmoniati gr. xij. Aquro distilliitta Jviij. Solve. A solution of arsenic; the liquor arsen'tcalis made into a cata- plasm with meal. A solution of nitrate of mercury;—of nitric acid;—pulverized charcoal, or the cataplasma carbonis. VI. THE CONTAGIOUS ULCER. Accounts are given of this species of ulcer by Henderson, Ballard, and Edwards, in the Medical Journal. CHARACTER. It is peculiar to seamen and soldiers.—It generates a poison capable of converting other healthy ulcers into its own nature. —It generally appears in the inner side of the leg near the ancle.—It discharges a thin acrimonious matter, which excori- ates the neighbouring parts.—It exhales a putrid fetor, and frequently shoots forth fungous excrescences;—the leg becomes (Edematous and painful,—the sore bleeds upon the slightest touch,—putrid sloughs are frequently east off, and often a caries takes place.—If suffered to go on, hectic fever ensues, with Colliquative sweats, diarrhcea, &c. j and the termination is sometimes fatal. TREATMENT. The following remedies are found most efficacious: The carrot and yea t poultice;—the local use of tonics and stimu- lants, as lotions of tincture of myrrh with bark,—of nitrate of mercury,—of sulphate of copper;—camphorated spirit ;—cam- phorated vinegar; — nitric oxydc oT mercury;—the cold salt bath; —the application of the jucie of limes. K 480 THE HABITUAL ULCE.R. R. Tincturae myrrh£e jj. Decocti cinchona; Jvij. Fiat lotio. R. Niti'atis argenti gr. viij. Aqua' distillate 3N''j- Solve. R. Cupri sulphatis 3j. Liquoris calcis J viij. Misce. If irritable and painful, the hemlock and poppy fomentations; —the internal administration of bark with steel, and vegetahlt fermenting substances. THE HABITUAL ULCER. An ulcer chiefly in the lower extremities, which has been of so long standing that the constitution has become habituated to it, and none of those processes spontaneouly take place by which the cure of ulcers is effected. TREATMENT. The edges of the wound are to be made as nearly as possible to approximate by means of adhesive straps.—Mr. Baynton has published on this method of cure : he directs the limb to be encircled with straps of adhesive plaster for the space of an inch both above and below the sore; the straps should be about an inch and an half in breadth, and made of the emplastruin re- sina: spread on calico. After their application, the whole of the affected parts should lie defended with pieces of soft calico; hBURNS AND SCALDS.. 81 ealico bandage is then to be applied from the foot to the knee, with as much firmness as the patient can hear; and lastly, that •part of the limb which is the scat (if the ulcer, is to be well moistened with cold spring water poured from a large teapot. The cure is assisted by moderate mechanical motion, and elec- tricity.—During and after the healing of the ulcers, the patient should use frequent mercurial purges.—Issues are also recom- mended.—In persons who are the subjects of chronic visceral disease, the suppression of such long-accustomed evacuations wdl be improper. BURNS AND SCALDS. The injury produced by the application of intense degrees of heat to the surface of the body may be in three different states : —First, wherein a state of simple inflammation is produced without a destruction of the cuticle;—secondly, where the cuticle is cither elevated in the form of vesicles containing a serous fluid, or totally destroyed;—and thirdly, where the injury has been so great as to destroy the subjacent cellular or muscular substance. There is generally excessive pain, and if the burn or scald be extensive, a fever is induced, with an extremely rapid pulse,—dry foul tongue,—(lushed countenance,—sometimes ex- treme irritability and restlessness, at others torpor and often coma.—It not unfrequently proves fatal.82 BURNS AND SCALDS. TREATMENT. Two different and opposite modes have of late been proposed for the treatment of burns, each of which has numerous advo- cates. Sir James Earle recommends the use of cold applications, and the antiphlogistic treatment: he directs the parts to be immediately immersed in cold water; in water cooled by ice; or that ice or snow, if either can be procured, should be applied to them. Mr. Kentish, on (he contrary, advises the topical and inter- nal administration of powerful stimuli.—His plan of treatment is as follows : The parrs are lirst to be bathed two or three times with spirit of wine, with camphorated spirit, or oil of turpentine made warm by standing in hot water; — after which a liniment is to be applied, composed of the ceratum resin* liavae softened with turpentine. P<. Cerati resinae fBj. Oloi terebinthinaa O. fs. Add the oil of turpentine to the cerate previously melted, and mix. This first dressing need not in general remain on more than twenty-four hours, and will very seldom be required a second time. The burnt surface should be as little as possible exposed to the air between the dressings. The second application, ablution with proof spirit ; and thus successively milder applications, till the cure is effected. Internally; xthcr, brandy, opium; afterwards wine, ale, &c. until suppuration takes place, when the most bland applica- tions arc to be substituted fur the stimulating.83 BURNS AND SCALDS. Mr. Cleghora, a brewer at Edinburgh (see Medical Facts and Observations, vol. ii.), has treated burns with success, by ap- plying, in the first place, vinegar, until the pain abates; — secondly, an emollient poultice;—and thirdly, as soon as any secretion appears, by covering the sore with powdered chalk. Lime-water, with linseed oil, has been often used :— LIXIMEXTVM OLE1 CUM CALCE Ph. Guy. R. Olei Hni Jjfs. Liquoris calcis Jiij. Misce. Fiat linimentum partibus affectis applicandum. Some surgeons are very partial to the application of lime- w*ter and spirit immediately after the accident, if the cuticle be entire. R. Spiritfts tenuioris Jiij. Liquoris calcis Jvj. Misce. T'nis should be used cold, and the parts kept constantly covered with it by means of fine linen cloths. Dr. Underwood advises the application of liquefied soap. Many experienced surgeons apply a mixture of calamine cerate and acetate of lead : — CERATUM CALAMINE CUM ACETATE PLUMRI. R. Cerati calaininae trjj. Liquoris plumbi acetatis Ji.j. Misce. Raw potatoes pounded or FcrapeJ to a proper degree of fineness, may be advantageously employed. E GBURNS AND SCALDS. 84 Perhaps the best application, immediately after the accident, is spirit of wine, united with the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus, or liquor calcis. R. Liquoris plumbi acetatis diluti Jxiij. Spiritus fenuioris Jiij. Fiat lotio. If much febrile heat ensue, gentle laxatives, and the saline medicines. To alleviate pain, when excessive, the internal and external use of opium. Mr. Kentish recommends that powdered chalk should be applied to the furrows around the sloughs, as well for the purpose of absorbing excessive or acrimonious discharge, as afterwards to check exuberant granulations. If the injury have been very severe, suppuration, and the separation of sloughs, should be promoted by applying foment- ations and emollient cataplasms. A dilute solution of nitric acid is also in this state an excellent application. The deformities arising from the constriction of extensive cicatrices must be obviated as much as possible by bandage and position. Particular attention must be given to this point where joints are concerned, and in burns of the neck; in which latter aase means must be devised to keep the head in a proper position.85 PARONYCHIA, OR WHITLOW. The paronychia is a phlegmonous tumor, occupying the extremity of the finger—From its different seat, it has been elassed into four species. The Jim species is situated around the nail, immediately under the cuticle.—It appears in the form of a small welling, at- tended with a degree of redness and some pain, at the root or at one corner of the nail ;-the skin is very little discoloured;- it quickly advances to suppuration, when the cuticle appears almost transparent—After the contents of this little abscess have been evacuated, the ulcer soon spontaneously heals—The. loss of the nail is however in some instances, through improper treatment, the consequence of the disease. TREATMENT. Lotions of camphorated spirit, or a solution of the muriate •f ammonia, to resolve the inflammation. R. Ammonia; niuriatis Jj. Acidi acetic: impuri Jij. Spiritus tenuioris Jj. Aquae distillate txii. Fiat lotio. J J The ulceration that remain* after all inflammation and sys- tematic fever have subsided, is sometime, very indolent and dif- ficult to heal: the following applications are serviceable.THE WHITLOW. 86 CERATUM FLL'MBI COMPOSITUM. R. Liquoris plumbi acctatis jfs. Cera flava: Jiv. Olei olivre Jix. Camphora Jfs. The camphor should be rubbed down with a small portion of the oil, and the remaining cil and wax being melted toge- ther over a gentle fire, the acetate of lead should be stirred in; and when the mixture is nearly cold, the dissolved camphor is to be added, and the whole briskly agitated until cold. If suppuration ensue, marked by one white, prominent spot, the cuticle should be immediately removed, and an exit given to the contained fluid. The second species is in the cellular membrane, at the extre- mity of the finger.—Its attack and progress are more severe than in the cutaneous, and attended with more acute and throb- bing pain ; the swelling is more uniform, and there is a consi- derable elevation of the skin; the suppuration is more slow, and matter often insinuates itself beneath the nail. TREATMENT. Long-continned immersion in warm water;—the application of spirituous and saturnine lotions, and the lotion of muriate of ammonia, page 67. If these fail in effecting a resolution of the tu- mor, an early and free incision should be made through the integu- ments, and carried to the bottom of the diseased part ; after which the blood may be suffered to How for some lime, and the opening treated as a common wound. The thud species is sealed underneath the sheath of the flexorTHE WHITLOW. g7 tendons of the fingers.—It is infinitely more violent and 'dan- gerous than the two preceding.—The matter meeting with greater difficulty in finding its way outwards, often insinuates itself among the tendons, and gets into the hand, where a fluctuation is generally felt under the aponeurotic- expansion of the palmaris musc!e.-The pain is generally most excruciating, and extends along the internal condyle of the humerus up to the axilla, often occasioning a painful tumefaction of the whole arm. There is great inflammation of the parts; much restlessness; a considerable degree of fever, and more or less delirium, accord- ing to the greater or less violence of the complaint. TREATMENT. An early incision through the strong ligamentous bands, Which confine the tendons.—Should the collection of matter- have already extended into the palm of the hand, the aponeu- rosis of the palmaris should be cautiously, yet freely, divided; —opium should be administered to allay pain and irritation, and the fever, if considerable, treated as an idiophatic com- plaint. The fourth species is where the matter is formed beneath the periosteum, or where the bone itself is diseased.—In this, the pain is much more deeply seated, ami, though not so acute, is more distressing than in the former species; in some cases, so much so, as early to induce fever and delirium.—The disease is more local than (he preceding! the arm and hand being little affected, and the swelling of f!,e part much-less considerablej —the finger frequently becomes livid, is covered with little blisters containing a bloody scrum, and threatens mortification. TIIEA T.Ml.NT. When the above-described violent pain occurs at the extremity88 FURUNCULUS, OR BOIL. of the finger, anil proceeds to induce fever and delirium, it will If be advisable, although no external marks of disease may be pre- I sent, to make an incision at the extremity, or a little to the side hi of the finger, and carry it down to the bone; by this means kl sometimes a small portion of dark-coloured sanies will be evacu- Hi ated, at others blood alone.—If this prove unsuccessful, it "lias I been advised to amputate the finger : this will, however, in the I early stage seldom be necessary.—When the bone is carious, re- course must be had to the treatmeut recommended for necrosis. It will in general soon become loose, and with a forceps may be withdrawn from the sore parts; after which, lint may be inter- posed between the edges of the wound, that granulations may arise and fill up the cavity. FURUNCULUS, OR BOIL. CHARACTER. A hard, circumscribed, exquisitely painful phlegmonous tu^ L Bior, generally appearing under the figure of a cone, the base of which is considerably below the surface of the surrounding skin. (. —Upon the most prominent part of the boil, there is commonly I a whitish or livid pustule, extremely sensible to the touch, and . immediately beneath this is the seat of the abscess.—The mat- I ter is generally stow in forming, and is seldom found to exist | in considerable quantity.—Its seat is the cellular membrane of j, any part of the body, its size seldom exceeds that of a pigeon'*THE CHILBLAIN. S9 TREATMENT. Suppuration should be promoted by cataplasms, fomentations, the Ion- exposure of the part to the vapour of hot water;—by stimulant plasters, and other means laid down for the treat- ment of slow suppuration. .See <ibsce$s. Where there is a disposition in the body to the formation of boils, Peruvian bark, preparations of iron, acids, and sea-bathing, have been found serviceable; as also the use of diuretics, as th« supertartrate and nitrate of potash, tartarized soda, and the vegetable and mineral alkalis.—Pearson. PERNIO, OR CHILBLAIN. CHARACTER. A painful inflammatory swelling, sometimes of a florid, more I frequently of a deep purple, or leaden colour, appearing in the fingers, toes, heels, and other extreme parts of the body.—The pain is not constant, but rather pungent and intermitting ; ac- companied with an insupportable itching and sense of tingling ; especially when exposed to heat.—The part often becomes ccde- l matous, and ulceration not unfrequently supervenes; in which case a vesication, or simple separation of the cuticle, is first ob- server!, and below this there appears a foul, irregular, painful Ulcer, which, by neglect, will increase to a considerable magni- tude.—It sometimes terminates in gangrene. CAUSE. Exposure to severe degrees of cold.90 THE CHILBLAIN. TREATMENT. Pveventive,—Carefully defending tbc parti from external cold by warm clothing, or the application ol" adhesive plasters;-— giving tone nnd action to the parts subject to the disease, by exercise or friction; — hardening the cutidc, and promoting the circulation, by stimulants; as alkohol,—oil of camphire,—oil of turpentine,—lotions of a saturated solution of muriate of soda,— of muriate of ammonia,—or of alum. R. Soda; muriatis Jjfs. Aquas Jvjfs. Solve. R. Ammonia: muriatis jfs. Sodas muriatis 3iIj. Aqua; Jvij. Fiat lotio. LIQUOR ALUMIN'IS COMTOSITV*. R. Aluminis, Acidi acetici, Zinci sulphatis, :>:'.. Jfs. Aquae ferventis O. ij. Dissolve the alum and zinc in boiling water: then strain through paper. /// the inflamed state.—The topical application of camphorated spirit, joined with vinegar;—a solution of alum, or cataplasm with the addition of pulverized alum ; — spirit of rosemary, to which a small portion of oil of turpentine has been added. R. Spiritus camphors: Jiv. Acidi acetici Jij. Miscc.THE CARBUNCLE. J)l R. Alutuinis 3ij, Acitli acetiei O, J. Spiritus tenuioria O. fs. Misce. Cloths dipped in this liquor should be applied to thi affected parts, and kept pretty constantly moist. In the ulcerated state.—The treatment recommended for in- dolent ulcer—The following application is also esteemed : CERATUM MELLIS CUM TEREBINTHINA. R. Mollis despumati, Terebinthiiic-e vulgaris, singulortim fbj. Pollinis tritici quantum sufheit. The honey and the turpentine being liquefied together, the finest wheat flour is to be stirred in to give it the consistency of a cerate. ANTHRAX, OR CARBUNCLE. CHARACTER AND SYMPTOMS. A deeply seated, hard, immoveable, and distinctly circum- scribed tumor; generally appearing in the posterior parts of % body, and most frequently attacking people above the n'ddle age, and luxurious livers.—About its centre it is of a my led, purple, or livid colour, but is much paler, and often legated, towards its circumferencc—Thcrc is often an ex- ensive areola of a brownish hue.—It is accompanied with an92 THE CARBUNCLE. intensely painful sense of burning;-rsmall purulent vesication*■ or pustules appear, which, when ruptured, evacuate a ilark-« coloured sanies, and often discover ;i sphacelated base, It usually commences with a small pimple, which runs deeper and deeper into the cellular membrane, until the base becomes iiu i extremely broad.—In the beginning, it is sometimes accompa--jq nied with symptoms of general inflammation, but more com" p«. monly with rigors,—sickness,—faintings, succeeded by great w, prostration of strength,—languid pulse,—and symptoms of j . typhus.—It not unfrequently degenerates into a sloughing ulcer. 1 i. It is sometimes accompanied with a miliary eruption, orwilki fl petechia; disposed in different parts of the body. TREATMENT. Internally.—Nutritive generous diet,—wine,—Peruvian bark, —preparations of iron and other tonics,—opium,—aromatics, &c. , Locally.—Lotions of the sulphate of zinc, or of a solution of tinctura ferri muriatis, should be kept constantly about tWei , disease by continually moistening soft rags. R. Zinci sulphatis 3iij. Spiritus rectificati Jiij. Aquae pura: jxiij. Fiat lotio. R. Tiucturae muriatis ferri jj. Aqua; pura; jxv. Miscc pro lotione. Fomentations of oak bark,—or the camphorated foments- ^ tion of muriate of ammonia.—Should sloughing supervene, 1 recourse will be had to the appropriate treatment. See Mortifi- cation,93 CONTUSIONS AND SPRAINS. A contusion is an injury to the soft parts 0f the body, ocea- »onea by a all, blow, or by viok.nt pressure) ^J'J^ o oss of substance-It is usuaIlv accomp8nied ^ ^ of blood or other fluids, from the niptm, of SOffie Qf ^ ^ vessels, by which the parts acquire a deep red, leaden, or livid olour-When the injury has been severe, a sphacelus is not an untrequent consequence. A sprain is a painful and inflammatory local affection, owin- to the over-distention of a tendon or ligament-It most fre- quently happens in the wrists, knees, and ancles-It is Gene- rally accompanied with an extravasation of blood ; givmS to he arguments the discoloured appearance above described- Injune, of this kind are sometimes accompanied with loss of »ot«m for many weeks; and often a thickening of the par,, takes place, which continues for the remainder of life, and pro- duces, at particular times, and upon any exertion, a recurrence ot severe pain. TREATMENT. Immediately after the accident, long-continued immersion ot the part in water heated,o H2°._TI,e application of leeches — Stringent applications; such as vinegar, in the form of Cata- lan,, made by mixing oafn.cal and vinegar;-cnmphorate.l ,p,r" ;~'CL'S ofrcd ttine 5-cmbrocations of ammonia, soap, and cainphirc. CATAI'LASMA ACim ACETICI. , This is formed by mixing vinegar in a sufficienl quantity of cither oatmeal, linseed meal, or crumb of bnmd. If linseed meal b«CONTUSIONS AND SPRAINS. 94 used alone, it is apt, from its tenacity, to become hard and dry thus occasioning a degree of inconvenience to the part upor which it is applied. Linseed meal is, however, very useful foi giving this tenacity in a proper degree to the poultice when niixec with either of the other articles. EMBROCATIO SAPONIS CUM AMMONIA. R. Saponis albi dun jxv. Camphors ^v. Spiritfis rectificati O. iv. Liquoris ammonia; O.j. Digest the soap in the spirit of wine and liquor of ammonii previously mixed, till it is perfectly dissolved, then add the cam- phire. This embrocation is selected from the formulae of Guy's hospi- tal. It is an elegant and a powerful external stimulant. EMBROCATIO CAMPHOR/E COMPOSITAd R. Camphorae Jiij. Acidi acetici O. ij. Spiritus rectificati O. iij. Aquae O. j. Dissolve the camphire in the spirit, and add the vinegar an<* water previously mixed. EMBROCATIO AMMONIA ACETATIS. R. Carbonatis ammonia: Jij. Acidi acetici quantum suflicit ad alkali safcu- randum. Spiritus tenuioris O. jfj. Miscc.SARCOMATOUS TUMORS. 95 This is the cmbrocatio communis of Guy's Hospital, in com- mon use there for sprains and bruises. The following are also very ffood stimulating applications R- Linimenti saponis compositi jk\v. Misce Liquoris carbonatis ainmoniie '•Misce. t\ ' Misce. Misce R. Linimenti camphors compositi 3x. saponis compositi jvj. R. Linimenti ammonia; carbonatis ;jx. camphoric compositi 3vj. R. Olei cajapute 3X. 1 terebinthinse rectificati jvj. R. Olei oliva; jx. terebinthinae rectificati jir. Liquoris ammonia; carbonatis 3if. fiat embrocatio. Where a weakness remains behind in consequence of asprain gNing cold water every rooming upon the part, and Scaring I •ahco bandar to support it, will be the most effectual means of BTigorating it.96 TUMORS. SARCOMATOUS TUMORS. These are vascular tumors arising from a morbid growth o skin.—They generally begin with a small warty projection which soon becomes pendulous, and sometimes, though not oftem enlarges to a considerable size.—As the tumor increases, an< becomes weighty, it draws the skin from the neighbouring parts and a pedicle is thus formed.—In advanced life it become: smooth, livid, and in some instances has degenerated int« cancer. Of this species arc tuevi viatcrni, or original marks, whicl ».ve small excrescences, sometimes hardly arising above flii cuticle, at others considerably protuberant;—they are firm fleshy, and very vascular, consisting solely of a congeries o vessels. Smaller tumors of the sarcomatous kind are denominate! warts j these arc usually confined to the hands and lingers, anc pudenda, where, they are often situated in great number, an. follow as a consequence of the venereal disease, though not theim selves partaking of the venereal taint. Corns are small tumors,of a horny nature, situated on the fee and toes : they consist in a diseased state of the cuticle producci by pressure. DIAGNOSIS. Sarcomatous tumors are distinguished from all others by th hardness of their texture;—by their great vascularity;—by th absence of pain and inflammation.SARCOMATOUS TUMORS. 97 TREATMENT. When .mall in size, they are to be removed, either by jtronj stimulants, or by escharotics, as they happen to be more or lest firm in texture: previous to the application of these, the cutiel« may, if indurated, be softened by immersion of the part in warm water, or by fomentations or emollient cataplasms. The stimulants commonly employed for this purpose are— savine, rhubarb, ipecacuanha, verdigvise, R. Pulveris rhabarbari, L t , . ipecacuanha?, singulorum partes seqtialcs. Fiat pulvis. 1 PULVIS SABIX/E COMPOSITCS. R. Pulveris sabinae Jij. Acetatis cupri, ■ Hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi, aa. Jfs. Fiat pulvis. The tinctura ferri muriatij is sometimes successful. A solution of oxy-muriate of mercury in alkohol: R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriatis jj. Spiritus rectificati Jij. Fiat solutio. A solution of the nitrate of mercury. A solution of muriate of ammonia : R. Ammonia; muriatis Jj. Spiritus rectificati quantum sufficit ad solutionem ejus. As escharotics, nitrate of silver,— muriate of antimony—arsenic. When the tumor has attained a largesize, removal by ligature, or by excision, will be advisable ;—if pendulous, and hangin by a small base, the former mode, is preferable ;—if, on the c trary, the ba9e be broad, excision will he the only mode of exSTEATOMATOUS TUMORS. 98 pation : this consists simply in a cautious dissection of the tumor from the surrounding parts. Corns should be secured from pressure by means «f « piece of ■thick adhesive piaster, in the centre of which a hole has been made for the reception of the projecting part. This, with fre- quent immersion in warm water, and occasional paring, has ■often beeu found to remove them.—An effectual mode of extir- pation is by the application of a. ;small blister; the effect .of which will generally be to raise them with the cuticle. STEATOMATOUS TUMORS. These consist in a morbid growth of the adipose membrane: their first appearance is usually a Si_ all excrescence, soft and. cedematous; this gradually incieasing, often attains an enor- mous size.—They are free from pain and inflammation and dis- colouration of the cuticle, and occasion inconvenience to the patient only by their bulk ; sometimes, however, after they have' become extremely large, inflammation and ulceration take place. They are soft to the touch; feeling not unlike the omentum contained within a hernial sac. DIAGNOSIS. The characteristic marks are—the softness of'thcir texture;—- their great bulk;—the absence of pain and inflammation. TREATMENT. Removal, either by ligature, or by-excision : the latter mode is preferable, unless the tumor is extremely pendulous, and hangs -by a small pedicle.—The operation of excision is in general a , simple one, except in certain situations, as in the neck, where great delicacy and caution are required, to prevent doing injury to contiguout important parts ; — in performing it, sufficient in- tegument should be saved to effect a consequent union by th? first intention. 6.ENCYSTED TUMORS. 99 ENCYSTED TUMORS. The true encysted tumor is a collection of matter contained within a cyst formed by adhesions in the cellular membrane.—— From the nature of its contents, it has obtained different appel- lations, as atheromatous, meliceratous, &c.—Its seat is the cel- lular membrane of any part of the body ; its size usually that of an egg; and it seldom or never increases to a great bulk.—It- begins with a distinctly circumscribed swelling, hard to the feel, and unattended by pain.— It gradually gets larger and larger, until some slight inflammation takes place, when it becomes in a small degree painful, and a fluctuation is soon afterwards dis- tinctly perceived.—As it slowly enlarges, the vessels of the inte« guments become varicose, and in some instances, though nut often, slightly livid. DIAGNOSIS. It is distinguished from common abscess by the extreme slow- ness of its progress to maturation, and by the absence of pain and inflammation. TREATMENT. Various stimulating applications have been recommended iti order to induce suppuration ; the chief of which are— EMI'LASTR V M EUPHORIUI. R. Kniplastri picis compositi jiv. Euphorbii pulverisati 31s. The compound pitch plaster being meltid, the euphoibium, in fine powder, is to be added, and the mixture kept stirring until nearly cold. Or, _ R. Picis B-iir^undica; Jiv. Euphorbii jfs. Tcvebinthina: vulgaris quantum suflicU- r «THE GANGLION. 100 The cmplastrum cumini ;—the emplastrum ladani compositura, .and galbani compositura. Electricity;—dry cupping ;—salt brine j—diluted volatile spirit. It has also been customary to evacuate the matter by seton ; but the most effectual mode of removal, and that now usually practised, is extirpation with the knife.—In performing this, the cyst, still containing the matter, is to be carefully dissected from the surrounding muscular and cellular substance, and suf- ficient integument is to be saved to effect an union by the first intention. GANGLION. A ganglion is a tumor formed by a preternatural collection I of fluid within the vagina of a tendon or a bursa mucosa.—It is - situated under or between tendons, and generally near to a joint. —It begins with a small, moveable, elastic swelling, attended with little or no pain or discolouration of the cuticle.—It sel- dom attains a large size, and in general shows no sign of in- flammation ; yet sometimes an inflammation supervenes, when: adhesions not unfrequently take place among the tendons, by I which their uiot'ons are often impeded, and the joint rendered useless. TREATMENT. The removal of the tumor may first be attempted by means l of pressure; for this purpose the'application of sheet-lead has) most frequently proved effectual.—Stimulant applications also sometimes produce an absorption of the fluid; of these the best are—mercury, applied by friction, —blisters,—a solution i Of muriate Of ammonia,—electricity.—If these prove unsuccess- ful, the collected Quid may be evacuated by a small opening : made with the point of a lancet.—After the contents have been J thus let out, the orifice should be immediately closed, and |101 BRONCHOCELE. pressure applied to produce an adhesion between the sides < f the sac—In some instances, the cyst may be detached and drawn out with the tenaculum; but in attempting this, great caution is required, especially if the tumor be situated very near a joint.—Collections of this kind have often been removed by the same cause that induced them; i.e. a blow, or other ucci - dental injury : hence it has been proposed to employ these arti- ficially, as a mode of cure. BRONCHOCELE. A tumor on the fore part of the neck, formed by an enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland.—The progress of the swelling is extremely gradual, and in general the skin lung retains its na- tural appearance. It is at first soft, but as it advances in size it acquires a great degree of hardness; the skin become* of a brownish or copper colour, and the veins of the integuments are varicose.—The face is subject to frequent (lushing:—1 he pa- tient, often complains of headaches, and likewise of pains ihooting through the body of the tumor.—It is occasionally ac- companied with hysteric affections. CAUSES. The inhabitants of Derbyshire, anil other mountainous parts <>f our own country; and those of the Alps, and adjacent moun- tains, on the continent; are peculiarly subject to this disorder.— Anions the hitter it is known by the name of goitre, and it» origin is ascribed to the use of snow-water.—It is considered n scrofulous affection of the gland. TREATMENT. Locally. —A solution of sua]) and saponaceous liniments; — the emplastrura bydrargyri ;—the emplastrum amraonitr, and102 BHONCHOCELE. emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro;—mercurial friction upon the part. Internally.—The medicine almost universally employed for the cure of this disease is burnt sponge.—The mode of administering this remedy employed uy Dr. Bate of Coventry, as given by Mr. Wilmar, is as follows : The day after the moon hath been at the full, the patient is to take a vomit, and on the succeeding day a purge; on the third night, a bolus, composed of ten grains of calcined sponge ; and the like quantity of calcined cork and burnt pumice-stone is to be placed under the tongue, and being allowed to dissolve very gradually, is to be swallowed. This is to be repeated for seven successive nights, and in the forenoon of each day a powder is to be given, consisting of flowers of chamomile, gentian-root, and seeds of lesser centaury, each in powder five grains. On the eighth day the purge is to be repeated; and on the wane of the succeeding moon the same process is directed to be recom- menced, unless the disease is cured before. The vomit is only to precede the first course of the medicine. Dr. Cheston has found the following plan, which is an im- provement upon the Coventry receipt, successful in numerous cases before the structure of the part has been too morbidly de- ranged.—A dose of submuriate of mercury, one or two grains, must be given for three successive nights ; and on the following morning a purge. Every night afterwards, for three weeks, half a drachm of calcined sponge, formed into a troche with muci- lage of gum acacia, is to be put under the tongue, and allowed to dissolve gradually; when the solution is to be swallowed. At the expiration of this time the whole is to be repeated. By Mr. Prosser the following powder is recommended to be taken an hour before breakfast, for a fortnight or three weeksr 4 ENLARGEMENTS OF ABSORBENT GLANDS. 103 and to be repeated every alternate fortnight; together, with the. use of the pilula hydrargyri administered at night: R. Sulphureti hydrargyri rubri," Millepedis in pulverem triti, Spongia: ustai, singulorura gr. xt. Misce. Sulphuret of potash dissolved in water lias been employed with success, by Dr. Richer, in cases where calcined sponge had failed. R. Sulphureti potassa 31s. Aqua? distillatae O. ij. Fiat solutio in dies sumendft, partitis haustibus. CANCER. Vide Diseases of the Breast—of the Testicle,—Cancerous Ulcer, &.C.—where the symptoms and treatment of cancer, as appearing in glands, arc amply enumerated. ENLARGEMENTS OF THE ABSORBENT GLANDS. As the absorbent glands of the neck are those which most frequently become diseased, a description of these in their dis- eased state will serve as an example of the rest. SYMPTOMS. The tumor is commonly preceded by catarrh from exposure to cold; during the continuance of which the glands behind the ear become sore and painful; from these an irritation is com- municated to the lymphatics at the side of the necli, when a tumor commences, which, in constitutions so predisposed, often paves the way for one of the most formidable diseases of which the human body is susceptible, by proving the exciting cause to10i ENLARGEMENTS OP ABSORBENT GLANDS. a long train of scrofulous affections. The gland continues f enlarge, but its progress to maturation is extremely slow j there is seldom any considerable pain, neither is that degree of in- flammation present which is common to abscess in general; anil it often increases to a large size before fluctuation is perceptible; —the skin acquires a brown or livid colour.—At length, and if preventive means are not duly taken, ulceration of the integu- ments ensues, and a thick curd-like matter, or white coagulum floating in a thin fluid, is discharged. An inflammation of the absorbent glands of the neck, by causing an irritation of the surrounding cellular substance, sometimes gives rise to the formation of a steatomatous or sar- comatous tumor, which often enlarges to a considerable size. This generally becomes pendulous, and sometimes so huge as to extend to the shoulder.—It is more vascular than the common steatoma, and from the constitution of the patient does not ap- pear to originate in a scrofulous affection. CAUSES. When the tumor assumes the above character, it may be uni* yersally deemed a scrofulous affection.—Enlargements of the glands from other causes almost universally terminate by resolu- tion ; or, if suppuration supervene, the progress is rapid, as im the common phlegmon. TREATMENT. Locally.—la the incipient state, discussion should be at- tempted by the application of leeches and cold lotions ; as, the solution of sulphate of zinc,—a solution of alum,—or the liquor plumbi acetatis dilulus, with the addition of about a quarter part of vinegar or camphorated spirit.—If the inflam- mation be trilling, a weak solution of hydrargyruj owmuriH- Vus in lime-water;ENLARGEMENTS OF ABSOREENT GLAND!?. 10. R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriatis gr. x. Liquoris calcis O. fs. A solution of muriate of ammonia. A mixture of fresh bile with the compound saponaceous lini- ment. Plasters of soap, ammoniacum, and mercury. ( old poultices, with salt-water, or sea-water,.and bread. I ATAVLASM A SODS MURIATIS. Common Salt Poultice. R. Pulvcris lini, Micae panis, singulorum partes xquales. Aquce, sodiB muriate saturate, quantum suflicit. This form of poultice has lately been much esteemed. After being some time used, it generally occasions very considerable redness upon the surface, and excites inflammation, when its use should be discontinued until the redness departs, and then ap- plied again. This practice iometimes disperses the swelling. Hemlock, bruised and applied to the part. Mercurial ointment—mercurial plaster—soap cerate. The quercus marinus, or sea tang, bruised and formed into a cataplasm. Dr. Underwood recommends an epithem composed of Hour, honev, the yolk of an egg, and yeast. All warm and emollient applications should be avoided, until the attempts at resolution have failed, and the fluctuation of n fluid becomes distinctly perceptible, when the process of sup- puration is to lie expedited by these means. Most surgeons agree in the propriety of permitting the bubo to rupture after the ineffectual use of some of the above reine- r 5106 ANEURISM. dies ; whilst others strongly recommend the evacuation of the matter through a small valvular opening, and a consequent ap- plication of the lotio aluminis : R. Aluminis purilicati Jls. Aqua' distillate O. j. The earlier the incision is made the better, as it prevents the deformity which so often succeeds swellings of this nature, when allowed to ulcerate through the integuments. ANEURISM. An aneurism is a tumor formed by the yielding of the coats of on artery ; containing blood, and having a pulsatory motion.— The observations and experiments of Mr. Hunter and SirEverard Home have proved the fallacy of Haller's doctrine, who ascribed <his yielding solely to a weakness of that particular portion of the vessel which formed the tumor; they have shown that aneurism arises from a diseased state of the coats of an artery inducing a preternatural dilatation : this diseased state is most probably a tendency to form bone, as the iuterual coat of the artery is al- ways thickened and opaque, and frequently ossified, and as the disease is most commonly met with in elderly people. It may occur in any part of the arterial system; but it is most fre- quently met with in the ham, the thigh, about half way between the bifurcation of the aorta and the renal vessels, at the curvature of the same vessel in the chest, in the neck, sometimes in the arm, and in the groin. SYMTTOMS. fopliteal aneurism, I eing that which occurs ©est frc-ANEURISM. 107 quently, may bf taken as an example.—A small tumor is first perceived, firm, and but slightly affected by the< pulsation of the artery;—it is attended with little or no pain, and is disregarded by the patient.—It increases in size, becomes softer to the fceu and has now a very strong pulsatory motion ; and upon pressure entirely disappears., but returns again as soon as the .cause of compression is removed.—Lancinating pains arise, and there is an unaccountable sensation of heaviness, pain, and numbness, through all the limb, often accompanied with severe cramps.— As the swelling enlarges, it acquires great hardness, and the thrabuing, before violent and alarming, is now diminished; neither is the blood capable of being removed, by pressure, from its situation.—The leg becomes cedematous, heavy, cold, and pulseless.—At length the Integuments, in some cases, acquire a livid h it, ti e skin becomes thinner from day to day, it cracks and scabs, and blood issues through the crevices; but the first hemorrhage seldom proves fatal : the patient immediately faints, and a coagulum is formed and closes the orifice; ulceration, however, soon extends, and the patient at last expires after a large effusion, though often not until the lapse of many months, or even years, from the first accession of the disease. CAl'SES. Predisposing. — A constitutional predisposition: appearing mostly about, the middle period of life. Exciting.—Debility, however induced;—accidental injury, of whoever kind;—the removal or destruction of neighbouring part'; by which tho artery is deprived of its usual support. DIAGNOSIS. The violent sensation of the tumor, together with its being r sANEURISM. 108 situated orer an artery, vrill in general be sure characteristics of the disease.—It may be distinguished from tumors of another nature, which may happen to obtain a pulsatory motion from their contiguity to a large artery, by compressing the vessel above the swelling; when, if the latter be aneurismal, it will be very considerably diminished, or will totally disappear. TREATMENT. Aneurisms, in internal parts, are beyond the reach of surgical aid ; temperance and quiet, with mild aperients, and occasional venesection, are all the means which we can prescribe to arrest their progress. There are numerous instances of aneurism yield- ing to a natural cure; this is proved by dissection, as well as actual observation, in cases which apparently nave been in their last and worst stage, and in which the diseased parts, and the rcssel leading to them, have entirely recovered. This good for- tune, however, must not be awaited, when the disease is ad- vanced and admits of the operation. In the early stages, and while the blood can be yet pressed entirely out of the sac, compression by means cf a bandage, composed of soft and somewhat elastic materials, and properly adapted to tile part.—If this prove of no effect, the operation will become necessary. THE OPERATIONS TOR ANEURISM. ForAmurhm in general.—The necessary preparations being made, and the patient placed in a commodious position, the finjt step ought to be to obtain a perfect command over the circulation Of the inferior part of the member, by means of the tourniquet. —After this has been adjusted, the operator is, with a common scalpel, to make an incision through the skin and cellular sub-109 ANEURISM. stance, along the whole course of the tumor.—On the latter being thus exposed to view, a small opening is to be made into it 'with a lancet, of sufficient size for the admission of the finger; when the whole cavity is to be fairly laid open, from one extre- mity to the other, by running a blunt-pointed bistoury from be- low upwards, and afterwards from above downwards. The next step is to clear the cavity of its contents, by means of the finger, assisted by a sponge. This being done, the tourniquet is to be . slackened in order to discover the opening into the artery; when this is perceived, after renewing the compression, a probe is to be introduced so as to raise the vessel, or it may be taken hold of by a pair of small forceps, and being thus exposed, it is to be secured by a strong ligature passed around it, by means of a blunt curved needle, about half an inch above the opening into the tumor.—The inferior portion of the aitery is next to be tied in like manner, and the ends of the ligatures being brought over the edges of the wound, the latter is to be covered with soft lint, and a pledget of emollient ointment. A compress of linen is then to be applied over the whole, and secured by a roller lightly passed around the limb ; after which the patient is to be conveyed to bed, the limb supported by a soft pillow, laid in a relaxed posture, and covered with warm flannel.—As in all other operations of a similar nature, it will be prudent to allow the tourniquet to remain upon the limb, without any degree of pres- sure, till the danger of haemorrhage is over. It is recommended by surgeons of the present day, in every case where such a mode of practice can be admissible, to expose the artery in a convenient situation above the tumor, and to se- cure it by ligature, in the manner we shall now direct for aneu- rism of the popliteal artery. The ligature should be ■applied to the vessel at some distance above the tumor, as the disease fie-ANEURISM. 110 quently extends a considerable way from it; if the ligature be not placed on a sound portion, the operation will not succeed. For Popliteal Aneurism.—Sir Everard Home gives the follow- ing directions for the improved mode of operating for popliteal aneurism, in Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Medicine and Surgery. An incision is to be made, about three inches in length, on the anterior and inner part of the thigh, at or below its middle,) in a direction obliquely across the inner edge of the sartorius muscle.—This, after being exposed, is to be drawn to the ouUido of the thigh, when the fascia covering the femoral vessels will immediately be seen, lying under and beneath the sartorius and triceps muscles.—A slight incision is then to be made with ex- treme caution through this fascia ; and the artery, thus laid open to view, is to be separated from its lateral connexions with the knife, or by the help of a thin spatula. A double ligature is now to be passed behind it, by means of an eyed probe properly curved, talcing care not to include the contiguous femorttl vein, which is situated on the inside, and the nerve which is situated to the outside of the artery.—The doubling of the ligature is then to be divided, and the two thus formed are to be separated, and securely tied at about the distance of half an inch from each other. After which the intermediate portion of artery is to be cautiously divided, and the coats of the ligatures brought out of the wound, the sides of which are to be kept in apposition by straps of adhesive plaster, in order to effect an union by the first intention. The tumor is not to be opened ; it never will com- pletely subside, but will diminish so much as to produce very slight inconvenience.—The subsequent treatment will be, in every respect, similar to that above described.—The ligatures moj bo removed with safety in about twelve days.ANEURISM. 11] The operation is now frequently performed with a single liga- ture and without dividing the artery. When the ligature has been passed under the artery, it should be gently raised, and if it is where it ought to be, the pulsation m the sac will cease. The ligature is then to be tied very tight, the better to promote the suppuration and speedy division of the vessel, and in order that it may come away before granulations arise to entangle and prevent it. No attempts should be made to withdraw it before the tenth day, after which it should be cautiously pulled with a daily increase of force, so that it be not left after the fourteenth or fifteenth day, lest it produce irritation and mischief. For Inguinal Aneurism.—The. operation for aneurism of the femoral artery in the groin has been successfully performed by Mr. Abernethy and others. He makes his first incision about three inches in length, through the integuments of the abdomen, a little above Poupart's ligament, and to the side of the abdominal ring (o avoid the epigastric artery. He then divides the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and afterwards cuts through the margin of the internal oblique and trausversalis with a crooked bistoury. This done, the finger must be passed between the peritonamni, on the side of the psoas muscle, where the artery will be found. A strong ligature is then to be brought round it, which is to be se- cured very tightly, as in the operation for the popliteal aneurism. For Cervical Aneurism.—Mr. Ashley Cooper has operated for aneurism of the carotid artery; and lias been, in one instance, fortunate in saving his patient.—Vide « Medico-chirurgical Transactions."—In (Ins operation the incision is made on the side next the trachea, by which the important parts will be avoided. The linger must be passed round the artery, and in passing the ligature round it special care must be taken that the par vagum is not also included. Mr. Cooper adopts the old practice of evacuating the contents of the tumor.FALSE OR DIFFUSED ANEURISM. 112 FALSE OR DIFFUSED ANEURISM. This is a tumor produced by an effusion of blood, from a wounded or ruptured artery, into the cellular membrane.— Scarpa maintained that this was the character of all, of the true as well as the false aneurism. He denied the dilatation of the coats of arteries, and endeavoured to prove, by dissection and ancient authorities, that the artery was invariably ruptured, and that the aneurismal sac was formed by the cellular sheath of the vessel. He asserted that all aneurisms, whether internal or ex- ternal, whether circumscribed or diffused, were produced by effusion.—These are opinions which still have their partisans, but are commonly considered to have been satisfactorily re- futed. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. It appears in the form of a small compressible swelling, having a strong pulsatory motion.—The progress of its increase varies in different cases; sometimes the enlargement proceeds verr rapidly, at others it is months or years in arriving at any consi- derable size.—It is much more diffused than the true aneurism, and cannot, like that, be made to disappear upon pressure.— The integuments, sooner or later, lose (heir natural appear- ance, ulcerate, and allow a rupture of the internal sac; though sometimes not until the tumor has attained an enormous size. I'alse or diffused aneurisms acquire a livid or marbled appear- ance, the veins become varicose, ulceration ensues, and blood is evacuated. CAUSES. An opening made into an artery, by whatever cause ;—rup- ture from external violence; — puncture in venesection;— erosion from ulcers.VARICOSE ANEURISM. TREATMENT. In the incipient state, compression.—In the more advanced periods of the disease, the operation just described.—Vide Aneurism. A case is related in the Medical and Physical Journal, by Dr. Adams, of an aneurism of this nature cured by pressure upon the artery above the injured part. VARICOSE ANEURISM. The varicose or venous aneurism may be considered as a combination of the two former species ; being a tumor consisting in an effusion of blood from an artery into an adjacent vein ; arising from a wound of the former, inflicted through the latter vessel.—After having attained a certain size, it frequently re- mains stationary, without alteration or increase, for years; sometimes for the remainder oi life. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. It is marked by a sort of tremulous motion in the vein, and by a peculiar hissing sound, occasioned by the passage of blood through a small opening,-—by the tumor being unaffected by compression of the vein below;—by its diminution or disappear- ance upon compressing the artery ; —by a more feeble-pulsation in the under part of that, than in the under part of the number of the opposite side. TREATMENT. Compression, as recommended for the incipient state of true aneurism.—Should an operation become unavoidable, it is t» he performed in the manner already described.11* HERNIA. VARIX. Varicose Vein* Varix is a preternatural dilatation of a vein, induced by any cause which prevents the free circulation of blood through it;— J as long-continued pressure, or depending position. It is at first ' a soft tumor, circumscribed below, apparently by a valve, and extending upwards: as the distention increases, the circulation * becomes impeded, and the contiguous branches enlarge. In this way the veins of a whole limb shall become varicose. In the more advanced stage of the disease, coagula form within the varix, which becomes hard, and no longer recedes on pressure. "\\ hile the distention is trifling, little inconvenience is felt by the ) patient; but, as it advances, a very troublesome itching is in- t tluced, followed sometimes by great pain and inflammation, and [ obstinate ulcerations. Hannoi rhages will also sometimes occur, from the bursting of the tumor. TREATMENT. The indications are to remove every impediment to the passage of blood through the vessel, and to diminish its size. For this purpose the topical application of cold, of astringent lotions, aided by bandages, should be tried. In obstinate cases an ope- ration is necessary, which consists in laying bare the vein, and tying it firmly with a ligature, in the same way as the arteries above described. HERNIA. Hernia is the protrusion of any viscus from its proper cavity. —It has obtained various denominations from its situation, as, the inguinal, the scrotal, the femoral, the umbilical or exom-115 INGUINAL HERNIA. phalos, the ventral, the obturator, the ischiatic, the labial, the eystic, the diaphragmatic, the perineal hernia.—From its con- tents, as, the enterocele, containing intestine only;—the epi- plocele, containing omentum only;—and the entero-epiplocele, containing both omentum and intestine.—From its different states, as, the reducible, the irreducible, and the strangulated hernia. INGUINAL HERNIA. The following account of Hernise is wholly tafcen from Mr. Astley Cooper's practical and valuable treatise on this subject; and the four accompanying plates are accurately reduced from his elegant and large engravings. i. In the reducible state. ' SYMPTOMS. This species of hernia is most common in men, as the femoral is in women, owing to the peculiar structure of the parts in the two sexes. Its first appearance is that of a small tumor, situated about, an inch and a half, on the outer side of the abdominal ring, in a line extending from the pubes to the anterior su- perior spinous process of the ilium. (The hernial sac first emerges from the abdomen at an opening formed in a fascia given off upwards from Poupart's ligament.—See p. Plate III. This aperture is bounded on its upper part by the tendon of the trans- versalis muscle; and is situated between the spinous process of the ilium and pubes ; about an inch and a half to the outer and upper side of the abdominal ring.—See Plate IL—Thus the mouth of the sac, in common cases of hernia, is always on the outside of the epigastric artery.)—It gradually protrudes ob- liquely downwards, and descending through the abdominal ring, I 10116 INGUINAL HERNIA. proceeds into the scrotum, and forms a distinct swelling which often increases to a large size.-See c. Plate III. It may he either entcrocelc, distinguished by the regularity of its appear- ance, its elasticity and uniformity to the touch, and upon being returned into the abdomen by its receding with a guggling noise, -ep.plocele, marked by its want of elasticity, by the inequality of its appearance, by its being edematous or slippery to the feel, and by its not receding with a guggling noise ;-or entero-epi- plocele, when the tumor, is more equal than in the preceding state; yet it possesses the ccdematous feel, and, upon being re- turned, the intestine first goes up with the sound above men- tioned : the more solid omentum slowly follows. EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. a. Symphysis pubis. b. b. Anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. c. c. External oblique muscles. d. Linea alba. e. e. Linear semilunares. f. f. The abdominal rings, formed by the separation of two co- lumns of tendinous fibres ; the upper inserted into each pubes ; the lower inserted into the pubes at h, after pass- ing behind the spermatic cord. g. Pouparfs ligament on the crural arch; extended from the antenor spinous process of the ilium, and inserted upon the crest of the pubes. i. The fascia lata of the thigh, C0Iltinued fronl p^., %R. ment, and seen turning i„ under the femoral vessels, near the middle of the fore part of the thigh, k. The vena saplnena major. I. A part of the fascia arising from Pouparfs ligament, which assets in forming the fascill 1:ltft>IPX. ATE II.INGUINAL HERNIA. 117 mi. The tendon of the external oblique muscle cut upon, to show the parts situated behind it. n. The internal oblique muscle : its lower edge, which arises from Poupart's ligament, is raised, to show the parts be- hind it. o. The transvcrsalis muscle. Its lower edge arises from Pou- part"s ligament, but is here turned up. In its natural itate it runs over the cord to be inserted into the pubes behind the abdominal ring, which it serves as a valve to close behind. p. A fascia connected with Poupart's ligament, which nins up- ward to the transversalis, and unites with the posterior part of the transverse muscle and its tendons, and thus prevents the bowels from slipping between the lower edge of the muscles and Poupart's ligament, or between the fibres of the muscle itself. q. The place at which the spermatic cord goes into the abdomen. The fascia situated on its outer and lower part is of con- siderable density, but becomes thin upon its inner side, so as to show the epigastric artery and vein behind it. r. The epigastric artery and vein, situated behind the fascia, at first mi the inner side, and afterwards behind the sper- matic cord. t. The Spermatic pord, near two inches of which is above and to the outer side of the abdominal ring, and still not in Hie abdomen ; it is also seen below the ling running to the testicle.118 INGUIHAL HERNIA. EXPLANATION OF TLATE III. a. The common integuments cut through and turned back. b. The fascia, which is extended from the external oblique muscle over the spermatic cord in the healthy state, and over the hernial sac, when it descends into the scrotum. c. The hernial sac cut open. d. The abdominal ring, concealed in some degree by the fascia which passes over it. e. The anterior superior spinous process.of the ilium. f. The tendon of the external oblique muscle. g. The abdominal ring on the right side, -h. Poupart's ligament. i. Internal oblique muscle passing above the hernial sac. k. The rectus muscle. 1. The. femoral artery, m. The femoral vein. n. The epigastric artery passing behind the hernial sac. o. The spermatic cord. p. The" sac of an incipient inguinal hernia, situated, as usual, below the edges of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and above the middle of Poupart's ligament. CAUSES. tPredUposuig.—Debility, however induced j diminishing the resistance of muscles and their tendons;—roalconformation of part?. Exciting.—Accidental blows;—great muscular exertion ;— pressure from obesity, or the .wearing of tight clothes; preg- nancy ;—any forcible agitation of the body: as the riding of ro'.igh horses, or in rough carnages, jumping, Sc. &c.Exhibit* ihf incipient .and the advanced stale of uerni.mpon the same snbjnrt .The left skews the first protrusion of the tumor in de^t .1 considerable distance from ih<- abdominal rino-: ihrrio-ht exhibits an old .irr..t.il hernia of many Teai -s stan din cINGUINAL HERNIA. 119 DIAGNOSIS. The distinctive marks which characterize a hernial tumor are *—distention upon coughing;—the capability, when in an hori- eontal posture, of being returned into the abdomen;—its again appearing upon resuming an erect position;—and, in scrotal hernia, its first appearing in the groin, and thence descending into the scrotum. From hydrocele.—By the latter beginning to form at tiie lower part of the scrotum, and thence gradually ascending to the ab- dominal ring:—by its.fluctuation and transparency in the one; by th j absence ot these symptoms in the other disease.—In hernia the testicle may generally be distinctly felt below the tumor; in hydrocele it is involved in the substance of the swelling, and can with difficulty be felt.—Hydrocele, until it has increased to a great size, is not dilated upon coughing. From enlarged testicle. —Vide Diseases of the Testicle. Front hematocele.—Vide Hcematocele. From varicocele.—All the marks of reducible hernia are pre- sent in varicocele.—The two diseases may thus be distinguished : "When in a recumbent position, after having returned the tumor into the abdomen, firm pressure is to be made upon the abdo- minal ring, and carefully preserved while the patient rises to an erect position, when,-if the tumor be hernia, it cannot reappear until the compressing cause is removed.—»On the- contrary, if it he varicocele, it soon returns with increased size.—The tumor in the latter disease has also an irregular ropy feel, which is not ob- .-served in hernia. TREATMENT. Sites a reduction of the tumor (which in this state t an readily be effected by the patient himself], the universal mode of pre- venting its return, is the application of a (ruts.—This is, usually, formed of steel properly covered with soft leather, and so tcm-INCUINAL HERNIA. 140 pered as with facility to adapt itself to the lower part of the body, which it embraces like a belt.—At its extremity is a pad of a conical form, which, when applied to the mouth of the hernial sac, occasions, by constant pressure, an adhesion to take place between its sides, in consequence of which the patient is cured.— In common hernia, the proper spot for Lhc application of the pad is midway between the symphysis pubis and the spine of the * ilium.—In very large hernhe, it should be brought nearer to the abdominal ring, but never completely upon the pubes.—It should be worn for two years, and during that time left off on no occasion. J I. In Oit: irreducible state. This is a state of hernia in which the tumor is^incapable of being returned into the abdomen by outward pressure. It often in these cases increases to an enormous size. CAUSES OF THE IRREDUCIBLE STATE. 1. The protruded tumor being long suffered to remain down, after having attained a considerable bulk; in which case the ab- domen accommodates itself to its contents, and is no longer able to receivethc protruded, and now extraneous parts. 2. Membranous bands, the consequence of inflammation, forming across the tumor, and thus entangling its contents. 3. An adhesion of the protruded parts to the sides of the sac. 4. Contract ions of the sac at its middle. 5. A scirrhous state of the omentum. TREATMENT. Support is to be afforded to the tumor, by means of an ap- paratus called a bag-truss—This consists in a simple bag, made of calico, connected by attached tapes to a girdle of the same materials, made to encircle the hips. A steady pressure is thusINGUINAL HERNIA. 121 made upon the part, which not only prevents a further protru- sion, but has in some instances produced an absorption of the adipose substance, and ultimately a reduction of the tumor.—In some cases supposed to be irreducible, the application of ice— vide Treatment of Strangulated Hernia—by contracting the scrotum, has caused a return of the protruded parts. When the bulk of these parts has been increased by fat, which is often the case in the omentum, and sometimes in the intestines, the confining the patient to his bed, and keeping him on a spare diet for a fortnight or three weeks, will very probably succeed. If it be an irreducible epiplocelc, a steel truss may be applied; for al- though the intestines will suffer by the slightest pressure, the omentum will not. The spring of the truss not being very tight, * a moderate degree of pressure should be made on the omentum, by which adhesion will be produced between it and the sides of the sac, and thus a further protrusion will be prevented. Should sickness or colic come on, the truss should be immediately re- moved, as some fold of intestine is then contained in the sac, which may possibly be only occasionally down : the truss should, therefore, be again tried, and applied before the patient rises from bis bed. HI. In the strangulated state. In the strangulated state of hernia there is such a compression ol' the blood-vessels, as to excite inflammation, and interrupt the passage of the feces through the descended portion. SYMITOMS. Sense of stricture at the upper part of the abdomen, or at tin- navel ;—frequent eructations j— vomiting of a bilious, and some- times of a feculent matter; obstinate constipation ;—quick, hard pulse.—The tumor is red, painful, and cedematous ;—theINGUINAL HERNIA. 122 abdomen becomes sore, and painful to the touch;—a profuse perspiration breaks out over the body;— the pulse becomes small and thready;—troublesome hiccup;—remarkable expression of anxiety iu the countenance.—These symptoms often suffer a re- mission, but return again with increased violence. If reduction be not speedily effected, a mortification of the intestine takes place, when the patient, after suffering intolerable pain, becomes suddenly easy ;— the tumor assumes a purple, or leaden colour, and, from being tense and elastic, becomes soft and doughy, and 1ms an emphysematous feel;—the abdomen be- comes more tense, the hiccup more severe;—the body is covered •with a cold clammy sweat, —the eyes have a glassy appearance,— the pulse is irregular, though softer and fuller;--the patient is tranquil and sensible to the last, and often expires with the de- lusive hope of recovery. CAUSES OF STRANGULATION-. The exciting cause—may beany of the causes which originally produced the tumor. Vide Causes of Irreducible Hernia. The proximate—s. stricture caused by the unyielding nature of the parts, operating like a tight cord upon the protruded in- testinc. Vide the Operation for Strangulated Hernia. TREATMENT. The first object will be to endeavour to return the displaced parts, by the manual operation called taxis. For this purpose the patient (previously directed to void his urine) is to be laid Upon his back; the pelvis elevated by a pillow above the level of the abdomen, the thighs raised to a right angle with the bodv, and brought so closely together, as only to admit the surgeon's band between them. By this means all the muscles ami aper- tures of the abdomen will be relaxed—The surgeon; situatedINGUINAL HERNIA, 123 to the right side of the patient, should now embrace the lower part of the tumor with his right hand, and the upper part, where it enters the abdomen, with the finger and thumb of his left.—■ The compression of the former should be firm and constant; that of the latter moveable, inclining it alternately to each side, and endeavouring to insinuate a small portion at a time of th« displaced parts into the abdomen. Should the above operation, after a quarter of an hour's per- severance, prove unsuccessful, it must be assisted by other means: I. By copious bleeding from the arm. 0. By the warm bath, continued until faintness is induced, vhen the taxis should be immediately repeated. 3. By a clyster of tobacco, or the smoke of tobacco. ENEMA TABACI. R. Folii tabaci 9ij. Aqua; ferventis Jxij. Macera, et liquorem frigefactum cola. Of this only half is at first to be administered, the remainder ■at the expiration of half an hour if necessary. The fume of tobacco is conveyed into the rectum by an instru- mi nt made for that purpose. Both the infusion and smoke of tobacco produce a faintness ; and when this takes place, the in- strument should be withdrawn, and the surgeon endeavour to re- turn the protruded portion of the gut. 4. By the application of cold—pounded ice contained in a bladder, or a solution of muriate of ammonia with vinegar, or of common salt and muriate of ammonia. Opium may be given to allay the violence of the vomiting. Purging is, in general, prejudicial; it is only admissible where the symptoms are slight, and where no vomiting is present.— C n-124 INGUINAL HERNIA. Fomentations arc inferior to cold applications; yet where tbe tumor is extremely tense, and the scrotum much inflamed, to- gether with leeches, they have been successfully employed. If these means fail, the only resource is in an operation for the liberation of the confined parts ; the success of which espe- cially depends upon its being performed early. When the in- flammatory symptoms are violent, and the above remedies have failed, it should be performed although the strangulation has only existed a few hours. There is more hazard in the delay than in the operation. THE OI-ERATION'. The patient being commodiously laid, the hair removed from the parts, and other necessary preparations made, the tumor is to be-firmly grasped with the left hand, while an incision is made (if it be not extremely large) through the integuments, along its whole extent. By this the skin and cellular substance will be divided, and a thin fascia exposed, which is given ofi' by the ex- ternal oblique muscle.—Through the middle of this a small opening is then to be made, for the introduction of a director, by the assistance of which it is to be dilated upward to within one inch of the abdominal ring, and in a similar manner down- wards to the bottom of the tumor.—The second covering of the sac, or the cremaster muscle, next comes in sight, and this being divided precisely as the preceding fascia, the sac itself is exposed to view.—The anterior and inferior portion of the sac is now to be pinched up between the fingers, and being thereby separated from its contents, a small bole is to be made into It. in on hori- zontal direction; after which it is to be carefully dilated in the same manner as the preceding tunics. The next step is to remove the stricture.—Where there is rea- son to believe that the intestine is butlittlc inflamed, where the symptoms are chiefly those of obstruction only, and the stricture125 INGUINAL HERNIA. is at the abdominal ling, it is not necessary to lay open the sac : in these cases, which must be determined by the judgment of the surgeon, the incision should be made down upon the ring, the tendon should be punctured a little above it, and a probe passed downwards through it; the tendon should then be divided by cutting out the probe.—If the tumor happen to be so turned over the ring as to make it difficult to get at it, a probe must be passed down between it and the tumor, and the finger being passed after it, the ring must be divided by a scalpel. Nothing more than this is necessary where the stricture is formed by the ring; but where the symptoms are such as to render it necessary to examine the state of the hernial contents, or where the con- striction is in the sac itself, &c. other measures are necessary, and the sac must be opened, as above directed.—In order to ascertain the seat of the stricture, the finger is to be insinuated between the intestine and the sac, and carried up to the mouth of the tumor.—It will be found in one of these situations; either at the opening into the abdomen, an inch and a half to the outer and upper side of the abdominal ring,—at the external or abdo- minal ring,—or in the sac itself, rendered preternaturally thick by the previous pressure of a truss, or constricting the contained parts by means of a septum which has been formed across it in consequence of inflammation.—In order to dilate the strictured part, the finger must now be mailt' the guide to a blunt-pointed bistoury, which is to be carefully passed up on the outside of the sac, if the stricture be in either of the two first-mentioned situa- tions, but on the inside if in the last; and having readied the desired part, an incision is to be made through the tendon, or other resisting substance, in a line directly upwards, of sufficient extent to admit of the return of the protruded parts.-See Plate* [V. and V. G SINGUINAL HERNIA. 126 Having thus removed the stricture, the state of the lacerated parts is to he carefully examined.—When the intestine remains sound, it is sound to the touch; the brown colour, invariably acquired under strangulation, soon lessens, or entirely disap- pears ; and the blood, when pressed from a vein, speedily re- turns. If thus free from injury, it should be immediately returned into the abdomen, carefully dissecting any adhesions that may have formed between it and the sac. If, on the con- trary, the injury it has sustained by strangulation has been so great as to have induced mortification, it will be found of a deep brown or chocolate colour, covered with a layer of brown coagu- lable lymph, fetid, and interspersed with purple or leaden- coloured spots, which readily break down under the impression of the finger. In such cases the following treatment is recom- mended : If a small portion only of the cylinder be diseased, a ligature is to be passed through the attached mesentery, at right angles with the intestine, and then through the mouth of the hernial sac ; when by this means the intestine becomes confined to the aperture, adhesions form, and an artificial anus is pro- duced. The opening has, however, in some instances, after a time, closed ; and the faces have resumed their natural course } but when the whole cylinder is mortified, the diseased part should be cut away; the divided ends brought together, and united by means of four ligatures, inserted around the intestine. Vide Wounds of the Intestines.—If the intestine has mortified, it will occasionally happen that the wind above the stricture will, .on the intestine being liberated, rush forth and force along with it a foot or more of gut, which it will be impossible at the mo- ment to return. For this purpose no exertion should be imme- diately made, fomentations should be applied to the parts, which, being supported in the hand, will very soon return.FX, ATE W, Ike iiiteruaJ appearance of the preparation upon die second plate II exhibits the abdominal orifice* of Ac hmjiir'.the change nt'place which the mouth of die sac nnderg'oes, as ii enlarq-csjaii'l the roixrw of the ves «cl connected witli the disrate,127 INGUINAL HERNIA. EXPLANATION OF PLATE IV. a. Situation of the symphysis pubis. b. b. Spinous process of the ilium. c. Abdominal parietes drawn downwards. d. The thighs. e. e. The psoas muscle upon each side. f. The spine. g. The kidneys, it. Aorta. i. i. Iliac arteries. k. k. Epigastric arterial, arising from the iliac arteries, and passing between the mouths of the hernial sacs and th» symphysis pubis, but still near to the inner side of the mouth of each sac. 1.1. Spermatic arteries arising from the aorta, and passing out ot the abdomen behind the hernial sacs. _m. Inferior cava. n. Iliac vein. o. o. Epigastric veins accompanying the epigastric arteries, q. q. Spermatic veins. r. r. Emulgent veins. s. s. Ureters. t. Urinary bladder. v. v. Vasa deferentia passing to the posterior part of the bladder. w. Incipient inguinal hernia; its mouth seen midway between the spine of the ilium and symphysis pubis. x. Mouth of the large inguinal hernia extended towards the sym- physis pubis, occasioning an unnatural curve In the epi- gastric artery. y- y. The pcritona'um.INGUINAL HERXIA. 128 EXPLANATION OF PLATU V. a. Symphysis pubis. b. Anterior superior spinous process of the iliuun. c. c. The spine. (1. d. The acetabuia. e. e. The tuberosities of the ischia. f. f. The abdominal rings. g. g. Poupart's ligaments. h. The liuea alba. i. The aorta. 1(. t. The iliac and femoral arteries. 1. Origin of the epigastric artery on the right side. m.m. Course of the epigastric artery on each side, marked by dotted lines ; the left passing on the inner, the right on the outer, side of the hernial sac. n. The vena cava inferior, o. o. The spermatic arteries, p. p. The spermatic veins, q. The spermatic cords, r. The testes. s. The hernial sac upon the left side, which is a common inguinal hernia, situated on the outer side of the epigastric artery, t. The hernial sac upon the right side, which is the less frequent , sPecies, placed upon the inner side of the epigastric artery. V. The spermatic cord, passing on the outer side of the hernial sac, on that side on which the variety exists j whilst it is seen on the posterior part of that on the opposite side.PLATE V, ExBDdb n rornmon inguinal hernia cm the let! ride .with the sac paffimg lioi.-n bctivrcn die epigastric artery, and the jptue of the ilimn thai on llic do-In side lioiiiv.- a mrietT m which llie liei-llia protrudes between flie epigastric oiterjr siaflthc symphisis pabU.129 FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. HERNIA CONGENITA. Hernia congenita is a protrusion of some of the contents of the abdomen into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the testis ; owing to the want of the customary adhesion between its sides, after the descent of the testicle in early life.—It is more frequent- ly seen in children, soon after birth.— It is distinguished from bubonocele by the testicle not being distinctly felt at the bottom of this tumor;—and from hydrocele of the spermatic cord, for which it is often mistaken, by pressure made upon the abdo- minal ring, after the swelling has receded in the recumbent posture, preventing its return, upon rising to the erect position. Vide Diagnosis of Bubonocele. In hernia congenita, previous to the application of a truss, it will be expedient carefully to ascertain, by examination, if the testes have already descended into the scrotum.—Should this not be the case, a truss ought never to be applied, as it would en- tirely prevent the descent of the testicle, which yet remains in the abdomen. FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. The seat of femoral hernia is the upper and fore part of tho thigh, the protruded bowels passing out at the same opening though which the large blood-vessels arc transmitted to the thigh; and consequently under the crural arch, or Fallopius's ligament. It is most commonly met with in women. The tumor, though sometimes situated immediately over the femoral vessels, is very generally on their inner side; for in the internal and lateral parts of the sheath in which they are en- closed, and close to the branch of the os pubis, " precisely where G 5ISO FEMORAL OR CRURAX HERNIA. the insertion of the diiplicature of the arch ends (vide New Method of operating for Femoral Hernia, translated from the Spanish of Don Antonio de Gimhernat), and on the inside of the great secondary iliac vein, there is left a foramen sufficiently distinct and almost round, at which many lymphatics enter.—A lymphatic gland is sometimes fitted into this foramen, and the parts which form the crural hernia always pass through it; con- sequently we may properly call it the crural ring."—" A single gland, placed in this ring, would prevent the issue of the parts contained in the abdomen; but if a portion of the intestine should slide behind, so as to get out of the cavity, it would be very difficult to distinguish the hernia at first." DIAGNOSIS. It is distinguished from bubonocele by the tumor being seated deeper and more laterally; and the ring of the abdominal muscles, which lies entirely above the tumor, in femoral her- nia, completely surrounding the parts in the inguinal kind;— from bubo, in the reducible state, by the capability of reduc- tion ; in the strangulated state, by the symptoms of strangula- tion ;—from psoas abscess, by the fluctuation of the tumor in the latter disease; and by the preceding long-continued and deep-seated pain in the loins. TREATMENT. The treatment laid down for inguinal hernia will, for the most part, be applicable to the species now under consideration. In the manual attempts at reduction, the tumor should be pressed in a direction upwards, and inwards towards the abdo- men ; and at the same time, downwards towards the pubes. In strangulated femoral hernia, it will always be necessary to lay bare the contents of the hernial sac. The strangulation may be 4FEMORAL OR CRURAL HERNIA. 132 g 6 caused by stricture of Pouparfs ligament itself, or the fascia running under it, or by the neck of the sac. The operation for dividing the part which occasions strangu- lation, is directed by Giinbernat to be performed as follows : After the preparatory steps have been taken, and the hernial sac divided, acanulated or grooved sound is to be introduced along the internal side of the intestine, until it enter the crural ring, when it is to be held with the left hand, firmly resting on the branch of the pubes, so that its back shall be turned towards the intestine, and its canal towards the symphysis pubis. A bistoury, with a narrow blade and blunt end, is then to be passed along the groove, until it enter the ring; after which both instruments are to be cautiously carried in- wards, along the branch, to the body of the pubes, drawing them out at the same time.—The internal edge of the cru- ral arch being thus divided, the parts will be reduced with the greatest ease.; and the danger of wounding the Fallopian liga- ment, and the spermatic and gastric vessels, will by this mode of operating be avoided. Under certain circumstances, however, the above means may be inadequate to the liberation of the displaced parts; in which case the following seems the preferable mode of proceeding. " Make a small incision between the fibres of the external oblique muscle, about half an inch above the ligament; and a director being passed carefully, and immediately under the liga- ment, and over the artery (which adheres to the ligament), cut into the groove of the director."—If, when this is done, the stricture be found at the mouth of the sac, it 7nust be divided inwards, to the pubes, inclining Pott's knife a little obliquely downwards. Vide Barrett in Medical and Physical Journal. The finger is the best director in the operation; it should be132 EXOMPHALOS. passed over the stricture, as there is much less danger in cutting clown on it, than on a director; it does away also much of the danger of wounding an artery, which will discover itself by its pulsation. Sometimes there is a second stricture;—care should be taken to ascertain this, when the first is divided, and the hand should be carried up with the gut as far as the stric- ture. EXOMPHALOS. In the exomphalos, or umbilical hernia, some of the viscera of the abdomen, more frequently the omentum, pass out at the umbilicus; and, as in the other species of hernia, are included in a sac formed by the peritonaeum.—It occurs most frequently in infancy, soon after birth:—in the adult state corpulent people are more frequently its subjects ; and pregnant women are particularly liable to it, on account of the enlarged size of the uterus. It has been said that there is no sac in exomphalos, but in general there is one; and the opinion to the contrary has arisen from its adhering so very closely to the skin and integu- ments. TREATMENT. The early and proper application of a bandage, or strong slips of adhesive plaster, will often be sufficient to effect a cure;—should they not, recourse must be had to the elastic truss, invented for this purpose.—If the operation become re- quisite, an incision should be made in the most depending part of thetjumor; and the sac being exposed, the finger should be introduced under its contents, and made a guide to Pott's bis- toury, with which the tendon forming the stricture is to be dilated: thus will be obviated the danger of exciting inrlamma- 3EXOMPHALOS. 13S lion, by too free an exposure of the cavity. The stricture being removed, it is advised by some eminent surgeons, that no more should be done: the hernial contents freed from strangulation are not to be returned, as this disease is almost always connected with some other. Other surgeons, equally experienced, recom- mend that the intestine be returned into the abdomen, if possible, as soon as the sac is laid open, without any further dilatation of the parts, which is not to be executed till such an attempt has failed. The other species of Hernia, viz. the ventral, the obturator, the ischiatic, the labial, the cystic, and the diaphragmatic, are extremely rare in their occurrence.—Their treatment may be de- duced from what has been already said of Inguinal and Femoral Hernia. In books treating of hernia it is usual to mention the radi- cal cure. Several different methods have been recommended for this : they consist of obliterating the hernial sac, or that part of the orifice through which the hernia proceeds. Caustic and ligature have been tried ; and the French surgeons once propo- sed to cure hernia radically by the operation, in cases in which it was not strangulated. So far, however, as the science at present goes, no mode of radically curing this disease has been discovered, which could be adopted with propriety. The only chance of it is from the constant use of a truss.INJURIES TO THE BRAIN FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE. All injuries to the brain from external violence have been divided into two distinct states: — I. The state of concussion;— 2. The state of compression. Abernclhy's Essays, Part III. «ENERAL EFFECTS OR SYMPTOMS OF IKJURY TO THE BRAIV. Drowsiness;—giddiness;—dimness of sight;—partial or com- plete loss of sense;—dilatation of the pupil;—irregular oppress- ed pulse;—snoring or apoplectic stcrtox in breathing;—nausea and vomiting. If the injury have been severe, a discharge of blood from the eyes, nose, and ears;—involuntary discharges of faces and urine;—consequent paralysis. CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. SYMPTOMS. The effect of concussion of the brain, when slight, is what has commonly been called stunning; which consists in—giddi- ness;—noise in the ears;—loss of memory;—stupefaction. These are of a temporary nature only, and soon leave the sub- ject of the accident in the entire possession of his intellects. When more severe, there is an instant and total loss of sense and voluntary motion,—sickness,—the breathing is natural yet slower than usual, unaccompanied with apoplectic stertor, and the patient appears as in a sound sleep,—The pulse is sometimesCONCUSSION OP THE BRAIN. 135 slow, and irregular or intermitting; at others weak, soft, and equal;—the pupil of the eye is immovable;—the extremities are cold; but the muscles of the limbs retain their natural; state of tone, and are not relaxed as in the state of compression. —These symptoms continue for a longer or shorter space of time; in some instances for a few hours only, in others for weeks and even months; and either terminate in inflammation of the brain; or the respiration gradually becomes more free, a genial warmth is diffused over the body, the patient becomes sensible to impressions, and slowly recovers.—Hemiplegia, strabismus, and fatuity, are however not unfiequcnt conse- quences. TREATMENT. In accidents of this nature, the use of diffusive stimuli, and of powerful cordials, has been usually recommended; as wine, —ammonia,—ardent spirits,—blisters, and sinapisms to the feet, &c. Mr. Abernethy and the generality of surgeons disapprove of this mode of treatment, and advise bleeding from the arm, or from the jugular vein or temporal artery;—drastic purga- tives ;—antimonials;— the saline medicine with antimonial wine. Mr. Bromfield recommends the union of antimony with opium. R. Tincture opii jij. Liquoris antimonii tartarisati jvj. Misce: cujus capiat guttas x. sexta quaque hora. Blisters to the scalp have been also successful in determining the fluids to the external part. An incision made in the injured part, and an emollient poul-136 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. tice applied over it, is a mode of treatment employed with suc- cess on the continent. After symptoms of concussion no pa- tient can be considered free from all danger of inflammation and suppuration of the brain or its membranes, till fourteen days at least have elapsed, although he may appear in perfect health, and pursue his usual occupations : during this period all stimuli should be carefully avoided, and that mode of living adopted which may be most likely to diminish arterial action. If, during this period, pain in the head, nausea, loss of appetite and rest- lessness come on, all is not right within the cranium; the most powerful antiphlogistic means must then be adopted, and, if they fail, the operation of trepanning must be performed, espe- cially where the patient complains of fixed pain in a particular spot, where the scalp has been much injured, is detached from the bone, and looks unhealthy, and where the symptomatic fever is considerable; the state of the pulse in these cases, must never be considered diagnostic of the existing derangement, the head and stomach will point out the mischief. An operation will, in common cases, only serve to aggravate the affection; but where concussion is combined with fracture, after the above plan has been fairly practised without affording success, recourse may be had to the use of the trephine, as a possible mode of relief. COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. CHARACTERISTIC SYMPTOMS. Loss of sense and voluntary motion, coming on gradually, not instantly, as in the preceding state of injury;—the stoto-COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 157 vous breathing, which marks the presence of apoplexy,-th. pulse extremely slow, oppressed, and irregular, but les, inter- nutting than in concussionthe muscles of the limbs relaxed- —the pupils of the eyes much dilated. CAUSES. Depression of bone with fracture;-fracture with extravasa- tion of bloodj-extravasation of blood without fracturej-an effusion of matter succeeding inflammation. TREATMENT. The first object is to ascertain the situation, nature, and ex- tent of the injury—When this cannot be done by a superficial e-xam.nation, the whole head should be shaved; after which upon inspection, the part which has sustained the injury wil! often be detected by an inflammatory spot or small tumor,-or by he uneasiness expressed by the patient upon pressure,-or by h,s frequent.y lifting llis hand, and applying it to a pai,itu. lar part of the head. When at length this has been discovered, an incision must be made through the integuments down to the bone, and in dota- this much caution is requisite, as surgeons, by cutting down bold,y upon the bone, have plunged the knife into the brain of the. patient, before they were aware of it. When no fracture ^covered by the incision, the bone may be ,aid bare or hTf I n ', Wh;Ie CXtent m,'St bC -P-'-The further treat- ment w,„ depend upon the state in which the parts are found. sho , t !, fTCU,rC °r dCprCSSi°n °f bone> «» operation h • ins ant.y be performcd.-If there he no fracture nor de- Kession, after , careful examination has ascertained no other sea.138 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. of injury to exist, it may be concluded that the symptoms arise from an extravasation of blood; the almost certain criterion of which is, in Mr. Abernethy's opinion, no blood issuing from the bone upon the removal of the pericranium;—or the bone having lost its natural appearance, and become of a whitish or dusky yellow hue.—In such casethe antiphlogistic treatment recom- mended for concussion may first be practised; and if, after a fair trial, the symptoms still continue, recourse should be had to the operation without further delay. THE OPERATION. The first step to be taken (the incision being previously made), is to remove as much of the pericranium as will be sufficient to admit the application of the trephine, at the same time endea- vouring to preserve enough to cover the perforation. This it performed by means of an instrument called the engine. The trephine, with its annexed perforator, is then to be applied, including within its circle a larger portion of the depressed than of the sound bone, and, after having made a few turns to se- cure it in its situation, the central pin or perforator* should be removed, as no longer useful, and the operator is to proceed, with great caution, to saw through the bone; using a semirotary motion with the instrument backwards and forwards, occasion- tdly brushing the accumulated particles of bone from its teeth, and often, with a probe, examining the sulcus which has been made, to ascertain if any part be already perforated. This is a part of the operation which requires great nicety;—for as the * The instrument is here, described in it$ improved state, as now actually constructed.COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 139 bones of the cranium are formed by an inferior and superior table, divided by diploe, the fracture of the inferior may not correspond with that of the superior table; and if this is not held in mind, the trepan may be doing irremediable mischief as. • soon as it has penetrated the superior table; for although the dura mater may with impunity be wounded by a sharp instrument, or has recovered, when torn by a musket-ball, which has also entered the brain, it does not seem to have the same power, when it alone is lacerated by a blunt instrument, for such injury is invariably mortal.—When any part is sawn through, great and redoubled caution must be used, and the instrument should be made to bear upon the unperforated parts, until the bone he- comes sufficiently loose to be removed with the forceps or ele- vator. The parts beneath the cranium being now exposed to view, if the replacement of a depressed piece of bone be the object of the operation, it is to be effected by means of an instrument called the elevator. This acts as a lever, the fulcrum to which should be either the sound portion of bone, or the finger laid over it.—Should an accumulation of blood have given rise to the symptoms, the fluid will now, if situated between the dura mater "and the bone, have a free exit; if it be collected beneath the dura mater, that membrane will be found tense, dark- •oloured, or oven livid. In this case an opening becomes ne- cessary. This should be performed by making gentle scratches or incisions with a scalpel, until a director can be introduced} upon which the membrane should be sufficiently divided to, afford an outlet to the fluid. If, after the operation, any points of bone remain attached to the sides of the orifice, these should be carefully separated by the forceps or the elevator.140 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. For the treatment of the wound, the following rules are ne-. cessary: If the operation has been performed for fracture or depression, unless pieces of bone are expected still to come away, union should be effected by the first intention;—if for the evacuation of blood or matter (sec Inflammation of the Brain), the sore is to be dressed in the lightest and easiest manner, and a speedy suppuration invited by emollient cata- plasms. Certain objectionable parts of tlie head are usually pointed out, lind considered as improper to become the subjects of the above operation.—These are—the course of longitudinal sinuses,— the crucial ridge of the occipital bone,—the anterior and inferior angle of each parietal bone,—and the part immediately covering the frontal sinuses; but in cases of extreme danger these rules should be disregarded.—Perhaps there is no part really objection- able but the last mentioned. There has been much differencs in opinion as to the instruments best adapted to this operation, and a variety have been used. Sir Everard Home recommends the saw whose circle is divided by grooves into three portions, as it per- forms its operation with greater expedition and neatness, and the divisions allow the freer escape of the sawdust:—this is the saw most commonly used. A saw has been invented by Mr. Hey (see his Observations in Surgery), with which protruding points may be removed, so as to admit the elevator, with the loss of a very small portion of uninjured bone.—This, wherever it may be admissible, should be substituted for the trephine. Besides concussion and frac- ture, there are other causes, producing such derangement within the cranium as to require this operation ; such are ossification of the membranes of the brain, partial thickening of the bones ofFUNGUS AND HERNIA CEREBRI. Ul the skull from venereal or other causes, &c. which are all point- ed out by the gradual accession and increase of the symptoms of compression. Consequences of Injuries to the Brain. FUNGUS AND HERNIA CEREBRI. The fungus is simply an exuberant protrusion of granulations beyond the level of the cranium, arising usually from the sur- face of the dura mater, or from the cut edges of the bone granulating luxuriantly. Hernia cerebri is a tumor formed by the pressure of blood, winch has been extravasated into the substance of the brain, Owrng to a diseased state of its vessels induced by one of the foregoing causes—The effused fluid, if the skull were en. ire, would ,n all probability induce apoplexy; but when a defici- ency of bone exists, so as to allow it to expand, it presses the surface of the brain and its meninges, through the vacant space and there forms a tumor, which continues to increase in <J «ntd the superficial stratum of brain becomes so distended as to g>ve way; who blood oozes out, and forms a coagulum. TREATMENT. ^ Of the /«»7,,r.-Modcrate pressure ;_the constant applica- tion of dry lint sprinkling the excrescence with pulverized myrrh, or lapis calaminaris. Dr. Kirkland, ;„ ,lis Medica] Sundry, recommends myrrh dis- solved ,n lime-water applied by dossils of lint. R. Tincfune myrrhze, MUcc. Liquoris calcis, 5a. partes sequalw.142 INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. Of the hernia.—All pressure should be carefully avoided, and nothing in general need be done but daily to apply simple dressings; when the coaguluui will soon drop off, and the tu- mor waste away. Mr. Hill has treated several cases of tumor of this nature, which have attained a large size, by occasional paring. Ligatures and styptics arc dangerous, and should be avoided. Should the ha-morrhage be so great as to threaten danger, the coagulum should be removed, the bleeding vessel exposed, and some diluted vegetable astringent, as infusion of galls, may probably be applied with success to stop the bleeding. Mk Ahernethj. INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. The time of the accession of inflammation of the brain, when the consequence of external violence, is generally about the -seventh or tenth day; sometimes, however, not until after the expiration of several weeks after the injury bus been received. SYMPTOMS. Giddiness, nausea, and vomiting, or a severe rigor after some previous pain;—-the skin becomes hot;—the pulse hard and rapid, giving the sensation of a small vibrating cord;—the face is Hushed;—the tunica conjunctiva distended with blood, and there is morbid sensibility to the slightest impressions;—the pu- pil is contracted ;—the countenance wild;—raving delirium. Upon examining the injured part, it is usually found ede- matous and painful to the touch ;-an erysipelatous inflammation sometimes occupies the whole scalp ; and if there be a wound, this assumes a brown colour, is covered with a transparentINPLAMAfATION OF THE BRAW. l.vmph, and attended with a pulsating pain) shootIng to t],e extremifes.-Thc pericranium is often found detached, and the bone white, or covered with a bloody ichor. The patient is usually either destroyed during this, the in- flammatory stage • or the former symptoms in a great measure ''"appear, and those of suppuration succeed ,-severe rigors come oni-stupor or coma takes the place of constant vigilance and ,, followed by hemiplcgia;-the pupil becomes dilated — the unne and f.ces are passed involuntarily;-subsultus tendi- num convulsions, and death, are the infallible consequences, if speedy relief be not afforded. indications. TREATMENT, ' 1. In the first stage, to endeavour to procure a res°lution of the inflammation. 11. After suppuration has taken place, to give L . a free vent to the collected matter. I . By copious venesection, and the antiphlogistic treatment, re- ^mended ,n medica. works for phrenitis ;-by the topical use Of emolhent poultices, and of fomentations. 11. By the operation j performed as before described After the removal of the bone, if the matter be between that - the dura mater, it immediately finds an exit.-If it be col- cted underthe dura mater, Pertained by the tension of that -d by the evident fluctuation of a fluid beneath, ^« ar openmg should be cautiously made, and of , extent to "How of the evacuation of the matter. iifh'cient144- DISEASES OF THE EYE. OPHTHALMIA, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. f" Ophthalmia membranarum. Species. Ophthalmia tarsi. SYMPTOMS. Of the ophthalmia membranarum.-Tierdng pain confined to a point, as if occasioned by the presence of extraneous matter; -great feat and redness ;-the parts swell, and the vessels of the*eye not only increase in size and become turgid, but appear: more numerous than in the natural state.-Great pain upon the least motion of the eyeball ;_morbid sensibility to light ;-effu- sion of tears from the lachrymal gland, of an excoriating quality. -If the inflammation run high, a febrile disposition attends. After a longer or shorter continuance these appearances gra- dually abate, or entirely cease; but in some cases, although the patient is left free from pain, tumor, and symptomatic fever, yet the suffused redness of the eye, and the external marks of inflammation, still remain, and long continue to exist after every other symptom has subsided. During the continuance of the inflammation, small ulcer, are often formed upon the cornea, and little collections of matter are sometimes deposited between its-laming which frequen| harden into white opaque specks, and either partially or totally obstruct the entrance of light-Matter is also sometin.es effused into the chambers of the eye, and either remains in a fluid state, or becomes inspissated, and produces a permanent adhes.on of the iris; or assumes the shape of a membrane dividing the c ham- ber into two distinct cavities. In some cases, the disease has been observed to assume ® ,INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. H5 intermittent form, renewing its attacks after distinct intervals or to have regular exacerbations at a particular time of the day. The ophthalmia tarsi—consists in a chronic inflammation (frequently with ulceration) of the sebacious glauds, which are situated in the tarsus, or edges of the eyelids.—It is often pro- ductive of much irritation, and, when severe, occasions the destruction of the cilia or eyelashes.—It is universally esteemed a scrofulous affection. CAUSES. External injuries; such as blows, contusions, wounds of the eyes.—Extraneous bodies of an irritating nature, introduced tinder the eyelids;—exposure to bleak winds, and cold;—to* free a use of vinous and spirituous liquors;—suppression of ac- customed discharges ;—long exposure to strong light;—a fixed attention to some minute object;—trichiasis or inversion of the 1 eyelids.—It is symptomatic of certain other diseases, as measles, small-pox, scurvy, scrofula, and syphilis.—Contagion? TREATMENT. ' I I. Of the ophthalmia membranariim. 1. To remove causes that continue to operate, 11. To reduce the inordinate action of th« vessels in the first stage of the disease. Indications. J UI. To restore their tone, to increase their ac- tion, and thereby remove the congestion of the fluids, if the inflammation be pro- tracted, and assumes a chronic form. 1. Look to 1be Causes of Ophthalmia for their removal. Foreign bodies entangled in the eye, may be removed by 3 piece of wet lint attached to the end of a probe, or by a stiearu »f water injected by means of 0 syringe; while the inside of tar H146 INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE.' lid is turned outward, by the pressure of the fore-finger and thumb of one hand, applied to its lower edge. Particles of iron, forcibly projected, often stick in the cornea . the most effectual means of removing them is the application of the magnet. For the cure of trichiasis, when a cause of ophthalmia, see Trkliiasia. II. 1. By evacuations of blood from the temporal artery,—from the angular vein. Mr. Tf 'are. 2. 15y the application of leeches to the temples,—or by scarifi- cations of the inflamed vessel. 3. Brisk purgatives. 4. Small blisters applied to the temple. 5. Sedative, refrigerant, and slightly astringent collyria. COLLYRIUM PLUMBI ACETATIS. R. Liquoris acetatis plunibi gutt. x. Aqua; distillatte Jiv. Fiat collvrium. ' COLLYRIUM AMMONMS ACETATIS CUM OPIO. R. Liquoris ammoniac acetati3 Jij. Aquae distillate ferventis jvj. Extracti opii mollis gr. x. Dissolve the soft extract of opium in the boiling water; strain through fine linen, and add the liquor ot acetate of ammoma. Where the pain is very considerable, this is often productiV* of great relief. COLLYRIUM PLUMBI ACETATIS CUM CAMFHOKA. R. Spiritfls camphorse gutt. xx. Liquoris plumbi acetatis gutt. x. Aqua: distillatse Jvij. Fiat collyrlum.34 V INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. A weak solution of superacetate of lead ; or a lotion of the liquor ammonia; acetatis with rose-water;—the crenior plumbi acetatis;—a cataplasm composed of the soft pulp ■ of roasted apples. R. Superacetatis plumbi gr. viij. Aquae rosae distillatic Jviij. Fiat collynum. R. Liquoris ammonia: acetatis jj. Aquee roste distillate J;vij. Fiat collynum. 1 Where the secretions are deficient, the cataplasm of sulphate of soda is a good application. CATAPLASM.Y SOD/E SULPHATIS. R. Soda) sulphatis jj. Aquas ferventis Tt3fs. Mica- panis quantum suflicit. Fiat cataplasma. Should the pain and irritation lie very severe and'distressing, a drop of the vinous tincture of opium, conveyed twice daily iatn the eye, is an effectual means of relief. Mr. Ware. The opiate cullyrium is also nil excellcnt-remedy. COLLYnitrM OBU CUM CAMFHOHA. R. Extract! onii mollis gr. x. Camphoia: gr. vj. Aquae ferventis Jxij. The opium and camphire are to he rubbed together, the hot water then added, and the lirracrr lastly strained through a fine cloth.148 INFLAMMATION 01' THE EYE. Or, R. Foiuenti papaveris Jiv. Aquae rosae, Misturse cauiphorae, 5a. Jij. Misce et cola. Tlie poppy fomentation may also be used. Should the pain assume the intermittent form, the oxy-rouriate of mercury with Peruvian bark, and opium administered In large doses, a short time before the expected accession of the pain, are recommended. lii. By astringents and stimulants.—Collyria of sulphate of zine, of alum, of decoction of bark with lime-water, of the oxy- muriate of mercury, of acetic acid-acetate of ammonia and cam- plrirc. COLLYIUVM ZINCI SULPIIATIS, R. Ziuci sulphatis gr. x. Aquae rosse Jviij. Solve.' CO.LLYRIUM AC1DI ACETIC1. R. Acidi acetici Jj. Spiritus tenuioris Jfs. Aquae rosae Jvjfs. Fiat collyrium. COLLVIULM AMMON1.E ACETAT1S CAMrilORAH M R. Liquorw acetatis ammonia; Jij. Mistuise canipborx Jvj. Mioi.e.INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE.- fOLLYKJl'M ZINCI SULPHATIS CUM CAMPHOHA. R. Zinci sulpbatis 3j. Spiritds catuphonE Jjfs. Aqua; distillataj ferventis Jij. rosse Jiv. Pour the boiling water upon the zinc and camphorated spirit, in a closed vessel, and when cold strain through linen, then add- the rose-water. The alum, rose, and apple poultices. CATAPLASMA ALUMIN'IS. A lump of alum briskly stirred with the whites of two egg* until th.ey form a coagulum; to be applied to the eye between two pieces of thin rag. CATAr-LASMA ROS.'E. R. Confectionis rosae Jij. Fiat cataplasma. Confection of roses is by some very often applied to weak wa- tery eyes, as well as against chronic inflammation of the edges of the eyelids. Its mild adstringent property is considerably in- creased by the addition, of a small quantity of powdered alum, in the proportion of one or two grains to half a drachm of the confection. CATAPLASM V MALI COMPOSITE. R, Pomorum pulps, Mica; pauis allji, aa. Jij. Rosa> gallicae petalorum, Sambuci florura, 33. pugilluiu j. Camphone, Oroci, singulorura gr. vj. This formula is taken from Murray's Apparatus Meiliciiiuinum, and was very much used by De Hacn, li 33-5Q INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. The internal use of the oxy-nrariate of mercury, as an altera- tive. The application of oleum terebinthinss in an extremely diluted state. See Memoirs of the Medical Society, vol. v. Or the vapour arising from the oil of turpentine. Dr. Guthrie, in Duncan's Annals. : Enhines have been successfully employed ; as, the pulvisasari compositus, or sulphate of mercury. Mr. JFare. R. Hydrargyii sulphatis gr. j. Pulveris glycyrrhizae gr. viij. Iklisce optime pro pulvere errhino. • Electricity, in the form of gentle sparks from near the eye. When weakness of the eye alone remains, frequent ablution ■with cold water by means of an eye-cup. Of the ophthalmia tarsi. The internal use of the .muriate of mercury with cinchona;— the topical application of the unguentum bydrargyri nitratis;—- ceratum plumbi compositum;—sulphate of zinc, na.ade.into the form of an ointment. R. Zinci sulphatis 3J. . Unguenti cetacei Jj. Fiat unguentum, parum cujv,s applicetur parti affect node maueque. Should there be much pain, or great irritability, the poppy fomentation, or the hemlock ointment. UNGUENTUM CONU. R. Foliorum conii rtccntium contusorum, Adipis preparata-, aa. jiv. The hemlock is to be bruised in a marble mortar, after which the lard is to bp added, and the two ingredients thoroughly in-H 4 AMAUROSIS. JL51 •corporated by beating : they are then to be gently melted over the Sre, until the leaves become friable; and after being strained through a cloth, and the fibrous part of the hemlock well press- ed, the ointment to be stirred till quite cold. AMAUROSIS, OR GUTTA SERENA. This disease consists in a dimness of sight, whether the object tie near or at a distance, together with the representation of flies, dust, &c. floating before the eyes.—No derangement of struc- ture is evident to the sight;—the pupil is usually dilated and immovable. CAUSES. Paralysis of the optic nerves, or pressure upon them in their course, either by encysted tumors, diseases of contiguous bones, a dilatation of the circulus arteriosus surrounding the sella turcica (Mr. JVare), or a dilatation of the artery in the centre of the optic nerve;—a malconformation of the optic nerves themselves. TREATMENT. The general and local use of stimuli;—blisters and issues bs- hind the ears, or at the back of the neck. Errhines. Electricity, both sparks and gentle shocks. An infusion of Cayenne pepper; a few drops to be dropped Into the eye night and morning. R. Pulveris capsici gr. ij. Aqua- fcrventis 3ij. Macera per horam, dein cola per chartam pro usu. When accompanied with a contracted state of the pupil, and152 CATARACT. probably produced by internal ophthalmy, the internal us* of the oxy-iuuriate of mercury. Mr. Ware. If the disease be supposed to arise from compression, the op- posite of the above treatment should be practised : as bleeding, purging) &c. CATARACT. The cataract is an opaque state of the crystalline humour, or of its capsule, by which the rays of light arc obstructed in their passage to the retina. SYMPTOMS. Imperfect sight or mistiness in vision ;—the sensation of motes, particles of dust, flies, or other imaginary objects, float- ing in the air, or attached to the eye;—the patient seeing better in a weak than in a strong light;—an opacity becomes sensible, and gradually increases, until nearly a total loss of vision is produced ;—the crystalline lens gradually changes from a state of transparency to a perfectly white or gray colour; in some rare ^stances it has been black, and also red; and in appearance resembles a pearl, or other extraneous body of a like colour, situated immediately behind the pupil—The cataract varies in its consistence, being sometimes hard, at others entirely dissolved. Dr. Beve enumerates the following distinctive appearances : The hard cataract is equally opaque, has no specks nor spots, is partially detached from the iris, so as frequently to admit of objects being seen laterally j—the opacity begins in the centre, and slowly spreads; its colour is gray, or more or less inclining to green.—In the operation, when opening the cornea, the pu- pil strongly contracts. The soft cataract appears streaked or radiated, the opacityCATARACT. 153 begins uniformly over the whole surface, the loss of visicn is more complete; — it is of a shining white colour, approaches nearer to the iris, and even presses forward into the pupil; the spots often change their position, and upon opening the cornea the pupil does not contract. The connate cataract is mostly in a dissolved state. The cataract produced by an opacity of the capsule of the lens is distinguished by its peculiar shining surface, and by the ap- pearance of silver-like lines, forming radii or stars. In fluid cataracts the capsule is also usually opaque. TREATMENT. In the incipient state—mercury, particularly the submuriaU, or oxy-muriate, in small doses. Electricity, in the form of aura, or weak sparks. Hj'oscyamus has been highly extolled. When any degree of inflammation is present, local bleeding, and the antiphlogistic regimen. After these remedies have been employed without success, the, cure must depend upon a surgical operation. For performing this, two methods are in general use, each of which has its ad- locates. The first of these is called couching; the second is termed extraction. COUCHING. To guard as much as possible against the effects of inflam- mation, the patient should be confined for several days previous to the operation to a low regimen;—if plethoric, lie should be. bled, and two or three doses of some cooling laxative should he administered after proper intervals.—These and other ncce< sary preparations being made, the patient should be so placed, that light may fall upon the eye in one direction only}—hfl H 5151. CATARACT* should be seated in a low chair; the operator should also be in i sitting position, but more elevated, his elhow resting upon his knee properly raised, his ring and little fingers supported upon the cheek or temple of the patient.—The upper eyelid is to be elevated by an assistant, and the lower depressed by the right hand of the surgeon; or the eye is to be fixed by means of a speculum invented for the purpose.—The couching-needle (the best construction of this instrument is that recommended by Mr. Hey—see his Observations in Surgery) is now to be en- tered, in an horizontal direction, through the sclerotic coat, a little below the axis of the eye, and about a quarter of a line beyond the transparent co'-nea, so as to get entirely behind the iris ; taking care not to wound this, by opposing to it the flat side of the instrument, if a needle of this form has been made choice of. Its point is then to be pushed forward, in a direction towards the centre of the eye (Mr. Hey) ; and, when dis- cernible through the pupil, it is to be fixed in the body of the lens, when, by elevating the handle, and thereby depressing the point, the lens, if solid, is to be pushed down by one, if fluid, by several movements, to the bottom of the vitreous ' humour.—The needle is then to be withdrawn, the eyelids closed, and covered with a soft compress moistened with a saturnine solution, or (as is recommended by Mr. Tellier) eovered with a linen bag, half filled .with fine wool, applied dry, and fixed to a circular bandage passed around the forehead. This should not be removed before the eighth day, during which time the antiphlogistic regimen should he strictly enforced. Should the lens, before absorption takes place, regain its former situation, a repetition of the operation may become ne- cessary; and may even be performed many times successively,CATARACT. 155 H 6 not only with impunity, bat with ultimate success.—Vide Hey'u Observations in Surgery. EXTRACTION. The patient and operator being placed, and the eye fixed, as for couching, the point of the cornea knife (the blade of this is formed like a spear-pointed lancet,—on one edge it is sharp throughout its whole extent, on the other only for a short *pace from its point), with the cutting edge downwards, is to be passed into the transparent cornea, at about one twelfth of an inch from the opaque, and as high as the centre of the pupil; it is then to be carried forwards to the point opposite to that at which it entered ; this being pierced, it should be again pushed cn, until, by its increasing breadth, the outer angle of the transparent cornea has been completely divided, and a semi- lunar flap has been consequently formed. A small needle, in- vented for the purpose, with a book at its extremity, is now to be introduced beneath the flap, to be passed cautiously through the pupil, and with it an opening Is to be formed in the capsule of the lens, by gentle and repeated scratches, with its curved point. This being done, the eye is to be shaded, to allow the pupil to dilate as much as possible; after which, upon gentle pressure being made upon the eyeball, at either the upper or under edge of the orbit, the crystalline lens will pass out through the opening made in the cornea. When the cataract does not come out entire, or where it is found to adhere to contiguous paiLs, the small scoop should be introduced, to remove any detached pieces, or adhesions, that may be present. When the opacity is solely in the capsule, some practitioners Itttempt to extract first the lens, and then the capsule, by the forceps or tenaculum; others the lens and capsule entire; de--J 56 WOUNDS OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBALL. taching them from .their connexions by lateral motion with the needle.—In many instances it has become totally absorbed after the extraction of its lens.—The subsequent treatment will be precisely as above described. WOUNDS OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBALL. Superficial wounds of the eyelids may, in general, be united by slips of adhesive plaster.—When deep, particularly where the tarsus lias been divided, the interrupted suture will be re- quired. In making this, care should be taken that the stitches do not penetrate the inner membrane, otherwise much irritation and inflammation will be induced.—Inflammation should be gUKrded against, or, if already present, removed by the means recommended under the article Ophthalmia. Wounds of the cornea are most commonly followed by par- tial or total loss of sight.—In any other part of the eyeball the danger will be in proportion to the extent of the wound.—Pain may be allayed by opium, and a strict antiphlogistic regimen i» (o be enjoined. SPECKS AND FILMS. These occur in two different states.—The one arises from an effusion immediately under the external layer of the cornea; in v\ Inch case the cornea does not appear to be raised.—The other takes place in consequence of one or more little ulcers, which breaking, leave as many opaque spots in the centre, considerably more elevated than the rest of the cornea. CAU.SE. Almost universally preceding inflammation.SPECKS AND FILMS, Jj/ TREATMENT. In the first species, local applications are attended with little or no advantage—A long course of mercurial alteratives, espe- cially the oxy-muriate of mercury,—briskpurgatives.-errhincs^ -blisters, and issues in the neck, are the means which have been found most effectual in removing them. In the second species.—Dividing the vessels running into the prominent part, by means of a circular incision ;-finely levi- gated powders; as alum joined with sugar, the acetate of copper, the nitric oxyd of mercury, the submuriate of mercury, powdered shell of the cuttle-fish, prepared tutty ;-a collyrium of a weak solution of the oxy-muriate of mercury 5-the ophthalmic oint- ment. UNGUENTUM OPHTHALMICUM, R. Hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi, Calamine preparata?, aa. jjfs. Flumbi oxydi-semivitrei jj. Tutia; preparata: %k. Sulphureti hydrargyri rul)ri 3j. Baisami Peruvian! gutt. xv. Adipis preparata! Jij. The powders being well rubbed together and mixed with ths laid, the balsam of Peru is lastly to be added. Vel R. Hydrargyri prsecipitati albi, TutiiE preparatae, Calamina: preparatte, singulorum 2'j- Tineturse benzoe's composite 3}. Adipis preparata! 3'iij. The white precipitate of quicksilver, tutty, and calamine, being rubbed separately, and afterwards well mixed together, the lard is next to be joined, and, lastly, the tincture of benzocs.158 ABSCESS OP THE EYE. The liquor cupri ammoniati;—caustic lightly applied until some degree of pain is created ; and afterwards long-continued ablu- tion with water.—In films or opacities of the cornea, animal gall has been applied with success. PTERGYRIUM, OR EXCRESCENCE. This is a membranous exerescence, often found upon the ■white part of the eye, which frequently spreads over the cornea, so as entirely to destroy vision.—It is sometimes attended with great pain, and has terminated in cancer. CAUSES. External injury;—inflammation ;— scrofula;—lues venerea. TREATMENT. The careful application of caustic, as directed against speclts- in the eye;—excision,—a division of the vessels which supply it with nourishment, by means of a scarification made completely round its circumference. ABSCESS. A collection of matter in the eye in consequence of ophthal- mic inflammation.—This must necessarily tal<e place betwixt one or other of the coats of the eye, varying in its quantity and extent in different cases. —Often, when deep sealed, a purulent matter is apt to be formed in some of the chambers of the eye, which kind of abscess is called Hypopm, when the ball becomes enlarged, the humours disturbed, and neither the iris, pupil, nor lms, can be ttistinSuished.-Thc external appearance of the ballulcers on the eye. jgg becomes altered, irregular, and fall of protuberance,.—While the disease is forming, besides the loss of sight, the patient feds great distress in the eye and head, and the usual symptoms of few—The deposition is discharged, either naturally, or by the assistance of art. An abscess lodged in the snbstance of the coats of the eye is not an unfrequent consequence of variola : it is also sometimes produced by external injury. TREATMENT. The collected matter should be evacuated by an incision made into the eye, in the most prominent part of the tumor—In- flammation is afterwards to be obviated by the most rigid anti- phlogistic regimen, and by the means recommended for the treat- ment of ophthalmia. ULCER. He leers on the eye arise from the same causes Which produce ulcers on other parts of the body, as accidental injury, wounds, burns, &c.-They may also be the consequence of a general affection of the constitution ; as, lues venerea, scrofula, &c— They are more immediately produced by inflammation. TREATMENT. If inflammation be present, this should first be removed by appropriate means; after which their management must, be nearly the same as that of similar affections in other parts;-the cremor plumbi acetatis is a good application—See 1,,/Lmma. lion, page 5. 3STYE ON THE EYELID. 160 If cicatrization proceed slowly : — Astringents and tonics, in the form of solution or ointment } as, the sulphas zinci,—oxyninrias hydrargyri,— a solution of alum,—an infusion of galls, or oak bark.—The application of absorbent powders; as, prepared calamine. If there be great attendant pain, opium, or the poppy foment- ation. FUNGUS. Fungous excrescences, sometimes considered as a cancer of the eye, are apt to form as a consequence of both the preceding diseases.—In some rare instances, also, excrescences of a fungous nature are found to be connected with the interior parts of the eye, and to become so prominent as even to rest upon the cheek. TREATMENT. When small in size, gentle escharotics : alumen usturn ;—th* nitrate of silver; with subsequent ablution. R. .'Eruginis Jfs. Aluminis usti 3'1'ij. Fiat pulvis escharoticus. R. Antiraonii tartarisati, Aluminis usti, 5a. partes requales. Fiat pulvis cscharoticus. When large, excision, or ligature. HORDEOLUM, OR STYE. This is a small abscess, seated in the edge of the eyelid, and produced by an obstruction in one of its sebacious glands.—II is attended with heat, stiffness, pain, and considerable irritability.STEATOMATOUS TUMORS. 161 TREATMENT. A small emollient poultice;—an opening made with the point cf a lancet, and afterwards the application of the ursguentum bydrargyri nitrati. STEATOMATOUS TUMORS AND WARTS. Small encysted tumors and wart, are apt to form about the eye- lids, and occasion much inconvenience and deformity. TREATMENT. Of the first.—A careful extirpation, as directed for tumors of this kind situated in other parts, see Encysted Tumors;-and if the situation will admit, adhesive plaster may be applied to effect an union, otherwise the part should be daily covered with some bland liniment. TTarts may be removed by caustics, ligature, or excision, guarding against subsequent inflammation by refrigerant lotions, •r small emollient cataplasms. OLEUM CAMl'HORiE CAUSTICUM, R. C'amphone Jj Acidi nitrici f?ij. Digeinutur in vase probe obturate. Facta solutione oleum su- . pernatans separetur. This should be cautiously applied by the point of a probe or TRICHIASIS, OR INVERSION OF THE CILIA. In this disease the eyelashes are so much inverted as to rub Upon Hie eye, and produce much painand inflammation.162 INVERSION OF THE CILIA. CAUSESi The hairs themselves taking a wrong direction ;—inversion ol the tarsus; a cicatrix of this part in consequence of a wound, or ulcer;—tumors pressing the hairs in upon the eye j—a relaxation Of the external integuments. TREATMENT. Extraction of the eyelashes.—If inflammation be present, the |« local applications recommended for ophthalmia.—When arising id from the presence of tumors, the removal of these.—When from cicatrix on the inside of the eyelid, this should be divided by an I incision.—If from an inversion of the lower lid, produced by re- I loxation, excision of a transverse fold of the integuments, and It consequent union by the first intention (by the interrupted su- It ture); strong astringents; or the part may be drawn back, and m long retained in that situation, by means of adhesive plaster.— If from an inversion of the upper lid, from the same cause (a relaxation of the levator palpebrae), the most powerful astrin- gents. A case is related by Mr. Ware, in which an operation, per- formed as follows, was attended with success:—An incision having been made through the integuments, from the inner to ttie' outer angle of the eye, the fibres of the orbicularis muscle were separated, and the expansion of the elevator exposed ; after ■Whrch a small cauterizing iron, adapted to the convexity of the globe of the eye, was made pretty warm, and passed two or three l times over the tendino-carneous fibres. When the disease proceeds from a contraction of the orbicu- « laris, enlarging the circumference of the ciliary edges, by means L o( an incision made at the outer angle of the eye.163 CONCRETION' OF THE EYELIDS. RETORTION OF THE EYELIDS, OR GAPING EYE. This consists in a large portion of the eyelid being turned out- wards; by which too much of the eye is exposed. CAUSES. Dropsical swellings of the eye (-cicatrix from sores, produced by inflammation, variola, syphilis, scrofula, &c. j—laxity of the part in old age. TREATMENT. If the disease proceed from the first of the causes above „ enumerated, recourse is to be had to the treatment afterwards i to be mentioned.-If from cicatrix, division of the contracted part by an incision.—If from debility or laxity, cold and astringent applications. CONCRETION OF THE EYELIDS. _ This is mostly the consequence of a high degree of ophthalmia. A cohesion may either take place betwixt the lids themselves, or the lids may form adhesions to the surface of the eyeball. TREATMENT. When slight, the adhesion may he removed by the end of a blunt probe, passed between the lids.—When more consi- derable, a cautious dissection will be necessary.—A few drops Of bland oil should afterwards be applied to the eye, and every precaution taken to prevent the accession of inflammation and irritation.161- PROTRUSION OF THE EYE. DROrSY OF THE EYE Consists in a preternatural accumulation of the aqtiemi* humour.—It is attended by a sense of fulness in the eyeball ;— the motions of the eyelids, by degrees, become impeded;— vision gradually becomes more and more imperfect, till at last the patient can only distinguish light from darkness. The ball of the eye becomes gradually enlarged 5—the cornea begins to protrude, and, if suffered to proceed, at length bursts, and the fluid is discharged. TREATMENT. 1 A puncture or incision made at the under edge of the cornea, into the anterior chamber of the eye, or through the sclerotic coat, into the posterior, of sufficient extent to admit ef the evacuation of the fluid. PROTRUSION OF THE EYE. The protrusion of the eyeball beyond its socket is not an un- frequent effect of external violence;—it may also be produced by tumors fanning behind it, by a dropsical affection of the eye it-elf, or by an enlargement of the lachrymal gland. TREATMENT. When the consequence of external injury, if the eyeball be not entirely separated from the neighbouring parts, it should be carefully {rce^ from extraneous matter, and returned to it* situation; when the faculty of sight will often be recovered, should the optic nerve remain uninjured.—When it arises from collections within the.eyc itself, these are to he evacuated. See J)rapsy and Abscess.—Other cnuics are to be removed by the means proper for each.165 ■CANCER. CANCER. SYMPTOMS. Enlargement, hardness, and protrusion of the eyeball —>a*- fcinatfng intermitting pain, extending to the side of the head — sensation of burning heat in the part ;-a red fungus soon makes Hs appearance, which often increases until it attains a large size and discharges a thin excoriating ichor. TREATMENT. In the early stage, inflammation and pain should be mode- rated by blood-letting, emollient applications, opium, poultices of con.um and digitalis, lotions composed of a solution of opium in lime-water. In the advanced stage, the safely of the patient can only he ensured by an operation. THE OPERATION'. The diseased eyeball is to be firmly secured in a proper situa- tion, by means of a tenaculum, or double hook, held in the left hand of the operator; while with the other he separates the •Whole of the diseased from the sound parts, and completely ex- brpatcs the eye by means of a Knife, so bent as to correspond «th the sides of the orbit; a, the same time carefully guarding jamst wounding the periosteum, or doing injury to the bone,. -The eye being thus remo ed, the hemorrhage, if .here be any, would be suppressed by means of compresses of lint, Or sponge < covering the whole with soft dressing, and moderating the con- 7'""nt in"ammati0n ^ tl,e »«* rigid observance of the an.i- mlogistic regimen. The deformity unavoidably produced may in S8mc measure be •bviatcd by wearing an artificial eye.FISTULA- LACHRYMALIS. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. Fistula lachrymalis is a sinuous or fistulous ulcer of the la- chrymal sac or duct—Its progress to this state may be divided into three stages. SYMriOMS. Of the first stage.—A small tumor between the inner corner; •f the eye and side of the nose, which disappears upon pressure, but soon returns after the compressing cause is removed—The eye is constantly moistened with tears mixed with mucus, which also frequently flow over the cheek—Sometimes a slight opln thalmia, or inflammation of the eyelids, succeeds, and the latter are often found glued together upon awaking from sleep—The disease in this state has been called the watery eve, or dropsy ot the lachrymal sac. Of the sccoud stage—The swelling enlarges in size, inflames, and suppurates--there is considerable pain and discolouration, and, upon pressure, pus is discharged from the puncta lachry- malia. Of the third stage.—At length the abscess bursts ;-if the aperture be small, it frequently heals and burst, alternately, until the opening becomes sufficiently large to p.,vent any further collection—The disease in this state exhibits the appear- ance of a sinuous ulcer, with callous, sometimes with retortefl, edges, and now forms what is properly the fistula lachrymalis— The passage from the sac into the tu.se is completely obstructed and tears, mucus, and purulent matter, are abundantly d„ charged, and flow down the cheek-In some instances the con J t.jguous bone becomes carious.FISTULA LACHRYMALI* 167 CAUSES. Remote.—Scrofulous inflammation of the membrane lining the nose ;—pustules arising in the duct, in consequence of exanthe-» matous diseases;—syphilitic ozrcna, or ulceration of the mucous membrane cf the nose from whatever cause. Proximate.—An obstruction of the lachrymal duct, from con- traction and thickening of its membrane. TREATMENT. In the early stage of the disease, attempts should be made, to remove the obstruction—by means of a small probe intro- duced at one of the puncta lachrymalia, and passed through the sac and duct into the nose;—by syringing aqueous fluids through the puncta—it has been proposed to inject quicksilver by the same manner;—by repeated and frequent, or constant pressure on the sac; the latter either by means of an instrument invented for the purpose, or by simple compress or bandage. In the inflamed state, local bleeding by leeches;—laxatives, —sedative and refrigerant lotions. See Ophthalmia. An incision into the tumor; and after the inflammation arising from it has subsided, the nasal duct should be searched for with a probe, and, when found, a piece of catgut bougie should be in- troduced and kept there, its edge being bent a little downwards, nil (lie -ides of the duct arc skinned over and healed. Mr. Ware recommends the following mode of treatment: — If an aperture into the lachrymal sac has not already been spon- taneously formed, or if it be formed in an improper situation, a puncture should be made into it, with a common spear-pointed lancet, at a small distance from the internal juncture of the palpebra, just under the tendon of the orbicularis muscle, and about one fourth of an inch within the ridge of the orbit* The168 FISTULA LACHRYMAL I*. blunt end of a small silver pvobe U then to be introduced through the wound, and gently but steadily pushed on in the direction of the nasal duct, with a force sufficient to overcome the obstruction in this canal; it is then to be withdrawn, when a small silver stile., -with a fiat head like that of a nail, is to be in- troduced into the place it occupied, and to be left constantly in it; withdrawing it at first daily for about a week, afterwards every second or third day. Some warm water should each time be injected through the duct into the nose, and after this the instru- ment should be replaced in the same manner as before, and its head covered with a piece of diachylon or court plaster.—The length of time recpuired for the cure of the disease will be vari- ous ; after the expiration of a month or six weeks, the instrument may occasionally be discontinued, and again employed should the cure not have been effected.—Where the disease has been of long standing, and the duct and contiguous parts have become so dis- rased as not to admit the introduction of the probe or stilette, an artificial opening should be made through the os unguis into the nose, by means of a curved trochar, introduced in the direction above recommended for the puncture; after which the stile or bougie should be passed into the opening thus formed, and worn as already described. Other modes of treatment have been recommended, as the introduction of a canula into the nasal duet, Sic. ; but they have beon found liable to objections, from which the above jeenrs exempt.169 DISEASES OF THE EAR. The diseases of this organ are numerous, and their effect is generally a partial or total destruction of the function of hearing. INFLAMMATION AND SUPPURATION. SYMPTOMS. Considerable pain darting through the ear,—redness, and heat;—these either gradually diminish, and at length entirely tease; or matter is formed and discharged at the meatus. Chronic ulceration is not unfrequently the consequence of the disease; when a discharge of an acrid fetid matter from the ear becomes habitual. TREATMENT. In the inflammatory state.—Water as warm as the patient can bear, frequently poured into the meatus auditorius; or the in- troduction of soft wool dipped in the common decoction for fo- mentations—Blisters behind the ear. In the chronic ^.-Injections of soap and water arc mostly very beneficial;-of sulphate of zinc;_0f oxy-muriate of mer- cury dissolved in lime-water: R. Zinci sulpliatis 3fs. Aqua; riorum sambuci Jviij. fiat injectio ter in die applicanda. R. Hydrargyri-oxymuriatis gr. x. Liquoris calcis O. j. fiat injectio nocte mancquc utenda. i170 ACCUMULATION OF tVAX IN THE LAIt.- The union of balsiuhum Peruvianum with gall: BALSAMUM FBRUVMNUM CUM KELLE. R. Fellis bovini 3'iij. Balsami Peruriani 31. Miscc. A drop or two to be put into the ear with a little cotton. , Dr. Hugh Smith directs this to be employed in cases where a constant fetid discharge indicates a diseased state of its secre- tion. Setons or perpetual blisters as near as possible to the ear. A grain of musk introduced into the ear with cotton wooU Brookes. ACCUMULATION OF WAX. An accumulation of indurated wax in the ear is one of the most frequent causes of deafness. TREATMENT. The introduction of a small portion of oil of almonds, drop- ped upon cotton, and after suffering it to remain for a day or two, syringing the ear with warm milk and water, or solution of soap ; —or common salt, which is used by Dr. Haygarth as the best solvent of the accumulated wax. R. Sodas muriatis 3j. Aqua; distillata: quantum suflieit. Fiat injectio. R. Saponis duri Jfs. Aqua- distillata; O. j. Fiat injectio.i g CtOStNO Off THK EUSTACHIAN TUBE. J 71 DEFICIENCY OF WAX. Peafness is sometimes the consequence of a morbidly dry sjate- 6f the ear, arising from a defective action in the glanduja: ccru- mineae. TREATMENT. The application of volatile and stimulating substances to the membrane lining the ears, by means of cotton, wool, &c.;—the linimentuin ammonia; carbonatis.—Oleum terebiuthina: dilute with oil of almonds. Mr. Maule, CLOSING OF THE EUSTACHIAN TUBE. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. It is preceded by some disease of the nose or throat i as, co- ma, aphtha*, enlargement of the tonsils, want of secretion in the parts, fee.—Upon an effort to expire, at the same lime re- taining the breath by stopping the mouth and nose, there is nu sense of distention of the tympanum.—The sound of the pa- tient's voir.- appearing more dull to himself than the voice of ether people;—constant noises referred to the affected ear ; these arc described as sometimes resembling the hissing of a ten kettle, at others like the running of water, high wind blowing through trees, or even like thunder.—Persons deaf from this cause, hear better in a carriage, or in any considerable noise. Dr. Sims, Memoirs of the Medico} Society. CAUSES. Obstruction of the Eustachian tube, in cgnscqnence of vene- real affections of the throat;—ulcerations of the fauces or nose from other causes;—common cold affecting parts contiguous to the orifices of the tube j—the pressure of tumors;—the presence of inspissated mucus;—extravasation of blood in the cavity of the tyuipanum. Coo^kt.1?2 ATONY OF THE MUSCLES OF THE EAR. TREATMENT. When the tube is only slightly infarcted with glutinous matter, repeated swallowing, gaping, yawning, or gurgling, have in some instances removed it.—Whatever forces a current of air into the tube; as, speaking loudly,—coughing,—sneezing,—re- tention of the breath, at the same time making an effort to expire. Lj If inflammation be present, cupping,—the application of blis- ters,—the insertion of issues in the neighbourhood of the part. Syringing the Eustachian tube from the nose or mouth. Perforation of the mastoid process, and thereby restoring the I communication between the external air and the cavity of the Eustachian tube. Haighton, in Memoirs of the Medical Society. I A puncture made t hrough the membrana tympani, by means of a sharp probe. Aslley Cooper, Philosophical Transactions. 1 rOLYPUS. The polypi appearing in the ear are of the same species, and require precisely the same treatment, as those of the nose. See IJiscasns of the A'twe. ' ATONY OF THE MUSCLES OR NERVES OF THE EAR. A h»ss of tone in the muscles and nerves concerned in t?ie function ol hearing, may be induced by previous debilitating diseases, as fever, &C.; or by paralysis of these parts conse- quent on cold. Against which, electricity—the electric aura; — powerful stimuli, as oleum terebiuthinae, or liquor ammonia-, pBopurly 'liluted, may be useful.IMPERFORATE MEATUS AUDITOR IU6. lTlj DEAFNESS OF OLD PEOPLE I* most commonly owing to a relaxation of Die tympanum; n usually accompanied with confused sounds, and noi.es ui various kinds, referred to the ear. TRF.ATMKVr. Hot stimulating oils applied by menu of wool;—tbespiritnj ammonia? aromaticus united with tinctura larendulse; the use of an instrument invented for the purpose of collecting bound. EXTRANEOUS BODIES IN THE EAR. These rsay often be extracted by means of a small forceps, or by syringing the ear with tepid water.—Should these means be unsuccessful, they may be suffered to remain with impunity if they do not produce pain, as in a ibort time they will be forced out with the accumulating wax. Insect* may be killed by filling the ear with oil, or any other fluid, and afterwards be removed by injections of warm water. IMPERFORATE MEATUS AUDITORIUS. The external passage to the ear is sometimes covered with a thin membrane, at others the cavity is filled up by a flesh* sub- itance, occasioning perfect deafness. TRKATMUVT. An incision continued until a resistance i< no longei Ml to Hie passage of the knife or lancet: —the wound afterwards L-pl op ,u hj 'he iotr./ductina of dossil* of lint.174- HEMORRHAGE PROM THE NOSE. DISEASES OF THE NOSE AND ITS APPENDAGES, HAEMORRHAGE FROM THE NOSE. treatment; ■■■■> ■ ■ ■■ ■ The local means employed for the suppression of hemorrhage from the nose, are—dossils of lint introduced by means of a probe, and moistened with a strong solution of alum,—of sul- phate of zinc, —or sulphate of copper:—the gut of a small animal, tied at oqe end, pushed to the further part of the nostril, ahd] filled with vinegar and water, or an astringent solution, and' afterwards secured by ligature, is a nasty inefficient application, though recommended in most books on surgery. A small pledget of lint covered with pulverized alum, of" moistened with one of the astringent solutions above mentioned, conveyed to the posterior aperture of the nostril, by attaching' il to a waxed thread or piece of catgut, the other extremity of which has previously been passed through the nose into the throat, and thence drawn with a forceps into the month. For the medical treatment of Epistaxis, consult writers on the practice of physic. rOLYPI. These arc tumors formed from the membrane lining the nose. | There are two species; the common, and the ram erotic-I'OLYPI IN THE NOSE. 175 CHARACTER* Of the common polypus.—It is pendulous, and hangs by a small pedicle; —it is moveable within the nose; its size is in- fluenced by the state of the weather, the protrusion being lat- est when hazy and damp;—it is of the natural colour of thesUin, 01 of a faint red, in some degree transparent, and free from pain i -^it sometimes projects from the anterior, sometimes from the posterior, aperture into the nose. Of the cancerous polypus.—This is much harder in its texture than the preceding;—it is of a livid colour;—its surface is irre- gular;—it is attended with a peculiarly pungent and lancinating pain j-^it-ulcerates, discharges a fetid matter, and, if not exth> pated, goes on to the destruction of the nose and contiguous parts, and ultimately the life of the patient. TREATMENT. Of the first species.—The topical use of astringents; as alum,, eak-baik, vinegar, ardent spirits.—i-If these prove ineffectual, removal by excision, by means of scissars; or ligature, applied by means of the tonsil instrument.—It may be sometimes suc- cessfully drawn forcibly away with the forceps. Of the second species.—Excision, or forcible extraction, practicable;—the internal and external use of opium and conium —an injection of tinctura ferri muriatis, and the oxygenated muriatic acid diluted. R. Tinctura: ferri muriatis Jj. A<;uir. distillate Jvij. Fiat injectio. R. Acidi oxy-muriatici § Aqme distillate J\ij. Fiat injectio. i 4©ZtENA. 176 OZCENA. A discharge of purulent mucus from the nose, produced by an inflammation and ulceration of its mucous membrane. CAUSE, Cold;—any thing producing an irritation of the part;—all the causes of catarrh;—external violence;—syphilis. TREATMENT. Astringent injections; as, decoction of bark with alum, a solution of muriate of mercury, or of sulphate of zinc. Bljster» to the temple. R. Aluminis purlficati Jls. Decocti quercus Jxij. Solve pro injectione. R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriati6 gr. yj. Aquae distillate §viij. Solve pro injectione. The water-dock taken internally is said to hare removed the com plaint. R. Radicis hydrolapathi reccntis concisae Jvj. Aquoe purse O. Decoque ad colaturara octarium dimidium, quotidie, partitis haus« tibus, bibendura,MATTER IN THE ANTRUM OF 1IIGHMORE. 177 IMPERFORATE NOSTRIL. The passage into the nose may be either originally imperforate, or it may be closed by accidental injury or disease, as burns, small-pox, venereal or other ulcers. "TREATMENT. An incision made with a lancet or common scalpel; and the opening prevented from closing, by the introduction of dossils of ■lint, or a metallic tube, into the nose. COLLECTIONS OF MATTER IN THE ANTRUM OF H1GHMORE. SYMPTOMS. Pain extending upwards to the eyes, nose, and ears;—swell- ing and redness of the integuments over the part;—frequently on a sudden, and especially upon rising from bed, a discharge of matter issues from the nose, which affords a relief to the symp- toms until the cavity becomes again distended. TREATMENT. The extraction of the first molar tooth is recommended, and evacuating the matter by means of a puncture made, through the alveolus, with a stilette or sharp-pointed instrument ; and after the contents of the cavity have thus been emptied, prevent- ing the sides of the opening from closing, by means of a plug or bougie; and occasionally injecting tincture of myrrh, or some astringent Uuid. > .■)•MATTER IN THE STNUSES. 178 CANCER OF THE ANTRUM. This is supposed to originate in a polypus of a nature similar to that already described as occurring in the nose. It may be suspected to exist, by the chronic enlargement of the part, and by the peculiar and charasteristic cancerous pain;^-the true nature of the disease is, however, seldom ascertained, until 't has extended its ravages to the nose and neighbouring parts, and produced the most horrid deformity.—It at length terminates fatally. COLLECTIONS OF MATTER IN THE FRONTAL AND SPHENOIDAL SINUSES. SYMPTOMS. Tain and considerable swelling of the brow,—tenderness to the touch,—alteration of voice,—frequent How of tears:—after some continuance of these symptoms, a sudden gush of matter issues from the nose, and the symptoms are relieved. TREATMENT. Little can be done; the disease being out of the reach of the usual remedies.—A blister applied to the temple or forehead, and kept open with the ceratum lyttse, has been employed with sueerss.—The pain may be relieved by opium.179 i 6 DISEASES OF THE LIPS. THE HARE LIP. A fissure generally in the upper lip, and sometimes extending- to the bony palate, which, by causing a preternatural projection, creates some resemblance to the lip of a hare. THE OPERATION. The deformity may in great.measure be removed by an opera- tion.—In performing it, the first step is the separation of the adhesions to the gum which usually exist at the fissured part; after which, by means of a scalpel or scissars, the edges of the opening are to be successively pierced at the upper part, and by carrying the instrument forwards along their whole extent, a thin portion of the edge is to be cut off, so that an entirely raw surface may remain, to be united by the first intention. The cheeks of the patient being brought forward by an assistant, the sides of the wound are to be accurately brought together, and rcr .taincd in their situation by means of small pins made of silver with steel points, which, when inserted, wit h their attached ligature,*, havcoblaincd the name of the twisted suture. See Plate XII. fig. 1 and 2. In the adult three pins will be required; the first should be inserted as near as possible to the red part of the lip,—the se- cond should he passed near to the upper angle of the fissure,—the. third should occupy a middle space between the two. In passing them' from one side of the fissure to the other, care should be taken that they do not completely penetrate the substance of the hi-.—In children one may be sufficient.—After the insertion of the pins, a waxed ligature is to be applied upon each, by being180 CANCER OF THE LIP. passed repeatedly under and over from side to side, so as to de- scribe the figure 8. By these means the edges will be retain- ed in contact, and the wound will be closed, with little defor- mity. In children the operation should be deferred until they have been weaned.—Should there be a fissure on both sides, the second operation should not be performed until a twelvemonth after the first cure has been effected.—In cases where the bony palate is also defective, the dentists have invented an artificial one of silrer* CANCER. SYMPTOMS. This disease, when occurring in the lip, generally commences with a small crack, which becomes exquisitely painful, and, upon examination, is found to be formed in a small, hard, deep- seated tumor.—The pain soon becomes more intense, and is pun- gent and lancinating;—ulceration ensues, and if its progress be not timely suspended, the life of the patient is endangered by an extension of the disease, first to the glands of the neck, after- wards to other parts of the body. TREATMENT. The most certain mnde of obtaining a cure is the excision of the part.—This, when the disease is not far advanced, may be veadily done by an incision on each side of the diseased portion, made in a direction sufficiently oblique, as that the union of the two may form an angle at the inferior part of the tumor; and after the extirpation of which, that the sides of the wound may be brought together, and united either by the twisted or by the interrupted suture.SARCOMATOUS TUMOR OP THE LIP. 181 After the disease has become more extensive, such mode of treatment will be impracticable : a free and perfect excision of the part should be made, and the wound suffered to fill up by granu- lations. Arsenical caustics have been used with success in the early stage of the disease.—Various other applications are also reported to have effected cures; as the constant application of the root of a large common onion, &c. Professor Hufeland relates a case in which the liquor ammonia-, with a decoction of the sprigs of the pine, were effectually em- ployed. SARCOMATOUS TUMOR. An accretion of the skin and integuments of the lip not un- frequently takes place, which so much resembles cancer, as to have been often mistaken for it.—It is distinguished from that disease, by the absence of pain and ulceration. TREATMENT. It may, when small, be readily removed by cscharotics; and when large, by excision performed as above recommended far cancer.182 DISEASES OF THE INTERIOR OF THE MOUTH. APHTH/E OR THRUSH. Vide Exarithcmatous Diseases, and the Diseases of Children, yi medical works. Chronic aphthae are often benefited by the following. GABGABISMA ACIDI MUBIATICI. R. Acidi rauriatici gutt. xx. Mellis rosae Jj. Decocti hordei vel litii Jiv. Misce. Mis-ce. GABGABISMA SOD.E BORAT1S. R. Soda; boratis 31,]. Mellis rosa; Jj. Aqua: rosa; Jvij. GABGABISMA /EBUGINIS. R. Liniinenti eeruginis jij. Mellis rosac Jj. Infusi lini Jvj. Misce. The ulcerations should be touched three times a-day with a pencil brush.TONGUE-TIED. 188 SIBENIC ULCERS. Th«e arc- small superficial ulcerations on the tonsils, uvula »nd sides of the tongue, that accompany the sibbens, a cutane- ous disease which attacks the inhabitants of the northern part of th,s isIand.-Their edges are thick and swelled, their surface covered with a white slough, which gives them much the appearand of venereal sores. TREATMENT. The topical use of a solution of the muriate of mercury, and of the nitrate of silver ;-and the pilula hydrargyri internally. Ferguson, in Medical Journal. MERCURIAL ULCERS Are ulcerations in the mouth, produced by mercury; supern- al, and having a dark-coloured surface—They are accompanied with fet.d breath, with a taste in the mouth resembling that of •oppcr; the gums are separated from the teeth, and the tongue is covered with a glairy fluid. TREATMENT. The use of mercury should be discontinued, and the mouth frequently washed with emollient and slightly astringent gargles of .nfus.on of roses with alum, or decoction of oak-bark, while sulphur and alkalies are administered internally. TONGUE-TIED. 11 VC,y frc«I«cntly happens that the tongue of infants is tied, that 1S, that the fnerrum lingua; is so short as to prevent the184 RANULAr tongue from being protruded to, or beyond, the gums; in which case an operation becomes necessary for dividing the frainuu), by which it is confined. CUTTING THE TONGUE. In performing this, some little care and steadiness are required, or the sublingual veins and arteries may be wounded, and the infant die of haemorrhage. To avoid the danger, a small curved bistoury may be used iustead of scissars usually employed. The handle and blade, when open, need not exceed two inches in length; and the point should be a little curved, and the back made broad, whereby the point may be easily forced through the fi-aenum, in the most troublesome case, while the bad; of the instrument will sufficiently press down the vessels, so that they will be entirely out of the way of being injured. RANULA. An inflammatory or indolent tumor, situated under tile tongue, by the side of the ranular artery, on either side of the fraenum.—It is of greater or less size; sometimes acquiring such magnitude as to impede the motions of the tongue, obstruct the speech, and in children, who are equally subject to the affection as adults, it prevents the action of sucking.—Its contents are va- rious : generally a fluid resembling saliva; sometimes a glairy matter like that found in the cells of swelled joints; and now and then a fatty or carious substance.—Its cause is supposed to be an obstruction of the salivary duct*, arising from either cold, inflammation, calculary concretions, &c.—It is attended with little or no pain.—In some cases it long remains in an indolent185 CANCER OF THE TONGUE. state; in others, it soon acquires a considerable size, spontane- ously bursts, and leaves an ulcer extremely difficult to heal. TREATMENT. The usual applications to this disease are powerful astrin- gents ; as, the mixture of mel rosae with sulphuric acid, or a solution of alum ; and with these the tumor should be rubbed by means of a piece of lint attached to a probe or skewer. R. Mellis ros& 3x1V. ■ Acidi sulphurici diluti 3 ij. Misce. When these are ineffectual, incision or extirpation has usually been resorted to;—but when the cause of obstruction proves to be of a more permanent nature, the ulcer consequent upon the bursting, or cutting into the tumor, is often not to be healed by any of the customary astringent or escharotio applications, until its complete removal. VENEREAL ULCERS. Vide Syphilis. SCORBUTIC ULCERS. Vide Scorbutic Ulcer ; and medical works on Scurvy, CANCER OF THE TONGUE. Cancer of the tongue usually makes its appearance, with h small fissured tumor in its side, exactly similar in appearance to186 DIVISION Of THE PAROTID DUCT. the same disease when occurriug in the lip.—Its progress and termination are also similar. TREATMENT* . Arsenical caustics may first be employed; aud if no success 8P«»Lts from their u«c, excision of the cancerous part- -will be- come necessary. CALCULUS OF THE SALIVARY GLANDS. All the salivary glands are subject to the formation of calculi. —They produce much inflammation and pain, and are generally attended with spasms of the neighbouring muscles, especially, after eating. A curious case is related by Mr. Hewitt, surgeon at Hull, of a lady who discharged a calculus from the tonsil gland at ererj. period of pregnancy. TREATMENT. An incision over the seat of the calculus, in the gland or it* duct; after which it may be extracted by means of a tenaculum or crooked probe. DIVISION OF THE PAROTID DUCT. When the pawtld duct has been divided, either in consequence of accidentia injury, or in the perfornianoc of an operation, the saliva which it transmit i, iaataad of going into the cavity of the mouth, passes over the cheek, and thereby becomes an obstacle, to the healing of the wound.ENLARGEMENT OE THE TONS1ES. t&J TREATMENT. The following mode of treatment is recommended : When recent, adhesive plaster alone Will sometimes elect an union of the divided sides.-When of longer standing, and the inferior extremity of tile duct has become obliterated, an arti/i- ciM canal should be effected, by means of a perforation made dbliquely into the mouth, with a small curved trochar, begin* rting from the side of the wound contiguous to the divided ex- tremity of the ductj after which one end of a bit of catgut should be introduced at the artificial opening, and brought out at the mouth, while the other is passed a little way into the ex- tremity of the natural duct, and retained by adhesive plaster until the wound is healed; during which time the patient should Itte upon Spoon-meat, and make as little motion a* possible with his lips and jaws. Latin's System of Surgery. ; ENLARGEMENT OF THE TONSILS. Enlargements of the tonsils may be of two kinds. , Thc con,mon ahsccssoccurring.il! cynanche tonsillaris. 2. A ciironk swelling, generally the consequence of previous Inflammation of the gland in a scrofulous habit. . They often become so large as to impede both respiration and gegliititioii. TREATMENT. . For the first species consult medical writers en Cynanche Ton- sillaris. ' The secondtpecics.—Extirpation by ligature. If the base of (he tumor be smaller'than its apex, a single fixture is to be conveyed around it, by means of a forked probe,188 ENLARGEMENT OF THE UVULA* or an instrument invented for the purpose, with a ring at its ex- tremity.—When the form of the tonsil happens to be conical, the needle invented by Mr. Chesselden will become necessary.— A double ligature being put into the eye near its point, it is to be pushed through the centre of the base of the tumor; after which the ligature should be laid hold of by a hook, pulled for- wards, and divided. -The instrument is then to be withdrawn, and the ligatures so tied, that each part may surround one half of the tumor.—To render the operation more distinct, one half of the thread may be coloured, the other suffered to remain white.—When both tonsils are affected, in general one only need be extirpated.—Should it become necessary to extirpate both, the inflammatory symptoms ensuing from the first opera- tion should be allowed to subside, before an attempt is made t» remove the remaining one. ENLARGEMENT OF THE UVULA. An enlargement of the uvula sometimes takes place, and be* comes so considerable as to give great uneasiness, by impeding deglutition, irritating the throat, and thereby causing cough, retching, and vomiting. TREATMENT. When the enlargementiis considerable, strong astringent gar- gles ; as, a solution of alum in decoction of bark. If it continue to increase in size, and become troublesome, extirpation by ligature, applied , s ..bovc mentioned; or by exci- sion, performed by means of a curved bistoury, while the tumor is held by the tenaculum.189 DISEASES OF THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. CONTRACTION OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. SYMPTOMS. The disease usually commences with a slight difficulty of de- glutition, especially in swallowing solid food;-this continues to increase for some months, during which the patient is obliged to mince the solid food which he takes—At length the passage becomes so narrow, that not the smallest particle can pass; but after being for a short time detained at the contracted part, it is rejected with a peculiar hollow noise, and with the appearance of convuWon.-If preventive means are not taken, the stric- ture becomes more and more contracted, and at length so much so, as not even to admit the passage of fluids—Emaciation en- sues, and the patient is eventually starved.-Ulceration some- times takes place, attended with severe lancinating pain and hec- tic fever, CAUSES. A niorhid thickening of the mucous membrane of the eso- phagus, induced by a previous state of inflammation, or abra- sion, from whatever cause;-from the swal lowing of hot fluids, or from a wound inflicted by an extraneous body accidentally lodged in the part. Two cases are related by Dr. Helsham, in the Medical Jour- nal, of a contracted sthte of the a-s phagus from a protrusio . of the spine..SCIRRHUS 01? Till! PYLORUS. 190 TREATMENT. Dr. Munckley recommends the use of mercury, first in small doses, and prevented by purges from affecting the mouth ;—in the more advanced stage of the disease, so administered as to produce a gentle salivation. In the early stage, and before ulceration commences, Mr. Wathen advises the early introduction of a bougie into the ceso^ phagus, the size of which is to be gradually increased, and the patient at the same time directed to swallow pills, and at last boluses, of butter, boiled fat, &c. In the introduction of the ! bougie much care must be taken, that neither its size nor the force used be such as to induce inflammation in the stricture, lest it become so irritable as to do away the possibility of any lur- ther attempt, or destroy the patient by entirely obliterating the canal. This disease is treated successfully by Sir Everard Home by | the use of caustic, introduced in the same manner as in strict tures of the urethra. Vide Strictures of the Urethra. SCIRRHUS OF THE TYLOHUS. SYMPTOMS. Long-continu-d symptoms of dyspepsia;—sickness;—constant pain;—hard circumscribed tumor in the epigastric region, at first insensible, afterwards painful upon pressure; —rejection of food after it has remained in the stomach for the space of an hour— Dr. Rahn, of Zurich, where the disease is very frequent, de- scribes it as often un-.vttcnded by this symptom ; — obstinate cos- tiveness;—ulceration at length takes place, when the pain be- romM more intense, and is accompanied with a sense of beat.SCIRRHOUS CONTRACT-ION OF TIIK RECTUM. IQ\ referred to the throat;—the rejected food is mixed with blood,— hectic fever ensuesj-in some instances dm?Sy,_great emaci^ tion, - death. DIAGNOSIS. From dyspepsia—By the tumor in the region of the pylorus; ~bv the vomiting of blood, -by the peculiar, constant, and jfungent pain j-by the remarkable emaciation. TREATMENT. Be/ore ulceration ctowio,«,.-_Menmry, to excite a slight sa- nation;-blisters to the region of the part ^fomentations of hemlock,-conium administered internally;-the yolk of eggs; —the daily use of purges. In the ulcerated ^e.-Opium, administered both externally by friction to the abdomen, and internally for the purpose of al- laying pain; — conium. ULCERATION OF THE INTESTINES. This produces symptoms of dysentery, aud is treated by physi- cians, SCIRRHOUS CONTRACTION OF THE RECTUM. This is a disease similar in its nature to the contraction of the I wsophagus already described. SYMPTOMS. Sense of pain in the partj-obstinate costivenc^;-the f:rc«* •much contracted in size ,-the anus constantly in a moistened •tate, from the presence of a slimymucus ,-frequent tenesmus H- eonstant irritation and (mettiftM down the thighs;-if „lcwa-192 IMPERFORATE ANUS* tion takes place, the pain becomes peculiarly pungent and lanci- nating,—Wood or a sanious fluid is often discharged by stool,—^ great emaciation ensues,—hectic fever,—death. TREATMENT. In the early stage, mercury, to excite a slight salivation;—if the stricture be within reach, recourse must be had to the fre- quent introduction of a bougie of a large size into the rectum, or retaining it there constantly, by means of tapes connected with a bandage passed around the loins;—frequent dilatation by the use of the speculum;—the repeated use of copious emollient clysters; In the ulcerated state, the internal and topical use of hen- bane, aconite, hemlock, opium, nitre, sulphur, and mercury: R. Hydrargyri cum sulphure gr. xij. Nitratis potassa- gr. viij. Optkne in pulverem contere, ter in die sumendum. Imperforate anus. The anus is not unfrequently found imperforate at birth ; anil in some instances it is closed simply by a thin membrane, in whi»h case the meconium may be distinctly felt a day or two after birth, and in a manner seen shining through it. TREATMENT. A slight puncture with a lancet, and the subsequent intro- duction of a bougie, will in every case be proper. Uut more commonly the imperforate anus is a melancholy occurrence, and seldom admits of a remedy, the gut often terminating in a CMULCER IN THE LARYNX. J93 iiesac, so high up as not to be reached. In other Instances however, ,t may be relieved by an operation. This consists in first making a longitudinal incision in the natural situation of the anus (the operation being postponed as long as it safely can that the depending part of the bowel maybe distended, and pushed as low down as possible) j and afterwards passing up a small trochar, in the usual direction of the bowe!, until * shaH have entered the extremity of the gut, and the meco- tnum now from the canula. A piece of bougie is afterwards to be introduced daily, until the edges of the sore become sum- ciently callous to prevent a reunion taking place. DISEASES OF THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. ULCER IN THE LARYNX. SYMPTOMS. .R^able hoarSeness;-Perpetual irritation at the top of the wndp.pe, which nothing will relieve :-there is no pain nor soreness ,„ the lu„gs.-It commences in some who are otherwise , and often continues for years before it brin^ " to extrennt.es ;-the cough at length expe,s real pu!, ^Jf ra°rC —'-Action of the powers TVa Ir 'Patient bt"COmCS ,1CCtic' TTathen, Memoir, of the Medical Society.191 SUSPENDED ANIMATION'. CAUSES. It may be induced by inflammation or irritation, of whatcreT kind.—It has occurred as a consequence of the venereal poison. TREATMENT. Blisters, issues, and setons, in the neighbourhood of the part; —frequently inhaling the steam of hot water impregnated with conium ;—opium administered in the form of linctus.—If the disease arise from a syphilitic affection, mercury; — inhaling the steam of hot water impregnated with nitric acid; — decoction of the woods, &c. Vide Syphilis. SUSPENDED ANIMATION. No subject has given rise to a greater diversity of opiniori than the nature of the immediate cause of death produced by drown- ing, hanging, &c.—From the late discoveries in chemistry it ap- pears, that the cessation of the powers of life arises from the sus- pension of respiratien merely ; and thereby the interruption of that process, by which the blood is meliorated, or undergoes a certain change in its passage through the lungs. Vide Goodwin on the Connexion of Life with Respiration ;^-Curry, Observations on apparent Death, H>c.;— Coleman on suspended Animation. TREATMENT. The patient is as soon as possible to be conveyed into a warm room, and, if it can bp speedily procured, immersed in a warm bath;—immediate and copious evacuation of blood from the arm;—after which, extensive and continued friction -should be. practised with salt or warm flannelsstimulating fluids, assuspended Animation. i<)5 brandy, or spiritus ammonite aromaticus, diluted, are to be poured into the stomach,—and attempts to inllate the lungs are to be made, either by means of the tube passed into the larynx, as directed by the Humane Society, or by the common bellows introduced at the mouth, while this, together with the aperture into the nose, is securely closed.—Should these means prove un- successful, recourse must be had to the operation of— BROMCHOTOMV. The patient should be in the sitting posture, the body bent's little forwards,the head turned back. The first incision should be through the integuments, midway between the sternum and tlie cricoid cartilage ; the arteries of the thyroid gland will by this means be avoided.—The trachea being thus exposed, an opening must be made with the point of a lancet, of sufficient extent to admit of the introduction of the canula.—This is now to be passed into the artificial opening, and to be secured in its situation by means of a bandage, pre- viously connected with it, passed around the neck.—Its mouth should be covered with apiece of thin gauze, to prevent the ad- mission of extraneous matter; and when the causes which en- dangered suffocation have been removed, it is to be withdrawn', and the wound healed as an accidental wound of the part;196 DISEASES OF THE CHEST, VOMICA, OR ABSCESS OF THE LUNGS. SYMPTOMS. After preceding inflammation of the lungs, severe rigors,-* the pain, before diffused, now becoming confined to a circum- scribed spot;—great heat and restlessness;—sensation of heat in the throat.-cough,—quick pulse,—fiery red tongue,—debi- lity of the lower extremities.—The abscess thus formed, either opens into the bronchia, or into the cavity of the pleura.—In the first case the matter is expectorated, and thereby the symptoms ^re greatly relieved, but the cough and expectoration long remain, and the disease either terminates in phthisis, orthe cavity is gradually filled up by granulations.-Of the latter, empyema, or sudden suffocation, is the consequence. TREATMENT. Consult medical works on Pneumonia, and Phthhis. EMPYEMA. SYMPTOMS. Sudden cessation of the symptoms of vomica above mentioned, or of pneumonia, followed by vast oppression and sense, of weight in the chest;—an inability to lie on the affected side;— frequent and severe rigors ;-cold clammy sweats;-small op- pressed pulse-;-dark Hush upon the countenancej—m enlarge- 4COLLECTIONS OF BLOOD IN THE CHEST. 197 K 3 ment, or soft dedematons fulness, of the affected side ;-the un- dulationof a fluid sometimes becomes sensible ;-when the ef- fusion happens to be on the left side of the chest, the palpitation of the heart becomes lost or imperceptible. TREATMENT. The operation of Paracentesis of the Thorax. See page 198. -The strength is to be supported by a nourishing and not sti- mulating diet, by bark and acids, and placing the patient in an airy situation. COLLECTION'S OF BLOOD IN THE CHEST, CAUSES. Erosion of vessels in consequence of ulcerations of the lungs; —inflammatory congestion of the vessels of the lungs;—ex- ternal injury;-violent exertions of the organs of respiration;- immodcrate exercise in running, leaping, &c. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. When consequent upon a previous disease of the lungs, the symptoms so exactly resemble those produced by effusion of matter, that it will be difficult or impossible to distinguish the one disease from the other, until an opening has been made into the thorax, for the purpose of evacuating the collected fluid. _ In general the effusion of blood takes place at the height of the disease, and, if considerable, is instantly followed by syncope, or lense of suffocation.—The symptoms produced by tlfe effusion of matter arc more gradual, and less severe. When the consequence of active hremorrhiigy from (he vessels ^ the lungs, the nature of (be disease may in general be ascer- tained by a previous sense of beat in the chest, confined to a198 HYDROTHORAX. particular spot;—by the pulse having a jerk or salient feel;—by the countenance of the patient. If the above symptoms of empyema are the immediate effec, of external violence, or over-exertion, &c. no further .diagnostic mark is required. TREATMENT. The Paracentesis of the Thorax, below. COLLECTIONS OF AIR. DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. Sudden anxiety and difficulty of breathing, sometimes amount- ing to so high a degree as to threaten instant suffocation.—It is distinguished from the two preceding diseases by the absence cf fever,—by being unattended with rigors,—by the anxiety and opprestion, arising rather from a sense of constriction than from the dull weight above described,—by the emphysematous sw ell- ing of tne integuments, which in general follows an effusion of air into the chest. HYDROTHORAX. The symptoms and treatment of the disease are laid down by writers on medicine. The surgeon is occasionally consulted to evacuate the water. The operation is called PARACENTESIS OF THE THORAX. The patient being laid in a recumbent posture, with the shoulders rather elevated, and the body inclined to the affected side, an incision is to be made between the sixth and seventh rib, near to the inferior of the two, and almost midway between the spine and sternum; previously, however, to which, theK 4 PARACENTESIS OF THE ABDOMEN. 1& ^teguments should be so drawn up with the left hand, that, when returned to their original situation, they may form a valve over the opening afterwards made.-The pleura being exposed, a small aperture is to be cautiously made into the chest through which a silver canu.a of a proper size is to be introduced' and by this means the fluid gradually evacuated; not all at once but at several successive times, in the intervals between whjch theonficeofthe canula should be closed with a eompress of hnt or smal. cork, and secured in its situation by means of tapes or stnngs connected with a napkin and scapulary bandage After the collected matter, or other fluid, has been wholly evacuated, the canu.a is to be withdrawn, and the wound co- vered with the flap of integument previously formed.-Union by the first intention should be prevented, lest the fluid again accumulate, and a repetition of the operation become necessary -If coagulated blood be contained in the chest, it has been re-' commended to employ injections of tepid water. PARACENTESIS' OF THE ABDOMEN. The operation becomes necessary when the pressure of the water contained within the cavity of the peritoneum is so great as to impede the function of respiration. During the operation, the patient should be in a sitting pos- ture, with a vessel for the reception of the fluid placed between h» legs, and his body encircled with a long bandage or towel, the ends of which are to be held by two assistants.-These pre- parations being adjusted, and the patient having b*en directed to v01d his urine, or a catheter having been introduced for thePARACENTESIS OP THE ABDOMEN, 200 purpose of drawing it off, a small incision is to be made with a common lancet, about an inch below the umbilicus, after which a lancet-pointed trochar is to be pushed forwards, till, from no longer meeting with resistance to its passage, it is ascertained to be within the cavity of the abdomen;—the stilette is then to be withdrawn; and as the fluid is evacuated, the bandage, previously fixed around the abdomen, is to be drawn tighter and tighter, to prevent the effects of a sudden removal of the accustomed pressure. After the whole of the water has thus escaped, the wound is to be closed by adhesive plaster, and the body to be encircled with a roller of flannel, which should be suffered to remain for some days after the operation. It is recommended by Dr. Sims, in the Memoirs of the Lon- don Medical Society, to introduce the trochar at the umbilicus, \n this case the first incision will be unnecessary.201 k 5 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. INFLAMMATION. The breast is subject to common inflammation, which is called Mastodyxia. This, as well as its terminations, are to be treated as directed under the head of Inflammation. CANCER. SYMPTOMS. The disease makes its appearance with a small, hard, circum- scribed knot, distinctly moveable, beneath the integuments of the breast.—As it increases In size, it is attended with lancinat- ing pain, the veins of the skin become varicose, and adhesions between the integuments and the tumor often take place, creating the resemblance of cicatrices, arising from previous wound or ulceration.—The tumor now ceases to be moveable, becomes completely fixed in t he substance of the breast, and a hard line is often felt, extending into the axilla, where a small gland at the edge of the pectoral muscle is found enlarged.—At length a part of the tumor becomes soft, the presence of a fluid is Per- ceptible, ulceration takes place, and an excoriating ichorous mat- ter is discharged at the opening.—The pain now is excruciating, and of a pungent nature.—The ulcer puts on the appearance already described (vide Cancerous Ulcer), and often shoots forth a dark-coloured fetid fungus of considerable size.—A fatal hectio juts a period to the sufferings of the patient.CANCER OF THE BREAST. 202 CAUSES. The usual exciting causes are, injury of the part from external violence,—inflammation, however induced. PROGNOSIS. The circumstances which lead to a prediction of the favourable event of an operation are, unimpaired constitution of the patient; —the tumor still remaining moveable beneath the integuments; —the glands of the axilla as yet unaffected;—there being no cicatrices on the skin. TREATMENT. It is recommended by Mr. Fearon, upon the supposition of cancer being induced by a previous state of inflammation, to have immediate recourse to local bleeding, gentle laxatives, and the antiphlogistic regimen, upon the first appearance of a disease of the breast after a suppression of the menses. The use of conium, as a remedy for cancer, has been perhaps too highly extolled.—The extract is usually employed, begin- ning with two grains three times a day, and gradually increasing the dose until it arrive at ten grains or more, unless it disagree. Mercury, in the early stage of the disease, has in some instances been successful—Plummer's pill, or hydrargyrus oxy-muriatus united with decoctum sarsaparilla; compositum. Arsenic;—from the concurrent testimony of many respectable authorities, no doubt can be entertained of its having been, in some instances, successful. Vide Justamond on Cancer; Rush, in American Transactions ; Simm07is, Medical Journal.—Fow- ler's arsenical solution will be the most proper form for its admi- nistration ; the dose is from four to six drops three times a day. Dr. Crawford recommends the use of a saturated solution of avuriated barytes, from four to ten drops twice a day.CAKCER OF THE BREAST. £03 The internal use of the plant called galium aperine, or goose- grass, is proposed by Dr. Saunders, and some cases of apparent cancer have given way to its use. ■ The ferrum ammoniacale was successfully employed by Mr. Justamond . as also the external use of a lotion, in which the tinctura ferri muriatis, and spirit of wine, were the chief ingre- dients.-From three to ten grains of the ferrum ammoniacale are to be given twice or three times a day. After a short continuance of the use of internal remedies w.thout success, it will always be advisable to have recourse to the only effectual mode of cure; i. e. extirpation of the tumor. -For this purpose, corrosive plasters of different kinds have been sometimes employed with the desired effect. Mr. Justamond used a plaster formed from yellow orpiment, previously causing ulceration of the integuments by .the applica- tion of lunar caustic; and by Dr, Moseley, an adhesive plaster, strewed with corrosive sublimate, was employed with success id several cases. From the injurious effects of such applications upon the con- stitution, it will be prudent to avoid this mode of treatment; and, while the disease is yet in its early state, to perform the fol- lowing operation : THE OPERATION. "She necessary preparations being adjusted, a semicircular in- cision is to be made across the upper portion of the breast, above the nipple ; after which the integuments are to be cautiously dis- sected away from the diseased mamma, beginning at the upper side of the wound, and proceeding to detach the tumor until the - mammary artery has been divided ; when this should be secured by ligature, before any further progress is made in the operation. K (iCANCER OF THE BREAST. 204 —The integuments of the lower portion of the breast are now in like manner to be separated from their connexions, as is after- wards the gland itself from the subjacent pectoral muscle.— When the whole glandular part has been thus completely re- moved, the arteries are to be secured by ligature, the integu- ments brought together, and their divided edges retained in con- tact by means of the interrupted suture, or by straps of adhesive plaster; the part covered with a compress of soft linen or lint, and the dressings secured in their situation by the napkin and scapulary bandage: with which a moderate pressure should be made.—Should there be any cicatrices of the skin, that part of the integument in which they are seated should, during the ope- ration, be removed. If «a gland on the axilla has become en- larged, this, together with all the intermediate substance, ought to be extirpated. And as the arteries entering these glands are from large trunks near the heart, it is right to pass a double ligature through the mass and secure it, before they are divided, which will prevent the inconvenience and embarrassment to the operator, which their sudden retraction and consequent haemor- rhage would cause.205 DISEASES OF THE JOINTS, HYDARTHRUS. A dropsical accumulation within the capsular ligament of a , jointgenerally of the knee-joint. DIAGNOSIS. the hand placed on one side of the joint, while a slight per uss.on » made againsttfie oppos;tej wiJ] rccehe ^ «on nabr to that experienced, when mak.ng the same « the presene,ofadrops^fthea;rm:: Contained pressure upon one side will, by. depressing that — a considerable and obvious elevation of'the othe^ The fluad, ,„ passing from si()e tQ s.de under this^fbove its usual level.. CAUSES. The hydropic diathesis;_debi].ty) howeyer .n debility consequent upon low fevers —r)w.,,m —syphilis Ityers»—rhcumafasmj—scrofula ; TREATMENT. The repeated application of blisters, kept open by the use of unguentum lytt* ;__friction^d * * , ocaHy t0 the joIntj and Hkcwisc ndmiii. teied ^ appl, | to pou ,t, ln a continucd streamj from spout Qf a J k tie held at a considerable distance above the knee of the Erai^T "iSn,,iCnt aPPliCa,i°nS * the early **E* of wlnte swelling; which see at page 200.206 COLLECTIONS OF BLOOD IN THE JOINTS. GANGLION. Vide Tianors. COLLECTIONS OF BLOOD. DIAGNOSIS. " A collection of blood is known to have taken place within the joint, by the swelling which is produced coming on sud- denly, and being the immediate consequence of an injury which the part has sustained ; and by the colour of the tumor, which, when the capsular ligament has been broken, is dark and livid. CAUSE. Injury done to the part from external violence. TREATMENT. The means above recommended for procuring absorption are first to be employed; and if these prove ineffectual, recourse must be had to an operation for evacuating the effused fluid. The best mode of performing this is as followsThe in- teguments are first'to be tightly drawn up above the part chosen for the incision, so that, after the evacuation of the fluid, they may, upon being let down, form a valve, and effectually prevent the admission of air, while a small opening is cautiously made through the capsular ligament—The blood being evacuated, ad-, hesive straps are to be applied to procure union by the first in- tention ; and the patient should be put upon a strict ant.phlo- gistic regimen, to obviafe the effects of the inflammation winch *> geaeralry sutceeds openings info J***WHITE SWELLING. 20?> COLLECTIONS OF MATTER. DIAGNOSIS. Tumors of joints, formed by collections of matter « , gunned from the two former diseases bv h , ^ * —P* and Nation, o^^f^ quence.-The matter is sometimes externa, 0 1 C°nSe- %ament; sometimes it is contained ^t^*^ ■s amore frequent sequel of rheumatic inflammation » 7 ^ generally supposed. 'nammation than has been TREATMENT. A simple incision, if the fluid be above the r operation before described, if beneath it! WHITE SWELLING. SYMPTOMS. In the knee-joint.-Vvn in the inside of the oaWIn , • , ' often deep seated in the joint, unattended w ' • " or .nflammation, and is not exasperated b^2 I^ times ,t comes on gradually; at others if h ^ lent, and is confined to a LZ TT Vi°- %ament of ^jJ^X^^"^ gradually increases in size ,„d th „ 'Considerable, -a fluctuation is perce^bl ,n ^ ^ ^ largementof one *«» is - en-. length takes place tin ""^-Ulceration at s wises place, though sometimes not until „» -nths have expired, and matter is discbald 1st f "'7 it several ,|:«\» '"wiargea j most frequently * 83 **ttB* *e principa, of which is at then. To preTent suppuration in the early stage., Judications. * OQ8 WHITE SWELLING. lower part of the joint.—A hectic fever arises, which often de- stroys the patlenf, if the sense of irritation be not removed by an operation.—Either this or anchylosis will be the termination of- the disease, after suppuration has taken place. CAUSES. Ecmote.—Scrofula. Exciting.—Injury of any fclfid- or an attack of inflammation. TREATMENT. 1. To remove those circumstances of con- stitution which predispose to the disease. in. "When suppuration has taken place, to obviate its fatal effects. Intcfnally. The means recommended for the cure of scrofula in medical ■works. Locally. A the early ^.-The application of leeches, fomentations, m poultices cataplasm of the quercus marinus. See Scrofu- lous Ulcer. Repeated blisters, or blisters kept open by the application o. the ccratum lyttae, or sabina?. Caustic issues have been attended with great benefit. Refrigerant and astringent lotions ; of the muriate ofammon.8, «f alum, of sulphate of zinc. Trie application of stimulants, to excite superficial irritation's ns mercurial friction, the linimentum ammonias carbonatis. Mr. Russel. recommends a pane made of Sum amraoniacuwWHITE SWELLING, 209 amlacetumscilke; or a liniment of oleum terebinths, with hog's lard. E.MPLASTRUM AMMONIAC!. R. Ammoniaci gummi-resinte Jij. Aceti scillae quantum suffkit. Theammoniacum is to be reduced to a fine powder, and enough ruiegar of squills to be added to form it, by beating in a marble orWedgewood mortar, into a consistency to be easily sprcad on leather. This was often used with success by the late Mr. Cruickshank, by whom it was first invented. The ammoniacal plaster with hemlock is also beneficial, EMPLASTRUM AMMONIACI CUM CONIO. R. Ammoniaci guiami-resinae Jiij. Extracti conii jij. Liquoris plumbi acetatis jj. The ammoniacum is to be dissolved in a sufficient quantity of vinegar of squill, after which the remaining ingredients are to be added, and the whole boiled slowly to the consistence of a plaster. Lime, formed into a cataplasm with meal and lard. Bath I Infirmary. The volatile plaster of Dr. Kirkland: R. Saponis Jij. Emplastri Iithargyri Jfs. Ammonia? muriatis 3j. The two former to be melted together, and, when nearly cold, Tie murias ammonia-, in fine powder, to be stirred in.210 WHITE SWELLING. • The Pharmacopoeia C'hirurgica of Mr. Wilson orders it thus : EMI'LASTRUM AMMONIA M URIAHS. R. Ammoniae muriatis Ji's. Saponis jj. Emplastri plumbi Jij. The efficacy of these depends on the ammonia which is dis- engaged from the muriate of ammonia by the alkali of the soap, combining with the muriatic acid. It should therefore be applied immediately after it is formed, and renewed every twenty-four hours. Friction with brine. An ointment of emetic tartar. R. Antimonii tartarisati 3j. Unguenti adipis suillre These are to be rubbed well together, so as to form a smooth liniment, of which one drachm or more is to be rubbed on ♦he knee for ten minutes. Oxygen gas;—a successful case related by Dr. Beddoes. hi the ulcerated state.—Nutritive diet;—by tonics, and by all the meaus adapted to the treatment of hectic fever from other causes; and if these prove ineffectual, recourse must be had to an operation for the removal of the limb.211 CARTILAGINOUS AND FUNGOUS SUBSTANCES WITHIN THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENTS. Small bodies arc not ^frequently formed beneath the capsular hgunenta of joints, which impede their motion, and often occa, sion much pain.—They are of two kinds. 1. Hard and cartilaginous, and loose in ti« cavity of the joint. 2. Soft, and similar to bursa; mucoie, and generally attach- ed to the cartilages. They vary in size, being sometimes as large as horse-beans, and at others there are several contained in the same joint. The first species occasion sudden and violent attach of pain, upon any motion of the limb, or upon change of posture, which go off as suddenly upon a repetition of the same cause that in- duced them.—The pain, arising from the second is constant, but less acutei CAUSES. Mr. Hunter attributed the origin of these substances to a por- tion of blood, effused by some injury which the joint might have sustained, and becoming organized by the action of contiguous parts. Mr. Russel, on Diseases of the Joints, supposes them to arise from an inspissation of synovia. TREATMENT. Many cases are related by Mr. Hey, i„ his Observations in Sundry, which were successfully treated hy the application of bandages, and by the constant use of a tight-laced knee-cap. Should this mode prove ineffectual, the body, if loose, may be amoved by an operation. This is directed by Sir Everard Home, *e Transactions of the Society for the Improvement of Mediae*212 THE HIP-JOINT DISEASE. »nd Surgery, to be performed in the knee ia the following man- ner : OPEUATION. The limb being extended, and in an horizontal position, the loose cartilages are to be pushed to the upper and inner side of the joint, so that the vastus interims muscle only may be divid- ed , and being secured in that situation, the sliin of the part where the incision is to be made should be so drawn up, that the wound in the parts underneath may not afterwards correspond v, ith that through the integuments.—The loose body is now to be exposed, by cutting immediately upon it, and attempts are. to be made to press it through the opening;-should these be unsuc- cessful, a tenaculum, or the broad end of an eyed probe, may be passed under it, and by this means it may be lifted out. —The wound should be carefully healed by the first intention; and, to prevent inflammation, the limb should be kept in the extended position, and the patient put upon the antiphlogistic, regimen,. THE HIP-JOINT DISEASE. SYMPTOMS. A degree of lameness scarcely visible, often ascribed to indo- lence, or to the indulgence of awkward habits;—after the expi- ration of a shorter or longer time, the leg and thigh of the af- fected side appear lessened in circumference, and the limb is evidently elongated; so that in standing erect, while the sound, limb is slowly extended, the diseased is separated from the body, or the knee is bent to a considerable angle.—The nates, upon inspection, appear flattened}—pain in the region of the part, in same cases obtuse and deep-seated, in others more acute; painTHE Hlr-JOINT DISEASE. 213 ta the knee, often so excruciating as to occasion the most „0_ ™^:™™>-*' ***** of walking increases; is partL larl, obvious in the morning, becomes less so as the day ad- vances, but returns again in an increased degree towards night.- Ipon any qu,k exertion, the patient is apt to nM.-In a Lm- bent posture, the diseased thigh is bent forward, and every at- tempt to alter ,ts position is attended with great pain.-The joint becomes tender to the touch, and the lymphatic glands at the groin are enlarged,-the lameness becomes more and more ob- v.ous;-the pain more sensible, and the limb is considerably redu- ced in size;—a slow hrrHr w..i- ■„ f , ULCtlc '-lLr anses> with great prostration or strength. At length the limb, before elongated, shortens; a circum- stance which announces an ensuing suPPuration.-The tender- ness and sweHing increase, the patient is incapable of support- ^himself, unless by crutcheS.-T,le abscess at length breaks, and discharges the curdly matter peculiar to scrofula.-The parent now grows languid, the symptoms of hectic fever become *«■ violent, he loses bis appetite, is gradually emadatedj colliquative discharges come on, and not unfrequently the drs- ase terminates fatally.-When a recovery takes place after the disease has so far advanced, it is effected by an anchylosis of the joint „ CAUSE scrofula. DIAGNOSIS. 11k-pathognomonic symptoms are, the oain in the hip—the e ongat.on and subsequent shortening of the limb;-the difficulty "j tuning the leg inwards, when in a recumbent posture :-the ""—I abearance of the nates ;_tht excruciating pain in the Kgec-ioitot.fSOAS ABSCESS. TREATMENT. Mr Ford directs the following: Topical bleedmg, where there is much pain and inflammation! -the warm bath--blisters ;-a caustic issue inserted in the hol- low behind the great trochanter; it should be about an inch m length, and half an inch in breadth, and made by rubb.ng on the caustic until the skin change from its natural colour to a brownish hue. Vide Ford on the Disease, of the Hip-Joint. The embrocatio ammonias acetatis, mixed with linseed meal, and applied warm in the form of a poultice, is frequently used by some surgeons. Great attention should be paid to the state of the constitution, as in all other diseases arising from the same source. PSOAS ABSCESS. SYMPTOMS. Previous to the appearance of any other symptom the patient ^H. ,pnse of weakness across the loins, i-«itr feels an unaccountable sense ui «v ! om^ied by an obtuse, yet distressing pain; and often has ; oTr for reL, to the usual remedies recommended for lum , recourse diminishes, and appears to , 2L -* tiic toursc °f the antcr,or ; r 7 I : This change is followed by an enlargement o he gland, , TZ groin, and not unfre.p.ently by a total loss of the use of e 1 w!r e*Unitie8.-At length a soft fluctuating tumor „ - : o^panied by pain or any decolouration of themtegun u^s perceived immediately beneath Pouparfs hgament, or by the u n anus, und.r the glutei muscles, «* incases until itPSOAS ASSCESS. gjH las attained a lai <-e si?,, „f, ^ the thigh, ;d ;s t" ;xtending a co»^ -y n-u,s are no ake ' W»-.-If preventive not taken, ulcerat.on ensues, a severe hecfir f anses, and a fata, tennination is put to the ^ ^ «™ CAUSES. DIAGNOSIS. TREATMENT. ,B„t, ... , ™S Pte™"% torn M,e i„,csu. i t216 DISLOCATIONS. Dislocation is the secession of a bone of a moveable articula- tion from its natural cavity. CAUSE. Accidental violence. GENERAL TREATMENT. I. To reduce the protruded bone to its ori- ginal place. Judications. { n. To retain it in that situation. in. To obviate any attendant or consequent morbid symptom. THE LOWER JAW. This luxation can only take place in one direction, i. e. for- wards and downwards. DIAGNOSIS. When both sides are luxated, the month is widely opened, the chin thrown forwards towards the breast, and the speech is inar- ticulate.—When a dislocation has happened on one side only, the mouth is d.storted, and widest on the sound angle of the jaw, which is drawn a little towards the contrary side, and a small hollow may be percened behind the displaced condyle. TREATMENT. TUc thumbs of the operator, secured with a covering of linen cj leather, are to be introduced into the mouth, and pushed as fa.DISLOCATION OF THE HEAD. 217 as possible between the jaws, while the fingers should at the same time be applied to each angle of the outside. Attempts must now be made to move the bone from its situa- tion, by bringing it first a little forwards, and then pressing it forcibly downwards; when it will generally slip into its place without further trouble. The patient should for some time avoid much speaking, or the deglutition of hard substances. THE HEAD. DIAGNOSIS. The head, when luxated, generally falls forward on the breast. —There is an instant deprivation of sense and motion; and if a refaction be not speedily effected, death must ensue. TREATMENT. The head should gradually be drawn up, whilst the shoulders are pressed downwards by an assistant, until the bones are brought into their place; when the patient, if the injury has not been fatal, gradually recovers his senses. The head should long be retained in an elevated position by ^instruments contrived for that purpose; and should symptoms of fever or irritation come on after the accident, it wiir-be neces- sary to bleed, and use other appropriate means for its reduction,218 DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. THE SPINE. DIAGNOSIS. The symptoms vary as the luxation happens to be high up, or at the inferior part of the vertebral column.—There is a total paralysis of all the parts beneath the place where the accident has happened;—there is either a suppression of mine and faxes, or they are discharged involuntarily. TREATMENT. ' The attempts for reduction will vary with the direction of the dislocation.—It is recommended to lay the patient on his face over a cylindrical body of a proper size, and in this position to endea- vour to reduce the bones to their proper situation, by slowly bending the body forwards or to one side. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle may be dislocated either at its junction with the scapula or with the sternum. DIAGNOSIS, It is discerned by the unnatural tumor of the part;—by the shoulder falling forwards;—by the want of mobility, and by tricing the bone along its extent. TREATMENT. The arms and shoulders of the patient arc to be firmly drawn backwards, by an assistant, whilst the operator replaces the protruded end of the bone;—the stellate bandage (vide Fracture of the Clavicle) is now to be applied, and tbc arm supported by a sling.DISLOCATION OF THE HUMERUS. 219 ::at THE HUMERUS. The humerus may be dislocated in three different directions s i. Downwards into the axilla, ii. Forwards under the clavicle, in. Backwards on the scapula. DIAGNOSIS. In a dislocation of the os humeri, the usual rounded ap- pearance of the shoulder is lost, and the lower edge of the pec- toral muscle is drawn into a straight lines-there is an inability to ra1Se the arm, and when forcibly raised, an angle is pereep- tiMn in the middle, having the appearance of a fracture at th part—Upon feeling for the head of the bone, an unusual vac. ity is perceived under the acromion of the scapula. Downwards—The arm of that side is longer than the other, and hangs close to the body;-the head of the humerus may be felt in the armpit. Forwards—The arm is separated from the body in an angle of several degrc-;-it is considerably shorter, and, upon rotary motion, the head of the hone is felt Lying under the middle of the clavicle. Backwards—The tumor is alone a sufficient diagnostic. TREATMENT. • A bandage, or strong belt, is to be passed under the axilla of the injured side, and carried over the opposite shoulder;-by Uiis menus, when extension is made, the scapula will be prevented from moving—A second belt is to be applied just nbove the t. >- £20 DISLOCATION OF T*HE JIADIUS AND ULKA. elbow of the dislocated arm.—By the letter of these a gradual extension must now be made, in a direction obliquely downwards and outwards; the body being at the same time kept irnmovc- ably fixed, by assistants drawing the former belt in an opposite direction.—After this extension has been kept up for a short time, duriDg which it should be gradually increased in force, the operator is with one hand to draw or push back the scapula, with the other to direct the bone into its cavity. When the luxation has been of long standing, or in cases where the head of the bone is protruded fur forwards under the pectoral muscle, extension can seldom be made, by the hands of assistants, with sufficient force.—In such cases it will be neces- sary to employ the pullies invented for this purpose.—Reduction may also be facilitated by bleeding,—the warm bath,—by the use of opium,—and by the administration of a tobacco clyster. THE RADIUS AND ULNA. The radius, with 1 he ulna, maybe dislocated either upwards and backwards, or partially inwards and outwards.—The radius may be dislocated forwards. DIAGNOSIS. When the dislocation is upwards and backwards, the fore-arm is shortened, the olecranon of the ulna projects, and is higher than usual; the extremity of the humerus cannot be felt in the bend of the elbow. When inward, the sight alone will be sufficient to ascertain the displacement of the bone. When the radius is dislocated alone, it is generally thrown forwards on the external condyle of the humerus,—In this caseDISLOCATION OF THE WRIST. 221 the rotary motion of the arm is destroyed;—the fore-arm is so bent as to form a considerable angle with the os humeri;—and the patient is incapable of extending it. TREATMENT. Extension is to be made by assistants upwards by the humerus, and in a contrary direction downwards by the fore-arm; while the operator guides the protruded bone into its cavity.—Reduc- tion is sometimes more easily effected by making the knee the fulcrum of a lever, by which (in the dislocation backwards) the eoronoid process of the ulna may be lifted out of the cavity formed for receiving the olecranon. When the dislocation happens to be either inwards or outwards, simple extension in the directions above mentioned, with pressure of the extremity of the bone, will in general alone be sufficient. THE WRIST, The wrist may be dislocated cither inwards, outwards, or backwards. DIAGNOSIS. The sight alone is sufficient to ascertain the nature of the injury.—In the dislocation backwards, where there is generally much swelling and tension, by tracing the bones of the fore-arm, the unusual projection formed by the carpus may readily be dis- covered. TREATMENT. As the preceding dislocation. I. 3222 DISLOCATION OV THE HI¥: THE HIP. The os fernoris may be dislocated in four different directions. I. Downwards into the foramen ovale. In this case the leg is lengthened by an inch and an half;—the knees are forcibly separated from each other j—the foot is turned outwards ;—a vacancy is perceived in the parts which the head of the bone and the great trochanter usually occupy. TREATMENT. A strong belt or roller must be passed round the pelvis, and the ends carried over the hip of the sound side, where they are either to be firmly held by assistants, or confined to some im- moveable body.—A second roller is now to be passed between the thighs, and its extremities carried in a direction contraiy to he first applied ; i. e. over the dislocated hip—By the latter of these, extension is then to be made in a direction upwards and outwards; the former meanwhile being prevented from altering its position. The operator is at the same time to endeavour to elevate the head of the bone over the projecting acetabulum, by means of a sling passed over his own shoulder, and under the thigh of the patient.—Reduction will be effected with great faci- lity, if the knee be bent to a right angle with the body, and pushed inwards towards the opposite leg. ' n, Forwards on the pubes. DIAGNOSIS. The head of the bone is distinctly felt in the groin, while the projection of the hip, and the usual fulness surrounding it, are lost,—The foot is considerably turned outwards; but the length of the leg is not altered.DISLOCATION OP THE HIP. 223 TREATMENT Differs from that recommended for the preceding, only in the .extension being required to be made in a direction directly out- wards i whilst the knee is elevated to a right angle with the body, in. Upwards and backwards an the ileum. DIAGNOSIS. The leg is considerably shortened, as may be easily discovered by comparing it with that of the sound sidej-thc foot is turned much inwards;—the limb will not admit of rotary motion, and the great trochanter, on that side, is felt considerably higher than on the opposite. TREATMENT. The belt must be passed around the pelvis, and secured, as directed for the first dislocation.—A second is to encircle the dislocated thigh, immediately above the knee, and with this ex- tension is to be made obliquely downwards, and towards the other leg. IV. Downwards and backwards into the foramen ischii, DIAGNOSIS. The leg is lengthened only in a slight and imperceptible de- gree;—the projection of the trochanter is lost,—the foot is turn- ed greatly inwards. TREATMENT. The body being secured in the usual manner, the thigh is to be drawn upwards towards the abdomen, and depressed against the other leg, when extension is to be made outwards and rather upwards, by means of a roller passed around the thigh above the knee, as before directed; but the utmost perseverance and skill will often be insufficient to effect reduction when the hip has been thus dislocated, l 4DISLOCATION OF THE PATELLA. 224) THE PATELLA. The patella may be luxated either sideways or upwards; in which latter case, the ligament with which it is connected is torn through, and the bone is drawn up several inches among the muscles of the thigh.—The nature of the case can be distinctly ascertained, both by the sight and by manual examination. TREATMENT. In the dislocation sideways, the limb must be firmly extended ; ■when pressure being made upon the protruding edge, either directly inwards, or rather downwards, it immediately regains its former situation. The dislocation upwards is to be treated precisely as a trans- Terse fracture of the bone; which see. THE TIBIA;. The tibia may be dislocated partially, either inwards, outwards, or backwards. DIAGNOSIS. The situation of the dislocated bone is obvious to the sight. TREATMENT. Extension is to be made upwards by the femur, and down- wards by the fore-leg, while the bones arc replaced by pressure with the hand.DISLOCATION OP THE ANCLE. 225 THE ANCLE. A dislocation of this joint may take place either inwards, out- wards, or forwards. DIAGNOSIS. The two former cases may be ascertained by the inclination of the foot, and by the unnatural protuberance on one side, and deficiency on the other. When the tibia is forced forwards on the tarsus, the foot is considerably shortened j-there is a great and unusual projection of the heel. TREATMENT. Reduction is to be effected by extension, made in the same manner as in a dislocation of the knee. «. S226 DISEASES OF BONES. INFLAMMATION. SYMPTOMS. A peculiarly obtuse, deep-seated, aching pain, extremely dis- tressing to the patient, and soon affecting the health to so re- markable a degree as to induce a speedy emaciation of the body. —The part at length swells, and a tumor forms, possessing great hardness;—the skin becomes red and extremely sensible; —there is an increase of heat, with other symptoms of inflam- mation. CAUSES. All the common causes exciting inflammation, more especially external injury; —syphilis; —scrofula. TREATMENT. If arising from common causes simply, as from a blow, &c. topical bleeding by leeches;—the application of blisters; — fomentations; —pain allayed by opium;—after pain and red- ness have subsided, mercurial friction; hydrargyria muriatus internally. If from syphilis, the means laid down under that disease. If from scrofula, evacuations are to be avoided ;—blisters kept open by the use of the ceratum lytt;e;—the external use of mer- cury;—the emplastrum ajimioniaci, page 200. Vide JVhitt Swelling.MORTIFICATION OF THE BONES. 227 ABSCESS. SYMPTOMS. The symptoms of inflammation before enumerator];—the pre- ceding pain has usually been exceedingly severe and constant, and attended with great constitutional irritation, <,u!ck hard pulse, white tongue;—the integuments become swelled and inflamed, and have an emphysematous feel;—the patient is attacked with severe rigors;-an undulation becomes perceptible within the tumor;—ulceration takes place, and a thin acrid matter is dis- charged ; when, by an examination with a probe, a cavity can be traced leading into the centre of the bone.—The progress of the formation of matter is sometimes extremely slow, at others the tumor soon becomes fluctuating. TREATMENT. After attempts have been made in vain to produce an absorp- tion of the fluid by the means before recommended for the treat- ment of inflammation, it has been found most successful to lay the whole open by a free incision; then to remove part of the superficial covering of bone by the common trephine, and after- wards to make use of stimulant and astringent injections, as tinctura myrrhtc, to correct the fetor of the discharge, and to promote the formation of granulations. MORTIFICATION. Exfoliation. Sj>ccies, Necrosis. { I. Of exfoliation. Exfoliation is the casting off of ft portion of the external part of a bone which has lost its life.—The process of separation is h C228 MORTIFICATION OF THE BONES. the same as among soft parts;—ulceration takes place, granula- tions form between the dead and living bone, and the useless portion thus becomes detached and forced away. CAUSE. It is most frequently the consequence of a leparation of the periosteum by whatever means, or of external injury. TREATMENT. The process of exfoliation of the bone is to be expedited by the application of stimulants i— Tincture of myrrh. The acetic acid is used in the Gloucester Infirmary. A very diluted solution of nitric acid in <3uy%- Hospital. The alkohol caryophyllatum of the Pharmacopoeia Chirurgica:— R. Spiritus rcctificati 3 ij. Olei caryophylli 3j. Misce. Perforation of the bone has been practised with success;—and also the application of the actual cautery to the dead portion. 11. Necrosis Is the separation of an internal portion of a bone.—The sur- rounding parts become much enlarged and thickened;—inflam- mation at length takes place upon the external surface;—ulcera- tion ensues; many holes are formed, and upon examination the dead portion is found detached and lying loose within the cavity formed by the absorption of the contiguous bony structure. CAUSE. Preceding inflammation, or accident; destroying the life of the cancelli. TREATMENT. After ulceration lias taken place, the same means must beCARIES OF THE SPINE. 229 employed to promote a separation of the diseased bone, as are beforerecommended: a very weak solution of nitric acid, or dHute -egar injected, by means of a syringe, through the openings oil 7 ttCeratiVe ThCSe « * so dilute as not to create pain. When a portion of bone can be felt completely ,oose, the most -P edyand effectual mode of proceeding is, to make a perforation With the trephine, and extract it with the forceps. CARIES OF THE SPINE. SYMPTOMS. Languor and listlessness ;-fatigue upon slight exertion — aversion to motion ;-the patient is observed frequently to trip and stumble without any apparent cause, and whenever attempts are made to move briskly, the legs involuntari.y cross each other, and he ,s thrown down;-in an erect posture the knees often g.ve way and bend forward,-an obtuse distressing pain is felt " baCk' with ^ weakness in the loins 5 and, upon in- spection of the spinous process of the vertebra-, one or more is found to project beyond the rest.-Soon after this the extremities lose much of their natural sensibility, and at length become qu.te useless, although often not until the expiration of a very considerable time from the fust appearance of the disease. CAUSE. Scrofula;—accidental injury done to the spine. DIAGNOSIS. ft*C«Wi^ra,F;,_,ncommon nervoua pa]sythere .s peculiar flabby fed of the paralyzed parts; the joints are secm- •ngly loose, and have a preternatural mobility; there is an inca- J230 EXOSTOSIS. pability of resistance, which allows the limb to he twisted in any direction. In the present disease the parts are more tense to the feel; the joints, particularly the ancles, possess considerable rigidity, by which the feet are often pointed downwards;—added to these, the affection of the loins sufficiently points out the na- ture of the disease. TREATMENT. A caustic issue, such as directed for the disease of the hip, to he made on each side of the protuberant portion of the spine, and suffered to remain open until the patient recover the use of his limbs; at the same time employing- tonics, and other remedies recommended for the cure of scrofula, and occasionally sprinkling the sore with a small quantity of finely powdered blistering-fly. EXOSTOSIS Is a morbid growth of bone, forming a circumscribed tumor of great hardness; which sometimes acquires an immense size; it is most frequently met with upon cylindrical bones:-it is sometimes firmly osseous; at. others of a cretaceous consistence, and often partly cartilaginous. CAUSE. A diseased actionof the bone from an uncertain cause. TREATMENT. If formed upon a part little essential to life, and when of no very considerable size, it may be removed with perfect safety.— In performing the operation, the integuments should be saved, that they may afterwards be united by the first intention; and the tumor, if perfectly osseous, requires the use of a small saw for its removal.FRACTURE, 231 RACHITIS. Vide medical works on this diease. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. This disease is peculiar to the adult period.-The bones in- lenaibly become soft, until, being incapable of withstanding the action of the muscles, they are bent in various forms; precisely as in rachitis. 1 Sometimes a peculiar friability takes place, which renders them susceptible of fracture from the slightest causes. CAUSE. The cause inducing this disease is unknown ;-it consists in an absorpt.on of the earthy parts of bone. TREATMENT. *utnt,vealiment;-tonics, and other means of invigorating the system, recommended for the cure of scrofula—The disease -hen once established, generally, in spite of mediea. assistance,' goes on to the destruction of the patient. FRACTURE Is a division of bone into two or more fragments; generally occasioned by external violence. 7 n. Simple;-where the bone has been divided, and the integuments remain unimpaired. * 2. Compound j-where there is a corresponding wound in the soft parts, by wind, the frac- tured extremity of the bone becomes exposed,FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW. 232 CAUSES. Predisposing.—Certain diseases of the bone; as abscess, fria- bility, or mollifies. Exciting.—External violence. TREATMENT. i. To reduce the displaced parts to their ori- ginal situation. Indications. \ n. To retain them in that state. in. To obviate any attendant or consequent morbid symptoms. BONES OF THE NOSE. Fractures of the bones of the nose, though productive of little inconvenience at the time, are not unfrequently followed by un- pleasant consequences; as.ozcena, polypus, &c. TREATMENT. The fractured portion may be easily replaced by means of a common spatula, or other instrument, introduced by the nostril, and in general it will retain its situation without any further assistance. LOWER JAW. DIAGNOSIS. The nature of the injury is obvious to the sight TREATMENT. The parts being accurately replaced and kept, firm by an assistant, a th.ck compress of lint should be placed over the .cat of the fracture, and a bandage applied, by means of whichFRACTURE Of THE CiAVICiE. 233 the jaw maybe firmly held upward, and backwards ;_for this purpose the most effectua, is a ^ or pursc> fo ^ ^ ^ th I1' Vapes'or eui,s> attach£d to it; thc *» ^ o vhu-h are to be tied over the parietal bone, the two superior o\er;the occiput. ' During the cure the patieut should be kept .juiet, and fed upon spoon-meat, 1 ' m CLAVICLE. i DIAGNOSIS* The shoulder is usually drawn forwardj ^ bo w lch ls attached to the sternum, projects over the o«*e ^ured extremity, and may be distinctly felt by tracing the usual, course of the clavicle with the finger. TREATMENT. The arms and shoulders of the patient are to be firmIy drnwn Wards by an assistant; when the fractured extremities of the bones .mmediate.y come in apposition.-The parts are now to be covered with an adhesive plaster, and a bandage is to be -apphed to retain them in their reduced situation,-that ca.led I the stellate „ usually employed; it is a single-headed roller of ■moderate breadth, and is applied by making it to pass under he axdl, of one side, and over the shoulder of the opposite, d.cnb.ng on the back the figure s,-It shou.d be drawn with on u erab e t,shtne,s, and the arm should afterwards be sup- ported with a sling. 1234 FRACTURE OF THE RIBS. RIBS. DIAGNOSIS. The characteristic marks of a fracture of the ribs are, the crepitus or grating of the bones, which may be distinctly felt and heard upon the patient coughing, or during a deep inspira- tion;-the pain, which in inspiration is referred to a particular spot. TREATMENT. An adhesive plaster, or the ceratum saponis of the London Pharmacopoeia, should be applied over the part, and the body should then be tightly encircled with abroad bandage. Should the extremity of the fractured rib puncture the lungs, an effusion of air into the cellular membrane will take place; and sometimes will extend to the scalp, the eyes, and down- wards, along the abdomen, to the lower extremities—In such cases small scarifications with the point of a lancet are required •, and if there be symptoms of fever, or inflammation, bleeding and the antiphlogistic regimen. SCAPULA. I, Of the cervix. diagnosis. Fractures of the scapula most frequently happen at its cervix; and in this situation it has all the characteristics of a dislocation of the shoulder, for which it is not unfiequently mistaken.- I The shoulder is sunk, and a hollow is perceived under the pro- L cessus acromion.-It is distinguished by rotating the arm w.th one hand, at the same time applying the other to the ueck of the JFRACTURE OP THE HUMERUS. 235 scapula, when both bones will partake of the rotary motion, and tfeaerally a crepitus may be perceived. . TREATMENT. The same treatment is required as for a fracture of the clavicle. II. Of the acromion process. DIAGNOSIS. The arm is generally much drawn forwards; but the bone be- •ng so superficial, the place of the fracture is easily distinguished. TREATMENT. The shoulder must be firmly bound as above directed, and the fore-arm particularly well supported by a sling. HUMERUS. DIAGNOSIS. The head of the bone being grasped with one hand, and the elbow with the other, upon rotating the arm, no motion will be communicated from the lower to the upper portion, and at the same time a crepitus will be distinguishable. TREATMENT. In order to bring the fractured extremities of the bone in appo- sition, extension Must be made in contrary directions; at the same time relaxing the muscles by bending the elbow joint— The arm is then to be encircled with a piece of soft flannel, and three splints should be applied, the outer of which should be of sufficient length to reach from the shoulder to the elbow—After which the whole i, to be secured by a flannel or linen roller, applied sufficiently tight to support the parts in the situation in23f> FHACTURE OF THE OS FEMOiUij. former are turned considerably outwards;—in the latter, m which they have been placed.—See P.'ate VI. Fig. 1.—The fore- aim is to be supported with a sling;—confinement is not in general necessary. RADIUS AND ULNA. DIAGNOSIS. The existence of ft fracture of these bones may be ascertained in tliu same manner as directed for discovering a fracture of the humerus; or by tracing the course of the bones with the finger along their inferior surface. TREATMENT. The same treatment is also required as in a fracture of the: humerus.—The splints should be laid, one on the inside, the: other on the outside of the arm; so that both bones may be at-. once effectually compressed;—that on the inside should be long, enough to reach the palm of the hand, by which means thet .]•. wrist will be kept steady, and the radius will be prevented from rolling.—They may be confined cither by the application of a: bandage, or by tying them with broad tapes or riband. OS FEMORIS. I. At its ncch. DIAGNOSIS. When the thigh-bone has been fractured at its neck, the limb is remarkably shortened, and exhibits the appearance of a dislo- cation of the os femoris upwards. The two diseases are distinguished by the position of the lee t and foot; by the position of the knee and foot;—which in th< |FRACTURE OF THE OS FEMORIS. 237 Clined in the contrary direction, the toe being remarkably turned -vards, and almost backwards.-By the greater or less facility mth winch the limb may be moved;_i„ dislocation it can on, b. bent mto a small angle with the body ;-in fracture it admit, of bang drawn up to nearly a right nngle.-By the accident in queshon most frequently happening in old pcople.-By the cre- pitus which takes place upon a forcible extension of the limb. TREATMENT. To retain the divided portions of bone in apposition, various Weans have been proposed, Ead many complicated instrument, have been invented for the purpose; but all attempts hitherto nu, e have been attended with nearly equally unsuccessful results. I -A permanent shortening and disunion, with loss of motion in ■ the Lmb, has mostly beeQ ^ q{ ^ lecident. 1 Union may, however, be attempted in the following manner. -The hmb being forcib.y extended, large and firm compresses fcre to be aid upon the trochanter, and strongly bound by means U a bandage rolled round the hip, and between the thighs of he pat.ent.-A strong deal splint is next to be prepared, of sufii- nent length to reach some way up the side, and this is to be ecurely confined by means of bandages passed round the pelvis m above the knee. t. In the middle. DIAGNOSIS. The presence of a fracture in this part is to be discovered by irefully feeling along the upper side of the bone, when a pro- ving point will generally be discovered; and if at the same me the joint be rotated, a crepitus and preternatural motion at ic fractured part will be observable.238 FRACTURE OF THE OS FEMORI3i TREATMENT. The bone being reduced to its usual position by extension of < the limb, rags wetted with a cooling lotion—the liquor acctatis phimbi dilutus, or a plaster of the ceratum saponis, should be laid upon the part, and over this the many-tailed bandage.—Three broad splints should next be applied, one on each side of the thigh, and a third on the upper partj that on the outside being suificiently long to reach from the hip to the knee;—these be- ing confined with tapes, the limb may now be placed either in an upright position, in a fracture-box, with the knee bent to a considerable angle, or t he thigh may be laid on its outside, sup- ported by a pillow.—Sec Plate VI. Fig. 2. EXPLANATION OF TLATE VI. Fig. 1. Shows the appearance of a broken arm; the bandage, splints, | ahd tapes, being so adjusted, as to secure the exact apposition of the fractured ends of the bone. Fig. 2. Exhibits the appearance of the thigh when laid upon its out- side, in the manner recommended by Mr. Pott, it also shows tbc way in which the many-tailed bandage is applied, on the leg and thigh. The patient should be laid on a hair mattress, rather than on a soft bed; and if symptoms of inflammation succeed the ac- cident, the bandage previously applied should be frequently moistened with cold lotions; and should there be much tension and pain, they ought to be entirely loosened, and leeches, if necessary, be applied to the part,P1L ATE VI. ■*«. arra,& M&.irith the l..,„.l.,^.V .plinrs.,,, their proper p 1HFRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 239 OF THE PATELLA. The patella may be fractured in two directions; longitude P a'ld tr—rselv.-In the lntter case> l|pper ^ drawn up several inches among the muscles of the thigh. treatment. rn the longitudinal fracture, continued extension of the limb : and the application of a bandage to the knee, will be sufficient ■ to effect a speedy union. In cases of transverse fracture of the patella, owing to the Sreat separation of the divided portions, it is extremely difficult, M nearly impracticable, to effect an union by bone, the parts be.ng more frequently connected to each other by the interposi- tion of a ligamentous structurc.-The fractured portions may be «nade to approach each other as nearly as appears desirable, by :the apphcation of the proper bandage.-See Plate XII. Fir 6 - The middle of a roller of considerable length is to be applied over the upper or ascending part 0f the patella; and being mrned round the thigh just above the joint, it is to be crossed under ,he ham, and again on the upper part of the tibia; an J !>av,ng thus described the figure 8 around the joint, it is to be >rope,ly secured, and daily increased in tightness. In order to maintain a perfect extension of the limb, a splint veil lined with wool, may be applied under the ham. Where the transverse fracture of the patella has united by the Wific process, the bone ha, in some instances fully recovered it, •»tural strength; but in those cases where the union is of a li- gamentous nature, the firmness and safety of the limb always emain permanently defective.240 FRACTURE OF THE OLECRANON. OLECRANON. When the olecranon has been separated from the ulna, the same retraction takes place as in a fracture of the patella; and precisely the same treatment is required. TIBIA AND FIBULA. DIAGNOSIS. Fractures of these bones may be known to have taken place by the irregularity discovered upon carefully feeling along their prominent edge;-by the unnatural motion at the fractured part; —and by the crepitus created by pressure, or au attempt to rotate the leg. TREATMENT. The same refrigerant wash, or soap plaster, will be proper,* as in fracture of the femur; and over one of these the many tailed bandage.—Two splints arc then to be applied, the one on the outside, the other on the inside of the leg:-thc best fox this purpose are Martin's whalebone splints.—In applying tl.em: care should be taken that the outside splint be long enough tc reach completely from the knee to the toes.-The limb may the. be either laid straight out, and still further secured by the aPr > cation of junks and a foot-board, in the way represented » W annexed plate, or it may be laid on its side upon soft PiU«* with the knee a little bent.—See Plate VII.FRACTURE OF THE FIBULA. 241 EXPLANATION OF PLATE VII. Show s the mode of securing a fractured leg, by laying the limb in junks. In this method, two Ion:,' rolls of straw, or pieces of broom- stick, rolled up in the opposite ends of a sheet, until they nearly meet in the middle, are placed upon a large pillow; the fractured limb, previously secured in the usual way with its splints, being laid in the vacant space, and the whole apparatus brought toge- ther by long tapes, tied sufficiently tight to render the whole limb firm and steady, without creating any unpleasant sense of stricture; the support of a foot-board maybe added, if neces- sary. The pillows are to be secured by a proper application of tapes. THE FIBULA ALONE. A fracture of the fibula generally happens from two to three inches above the ancle-joint, which is always dislocated.—The foot is so much turned outwards as to form a considerable angle at the fractured part.—Upon moving the joint a crepitus is to b<r observed. TREATMENT. Splints are to be applied, and the limb treated as for a fracture of both bones; with the exception of a roller, which is to be sub- stituted in the place of the usual bandage.—It should at first be loosely applied, but afterwards gradually tightened and extended to the foot. MCOMPOUND FRACTURE. 242 COMPOUND FRACTURES. A fracture is called compound when it is accompanied with a wound in the. integuments, by which the extremities of the di- vided bone are exposed.—There is'much swelling and inflam- mation of the part; extensive suppuration ensues, with great constitutional irritation. rilOGN'OSIS Will be drawn from the extent of the injury, and from the constitution of the patient. Unfavourable circumstances are, the bone being much splin- tered;—supervening erysipelatous inflammation;—delirium;— the division of large arteries;—disposition to sloughing from ex- tensive contusion of the soft parts;—the constitution of the pa- licnt imparled by inebriety;—or by concomitant disease of the lungs, or any other important organ. TREATMENT. Any extraneous bodies which may have got into the wound, or small detached portions of bone, which, if suffered to remain, would increase the supervening inflammation, are first to be cau- tiously removed by means of a soft sponge moistened with warm water, or by the forceps.—Should there be any haemorrhage, this is to be suppressed by pressure, by the application of dossil? of lint, or bits of compressed sponge; rarely will there, be occa- sion for the use of the needle.—If the fractured extremity of the bone protrude through the wound in the integuments, it ought, if possible, to be reduced to its proper situation by manual exer- tions; but sometimes this is impracticable; in which case there will be a necessity, either for dilating the wound, or removing the protruding portion with the saw.—If the fracture be trans- verse, and the injury to the soft parts of no great extent, the former is to be preferred; but if the bone be broken obliquelyCOMPOUND FRACTURE. 243 M 2 and the protruded extremity be so sharp-pointed, as to endanger the production of great irritation were it to be reduced in that state, it will be advisable either entirely to remove it, or, having cut oft' its pointed end, only to reduce the remainder by dilating the wound. The fractured portions of bone being brought in apposition, union, if possible, is to be effected by the first intention; but if the injury to the soft parts has been so extensive as to render the attempt useless, a pledget of lint is to be applied to the wound, the limb is to be encircled with cloths wet with some refrigerant lotion, and afterwards the many-tailed bandage is to be lightly applied ; all pressure being avoided, as likely to increase the attendant inflammation. The limb is either to be supported on pillows, and placed in that position in which the wound may be got at with the greatest facility, or it should be laid in an appropriate fracture-box. If the inflammation run high, recourse must be had to gene- ral or local bleeding,—refrigerants,—opium in large doses. In many instances an operation will become necessary for Uic removal of the limb. The circumstances requiring amputation arc : — 1. Vrery extensive laceration or contusion of the soft part* 0. An opening communicating with a large joint. 3. The division of large arteries. 4. Hectic fever from an extensive suppurating surface. 5. Mortification. 6. The bone greatly splintered. Should the operation be required to be performed immediately after the accident, it will be advisable to draw- blood, in consi- derable quantity, from the incised arteries of the stump, or iYcw the arui.244 DISEASES OF THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. CALCULUS. SYMPTOMS. !. Of calculus in the kidney. Pain in the loins increased by pressure;—nausea and vomiting, especially upon friction being applied to the back ;—difficulty of making water;—the urine, after exercise, often bloody, puru- lent, or mixed with sand. II. Of stone in the ureter. . Pain and numbness of the leg and thigh of the affected side; —pain and contraction of the spermatic cord;—retraction of the testicle; —bloody, mucous, or purulent urine;—in some instances ischuria.—The calculus generally descends from hence into the . bladder, when the following symptoms suddenly take place: iu. <0f stone in the bladder. Micturition;—pain or sense of irritation at the extremity of the penis, greatly increased upon making water, to the evacua- tion of which there is frequently a sudden stop, followed by an almost insupportable sense of bearing down; and at the ejection of the least drops the pain amounts even to torture.—The pa- tient in voiding his usine is observed to place himself in a posi- tion in which every muscle may be as relaxed as possible;—his knees are bent, his head resting against some object for support, white he draws the prepuce forcibly «vc* the glans penia.CALCULUS. M 3 II. To endeavour to dissolve the calculus; or Prom the irritation of the bladder there are not unfrequently v.olent spasms of the abdominal, muscles, or inflammation and suppuration of the internal coat of the organ itself, accompa- ny with violent rigors, bloody and purulent urine, and i„ some instances general convulsions.—The urine is sometimes even of the spissitude of size, owing to the large quantity of mueus with which it is mixed. CAUSES. Hereditary predisposition; probably connected with a gouty diathesis;-sedentary life;—a long use of fermented liquors and of wines abounding with tartar; or of waters which have a large proportion of earthy matter suspended in them;—the long retention of urinej-the irregularities productive of gout. PROGNOSIS. The prognosis will be drawn from the urgency of the symp- toms, and from the existence of certain circumstances, which will determine the favourable or unfavourable event-of an opera- lion. Adverts circumstances are-extreme obesity;-the patient being the subject of asthma, or other disease of an important organ;—the constitution impaired by a previous dissolute life; — extreme heat of the weather;-diseascs of neighbouring park, as of the prostate gland;—ischuria;—cystitis. TREATMENT. I. To palliate urgent symptoms. Judications. ^ prevent its further accretion. III. To extract it by an operation, after other attempts for the relief of the patient have been unsuccessfully made. r.'246 CALCULUS, 1. If symptoms of inflammation, bleeding, general and local ; and other remedies recommended for the cure of nephritis and cystitis. Pain is to be alleviated by opium, administered in large dosea; —by the warm bath;—viva ursiliquor potas»a>. By muriatic acid, us recommended in the Memoirs of the Medical Society, vol. iii. Acidi muriatici gutt. x—xx. In aqua; cyatho ter iu die sumendse. Decoction of the garden leek. Copious emollient and opiate clysters. ENEMA OH I. JL Infusi lini Jviij. Tinctura; opii 3j. Fiat enema. • Terebintbina in the form of clyster.- ENEMA TEREBINTHIN.E. Ri Terebintbina; Jfs. Ovi unius vitellum, Infusi lini Rub tlie turpentine with the egg till they are perfectly incorpo- rated, then add the linseed infusion. II. By alkalis and aerated alkaline solutions—soda;—soap;—car- bonated potass;—aerated soda-water. Professor Hufeland and others affirm, that a dilute solution of pure potass has reduced calculi to a sabulous state. The carbonic acid alone is recommended by Harrison in the Memoirs of the London Medical Society.CALCULUS. 21/? m 4 Some calculi arc acted upon by alkalis, others by acids. For tlie composition of calculi consult Wbllastdn in Philosophical Transactions. Mr. Jesse Foot recommends lime-water by (he use of the vesica lotura.—Sec Foot on (he Petite Ledum. Seltzer, Uuxton, and Malvern waters. III. Previously to determining on an operation, the actual exist- ence of a calculus in the bladder is to be well ascertained by the introduction of an instrument called a sound.—This is perform- ed precisely as the introduction of the common catheter; and if no cause of deception be present, the percussion of the instru- ment against the stone will give a vibrating sensation to the fin- ger at once decisive: in general the sound is distinguishable also by the ear. There will frequently be a troublesome opposition to the passage of the sound cither at about five inches and a half up the urethra from the orifice, or at about one inch from the neck of the bladder, caused by a spasm of the inner coat of that canal.—This sometimes may confuse the surgeon, who may, from repeated failure, be led to ascribe the first to stricture, and the second to diseased prostate gland :—in such cases per- severance will mostly succeed. If the sound will not pass, a bougie, or, what is better, an elastic gum catheter, properly curved, is recommended: the latter should be introduced when flic bladder is distended with urifle, which flowing off, the Stone is pressed forward, and felt rasping its rough surface against the end of the instrument. The presence of the stone being ascertained, the patient, if of a plethoric habit, should, on the day preceding tliat determined upon for the operation, lose a moderate quantity of blood; an aperientCAECULUS. 248- should be also administered, with tepid diluents, and on the succeeding morning an emollient enema; and he should be di- rected to retain his urine, if possible, for some hours previous to the time of operating, THE OPERATION. These preparatory steps having been taken, the patient is to be laid upon a table considerably higher than is usual for other operations;—his thighs are to be drawn up to the abdomen, and the ancles and wrists of each side firmly bound together, by means of a noose formed in a piece of strong tape.—The thighs, should then be separated from each other, and the nates being made to project a little over the edge of the table, the surgeon is to commence his operation. He is first to introduce a grooved staff of proportionable size into the urethra and bladder. This is generally the most diffi- cult part of the operation, in consequence of the irritation caused; by the sharp edges of the groove ; no force, however, must b» used; the surgeon must wait till the spasm has ceased, and then passing his finger into the rectum, endeavour to direct the instrument, and prevent its being entangled in the membranous- part of the canal. The staff having entered the bladder, he must now feel the stone before he proceeds j then inclining the groove of it to the perineum, deliver the handle to an assistant, who is carefully to preserve it in that position. An incision is now to be made on the left side of the raphe of the perineum with a common scalpel, beginning immediately below the symphysis pubis, and continuing it obliquely down- wards and outwards, to about opposite the middle of the sphinc- ter ani muscle. By this the muscles of the perineum will be ex- posed,—A second incision is to be made between the bulb of the urethra and cms of the penis, at the same time drawingcalculus. 249 M 5 aside the former with the fore-finger of the left hand. The transversa perinei, and a few fibres of the sphincter ani, will now have been divided, and the membranous part of the urethra and prostate gland will be exposed.—The third incision will be through the membranous part of the urethra into the groove of the staff.—See Plate VIII. The next step in the operation is the introduction of the gor- get; and the knife may serve as a guide to the passage of rts beak into the groove: after which the operator is to take the staff from the assistant, and drawing it gently towards him, the gnrgct is to be pushed forwards, in an horizontal direction, until it has entered the bladder; the criterion of which is, the flow of water which then takes place, and the necessary percus- sion of the one instrument against the other.—See Tlate IX. The staff is now to be withdrawn, and the forceps pa^rd along the groove of the gorget into the bladder; the gorget is to be taken away, and then the forceps must be cautiously moved about in different directions, until, by striking against the stone, the situation of this is discovered; when the blades are to be separated, and the stone grasped in the most favourable position, which may in great measure be ascertained by the greater or less degree of expansion of the handles.—It should then be extract- ed in a slow and cautious manner, directing part of the extract- ing force downwards on the perineum, that it may with greater facility pass under the arch of the pubes. Should the stone be too large to pass the angle formed by the rami of the ischia, it is to be broken down by a pair of strong forceps usually made for this purpose, and each portion carefully removed by means of an instrument called the scoop, and by tepid injections,250 CALCULUS. EXPLANATION OF PLATE VIII. a. a. Erector penis. A small delicate muscle arising from the tuber ischii, and spreading its fibres over the lower part of the penis. The tendinous fibres of this muscle gra- dually blend themselves with the sheath of the crus penis. b. b. Accelerator urina;. From a middle tendinous line the fibres diverge and run obliquely upwards on each side, embracing the bulb and lower part of the corpus spon- giosum urethra?. From the muscular fibres arise tendi- nous slips, which are inserted into the crura penis. c. c. Sphincter ani, the fibres of which run in circles round the mouth of the intestine. It takes hold on the os coccygis behind, and is attached to the accelerator urinse before. d. d. The transvcrsalis perinei, which arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the central point where the sphincter ani touches the accelerator urinze. c. The external hoemorrhoidal artery, which, branching upon the extremity of the rectum, and enveloped in the muscular fibres, surrounds the anus. f. The external pudical, or perineal artery, passing along the side of the bulb of the urethra, and giving twigs to the erector muscle and crus penis. g. The transvcrsalis perinei, a branch from the last-mentioned artery, is distributed to the cellular membrane, and sphincter ani muscle. h. The corpus spongiosum urethra: dissected,PLATE Till.ISCHURIA, OR STRANGUR-Y. 255 bZ o 7h C3USe °f dis—"course must ot nad to the use of urinals. When from laceration of the parts, the constitution is to be -■.orated by tonics, and other means are to be employef Procunngumon of the divided part,. See Ulcer. From the pressure of the uterus. See works on midwifery. ISCHURIA, OR STRANGURY. T n, . DIAGNOSTIC SYMPTOMS. Vj strangury. Frequent inc.ination to make water, attended with smarting heat, and difficulty in voiding it, together with son si of fulness in the region of the bladder. II. Of retention. An accusation of „ri„e b the bIadderis d pam a„d dlstentlon of ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ the hypogastric ,-by the violent efforts to discharge the Zer occurnng at intervals ;-by the excruciating pain, and often by allI the symptoms of cystitis.-Sometiines, when the bladder has suffered its utmost distention, the „,i„e vuns off^om the „r ! *"" * h ^ in ^ -eters ;-and at others 'the patient is able, at intervals tn . "nervals, to make a sma portion of :::ret - —*• -» CAUSES. Want of tone in the body of the bladder, induced by any *USe, but chiefly by a too ion& rctcntion of ^ISCHURIA, OR STRANGURY. 256 Spasm at the neck of the bladder-;—inflammation induced by stimulating diuretics, or by other causes of cystitis;—the pres* sure of the enlarged uterus -.^-calculus impacted in the urethra, or in the neck of the bladder; or gouty matter deposited in these parts;—spasmodic or permanent stricture;—disease of the prostate gland;—fleshy excrescences in the urethratumors of contiguous parts; as haemorrhoids, polypi of the bladder, &c. TREATMENT. Of strangury. When arising from simple irritation, plentiful draughts of warm diluent liquids; as barley-water, a thin solution of gum Arabic, linseed-tea with a small portion of nitre dissolved in it; —fomentations to the pubes;—copious emollient and opiate clysters;—opium;—uva ursi;—an infusion of the seeds of the daucus sylvestris.—If the disease arise from any other of the above causes, the treatment will be that afterwards to be laid down for retention. ENEMA AMYLI CUM OPIO. R. Decocti amyli 3iv- Tincturae opii 3J. Misce pro enemate, quarta vel sexta quaque hora injiciendo. Of retention. The first step in the treatment of retention of urine, from whatever cause, should be an attempt to draw off the collected urine, by the introduction of a catheter into the bladder.— Should this be successful or not, the means to be pursued in other respects will depend upon the cause inducing the disease. I. Loss of tone. The muscular structure of the bladder is to be strengthened by the means recommended for the cure of incontinence ofISCHURIA, OR STRANGURY. 257 urine from the same cause, which Sce ; and recourse must be relief!° intl"0<I"Cti0n °f the Catheter «• » temporary III. Spasmodic stricture. The existence of this cause is denoted by the sudden accession of the d.sease, and by the violent and exquisitely painful spas- modic contractions of the accelerator urinal-After repeated and unsuccessful attempts to introduce the catheter.-copious bleed- mg;-the warm bath;-nauseating doses of emetic tartar — emollient and opiate enemas ;-the tinctura ferri muriatis-ten drops every ten minutes is recommended by Mr. Cline ;-opium with sulphuric .ether ;-conium and camPhor;-a blister to the penneum;-the operation.-Its return has been often prevented »y the use of oxymurias hydrargyri. PILULA CONII COMPOSITA. R. Hydrargyri submuriatis gr. ix. Extracti conii jj. Camphorae jk. Spirits rectificati gutt. v. Tere camphoram cum spiritu, dein adde hydrargyrum et conium. IFiat massa in pilulas xxiv. dividenda, quarum sumat Tgerduas tertia vel quai ta quaque hora. IV. Permanent stricture. See Stricture. v. Disease of the prostate gland. Consult that disease.253 ischuria, on strangury. vi. Pressure of the uterus in pregnane;/. Sec works on mid- wifery. vii. 'Tumors or excrescences in and about the urethra. Extirpation by the knife,--by ligature,-or byfaustic; ac- cording to the size tmd situation of the tumof.-^Jf small, the frequent introduction of a common tawglo, ov the continued use of iv metallic one. Should the means recommended for the treatment of the par- ticular causes of the disease above mentioned prove unsuccess- ful, and after repeated attempts to introduce the catheter or bougie have been fruitlessly made, the only resource to be had recourse to for the relief of the patient is the operation of punc- turing the bladder. THE OPERATION. A puncture may be made into the bladder in three different situations; it. In the perineum. II. Through the rectum. III. Above the pubes. I. In the perineum.—The patient being secured as in the opera- tion fur the stone, an incision is to be made on the left side of the raphe of the perineum, commencing immediately below the symphysis pubis, and continuing it between the bulb of the ure- thra and cms of the penis, until the prostate gland is exposed, or can be distinctly felt.-This is now to be pressed to one side With the finger of the left hand, while with the right a small trocharis introduced into the bladder a little above it, and to .ts 8jde.—The stilette being withdrawn, the canula is to be secured by proper bandages.RUPTURE OF THE URETHRA. 259 li. through the recfum.~^la this operation the finger, previously .ntroduced into the rectum, is to be made the guide to a curved trocliar, ,n length about five inches, which is to he p*sed into the bladder immediately beyond the prostate gland, and the Alette being withdrawn, the .mania I* to be meurdd by n band- «f6j and suffered to remain uutH thu mm or the ebstruotlen has been removed, in. Move the pHbct.-Thh operation, a, performed by Mr. Hun- ter, is described by Sir Everard Home as follows: A small opening being made with a lancet through the inte- guments, immediately above the pubes, the os pubis was felt for, and made a guide to the trochar, which was then passed .mmediately behind it perpendicularly into the bladder—Upon withdrawing the Uochar, a flexible gum catheter was introduced in its place, and the canula then slipped out over it.—The ca- theter was retained by means of a bandage passed around the body. RUPTURE OF THE URETHRA. SYMPTOMS. The scrotum becomes suddenly distended and swelled to a large size, which is increased upon every attempt to void urine; and upon endeavouring to introduce a catheter, this is found impracticable.—The urine is retained with excruciating pain, and if means arc not taken to evacuate it, numerous abscesses form, hectic fever arises, and a fatal termination ensues.260 FISTULA IN PEHINEO. CAUSES. External violence;—stricture, preventing the free passage of the uriue, hence producing a morbid accumulation and a burst- ing of the urethra;—stone impacted in the urethra operating in the same manner. TREATMENT. To evacuate the effused urine. To remove the cause which induced the dis- ease, if it still Temains and becomes an obstacle to the cure. For this purpo»e- a free incision is to be made into the tumor, and the collected urine being evacuated, the wound should be kept open, by the application of appropriate dressings, until granulations arise, and the communication with the urethra is. nearly closed, when a bougie should be daily passed, to prevent a consequent contraction of the canal of the urethra. Mr Should the disease have arisen from an obstruction in tha urethra, either by stricture, ov by the presenee of calculus, it will become necessary, after having evacuated the urine, to re- move the obstructing cause. Vide Calculus in the Urethra, and Stricture.—The stricture may in some cases be advantageously dilated with the knife, at the time the incision is made for let- tiajr out the effused fluid. FISTULA IN PERINEO Is a sinuous or fistulous ulcer in the perineum, communicat- ing witli the bladder, or with the urethra.ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. 26] CAUSES. It is generally the consequence of rupture of the urethra, pro- duced by obstruction of whatever nature; most frequently by str.cture.-It sometimes arises from an, abscess forming in one of the lacun* of the urethra, in consequence of gonorrhceal in- rl animation. TREATMENT. The first object will be to remove the cause of the obstruction ; without which the sinus cannot be made to fill uP.-The means of doing this are enumerated under the heads Stricture, &c. &c. Should the cause already have been removed, a staff should be introduced into the bladder, and a probe or small director be- ing passed through the external opening until it reaches the groove of the instrument, the sinus is to be dilated;- and if more than one, a communication is to be made between them. A preferable mode is, to introduce the bougie or flexible £um catheter, or common catheter invented by Mr. Smith, and to suffer it to remain in the urethra, occasionally taking it out to be cleaned; and afterwards to scarify the edges of the ulcer throughout its whole extent:—stimulating substances are to be applied to the wound, as the unguentum hydrargyri nitrico- oxydi, by which means gran dations will be formed, and the dribbling of urine soon cease. ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE GLAND Is met with only in old people; and is constituted in general, by an increase of the posterior lobe of the gland, lately de- scribed by Sir Everard Home, and which is found lying in the space separating the bladder from the vesical* seminales, ami between the two lateral lobes.262 ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE GLAND. SYMPTOMS. Sense of weight and bearing down in the perineum ;—fre- quent inclination to make water, with difficulty and pain in void- ing it;—great costiveness;—the evacuation of faeces is attended with much pain, and is in general accompanied with a discharge of urine;—micturition and dysuria increase, and at length a totaj suppression takes place. DIAGNOSIS. The urine and fsces discharged at the same time ;—the patient in making water is observed to kneel and separate his legs from each other, in order to effect a relaxation of the muscles;—an examination per rectum, when a large irregular tumor will be discovered in the situation of the prostate gland. TREATMENT. Recourse should be had to all those means which allay irri- tation in the urinary organs. Vide Calculus.—The internal use of opium,—conium,—oxymurias hydrargyri ;-the occa- sional or constant use of a catheter; which is the only effective means of giving permanent relief: it should be med from the first appearance of the disease, never suffering the bladder to be distended, as it is the pressure of the m ine upon the enlarged gland, which increases the mischiefby attention to this in the early period of the disease, it will frequently be removed. It is often very difficult to introduce the catheter, es- pecially where the enlargement is considerable; it will be neces- sary to give a curve to the instrument, sometimes till it forms nearly a semicircle, before it can pass over the tumor; which presses in upon the coats of the urethra, and lies over the nock »f the bladder almost like a valve.263 GONORRHOEA. GONORRHOEA. SYMPTOMS. About the fourth or fifth day after infection (and sometimes wuch later) has been conveyed, an uneasy sensation is felt at the extremity of the penis, with a slight degree of fulness of the lips of the urethra; and in the course of a few hours an oozing of a whitish fluid is perceived. The sense of pain soon becomes more acute, and is referred to the framum. In a few days the discharge from the urethra is much in- creased, and assumes a greenish or yellowish hue;—a consider- able degree of pain and scalding heat also is experienced on every attempt to make water, called ardor urvia.—Thls is a very general symptom of the complaint; Mr. Pearson, however, affirms that it is not an invariable attendant on it.—If the in- flammation ran high, a chordre is a very frequent consequence; —this is a painful and involuntary erection, accompanied with an incurvature of the penis downwards, and exquisite pain.— The adjacent parts sympathizing with those already affected, the bladder becomes irritable and incapable of retaining its urine for any length of time;—this givos the patient a frequent in- clination to make water, and he feels an uneasiness about the scrotum, perineum, and fundament.—Sometimes the discharge Is more copious from the external surface of the glans, or from the membrane of the prepuce, when phymosis or parapbymosis is nol unfrequently produced. See these diseases.—Often there is an enlargement of the glands of the groin, which however is to be considered as depending merely upon irritation of the lymphatics, and not as a syphilitic bubo.—The inflamma- tion sometimes extends along the whole course of the urethra, arid even to the bladder itself, producing actual cystitis.—In254- GONORRHCEA. other Instances it happens, more especially in the protracted state of the disease, that, owing to the rupture of a small vessel, a haemorrhage proceeds from the penis, occasioning alarm to the patient, but easily stopped by pressure upon the urethra- Spasmodic stricture, with retention of urine, are likew.se at times the effect of the great irritability of the parts , and m some instances a suppression of the evacuation from the pen, by cold, or other causes, has been followed by inflammation of the prostate gland and bladder, and of the uterus in women After a longer or shorter time, generally in about fourteen days, the discharge, from having been thin and discoloured, w.ll ome white and of a ropy consistence, will graduaUy dimmish In entity, and at last cease entirely, together Wtb every other inflammatory symptom. Gonorrhoea is considered by many surgeons simply as a local disease -.-instances are related of cases, in which the system has heen constitutionally affected by it, and of its producing cond- itional symptoms in others. Pearsort, In women the symptoms are similar to those before enume- rated as happening to the male; thera is the same heat and soreness in making water, and the ,m. discharge of discoloured matter from the urethra and neighbouring: parts, though gene- rally less severe;-* sometimes happens that a great enlarge- ment of the nymphee takes place, with an inflammation of the whole course of the urethra, so as to cause retention of urine. CAUSE. An inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra, induced by the action of a specific virus. 2n. To alleviate pain, and other urgent \ GONORttHCEA. ggj Indications. TREATMENT. I. To diminish inflammation. j symptoms, to which the disease may have given rise, in. To suppress the discharge from the ure- thra, after the inflammatory symptoms have subsided. By a spare diet ^abstinence from animal food, and fermente, liquors;—avoiding exercise. If the inflammatory symptoms run high, by general bluing -purging; with sulphate of magnesia, or the submuriate of mer- cury with rhubarb. fluents: frequent and copious draughts of a decoction of pearl-barley, or linseed, with the addition of gum acacia and a I small portion of nitrate of potass. Sedative and refrigerant .applications to the external parts, the liquor acetatis plumbi compositus. Warm fomentations^ and the immersion of the penis in wan* water, are sometimes more effectual. To abate pain, by the administration of opium i-conium Narcotic fomentations, of hemlock or poppy-heads Injections, of a watery solution of opium, or fresh crea* I diluted with warm water. Spams with suppression o/Jrle.-See Spa^odic Stricture Jvrnorrnagefrom the urethra.^ a compress applied to the fpenneum, and secured by means of the T bandage ;-the intro- duct.on of a large bougie ;-cold applications to the perineum, -vinegar and water^astringent and sedative injectic^-supcr- •acetate of lead. 3126Q GONORRHOEA. Inflammation of the prostate gland—indicated by much heat and pain in the perineum, and thence extending to the rectum} —by leeches,—fomentations,—poultices,—emollient clysters. Sympathetic enlargement of the glands of the groin.—By the application of leeches;—cold lotions ;—perfect rest. Orchitis.—See that disease. Phymosis and paraphymosis.—See these diseases. in. 1st, By astringent injections; a very diluted solution of s«U plvuric acid,—of sulphate and acetate of zinc,—of super-acetas plumbi,—cuprum ammoniatum;—where there is reason to sus- pect the existence of ulceration—of oxymurias hydrargyri, or «f submuriate of mercury joined with lime-water. R. Acidi sulphurici diluti gutt. viij. Aquae distillate Jviij. Fiat injectio. R. Zinci sulphatis gr. viij. Aquae distillate 3 viij. Fiat injectio. R. Zinci acetatis 9fs. Aquae distillate Jviij. Fiat injectio. R. Plumbi superacetatis 9f*. Aquas distillatae Jviij. Fiat injectio.GONORRHOEA. 267 Fiat injectio. N 2 R. Cupri ammoniati gr. iv. Aquae distillatte Jviij. R. Hydrargyri oxymuriatis gr. ij. Aquas distillates Jvijj. Fiat injectio. R. Hydrargyri submusiatis jfs. Liquoris calcis Jviij. Fiat injectio. These injections should be used cold every three or four hours. For women, a drachm of the sulphas zinci and acetas zinci, and superacetas plumbi, should be dissolved in half a piut of water. 2dly, Bythe internal use of astringents and tonics; balsaruum copaivoe,—sulphas ferri,—cinchona,—terebinthina. CONFECTIO TEREHINTHINiE. R. Olei terebinthinse rcctificati jj. Mellis despumati Jfs. Misce. The dose is one or two tea-spoonfuls twice a day. riLULA. TEBEBINTHINjE. R. Terebinthinae chiae 31J. Pulveris rhabarbari 3j. Balsami copaiba; quantum sufficit. IFiant pilulae granorum quinque, quarum capiat xgcr tres vel sex nocte maneque.268 GONORRHOEA. PILULA TEBEB1NTHIN.E COMPOSITA. R. Terebinthinse chiae, Olibani, singuloruni 3j\ Ferri sulphatis 9j. Balsami Peruvian! quantum sufKcit. Fiant pilulae xxiv.—Sit dosis ties vel sex bis terve die. In some cases, after every inflammatory symptom has disap- peared, in consequence of a relaxation of the mucous glands of the urethra, induced by repeated attacks of gonorrhoea, or from other causes, the discharge long remains, in some instances even1 for the remainder of life, and resists every remedy employed for its suppression: in this state it is denominated a gleet.—Recourse should be had to the injection of powerful astringents; a so- lution of alum in decoction of bark,—oxymurias hydrargyri,— sulphas cupri,—solutions of muriate of ammonia,—tincture of the blistering-fly,—cold water frequently dashed upon the pu- denda,—daily use of the cold bath, blisters applied frequently to the perineum. R. Aluminis purificati 31. Decocti quercus Jviij. Solve et cola pro injectione. R. Hydrargyri oxymuriatis gr. ir, Acidi muriatic! gr. j. Terantur simul in inoftario vitreo, dein adde Mucilaginis acacia1 Jj. Aquae distillatae Jvij, Fiat injectio.'GONOItRHCEA. 269 N 3 R- Cupri sulphatis gr. v|. Aquae distillatse Jviij. Fiat injcctio. itrinl1?61™1/86 °f t0nlCS' and of l^ZZT0 TT7 5 as bakaraum copai—°Iiba- "UrtM «n«,-«iphai cupri,_alum,-terebintWna. R- Balsami copaivae ?fs. Mucilaginis acacia: Jij. Aquae cinnamomi Jv. Syrupi tolutani Jf3. Fiat emulsic, cujus sit dosis cochlear* tria ter quotidie. R- OHbani 3j. Zinci sulphatis gr. jfs. i Balsami Peruviani quantum sufficit. ?iant pJufc quarum capiat ffiger duag ^ ^ ^ R- Cupri sulphatis gr. j. Extracti gentianae 3j. 1 fiant pilule xij. quarum sit dos.s bh ^ot;^ R. Aluminis purificati 3j. Extracti cascarilla: jjfs. Olibani puherisati quantum sufficit. Kant puul* mediocrcs, quarum sumantur tres ter in dies. R- Pulveris rhaei jj. Resinaj albae jij. Tiant piinl. U. quarum capiat duas vol tres bis in die. I" all obstinate cases there will be reason to suspect the es-270 stricture in the urethra. istence of stricture: this should be ascertained by the means presently to be mentioned. It may be necessary to observe, that, although the use of mercury is by most surgeons of the present day admitted to be unnecessary to the cure of gonorrhoea, yet that after all inflam- matory symptoms have disappeared, and not until then, it may be used by those who are still incredulous, to ensure the patient from the supposed danger of being afterwards attacked by the constitutional disease.—And in some cases it is .pronounced to be absolutely necessary. STRICTURE. A stricture is a thickened and contracted state of one or more parts of the canal of the urethra, producing an obstruction to a free passage of the urine. SYMPTOMS. Its presence is denoted by micturition;—by the discharge of mucus from the urethra;—by the urine, which is greatly di- minished in its stream ; often split into two, or voided drop by drop.—A small tumor may be felt in the perineum, and upon attempting to introduce an instrument into the urethra, an ob- struction occurs to its passage.—There is often a concomitant disease of the bladder, producing a discharge of purulent urine. —As the disease proceeds, the stricture becomes more contracted, the bladder evacuates its contents with great difficulty, the ureters dilate, and the urine is thrown back upon the pelvis of the kidneys, which enlarge also ; the symptoms arc now very distressing to the patient; his spirits sink, the stomach sympa-PLAT E X, I he appearances of stricture. The early state of stricture, originating from spasm. Stricture with inflammation of the corpus sporgbsuiu and ulceration of the inner membrane of the urethra Extensively diseased contracted and dilated urethra from repeated attacks ofviolent raflammation.STRICTURE IN THE URETHRA. 271 N 4 thizcs, nausea, frequent retching, rigors, considerable exacer- bations of fever, and a long train of miseries afflict him. The stricture then sometimes inflames, or mortifies, or ulcerates, or suppurating, causes abscess in the corpus spongiosum, or pe- rineum, &c. Occasionally the bladder partakes of the inflam- mation ; coagulable lymph may then be thrown out, which, fill- ing up its cavity, destroys the patient by the most dreadful sufferings. ** Stricture never occurs after fifty years of age. It is a disease of youth, as the disease of the prostate gland is of old age. CAUSE. Preceding inflammation or ulceration, by whatever cause induced. TREATMENT. The cure of strictures is to be effected either by the dilatation or the destruction of the diseased parts. The first is to be at- tempted by a common bougie, the second may be accomplished by the assistance of caustic. When the stricture does not obli- terate more than half the circumference of the urethra, whilst the parts are contracted, aiid their structure unaltered, the former indication may be fulfilled; but in more advanced cases the at- tempt cannot succeed. A bougie, of the full size of the canal, should first be tried, as it will often pass into the bladder, when' a smaller would be prevented, either by the stricture being the result of spasm and irritability of the membrane, or by the smaller one getting entangled in the laennre on the lower surface of the urethra. The bougie may be passed daily, unless particu- lar circumstance, prevent. Some surgeons prefer the metallic bougies, made by Mr. $Ml&, and recommend that they should be retained half afl hour and upwards in the urethra; whilst others, Sir Evcrard Home especially, deprecate the use of the metallic272 STRICTURE IN THE URETHRA. bougie, using the common ones, and also assert, that more rapid advances are made in the dilatation of the stricture by withdraw- ing the bougie in a few minutes, than by the other practice- Previous to the introduction of the bougie, it should be slightly curved, and covered with bland oil, or unguent, to prevent ir- ritation.—It ought to be worn at first about half an hour, gra- dually extending the time from day to day.—The size should be increased as the resistance to its passage becomes diminished.— In very bad strictures, catgut bougies are to be preferred. In those cases where a bougie, even of the smallest size, can- not be passed, as likewise in those which are of such long stand- ing as to preclude the hope of a recovery from its use, recourse is to be had to the application of caustics.—For this purpose a piece of lunar caustic is to be securely inserted into the extremity of a common bougie, and secured from irritating the urethra, by being so enclosed as not to project beyond the extremity of the instrument; being surrounded every where laterally by its sub- stance.—A common bougie is now to dilate the canal of the ure- thra, to ascertain the degree of the stricture, and to measure its exact distance from the external orifice : this distance being marked upon the armed bougie, it is to be immediately carried down to the contracted part, and its extremity suffered to remain there, with a slight degree of pressure, for the space of about half a minute, and then to be withdrawn.—This is to be repeated ..every second day; and if there be more than one stricture, they may thus be removed in succession.—It will always be proper to let the effects of one application of the caustic go off, before it is again passed to the stricture, even should it be a week or longer before the parts are tranquil. Care must be taken also, that the armed bougie be large enough entirely to destroy the whole facoPHYMOSIS. 273 N 5 of the first stricture, before it is passed to the second, or the first will return. The. caustic will sometimes induce all the more violent symp- toms of the disease in its advanced state: rigors resembling ague-fits,—severe attacks of fever,—sickness,—strangury,— spasm. These must be considered as the result of extreme ir~ ritability, and treated accordingly. Saline anodyne draughts, mild aperients, and quiet, are the best remedies; in the diet, acids must be strictly forbidden. If hferuorrhage from the urethra comes on, and which it docs sometimes, to a degree very alarming to the patient, it may be considered more favourable than otherwise ; it will cease in time ; no ill effect has ever arisen from it, and when it occurs the dis- ease never returns. PHYMOSIS. A thickened and contracted state of the prepuce, by which it is prevented from being drawn behind the glans penis. CAUSES. The irritation produced by the matter of gonorrhoea;—acrid secretions from the glandulee odorifcrae;—sometimes it is con- nate ; at others it depends upon an anasarcous swelling of the scrotum and penis ;—ulceration of the corona glandis, ccc. TREATMENT. Where inflammation is present, topical bleeding by leeches; cold lotions applied to the parts ;—fomentations, if these are un- successful;—the injection, if practicable, of warm fluids be- tween the prepuce and the glans ; —poultices of the liquor ace- tatis plumbi dilutus ; and in all cases the penis should be laid up274- PARAPHIMOSIS. against the belly. Before inflammation has come on, injections of Bate's water, or weak solutions of caustics, are successful. In obstinate cases, injections of corrosive sublimate in lime-water, three or four times a day, or mercurial ointment introduced under the prepuce by a pencil-brush, will often cure where every thing else has failed. If, after inflammation has been by these means removed, reduction by manual efforts still continues impracticable, an ope- ration is to be performed for the removal of the disease. This is done by means of a sharp-pointed knife concealed in a grooved director, which should be insinuated between the prepuce and the glans, until it has reached the corona glandis, when the knife should be pushed forwards, and the prepuce divided at the dor- sum : the wound is afterwards to be dressed with simple dress- ings. Circumcision is now often preferred to the merely slit- ting the prepuce, particularly in cases which are connate.—In this, the elongated prepuce is to be drawn forward, and the glans penis being defended, a bistoury is to be passed through it, and it is to be cut off: the remaining part is then to be slit up with a pair of scissars, as far as the corona glandis, and the small flaps are to be turned behind the glans, where they will soon heal, and little or no skin will be left to annoy the patient. PARAPHIMOSIS. Paraphymosis is a retraction and swelling of the prepuce, so as to produce a stricture behind the glans penis.—It is generally accompanied with much swelling and inflammation of the penis, which has in many instances terminated in mortification. CAUSES. It is induced by the same causes as the preceding disease.6ANCER OP THE PENIS. 275 TREATMENT. The same means must be employed to reduce inflammation its recommended for phymosis. If the gians penis become much swollen and hot, the paraphymosis must be scarified with a lancet, which generally will cause its reduction ; at the same time cold may be applied to the glans, to induce shrinking. The penis should always be turned upwards, and purgatives should be exhibited; and if, after these, the parts still continue irre- ducible by pressure with the fingers simply, the prepuce is to be divided, by making an incision upon each side, and not, as di- rected for phymosis, on the dorsum penis, which would in this case endanger the division of the vessels and nerves of the penis. After the operation, an emollient cataplasm should be laid upon the part, and the wound afterwards treated as a common sore. CANCER OF THE PENIS. SYMPTOMS. The disease usually begins with a small circumscribed tumor, or a warty excrescence, upon the glans or prepuce of the penis' and is frequently accompanied with a natural phymosis, or the latter disease becomes a consequence of the former—After the expiration of a sliortcr or longer time, inflammation supervenes ulceration takes place, a fetid ichor is discharged, a livid and truly cancerous fungus arises, attended with an intolerable burningand lancinating pain.-The ..lands in the groin at length become affected, and if the parts are not removed by a timely N 6276 HYDROCELE. operation, it usually, like all other cancerous diseases, proves fatal. If the prepuce be the seat of the disease, circumcision alone ■Bill be required.—If it be seated in the glandular part, or should have extended to it, amputation of the penis becomes necessary. THE OPERATION. • The sound parts are first to be compressed by a ligature form- ed of narrow tape, as recommended by Mr. Hey; after which a circular incision is to be made through the integuments, and the skin being drawn back by an assistant, the body of the penis is to be divided with one cut.—The vessels are now to be secured by ligature, and the integuments being brought forwards, are to be united with adhesive plaster, through the middle of which, by means of an opening previously formed, a canula should be passed into the urethra, and retained there by means of liga- tures, connected with a bandage passed around the body. HYDROCELE. An accumulation of water within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the testis, of the spermatic cord, or in the cellular membrane of the scrotum. l. Of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, ox true hydrocele. SYMPTOMS. An accumulation of a fluid is first perceived to commence at the bottom of the scrotum, which gradually increasing, the lat- ter becomes enlarged and distended ; a distinct fluctuation is ge- nerally to be distinguished;—the tumor acquires a pyramidalHYDROCELE. 277 ;i?C:~tllerC 15 "° "!lin ™ ^lonrrtion of the integuments- Z ;r • te-ticle may genmi,y bc fc,t °n«- ^ part of the tumor, ,t U discovered with difficulty when the oart, - te„Se,y.wolnj as it is then so pushed forward JilJZ tirely surrounded. CAUSES. J^tT tC,tid° io" —t climate,; •tortures of the urethra}_hydatid.. DIAGNOSIS. col:: r f,omot"cr ^ ^ CO^ntl,^p^dal, except, where the patient has had a hernia or where the disease ha, been taken for hernia, and a trT. I ncy> yct hM cntenon i. retfdered fallacious when the invit- ItT ,hwe P'~'^ —V- inflation, t Wh,ch ase they become- thickened and impermeable to KghtZ the ductuauon of the contained fluidity tumor ha in, |«t commenced at the bottom ,f the scrotum 5 #V«« ^.-By the tumor not dilating wbea „,„ , coughs ;-hy the tumor in the one di™ ' ton ,r tl J ,case commencing at the top of the scrotum, in the other at the bottomS-by the ZZ of returning the pr()tlu,,(1 intestine, in redu< hie I ' the abdomen ;-and when there is any fl ^ Which never is the case ifl , me ,iydroctlc> °f ,f> #V«B V the 0:sl!cla.~liy t\i{. wnrlf „, ,. , ™*.( .JE^tErr*"1 •cssed by scirri.u,. fc ty 10 t,,e touth P«- ^ «.« colour and .hap. of the tumor,g7g HYDROCELE. and by that disease suddenly coming on and being usually the consequence of accident. From anasarca of the scrotum.-By the one being elast.c to the feel, the other edematous ;-the one pyramidal, the other irregularly shaped. TREATMENT. At the commencement of the disease, and *hen a small quantity of fluid only i« collected, attempts may be made to disperse it by cold and stimulating applications ; a solution of the murias ammonia:, with the addition of vinegar and spirit. R. Ammonia; mnriatis Jfs. Aceti communis Jiij. Spirit As tenuioris, Aquffi distillata;, ia. Jiv. Fiat lotio sa-pe applicanda. The lotio ammonite muriatls is also a proper and a stronger application. In general, however, recourse is had to an operation tor tM evacuation of the fluid, as any other means will very rarely sue- eued. the oPEn.vnoN May be either palliative, or radical. The palliative.-™* is simply an evacuation of the water, by means of a trochar.-The operator having grasped the bad; pflft of the tumor with his left hand, is to introduce a lancet-pomted trocharat the anterior and inferior part of the scrotum; and having pushed it obliquely upwards, the stilette is to be w.th- drawn, and the canula suffered to remain until the whole ot the water has been evacuated; when the wound is to be covcrc* with a piece of adhesive plaster, and the scrotum suspendedHYDROCELE. %75 a suspense, bag, „ the T ^ » by some very good surgeons preferred ro thfl « Lt ; *** fnSt« -hen it „ used, it shouId ^ «t° m°^~nt Part of the tumor, «, the ^^ riiir:^erdirect:shoi,idthen be introdu^ - ^ w ,lt t,co,lapsing'8nd the conse^ent **» of wa e Into the celWar membrane. No exercise nor exertion Of the rascal cure By injection.-^ niode of ^ After having evacuated the i r „„ir « vdcuatea the fluid, as above directed in thp ^ operation (with the trochar)j ^ ^ ^ failed with some stimulant %,or; dilnt(jd po -of vitnoiated.nc, are most proper for the pu^e T s" o be injected by means of an elastic bottle and stop coel, Jr -ousTy adapted to the canu.a of the trocbar; and when t e tu- mor has by this means been made to regain its origin*, £ ^ ocK- is to be turned, and the lower part of I sy l'e ! crewedfrom5ts nec,;, which should be suflered to rem in he canula The patient will soon begin to comply of pa!" he part, and colic pain.s across the abdomen; when these "J -d not unt„ then, the ncc,f of the instrument is to be W h ' drawn from the canilla, the ^ Qr J™£ and the ptent should be conveyed to bed '^"rged, In a few day, the scrotum will again become tumid, from an eff-n of coag,dab,e lymph caused by the inflammatiorf oTthe t,„s gradually wearing away, , complete cure is effected ^reare many other means of exeiHng the necessary ^ *'0n' b* «>e above, the most successful: when, however there is any doubt about the nalure of the disease/whenTL'276 HYDROCELE. operation, it usually, like all other cancerous diseases, proves fatal. If the prepuce be the seat of the disease, circumcision alone will be required.—If it be seated in the glandular part, or should have extended to it, amputation of the penis becomes necessary. THE OPERATION. The sound parts are first to be compressed by a ligature form- ed of narrow tape, as recommended by Mr. Hey; after which a circular incision is to be made through the integuments, and the sldn being drawn bacli by an assistant, the body of the penis is to be divided with one cut.—The vessels are now to be secured by ligature, and the integuments being brought forwards, are to be united with adhesive plaster, through the middle of which, by means of an opening previously formed, a canula should be passed into the urethra, and retained there by means of liga- tures, connected with a bandage passed around the body. HYDROCELE. An accumulation of water within the cavity of the tunica vaginalis of the testis, of the spermatic cord, or in the cellular membrane of the scrotum. j. Of hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis testis, or true hydrocele. SYMPTOMS. An accumulation of a fluid is first perceived to commence at the bottom of the scrotum, which gradually increasing, the lat- ter becomes enlarged and distended ; a distinct fluctuation is ge- nerally to be distinguished;—the tumor acquires a pyramidalHYDROCELE. 277 shape j—there is no pain nor discolouration of the integuments ; and upon viewing the parts near to a strong light, a transparency is observable. The testicle may generally be felt on the posterior part of the tumor; it is discovered with difficulty when the parts are tensely swoln, as it is then so pushed forward as to be en- tirely surrounded. CAUSES. Violence done to the testicle ;—inflammation;—hot climates; —strictures of the urethra ;—hydatids. DIAGNOSIS. 1 It is distinguished from other diseases by its shape, which is constantly pyramidal, except where the patient has had a hernia, or where the disease has been taken for hernia, and a truss has been worn, when it acquires an obleng shape,—by its transpa- rency; yet this criterion is rendered fallacious when the invest- ing membranes have previously undergone inflammation, in which case they become thickened and impermeable to light;— by the fluctuation of the contained fluid ;-by the tumor having first commenced at the bottom of the scrotum. From hemia.-By the tumor not dilating when the patient coughs;-by the tumor in the one disease commencing at the top of the scrotum, in the other at the bottom;—by the facility of returning the protruded intestine, in reducible hernia, into the abdomen;—and when there is any fluid in an hernial sac, the testicle may always be found and moved on the outside of it' which never is the case in true hydrocele. From disease of the testicle—^ the want of discolouration and hardness; and the abse.ee of that irregularity to the touch pos- scsscd by scirrhus. Frvm /«?matvcck,-By the colour and shape of the tumor,HYDROCELE. and by that disease suddenly coming on and being usually the consequence of accident. From anasarca of the scrotum.-By the one bemg elast.c to the feel, the other edematous;-the one pyramidal, the other irregularly shaped. TREATMENT. At the commencement of the disease, and when a small quantity of fluid only U collected, attempts may be made to disperse it by cold and stimulating applications ; a solution of the murias ammonia*, with the addition of vinegar and spmt. R. Ammonia; mnriatis Jfs. Aceti communis Jiij. Spfeitus tenuioris, Aqua: distillate, aa. Jiv. Fiat lotio seepe applicanda. The lotio ammonia mnriatis is also a- proper and a stronger application. . In general, however, recourse is had to an operate tor tU evacuation of the fluid, as any other means will very rarely sue- eeed. THE OPERATION May be either palliative, or radical. The palliative.-?^ is simply an evacuation of the water, by mcans of a trochar.-The operator having grasped the back part of the tumor with his left hand, is to introduce a lancet-pomtcd trocharat the anterior and inferior part of the scrotum; and having pushed it obliquely upwards, the stilette is to be *>th- (lraWn, andthccanula suffered to remain until the whole of th water has been evacuated; when the wound is to be covered With a piece of adhesive plaster, and the scrotum suspendedHYDROCELE. 275 there is any doubt about the nature of the disease; when it is with a suspensory bag, or the T bandage. The common lancet is by some very good surgeons preferred to the trochar, as be- ing the safest instrument: when it is used, it should be plunged >nto the most prominent part of the tumor, till the water issues out; a probe or director should then be introduced, to prevent the sides of the wound collapsing, and the consequent effusion of water into the cellular membrane. No exercise nor exertion should be used by the patient for some time after this operation. Of the radical cure by injection.-The mode of performing the radical cure of the hydrocele, now most frequently employ- ed, is the following : After having evacuated the fluid, as above directed in the palliative operation (with the trochar), the scrotum is to be again hlled with some stimulant liquor j diluted port-wine, or a sola- tion of vitriolated zinc, are most proper for the purpose. It is to be injected by means of an elastic bottle and stop-cock, pre- viously adapted to the canula of the trochar; and when the tu- mor has by this means been made to regain its original size, the cock ,s to be turned, and the lower part of the syringe un- screwed from its neck, which should be suffered to remain within the canuia.-The patient will soon begin to complain of pain in the part, and colic pains across the abdomen; when these occur, and not until then, the neck of the instrument is to be with- drawn from the canula, the wine or injected liquor discharged, and the patient should be conveyed to bed. In a few days the scrotum will again become tumid, from an effusion of coagulable lymph caused by the inflammation of the tunie: this gradually wearing away, a complete cure is effected. There arc many other means of exciting the necessary inflamma- tion, but the above is the most successful : when, howeverHYDROCELE. formed by hydatids, ov where there is a confused and unusual feel in the parte , it will be better to lay open the cavty than inject if.-in doing this an incision must be made of some Wth along the tunica vaginalis testis, into which an aperture sufficiently large to admit the finger must be made; the part must then be filled up with flour or lint, and healed from the bottom. This method is the most certain, and it gives the sur- geon the best opportunity of examining the state of the testicle, which must always be ascertained to be quite sound, before any attempts are made at the radical cure. Hunter. Home. II. Hydrocele of the spermatic cord. This is a collection of water within the tunica vaginalis of the spermatic cord, or in separate cells. It most frequently occurs in infants. It is distinguished from hydrocele of the tunica vaginahs tes- tis, by being situated above the testicle; which, when the tumor- is not large, may be distinctly left below. * Ln aLarla of the spermatic fW.-By the smoothness, elasticity, and fluctuation of the one tumor, and the edematous feel of the other. It is often with great difficulty distinguished from hern.a— See Hernia. TREATMENT. Stimulant and astringent applications are generally sufficient to procure an absorption of the fluid j^friUion. in. Anasarca of the scrotum. An anasarca state of the. scrotum sometimes occurs, and increases to a large size, without any concomitant hydrops af- fection of neighbouring parts.VARICOCELE, OR CIRCOCELB. 281 CAUSES. Enlargements of the glands in the groin, or the pressure of a truss s—blows, or other injuries ;_the pressure of the enlarged uterus in pregnancy, or other mechanical causes producing com- pression of the lymphatic vessels j-inflammation of a peculiar kind. DIAGNOSIS. The cedematous feel, and irregular shape, distinguish it from hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis; as likewise from other dis- eases of the scrotum. TREATMENT. Small incisions made with the point of a lancet, and after- wards suspension, and compression of the scrotum, by means of a laced bag, or the T bandage. VARICOCELE, OR CIRCOCELE. Tumor produced by a varicose state of the spermatic vein, which sometimes increases to a large size.—It is attended with no pain, and to the sight and feel often ^eems composed of hard knotty irregularities;—sometimes it much resembles hernia and I hydrocele, for the former of which it is often mistaken. CAUSE. Mechanical obstruction to the return of blood, from whatever <cause;-a relaxed state of the coats of the vessels themselves. DIAGNOSIS. The peculiar feel and appearance, with the tumor receding in a recumbent position, distinguish it from the complaints he- :ftre mentioned; not so from hernia.—See Hernia.ORCHITIS. 282 TREATMENT. When the disease arises from temporary pressure upon the vessels in their course, this, if practicable, should be removed ; —when from relaxation, the constant use of a suspensory ban- dage,—astringent and stimulant applications to the part, as the lotion of muriate of ammonia with vinegar. LOTIO AMMONITE MUIUATIS SPIKITUOSA. R. Ammonite muriataj Jj. Acidi acetici impuri, Spiritus rectificati, singulorum O. fs. Fiat lotio. The cold bath ;-cokl water frequently dashed upon the peri- ■euni;—a solution of alum,—of sulphate of zinc. ORCHITIS. Hernia Humoralis. SYMPTOMS. Inflammation in and about the testicle commences with pain m enlargement of the epididymis or testicle; shooting pains along the course of the spermatic cord.-The body of the tes- ticle is next affected; it swells, is hard and paihful;-the scro- tum becomes much enlarged and inflamed ;-there is a distressing pain in the loins;-thc system is at length affected with fever, quick, hard pulse, nausea, and vomiting. CAUSES. Inflammation of the testicle may be induced by any of the common causes of inflammation, but is most frequently produced by irritation of the urethra, by the matter of gonorrhoea ;-the .m-ORCHITIS. 283 proper use of injections, or incautious introduction of a bougie. —It often follows a suppression of the gonorrheal discharge from eold;—sitting on wet grass is a frequent cause. TREATMENT. The patient should be put upon a spare regimen, should ib- mmn m a recumbent posture, with the part suspended by means of the bag-truss employed for irreducible hernia. If the inflammatory symptoms run high, even in the absence of fever, general bleeding will be necessary; if „ot, locai bleedmg by the application of leeches;-saline purges ;-dia- phoretics ;—antimonials. Emetics have been highly extolled for their good effects in this disease ;-sedative and refrigerant local applications; as, the li- quor acetatis ammoni^-a solution of the muriate of ammonia, —the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus; and at night a cold ca- taplasm made of linseed or rye, with the addition of a solution of acetate of lead, or: R. Acidi acetici O. fs. Spiritus tenuioris Tiv, Miser. This may be kept constantly applied by several folds of soft linen, or .t may be made into a poultice with linseed meal. After the inflammatory symptoms have disappeared, should the swelbng remain, and assume a scirrhous form, oxymuriate of mercury ;-mercurial applications topically, as the emplas- n,m hydrargyri;_the unguentum hydrargyri fortius, spread on flannel, or gently rubbed upon the scrotum ;-the unguentum Mrargyr, fortius mm camphora;-oil-skin ;-rcpeatcd emetics. Should suppuration ensue, poulticcs,-fommtations,-CHrly incision;—tonics, bark, &c.£84? SCIBRHUS or THE testicle. A fungus sometimes arises which assumes an appearance much resembling cancer. It should be removed by the opiate caustic, or by excision. CAUSTICUM COMMUNE CUM OPIO. R. Potassae cum calce 3'ij. Opii in pulverem triti 3fs. Saponis mollis quantum sufficit. The caustic powder and the opium being mixed together, are to be formed into a paste with the soap. The liquor acetatis plumbi applied on lint, will sometimes heal indolent phagedenic ulcers of the testicle after all other' means have failed. SCIRRHUS OF THE TESTICLE. SYMPTOMS. An enlargement is first obserred in the body of the testicle, which becomes pretematurally hard, and gradually increases in size.—An acute, intermitting, lancinating pain ensues; the co- lour of the integuments becomes livid ; the surface assumes an irregular knotty appearance; and often adhesions take place of the skin, forming indentations which much resemble cicatrices. —Ulceration supervenes; the edges of the ulcer become livid, sore, hard, and retorted; fungous excrescences sprout forth; and if timely means are not employed to prevent the extension of the disease, the spermatic cord partakes of the affection, becoming hard and knotty.—Emaciation and hectic fever ensue. DIAGNOSIS. From orchitis.—-The one is an acute, the other a chronic dis- ease : the one enlarging gradually, the other suddenly.—In theSCIRRHUS OF THE TESTICLE. 285 •»etbe pain is intermittent, pUnffent)lanc!n onstan,- n hitis the sm.face rf ^ ^ J»^J ^^W,.-By the transparency of the tumor in thai <—, and other marks already mentioned,-Vide ^ prognosis Will ever be unfavourable,- more especially should there be d rorththeiint;&UmentS' eDl« °f *e spermaU cord or of the glands Mediately within the pelvis, as disco- id by pressure in the recumbent position of the p'atient !-f be present, or the patient be the subject of diseased J eera.-The success of an operation maybe predicted by the ab- ence of the ahove circumstances, and by the youth and unim- paired const.tution of the patient. TREATMENT. After employing the common remedies for the removal of f the pat-ent demands the performance of an operation for ti e removal of the diseased testicle. THE OPERATION FOR CASTRATION The parts being shaved, and the patient laid in the position recommended in the operation for hernia, an incision i Tb made t rough the integuments, from the upper part of i: z t bottora of the tcstic,c-By tws ^ externa, pudendal artery will be divided; which, if necessarv •bon d beimmediate.ytied.-The fascia covering the cr L r bC ^osed ;-this being divided! the split are to be dissected from the vas deferens, and secured b, Mature, the latter being cxcludcd.-The cord is now to be di-286 HEMATOCELE. yided at least an inch above the diseased part; after which the testicle is to be removed from its situation by a cautious dissec- tion. The same ligature may be suffered to remain upon the cord, or it may be slackened, and the artery secured alone. Some surgeons cut down upon the cord, and secure it, by passing a li- gature round it before they lay bare the testicle, in order to pre- Tent their patients feeling the rest of the operation; but this . practice is dangerous, as instances have occurred of the tumor, on being opened, proving to be a rupture; and of the occur- fence of hemorrhage on the subsequent division of the cord for the removal of the testicle, from the artery being imperfectly compressed. Others dissect out the testicle from its attachments, and then examining where the cord is healthy, pass a double lb guture between the spermatic vessels and the vas deferens, and inclose the former very tightly in the one part, and the latter in the other.—The ligatures will generally come away in nine or ten days. The ligatures used for this operation should be made with great attention to their shape and neatness, that they raa* he applied with the greatest nicety and drawn very tight. After the operation, the edges of the wound are to be brought together by means of the interrupted suture, and the part being covered with a soft compress, is to be supported by the suspen- sory bag, or T bandage. HEMATOCELE. A tumor formed by an extravasation of blood in the tunica vaginalis of the testicle, or of the spermatic cord ; in the body of the testicle itself, or in the cellular membrane of the 6«rotuur. a287 HEMATOCELE. CAUSE. Mechanical injury;—puncture;—a rupture of vessels after the sudden removal of the water in the operation for hydroceles —an atonic or relaxed state of the vessels themselves. DIAGNOSIS. The sudden appearance of the tumor;—when arising from external injury, the effect immediately following the cause;—the livid discolouration of the scrotum;—the swelling increasing' from the bottom. TREATMENT. Upon the first appearance of the tumor, astringents may b<i employed to effect an absorption of the fluid ;—should these be unsuccessful, recourse must be had to an operation, which is performed as for hydrocele by incision ;—after which, should an oozing of blood continue, tonics and astringents may be em- ployed both internally and topically ;-bark with sulphuric acid, os recommended by medical writers for the cure of passive hae- morrhages;—locally, tincture of myrrh, &c—Vide Incised ffounds. If the effusion of blood be into the body of the testicle, cas- sation will be necessary.—See Scirrhtu of the Testicle.28S DISEASES ABOUT THE ANUS. HEMORRHOIDS, OR THE PILES. The piles consist in a distention of the hemorrhoidal veins; or In an effusion of blood into the surrounding cellular sub- stance, forming small tumors, either within the anus or its verge, or sometimes producing one tumid or varicose ring, by which it is sunounded. In some cases they are attended with a discharge of blood, particularly when the patient goes to stool, called the bleeding or open piles ;-m others there is no discharge, when they are de- nominated the blind piles.-Sometimes they are situated within the gut, and obtain the name of internal piles;—but more fre- quently they protrude beyond the anus, and are called external piles. SYMPTOMS. The piles are sometimes preceded by a sense of weight in the back, loins, and bottom of the belly, together with sickness at, the stomach, and flatulency in the bowels;—on going to stool, a pungent pain is felt in the fundament, and small tumors are perceived to project beyond its verge.—If these break, a quan- tity of blood is voided, and a considerable relief from pain is ob- tained;—if they continue unbroken, the patient experience* great torture every time he goes to stool, and feels an inconve- nience when sitting down on any hard seat. CAUSES. Habitual costivencss; —hard riding;—plethora;—excesses of various kinds;—the suppression of long-accustomed evacuations;THE PILES. 289 —the use of aloetic purgatives;—the pressure of the enlarged uterus in pregnancy, TREATMENT. The frequent use of gentle laxatives; as, sulphur,—confecti* Semite,—super-tartras potassre. CONFECTIO SULrHURIS. R. Sulphuris loti Jfs. Coufectionis senna; Jij. Nitrutis potass* jiij. Syrupi aurantii quantum sufficit. Fiat confectio. One or two drachms should he taken two or three times a day, so as to keep the bowels open. When the tumors are attended with much pain and inflamma- tion, leeches,—puncture;—refrigerant lotions; as, a solution of super-acetas plumbi,—the liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus with the addition of opium. Emollient and anodyne ointments. R. Cnguenti cetacei Jj. Tiuctune opii jj. Fiat unguentum. Fomentations sometimes succeed hotter in alleviating pain ami inflammation.than cold lotions; as, the fomentum papavcris,— fomen turn conii. Finn yet gentle pressure of each pile between the finger and thumb. In cases where the tumors arc relaxed and irritable, fomenta- tions of oak-bark,—of galls,—the frequent affusion of cnM Water, or290 'II1E pile*' CONFECTIO FIPERIS COMPOSITE. R. Piperis nigrj, Radicis inula: camparix, aa- tbj - Seminum foeniculi dulcis Ifjiij. Mollis despimiati, Sacchari purificati, aa. Ifeij. The three first ingredients al'e to be finely powdered and welt mixed; after which the honey and sugar, melted together over the fire and formed into a clear syrup, are to be added and the whole beaten into a mass. This is the celebrated Ward's Paste.—The dose is the size *f, a nutmeg three times a day, with a glass of water or white wine. Balsam of copaiva taken on sugar, forty drops twice a day. The following ointment is also a good application : tJNGUENTUM GALL.33 CUM CAMPHORA. R. Gallaruin pulveris 31J. Camphorae 31s. Adipis preparatae fj. Fiat unguentum. In the open piles, should the attendant haemorrhage be pro- fuse, the injection, if within the anus, or the application if situated externally, of a solution of alum,—of superacetas plumbi,—fomentation of oak-barli.—Pressure upon the bleeding veins, either by means of a small tube, covered with lint moist- ened with an astringent fluid. Extirpation by ligature or excision. Mr. Ware observes, that though there may be many he- morrhoidal tumors, the pain is found usually to proceed fromMS TULA IV ANO. 291 «ie only. This is generally situated in the centre, is hard, inflamed, of a darker colour, and more prominent than the rest; this he directs to be secured by means of a forceps or tenacu- lum, and then to be removed with a pair of sharp scissars cold brandy and water, or a saturnine solution, is afterwards tu 6e applied. FISTULA IN ANO. A sinuous ulcer in the neighbourhood of th# anus and rectum. —It is either complete, incomplete, or compound. A fistula is termed complete when there arc two openings ; the one externally, the other communicating with the rectum. —The latter of these is ascertained to exist by an examination per rectum, and by the discharge of feces by the sinus. An incomplete fistula is where the ulcer communicates with the gut, but has no external opening, or where there is an ex- ternal opening, but no communication with the rectum.—Its existence, in the first case, is ascertained by a discharge of mat- ter by stool, and by an examination per auum, by which the sinuous opening may often be discovered. The compound fistula is where the ulcer, besides opening into the rectum, communicates with the bladder, as shown by the fetid smell and brown feculent sediment in the urine; —by air discharged Com the urethra, and by great irritation and dysuria. —Within the vagina, in which case feces are discharged by both orifices; or when there is concomitant disease of the sacruw, coccyx, or «ontiguons parts. o 2FISTULA IX ANO. 292 m CAUSES. Obstructions in the rectum from collections of hardened faces ;— condylomatuus excrescences 5—piles ;—inflammation, and consequent abscess, induced by w hatever cause ; by the application of cold, as sitting on wet grass —inflammation con- sequent on fever. TREATMENT. Of the complete fistula. i. To reduce the sinus to the state of an Judications. healthy ulcer.—See Ulcer. [. If that be impracticable, to reduce it to the state of a simple wound. 1. Br the topical use of stimulants ;-injections of liquor calcis, —of a solution of hydrargyria oxy-muriatus,—of tincture of blistering-fly. By invigorating the constitution by tonics ;— Peruvian barl;, —preparations of steel,-pure air-regular exercise, if practi- cable. I!. By an operation performed in the following manner: The patient being placed with his back towards a window, while his body leans upon a table or bed, the finger covered with a bland oil is first to be introduced at the rectum ; after which, if the fistula be complete, a probe is to be passed along its course, until its extremity reach the internal opening, and •touch the finger in the rectum;—a probe-pointed bistoury is then to be passed along the probe, and having reached the open- ing in the intestine, its handle is to be elevated, and its point depressed as much as possible by the finger previously introduced,PROLAPSUS AN I. 293 ami in tliis manner gradually drawn out at the amis; by which means a complete incision will be made of the intermediate space between the sinus and the gut. It the fistula be incomplete, having uo internal opening, an artificial communication with the intestine must be made ; this is most easily effected by means of a curved bistoury with a concealed point, which may be pushed forwards through the cats of the gut, when the instrument has reached the extremity of the sinus.—Mr. Hey. Should the matter have so insinuated itself along the cellular membrane, as to cause several external openings, they are to be successively dilated, until all are laid into one. The edges of the wound are to be prevented from uniting, and dressed with some stimulating application. If any callous parts are observable, they are to be touched, by mean? of a camel- hair pencil, with nitrate of silver, or nitrie-oxyd of mercury. When an abscess is discovered in the neighbourhood of the anus, and is suspected to communicate with the rectum, by a discharge of matter by stool, suppuration is to be accelerated by the application of fomentations and poultices, and an early opening should be made ; by which means the sinus will be re- duced to the first of the above species. PROLAPSUS AN I. A protrusion o"f the rectum beyond the verge of the anus. CAUSES. Relaxation of the parts ;—irritation of the rectum by the use of aloetic purgatives;— worms; -(Hemorrhoids;— violent exer- tion for Iheexpulsion of hardened faeces. 0 3294 ynoLATS.us am. TREATMENT. r it To replace the protruding portion of 'in- Indications. J lestine. (, II. To prevent its again prolapsing, i. The patient hcing laid upon his back, the finger being covered- with a piece of soft linen, or a cone formed of stiff paper, is to be introduced at the aperture in the prolapsed intestine, when rentle pressure is to be made until the whole be returned to its original situation, successively pushing back the last protruded portions; —after which a thick compress, so graduated in size as to adapt itself to the space between the nates, and steeped either in red wine, or in some astringent lotion, as a weak solution of slant, should be bound on the part by means of the T bandage. Should there be much inflammation, fomentations, or the vapour of hot water, should be applied to the parts previous to any attempts at reduction, IJ. If the disease w ise from debility, by the internal and external administration of tonics and astringents ;—the daily affusion of cold water;—lotions of a solution of alum, of sulphate of zinc; —glysters of decoction of galls or logwood;— astringent injec- tions ;—a spirituous infusion of oak-bark with lime-water, as- recommended by Mr. Hey;—constant support by means of the before-described bandage and compress. ENEMA GALLiE. R. Galla: pulveris 3J. Aquse O.jfs. Decoquc ad colaturam Octarium uivum. This injection should be used twice a day.0 i CONDTLOMATOUS EXCRESCENCES. 29J Internally.—Alum,—zinc,—the confectio piperis composita, —and other astringents. If from haemorrhoids, removal of the cause by the means al- ready laid down. When from irritation of the rectum by worms, anthelmintics. —Temporary support by bandage. CONDYLOM ATOUS EXCRESCENCES. Excrescences are sometimes formed about the anus, which, from their figure, obtain the name of fici, aristee, &c. They sometimes grow within the gut itself, but are oftener situated at the verge of the anus.—They vary in size, from that of ordinary warts to that of split garden-beans.—They are also various in colour, figure, and consistence.—Sometimes there is only one or two ; generally, however, all the skin around the anus becomes covered with them. TREATMENT. When they are soft, gentle escharotics will destroy them, as the muriate of ammonia or pulvis sabinse;—the application of tinctura ferri muriati, by means of a camel-hair pencil. The harder kinds are to be removed by nitrate of silver, by ligature, tir by excision.296 IMPERFORATE ANUS. IMPERFORATE ANUS. The anus is not unfroquently found, at birth, quite imperfo- rate, and in some instances closed simply by a thin membrane, in which case the meconium may be distinctly felt a day or two after birth, and in a manner seen shining through it. A slight puncture with a lancet, and the subsequent introduction of a bougie, will in every case be proper: but, more commonly, the imperforate anus is a melancholy occurrence, and seldom admits of remedy; the gut often terminating iii a cul-de-sac, so high up as not to be reached. In other instauces, however, it may be relieved by an OPERATION. This consists in first making a longitudinal incision in the na- tural situation of the anus (the operation being postponed as long as it safely can, that the depending part of the bowel may be distended, and pushed as low down as possible), and afterwards passing up a small trochar, in the usual direction of the bowel, until it shall have entered the extremity of the gut, and the me- conium flow from the canula. A piece of bougie is afterwards necessary to be daily introduced, until the edges of the sore be- come sufficiently callous to prevent a re-union taking place.297 o 5 SYPHILIS. A disease induced by the operation of a specific poison; im- bibed most frequently during the act of coition, not admitting of a natural cure, but only to be removed by the use of mercurv. 1. Primary or local Symptoms. CHANCRE. This is an ulcer induced by the immediate application of the venereal poison, in a fluid state, to some part capable of erosion; it cannot act in a state of vapour.—Pearson. CHARACTER. At its first appearance it resembles a common pimple which has suppurated, having in its centre a vesicle or depression con- taining a small collection of matter, and a slightly inflamed margin;—it soon increases and becomes an ulcer, possessing a peculiar and characteristic appearance ; its surface is white or ash coloured, irregular, concave;—its base hard, thickened, and re- sembling the section of a pea;—its edges are prominent, thick, ragged, arid of an ash colour, and resemble a curtain hanging over the hollow surface of the sore;—it is surrounded with an areola or circumscribed inflammation, and, according to general opinion, differs from other ulcers by its total want of dis- position to heal. Some eminent surgeons, however, think dif- ferently on this point. Mr. Pearson affirms that chancres often heal, and often break out again ; and adds, tliat the healing of the sore proves nothing with respect to the disease. No single298 syphilis. appearance is peculiar to chancre; it is always accompanied by loss of substance from the beginning, but in its aspect is different in different parts. In those covered with cuticle, a crust is formed, either by friction or exposure to air, and covers a foul ulcer. On the pubes its character is that of a creeping ulcer, quietly contaminating the inguinal glands. The seat of chancre is various;—the glans penis,—the pre- puce,—the fraenum,—the scrotum,—the raons veneris. In women, the nymphse,—the clitoris,—the- vagina,—the os uteri. TREATMENT. When discovered soon after its formation, a chancre may be removed by the application of the nitrate of silver, or by a lotion composed of a weak solution of the oxy-muriate of mercury in spirit of wine, or the following: jERUGO CUM HYDRARGYRl SUBMURIATE Pharm. Chin R. iEruginis preparate, Hydrargyri submuriatis, singuloram partes aequales. Fiat pulvis subtilissimus. In cases of longer standing, it should be treated with mercurial dressings,—as ointments composed of nitric-oxyd of mercury, the submuriate of mercury, &c. or the unguentum hydrargyri, with the addition of opium, if the sore be painful. R. Hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi in pulverem subtilissiniuui triti 31J, Cerati 31V. Misce. Fiat unguentum. R. Hydrargyri subinuriutis Jij. Cerati Jj. Misce. Fiat unguentum.299 SYPHILIS, R. Unguent; hydrargyri Jj* Extracti opii pulverisati 3j. Misce. Lotions of a solution of murias hydrargyri, and of the nitrate of mercury, or of nitric acid, or of the sulphas cupvi, or sul- phas zinci. R. Hydrargyri submuriatis 3'ij. Liquoris calcis O. fs. Fiat Iotio, sextis horis applicanda. R. Argeuti nitratis 3j. Aquae distillata; Jir. Solve pro lotione bis in die applicanda. R. Acidi nitrici fluidrachmam, Aqiue distillates §iv. Fiat lotio nocte maneque utenda. While attempts are made by these means to heal the ulcer, the constitution should always be secured from the effects of ab- sorption by the use of mercury, as directed for the general treat- ment of Syphilis. In irritable constitutions, it not unfrequcntly happens that chancres become phagedenic.—In this case the mercury is highly prejudicial, and must be omitted till the objections to its use have ceased; when it must be again resumed; and recourse should be had to, 1st, The external use of opium, with fomentations, and »• lotion composed of a solution of nitric acid;—fermenting poul- tices, the juice of oranges, &c. See Sloughing Ulcer, o &SYPHILIS. The epitkcm of the acetate of lead. EPITHEMA PLUMBI ACETATIS. R. Confectionis rosce Jj- Mellis rosse, Liquoris plumbi acetatis, TinctuTEe opii, aa. 3'ij. Misce. This is much used by the surgeons at Guy's Hospital to pain- ful* and irritable venereal ulcers, and to chancres, when they become so after the application of nitrate of silver. 2d, The internal administration of wine,—opium in large doses,—coniurn,—cinchona. A chancre on the internal prepuce, or glans penis, will fre- quently produce phymosis, which in this case may be distinguish- ed by the absence of any preceding scalding, and by the rapidity with which it has come on. Ulceration of the glans penis will now and then cause serious hemorrhage. The usual means to stop it must be first tried, which will occasionally fail;—the glans is sometimes in so soft a state as not to bear a ligature, which cuts through it; it is then possible that pressure on the bleeding vessel, by a piece of sponge, or tying over it a portion of the sulphate of copper, may succeed; or the use of boiling oil of turpentine, or even actual cautery: should all these and other attempts fail, the penis must be amputated, to save the life of the patient. AMPUTATION OF THE PENIS. This operation becomes necessary in cases of hemorrhage, or uancer, and is a simple operation. An incision must first be made through the shin, at that dis- i mce from the pube's at which it is thought proper to amputate the part; the skin is tin n to be pulled a little backwards townnlsSYPHILIS. 301 the pub'es, and at its retracted margin the corpora cavernosa must be completely divided. The ha-morrhage will be easily stopped by ligature and gentle pressure. During the healing of the wound, a flexible gum catheter should be secured in the urethra, to prevent the irritation and inconvenience which the passage of the urine would otherwise cause. BUBO. An enlargement of an absorbent gland in the groin, owing to the absorption of the venereal virus; mostly, though not al- ways, preceded by chancre.—A bubo, following a chancre, ge- nerally appears in about ten days after it, and sometimes much later. A primary bubo appears about five weeks after infection, and never later than nine weeks. Mr. Pearson. SYMPTOMS. Pain in the groin, accompanied with some degree of hardness and swelling; which continuing to increase, a tumor, equal in size to a pigeon's egg, is formed—If proper measures are not speedily taken, it inflames, becomes of a florid red, is attended with more acute pain, which suffers a remarkable nocturnal exacerbation, and the progress from inflammation to suppuration is usually very rapid. It is distinguished from similar enlargements from other causes,-by being confined to one gland,—by the tendency to inflammation and suppuration,-!,)- being v*,-y generally preceded by chancre,-and by the peculiarity of the attendant pain. Like chancre in irritable or vitiated habits, it sometimes be- comes phagedenic; in which case a form.dable toughing ulcer 13 produced. When combined With scrofula, It is rendered e.xtrcnicly Indo- /3f)2 svrHiLis. lent; often remaining a long time, and enlarging to a, great size, ■without any disposition to suppuration. TREATMENT. In the uiiinflamed state. Mercurial friction;—lotions-of a solution of bydrargyras oxy- muriatus. the inflamed state. Leeches,—cold lotions, as liquor plumbi acetatis dilutus; so- lution of muriate of ammonia in water, with the addition of spirit. Should these be unsuccessful, fomentations and cataplasms. If suppuration ensue, the constant use of fomentations and poultices ;-an early evacuation of the matter through a small opening; and afterwards light dressings, with some appropriate lotion and a bandage. When the skin is diseased, the abscess should be opened with caustic alkali. In an ulcerated bubo, the success of the cure principally depends upon the management of its edges. After inflammation has subsided, or after the process of sup- puration has ceased, recourse must again be had to the use-of mercury. In the sloughing state. The following is much esteemed: UNGUENTUM PLUMBI ACETATIS COMPOSITUM. R. Unguent! cerae Jj. Hydrargyri nitrico-oxydi 3j. Liquoris plumbi acetatis 3). Extracti opii 313. Triturate the soft extract of opium with the nitric oxyd of mercury and liquor of acetate of lead ; after which mix in the ointment of wax, and let the whole be well blended together, See also Sloughing Chancre, and r/iagakiik Ulcer,SYPHILIS. SOS In the indolent or scirrhous state. If suppuration has already commenced, attempts are to be made to accelerate it by hot fomentations,—warm stimulating plasters.—Vide Abscess. If the enlargement possess a scirrhous hardness, and is indis- posed to suppurate, fomentations of hemlock,—sea-water,—sea- bathing,—mercurial applications, as the emplastrum hydrargyri. —See also Enlargements of Absorbent Glands, and Scrofula. II. Secondary or constitutional Symptoms. The constitution may become affected with syphilis, either, 1. By an absorption of the virus, without any evident local effect having been first induced. 2. In consequence of some primary local affection. 3. From the application of the matter to some common sort or wound. SORE THROAT. An inflammation and ulceration of the throat, produced by the absorption of the venereal virus, from whatever source.— It is usually the first effect produced in the constitution.—The time at which it makes its appearance, after infection has been received, varies from five weeks to many months. But it is doubtful whether any species of secondary symptoms are ever more than three or four months in showing themselves. CHARACTER. Ulcers in the fauces, tonsils, uvula, or larynx, having the exact appearance of chancre before described;—circular,—304? SYPHILIS. 5 hollow,—with ragged edges,—surrounded with an areola.—Its surface is covered with a white slough, and it is attended with nocturnal pain.—These characteristics, together with its having most generally been preceded by an obvious local affection, distinguish it from ulcerations of the throat arising from other causes. TREATMENT. The use of mercury, persevered in for seven weeks at least.— Locally, gargles of a weak solution of hydrargyrus muriatus. R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriatis gr. x. Acidi muriatic! gutt. viij. Decocti cinchonae 3viij. Misce. Fiat gargarisma. Gargles of solutions of the nitric and muriatic acids.—The fumes arising from the nitrico-oxydum hydrargyri or sulphure- tuin hydrargyri rubrum, thrown on hot iron, and conveyed to the throat by means of a fumigating machine. When the ulcer is very foul, it should be touched with tiuctura ferri muriatis, or muriatic acid in conjunction with mel rosse, or mel seruginis, or the nitrate of silver. General Treatment of Syphilis. Mercury, so administered as to excite a disposition to sail' tion, and a general increase of the secretions.—It may be VU cither externally, by friction with the unguentum hydrarg upon the inside of the thigh, which is decidedly the best .1 most certain way; or internally, by the use of the pilula 1SYPHILIS. 305 ilrargyri, in pills ot five grains, to be taken riignt and morning. Bysubmuriate of mercury, and oxy-miiiiate, Sec. In the use of mercury, under whatever form, it will be pru- dent to begin with a small quantity, and to increase it gradu- ally, until the patient perceive a copperish taste in his mouth, fetor of breath, and a more than ordinary secretion of saliva ; it should then be diminished, and the quantity should after- wards be so regulated as constantly to preserve a slight saliva- tion, without proceeding to any greater length. In administering mercury there are three things to be ob- served : 1. The quantity to be used. 2. The length of time wdiich the system must be kept under its influence. 3. The different effects it has on the constitution. 1st. Of the quantity, if we employ the ointment.—Unguentum, hydrargyri fortius, to which alone we can confide in secondary symptoms, and which should be, generally speaking, preferred to all: we must use five or six ounces for the most recent chancres;— for the first and milder sorts of secondary symptoms, eight or ten ounces will suffice;—and in cases in which the bones are affected, if will scarcely ever be necessary to exceed twelve or fourteen ounces : though in such cases it is almost impossible to draw a line: it must be left to the surgeon's judgment and experience. In local symptoms :—If the submuriate be used, from two to three grains must be given.—It is best exhibited in pills of two or three grains twice a day.—If the pilube hydrargyri are preferred, half a drachm or two scruples must be taken daily for the space of five or six weeks ; or .should the oxydum hydrargyri be chosen, From 'me to five grains for the same period will be necessary. A306 SYPHILIS. quarter of a grain of opium added to each pill, will RUard tlii bowels from derangement. The oxy-murias bydrargyri, although the most powerful and' rapid in its effect* of all mercurial preparations, must not be re- lied on for the cure of the disease j it is useful as an auxiliary, especially where it is difficult to affect the constitution; its dose is from the eighth to the quarter of a grain ; it is best given thus ♦onibined with opium: R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriatis gr. ij. Acidi muviatici gutt. iij, Tinctura; opii gutt. xl. Aquae cinnamomi Jiij. Misce, et capiat seger cochleare unum vel duo majors tev die. The operation of mercury is promoted by abstinence from- .iigh-seasoned food ; confining the diet to meats of easy diges- tion,—to thin broths,- preparations of sago,—barley, &c— Tegetables,—ripe fruits. Where great difficulty is found in producing the desired effect, the pediluvium, or warm bath, is serviceable. Profuse purging is sometimes the effect of the administration of mercury.—This should be checked by the use of opium. If too copious a saliv ation be produced, a gargle of a weak so- lution of alum;—the internal use of sulphur,—cold air.—If ulceration of the gums become troublesome or extensive, the folr lowing is a good linctus : R. Alumims usti 3fs. Boli Armenia? jj. Mellis despumati, —— oeruginis, ait. Misce. [ 2d. The length of time required for the cure of the disease by 2SYPHILIS. this means, will depend upon its inveteracy.—-In inild cases, from five to six weeks;—in cases of longer standing, and where, the constitution is contaminated, from eight to twelve weeks; and in the advanced and worst stages of the complaint, from twelve to fourteen weeks ; continuing the use of the remedy after the symptoms have some time disappeared. 3d. Of its effects:—Favourable, when it produces a soreness and sponginess of the gums, fetor of breath, and an increased secretion of saliva: this is the most commonly desired effect.—■ An immoderate flow of urine, a great diaphoresis, a wasting of the adipose substance, with restlessness, anxiety, and loss of ap- petite, equally prove that the mercury is producing its due in_- fhience. Care must betaken that these effects are not pushed too far. The patient should not spit more than a pint to a quart ia twenty-four hours ; for it must be remembered, that the saliva- tion, &c. are of no other use than as demonstrating the degree of impression which the remedy is making on the system. The. diminution and gradual disappearance of the disease are of course the most favourable effects of the use of mercury. Unfavourable effects are:—The general health suffering without the symptom, of syphilis beingmitigated ; — dysentery;—diarrhoea;—erythismus; —hypochondriasis ; —dyspepsia; — icterus ; — mania; — haemor- rhage;—phthisis pulmonalis. So soon as any of these are to be apprehended or appear, the mercury must be for a time, or, if ne- cessary, altogether laid aside, and the usual remedies for such complaints adopted. If the general health can be restored, the mercury must be again cautiously resumed, till the disease is. cured. If mercury be laid aside for one week after all its effects have gone off from the mouth, gums, &c. the preceding part of the-JOS S^rillLITIC ERUPTION'. course is lost. The same is the case when the symptoms become aggravated by its use. Tiie mercurial action, during the above period, is to be kept up with great uniformity, until the symptoms wholly disappear, and for a certain time after, which time experience alone can pronounce. Besides mercury, other remedies have been recommended as specifics for the cure of the venereal disease; such are the nitfrio or nitrous acid;—the oxygenated muriate of potash ;—decoctions of the lobelia, astragalus, &c. The efficacy of these has hitherto not sufficiently been esta- blished. In no one instance has the author ever seen the nitric acid, so much extolled by some, cure the venereal disease without the assistance of a tittU mercury. When mercury has been given to excess, and broken down the strength of the sys- tem, and destroyed the tone of the stomach, the nitric acid with bark, or the decoction of the woods, is a valuable remedy, im- proving the appetite, increasing the strength, and causing ulcers that were spreading and with loose and flabby granulations, du- ring the use of mercury, to look healthy, and soon disappear. ERUPTION. When syphilis attacks the skin, it usually assumes the form of a scaly eruption ; and, according to Dr. Willan, most com- monly of lepra vulgaris,-psoriasis guttata,-psoriasis diffusa,— psoriasis gyrata.—The blotches vary in size, from one sixth of an inch to the extent of ludf-a-crown.—Their elevation above the cuticle is sometimes scarcely evident; at others they arc COI> gjclcrably protuberant. The stale or scurf with w hicll they soonSYPHILITIC EHUPTION. 309 become covered, after a short time falls off, and is succeeded by another, for an ulcer is formed, which discharges an acrid fetid matter. This sometimes extends, and becomes a venereal herpes exedena. It is distinguished from every other eruption by its peculiar copper colour,—by being generally accompanied with nocturnal pains,—by not yielding to the usual remedies,—and by being ordinarily preceded by some indisputable mark of the existence of syphilis. TREATMENT. The use of mercury, as before directed ; at the same time em- ploying sudorifics, as antimony united with submurias hydrar- gyri, or pulvis ipecacuanha! compositus, with decoctions of mc- zereon and sarsaparilla. The warm bath every eight or ten days is much recommended to bring off the scabs. Should ulceration take place, lotions of hydrargyria muriatus; —the ungucntum hydrargyri as a common dressing. LOTIO HYDRARGYRI FLAVA. R. Hydrargyri oxy-muriatis 9j. Liquoris calcis O. j. Fiat lotio. LOTIO HYDRARGYRI NIGRA. R. Hydrargyri submuriatis 31J. Liquoris calcis O. j. Misce. This lotion is in very extensive use. Previous to its applica- tion the phial should be well shaken, when a portion of it should be poured on some pieces of lint in a shallow vessel; the clear liquor should then be poured away, which leaves the mercury on the lint, in which way it should be applied.gjQ VERRUCA, Should there be great pain or irritation, the loeal application of opium, in form of lotion, or added to the unguentum hvdrar- gyri, maybe useful; but the ulcers do best with dressing* of the solutions of nitrate of silver, of Bate's water, &c. Unctuous applications arc very seldom advisable. Eruptions require from ten to fourteen ounces of ointment; they are frequently very obstinate :-the best proof of their beurg effectually cured is the site of them becoming white aad de- pressed. VERRUC7E Are small hard tumors of the skin, covered with a thiclv jagged cuticle, and of different shapes; they appear on the pre- puce and glans penis in men, and on the labia pudendi, and upper and inside of the thigh in women. They are frequently venereal. Condylomata are excrescences, also often venereal, ansmg ahoutthe anus and perineum; they are sometimes very large, and discharge an offensive ichor. TREATMENT. Warts will not disappear on the internal use of mercury : con- dylomata sometimes will, without local applications ■ its use, 08 directed above, is requisite, howwer, when they arise from vene- teal taint. Warts, when pensile, are best removed by ligature; but they may be cut off with scissars, or destroyed by the nitrate of silver or caustic potass. Fumigations, mineral acids, unguentum sa- hiivje, &c. are used by some practitioners.SYPHILITIC OZ.ENA. 31 i ULCERS. Sores appearing in the logs and other parts of the body, pro. tfuccd by the operation of the venereal poison. CHARACTER. They are the most irregular of all ulcers; seldom forming one continued ulceration, but generally composed of a number of small, distinct, circular excavations, separated from -each other by a thin bar of skin, the edges of which are jagged, and project over the adjacent sore. A venereal ulcer is generally surrounded by an areola of a copper colour, and often by a ve- nereal eruption. The discharge is at first a thin sanies ; after- wards a gelatinous, whitish, yellow, or greenibh matter. It is accompanied with nocturnal pains, and other characteristics of the venereal disease. TREATMENT. Gentle salivation, continued until the ulcers have completely lieaied, and other symptoms disappeared. The use of mercurial and other applications, as recommended Tor chancre. I.'" the ulcers are of an indolent nature, the following is a good Application: CERATUM HTDRARCYUI S U EMURIATIS. R. Hydrargyri submuriatis 3]. Cerati cetacei gyj, Misce. OZ.ENA. SYMPTOMS. After considerable previous deep-soafed pain in (he nose, a discharge not purulent, but thin, sanious, fetid, and intermixed312 SYPHILITIC OPHTHALMIA. With bloody sloughs.—It is attended with a nocturnal exatcr- bation of pain, and is generally accompanied with some other obvious syphilitic affection.-^ Caries of the ossa nasi is some- times the cause, sometimes the consequence, of the disease.— It not unfrequently produces fistula lacbrymalis. T KEATMEXTr Besides the use of mercury, lotions injected into the nose by means of a syringe, formed of a solution of oxymurias hydrar- gyri in lime-water, or a dilute solution of nitric acid. Fumigations, of rcthiops mineral, cinnabar, cic. as recom- mended for ulceration of the throat. OPHTHALMIA. A severe inflammation of the eye is sometimes the conse- truenee of the venereal taint, and if proper remedies are not duly administered, usually terminates in an opacity of the cornea.—It is distinguished by not giving way to the use of common remedies;—by being attended by nocturnal pain; — by the eye being less sensible to impressions of light ;—by the disease having been preceded, or being accompanied, by other marks of syphilis. TREATMENT. If much inflammation be present, this should be diminished by the application of leeches to the temples,—sedative cnllyria, &c. as in common ophthalmia.—After which, the internal use ot hydrargyrus oxy-muriatus, and mercurial tiiction, as before directed,—and of a watery or vinous solution of opium, applied topically.313 PAINS. When the constitution has long been contaminated by the venereal poison, distressing pains take place in the bones of dif- ferent parts of the body, more especially of the leg, the arms, and head. They are distinguished from pains induced by other causes- by being attended with a nocturnal exacerbation;-by being seated, when occurring in the extremities, in the middle of cylmdrical bones ;-by being very generally preceded or accom- panied with oflier symptoms of the venereal disease. TREATMENT. The long-continued use of mercury, as before directed. Sudorifics; the pulvis ipecacuanhas compositus.-antimony umted with opium.-submuriate of mercury with antimony {-a* the same time using decoctions of mezereon.-sarsapwill.,- guaiacum. The warm bath;—the occasional use of opium. NODE. A swelling most frequently in the periosteum or cylindrical bones ; and on the bones of the cranium. SYMPTOMS. After deep-seated, obtuse, and di.stres.ing pain, attended with a nightly exacerbation, a prominent rising upon the surface of » bone;—hard to the touch,—sometimes insensible, and unat- tended by discolouration of the integuments; at others consi- derably inflamed and sore.314- NODE. Suppuration sometimes takes place within the bone;—aper- tures are formed by the ulcerative process, through which the fluid escapes;—the tumor, before hard, is now soft to the touch, and increased in size, and the fluctuation of a fluid be- tween the periosteum and the bone is perceptible.—The integu- ments at length burst, when, upon examination, holes are often found communicating with the interior part of the enlarged por- tion of the bone, which is hollow, and surrounded with a thick deposit of ossific matter, or exostosis. TREATMENT. If there be much inflammation and pain, occasiotaal' bleed- ing by leeches, and blisters, will be useful—See Inflammation of Bone. , If it be insensible to the touch, the emplastrum hydrargyri. Should suppuration ensue, a free incision,—and afterwards the tise of topical mercurial remedies. Mercury is to be gradually introduced into the system by fric- tion, and the mercurial action kept up for some time after the total disappearance of the symptoms, as before directed; at the same time the patient must constantly take the decoctum sarsa- parillas, or the decoctum sarsaparilhe compositum. Nodes generally disappear gradually as the course proceeds :— when they are very painful, it is advised to divide down to the bone, separate the periosteum a little from it, and dress the wound with dry lint till suppuration comes on. If the bone be not pre- viously injured, this will not excite exfoliation. When the pa- tient can bear pressure without pain, there is not much fear ot a relapse, although the node remains,315 AMPUTATION. Amputation becomes necessary when a member has been ren- dered useless by disease, or when the constitution is in danger of suffering by its long continuance. The diseases most frequently requiring this operation are, extonsive contusions and lacerations;—incurable ulcers;—he- morrhage from vessels which cannot be secured by ligature, as the posterior tibial artery;—extensive mortifications;—gun- shot wounds of joints, or compound fracture by gun-shot;— scrofulous affections of the joints;—caries of bones;—bad fractures. OF THE FINGERS. At the joint connected with the metacarpal bone. 1. An incision is to be made on each side, between the fingers, and extended obliquely upwards to the joint. 2. A circular one through the remaining integuments and muscles. S. A cautious separation of the finger at the joint. 4. The fingers, before contiguous to that removed, are to be brought together and secured by bandage ; by which means the hemorrhage will be restrained, union by the first intention will be effected, and deformity in great measure prevented. At the lower joints. A circular incision is to be made below the joint, and the integuments being retracted, the operation is to be finished as in amputation at the wrist, v aAMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 31G AT THE WRIST. The tourncquet being properly applied, an incision is to be made, 1st, Through the integuments, about one inch below the joint; after which they are to be drawn up by an assistant. 2dly, Through the tendons and into the joint; beginning the incision from the side connected with the radius. Sdly, The arteries are to be secured by ligature, and the inte- guments brought together, and united by adhesive plaster. OF THE TARSUS. The tournequet being applied, as in all amputations, in the lower extremity (see the following), a circular incision is to be made opposite the junction of the tarsal and metatarsal bones; and the divided integuments are to be drawn up by an assistant.— The second incision should be through the tendons and muscles. —The tarsal bones arc now to be carefully cleared from any adhering muscular substance, and to be divided with the saw : saving as much of the foot as the disease for which the operation is performed will admit of.—After the arteries have been secured, the integuments are to be brought over the extremity of the bones, and united by the first intention. OF THE THIGH. The most proper part for the application of the tournequet in (his, and in all other amputations of the lower extremity, is about the middle of the thigh, where the artery in its course passes near to the bone.—The pad should be placed immediatelyAMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 317 above the vessel, and firmly secured in its situation by tighten- ing the screw on the other side of the limb. Should the limb be at all cedematous, it will be necessary, after the tournequet has been on a minute or two, to tighten it again ; as, by the pressure, the fluid underneath it'passing into the surrounding cellular sub- stance, will loosen the instrument. Care must be taken in such an instance, that it be not again slackened after the first inci- sion, from the escape of the fluids. The assistant to whom the management of the tournequet is intrusted should be one, on whom thorough dependence can be placed. After this has been adjusted, the limb being supported by an assistant, a circular incision should be made through the inte- guments, immediately above the knee-joint (see Plate XI. fig. l); and any adhesions that may impede their retraction having been separated, they are to be drawn up as high as possible (see fig. 2), when a second incision should sever either the whole of the mus- ■cles of the thigh, or the loose muscles only; leaving those at- tached to the bone to be divided by a third. The quantity of integuments dissected should be fully sufficient to cover the face of the stump, as it is better to save too much than too little. The bone now exposed, is to be cleared of its periosteum, and any portions of muscle that may still adhere. The muscles and integuments are next to be drawn up by the assistant, and se- cured by some folded linen (see fig. 3). The bone is then to be di- vided with the saw, at that part where it is connected with the retracted integuments : should any spiculse or projecting points remain, these are to be removed. The next step is to secure the arteries; and this should be carefully done by means of the tenaculum and ligature.—A flan- nel or linen roller is then to be passed around the thigh, to pre- y 3SIS AMPUTATION 0* THE THIGH. vent the retraction of the muscles; after which the integument* are to be brought together, and preserved in contact by means of adhesive straps ; suffering the ligatures to hang from the wound. (See fig. 4.) The stump is to be covered with a pledget of soft tow or lint, which should be preserved in its situation by a circular roller w ith cross slips, and a broad piece of linen or cap. The patient may now be conveyed to bed ; where the stump should be laid upon a soft pillow, and protected from the bed- clothes by a hooped frame.—It will also be proper to administer an opiate, and to suffer the tournequet to remain loosely attached to the limb, as a means of speedily restraining any hamorrhage that may accidentally occur. At the expiration of a -week the dressings may be removed, and the ligatures withdrawn4.PLATE XI.319" AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XI. Fig. 1. The first incision, by which the common integuments and cel- lular substance are divided, and the fascia covering the muscles, exposed. Fig. 3. The integuments dissected and turned back, to make way for the second circular incision. Fig- 3. The division of the soft parts completed, folds of linen ap - plied across the face of the stump, the whole is drawn back by an assistant, so as to facilitate the division of the bone sufficiently high up. Fig. 4. The appearance of the stump, and the disposition of the liga- tures, when the integuments are brought together by the adhe- sive straps. Fig. 5 Exhibits the application of the circular roller and cross bands, which make up the dressings of the stump. Fig. fa- Shows the course of the incisions in amputation at the shoul- der joint.AMPUTATION OP THE LE<5< 320 OF THE LEG. The toumeqnet being properly applied, and the leg sup- ported as before directed, an incision is to be made through the integuments, about six inches below the knee; and when the adhesions which connect them to the fore part of the tibia and fibula have been separated, they are to be drawn up by an as- sistant. The muscles of the leg are next to be completely divided by a circular incision, close to the retracted integuments. The object is now to divide all that connecting substance be- tween the two bones: this is to be done by means of a sharp- pointed double-edged knife made for this purpose.—After which both the bones are to be sawn through, by the same action of the saw, at a distance from the knee equal to the breadth of the "hand.—The remaining part of the operation will be exactly simi- lar to the before described. OF THE HUMERUS. in amputations of the superior extremity, the most convenient part for the application of the tournequet is about midway be- tween the shoulder and the elbow joint; where it is to be adjusted 46 before described, with the pad over the principal artery. The first incision is to be begun about an inch above the joint, and the operation concluded precisely as in the thigh. OF THE FORE-ARM. As in the leg before the knee,AMPUTATION AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. 321 AT THE SHOULDER JOINT. The best method for performing this operation is the fol- lowing. The patient being placed in a good light, and conve- niently for the operator, the subclavian artery is to be secured where it passes over the first rib, by the pressure of a firm com- press in the hands of an assistant. The first incision is brought from the point of the acromion process forwards and downwards, and is carried deep down, through the flesh, the muscular arteries of which must be im- mediately secured by ligature. (See Plate XII. fig. 6.) The second incision is a counterpart to the first; it is earned backwards round the limb, and terminates by the dividing the tendon of the pectoral muscle : here again the large arteries that occur must be taken up. The capsule of the joint is next to be divided, and the head of the humerus turned out from its socket. The limb is then to be entirely removed; and the axillary artery somewhat separated from the surrounding nerves, brought forward with a tena- culum, and securely tied with a strong ligature; when the flaps being brought together, and supported by the proper band- ages, the operation is finished. r ftDISTORTIONS. Distortions cither in the form or position of parts occasionally arise; they may depend on one or other of the following cir- cumstances : i. Congenital deformity in the figure of a bone. II. Permanent muscular contraction. in. Disease, connected with caries and destruction of bone., iv. Mollities ossium. The bones are very rarely found changed from their proper shape in the foetal state. By far the most frequent kind of dis- tortion is that In which one or both feet are defective, generally turning inward and upward; and even in these cases the com- plaint is derived only from the muscular parts having been set and adapted to the peculiar position of the limbs in utero. Distortion from caries is generally observed to take place in the bones of the spine, and occurs most commonly in early youth; whereas mollities ossium is an affection of bone peculiar to the adult age. •treatment. When in infancy the bones of the limbs have any unnatural iurvature, very little can be expected from the aid of instru- ments ; for the surrounding parts are yet too soft to admit of any material degree of pressure being made, and even the operation of such pressure, were it established, might prove injurious du- ring the incipient advances of ossification. Where tlie tarsal or metatarsal cartilages are malformed, the event will tit generally unfortunate, notwithstanding every me- shanical assistance that can be afforded. The most frequent323 DISTORTIONS. kind of distortion is that which is the most capable of being re- moved. The form of the foot is perfect, but the position is pre- ternatural, the sole of the foot being turned inwards, or even upward. In this state the foot may be gently but firmly brought round into its natural position, although the contracted muscles do not at first give way without producing considerable pain. The instrument best adapted for this purpose is a very thin and light plate of steel, cut, and turned to the proper figure, and covered with leather. (See Plate XII. fig. 4 and 5.) This is to be applied on the inner ancle, and the sole of the foot is to be set against the plate of the instrument, and bound down mode- Tately firm, with a broad tape, to be continued upward, as a bandage upon the leg. By this assistance the muscles will gra- dually lose their disposition to excessive contraction, and in the course of two or three months the instrument will be unneces- sary. For the treatment of curved spine, and ruollities ossium, sec those diseases.DISTORTIONS. 324 EXPLANATION OF PLATE XII. Fig. 1. Shows the manner in which the pins are passed in the opera- tion for hare lip. Fig. 2 Exhibits the appearance of the wound when the edges are set together and retained in contact by the ligatures, completing the operation. Fig. 3. An instrument for binding down the foot in distortion from muscular contraction. a. The flat plate upon which the sole of the foot is placed. b. The elastic spring that is placed against the inside of the leg. Fig. 4 Shows the usual appearance of that kind of distortion to ■which the above-mentioned instrument is applicable. Fig. 5. The appearance of a leg on which is applied the instrument recommended in rupture of the tendo Achilhs. Fig. 6. The bandage for fractured patella. The leather straps, a and b, are to be buckled round the joint, the one above, the other below the fractured pieces of the bone, so that the cu hions, c and d, shall lie exactly against the di- vided portions of the pate lla, which may then be brought as near to each other as the surgeon thinks proper, by tightening the re- maining straps, e; f, g,A OR EXPLANATION OF TERMS. A. Abscess (Abscessus, us, rn. from abs, and cedo, to retire). A collection of pus in the cellular or adipose structure. Amaurosis (Amaurosis, is, f. from a^a^ttms, obscurity). A loss of sight without any visible injury to the eye. Anasarca (Anasarca, <e, f. from am, along, and aag, the flesh). Dropsy of the cellular membrane. Anchylosis (Anchylosis, is, f. from *<yXuXoAnx», to bend). A stiff joint. Aneurism (Aneurisma, atis, n. from avvgwu, to dilate). A pre- ternatural dilatation of an artery. Anthrax (Anthrax, acis, m. avOfaf, a burning coal). A car- buncle. Antipiilogistics (Antiphlogistica remedia, from a*1i, against, and <p/ oyoan, inflammation). A term applied to those medi- cines, plans of diet, and other circumstances, winch tend to oppose inflammation. Aphtha (Aphtha, arum, f, from wpQu, the thrush). The thrush.GLOSSARY. B. BronchocSle (Bronckocele, cs, f. from QpiW* the wyplpe' and MM, a tumor). The Derbyshire neck j-a tumor formed by an enlargement of the thyroid gland. Bbonchotomt (Bronchotomia, a, f. from 0/>o7Xof, *ne wind* pipe, and re/*v«, to cut). The operation of opening the wind- pipe, or trachea. Bubo (Bubo, Bnis, m, from (30u6«v, the groin-; because they most frequently happen in that part). A swelling of a lymph- atic gland. Bubonocele (Bubonocele, es, f. from the groin, and MM), a tumor). An inguinal rupture. Calculus (Calculus, i, m.). A stone. Concretions in the- urinary bladder, gall-bladder, &c. are termed calculi. Cancer (Cancer, trie, m. from the term being applied by the ancients to tumors accompanied with large blue veins, re- sembling crabs-claws). A painful, hard, indolent tumor of a part which terminates in the foulest ulcer. Caries (Caries, ei, I). Rottenness or ulceration.of the bones. Cataract (Catm-acta, «■> f.. from xr^n, to confound or disturb; because the sense of vision is confounded, if not de- Btaoyed). An.opacity of the crystalline lens that obscures the sight. Cicatrix (Cicatrix, Ids, f. from cicatrico, to skin). A scar. CiacociLE (Circocele, cs, f. from x^os, varix, or a dilatation of ft. vein, and mM>, a tumor). A swelling of the testicle and spermatic cord from a varicose state of the veins.GLOSSARY. 327 Condyloma (Condyloma, Stis, n. from xovSuXor, a tubercle or knot). Wart-like excrescences, which appear about the anus and pudenda of both sexes. D. Diagnosis (Diagnosis, is, f. from Siajivucrxa, to discern). The science winch points out the signs by which a disease maybe distinguished. Diathesis (Diathesis, is, f. from habnp.,, to dispose). A tendency in the body to a particular disease : thus, in a putrid fever there is the septic diathesis, or a putrid tendency; in inflammatory fever, an inflammatory tendency, Sea. Discutients (Discutientia , from disciitio, to shake in pieces). Substances which possess a power of repelling or resolving tumors. Dysubia (Dysuria, <e, f. from 3W, difficuit) and apuy> urine^ Difficulty and pain, in discharging urine. Emollients (Emollientia; from emollio, to soften). Those substances which possess a power of relaxing the living ani- mal fibre, without producing that effect from any mechanical action. EmphysEma (Emphysema, Stis, n. from wQvaotu, to inflate). Air in the cellular membrane. EmhyIma (Empyema, Stis, ri. from ty, within, and ™0/, pus)i A collection ot pus in the cavity of the thorax. Enterocele (Entvrocele, es, f. from u%(o,, an intestine, and xnXT,, a tumor). A rupture formed by a protrusion of iutes- Vine,.g2 GLOSSARY. Entebo-EPIPLOCELE (from rfepo*, an intestine, t*,*Xoo,r, the epiploon, and a tumor). A rupture formed by the pro- trusion of part of an intestine, with a portion of the epi- ploon. Enuresis (Enuresis, is, f. from negti, to make water). An involuntary flow of urine. Epiflocele (Epiplocele, es, f. from E«**0ov, the omentum, and xwad, a tumor). An omental hernia. Epistaxis (Epistaxis, is, f. from im^u, to distil from). Bleeding at the nose. Escharotics (Escharotica; from to scab over). Caustics. Those substances which possess a power of destroy- ing the texture of the solids of the animal body, to which they are directly applied. Excrescence (Excrescentia, a, f. from excresco, to grow). Any preternatural formation of flesh. Exomphalos (Exomphalus, i, m. from if, out, and o^paXof, the navel). An umbilical hernia. Exostosis (Exostosis, is, f. from i%, and ooftoir, a bone). A morbid enlargement or hard tumor of a bone. Fistula (Fistula, <s, f. quasi fusula; from /undo, to pour out). A long and sinuous ulcer that has a narrow opening, and sometimes leads to a larger cavity. Fracture (Fractwa, a, I. from frango, to break). A solu- tion of a bone into two or more fragments. Fungus (Fungus, £. m.). Troud flesh. A morbid growth of flesh upon an ulcer. Furuncueus (Furuiicithis, at, from/wo, to rage, So named 4GLOSSARY. 329 from its heat and Inflammation before it suppurates). An in- flammatory tumor of a subcutaneous gland. G. Ganglion (Ganglion, i, n. from yafyho*, a knot). An encyst- ed tumor formed in the sheath of a tendon, and containing a fluid like the white of an egg. Gangrene (Gangranta, a-, f. from fatw, to feed upon). A mortification of any part of the body, before endowed with vitality. Gonorrhoea (Gonorrhoea, ee, f. from <jw*i, semen, and fro, to flow; from an erroneous supposition of the ancients that it was a seminal flux). A preternatural flux from the urethr*. or vagina. Granulation. A healthy growth of flesh on a sore. H. Hematocele (Hematocele, es, f. from a,/**, blood, and x„X», a tumor). A collection of blood in the tunica vaginalis, or in the cellular membrane of the scrotum. Hemorrhage (Hamorrhagia, w, f. from ai/*«, blood, and $%1*vfAt, to break out). A bleeding or rupture of a blood-ves- sel, the blood flowing therefrom. Hemorrhois (Hcemorrhois, idia, f. from <ttju,otfoit, a flux of blood). The piles. Hectic (from efir, habit). A term applied to a fever that is attended with evening exacerbations, and slight remissions in the morning, and which reduces the strength and causes the body to waste.330 GLOSSARY. Hernia (Hernia, w, f. from \flt, a branch, beeause it protrude, forwards), A rupture or protrusion of a part of any vucus from one of the circumscribed cavities of the body. Hernia congenita (so called, because it is as it were born with the person). A species of ReVnia, wherein the intestine or , omentum adheres to the testicle. Hordeolum (Hordeolum, i, n. diminutive of hordeum). A tu- mor in the margin of the eyelid, resembling in some respect a barley-corn. Hydahthrus (Hydartkm, t m. from W«p, water, and *flt»t a joint). A white swelling of a joint. Hydrocele (Hydrocele, es, f. from M»P, water, and xnX*, a tumor). Dropsy of the scrotum. Hydrothorax (Hydrothorax, aeis, m. from water, and $aiot%, the chest). Dropsy of the chest. Indication (Indicate, oms, f. from uidico, to shew). That which demonstrates in a disease what ought to be done. Inflammation (Inflammatio, onis, f. fvom inflammo, to burn). A disease characterized by increased heat, redness, and tume- faction. IschuuIa (Ischuria, a>, f. from to restrain, and «fov, the urine). A suppression of urine. Lithotomy (Lithotomia, from Xi9or, a stone, and ti/avm, tut). The operation of cutting a stone from the bladder.GLOSSARY. 331 M. Mastodynia (Mastodynia, ee, f. from /x^os, a breast, and oSuyn, pahi). Inflammation of the breast of women. Maturation (Maturatio, onis, f. from nvaturo, to make ripe). The process which succeeds inflammation, by which pus it collected into an abscess. Meliceris (Meliceris, idis, f. from /u.l\i, honey, and xnfw> wax). A tumor that contains a substance like honey. MollTties ossium (Mollities, ei, f. from mollis, soft). A dis- ease of the bones, -wherein they can be bent without fractur- ing them. N. N/Evi materni (Ntevus, i, m. Heb.). Mother's marks. Necrosis (Necrosis, is, f. from ywpoa, to destroy). The dry gangrene. A species of mortification, in which the parts be- come dry, insensible, and black, without any previous inflam- mation^ O. (Edema (CEdema, Stis, n. from oiSeu, to swell). A dropsical swelling of the flesh. Ophthalmia (Ophthalmia, <s, f. from o$>9a\<*of, the eye). In- flammation of the eye. Oz^na (Ozarna, a, f. from o§«, to smell). A malignant ulcer in the nostrils. P. ParXcentesis (Paracentesis, is, f. from itapoiKtvriu, to pierce through). The operation of tapping or drawing water from the cavities of the body.332 GLOSSARY* Paeaphymosis (Paraphimosis, is, f. from vat*, about' and V/mu, to bend). A permanent contraction of the foreskin behind the glans penis, so as to denudate the glans penis and strangulate it. Paronychia (Paronychia, ts, f. from vapa, about, and orv?, the nail). Awhitloe, or whitlow. Pathognomic (Pathognomics; from iraSos, a disease, and yinunMi, to know). A term given to those symptoms which are peculiar to a disease. Pernio (Pernio, mis, m.). A chilblain. Phlegmon (Phkgmone, es, f. from px.yu), to burn). An in- flammatory tumor. Phagedenic (Phagedenicus; from ^ilatva, an ulcer that jeats or con-odes rapidly). A foul ulcer, that spreads rapidly. Phymosis (Phymosis, is, f. from Qi^ou, to bend). A contrac- tion of the foreskin, so that it cannot be drawn back over the glans penis. Polypus (Polypus, i, vel podis, m. from woXw, many, and was, a foot; from its sending off many ramifications, like the legs of a polypus). A fleshy substance that grows in the nose and other parts. Prognosis (Prognosis, is, f. from vpo, before, and yumirxti, to know). The judgment of the event of a disease by particular symptoms. Prolapsus (Prolapsus, vs, m.). A protrusion or falling down of any part within itself, as when the lower bowel falls down and is inverted by passing through a part of its own canal. Pterygium (Pterygium, i, n. v1tpv%, a wing). An excrescence growing upon the inner canthus of the ey*. Pus (Pus, uris, n. pi. pura). Matter. A secretion from ulcers and into abscesses, that resejnbles cream in appearance.GLOSSARY. R. Ranula (Ranula, a-, f. from rana, a frog). A tumor under Oie tongue, supposed by the ancients to make the person croak like a frog. S. Sarcoma (Sarcoma, a/is, n. from aa.(%, flesh). A fleshy ex- crescence. Scirrhus (Scirrhm, i, m. from «i//or, a primitive in Greek). A conversion of a part into a hard indolent tumor, not readily suppurating. Scrofula (Scrofula, a, f. from scrofula, a swine; because this animal is said to be much subject to a similar disorder). The king's evil. A disease of the lymphatic glands. Sedatives (Sedativa; from sedo, to ease or assuage). Those medicines which diminish the animal energy without destroy- ing life. Specifics. Such remedies as have an infallible efficacy in the cure of disorders. Sphacelus (Sphacelus, i, m.). A mortification of any part. Steato-.ma (Stcatoma, atis, n. from Tiap, suet). An encysted tumor, the contents of which are like suet. Stimulants (Stimulantia s from stimulo, to stir up). Medi- cines which excite the animal energy. Strangury (Stranguria, *>, f. from w|, a drop, and „,„, urine). A difficulty of making water. Styptics (Stypticu, a; f. svpU) (o astringc). Those substances which possess a power of stopping hamiorrhages. Suppuration (Suppuratio, onis, f. from suppuro, to suppurate). The formation of pus in phlegmonous tumors.334; GLOSSARY. Sympath* (from av/Avaw to suffer together, to sympathize). Consent of parts. Syphilis (Syphilis; from Syphilis, the name of a shepherd who fed the (locks of King Akithous, who, proud of their number and beauty, insulted the Sun; as a punishment for which, fable relates, that this disease was sent on the earth: or from cuphos, filthy). The venereal disease. T. Tetanus (Tetanus, t, m. from r£i»», to stretch). Spasm, with rigidity of the part under the spasm. TmciUAsis (Trichiasis, is, f. from rpi%, a hair). A disease of the eyelashes, iu which they are turned inwards. U. Ulcer (Ulcus, eris, n. from eXx«, a sore). A purulent solif, tion of continuity of the soft parts of an animal body. V. Varicocele (Varicocele, es, f. from vari.v, a distended vein, and xnJwt, a tumor). A swelling of the veins of the scrotum or spermatic cord. Vesicatouies (Vcsicatorin; from vesica, a bladder, because they raise a bladder). Substances which increase the action of the vessels in those jwrls of the surface of the body to which they are applied, and cause a vesication or blister. Vomica (Vomica, a-, f.). An abscess ; generally appMed to suppuration of the lungs.INDEX. A. page Abdomen', tapping of, 199 , paracentesis of, ib. Abscess — 9 of the eye — 158 of the lungs — 196 1 of bones — 227 Absorbent glands, en- largement of — 103 Adder, bite of — 40 Adhesion — 9 JErugo cum calomelane 299 Air in the chest — 19S Alimentary canal, diseases of — — — 189 Aluminous cataplasm -— 149 Amaurosis — — 151 Ammonia fomentation 73 Amputation — — 315 of the penis 300 > of the lingers 315 ■ at the wrist ' ib. of the tarsus ib. Of the thigh il). 1 oi' the leg 320 —— of the arm ib, ■ of the fore-arm ib. -of the shoulder 321 Anasarca of the scrotum 280 Ancle, dislocation of — 225 Aneurism — — 106 — , varicose — 113 Page Aneurism, diffused — 112 , false — ib. Animation, suspended 194 Anthrax — —91 Antrum of Highmore, diseases of — 177, 178 Anus, diseases of — 288 , excrescences of 295 , imperforate — 192 Aphtha — — 182 Apple poultice — 71 Application of a truss 119 Arscnias antimonii — 75 B. Balsammn Peruvianuni cum fo!le — — 170 Beer poultice — — m Belly, tapping of — 199 Benign ulcer — —; go Bite of the viper — 39 of the rattlesnake ib. of the adder — 40 of insects -— ib. of serpents — ib. Bites <>f rabid animals 39 Bladder, stone in — 243 Bleeding from the nose 1 74 piles — — S88 Blind piles — — jb. Blister issue — — 53INDEX. Blood in the chest in the joints — Blood-letting — — , consequen- ces of — — , topical — . in the fore- _ in the neck in the tem- poral artery — — in the foot Boil — — — Bones, diseases of — , inflammation of ——-, abscess of —■ , mortification of Bougie, introduction of Brain, injuries of — , concussion of — , compression of , inflammation of Breast, diseases of — , inflammation of — , cancer of — , extirpation of Bronchocele — — Bronehotomy — — Bubo — — — Burns — — — Page 197 206 51 54 57 51 53 ib. ib. 88 226 ib. 227 ib. 272 134 ib. 136 142 201 ib. ib. 203 101 195 301 81 C. Calculus in the bladder 244 — , salivary — 186 in the kidney 244 Camphire, caustic oil of 161 Capsular ligaments, dis- .ases of — — 211 Cancer -— — 103 I'age Cancer of the antrum 178 of the eye — 165 of the lip — 180 of the tongue — 185 of the breast — 201 of the penis — 275 Cancerous ulcer — 74 Carbuncle — — 91 Caries of bones — 227 of the spine — 229 Carnatic snake pill — 45 Carrot poultice — 71 Castration — — 285 Cataplasma effervescens 17 —— dauci — 71 aluminis — 149 rosae — ib. plunibi acetatis commune 4 10 11 16 16 17 ib. 63 71 ib. — — conii — 73 mali compo- situm — .— 149 soda: muriatis 105 sulpliatis 147 lini — — bynes — —^ cerevisiae — fermenti — carbonis — digitalis — —- acetosum — mali maturi Cataract — — Caustic bougie — oil of camphire Causticum opiatum — commune cum opio — — — Cerate of bemlock — Ceratum conii — — 152 271 161 284 234 64 ib.INDEX. Page Ceratum calaminx cum acetate plumbi — 83 — plumbi composi- tum — — 86 mellis cum tere- binthina — — 91 Chancre — — 297 Charcoal poultice — 17 Chest, diseases of — 196 ■ , wounds of — 24 , blood in the — 197 , air in — — 198 , water in — 198 , tapping the — ib. Chilblain " — — 89 Chyli receptp.cu.Inni, wounds of — — 31 Cilia, inversion of — 161 Circocele — — 281 Clavicle, dislocation of 218 , fracture of — 2.33 Club-foot — — 323 Collyrium plumbi acetatis 146 cum carnphor.v — — ib. ammoniac ace- tatis cum opio — ib. opii cum carn- phora — — 147 acidi acetici 14 8 r.iiimoniiE ace- tatis camphoratum — 148 zinci sulphatis ib. zinci sulphatis cum camphorn — 14.9 Compound fracture — 242 Compression of the brain 136 Concretion of the eyelids 163 Concussion of the brain 134 Confectio cumini — 64 tcrebk'tbinae 267 Page Confectio sulphuris — 289 piperis compo- site — — — 290 Congenital hernia — 129 Constitutional vitiated ul- cers — — 70 Contagious ulcer — 79 Contraction of the oeso- phagus — — I89 Contused wounds — 35 Contusions — — 93 Corns — .— — 98 Couching, operation of 153 Cremor plumbi acetatis 5 Crural hernia — — 129 Cumin confection — 64 Cupping — — 57 Cutting the tongue — 184 D. Deafness of old people 173 Decoctum pro fomento 8 ma! vie compo- situm — — ib. quercfts — 15 Deficiency of Max in the ear — — — 171 Derbyshire neck — 101 Diffused aneurism — 112 Disease of the hip-joint 212 Diseases of the eye — 144 of the ear — lfio of the nose — 174 of the lips — 179 of the mouth 1 82 of the aliment- ary canal — — 189 of the respira- tory organs ■— ijxjl —■ of the chest — 196INDEX. Page Diseases of the joints 205 . of the breast 201 —— of the urinary and genital organs — 244 ■ about the anus 288 of the bones 26'6' Dislocations — — 216 Dislocation of the lower jaw ib. of the head 217 of the spine 218 — of the clavicle ib. " ■ of the humerus 219 of the radius 220 — of the ulna ib. of the wrist 221 of the hip — 222 of the patella 224 of the tibia ib. of the ancle 225 Distortions — — 322 Division of the parotid ductlSfe' Dropsy of the eye — 164 Duct, parotid, division of 186 E. Ear, diseases of — 169 , inflammation of — ib. , suppuration of — ib. , accumulation of wax in — — — 170 ■ , deficiency of wax in 171 , polypus of — 172 , atony of the mus- cles or nerves of — ib. —, extraneous bodies in 173 —, imperforate — 173 Effervescent cataplasm 16 Effusion — — - 9 Embrocatio saponis cum ammonia — — 94 camjihorae tomposita — — ib Page Embrocatio ammonia; ace- tatis — — — 94 ammonix mu- riatis — — 210 Emplastrum euphorbii 99 ammoniaci 209 ammoniaci cum conio ■—> — ib. Empyema — — 196 Encysted tumors — 99 Enema tabaci — — 128 opii — — 246 terebinthince — 246 ainyb cum opio 254 gallee — — 294 Eneuresis — — 254 Epistaxis — — 174 Epithema plumbi acetatis 300 Eruption, venereal — 308 Erysipelatous inflammation 5 Eustachian tube, closing of 171 Excrescence of the eye 158 Exfoliation — 227 Exomphalos — 132 Exostosis — 230 External piles 288 Extraction of cataract 155 Extraneous bodies in the earl 73 Eye, diseases of 144 , inflammation of ib. , films of — 156 , abscess of 158 , ulcer of — 159 , fungus of 160 , gaping — 163 , dropsy of 164 , protrusion of ib. , cancer of 165 , specks of 156 , excrescence of 158 Eyeball, wounds of 166 Eyelids, irouuds of 156TSOEX. Page Eyelids, concretion of 16'3 ———j retortion of. ib. F. False aneurism — 112 Fascia, inflammation of 55 Femoral hernia — 129 Femur, fracture of — 240 Fibula, fracture of — 236' Films of the eye — 156 Fingers, amputation of 315 Fistula lachrymalis — 166 in perineo — 260 in ano — 291. Fomentum conii — 12 papaveris — ib. ammoniifi cum eamphora — — 73 Fore-arm, amputation of 320 Fox-glove poultice — 63 Fracture — — 231 , compound — 242 of the nose — 232 of the lower jaw ib. of the clavicle 233 of the ribs — 234 of the scapula ib. —' of the humerus 235 of the radius 236 of the ulna — ib. of the os femoris ib. of the patella 239 of the olecranon 240 of the tibia — ib. of the fibula 240,241 Fungus cerebri — 1 11 of the eye — 160 Furunculus — — 88 G. Gall-bladder, wounds of 31 Ganglion — — 108 Gangrene — 13 Gapiug eye — 163 Gargarisma acidi muriatici 182 soda; boratis 1S2 ib. f «t'ii;t ilv (liapici^c r\F v n 111i.illUlSCtlaCa \JL 244 Gleet — — 268 Glyster, tobacco 123 of opium 246 of turpentine ib. Gonorrhoea — 263 Goulard lotion 4 Gun-shot wounds 46 Gutta serena — 151 H. Habitual ulcer 80 Heematocele — 286 Ha;morrh<«fe from the nose 174 Hajmorrhoids — 288 Hare-lip — 179 , operation for Head, dislocation of 217 Hemlock cerate 64 poultice 73 Hernia — 114 congenita 129 , femoral ib. cerebri 14] humoralis 282 , inguinal 115 umbilicalis 132 Hip, dislocation of 222 Hip-joint, diseases of 212 Hordeolum — 160 Humerus, dislocation of 218 , fracture of 236 , amputation of 321 Hydarthrus — 205 Hydrocele — 276 Hydrothoraxi — 199INDEX, T. Page Imperforate meatus audi- torius — — 173 ■ nostril — 177 anus 192, 296 Incised wounds — 18 Inflammation — — ] , phlegmonous 1 , erysipelatous 5 — , termina- tions of — — 8 of the inte- guments — — 54 — of veins ib. of absorbents 55 of fasciae ib. of the brain 142 of the eye 144 of the car 169 - of the breast 201 of the bones 226 of the tes- — 282 — 115 134 40 tide — — Inguinal hernia — Injuries cf the brain Insects, bite of — Integuments, inflamma- tion of Internal piles — — Intestines, wounds of — -, ulceration of Inversion of the cilia — Ischuria — — Issues — — — — — 54 28 191 161 255 58 Joints. J. wounds of blood in. K. Kidney, wounds of — , stone in, 32 206 31 244 Page L. Lacerated wounds — 1 35 Larynx, ulcer in — 193 Lead, poultice of — 4 Leeches, application of 57 Leg, amputation of — 320 Linimentum olei cum calce 83 Lip, cancer of — 180 Lips, diseases of — 179 Liquor eupri sulphatis cum camphora — 65 aluminis compositus 90 248 30 64 4 ib. ib. Lithotomy Liver, wounds of Local vitiated ulcer Lotio plumbi acetatis - composita ammonia; acetatis niuriatis spirituosa — — acidi nitrici •— hydrargyri ftava — nigra 050 15 309 ib. 74 62 myrrhse — Lower jaw, dislocation of 217 , fracture of 23a Lungs, ulcer of — 196 M. Malt poultice — — 1* Mastodynia — — 201 Meatus auditorius, im- perforated —■ — 173 Mercurial ulcers —>• 183 Mollifies ossium — 231 Mortification — — 13 of ; he bones 227 Mouth, diseases of — 182 Mucus — — 10 Myrrh lotion — — 74INDEX. Page ■ 33 • 101 • 227 ■ 55 • 313 • 174 • ib. ■ 232 ■ 174 ■ 177 N. Neck, wounds of , Derbyshire Necrosis Nerves, wounds of Node, venereal Nose, diseases of , polypus of " , fracture of , bleeding from Nostril, imperforated O. (Esophagus, contraction of 189 Olecranon, fracture of 240 Oleum palmee cum cam- phora — 12 camphors causti- cum Opium glyster Ophthalmia — , vene Orchitis — Os femoris, fracti Ozaena — — , venereal P. Paracentesis of the thorax 198 of abdomen 199 Paraphymosis — — 274 Paronychia — 85 Parotid duct, division of 186 Pasta piperis composite 290 Patella, dislocation of 224 , fracture of — 239 Pea-issue — ■— 58 Penis, cancer of — 275 ■ , amputation of — 300 Pernio — — gy Phagedenic ulcer — 7(; Phlegmonous inflammation 1 161 246 144 312 2S2 f 236 176 311 Phrenitis ■— • _ Phymosis — Piles — _ _ Pill, Carnatic — — Filula conii composita terebinthhue — com posita — — Poisoned wounds — Polypus of the nose — of tire ear — Popliteal aneurism — Poultice of lead of yer.st — , foxglove — , carrot — , sorrel — , apple — of hemlock — of malt — Prolapsus ani — Prostate gland, enlarge- ment of — Protrusion of the eye Psuas abscess — Pterygium — — Tulvis sabinao compositus Punctured wounds — Pus — _ in the joints ■— Pylorus, scirrhus of — Quilted suture Q. Page ■ 142 273 ■ 288 45 257 267 263 S8 174 172 110 4 17 63 71 ib. ib. 73 IS 293 261 164 214 168 97 36 10 207 190 27 R. Rabid animals, bites of 39 Rachitis — 231 Radius, dislocation of 220 , fracture of — 236 Ranula — _ j 84INDEX. Page Rattlesnake, bite of — 40 Receptaculum chyli, wounds of — —" 31 Rectum, scirrhus of — 191 Resolution of inflammation 9 Respiratory organs, dis- eases of — — 193 Retention of urine — 255 Retortion of the eyelids 163 Ribs, fracture of — 234 Rupture — — l'4 of the urethra 259 .. inguinal — 115 S. Salivary calculi — 186 Sarcomatous tumors — 96 _ tumor of the lip — — — 181 Scalds — — 81 Scapula, fracture of — 234 Scarification — — 57 Scirrhus — — 9 of the rectum 191 of the pylorus 190 _ of the testicle 284 Scorbutic ulcer — 70 Scrofulous ulcer — 72 Scrotum, anasarca of 280 Serpents, bite of — 40 Seton — — — 59 Shoulder-joint, amputa- tion of — — 321 Sibbeuic ulcers — 183 Snake pill, Climatic — 45 Sore throat, venereal 303 Sorrel poultice — 71 Spasmo iic stricture — 257 Specks of tlie eye — 156 Spine, dislocation of — 218 , carica of <— 229 Page Spleen, wounds of — 31 Spontaneous union, pro- gress of — — 18 Sprains — — 93 Steatomatous tumors — 98 tumors of the eye — — 161 Stone in the kidney 1— 244 in the ureter — ib. in the bladder — ib. in the urethra — 253 Strangulated hernia — 121 femoral her- nia, operation for — 129 Strangury — — 254 Stomach, wounds of — 27 Stricture — — 270 , spasmodic — 257 Stye — — — 160 Suppuration — — 9 Suspended animation — 194 Suture, ouilted — 27 , uninterrupted 29 Syphilis — — 297 Syphilitic sore throat 303 eruption — 308 ulcers ■— 311 oza'na — w< ophthalmia 312 pains — 313 node — T. Tapping the belly — 199 the chest — 198 Tenaculum — — 21 Tendons, wounds of — 34 Terminations of inHani- mation — — 8 Testicle, inflammation of 282 } scirrhus of — 2S4Page Thigh, amputation of 315 Thorax, paracentesis of 198 Thrash — 183 Tibia, dislocation of 224 ■ > fracture of 240 Tobacco glyster 123 Tongue-tied — 183 , cutting of 184 , cancer of 185 Tonsils, enlargement of 187 Topical bleeding — 57 Tournequet — 21 Trepanning — 138 Trichiasis — 161 Truss, application of 119 Tumors — 96 , stcatomatous 98 — , sarcomatous 96 , encysted 99 Turpentine glyster 246 U. Ulcer, benign • 60 , contagious 79 , local vitiated 61 ■ , phagedenic 76 —— of the eye 159 in the larynx 193 , scrofulous 72 , cancerous 74 Ulceration of the intes- tines — 19l Ulcers — 60 , constitutional 70 — , sibbenic 183 , scorbutic 70 — , mercurial 183 , venereal 31 1 Ulna,, dislocation of 220 ■ , tnicture of 236 Umbilical heroia 139 Unguentum conii 150 Page Unguentum ophthalmicus 157 ■ gallae cam- phoratum — — 290 ammonite carbonatis — — 74 plumbi ace- tatis composituni — 302 Union, spontaneous — 18 by first intention ib. by granulations ib. Uninterrupted suture 29 Ureter, stone in — 244 Urethra, stone in — 253 , rupture of — 259 Urinary organs, diseases of 240 bladder, wounds of 32 Urine, incontinence of 254 , retention of — 255 Uvula, enlargement of 188 V. Varicocele — — 281 Varicose aneurism — 113 Vanx — — — 114 Veins, inflammation of 55 Venereal ulcers — 311 node — 313 sore throat — 303 disease 263, 303 eruption — 308 warts — 310 ophthalmia — 312 p;u us — 313 Verruca;, venereal — 310 Viper, bite of — — 39 Vitiated ulcers — 61 Vomica — — 196 w. Ward's paste. — — 290 Warts of the eye — 161 Water in the chest — 190INDEX. Page Tage Wax in the ear — 170 Wounds of the eyelid — 156 • , deficiency of — 171 of the eyeball ib. White swelling 205, 207 of the spleen — 31 Whitlow —■ — 85 of the kidney ib. Wounds — — 18 of the reccptacu- , incised — ib. lum chyli — — ib. of the clust — 24 of the urinary of the abdomen 2G bladder — — 32 i of the stomach 27 , contused — 35 — of the intestines 28 , lacerated — ib. ■ of the gall-bladder 31 of tendons — 34 ■ of the liver — 30 of the neck — Wrist, dislocation of — 33 of the joints 32 221 of the nerves 55 , amputation at — 315 , poisoned — 38 , punctured — 3ti Y. «———, gun-shot — 46 Yeast poultice — — 17 THE END. S. Gosnell, Printer, Little Queen Street, London. ■