75 GLUTEAL ARTERY. The largest branch of internal iliac, and the continuation of its poste.jor division. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformis, and then between latter muscle and gluteus medius, and divides into: Superficial Branch - Gives off numerous branches to gluteus maximus & in. tegument over sacrum; Deep Branch - Forwards between glutei medius & minimus, and divides into: Superior Division - Along upper border of gluteus minimus towards an- terior superior spine of ilium, and joins with circumflex iliac. Inferior Division - Crosses gluteus minimus towards great trochanter, and joins with ascending branch of external circumflex. SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE. From back of lumbo-sacral cord. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great sacro-sciatic foramen above pyriformis, and divides into : Superior Branch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei medius & minimus Inferior Branch - Directly forwards between glutei medias & minimus, which it also supplies, and terminates in tensor vaginas femoris. SCIATIC ARTERY. The larger of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery, and the largest branch of the artery after gluteal. Downwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of internal pudic. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadrat us femoris and in front of gluteus maximus. Gives off branches: Muscular, Articular to hip-joint; Coccygeal, Inferior Gluteal; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender; with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigh. SMALL SCIATIC NERVE. From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg; communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: Inferior Gluteal - Several, large; to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischiito skin of perinseum and upper & inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous - Descending. To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigh, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending. Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integu- ment over its surface. MUSCULAR BRS. OF SACRAL PLEXUS. To pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli & quadratus femoris. The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. The gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a common branch, which runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemelli, and gives off an articular filament to the joint,,