167 VEINS of HEAD & NECK-lst Tablet. ANTERIOR JUGULAR VEIN —Commences in submaxillary region and descends beneath platysma between sterno-mastoid & middle line of neok, and then deeply beneath sterno-mastoid, beneath which muscle it communicates with external & internal jugulars, and usually also with its fellow by a long & narrow transverse branch. Ends usually in subclavian close to external jugular, some- times in terminal portion of external jugular. Receives Lateral Tributary Branches: - A few laryngeal veins & sometimes an inferior thyroid vein. - Varies greatly in size, and is frequently absent on one side or other. EXTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN — Formed by coalescence of temporal, internal maxillary, & posterior auricular, and commences in substance of parotid gland opposite angle of jaw. Descends perpendicularly over sterno-mastoid & along its posterior border, beneath platysma & over superficial cervical n., and, perforating deep fascia, opens into subclavian externally to internal jugular. Has two pairs of valves situated, one at its opening into subclavian, the other about an inch & a half above clavicle. - Receives Lateral Tributary Branches : - Suprascapular, Tramversalis Colli, <2^ Posterior External Jugular, sometimes the Occipital; - and communicates with the anterior & internal jugulars, with the latter by a large branch in sub- stance of parotid. INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN - The continuation of lateral sinus opposite jugular foramen, in which foramen it is expanded into the gulf or sinus of the internal jugular vein. Descends vertically, lying first on outer side of & a little behind internal carotid, then on outer side of common carotid, and finally, on the left side, on outer side & in front of common carotid, and, on the right side, externally to & at a certain distance from it, in front of first part of subclavian. The eighth & ninth nerves lie on inner side & in front of its sinus; lower down the spinal accessory crosses the vein posteriorly, and the glosso-pharyngeal & hypoglossal pass forwards on its inner side, between it and the internal carotid j the pneumogastric lies along whole of neck between & behind the two vessels; behind the vein are the recti capitis lateralis, anticus major, & the longus colli. -Joins subclavian behind sterno-clavioular articulation to form the innominate, a pair of valves being situated at or a little above its termination. - Receives Lateral Tributary Branches : - Occipital (usually), Facial, Lingual, Pharyngeal, Sup- erior <5r» Middle Thyroid; - and communicates by a large branch with external jugular in substance of parotid.