255 THE CARDIAC PLEXUSES. The cardiac nerves form two primary cardiac plexuses termed the superficial & the deep or great, and two secondary plexuses, the anterior & the posterior coronary, which two latter plexuses are derived from the preceding, as are also in part the anterior & the posterior pulmonary plexuses. SUPERFICIAL CARDIAC PLEXUS — The smaller. Is situated beneath arch of aorta in front of right pulmonary artery and on right side of ductus arteriosus. It com- municates by several filaments with the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. It is formed by the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, and by several filaments from the deep cardiac plexus. It often presents a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg. It gives off the greater part of anterior coronary plexus, and several filaments to anterior pulmonary plexus of left side. DEEP OR GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS — The larger. Is situated between trachea & arch of aorta, its right half lying above right branch of pulmonary artery, its left half lying rather on left side of trachea and being connected by several filaments with the superficial plexus. It is usually formed by every one of the cardiac nerves excepting the left superior cardiac nerve of sympathetic & left inferior cervical cardiac nerve of pneumogastric. Its right half sends branches - behind right pulmonary artery to posterior coronary plexus & to right auricle; - in front of right pulmonary artery, outwards, to right anterior pulmonary plexus, inwards, in front of pulmonary trunk to anterior coronary plexus. - Its left half gives off: - several filaments to superficial cardiac plexus, numerous fiia- ments to posterior coronary plexus & to left auricle, a few branches to left anterior pulmonary plexus. ANTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — la derived chiefly from the superficial cardiao plexus, but partly also from the deep. It passes forwards between aorta & pulmonary artery and accompanies the left or antei-ior coronary artery & its branches. POSTERIOR CORONARY PLEXUS — Is derived chiefly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus, but partly also from the right. Its branches accompany the right of posterior coronary artery and its branches. The filaments of the coronary plexuses ramify in the substance of the heart and beneath the pericardium & endocardium. Numerous small ganglia are found upon them, especially in the vicinity of the boundary ring3 between the auricles & ventricles. SPLANCHNIC NERVES. Usually three m number, and termed great, tesser, & fea&. Arise as follows from the six or seven lower dorsal ganglia : Great Splanchnic Nerve - Ganglia from 5th or 6th to 9th or 10th • - Is also con- nected with the dorsal ganglia above as high as the 3rd, or sometimes even as high as the 1st. Lesser Splanchnic Nerve - 10th & 11th ganglia. Least Splanchnic Nerve -12th ganglion. Pass downwards & inwards upon bodies of vertebras being either more or less separate & distinct from each other, or more or less plexiform, and frequently presenting, when plexiform, either one relatively large ganglion, the ganglion splanchnicum, or several smaller ones. Perforate diaphragm conjointly or separately. End, the two first mainly in solar plexus, the last mainly in the renal. - The majority of the fibres of the great splanchnic nerve descend directly to the semilunar ganglionof same side The great splanchnic nerves are white & firm in texture, as are also the branche? of the superior mesenteric plexus.