269 INNER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents for examination: Marginal Convolution & Convolution of the Corpus Callosum separated from each other by tho Calloso-marginal Fissure; Quadrate dr3 Occipital Lobules separated from each other by the Internal Parietooccipital Fisstcre, and separated by the Calcarine Fissure from the internal temporo-sphenoidal convolutions; Internal Temporo-sphenoidal Convolutions, three in number, superior (dentate convolution), middle (gyrus uncinatus) & inferior, and separated from the foregoing by the above-mentioned calcarine fissure and from each other by the Dentate & Collateral Fissures. Marginal Convolution - Forms the lateral boundary of the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure. Beginning at the anterior perforated space, it first passes forwards on the inner side of the olfactory sulcus as far as the apex of the frontal lobe, and then curves upwards & backwards along the upper margin of the hemisphere to a little behind the fissure of Rolando. Convolution of the Corpus Callosum or Gyrus Fornicatus - Begins anteriorly with the foregoing, and then winds backwards along the convex surface of the corpus callosum from which it is separated by the so.called ventricle. Posteriorly it joins above with the quadrate lobule, and then, becoming slightly constricted, is reflected downwards & forwards round the splenium and continued into the gyrus uncinatus. CalloSO-Marginal Fissure - Separates the two foregoing convolutions along their whole length, and then ascends to the upper margin of the hemisphere separating the marginal convolution from the quadrate lobule. Quadrate Lobule - Quadrilateral. Bounded above, in front, & behind respectively by the margin of the hemisphere, and by the calloso-marginal & internal parieto-occipital fissures. Blends inferiorly with the gyrus fornicatus. Occipital Lobule - Triangular. Bounded behind, in front, & below respectively by the inner margin of the hemisphere and by the internal parieto-occipital & calcarine fissures. Internal Parieto-Occipital Fissure - Separates the two foi-egoing lobules. It is continuous superiorly with the external parieto-occipital fissure; inferiorly it joins with the calcarine fissure. Calcarine Fissure - Extends horizontally forwards from the apex of the occipital lobe to the point of junction of the gyrus fornicatus with the gyrus uncinatus. It separates the occipital lobule from the middle temporo-sphenoidal convolution, and joins anteriorly with the internal parieto-occipital fissure. Superior Tempcro-Sphenoidal or Dentate Convolution - is but a narrow band of grey matter which lies internally to the fascia dentata. It blends anteriorly with the uncus. Dentate Fissure"- Corresponds to the hippocampus major, and separates the dentate convolution from the gyrus uncinatus. Middle Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution or Gyrus Uncinatus - Comprised between the calcarine & collateral fissures, and extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is slightly constricted towards its middle & enlarged in front & behind; anteriorly it presents a small hooked prolongation, the uncus, which curves upwards & backwards, and joins with the dentate convolu- tion & with the corpus fimbriatum. Collateral Fissure - Extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, separating the gyrus uncinatus from the inferior temporo-sphenoidal convolu- tion. It corresponds towards its middle to the eminentia collateralis. Inferior Temporo-Sphenoidal Convolution - Appears both on the inner & under surfaces of the hemispheres, and is joined behind by the fourth annectant to the inferior occipital convolution.