166 POSTEKIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. OCCIPITAL —* Arises just below posterior belly of digastrio, and is crossed close to its origin by hypoglossal nerve. Upwards and backwards beneath posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, & portion of parotid gland, crossing internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, glossopharyngeal, pneuraogastric & spinal accessory nerves, - and then between mastoid process & transverse process of atlas. Horizontally backwards in occipital groove beneath sterno-mastoid, digastric, splenius & trachelo-mastoid, - and then between trapezius & complexus. Pierces upper part of trapezius, ascends beneath integument with great occipital nerve, and divides into numerous branches to upper & back part of head. Gives off branches: Muscular - Numerous small ones, and one large one to upper part of sterno- mastoid. Auricular - To back of ear. Meningeal - Through jugular foramen to dura mater of posterior fossa. Arteria PrincepS Cervicis - Descends beneath splenius, and divides into: Superficial Be. - Descends between splenius & complexus, and anasto- moses with superficial cervical branch of posterior scapular. Deep Br. - Descends beneath complexus, and anastomoses with vertebral & with deep cervical branch of superior intercostal. POST. AURICULAR — Arises beneath or above digastric & stylo-hyoid, and ascends under cover of parotid gland & beneath facial nerve to groove between cartilage of ear and mastoid process, where divides into Ant. & Post. Branches - Which communicate respectively with posterior branch of temporal & with occipital, and of which the former gives off numerous branches to back of ear. - Gives off StylO-mastoid Art. ( Sometimes derived from occipital). - Through stylo- mastoid foramen to tympanum & semicircular canals, joining with tym- panic branoh of internal maxillary, with which it forms in young sub- jecf ° «• vascular circle round membrana tympani. INTEENAL BRANCH of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL — Long, slender; from back of external carotid near its origin. Ascends vertically to base of skull, in front of internal carotid artery and between that vessel & side of pharynx, giving off branches: External - Small, irregular, to 8th, 9th, and sympathetic nerves, and adjoining muscles. Pharyngeal - Three or four j to the three constx-ictors, stylo.pbaryngeus, Eus- tachian tube, soft palate & tonsil. Meningeal - To dura mater through foramina lacera posterius & medium, and sometimes through anterior condyloid foramen