282 STRUCTURE of the SPINAL CORD-3rd Tablet. Continuation Upwards of the White Fibres of the Columns into the Medulla Oblongata. Anterior Column - Is thrust aside in the medulla oblongata by those antero-internal fibres of the lateral column, which, after decussating in the middle line, form the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. It then divides into three bundles as follows: Innermost Bundle - Joins externally the above mentioned antero-internal fibres of the lateral tract, and forms the smaller & outermost part of the anterior pyramid of the same side. Middle Bundle - Surrounds the olivary nucleus, above which it forms, with a few fibres arising from this nucleus, the olivary fasciculus or fillet. External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the processus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior pedunole of the cerebellum. Lateral Column - Divides into three bundles as follows: Antero-Internal Bundle -Passes forwards & inwards between the anterior columns, thrusting these columns aside, and forms, after decussating in the middle line, the innermost & greater part of the anterior pyramid of the opposite side. Middle Bundle - Ascends with the fasciculus gracilis beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, forming part of the fasciculus teres. External or Posterior Bundle - Passes upwards & backwards to join the fasciculus cuneatus, and goes to form part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. Posterior Column - Divides into two bundles as follows : Internal Bundle or Fasciculus Gracilis - The smaller. Ascends beneath the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, and goes to form part of the fasci- culus teres. External Bundle or Fasciculus Cuneatus - The larger. Diverges from its fellow at the apex of the calamus scriptorius, and passes upwards & outwards to form the greater part of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum. N.—The reader is here reminded once for all that by the "continuation" of nerve-fibres referred to in this & other Tablets, the Author means, not the continuation of the individual tubular fibres (respecting the absolute origin & termination of which tubular fibres little is yet positively known), but the continuation of the sevei*al bundles of nerve-fibres, which continuation is marked by the general direction of the fibres.