226 INPEEIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The largest of the three divisions. Both sensory & motor, its two roots uniting immediately after their exit from foramen ovale. Divides a few lines below base of skull into: ANTERIOR Or SMALLER DIVISION — Principally motor. Divides into : Masseteric Br. - Outwards above external pterygoid muscle and through sigmoid notch to masseter. Gives off a twig to temporo-maxillary articulation & some- times one to temporal muscle. Deep Teniporal Brs. - Two, anterior & posterior. Outwards above external ptery- goid muscle and reflected upwards at pterygoid ridge to temporal muscle. Are sometimes joined, anterior one with buccal nerve, posterior one with masseteric. Buccal Br. - Pierces external pterygoid, and forwards on buccinator, giving filaments to temporal muscle, integument & mucons membrane. Pterygoid Brs. - Two, to internal & external pterygoid muscles. Branch to internal pterygoid gives off motor root to otic ganglion. Branch to external pterygoid is frequently derived from buccal. POSTERIOR Or LARGER DIVISION — Sensory with a few motor fibres. Divides into: Auriculo-teniporal N. - Has generally two roots which embrace middle meningeal artery. Backwards beneath external pterygoid & neck of condyle ; Upwards with temporal artery between condyle & external ear under cover of parotid gland, and divides into: Auricular Brs. - Inferior & superior, to outer surface of pinna, join- ing with great auricular. Temporal Brs. - Anterior & posterior; with branches of,temporal artery to skin of temporal region & vertex. Joins facial nerve behind neck of condyle usually by two branches; gives off sensory root of otic ganglion and filaments to parotid gland & temporo-maxillary articulation. Gustatory or Lingual N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where it lies on inner side & in front of inferior dental nerve, and is joined by chorda tympani; Above deep portion of submaxillary gland & along side of tongue, crossing Whar- ton's duct. Supplies mucous membrane of mouth & gums, submucous glands, conical & fun- giform papillas and mucous membrane of tongue. Gives sensory branches to submaxillary ganglion, and anastomoses with hypo- glossal nerve on anterior margin of hyo-glossus & near tip of tongue. Inf. Dental N. - Between the two pterygoid muscles, where lies behind & on outer side of gustatory; Between ramus & internal lateral ligament of temporo-maxillary articulation to dental foramen, where gives off nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle. Along inferior dental canal, giving branches to molar & bicuspid teeth, & divi- des at mental foramen into: Incisor Br. - Onwards in dental canal to canine & incisor teeth. Mental Br. - Divides beneath depressor anguli oris into numerous branches to muscles, skin & mucous membrane of lower lip. NERVE to MYLO-HYOID - Along groove on inner surface of ramus to under surface of mylo-hyoid & anterior belly of digastric N. —All the terminal branches of the 5th nerve upon the face. join with facial nerve.