THE LARYNX—1st Tablet. CARTILAGES — Nine; three single, three pairs: - THYROID — The largest. Consists of two quadrilateral plates or alee joined in front at an acute angle, the highest & most prominent part of which angle is termed the Outer Surface -Presents on either side the pomum Adami. Presents: Obt ;que Line - For sterno-thyroid & thyro-hyoid; passes obliquely downwards & for- wards from tubercle near root of superior cornu. The surface behind gives attachment to inferior constrictor. Inner Surface - Covered by mucous membrane externally & above. Presents in middle line the Receding Angle - To which are attached the true & the false vocal cords, the thyro- arytaenoidei & -epiglottidei muscles, and the thyro-epiglottio ligament & apex of the epiglottis. Upper Border - Deeply notched opposite pomum Adami, rounded & prominent on either side of notch, concave laterally; gives attach, to thyro-hyoid membr. Lower Border - Shorter, straighter, connected to cricoid cartilage by crico-thyroid membrane & muscle. Posterior Border - Thick & rounded; gives attachment to stylo- & palato-pharyngei, and is prolonged upwards & downwards respectively into the Superior Cornu - Long, narrow; points upwards, backwards & inwards, and gives attachment to lateral thyro-hyoid ligament. Inferior Cornu - Shorter & thicker; points downwards forwards & inwards, and presents internally a small facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage.; CRICOID — Annular in shape, broad behind, narrow in front; thicker & stronger, but smaller than foregoing. Presents: Outer Surface - Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroideus & inferior con- strictor ; and then presents on either side from before backwards; Tubercle - Surmounted by an articular facet, for articulation with lesser cornua of thy- BroadRough Depression -For attachment of crico-arytaenoideus posticus*; ro^ cartilage; Median Vertical Ridge - For attachment of longitudinal fibres of oesophagus. Inner Surface - Smooth, lined with mucous membrane of larynx. Upper Border - Inclined downwards & forwards. Gives attachment in front & at sides to crico-thyroid membrane & crico-arytaenoideus lateralis, and presents at, its posterior & highest part, on either side of a slight median notch, two small oval facets for articulation with arytenoid cartilages. Lower Border - Horizontal; connected to first cartilaginous ring of trachea by fibrous membrane of that canal. ARYTiENOID — Two, small, pyramidal. Eest upon posterior & highest part of upper bor- der of cricoid cartilage, and present: i Anterior Surface - Convex, rough ; gives attachment to false vocal cord & upper fasci- Posterior Surface-Excavated for attach.of arytaenoideus. culus of thyro-arytaenoideus. Internal Surface - The narrowest, flattened, covered with mucous membrane. Base - Broad. Presents a smooth concave facet for articulation with cricoid cartilage, i and three angles, of which angles two are prominent & important, viz.,! Antero-Internal Angle -Long & pointed; gives attachment to true vocal cord & to! lower fasciculus of thyro-arytaenoideas. Postero-Ext. Angle - Short & rounded; gives attach, to the crico-arytaenoidei lateralis & Apex - Pointed, curved backwards & inwards; articulates on either side with the posticus. CORNICULA LARYNGIS or CARTILAGES of SANTORINI - Two small conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage sometimes joined to apices of arytaenoid cartilages, which apices they prolong backwards & inwards. CUNEIFORM CARTILAGES or CARTILAGES of WRISBERG — Two small rods of yellow elastic cartilage directed upwards & outwards in free border of arytasno-1 epiglottidean folds a little in front of arytaenoid cartilages; their anterior ex-! tremity is slightly enlarged. I EPIGLOTTIS — Median lamella of yellow elastic cartilage in the form of a leaf with the- stalk below, and the lamina or expanded part above. Presents:! Apex - Long & narrow; attached by thyro-epiglottio ligament to upper part of receding | Base-Broad, rounded, free. angle of thyroid cartilage. Anterior Surface - Free in its upper part, where it curves forwards towards base of tongue, to which it is connected by the three glosso-epiglottic folds; ad- herent below, where it is attached by hyo-epiglottic ligament to upper bor- der of hyoid bone. Posterior Surface - Free, smooth, concave from side to side, convex from above down- wards. Covers superior aperture ov /arynx during second act of deglutition, and is studded with numerous small pits for the reception of mucous glande. Lateral Margins - Convex, directed backwards; connected to arytaenoid cartilages by _ the arytseno-epiglottide&a fold*