45 ULNAR ARTERY The larger branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. Deeply to near middle of inner border of forearm, lying upon brachialis anticus & flexor profundus and beneath median nerve and all the superficial muscles except flexor carpi ulnaris, and being at a distance from ulnar nerve. Beneath skin and fascia only along front of inner border of forearm, lying, with ulnar nerve on its inner side, between flexor carpi ulnaris & flexor sublimis digitorum. Over anterior annular ligament on outer side of pisiform bone & slightly in front of nerve. Crosses palm of hand beneath skin & fascia and in front of flexor tendons & divisions of median & ulnar nerves, forming superficial palmar arch. This arch lies on a level with lower border of abducted thumb, a finger's breadth below deep palmar arch, and usually joins with superficialis volso or radialis indicia, or sometimes with princeps pollicis. BRANCHES: . Ant. ulnar recurrent — Small. Between pronator radii teres & brachialis anticus, and anastomoses with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna. Post, ulnar recurrent — Larger. Beneath flexor sublimis, and then between olecranon & inner condyle beneath flexor carpi ulnaris, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent, and with inferior profunda & anastomotica magna. Interosseous — Thick, an inch in length, to upper border of interosseous membrane, where divides into: Ant. Interosseous — Down front of interrosseous membrane with corres- ponding branch of median nerve and between flexors longus pollicis & profundus digitorum. Behind pronator quadratus, and through lower part of interosseous membrane to back of carpus, where joins with posterior interosseous & posterior carpal arch. - Gives off a long slender twig to median nerve, and their nutrient arteries to radius & ulna. Post. Interosseous — Between interosseous membrane & oblique or round ligament, and then between superficial & deep muscles of back of forearm to back of carpus, where anastomoses with termination of anterior carpal & with posterior carpal arch; gives off Interosseous Recurrent — Beneath anconeus & supinator brevis to interval between olecranon & external condyle, and anasto- moses with superior profunda & posterior ulnar recurrent. Ant. Carpal — Joins with anterior carpal branch of radial beneath deep flexor tendons; gives twigs to articulations of carpus. Post, carpal — Beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons, joining with posterior carpal branch of radial, and forming posterior carpal arch (Vide Radial artery). Sends a small branch along ' metacarpal bone of little finger. Communicating — Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and joins with termination of radial to complete deep palmar arch. Superficial palmar interosseous ( Digital ) — Usually four, but rather vari- able in size & number. Descend with terminal branches of median & ulnar nerves, first in front of, and then between, the flexor tendons ( and on inner side of the innermost), and join with deep palmar interosseous branches from deep palmar arch. The trunks thus formed divide at clefts between fingers to form digital branches to 3£ fingers on inner side of hand.