182 THE SALIVARY GLANDS—1st Tablet. Are the parotid, submaxillary & sublingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose glanda. PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on outer surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, a small detached portion, the soeia parotidia. Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres of platysma. Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process to. wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & deep part of glenoid fossa. Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pro- longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscles. Post. Surface - Rests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid prooess, sterno- mastoid, posterior belly of digastric. Is perforated by several Arteries - Extmial carotid with its posterior auricular; internal maxillary & temporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the latter. Veins - Internal maxillary & temporal forming origin of external jugular, and a branch of communication between the latter & the internal jugular. Nerves - Facial, auriculotemporal & deep facial branches of great auricular. ITS VESSELS & NERVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioned trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance & on surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of neck. -Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. * PAROTID DUCT ( Stexio's or Stenson's ) — From anterior border of the gland, and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over masseter a finger's breadth below zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha to midway between free margin of the lip & *ila of the nose. Through fat of cheek & buccinator, and obliquely beneath mucous membrane, which it perforates opposite 2nd molar tooth of upper jaw.