PREFACE TO THE FOURTH EDITION. Fourteen years' experience in the use of the Tablets of Anatomy has shown that, from ihe point of view of their utility to Students, the Tablets may be divided into two classes:— I. —Those—the majority,—which may be considered useful to most Students. II. —Those which are of use mainly to such as are preparing for the higher examinations. The Tablets which may be fairly considered to come within Class L, have alone beea introduced into this "Fourth Edition, or selection of the Tablets believed to be most useful to Students generally." The bulk and price of the work have therefore been considerably reduced. It has also been thought desirable to group the Tablets according to the several regions of the body, so that the book may become a companion to the sevei^al Dissectors' Manuals. Special facilities have furtherjbeen provided for the easy division of the book into parts or segments of a convenient size for carrying in the coat pocket. To this effect, the several groups of subjects, Posterior Triangle of the Neck, Anterior Triangle of the Neck, Orbit, etc., have each been arranged in what bookbinders cali a "section"; and if the book be opened somewhat forcibly between the front or title page of one section, and the last page of th@ preceding section, it will easily be divided at this point by simply cutting the bookbinder's threads or tapes. And each section will be found to contain a complete subject, to form a synopsis, so to speak, of one of the ordinary classes given by the Author in his private Anatomical School, and to constitute a pamphlet which, folded in two, will bear carrying about without falling to pieces. The advantages of a small book are thus added to some extent to those of a book of Ordinary size. This arrangement has involved, however, some repetitions and a few omissions, the latter generally unimportant, it is believed, and mostly remedied in the Appendix. The Tablets coming within Class II., i.e., those of use mainly to such as are preparing for the higher examinations, will be published separately. They will include all the " Special Dissections," etc. The minute Anatomy, which is now generally taken under the head of Physiology, and such subjects as bave mainly reference to minute anatomy, such as the ear, the eye, etc., have been removed from this edition. It is intended, however, that the Tablets of Physiology and Histology, thoroughly revised and brought up to date, shall be published in the same form as the present; and these publications will embody notes and explanations intended to facilitate the repetition by the student of the great bnlk of the practical exercises in Physiology by Professors Burdon-Sanderson, Foster & Langley, and other authors, which are now frequently demonstrated in the Author's private classes. 4.0, BRUN3WICK SQUARE, May, 1885.