104 THE MALE PEEIN^IUM. Consists of the structures which close outlet of pelvis anteriorly to line drawn from front part of one tubei ischii to that of the other. It is triangular in form, and is bounded laterally by rami of pubes & ischia and posteriorly by above men- tioned line. The width of its base (rather the smallest side of the triangle) is usually about 2J inches in the male adult, but it is sometimes considerably reduced; the operation of lateral lithotomy is then greatly impeded. The part is convex in middle line & slightly depressed laterally, and presents the following layers: Skin - Thin, dark, freely movable, marked by a prominent median raphe, studded with thin crisp hairs, and provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. Superficial Fascia - Divided into two layers. Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with sub- cutaneous tissue of surrounding regions. DEEP LAYER - Thin & aponeurotic ; lies in close contact with the muscles. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia externally to crura penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinamm; and is prolonged beneath sphincter ani, becoming continuous behind transversus perinsei & in front of rectum with inferior layer of deep perineal fascia; In front it is unattached, & continuous with dartos; Superiorly it gives off a median septum, which is rather deficient in front but pretty well marked behind. It binds down the superficial structures, and bounds inferiorly, and also, through its attach- ments, laterally & behind, a space, in which if urine be effused, this fluid will be directed forwards towards the scrotum, and the lower part of abdomen, and prevented from passing backwards towards anus, or outwards towards thighs. This layer is sometimes called the superficialperincealfascia. Superficial Genito-TJrinary Muscles - Are the: Erector Penis - Covering the crus; Accelerator Urines or Ejaculator Seminis - Spreading out upon bulb of urethra ; Transversus Perinsei - Separating perinseum proper from ischio-rectal region. These muscles bound a triangular area, which is crossed superficially by the superficial perinseal vessels & nerve, behind which area passes transversely inwards the transverse erinseal artery, and through which area can be seen deeply the superficial layer of the eep perina;al fascia. In lateral lithotomy the knife is carried backwards & outwards through inner & back part of this area on left side. Inferior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia, or Triangular Ligament of Urethra - Vide below. Membranous Portion of Urethra, Compressor Urethrse, & Deep Transversus Perinsei, Pudic "Vessels & N., Vessels & N. of Bulb, Cowper's Glands & their Ducts - Vide these parts. Superior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia - The deep perinseal fascia is a complex structure triangular in form, which supports the urethra, and closes anterior part of outlet of pelvis. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia internally to crura penis; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinseum, and is continuous both with thin fascia on under surface of levator ani, and, behind transversus perinsei, with deep layer of superficial fascia of perinseum; In front it is attached to pubic arch & sub-pubic ligament. It consists of two aponeurotic layers which are separated in the centre, but united laterally & behind ; of these two layers the Anterior, Inferior, or Superficial Layer - The thickest, is continued downwards & forwards upon anterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. This layer is perforated by the urethra about an inch below symphysis pubis, by dorsal vein of penis in front of urethra, & by pudic vessels & nerve on either side of the vein ; it is the only layer that can properly be called the triangular ligament of the urethra, though the term is sometimes applied to both layers taken together. POSTERIOR, Superior, OR Deep Layer - Thinner. Is continued upwards & backwards round (posterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and becomes continuous with pelvic fascia. Between these two layers are comprised the parts above mentioned, viz,, membranous por- tion of urethra with compressor urethrce &° deep transversus perineei muscles, pudic vessels nerve with vessels <2^ nerve of bulb, Cowper's glands &* their ducts. Above these parts are found in centre of perinseum the Prostate Gland & Neck of Bladder, - and laterally the Anterior Part of Levator Ani & of Pelvic Fascia - The latter fascia is continued posteriorly upon posterior part of levator ani, upon rectum & between it & bladder, and belongs as much to ischio-rectal region as to the perinseal.