274 TEANSVEBSE FISSURE of the BRAIN & INTRA- CEREBRAL PORTION of PIA MATER. TRANSVERSE FISSURE OP THE BRAIN Is of a horse-shoe shape, and about 3 inches wide. Its central part is horizontal and comprised between the tabercnla quadrigemina & the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus callosum. Its lateral portions curve downwards & forwards, and are comprised between the optic thalami & crura cerebri below & in front and the hippocampi majores & corpora fimbriata above & behind. This fissure transmits the pia mater into the interior of the brain. INTRA-CEREBRAL PORTION OF THE PIA MATER Forms on the one hand the velum interpositum & the choroid plexuses of the lateral & the 3rd ventricles, and, on the other, the choroid plexuses of the 4th ventricle. VelUHl Interposituni - Is a triangular fold of pia mater which is reflected into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It presents : Central Portion - Invests pineal gland, and covers under surface of fornix. From the under surface of this central portion two small vascular fringes, the _ choroid plexuses of the 3rd ventricle, hang down into the latter cavity. Lateral Mabgins - Spread out on either side beneath the corresponding margin of the fornix & its continuation, the corpus fimbriatum, into the body & des- cending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, resting, as do the margins of the fornix, upon the optic thalami. These lateral margins are thick, convoluted & fringe-like; they constitute the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles further described below. Posterior Margin or Base - Is turned backwards towards the transverse fissure. It is continuous with the general pia mater ; it receives the anterior & posterior choroid arteries and emits the venge Galeni. Anterior Bifid Extremity - Continuous through the foramina of Monro with the anterior pointed extremities of the lateral margins above described or choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. Choroid Plexuses of the Lateral Ventricles - Are nothing more than the thick, convoluted & fringe-like margins of the velum interpositum. When they are described separately, that is to say irrespectively of the velum interpositum of which they are a portion, they may be said to penetrate into the descend, ing cornua of the lateral ventricle through the lateral portions of tho transverse fissure. Hence they ascend into the body of the lateral ventri- cle along the side of the corpus fimbriatum, winding round the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus. Then continuing along the side of tho '< fornix, they taper to a point, and passing through the corresponding fora- men of Monro, they join with each other and with the anterior bifurcated extremity of the central & thinner portion of the velum interpositum. Choroid Plexuses of the 3rd Ventricle - Are two small vascular fringes which hang down from the under surface of the central portion of the velum ; interpositum into the cavity of the 3rd ventricle j they diverge slightly behind. ! Choroid Plexuses Of the 4th Ventricle - Are two similar fringes which project into the 4th ventricle from the layer of pia mater whioh closes that ventri- cle inferiorly; they pass upwards & outwards from near the point of tho inferior vermiform process to the outer margin of tho restiform body.