848 THE VENiE AZYGOS. Collect the blood from the intercostal spaces, and are three in number, the major, minor, & left superior. VENA -AZYGOS MAJOR, or RIGHT AZYGOS - Commences in the right as- cending lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from the inferior cava or the right renal. Through aortic opening of diaphragm on right side of thoracic duct, behind & on right side of aorta; - sometimes through right crus. Along right side of spine in front of right intercostal arteries to 3rd dorsal vertebra. Arches forwards over root of right lung, and opens into superior vena cava just before it enters pericardium. Receives*. Tributary Branches : - Nine or ten lower intercostal veins of right side, vena azy°os ■minor, several small oesophageal, mediastinal & spinal veins, the right bronchial^ sometimes the right superior intercostal, and occasionally the left one. VENA AZYGOS MINOR, or LEFT LOWER AZYGOS - Arises in left ascend- ing lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from left renal. Perforates left crus of diaphragm (passes sometimes through aortic opening), and ascends along left side of spine in front of left intercostal arteries to 6th or 7th dorsal vertebra. Crosses spine behind aorta & thoracic duct, and opens into vena azygos major. Receives: Tributary Brandies! - Four or five lower intercostal veins of left side, several small mediastinal, oesophageal dr» spinal veins. LEFT UPPER AZYGOS — Receives the blood from those left intercostal veins, usually two or three in number, which are situated between the intercostal veins that open into the left lower azygos and those that open into the left superior inter- costal. It therefore varies greatly in size, diminishing as these latter veins in. crease, & vice versa ; often it does not exist at all, or one or more of the 5th, 6th, & 7th left intercosal veins may merely open directly into the vena azygos major. When there is a distinct left upper azygos, it opens either into the azygos major, or into the left lower azygos. A few imperfect valves are found in the main azygos vein; distinct; valves are found, m the intercostal veins.