179 FACIAL N. or PORTIO DURA of the 7th PAIR. Arises from upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove behueen olivary & restiform bodies. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle & from nucleus of motor root of 5th nerve, and also, by its accessory portion or portio intermedia of _ ~ Wrisberg, from lateral column of cord. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and portio imtermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two. Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: Outwards - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presents geniculate ganglion or intumescentia gangliformis. Backwards — in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downzvards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinus. Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Auditorius Interims: One or two filaments to Auditory N. In Aqueductus Falloppii: Large Petrosal N. - to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levator palati &> azygos uvulce ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati &> tensor tympani; Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glossopharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. Auriculotemporal - From fcemporo-facial branch. Great Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are: In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius &> laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid; Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure; Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles j To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricu- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric. BRS. to STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY of DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temporal, malar (Sr5 infraorbital branches. CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides, into buccal, supramaxillary dr5 inframaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles ot expression of the face & the platysma, and anastomose with the ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with the. great auricular