110 MUSCLES of the ABDOMEN. External Oblique - Outer surface & lower borders of the eight lower ribs, interdigita- ting by four or five slips with serratus magnus a by three or four with latissimus dorsi. By fleshy fibres into anterior half of outer lip of crest of ilium, and its aponeurosis forms in succession : Poupart's ligament; Gimbernai's ligament; Outer pillar of external abdominal ring; Inner pillar of external abdominal ring: Superficial pai-t of linea alba by decussating with its follow, and perhaps also after deoussating the Triangular ligament & intercolumnar fascia of opposite side. (Vido ab- dominal Aponeuroses) Internal Oblique - Outer half of Poupart's ligament; anterior two-thirds of middle lip of crest of ilium; posterior layer of lumbar fascia. Lower border of cartilages of four lower ribs; linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Transversalis - Outer third of Poupart's ligament; anterior three-fourths of inner lip of crest of the ilium; inner surface of cartilages ofsix lower ribs interdigita ting with Diaphragm; by lumbar fascia from tips of spinous processes, tips & bases of transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebra). Linea alba; crest of pubes & pectineal line behind Gimbernat's ligament to the extent of about \ an inch, forming part of the conjoined tendon. Rectus Abdominis - By two heads from crest of pubes & ligamentous fibres covering symphysis. Cartilages of 5th, 6th & 1th ribs & side of ensiform cartilage. This muscle is traversed by from 3 to 5 linece transversa, irregular ten dinous intersections, which interrupt the superficial fibres and adhere firmly to anterior wall of sheath; these are situated opposite umbilicus, between umbilicus & ensiform cartilage, and, frequently, one or two less complete ones, near or below umbilicus. Pyramidalis - Front of pubes & anterior pubic ligament. Linea alba midway between pubes & umbilicus. - Is often absent on one or both sides. Cremaster - From middle of Poupart's ligament internally to lowest fibres of internal oblique & transversalis, and by a small pointed tendon from front of pubes & sheath of rectus, forming large external, and smaller & less constant internal bundles. Is the everted gubernaculum testis with a few additional fibres of the internal oblique, and sometimes of the transversalis, drawn or pushed down by the testicle during its descent (Curling). Quadratus Lumborum. Anterior Portion - Upper border of transverse processes of the two or three lower lumbar vertebras. Inner half of lower border of last rib. Posterior Portion - Ilio-lumbar ligament, and for about 2 or 3 inches from poste^ rior part of inner lip of crest of ilium. Apices of transverse processes of the 4 upper lumbar vertebrse, and inner half of lower border of last rib, N.—These muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypogastric, & ilio-inguinal nerves. The quadratus lumborum also receives branches from the anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves.