219 THE TWO FIRST SPINAL NERVES. POSTERIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Larger than anterior. Emerges between occipital bone & posterior arch of atlas ju^t behind vertebral artery, enters triangle formed by small poster- ior cranio-vertebral muscles, supplies these muscles & complexns, and joins with posterior division of 2nd cervical nerve. Sometimes give3 off a small cutaneous branch, which branoh, when io exists, accompanies occipital artery to integument of lower & baok part of occiput, aud joins with great & small occipital. Second Cervical Nerve - Three or four times as large a3 anterior division, aud the largest of the posterior cervical nerves. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, supplies iufer- ior oblique, and after joining with posterior division of 1st & 3rd cervical nerves, divides into: External Branch - Similar to external branches of six lower posterior cervical nerves, but soraevhat larger, joins with corresponding branch of 3rd posterior cervical nerve, and supplies the same muscles, & also the complexu^. Internal Branch (Great Occipital Nerve) - Crosses triangle formed by posterior crauio-vertebral muscles, pierces complexns & trapezius, joins with small occipital & with ascending twig from internal branch of posterior division of 3rd, and supplies integument of back of head as far as vertex; gives off an auricular branch to back of ear. ANTERIOR DIVISION OF First Cervical Nerve (Suboccipital) - Small. Emerges between occipital bono & posterior arch of atlas below vertebral artery. Passes forwards on inner side of vertebral artery & rectus lateralis muscle, crosses foramen in transverse process of atlas, and descends in front of this process to join with ascendmg branch of the second. Supplies the rectus lateralis & the recti capitis antici major & minor, and communicates with the pneumogastric, hypoglossal, & superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. Second. Cervical Nerve - Larger than foregoing, but still much smaller than the poster- ior division of the same nerve. Emerges between posterior arch of atlas & lamina of axis, passes forwards between transverse processes of the same vertebrae on outer side of vertebral artery, and divides into an ascending branch, which joins the first nerve, and a descending branch, whioh joins the second. Gives off the small ocoipital nerve.