199 THE TONGUE—3rd Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Thick & rough on anterior two-thirds of dorsum, sides, & tip; thin & smooth on posterior third of dorsum & on under surface. Consists of a cutis or corium dense & very similar to that of the skin, and 01 a thick layer of squamous epithelium j and presents : PAPILLA — Highly sensitive vascular projections divisible into simple and compound. The former are similar to the papillae of the skin, and cover whole of tongue; the latter, which are themselves studded with simple papillae, are found on rough surface only, and are divided according to their size & shape into: Papillae Maximse or Circumvallatae - From 7 to 12; situated at junction of middle & posterior thirds of dorsum, where they are arranged in two rows oblique backwards & inwards, which rows meet at foramen coecum and form together an inverted V. They consist of a central conical projection, the base of which is free while its apex is attached, which projection is contained in a cup-shaped depression bounded itself by a prominent circular rim. - The foramen coecum is the central depression, usually large, which lodges the central papilla, itself frequently small. Papillae Mediae or Fungiformes - Club-shaped, and present narrow attached & rounded free extremities. Sparingly scattered over anterior two-thirds of dorsum, collected in greater numbers over sides & tip. Papillae Minimae, or Conicae et Filiformes - Tapering or cylindrical, closely packed over whole of rougli surface, and arranged in rows which are vertical on borders & tip, and which are, on dorsum, parallel, posteriorly, to the rows of circumvallate papillae, but, anteriorly, more directly transverse. - The simple or secondary papillae borne by the filiform papillae contain a few elastio fibres, and their epithelial sheaths are prolonged beyond them sometimes to the extent of forming a pencil of almost hair.like fibres. In the fungiform & circumvallate, and probably also in the filiform papillae, the nerves form plexuses, from which small brush-like filaments are given off to the secondary papillae. These filaments are believed to terminate in the deep extremities of spindle-shaped nucleated bodies similar to the olfactory cells of Schultze(Billroth, Key). GLANDS - Are : Follicular - Aggregated on posterior third of dorsum behind papillae ciroumvttll&tae, and very similar to the follicular recesses of the tonsils. Racemose - Lie beneath & in front of foregoing, and over sides & under surface of tongue On under surface near tip they are collected into two small oblong aaassss deeojibsd by Blandin & Nuha.