MUSCTJLO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERVES. MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord in common with circumflex, and lies at first behind 3rd part of axillary artery & upper part of brachial. Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latis^imus dorsi, and in spiral groove with superior profunda artery. Between brachials anticus & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where it divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are: Muscular - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator^longus, ex- tensor carpi radialis longior. Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument of inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and of outer aspeot of fore-arm. RADIAL NERVE ~ The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on outer side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & closo to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon of supinator longus about three inches above wrist, pierces deep fascia, and divides into branches : External - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb; joins with posterior branch of external cutaneous. Internal - The larger. To integument, & remainder of 3£ fingers on outer side of hand; joins with external cutaneous & with dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & ring fingers may be supplied by same nervo, which may be either the radial or the ulnar, POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE - The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplying them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longior. Beneath extensores secundi internodii pollicis & communis digitorum to back cf carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrist. CIRCUMFLEX NERVE From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musoulo-spirah Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subscapulars. Backwards, with posterior circumflex vessels, through quadrilateral spaoa bounded by tere3 major, teres minor, long head ot triceps, & humerus. Gives off a small twig to shoulder-joint, and divides into: Srmerior Branch - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as anter- ^ ior border of deltoid; supplies deltoid, and gives off cutaneous filaments which perforate the muscle to integument over lower part of shoulder. Interim- Branch - The smaller. Supplies teres minor, back arfc A" of aeltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has frequently ' a gangliform enlargement on branch to teres miaojf.