ARTICULATIONS of the CRANIUM with the SPINE Are the occipito-ailoid and occipito-axoid articulations, from which articulations the atlo-axoid articulation cannot well be separated. OCCIPITOATLOID ARTICULATION — Consists of a double arthrodia between condyles of occipital and superior articular surfaces of atlas; the condyles being convex from before backwards & inwards and looking downwards & outwards, and the articular surfaces of the atlas being concave from before backwards & inwards and looking upwards & inwards. The ligaments are: Capsular ~ Two. Thin & loose; surround the arthrodial articulations. The synovial membranes of these articulations often communicate with that of the a j.^> .-x aj-, •-, m syndesmo-odontoid articulation. Ant. Occipito-Atloid-Two: J Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Basilar process to - Anterior tubercle of atlas. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to - Upper border of anterior arch of atlas* Post. Occipito-Atloid - Thin & broad membrane from Posterior margin of foramen magnum to - Upper border of posterior arch of atlas* It is perforated on either side by vertebral artery & suboccipital n. Lateral Occipito-Atloid - Two. Strong bands from Jugular process to - Base of transverse process of atlas. OCCIPITO-AXOID ARTICULATION — No direct contact between the two bones, but the two bones are firmly connected together, nevertheless, by the following ligts; - Occipito-Axoid - Strong broad band expanded superiorly, and which may be considered as a continuation upwards of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebra; from Basilar groove of occipital, where it becomes continuous with dura mater of skull, to - Posterior surface of body of axis. - It covers and conceals the — . . , mi , , 10 ,. cruciform ligament. OCCipito-Odontoid - Three, two lateral & one median. Lateral Occipito-Odontoid or Check Ligaments - Strong rounded cords from Rough depression on inner side of condyles of occipital to -Sides of odontoidpr. near its apex. Median or Suspensory Occipito-Odontoid Ligament - Strong band from Anterior margin of foramen magnum to - Apex of odontoid process. — This band is situated between, & blended superiorly, with deep anterior occipito-atloid ligt., on the one hand, & upper fasciculus of cruciform ligt. on the other. Vertical Fasciculus op Cruciform Ligt. - V. below. ATLO-AXOID ARTICULATION — Is a complex articulation consisting: 1. of a double arthrodia between the articular processes, the articular surfaces of which are large, fiat, circular, and inclined downwards & outwards. 2. of a double diar- throsis rotatorius between the anterior & posterior surfaces of the odontoid process, on the one hand, and the posterior & anterior surfaces respectively of the anterior arch of the atlas & of the transverse ligament, on the other hand, (atlo-odontoid & syndesmo-odontoid articulations, Oruveilhier). The ligaments are • - Capsular - Two. Thin, loose, strongest externally; surround the two arthrodias. Ant. Atlo-Axoid - Two: Superficial - Strong rounded cord from Anterior tubercle of atlas to - Base of odontoidproccess <5r» front of body of axis. Deep - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of anterior arch of atlas to - Base of odontoidprocess dr3front of body of axis. Post. AtlO" Axoid - Thin & broad membrane from Lower border of posterior arch of atlas to - Upper border of lamina of axis. Transverse - Strong transverse band, broadest in middle, which divides ring of atlas into a small anterior part, in which anterior part the neck of the odontoid process is firmly constricted, and a much larger posterior part, which transmits the cord & its membranes & the spinal accessory nerves. It is attached on each side to a Tubercle on inner surface of lateral mass of atlas - Its anterior surface is lined with synovial membrane of syndesmo-odontoid articulation. From its upper & lower borders, or rather from its posterior surface, are given off two fasciculi, which pass upwards & downwards to be attached, the one to the basilar groove, the other to posterior surface of body of axis ; with the trans- verse band, these vertical fasciculi form the cruciform ligament. The synovial membrane of the syndesmo-odontoid articulation often communicates with one or both of those of the occipito-atloid arthrodiw.