156 CERVICAL PLEXUS. Formed by anterior branches of four upper cervical nerves & loops connecting them, and lies beneath sterno-mastoid, in front of levator anguli scapulae & scalenus medius & the four upper vertebrae. Communicates through loop between 4th & 5th nerves with brachial plexus, and, through its deep communicating branches, with pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. - Its superficial branches communicate with facial & great occipital. Its branches are superficial & deep. SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES — Wind round posterior border of sterno-mastoid one above the other in the following order, which is also the order in which they arise. Small Occipital - From 2nd cervical j variable in size & sometimes double. Ascends beh;nd sterno-mastoid to attollens aurem & posterior belly of occipito- frontal, and perforates deep fascia to integument of back of side of head & upper part of back of pinna; its auricular branches being sometimes supplied by great occipital. Joins with great occipital, great auricular, & posterior auricular branch of facial. — The second small occipital, or smallest occipital, when it exists, arises from 3rd nerve, and sends twigs to back of neck. Great Auricular - From 2nd & 3rd cervical nerves. - Ascends upon sterno-mastoid & beneath platysma to near lobule of ear, where it divides into branches: Auricular - Several, large; to integument of back of pinna, joining with pos- terior auricular branches of facial & pneumogastric. Some twigs supply outer surface of lobule, and one reaches outer surface of pinna through a fissure between antihelix & concha. Mastoid - To integument behind ear, joining with post, auricular branch of facial. Facial - To integument of face, and to parotid gland joining with facial. Superficial Cervical - The largest; from 2nd & 3rd. Crosses sterno-mastoid beneath platysma & external jugular vein, and divides into brs. • Ascending - Gives off an ascending twig to external jugular vein, joins with cervico-facial branch of facial, and, supplying platysma, pierces it to integument of upper & front part of neck. Descending - Pierces platysma to integument of. lower & front part of neck. Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest as far as middle line. Clavicular - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) to integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta- neous branches of the superior intercostal nerves. Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integument''of outer & back part of shoulder.