193 LOSSAL NERVE Arises by ten or twelve filaments from groove between anterior pyramid 6° olivary body in a line continuous with that of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. These filaments form two bundles which perforate dura mater separately, and pass together through anterior condyloid foramen. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on lower part of floor of 4th ventricle. Passes downwards and forwards between pneumogastric & spinal accessory ns., with former of whioh it is intimately connected, and between int. jugular vein & int. carotid. Loops round occipital artery and passes forwards across external oarotid below post, belly of digastric Passes beneath posterior belly of digastrio & stylo-hyoid and crosses hyo-glossus, near ant. border of which it anastomoses with gustatory. Passes beneath mylo-hyoid to muscles & substance of the tongue. BBS. OF COMMUNICATION - Join with, G. of the trunk of the pneumogastric; *\ Sup. cervical g. of the sympathetic; > Arise near base of skill]. Loop between the two first oervical ns. J Gustatory n. — Arises near ant. border of hyo-glossus. BRS. OF DISTRIBUTION - Are the: DescendeilS Noni — Long & slender. Arises just beneath occipital artery. Passes downwards & forwards across sheath of carotid vessels. ( Sometimes within the sheath, either over or beneath int. jugular vein). Near middle of neck forms a loop with Communicans Noni, from convexity of which loop, brs. are given off to sterno-hyoid & -thyroid and omo-hyoid This br. is believed to derive its real origin principally from the 1st & 2ud cervical ns., and to have little more than an apparent origin from the hypoglossal, due to a temporary adhesion of its fibres to those of that nerve. Sometimes, owing to similar adhesions, it appears to arise from the pneumogastrio either wholly or in part. Brs. to Thyrohyoid & Genio-hyoid — &rise on surface of hyo-glossus. Brs. to Styloglossus, Hyo-glossus, Genio-hyo-glossus & subs- tance of the tongue. — Arise beneath mylo-hyoid. 24a