THE PALATE BONE-lst Tablet. Presents horizontal and vertical plates, -from the point of junction of which two plates the pterygoid process projects backwards & outwards, -while from the upper border of the vertical plate project upwards, the orbital process in front, and the sphenoidal process behind. It articulates with its felloxv, the superior maxilla, sphenoid, ethmoid, inferior turbinated & vomer. It assists in forming -principally, the floor & outer wall of the nasal fossa and the roof of the mouth, and -secondarily, the floor of the orbit, the pterygoid & spheno-maxillary fossa?, and the inner wall of the Antrum of High more. HORIZONTAL PLATE — Presents : Sup. or Nasal Surface - Smooth and concave from side to side, forms posterior part of floor of nasal fossa. Inf. or Buccal Surface - Rough, marked posteriorly by a Transverse ridge for attachment of aponeurosis of tensor palati, and more externally by a Deep notch, which assists in forming the posterior palatine foramen. A little further back, on the under surface of the pterygoid process, are the External & posterior small palatine foramina for external and posterior palatine nerves. Anterior Border — Serrated for articulation with palate process of superior maxilla. Posterior Border - Free for attachment of soft palate. Inner Border - Thick, surmounted by a ridge, which forms with its fellow a groove for vomer j presents posteriorly the Posterior nasal spine for azygos uvulae. VERTICAL PLATE - Presents: Inner Surface - Presents the Superior & middle turbinated crests, above, between & below which are seen A narrow & two wider horizontal grooves, which form part respectively of the superior, middle & inferior meatuses. Outer Surface - Presents towards its middle a Smooth surface, which forms the inner wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is prolonged inferiority into a Vertical groove, which assists in forming the posterior palatine canal. In front of these is a Rough surface, which articulates with the superior maxilla; and further forwards still a Narrow smooth surface, which forms part of inner wall of antrum. Behind is a Rough surface, which articulates above with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, below with the superior maxilla. Anterior Border — Thin, irregular, presents a projecting lamina, the Maxillary process, which assists in closing the lower part of the orifice of the antrum, and, forming a schindylesis, penetrates into a fissure of the superior maxilla at the lower part of that orifice. Posterior Border - Articulates with the inner plate of the pterygoid process. Upper Border - Presents the Orbital process in front, the Sphenoidal process behind, which processes are separated by a deep Notch forming the greater part of the sphenopalatine foramen (which foramen is completed - « ... above by the sphenoidal turbinated bone).