252 STRUCTURE of the HEART—1st Tablet. Presents for examination the fibrous rings of the arterial & auriculo.ventricular openings, and the muscular fibres. FIBROUS RINGS — The aortic & the two auriculo-ventricnlar rings lie close together behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 3rd costal cartilages, and are bound together by a fibrocartilaginous mass which becomes ossified in some of the larger animals. - The aortic ring lies in front of the left auriculo-ventricnlar; the right auriculo-ventiicular ring lies between, & to the right of, the two others. - The fibrous ring of the pulmonary artery is situated at the apex of the infundibulum opposite the upper border of the 3rd costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. These rings give attachment to the mitral .tricuspid & semilunar valves, to the muscular fibres of the auricles, and to some of the most superficial fibres of the ven- tricles. The margin of the arterial rings which is turned towards the auricles, is scalloped into three semilunar notches filled up by corresponding projections of the middle coat of the artery, the attachment of the arteries to the rings being strength- ened externally by the pericardium and internally by the endocardium. MUSCULAR FIBRES — Are striated, but are about £ smaller than those of striated mus- cles generally, and their striation is not so distinct. They divide and anastomose with each other, and they often contain fat cells. Their perimysium is but scanty. Fibres Of the Auricles - Are mostly transverse, superficial, & common to both auricle3; some however lie deeper, and are proper to each auricle. Superficial, Transverse, or Common Fibres - Surround maiuly the base of the sinuses, and are most marked anteriorly. Some dip into the inter- auricular septum. Deep or Proper Fibres - May be divided into: Looped Fibres - Arch over each auricle from before backwards, and are at. tached to the auriculo-ventricular rings both in front & behind. Annular Fibres - Encircle the appendices auriculae, and the venae cavae, pul- monary & coronary veins, extending for some distance upon the veins. Fibres of the Ventricles - Vide next Tablet.