THE MEDIASTINUM. la the anteroposterior septum comprised between the two lungs & pleurae. It is divided into three parts by the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. Anterior Mediastinum - Is the part in front of the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. It is narrow above, where it contains the remains of the thymus gland, the origins of the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, the upper part of the left internal mammary vessels, a large quantity of loose areolar tissue, & a few lymphatic glands. It is narrower still behind the middle piece of the sternum, where the two pleurae come in direct contaot as low down as the 4th costal cartilage. Quite inferiorly, in consequence of the notch in the lower part of the anterior border of the left lung, it expands to the left behind the 4th & 5th intercostal spaces of the left side; here it contains the lower part of the left internal mammary vessels, & that part of the triangularis sterni muscle, which overlies the apex of the heart. Middle Mediastinum - Is the part which contains the pericardium, heart & large vessels (ascending aorta, pulmonary vessels, superior vena cavaj - the inferior vena cava enters pericardium through opening in cordiform tendon of diaphragm), and also the phrenic nerves. It is the widest part of the mediastinum. Posterior Mediastinum - la the part behind the pericardium, heart, & large vessels. It contains the descending aorta, trachea, oesophagus ; the vense azygos major & minor & the left superior intercostal; the pneumogastric & splanchnic nerves; the thoracic duct; fat & lymphatic glands. Posterior Mediastinum.—In the Ninth Edition of Quain's Anatomy, Professor Thane cuts off the upper part of the mediastinum as hitherto described to form the Superior Mediastinum. " The Superior Mediastinum may be considered *' as bounded below by a plane passing through the lower part of the body of the "fourth dorsal vertebra behind, and the junction of the manubrium with the body " of the sternum in front. Its upper limit corresponds with the superior aperture " of the thorax. In front are the manubrium and the lower ends of the sterno- "hyoid and sterno.thyroid muscles; and behind are the upper four dorsal vertebrae and the lower ends of the longus colli muscles. It contains the trachea, "oesophagus and thoracic duct; the whole of ihe transverse part of the arch of " the aorta, the innominate artery, and those parts of the left common carotid " and subclavian arteries which are contained within the thorax; the innominate "veins and upper part of the superior vena cava; the phrenic and pneumo-gastrio " nerves, the left recurrent, and the cardiac nerves; and the cardiac lymphatic " glands and remains of the thymus gland."—{Quain's Anatomy, Vol. II., p. 477.)