THE LARYNX—3rd Tablet. MUSCLES Of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CriCO-Thyroideus - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior cornu of thyroid cartilage. - S, by superior laryn- geal nerve. Tilts the thyroid cartilage forwards, and thus elongates &* tenses the vocal cords. ThyrO-ArytsenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posterior surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytenoid cartilage, and into anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Draws the arytcenoid cartilage forwards, and thus shortens and relaxes the vocal cords; it also assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis. The former action is that of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer side of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinner fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis. CriCO-ArytgenoideuS Lateralis - Side of upper border of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytasnoid cartilage. - S. by recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytenoid cartilages so as to bring together their anterior or internal angles 6° the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus constricts the glottis. CriCO-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of aryteenoid cartilage. - S. by recur- rent laryngeal nerve. Rotates the arytenoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior or internal angles <2r> the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilates the glottis. ArytjBIlOideuS - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytenoid cartilages, pre- senting superficial oblique & deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior & the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. Brings together the two arytenoid cartilages, and thus constricts the glottis, espe- cially in its posterior part. - Sometimes a small fasciculus, the Kerato-cricoideus (Merkel), extends, below the preceding, from the cricoid cartilage to the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. MUSCLES Of the EPIGLOTTIS — Are three in number. Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - Inner surface of the thyroid cartilage externally to origin of thyro-arytaanoid. Margin of epiglottis & arytasno-epiglottidean fold. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in co7npressing the sacculus laryngis. Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Saeculi Laryngis - Ary. tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis, ArytsenO-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytenoid cartilage. Aryta3QO-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior apertwe of the larynx during the second act of deglutition. — The oblique fibres of the arytaenoideus are sometimes considered as belonging to the arytseno-epiglottidei, which muscles would then decussate in the middle line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytsenoideus, or arytsenoideua proper.