113 10NEUM -3rd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Keflexiona of peritoneum from walla of the abdomen or pelvia to viscera which are not portions of the intestinal canal. Belong to liver, bladder, uterus, & spleen. Ligaments of the Liver - Four: Suspensory or Falcifokm Ligament -Triangular or sickle-shaped fold reflected over obliterated umbilical vein or round ligament, and attached to upper surface of liver, diaphragm, & sheath of rectus. Coronary Ligament - Consists of two layers separated by a considerable inter- space, in which interspace the posterior border of the liver is connected to the diaphragm by firm areolar tissue. Its superior layer & the right half of its inferior layer are formed by greater bag; the left half of its inferior layer is formed by lesser bag. Lateral Ligaments - The two triangular & pointed extremities of coronary liga- ment. The left one is the longest & most distinct. Ligaments of the Bladder - Five in number, and termed false ligaments: Post. False Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch, in the male, of utero-vesical pouch, in the female. Contain obliterated^ hypogastric arteries & ureters. Lateral False Ligaments - From sides of bladder to sides of pelvis. Sup. False Ligament - Over urachus and obliterated hypogastric arteries to umbilicus. Ligaments of the Uterus - Six: Broad Ligaments - From sides of uterus to sides of pelvis. Their free margia contains from before backwards round ligament, Fallopian tube, & ovary. Ant. & Post. Ligaments - The margins of utero-vesical & recto-vaginal pouches. Obliterated hypogastric arteries & ureters are contained in both these folds. Suspensory Ligament Of the Spleen - Connects upper end of spleen to diaphragm. OMENTA — Folds proceeding from one viscus to another. Three: ~*4 Lesser or Gastro-hepatic Omentum - From transverse fissure of liver to lesser curvature of stomach. - Its right free border contains hepatic artery, bile duct & portal vein, and forms anterior boundary of foramen of Winslow. Great Or Gastro-COliC Omentum - Consists of four layers, of which the most an- terior & the most posterior belong to greater bag, and the two internal to lesser bag. The two anterior layers descend from great curvature of stomach & spleen j the two posterior ascend to transverse colon (at least in adult; for arrangement in foetus see foregoing Tablets). Gastro-Splenic Omentum - Connects hilum of spleen to great call de sac of stomach. Contains splenic vessels & vasa brevia, and is continuous in. feriorly with great omentum. MESENTERIES — Folds connecting greater part of intestine to posterior wall of abdomen. Seven: Mesentery Proper - Its root extends from left side of 2nd lumbar vertebra to right sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Its free border contains the small intestine. It is continuous superiorly with inferior layer of transverse meso-colon, inferiorly with meso-caecum & ascending meso-colon. MeSO-CSeCUm - Usually peritoneum merely passes in front of caecum ; &nd also merely in front of ascending colon, forming the Ascending Meso-colon. Transverse Meso-colon - Formed by junction behind transverse colon of the two ascending layers of the great omentum. Backwards from transverse colon to spine, where it meets transverse portion of duodenum, and becomes continuous with mesentery. Descending MesO-COlon - Similar to ascending meso-colon. Sigmoid MesO-COlon - Broad & well marked fold, which allows of considerable mobility on the part of sigmoid flexure. Aieso-rectum - Surrounds almost completely first portion of rectum, and covers second portion in front & at sides above, in front only towards middle, not at all below.