POPLITEAL ARTERY Commences at opening in lower part of adductor magnus. Downwards & outwards to back of knee-joint, and then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus muscle, where divides into anterior & posterior tibial. RELATIONS: In Fkont - Inner & posterior surfaces of femur, posterior ligament of knee-joint, popliteus muscle. Behind - Skin & fascia ; quantity of fat & lymphatic glands; semimembranosus; gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus; popliteal vein, internal popliteal nerve. On Inner Side - Semimembranosus; inner condyle; inner head of gastrocnemius. On Outer Side - Biceps; outer condyle; outer head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Popliteal vein lies close to artery, and is superficial & external to it except at lower part, where it crosses to inner side; it is frequently double at lower part. - Internal popliteal nerve is more superficial & exter- nal above, and is superficial & internal below. BRANCHES: MUSCULAR: Superior— Two or three, small, to hamstring mnscles & vasti. Anasto- mose with perforating & articular arteries. Inferior or Sural — Two, large, to heads of gastrocnemius & plantaris. CUTANEOUS:—A few, slender; arise separately or with sural. Over gastroc- nemius to integument of back of leg. ARTICULAR-Five: Superior - Two. Wind round femur above condyles to front of knee, pas- sing, the Internal, - Beneath tendon of adductor magnus; Ex"ernal, — Beneath tendon of biceps; and both dividing into Superficial & deep firs. - to vasti, femur & joint, and anastomosing with each other, and with inferior articular arteries, anas- tomotica magna & descending branch of external cir- cumflex. AzygOS - Arises behind posterior ligament of knee-joint, which it pierces to supply interarticular ligaments & synovial membrane. Inferior - Two. Arise beneath gastrocnemius, and wind round head of tibia beneath internal & external lateral ligaments, the external artery passing above head of fibula & beneath tendon of biceps. Divide into numerous branches to front of knee, and anastomose with each other, and with superior articular & the recurrent branch of tibial.