253 STRUCTURE of the HEART—2nd Tablet. FIBKES OP THE VENTKICLES Form seven layers differing from eaoh other by the direction of their fibres. These layers are continuous with each other at the apex & at the base of the heart as follows : - the 1st, or most external layer, with the 7th, or most internal layer. „ 2nd, „ 6th, „ 3rd, „ 5th, The fibres of the 4th or central layer return upon those of the same set. Together, the 1st & 7th layers form a kind of double ring inclosing all the other layers; the 2nd and 6th layers, a kind of double ring inclosing the 3rd, 4th, and 5th layers; the 3rd and 5th layers, a kind of double ring: inclosing the 4th layer. As a conse- quence the double ring formed by the 1st and 7fch layers extends farther towards the apex & the base of the heart than the double ring formed by the 2nd & 6fch lavers, which latter double ring extends farther than the double ring formed by the 3rd & 5th layers ; and the 4th or central layer is the least extensive of all. This explains the greater thickness of the walls of the ventricles towards the middle of their length than at either extremity. - The outer layers, it may be added, are thinner than the inner ones. The fibres of the three outer layers are inclined downwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, downwards & to the right on the posterior aspect; and they become less vertical in each successive layer. The fibres of the 4th layer are horizontal or transverse. The fibres of the three inner layers are inclined upwards & to the left on the anterior aspect of the heart, upwards & to the right on the posterior aspect, crossing the fibres of the three outer layers, and becoming more & more vertical or longitudinal in the successive strata. Some of the superficial fibres, especially those of the posterior surface, pass round and en- close both ventricles; the mass of the fibres, however, enclose but one ventricle. In the three outer layers the anterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the inner & front part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from tho front of the interventricular septum; these anterior fibres pass downwards & to the left, with a few of the anterior common superficial fibres, and get to the back part of the apex. The posterior fibres proper to the left ventricle issue from the outer & back part of the corresponding arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings & from the back of the interventricular septum; these posterior fibres pass downwards & to the right, with a somewhat considerable number of the posterior common superficial fibres, and get to the front of the apex. Here all the fibres, both anterior & posterior, curl inwards in a whirl-like manner, the anterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the posterior wall of the ventricle, and the posterior fibres going to form the three inner strata on the anterior wall. In the right ventricle the fibres of the three outer layers issue partly from the correspond- ing arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings, and are partly continuous with the posterior common superficial fibres. Descending spirally from left to right on the posterior aspect of the heart, and from right to left on the anterior aspect, they reach the anterior interventricular groove. Here a few fibres are continued on to the left ventricle, forming the anterior common superficial fibres; the greater number pass backwards, however, in the interventricular septum, at the back of which they decus- sate with the fibres of the left ventricle, and blend with the posterior common super- superficial fibres. It must be added that none of the fibres, except a few of the most superficial ones, can now be said to arise from the arterial & auriculo-ventricular rings. The strata are merely continued opposite these rings, the superficial ones into the deep ones, and vice versa.