268 UNDER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM I*i esents from before backwards IN THE MEDIAN LINE: Anterior part of the Longitudinal Fissure - Bounded behind by the anterior extremity or genu of the corpus callosum. Anterior Extremity or Genu of the Corpus Callosum - Curves down- wards and backwards. Its narrowing reflected portion, beak or rostrum, is connected with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two white bundles, the peduncles, which cross the anterior perforated space to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. Lamina Cinerea - A. turn layer of grey substance stretching, above the optic com- missure, with which it is connected, from the rostrum of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum, and continuous laterally with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space. Optic Commissure or Chiasma with the Optic Tracts - Vide Optic Nerve. Interpeduncular Space - Lozenge-shaped, comprised between the crura cerebri and the optic tracts, and containing from before backwards : Tuber Cinereum with the Inpundibulum & Pituitary Body - The former of which is a conical eminence of the grey matter of the floor of the 3rd ventricle connected by a hollow infundibuliform process, the infundi- bulum, with the latter, which latter is a small reddish grey vascular mass divided into an anterior & a posterior lobe, and the nature of which, especially in its anterior lobe, is very similar according to Dr. Sharpey, to that of the ductless or vascular glands. It is proportiona. tely larger in the foetus, and is then hollow, its cavity being continuou f with that of the 3rd ventricle. Corpora Albicantia - Two small round white bodies formed by the twisting upon themselves of the anterior crura of the fornix before they pass up to the optic thalami. Posterior Perforated Space - Formed by a layer of grey substance, which constitutes the posterior part of the floor of the 3rd ventricle and is continuous around the corpora albicantia with the base of the tuber cinereum. It is perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood vessels to the optic thalami. Crura Cerebri - Vide Mesocephalon. LATERALLY: Under Surface Of the Frontal Lobe - Presenting internally the lower end of the marginal convolution, on the outer side of which is the olfactory sulcus containing the olfactory nerve and bulb. Anterior Perforated Space -Formed by a layer of grey substance correspon- ding to the under surface of the corpus striatum, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of vessels to that body. It is bounded in front by the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe and the roots of the olfactory nerve, and behind & to the inner side by the optic tract & commissure, and is continued externally into the Fissure Of Sylvius-Which separates the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes ana divides on the outer surface of the cerebrum into two branches or limbs, which enclose the middle lobe or Island of Reil. Under Surface of the Temporo-sphenoidal Lobe. Behind these parts appear when the medulla oblongata & cerebellum are removed, in the median line : Middle part of the Transverse Fissure - Comprised between the corpora quadrigemina and the Posterior Extremity or Splenium of the Corpus Callosum - Behind which is the Posterior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure - And laterally the Under Surface of the Occipital lobe.