BRACHIAL ARTERY Commences at lower border of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi. Down inner & anterior aspects of arm in groove along inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps, lying at first on inner side, and then in front of, humerus,- its more precise direction being marked by a line drawn from outer side of axilla to midway between condyles of humerus Divides into radial & ulnar half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. RELATIONS ALONG THE ARM: In front - Skin and fascia, inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps} median nerve. Behind - Long and inner heads of triceps, superior profunda artery & musculo- spiral nerve; coraco-brachialis, brachialis anticu3. On Inner Side - Skin & fascia, internal cutaneous nerve, basilic vein j ulnar nerve in upper part, median nerve in lower part. On Outer Side - Coraco-brachialis & biceps, humerus in upper part. AT BEND OF ELBOW: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, median basilic vein, branches of anterior division of internal cutaneous nerve j bicipital or semilunar fascia. Behind - Brachialis anticus & elbow joint. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, median nerve. On Outer Side - Tendon of biceps, supinator longus, musculo-cutaneous & mug. culo-spiral nerves. BRANCHES Muscular — Irregular, to coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus. Nutritious] — From near middle of artery. Enters nutrient canal near insertion of coraco-brachialis, and descends towards lower extremity of the bone. Sup. Profunda ■— From upper part of artery. With musculo-spiral nerve in groove of same name between inner & outer heads of triceps, and then between supinator longus & brachialis anticus, where joins with radial recurrent. Gives off muscular branches, and an articular branch to back of elbow joint, which joins with interosseous & posterior ulnar recurrent, and with inferior profunda or anastomotica magna. Inf. Profunda — Small, from near middle of artery. With ulnar nerve through internal intermuscular septum, and then between inner condyle & olecranon j anastomoses with posterior ulnar recurrent & anastomotica magna. Anastomotica Magna — From lower part. Through internal intermuscular septum, and round back of humerus forming an arch above olecranon fossa with articular branch of superior profunda. Joins with anterior & posterior ulnar recurrent & with inferior profunda.