185 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Is a double or bilatoral condyloid articulation (Cruveilhier) comprised between the condyles of the lower jaw, on the one hand, and the anterior root of the zygoma & ante ior part of the glenoid cavity, on the other. The articulation is divided into two by an interarticular fibro- cartilage, and presents two synovial membranes, of which the upper one is the largest & loosest. The interarticular fibrocartilage is thickest at the periphery, especially behiad; its upper furface is concavo-convex from before backwards; its under surface is concave; its circumference is connected externally to the external lateral ligament, internally & in front to the tendon of the external pterygoid. - Occasionally it is perforated in the centre, the two synovial membranes then communicating. LIGAMENTS - Are • Capsular - Thin & loose; from Circumference of glenoid cavity &* eminentia articularis to Neck of Condyle ' * External Lateral - Broad band downwards & backwards from Outer surface 6r> tubercle of zygoma to Outer surface <S° posterior border of neck of condyle* Internal Lateral - Long & thin band from Spine of sphenoid to Inner margin of dentalforamen. -It is related externally the to external pterygoid muscle, internal maxillary artery, and inferior dental vessels & nerve. Stylo-Maxillary - Long thin band of somewhat secondary importance from Apex of styloid process to Angle 6° postei'ior border of ramus of jaw, where it spreads out considerably and marks the separation between parotid & submaxillary glands. MOVEMENTS - Are depression, elevation, projection, retraction, lateral displacement & cir- cumduction. In slight movements of elevation & depression the condyles simpljf rotate on a transverse axis upon the interarticular fibrocartilages. In moro extensive movements not only do the condyles rotate as above, but they also pass forwards with the interarticular fibrocartilages upon the eminentise articu- lares, the displacement being due to the laxity of the superior synovial mem- brane & to the action of the external lateral ligament. This displacement also takes place on the two sides alternately in the lateral or grinding move- xnent of the jaw, and on both sides simultaneously in the projection of the jaw forwards.