23. THE THORACIC AORTA. Commences at left side of lower border of 4th dorsal vertebra (some Authors say 3rd, some aay 5th). Descends through posterior mediastinum, curving slightly forwards and inolining slightly to the right, and ends at aortio opening of diaphragm in front of 12th dorsal verte- bra. -RELATIONS: In Front - Root of left lung, pericardium, oesophagus. Behind - Vertebras, vena azygos minor. To the Right - (Esophagus (above), vena azygos major, thoracio duot, To the Left - Left lung & pleura, oesophagus (below). BRANCHES : Pericardiac - Small, irregular; forwards to pericardium. Bronchial - The nutrient vessels of the lungs. On left side, generally two arising from thoracic aorta one above the other; on right side, but one usually arising either from first aortic intercostal, or from front of aorta in common with artery of left side. Along back of corresponding bronchus, dividing & subdividing upon bronchial tubes, and supplying bronchial glands & cellular tissue of lung; give a few twigs to cesophagu3. Oesophageal - Usually four or five from front of aorta. Descend obliquely upon oesopha- gus anastomosing with each other, and with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, inferior phrenic & gastric. Posterior Mediastinal - Small irregular branches to glands and cellular tissue of mediastinum. Aortic Intercostals - From back of aorta. Usually ten in number, sometimes only nine, the second intercostal space being sometimes supplied, as well as the first, by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. To corres- ponding intercostal space, passing on Left Side - Beneath smaller azyg03 & left superior intercostal veing, and left cord of sympathetic; Right Side - Round bodies of vertebrae beneath oesophagus, thoracio duct, greater azygos, & righo cord of sympathetic, - and divide v<sv^U^jjL. kJjumAJlk, into anterior & posterior branches. Anterior Branch, oe Intercostal Proper - Upon external intercostal muscle and beneath pleura & a thin layer of fascia, to lower border of rib above, and divides between the two intercostal muscles into branches: Superior - The larger; along groove on inner surface of rib above; Iiiferior - The smaller; along upper border of rib below, - which branches supply intercostal muscles, and anastomose with thoracio branches of axillary & anterior intercostal branches of internal mammary. The three last intercostals are prolonged between abdominal muscles, L, and anastomose with epigastric, inferior phrenic & lumbar; the first one OuLAjL$e Ast&o anastomoses with superior intercostal. - In the intercostal spaces the vein ^"T'^ usually lies above the trunk of the artery & its superior branch, and the * Posterior or Dorsal Branch - Backwards on inner side of superior or long costo- transverse ligament with posterior branch of corresponding spinal nerve, and divides into branches: Spinal - Through intervertebral foramen to cord & its membranes and pos- terior aspect of bodies of vertebrae. Muscular - Divides into internal offset to multifidus spinaa & integument near spine, and external offset^ which passes between sacro-lumbalis & longissimus dorsi to superficial muscles & integument