50 MUSCLES of UPPER LIMB—5th Tablet. Deltoid - Upper surface & anterior border of outer half of clavicle; upper surface & outer border of acromion j whole length of lower lip of posterior border of spine of scapula. Hough triangular prominence a little above middle of outer surface of shaft of humerus. - S. by circumflex nerve. Eubscapularis - Inner two-thirds of subscapular fossa ; tendinous laminae attached to ridges of said fossa; aponeurosis which separates it from teres major. Into lesser tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down. - S. by the two upper subscapular nerves from posterior cord of brachial plexus. Sfipraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of supraspinous fossa & fascia which covers it. Highest of the three facets on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. Infraspinatus - Inner two-thirds of infraspinous fossa & ridges on its surface; fasciae which separate it from the teres major & minor. Middle facet on greater tuberosity of humerus. - S. by suprascapular nerve. Teres Minor - Upper two-thirds of dorsal aspect of axillary border of scapula j intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres major. Lowest facet on greater tuberosity of humerus and by fleshy fibres into the neck for a short distance lower down - S. by a branch of circumflex nerve. Teres Major-Dorsal aspect of inferior angle of scapula; intermuscular septa which separate it from infraspinatus & teres minor. Inner or posterior edge of bicipital groove of humerus. - S. by a branch from lower subscapular nerve. LatissinTUS Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by the posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines and the back part of outer lip of crest of ilium; from outer lip of crest of ilium for an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four ribs interdigitating with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inferior angle of scapula. Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little higher up than teres major by a broad fiat tendon twisted upon itself. - S. by long subscapular nerve. Levator Angnli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or 5 upper cervical vertebrae between splenius & scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine & superior angle. - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Pthomboideus Minor - Ligamentum nuchas and spinous processes of 7th cervical & 1st dorsal vertebrae. Posterior border of scapula opposite triangular smooth surface at root of spine. - S. by one of the deep branches of cervical plexus and by one of the supra- clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Rhmoboidens Major-Spinous processes of the 4 or 5 upper dorsal vertebrae and supra- spinous ligament. Base of scapula between spine and inferior angle (Quain, Ellis), or rather nto a tendinous arch attached to the triangular smooth surface at root of spine & to the inferior angle and connected to posterior border of scapula by a thin membrane (Gray). - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by ome of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus.