216 THE SOFT PALATE. Musculo-membranous fold, which forms an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. Presents: Anterior Surface - Concave; presents a median raphe1, continuous with that of hard palate. Posterior Surface - Convex, continuous with floor of nasal fossae j presents the median pro. jection of the azygos uvulae. Upper Border - Attached to posterior border of hard palate. Lower Border - Free; presents the uvula and the anterior & posterior pillars, which two latter embrace the tonsil. Ante r i or Pillars - Downwards & forwards to sides of base of tongue; contain palato- glossi muscles. Posterior Pillars - Downwards & backwards to sides of pharynx; contain palato- pharyngei muscles Are rather broader and approach nearer to each other than the anterior. Isthmus Faucium - Is the space bounded by the free border & pillars of the soft palate, the tonsils, and the base of the tongue. STRUCTURE of the SOFT PALATE Presents for examination: APONEUROSIS — Blended with tendon of tensor palati. Is thickest above, where it is attached to posterior border of hard palate. MUSCLES — Five on each side: Levator Palati - Under surface of apex of petrous portion of temporal bone and outer aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Posterior surface of soft palate between the two heads of origin of palato-pharyngeus. - S. by post, or small palatine branch from Meckell's g. Tensor or CircumfleXUS Palati - Scaphoid fossa at base of internal ptery. goid plate; spine of sphenoid ; anterior aspect of cartilaginous portion of Eustachian tube. Winds round hamular process and expands upon anterior surface oi aponeurosis of soft palate. -S. by a branch from otic ganglion. Palato-gloSSUS - Anterior surface of soft palate. Posterior part of side of tongue, where it blends with stylo-glossus. Palato-pharyngeus - Posterior surface of soft palate by two heads separated by the levator palati. Posterior border of thyroid cartilage & sides of pharynx. AzygOS Uvul28 - Posterior nasal spine of palate bone & aponeurosis of soft palate. Uvula. - S. by posterior or small palatine branch from Meckell's gangl. MUCOUS MEMBRANE — Thin; covered with squamous epithelium, except near Eustachian tube, where the epithelium is columnar & ciliated. Numerous mucous glands are found beneath it, especially over posterior surface & uvula, in which latter situations they form a continuous layer. VESSELS & NERVES — Arteries. Inferior or ascending palatine, posterior or descending palatine, ascending pharyngeal, dorsalis linguae, tonsillar. - Veins. Join the tonsillar & pterygoid plexuses. - Lymphatics. To glanda beneath angle of jaw. - Nerves. From fifth, facial & glossopharyngeal.