95 THE ANKLE-JOINT. Is a ginglymoid articulation ARTICULAR SURFACES: - The Trochlea - Is formed by the Tipper articular surface & the two lateral facets of the astragalus. The upper articular surface is broadest in front, convex from before backwards, & slightly concave from side to side; its outer border is a little longer than the inner one, and is slightly curved inwards posteriorly. Of the two lateral facets, the external one is the largest. The Receiving Cavity - Is formed by the under surface of the lower extremity of the tibia, and by the outer & inner surfaces respectively of the internal & external malleoli. The under surface of the lower extremity of the tibia is quadrilateral, broadest in front, concave from before backwards, and marked by a slight antero- posterior elevation separating two shallow lateral depressions. Of the articular facets of the two malleoli, that of the outer one is the largest. LIGAMENTS - Are:- Anterior & Posterior - Very thin, especially the posterior one, and consisting merely of a few scattered fibres extending between the tibia & the astragalus at the mar- gin of their articular surfaces. - The fibres of the posterior ligament are mainly transverse. Internal Lateral - Consists of two layers: - Superficial Layer, or Deltoid Ligament - Strong triangular band, which radiates from Apex and anterior 6° posterior borders of internal malleolus to Inner part of scaphoid 6° inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; lesser process ofos calcis ; and back part of inner surface of astragalus. Deep Layer (Cruveilhier, Gray) - Short thick vertical band from Apex of internal malleolus to Inner surface of astragalus below its articular facet. External Lateral - Consists of three separate fasciculi: - Anterior Fasciculus - Short, thick, nearly horizontally from Anterior border of external malleolus to Astragalus in front of its external a?-ticular facet. Middle Fasciculus - Longer, rounded, from Apex of external malleolus to Middle of outer surface of os calcis. Posterior Fasciculus - The strongest, deeply situated ; nearly horizontally from Depression at inner &> back part of external malleolus to Astragalus behind its external articular facet as far as groove for flexor longus polluis. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE - Communicates with that of the inferior tibio.fibular articulation. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — From the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the termination of the anterior peroneal, and from the anterior tibial nerve. MOVEMENTS — Are flexion & extension with a slight amount of lateral mobility in the ex- tended position. - In the flexed position the wide anterior part of the trochlea lies in the narrow posterior part of the receiving cavity, and the posterior fibres of tha lateral ligaments are on the stretch ; all lateral movement is then impossible. In the extended position the narrow postei'ior part of the trochlea lies in the wide anterior part of the receiving cavity, and, the lateral ligaments being relaxed (except in forced extension), a considerable amount of lateral movement is per- mitted: -Adduction is produced by the tibialis anticus, abduction by the peronei. In forced extension, however, the anterior fibres of the lateral ligaments become tensed, and movement from side to side is again prohibited. — Forced extension fs accompanied by a slight amount of adduction in consequence of the outer border of the trochlea being a little longer than the inner one and slightly curved inwards posteriorly.