COVERINGS of the BRAIN & CORD-2nd Tablet. THE ARACHNOID Is a serous membrane of which the parietal layer lines the dura mater with a layer of squamous epithelial cells, while the visceral layer surrounds the brain & cord, from which it is sepa- rated by the subarachnoidean space. Visceral Layer of the Arachnoid of the Brain — On the upper surface of the hemispheres it is thin & transparent, and passes over the convolutions without dipping into the sulci. - At the base of the brain it is thicker and slightly opaque Crossing from side to side between the two temporo-sphenoidal lobes and between the two hemispheres of the cerebellum & the medulla oblongata, it bounds inferiorly the anterior &> posterior subarachnoidean spaces. It is reflected round the cranial nerves in the shape of loose sheaths as far as their point of exit from the skull, where it becomes continuous with the pai'ietal layer. Visceral layer of the Arachnoid of the Cord — Forms, especially in the lower part, but a loose sheath round the cord & the roots of the nerves. This sheath is single round the two roots of each spinal nerve, and is continued as far as their exit from the dura mater; the arachnoid is also reflected over the processes oi the ligamentum dentioulatum. THE SUBARACHNOIDEAN SPACE Is comprised between the pia mater & the visceral layer of the arachnoid, and contains the cerebro-spinal fluid. It usually communicates with the general ventricular cavity of the brain by an opening in the layer of pia mater which bounds the fourth ventricle inferiorly. It is narrow on the surfa3e of the hemispheres, but is greatly expanded both at the base of the brain in the situation of the anterior & posterior subarachnoidean spaces, and also round the spinal cord. It is crossed by numerous fibrous bands in the situation of the base of the brain and at the upper part of the back of the cord, and is partly subdivided by an incomplete membranous septum which connects the arachnoid with the pia mater opposite the posterior median fissure. N.B.—This being essentially a work on Descriptive Anatomy, it has not been thought desirable to alter at present the old description of the Arachnoid as a serous membrane. 32