63 FEMORAL ARTERY Commences beneath Poupart's ligament midway between antero-superior spine of ilium & symphysis pubis, and a little to inner side of head of femur. Passes down front & inner side of thigh, being at first at a distance from, and then close to, the shaft of the bone. Terminates at junction of middle and lower thirds of thigh, becoming popliteal artery in opening in lower part of adductor magnus. - Some Authors describe a common femoral artery descending as low down as the origin of the deep femoral, the main trunk below this branch being called the superficial femoral. Its direotion is marked by a line drawn from midway between antero-superior spine of ilium and symphysis pubis to inner side of inner condyle of femur. Hi EL AT IONS — Must be examined in Scarpa's triangle, or in upper third, and in middle third of thigh. IN SCARPA'S TRIANGLE — The artery divides the triangle into two nearly equal parts, and has In Front - Skin, superficial fascia, fascia lata (except opposite saphenous ope- ning, where latter is replaced by cribriform fascia), sheath; internal cu- taneous nerve & filaments of crural branch of genito-crural n.; inguinal lymphatic glands. Behind - Posterior part of sheath j psoas, pectineus, adductor longus ; profunda artery & vein. On Inner Side at Upper Part - Femoral vein, which becomes posterior below. On Outer Side - Psoas muscle, anterior crural & long saphenous nerves. IN MIDDLE THIRD OF THIGH — It lies behind sartorius in Hunter's canal, -a deep depression between vastus internus & tendons of adductors longus & magnus closed in anteriorly by a band of fascia,-and has femoral vein behind it & to its outer side, and long saphenous nerve to its outer side & in front. BRANCHES: Superficial Epigastric — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Through saphe- nous opening, and then upwards and inwards in superficial fascia of abdomen, and anastomoses with deep epigastric & internal mammary. Superficial Circumflex iliac — Arises close to Poupart's ligament. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of saphenous opening, and upwards & outwards be- low Poupart's ligament to crest of ilium. Anastomoses with circumflex iliac & gluteal arteries. Superficial or Sup. External Pudic — Arises near preceding. Inwards through saphenous opening, and then across spermatic ccrd or round liga- ment to integument of abdomen, penis & scrotum, or labia. Deep or Inf. External Pudic — Arises with or near preceding. Inwards be- neath fascia lata, which it pierces opposite pubes, to integument of perinaBiim & to scrotum or labia. Profunda Femoris, or Deep Femoral — "Vide next Tablet. Muscular Brs. — Numerous, and given off along entire course. Anastomotica magna — Arises in Hunter's canal. Descends upon tendon of adductor magnus, and divides into: Superficial Branch - With internal saphenous nerve to integument of inner side of knee. Deep Branch - Through substance of vastus internus to inner side of front of knee, and anastomoses with superior internal & superior external articu- lar arteries & with recurrent branch of tibial. COLLATERAL CIRCULAT. Is reestablished after ligature of the common femoral through the gluteal, ilio-lumbar & circumflex iliac arteries, which join with the external circumflex, through the obturator & sciatic, which join with the internal circumflex, through the comes nervi ischiadici, which join with the terminal & perforating branches of the profunda . - After ligature of the superficial femoral it is reestablished mainly through the deep femoral & its perforating branches, which join with the articular branches of the popli- taal.