196 ttLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The smallest- of the three divisions of the 8th pair. Arises from lateral tract of medulla oblongata abovepneumogastric. — Its deep origin is from a grey nucleus on floor of 4th ventricle. Through anterior & inner part of jugular foramen in front of pneumogastric & spinal accessory and in a separate sheath, grooving lower border of petrous portion of temporal hone and presenting two ganglia: Sup. or Jugular G. or G. op the Eoot — Small, and involves only the outer fibres j Inf. op Petrous G. or G. op Andersch — Larger, and involves whole of fibres. Gives off from petrous ganglion: Tympanic branch or Jacobsorts nerve, described below; Anastomotic br. to ganglion of the root 6° to auricular br. of the pneumogastric; and from a little below the ganglion : Anastomotic br. to facial nerve. — This branch pierces post, belly of digastric. Downwards & forwards in front of pneumogastric & between int. carotid & int. jugular vein. Beneath styloid process & muscles connected with it to lower border of stylo-pharyngeus. Curves inwards upon stylo-pharyngeus & middle constrictor. Beneath hyo-glossus to mucous membrane of fauces & base of tongue. BRANCHES: Tympanic Br. or JaCObson's N. — Arises from petrous ganglion. Ascends through small canal in petrous bone to tympanum, where divides into : Brs. of Communication — To carotid plexus and great 6° small petrosal branches official. Brs. of Distribution — To fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis &> mucous mem- brane of Eustachian tube. Carotid Brs. — Descend on internal carotid artery, and join pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastrio, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic. Pharyngeal Brs. —Three or fourj form pharyngeal plexus by joining opposite middle constrictor with pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic. Muscular Brs. — To stylo-pharyngeus & constrictors of pharynx. Tonsillar Brs. — To tonsil, foimring tonsillar plexus, branches of which are distri- j buted to soft palate & faucos. Lingual Brs. — To mucous membrane of base & side of tonerue.