290 TABLEAU of the CRANIAL NERVES. First or Olfactory - Arises "by three roots • Ext. or Long Root - From posterior border of fissure of Sylvius. Int. or Short Root - From posteriori inner part of anterior lobe. Middle or Grey Root - From caruncula mammillaris. - Presents olfactory process, olfactory bulb, terminal branches. SeCOlld Or Optic - From anterior 6° posterior quadrigeminal and internal 6° external geniculate bodies, and optic thalamus. - Presents optic tract, optic commissure or chiasma, & optic nerve proper. Third Or Motor Ocnli - From inner border of crus ce7'ebri just in front of Pons Varolii. - Supplies all the muscles of the orbit except superior oblique & external rectus, and gives off motor root to lenticular ganglion. Fourth, TrOChlearis Or PatheticUS - From upper part of valve of Vieussens. - Supplies superior oblique. Fifth, Trigeminal or Trifacial - Vide next Tableau. Sixth Or AbdllCenS - From constricted part of corpus pyramidale close to pons Varolii or from loiver border of pons itself. - Supplies external rectus. Facial Or Portio dura Of the 7 th - From upper part of lateral tract of medulla oblongata in groove between olivary & restiform bodies. Anastomoses - With auditory, glossopharyngeal, pneumogastric, auriculo~te?nporal,great auricular; - also large, small, & external petrosal nerves join Meckel's &* Arnold's ganglia fir* sympathetic. Branches - Large, small, <S° external petrosal, tympanic, chorda tympani, posterior auricular, muscular (to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric), teynporo- &° cervico-facial. Auditory Or Portio Mollis Of the 7th - From floor of 4>th ventricle, its fibres of origin forming the linece transversa, and also from the restiform body & perhaps from pons Varolii. - Divides into vestibular & cochlear nerves. GlOSSO-pharyngeal - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata above pneumogastric. Presents two ganglia in anterior or inner part of jugular foramen, the superior or jugular, and the inferior or petrous. Anastomoses - With pneumogastric & facial, and through Jacobsun's nerve with carotid plexus and great &* small petrosal nerves. Branches ~ Tympanic, carotid,pharyngeal, muscular (to stylo-pbaryngeus & constric- tors ), tonsillar, lingual. Pneumogastric - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata below glosso-pharyngeal 6° above spinal accessory. - Presents two ganglia,- superior or jugular, small, rounded, situated in jugular foramen,-inferior or petrosal, large, cylindrical, situated below the foramen. Anastomoses - With facial, the two other branches of the 8th, hypoglossal, sympathetic, loop between the tzvo first ce>vical nerves. Branches - Auricular,pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, inferior or recurrent laryngeal, cardiac, pulmonary, esophageal 6° gastric. Spinal Accessory - ACCESSORY PORTION - From lateral tract of medulla oblongata below pneumogastric. Joins pneumogastric, and assists in forming the pharyngeal, stiperior & inferior laryngeal branches of the latter. SPINAL PORTION - From lateral column of the cord as low as 5th or 6th cervical nerves. - Enters skull through foramen magnum, leaves it through jugular fora- men in same sheath as pneumogastric, and supplies under surface of trapezius Hypoglossal - From groove between anterior pyramid & olivary body by ten or twelve filaments, which form two bundles. Leaves skull through anterior condyloid foramen. Anastomoses - With fneumogastric, sympathetic, two first cervical nerves & gustatory. Branches -Descendens noni, muscular (to thyro- & genio-hyoid), lingual (to stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus. genio-hvo-glossus & substance of the tongue).