243 THE LUNGS. Light, porous, crepitant, elastic. Of a pinkish white at birth, of a mottled Siate oolonr in the adult ♦ the mottling be- coming darker & darker as age advances. Smooth & shining, marked out by dark lines into polygonal spaces corresponding to the bases of the superficial lobules, which spaces are variously crossed by other more delicate lines. Conical in shape, and present : - Outer Surface - Convex, deepest behind. Presents on either side a deep fissure oblique downwards & forwards from near apex to base, and, on the right side, another fissure oblique upwards & forwards from the middle of the foregoing. By these fissures the left lung is divided into two lobes, the right one into three; the inferior lobe is the largest in both lungs, and the middle lobe of the right side, the smallest of all. Inner Surface - Concave, deeply excavated in front, especially on the left side, to make room for the heart; presents the hilum a little above & behind its middle. Anterior Border - Thin, oblique, shorter than the posterior, deeply notched inferiorly on the left side so as to expose the pericardium; comes in contact with its fellow behind middle of sternum, the pleurae alone being interposed. Posterior Border - Thick, rounded, vertical, longer than the anterior. Base - Broad, concave, oblique downwards & backwards ; rests upon diaphragm, and its circumference fits into the groove between the diaphragm & the ribs. Descends lower down on the left side than on the right. ApeZ - Passes up into root of neck an inch or an inch & a half above first rib, and, under cover of the scaleni, comes into close contact with first & second portions of sub- clavian artery. The Right Lung is the shortest in consequence of the diaphragm ascending higher on the right side than on the left; the broadest owing to the inclination of the heart to the left; and somewhat the largest. - The Left Lung is the longest, narrowest, and somewhat the smallest. THE ROOT of the LUNG Consists of the bronchus, pulmonary & bronchial vessels, lymphatic vessels & glands, and pulmonary plexuses of the pneumogastric & sympathetic, which parts are all enclosed in a pleural sheath, and are bound together by areolar tissue in the following order: From Before Backwards On Either Side: - Pulmonary veins with the anterior pulmonary plexus; Pulmonary artery ; Bronchus with the bronchial vessels, lymphatics vessels &> glands, and the posterior pulmonary plexus. From Below Upwards On Right Side - Pulmonary veins, pulmonary artery, bronchus, with &c. On Left Side - Ptdmonary veins, bronchus, pulmonary artery. THE ROOT OF THE RIGHT LUNG — Lies behind the superior vena cava & che ri^ht auricle; the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. THE ROOT OF THE LEFT LUNG — Passes beneath the arch of the aorta; behind it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct. - The root of each lung has also in front of it the phrenic nerve, and behicd it, the pneumogastric.