•29?, PUDIC NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudic artery through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior hae norrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall ofischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perinaeal nerve & dorsal nerve of the penis. PERINEAL NERVE — The larger. Accompanies superficial perineal artery, and divides into branches: - Cutaneous or Superficial Perinaeal - Two in number: Posterior or Internal - Gives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to the sphincter ani, Gray), and communicates with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve. It then passes forwards to the scrotum or labium on the inner side of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorly. Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu- ment of'peni3, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferior pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani. Muscular - Generally arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inwards under cover of transversus perinsei, and supplies anterior extremity of sphincter ani, transversus perinsei, erector penis, accelerator urinae & com- pressor urethrae; a twig is given to the bulb of the urethra. DORSAL NERVE OP THE PENIS — The smaller. With pudic artery along rami of ischium & pubes between the two layers of d°ep p rinse il fascia, and through suspensory l;gament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Supplies skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpus cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve oj clitoris in female is smaller, but similarly distributed Inferior Hemorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus. Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off num- erous branches to sphincter ani & integument round anus 5 communicates with superficial perinaeal & inferior pudendal. INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY. (Vide page 159.) Tortuous course upwaidi & inwnrds behind common carotid artery & sympathetic nerve, (the middle '-ervical ganglion, when present, resting upon it) to under surface of thyroid gland, and anastomo-es with the other thyroid arteries. - Gives off branches: Ascending Cervical - Ascends between scalenus anticus & rectus capitis anticu3 major; gives branches to deep muscles of neck, and, through the inter- vertebral foramina, to spinal cord & its membranes and bod'63 of the vertebra?. Laryngeal - Upon trachea to back of larynx; supplies muscles & mucous mem- brane. Thacheal - Join below with bronchial. (Esophageal - Descend upon oesophagus.