83 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB—6th Tablet. POSTERIOR TIBIO-PIBULAR REGION. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Gastrocnemius. ^ Inner Head - Depression at tipper and back part of inner condyle. Outer Head - Depression at upper & baok part of outer condyle above groove for popliteus. - Both heads also arise from lower part of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. By a strong aponeurosis which covers front of the muscle, and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of soleus, into lower part of posterior surface of os calcis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. SoleilS - Back of head & upper third of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; middle third of inner border and oblique line on posterior surface of shaft of tibia; tendinous arch between tibial & fibular origins of the muscle beneath which arch pass posterior tibial vessels & nerve. By a strong aponeurosis which covers posterior surface of the muscle and contracts into a tendon which joins with that of gastrocnemius (Tendo Achillis), into lower part of posterior surface of os calcis. — S. by internal popliteal nerve. Plailtaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera & post', ligament of knee-joint. Joins inner border of tendo Achillis. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. DEEP LAYER. Popliteus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Inner two-thirds of triangular surface on back of upper part of tibia above oblique line. - S. by internal popliteal nerve. Flexor LongUS Pollicis - Lower two-thirds of posterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peronei; fascia over tibialis posticus. Base of the last phalanx of great toe. - S. by posterior tibial nerve. Flexor LongUS Digitorum. - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & internally to attachment of tibialis posticus; fascia over tibialis posticus. Bases of last phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by posterior tibial nervo. Tibialis Posticus - Posterior surface of shaft of tibia below oblique line & externally to attachment of flexor longus digitorum; nearly whole of posterior surface of interosseous membrane ; upper three-fourths of inner surface of shaft of fibula; fascia between it & foregoing muscles. Tuberosity of scaphoid and internal & external cuneiform bones. - Supplied by posterior tibial nerve.