70 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB—3rd Tablet. ANTERIOR TIBIOFIBULAR REGION. Tibialis Anticus - Outer tuberosity & upper two-thirds of outer surface of shaft of tibia; adjoining part of the interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & extensor longus digitorum; deep fascia. Inner & under surfaces of internal cuneiform bone & base of first meta. tarsa\. — !5. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor LongUS Digitorum - Outer tuberosity of tibia ; upper three-fourths of an- terior surface of shaft of fibula 5 interosseous membrane; septa between it and tibialis anticus & peronei muscles; deep fascia. Bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of four outer toes. -S. by anterior tibial nerve. Extensor Proprius Pollicis - Middle two-fourths of anterior surface of shaft of fibula internally to extensor longus digitorum ; interosseous membrane. Base of last phalanx of great toe. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. PeroneUS Tertius - Lower fourth of anterior surface of shaft of fibula; lower part of interosseous membrane; intermuscular septum between it & peroneus brevis. Base of 5th metatarsal bone. - S. by anterior tibial nerve. FIBULAR REGION. PeroneUS LongUS - Head & upper two-thirds of outer surface & of anterior & posterior borders of fibula j intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg ; deep fascia. Outer side of base of first metatarsal bone. - S. by musculocutaneous branch of external popliteal nerve. Peroneus Brevis - Lower two-thirds of outer surface of shaft of fibula, passing upwards in a pointed process beneath peroneus longus; intermuscular septa between it & muscles of front & back of leg. Base of fifth metatarsal bone. - S. by musculo-outaneous branch of exter- nal popliteal nerve. MUSCLES of the FOOT. DORSAL REGION. Extensor Brevis Digitorum 7 Outer & upper surfaces of greater process of os calcis, calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, anterior annular ligament of tarsus. First phalanx of great toe & outer sides of long extensor tendons of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th toes. - S. by external branch of anterior tibial nerve.