292 THE ABDOMINAL APONEUROSES. Are the anterior abdominal aponeurosis, or abdominal aponeurosis proper, which is strengthened posteriorly hy the fascia transversalis, and the lumbarfascia. ANTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS — Is formed by aponeuroses of external & internal oblique, and by anterior aponeurosis of transversalis, which aponeuroses may be considered as expanded tendons of insertion. They all three assist in forming the linea alba & the sheath of the APONEUROSIS OF EXTERNAL OBLIQUE — The strongest & widest of the three, and widest at its lower part; blended with aponeurosis of internal oblique in front of rectus and for some distance on either side, especially at upper part. Its fibres are oblique downwards & forwards, and form in succession Poupart's ligament, Gimbemat's ligament, Outer or inferior pillar of external abdominal ring, Inner or Superior pillar. Superficial part of liuea alba by decussating with their fellows, and perhaps also after decussating, the Triangular ligament & the Intercolum- nar fibres of the opposite side. Poupart's Ligament - Strong curved band extending from anterior superior spine of ilium to spine of pubes, convex downwards & outwards, blended interiorly with iliac fascia, internally with outer pillar of external abdominal ring, posteriorly with deep crural arch. Gimbemat's Ligament - Small triangular process reflected downwards, outwards & backwards - from inner part of Poupart's ligament to ilio-pectineal line, and of which the outer concave margin forms inner boundary of femoral ring. Outer or Inferior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Blended with roupart's ligament and attached with it to spine of pubes. Curves round inferior aspect of spermatic cord so as to form a groove upon which the cord rests. Inner or Superior Pillar of External Abdominal Ring - Broad, thin; interlaces with its fellow in front of symphysis. Linea Alba - Vide Below. Triangular Ligament-A triangular band lying behind inner pillar of external abdominal ring & Gimbemat's ligament and in front-of conjoined tendon, and extending from lower part of linea alba to ilio-pectineal line. It is formed according to some anatomists by prolongation across median line of lowest of those fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique of oppsite side which enter into formation of linea alba. Intercolumnar Fibres - Are interwoven at right angles -with, and bind together, the fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique, and more particularly those fibres which form the pillars of external abdominal ring. They extend downwards and outwards from middle & lower parts of linea alba to middle of Poupart's ligament describing curves convex inferiorly, and are said to be the continuation beyond the linea alba of middle fibres of aponeurosis of external oblique of opposite side. - Continuous with this layer of fibres is the intercolunmar or external spermatic fascia, thin closely adherent to margins of exter- nal abdominal ring, and prolonged downwards into a tubular process around cord & testis. APONEUROSIS OF INTERNAL OBLIQUE — Thinner & rather narrower than fore- going, and narrowest at lower part. Divides opposite upper three-fourths of rectus into two layers, which blend, the one with aponeurosis of external oblique, the other with that of transversalis, and which pass, the one in front of, the other behind rectus, and again unite at " linea alba. Passes wholly in front of lower part of rectus. ANTERIOR APONEUROSIS OF TRANSVERSALIS - The narrowest of the three, especi- ally above, where some muscular fibres extend a little behind rectus. Passes behind rectus in its upper three-fourths, blending with posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. Passes in front of rectus in its lower fourth, blending with aponeurosis of external & internal oblique. SHEATH OF RECTUS — Is therefore complete in front and incomplete behind, where it corresponds only to upper three-fourths of the muscle ; the deficiency in posterior wall of sheath being marked superiorly by the Fold of Douglas, a well defined fibrous band concave inferiorly. In front it is formed by all three aponeuroses below, but only by aponeurosis of external oblique & anterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique, above. Behind, it is formed, where it exists, by aponeurosis of transversalis & posterior layer of aponeurosis of internal oblique. LIJSTEA ALBA — Tendinous raphe from ensiform cartilage to pubes, bounded by inner borders of recti; narrow below & broad above; perforated by numerous vascular & nervous foramina, and by umbilicus, opposite which it is closely adherent to integument. LINEiE SEMILUNARIS — Two curved depressed linear spaces produced on either side of recti, by absence of muscular fibres between these muscles and inner margin of muscular portion of internal oblique & transversalis. POSTERIOR ABDOMINAL APONEUROSIS OR LUMBAR FASCIA - Formed by posterior aponeurosis of transversalis, the postenor layer of which aponeurosis is blended with vertebral aponeurosis and with aponeuroses of latissimus dorsi & serratus posticus inferior. POSTERIOR OR VERTEBRAL APONEUROSIS OF TRANSVERSALIS - Divided mto three layers. Posterior Or Superficial Layer - The strongest. Attached to apices of spinous processes of lumbar & sacral vertebra?, and blends with aponeuroses above mentioned. Gives origin to middle fibres of internal oblique, and binds down erector spina?. Middle Layer - Of considerable strength. Separates erector spina? from quadratus lumborum, and becomes attached to apices of transverse processes of lumbar vertebra). Anterior Layer - The thinnest. Covers anterior aspect of quadratus lumborum, forming super- iorly the liganientum arcuatum externum, and becomes attached to bases of transverse processes*