96 FASCIAE & SYNOVIAL MEMBEANES of the TAKSUS. FASCIAE — Are rather ligaments than fasoiss proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior7 Annular Ligament - Consists of two portions connected by a thin inter- vening layer of fascia. Superior or Vertical Portion - Of considerable breadth & continuous super- iorly with deep fascia of leg. It extends from lower part of anterior border of tibia to lower part of anterior border of fibula. Inferior or Horizontal Portion. - Narrower and continuous anteriorly with deep fascia over dorsum of foot. It extends from upper surface of os calcis, in front of groove for interosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, to internal malleolus & inner border of plantar fascia. Beneath anterior annular ligament pass from within outwards: - 1. - Tendon of tibialis anticus contained throughout in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of extensor proprius pollicis contained in a synovial sheath beneath the inferior or horizontal portion of the ligament only. 3. - Anterior tibial vessels & nerve. 4. - Tendons of extensor longus digitorum &* peroneus tertius enclosed throughout in one synovial sheath. Internal Annular Ligament - Strong fibrous band continuous superiorly with deep fascia of leg, and giving origin inferiorly to innermost fibres of abductor pollicis. It extends obliquely from internal malleolus to inner surface of oa calcis. Beneath it pass from before backwards & outwards: - j. - Tendon of the tibialis posticus contained in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of the flexor longus digitortim contained in another synovial sheath. 3. — Posterior tibial vessels &* nerve. 4. - Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis also contained in a synovial sheath, and situated at a considerable depth in a groove on posterior surface of astragalus. External Annular Ligament-Narrower & thinner band extending from exter. nal malleolus to outer surfaco of os calcis, and beneath whioh pass Tendons of peronei both enclosed in one synovial sheath. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Six: - j. - Synovial membrane of posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. 2. — Synovial membrane common to the anterior calcaneo^astragaloid dr» astragalo-scaphoid articulations. 3. - Synovial membrane of calcaneocuboid articulation. 4. - General synovial membrane of the tarsus comprised between the scaphoid & the three cuneiform bones, between the three cunei- form bones, between the external cuneiform bone & the cuboid, between the middle & external cuneiform bones on the one hand and the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones on the other, between the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones. - Sometimes there is a separate synovial membrane between the scaphoid & the cuboid. j". - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the cuboid and the 4th &■» jth metatarsal bones. 6. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the first cuneiform bone dr» the first ?netatarsal. TendinOUS - Vide Annular Ligaments.