102 SURGICAL ANATOMY of INGUINAL HERNIA. Principal points of interest are the coverings of the hernia, and the relations of the neck of the sac & of the seat of stricture. - For the rest see "Inguinal Hernia" among Tablets on Surgery. COVERINGS — Differ in the oblique & direct forms, and are slightly modified also in the congenital & infantile varieties of the former, and in the external & internal varieties of the latter. They are as follows:— OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA Of the Adult From within Outwards : Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, infundibuliform fascia% cremasteric fascia, intercolumnar fascia, superficial fascia, skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, infundibuliform fascia, subserous areolar tissue, peritoneu7>i. Congenital Variety - Descends directly into tunica vaginalis through pouch of peritoneum which accompanies cord & testis into scrotum, and which has abnormally remained unclosed. Its coverings are the same as those of testicle: - Skin, dartos, intercolumnar fascia, cremasteric fascia, fascia propria, tunica vaginalis reflexa. Infantile Variety - Descends into the still patent upper part of the imper~ fectly closed pouch of peritoneum, and becomes more or less completely invested, especially in front, by the posterior part of the tunica vagin- alis reflexa. Its coverings are the same as those of foregoing variety with two additional layers of peritoneum DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA Internal or Common Variety - (Protrudes through inner part of Hessel. bach's triangle, on inner side of obliterated hypogastric artery ). From, within Outwards : Peritoneum, subserous areolar tissue, fascia transversalis (the general f. tr., not the infundibuliform process) conjoined tendon (or not, since it is frequently ruptured instead of being pushed forwards) intercolunmar fascia} superficial fascia, skin. From without Inwards : Skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar fascia, conjoined tendon (or not), fascia transversalis, subserous areolar tissue peritoneum. External Variety - (Protrudes through outer part of Hesselbach's triangle, on outer side of obliterated hypogastric artery, & externally to the s conjoined tendon) - This exceptional form of inguinal hernia, passes through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal, and greatly re- sembles the oblique hernia both by presenting a certain degree of obliquity and by having very nearly the same coverings; the covering ( derived from the cremasteric fascia is alone rather less complete. RELATIONS OF NECK OF SAC & SEAT OF STRICTURE - The neck of the sac lies IN OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA - On outer side of epigastric artery and in front of spermatic cord, the elements of which may, however, be more or less scattered round the neck of the sac. IN DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA - On inner side of epigastric artery, in from & slightly on inner side of spermatic cord. On account of the uncertainty of the diagnosis between the oblique & direct hernise it is an accepted rule in surgery to divide a deef seated stricture directly upwards from middle of upper margin Oj constricting ring, that is to say in the direction of the epigastric vessels