43 MUSCLES of FRONT of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Pronator Radii Teres. Large or Superficial Head - Inner condyle & inner border of humerus im- mediately above it, deep fascia of forearm, intermuscular septum between it & flexor carpi radialis. Small or Deep Head - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna below flexor sublimis digitorum. Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft of radius. - S. by median nerve. Flexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; in. termuscular septa on either side. Front of base of 2nd metacarpal bone, & slightly into that of 3rd. — S. by median nerve. Palmaris LongUS - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; inter- muscular septa on either side. Anterior annular ligament of carpus and palmar fascia. - S. by median nerve. Flexor C arpi Ulnaris. Anterior or Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; intermuscular septum between it & palmaris longus. Posterior or Outer Head - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to the flexor profundus, from upper two-thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna. Pisiform bone and slightly into annular ligament & base of 5th metacarpal bone. - S. by ulnar nerve. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon, and internal lateral liga- ment of elbow-joint. Middle Head - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna above pronator radii teres. Outer Head - Oblique line on front of radius. Sides of second phalanges. - S. by median nerve. DEEP LAYER: Flexor Profundus Digitorum " Depression on inner side of coronoid process of ulna, upper two-thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an apon- eurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, from upper two- thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna; inner half of interosseous membrane. Bases of tbird phalanges. - S. partly by ulnar nerve, partly by an- terior interosseous branch of median nerve. Flexor LongUS Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft of radius; outer half of interosseous membrane; occasionally by a small slip from inner side of coronoid process. Base of last phalanx of thumb. - S. by antei'ior interosseous branch of median nerve. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner border of ulna; aponeurosis which covers inner third of the muscle. Lower fourth of anterior surface & outer border of radius. - S. by anterior interosseous branch of median nerve. MUSCLES of OUTER SIDE of FOREARM. Supinator LongUS - Upper two-thirds of external condyloid ridge of humerus, ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Outer side of base of styloid process of radius. - S. by musculo-spiral n. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior - Lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus, external intermuscular septum. Back of base of second metacarpal bone. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. \ Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior - External condyle of humerus by a tendon j common to it & to superficial muscles of back of forearm; external lateral liga* J ment of elbow-joint; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Back of base of third metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous u.