98 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE—1st Tablet. Is a broad triangular depression Situated at upper, inner, & front part of thigh; Bounded by Poupart's ligament, sartorius & adductor longua; Contimced downwards 6° inwards into a superficial furrow, which marka position ot femoral artery in Hunter's canal Its floor is formed from without inwards by iliacus, psoas, pectineus, & small part of adductor brevis. It contains femoral vessels & anterior crural nerve, and the PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA — These parts are SKIN — Thin, freely movable, more or less studded with hairs at upper & inner part. SUPERFICIAL FASCIA — Divided into two layers by superficial vessels & nerves & inguinal lymphatic gland*. Superficial Layer - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with subcutaneous tissue of surrounding regions; is rather thinner & less loaded with fat towards lower part of triangle. DEEP LAYER - Thin & membranous. Adherent superiorly to Poupart's ligament. Stretches over saphenous opening under the name of "cribriform fascia" which fascia is per- forated by internal saphenous vein & by numerous smaller blood & lymphatic vessel*, and is attached firmly to outer margin of the opening, & slightly to the inner margin. Superficial Vessels & Nerves and Lymphatic Glands - Are the: Internal saphenous vein ; Superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, superficial externalprudic arterieswith tlie corresponding veins, which latter open mto internal saphenous near its termination; Ilioinguinal, crural branch of genito-crural, &= external cutaneous nerves. Lymphatic glands - Form two groups. Those of the Superior or abdominal group - Are the smaller, and are placed transversely near Poupart's ligament; - they receive lymphatics of perns, scrotum, perinacum, lower part of abdomen & buttock; - those of the Inferior or femoral group - Are the larger, and are vertically disposed round upper part of saphenous vein ; - they receive the lymphatics of lower limb. DEEP FASCIA or FASCIA LATA — Dense, fibrous. Presents the saphenous opening, for easier description of which it is usually divided into two portions, the iliac & the pubic. ILIAC Portion - The thicker. Attached to crest of ilium, Poupart's ligament & spine of pubes. Is reflected dowmvards & outwards from this latter point, first bounding the superiof angle, or superior cornu of the opening, then forming its outer margin. This outer margin is the falciform process of Burns; its upper part is often called Hey's femoral ligament. Superiorly this margin overlies the sheath of the femoral vessels. Infer- iorly it becomes continuous with pubic portion of the fascia lata by a well defined curved border, which forms the inferior angle, or inferior comu of the opening. Pubic Portion - Much thinner. Is attached to pubic arch at upper and inner part of thigh, and is continuous with iliac portion opposite lower cornu of saphenous opening. Prom this point it is prolonged upwards & outwards behind femoral sheath & in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to ilio-pectineal line. Saphenous Opening - Is formed therefore by the slitting of the fascia lata & by the folding of the two sides of the slit one over the other. It is oval in shape, broad below, narrow above, \\ inches long, \ an inch wide. Its Outer Boundary & its Superior Angle or Cornu, - Which are prominent & well defined, are formed by iliac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament), which portion, as already stated, passes upwards & inwards in front of the femoral sheath, and becomes attached to Poupart's ligament & spine of pubes. -Its Inner Boundary - Depressed & less clearly defined, is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which portion, as already stated, passes upwards & outwards behind femoral sheath & in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to the ilio-pectineal line. -Its Inferior Angi S or Cornu - Is formed by the junction of the iliac & pubic portions of the fascia lata just below opening of internal saphenous vein into the femoral FEMORAL SHEATH - Vide next Tablet.