209 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. Arises from internal carotid as that vessel emerges from cavernous sinus between optio nerve tb anterior olinoid proeess. Through optio foramen below & on outer side of optic nerve. Over optio nerve, and forwards beneath superior oblique to superior internal angle of orbit, where divides into frontal & nasal. BRANCHES — May be divided into* ORBITAL GROUP: Lachrymal - With lachrymal nerve & above external rectus to lachrymal glana & upper eyelid. Gives off small malar & temporal branches, which per- forate temporal bone to temporal fossa & cheek. Supraorbital - With frontal nerve & above the muscles to supraorbital foramen, where divides into superficial & deep branches to integument & muscles of forehead & pericranium. Ethmoidal - Anterior & posterior. Through anterior & posterior ethmoidal foramina (former with nasal nerve), giving branches to ethmoidal cells & dura mater, and then through foramina in cribriform plate of ethmoid to septum & outer wall of nose. Palpebral - Superior & inferior. Encircle eyelids near free margin & beneath orbicularis, and anastomose with infraorbital & with orbital branch of temporal. Frontal - From orbit at its superior internal angle to skin & muscles of forehead & pericranium, joining with supraorbital. Nasal - Above tendo oculi, and divides into dorsalis nasi to dorsum of nose and anastomotic branch to angular branch of facial, OCULAR GROUP: Muscular - Very variable, usually divided into: Superior - Smaller, to levator palpebrae superioris, superior rectus & supe. rior oblique; Inferior - Larger, to inferior oblique & the other recti, and gives off most of the anterior ciliary arteries. Ciliary - May be divided into: SHORT POSTERIOR - Surround optic nerve, and through sclerotic a line or two from the nerve to ciliary processes & choroid. LONG - Two. Through back part of sclerotic, and between sclerotic & choroid on either side of eyeball to ciliary body, where bifurcate and form great arterial circle of iris, from which small twigs converge to free margin of iris forming lesser arterial circle. ANTERIOR - Chiefly from muscular. Through sclerotic a line or two from margin of cornea to great arterial circle of iris. Centralis Retin33 - Pierces optic nerve, and forwards in its substance to retina. In foetus a small branch passes forwards through vitreous body to posterior part of capsule of lens.