294 THE CLASSIFICATION of JOINTS. The joints may be divided into: SYNARTHROSES — The bones are immoveably interlocked, and are in almost imme- diate contact, being separated only by a thin layer of periosteum termed the sutural ligament, and, at the base of the skull, by a thin layer of cartilage. - The varieties are the: Sutura Vera - The bones present a series of processes & indentations, which fit in with each other. The subvarieties are the: S. Dentata - The interlocking processes are large & ramified. - Ex.: Sagittal St* lamboid sutures. S. Sekrata - The interlocking processes are smaller & more regular. - Ex.: Tem- porary suture in middle line of frontal bone. S. Limbosa - The articular surfaces are more or less bevelled, and one overlaps the other. - Ex.: Fronto-parietal suture. Sutura Notha Or False Suture - A mere apposition of rough surfaces. - The subvarieties are the : S. Squamosa - Considerable overlapping of extensively bevelled surfaces. - Ex.: Temporoparietal suture. S. Harmonica - Apposition in the mesial line of two symmetrical & vertically cut surfaces. - Ex.: Articulation betzveen the two halves of the upper jaw. Schindylesis - A thin plate of bone is received into a cleft formed by the separation of the two plates of another bone. - Ex.: Articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer. Gomphosis - The implantation of the teeth into the alveolar processes. ABUPHXARTHROSES — The bones are bound together alniost immoveably by means of thick plates of fibro-cartilage extremely adherent to each bone, and by strong external ligaments. In some cases the articular surfaces are partly covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and are partly lined with synovial membrane. The one class of amphiarthroses resemble the synarthroses, the other class resemble the diarthroses. DIARTHROSES — The bones are bound together by means of external ligaments lined with synovial membrane, and the articular surfaces are covered with cartilage. Plates or rings of fibro-cartilage are sometimes included within the articular cavity, which cavity they occasionally divide into two distinct parts. - The arthrodiaa having recently been subdivided by Cruveilhier into arthi-odiaa proper, condyloid articulations, & articulations by reciprocal reception, the varieties of the diarthroses may now be enumerated as follows (in the order of decreasing variety & decreasing extent of the movements they admit) - : Snarthroses - Globular head received into a cup-shaped cavity. "Well defined capsu- lar ligament. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, & rotation. - Ex: Hip-joint. Articulations by Reciprocal Reception - Articular surfaces inversely convex in one direction & concave in the other. Capsular ligament less perfect & complete than in the enai-throses. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, ab- duction, & circumduction j there is no of axial rotation. - Ex: Articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. Condyloid Articulations - Ovoid articular head, or condyle, received into an elliptical cavity. Strong anterior, posterior & lateral ligaments. Flexion & ex« . tension very free; adduction, abduction & circumduction, rather less so; m I axial rotation. Ex: Wrist joint. Ginglymi-Trochlear surface on the one hand, cavity of reception to correspond, on the other. Strong lateral ligaments; anterior & posterior ligaments but slightly marked. Flexion & extension only. Ex: Elbow joint. Diarthroses Rotatorii - Pivot-like process turning in an osteo-fibrous ring, J osteo-fibrous ring rotating upon an axial process. Rotatory movements only. Ex: Stiperior 6° inferior radio-ulnar articulations. Arthrodise Proper - Articular surfaces fiat or nearly so. Thin & loose capsules. Only gliding movements, which movements are never very extensive. Ex: Acromio-clavicular articulation.