119 THE PANOEEAS. Lfes behind stomach & lesser bag of peritoneum opposite first lumbar vertebra. It is long, narrow, flattened from before backwards, & of a reddish cream-colour, and presents» Head, or Right Enlarged Extremity - Curves downwards, and is embraced by con- cavity of duodenum, the ductus communis choledochus & the pancreatico- duodenal arteries lying between the two organs, the former behind, the latter in front. - The lower & back part of the head (sometimes detached from the remainder of the gland, and then called the lesser pancreas), passes to the left behind superior mesenteric vessels, forming the posterior wall of an incomplete canal in which these vessels are enclosed. Body, or Central Flattened Portion - Presents: Anterior Surface - Convex, covered by peritoneum belonging to lesser bag, & by posterior surface of stomach. Posterior Surface - Concave; in relation with : Pillars of diaphragm, left quadratics lumborum, left kidney &* left suprarenal capsule; Aorta, vena cava, mesenteric vessels, commencement of vena portce, &■» left renal vessels. Upper Border - Thick, corresponds to coeliac axis, and is deeply grooved for splenia artery & vein. Lower Border - Thinner, separated from transverse portion of duodenum by superior mesenteric vessels. Lesser End, or Tail - Lies a little higher than the head, in contact with left kidney & left suprarenal capsule, & lower & back part of spleen, to which latter organ it is slightly adherent* PANCREATIC DUCT, or CANAL OF WXRSUNG — Runs from left to right through whole length of the gland, lying in the vicinity of its anterior surface & lower border. In the head it curves downwards on left side of ductus com- munis choledochus. Both ducta then perforate together the muscular coat of the intestine, run side by side for about three-quarters of an inch beneath mucous membrane, and open by a common orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. The duct from the lesser pancreas opens into canal of Wirsung near its termination, or, sometimes, forms a supplementary canal which opens separately into duodenum an inch or more above canal of Wirsung. STRUCTURE! — The pancreas is a rncemose or conglomerate gland and is very similar to the salivary glands, excepting that its tissue is somewhat softer & looser. Vessels & Nerves - Arteries from the splenic and superior & inferior pancreatico- duodenal. - Veins open into the splenic & mesenteric. - Lymphatics oaen into the lumbar glands. - Nerves are from solar plexus.