222 THE NASAL FOSSiE. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones, and between the roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull. Formed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbin- ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary). Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present: HOOF — Narrow, and is from before backwards : Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone & nasal spine of frontal, Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid, Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from before backwards : Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve ; Half crest for pei^pendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory foramina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Openings of sphenoidal sinuses partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones; Articulation of alee of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR -"" Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary & palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & tho Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in tho Anterior & posterior nasal spines. INNER WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid above & in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondarily by nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which is filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vascular & nervous furrows & Naso-palatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL — Formed by: Lacrymal bone & nasal process of superior maxillary ; Inner surface of ethmoid, superior maxillary & inferior turbinated bones ; Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid process. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards: Superior turbinated process of ethmoid ; Superior meatus, into which open the sphenoidal & posterior ethmoidal sinuses and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are shoi*t and are situated at the posterior and upper part of the nares; Middle turbinated process of ethmoid ; Middle meatus, larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of Highmore and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; Inferior meatus, the largest, presents in front the opening of the nasal duct.