23 INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 18 curved upon itself, and consists of a middle horizontal portion, the body, and of two lateral vertical portions, the rami. BODY— Presents: EXT. SURFACE — Convex from side to side and concave from above downwards. Presents in median line the Symphysis, a vertical ridge, at the lower part of which is the Mental process, from which the External oblique line passes backwards, first horizontally, giving attachment to depressores labii inferioris & angnli oris, and then obliquely & becoming continuous with anterior border of ramus. - Laterally above the oblique line is the Incisive fossa for levator menti; and more externally the Mentalforajnen for mental vessels & nerve. The Buccinator is attached above oblique line behind, and the platysma, below it, in front. INT. SURFACE — Concave from side to side and convex from above downwards. Presents the Symphysis forming a linear depression, close to which near its middle are the superior & inferior pairs of Genial tubercles giving attachment respectively to the genio-hyo-glossi & genio-hyoidei. Below these tubercles begins the Internal oblique line or mylo-hyoid ridge for mylo-hyoid muscle, faintly marked at first, but becoming more distinct as it passes upwards & backwards. - Above & below this line are seen near the sym. physis the Sublingual fossa for sublingual gland ; Rough depression for anterior belly of digastric; and more externally Submaxillary fossa for submaxillary gland. Above posterior extremity of mylo-hyoid ridge is attached the superior constrictor of the pharynx. SUP. BORDER — Thickest behind, where it is dejected inwards; presents sixteen alveolae in the adult, ten in the child. INF. BORDER — Thickest and slightly everted anteriorly. It A ]VI I — Are quadrilateral, and present: EXT. SURFACE — Marked by oblique ridges for masseter. INT. SURFACE — Presents near middle Aperture of inferior dental canal, of which the anterior margin forms a prominent Spine for internal lateral ligament of lower jaw ; - and from which passes downwards & forwards the Mylo-hyoid groove for mylo-hyoid vessels & nerve, behind which groove is a Rough surface for internal pterygoid muscle. UPPER BORDER — Presents the coronoid & condyloid processes separated by sigmoid notch. Coronoid process - Triangular, gives attachment by its surfaces & borders to tem- poral muscle, and presents at its lower & front part a groove which is continued downwards upon tho alveolar process, and which gives attachment inferiorly to the buccinator muscle. Condyloid process — Consists of Condyle - Oblong, convex from side to side and from before backwards & nearly transverse, its long axis when prolonged, meeting that of its fellow near anterior margin of foramen magnum. Neck - Flattened from before backwards, convex behind, excavated iu front for external pterygoid muscle, presenting externally a, tubercle fcr external lateral ligament of jav/» ANTERIOR BORDER — Continuous with external oblique line; thin above, thicker below where grooved for buccinator. LOWER & POSTERIOR BORDERS — Thick and form inferiorly the Angle of the jazu, which gives attachment to masseter & internal pterygoid muscles and to stylo-maxillaiw ligament.