114 SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. From front of aorta just below coeliac axis and behind splenio vein & pancreas. Forwards between pancreas & transverse portion of duodenum, and crosses front of the latter. Curves downwards to the right between layers of mesentery to right iliac fossa, and inoscu- lates with its own ileo-colic branch. BRANCHES: Inferior PailCreaticO-duodenal - Given off behind pancreas. Ascends along concave border of duodenum and joins with superior pancreatico- duodenal. Vasa intestini tenuis - Ten or twelve or more, and ai-ise from convex side of artery. Descend between layers of mesentery and divide each of them into two branches, by junction of each of which with the neighbouring branch, a first series of arches is formed, to which 2nd, 3rd, 4th, & even 5th rapidly dimi- nishing tiers succeed, the terminal branches encircling the intestine' and ramifying in its coats. IleO-Colic — The lowest branch from concavity. Between layers of mesentery towards ileo-colic valve, and divides into : Ascending Branch - To beginning of colon, and inosculates with colica dextra. Descending Branch - To end of ileum, and inosculates with termination of superior mesenteric, both branches forming arches as above. Colica dextra - From middle of concavity. Beneath peritoneum and in front of right kidney to middle of ascending colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media & the ileo-colic, also forming arches as above. Colica media - From upper part of concavity. Between layers of transverse meso-colon towards middle of transverse colon, divi- ding as preceding arteries, and similarly inosculating with colica dextra & colica sinistra. INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. From left side of aorta one or two inches above bifurcation. Descends along left side of aorta and front of psoas towards left iliac fossa, and then, uncle* the name of superior hsemorrhoidal, curves to the right in front of left common iliac & areter, and descends into the pelvis behind rectum, between layers of meso-rectum. BRANCHES : Colica sinistra - Beneath peritoneum and in front of left kidney to middle of descen- ding colon, and divides into Ascending & Descending Branches, - Which inosculate respectively with the colica media and the sigmoid artery, and supply intestine as above described. Sigmoid Artery - Across psoas to sigmoid flexure of colon, and divides into two branches, which inosculate with colica sinistra and sup. haemorrhoidal. Superior haemorrhoidal - The continuation of the inferior mesenteric. r* Follows course above described, and divides opposite middle of sacrum into two branches, which descend on each side of rectum to near its lower end, aoi join with middle hsemorrhoidal.