276 THE CEREBELLUM. I Oblong from side to side & flattened from above downwards. Presents two surfaces & a cir- cumference, and consists of two lateral hemispheres connected by a median lobe, the vermiform process, which latter is divided into two parts, the superior & the inferior. UPPER SURFACE — Flattened on either side, slightly elevated in the centre. Presents! Superior Vermiform Process - Presents from before backwards three slight elevations, the Lobulus Centralis, Monticulus Cerebelli, & Commissuea Simplex, which latter joins with the commissura brevis of the inferior vermiform process. Lateral Hemispheres - Divided by a deep fissure into Anterior on Square Lobe, the anterior, inner & broader portion, and the Posterior or Semilunar Lobe, the narrow, posterior or marginal portion. UNDER SURFACE — Rounded & elevated laterally and depressed in the centre. Presents: Inferior Vermiform Process-Lies in a deep depression, the valley ox vallecula com- prised between the two hemispheres, and presents from behind forwards the Commissura Brevis, Pyramid & Uvula, the former of which joins with the com- missura simplex of the superior vermiform process. The uvula is situated between the two tonsils, with which it is connected by a grey commissure the furrowed band. Its rounded apex, the nodule or laminated tubercle of Malacarne projects into the 4th ventricle, and is con- nected with the flocculi by a thin valvular fold of white substance, the posterior medullary velum or commissura ad flocculum, which fold is partly covered in & concealed by the tonsils. Lateral Hemispheres - Present five lobes: Flocculus, Sub-Peduncular Lobe, or Pneumogastric Lobule - Prominent tuft subdivided into several small laminae and situated below & behind the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, behind the roots of the pneumogastrio nerve. i Amygdala or Tonsil - Rather larger than foregoing and similarly subdivided; projects into the valley on either side of the uvula, to which it is connected by the furrowed band. Digastric Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the anterior part of the square lobe of the upper surface. Slender Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior part of the foregoing square lobe. Posterior Inferior Lobe - Corresponds in situation to the posterior or semilu- nar lobe. CIRCUMFERENCE — Deeply notched in front & behind by the Incisure Cerebelli Anterior & Posterior, - Of which the former embraces the tubercula quadrigemina & the superior peduncles, while the latter receives the falx cerebelli ; - also divided into upper & lower lips by the Great Horizontal Fissure - Which extends uninterruptedly from one middle • peduncle to the other. The other fissures are more or less parallel to the foregoing, and describe more or less concentric curves concave forwards & inwards; some fissures however are more or less oblique, and coalesce with the others so as not to extend over the whole breadth of the hemispheres. The largest fissures separate the lobes above described, the smaller ones demarcate the laminae or folia, which latter cover the surface of the cerebellum and project also into the bottom of the larger fissures.