71 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Anterior & smaller branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lower border of popliteus - muscle. Forwards between the two heads of tibialis posticus, and between tibia & fibula through opening in upper part of interosseous ligament. Downwards in front of interosseous ligament, shaft of tibia & ankle joint ( where becomes dorsalis pedis), passing between tibialis anticus & extensor longus digitorum, between tibialis anticus & extensor proprius pollicis, between tendon of extensor pro- prius pollicis, which crosses it, and innermost tendon of extensor longus digitorum; -lying in a line from inner side of head of fibula to midway between malleoli, and being deeply situated, above, between muscles on either side & beneath tendon cf extensor proprius pollicis, and superficially, below, beneath skin, antericr annular ligament & fascia. Has two venaa comites. Anterior tibial nerve is first external, then anterior, then again external to it. BRANCHES : Recurrent tibial —Arises in upper part of leg. Upwards through tibialis anticus to front of knee, and anastomoses with inf. articular branches of popliteal. Muscular — Numerous small branches to muscles on either side. Malleolar — Two; rather variable in size. Arise near ankle, and pass, the Internal, - To inner ankle beneath tendons of extensor proprius pollicis & tibia- lis anticus, External, - To outer ankle beneath extensor longus digitorum, and anastomose respectively with posterior tibial & internal plantar, and with tarsal & peroneal. DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY From bend of ankle to back of first interosseous space, resting upon bones of tarsus be- tween tendon of extensor proprius pollicis & innermost tendon of extensor brevis digitorum, which crosses it near termination, and having anterior tibial nerve on its outer side. BRANCHES: Tarsal — Arches outwards beneath extensor brevis digitorum, and anastomoses with metatarsal, external malleolar & external plantar. Metatarsal — More or less obliquely forwards in front of preceding. Gives off the Three outer Dorsal Interosseous Arteries - Along corresponding interosseous spaces. Are joined by anterior & posterior perforating branches, and supply dorsal digital branches to 3£ toes on outer side of foot. Dorsal Art. Of Great Toe — Is the first dorsal interosseous artery, and supplies dorsal digital branches to 1\ toes on inner side of foot. Communicating — Between the two heads of first dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates with external plantar, completing plantar arch. Gives off plantar digital branches to toes on inner side of foot.