COVEEINGS of the BRAIN & CORD—1st Tablet. The immediate coverings of both are three in number, and though presenting marked differ- ences, they bear the same names, dura mater, arachnoid <2r» pia mater* THE DURA MATER — Is a thick, dense, fibrons membrane, which is lined internally by the parietal layer of the arachnoid. Dura Mater of the Brain - Forms the internal periosteum of the skull; it is pro- longed round all the cranial nerves, blending with their sheaths and becoming at their point of exit continuous with the pericranium; it is also prolonged into the orbit. Its outer surface is rough & fibrillated; it is most adherent opposite the sutures at the base of the skull, and presents superiorly numerous glandulae Pacchionii. Its inner surface is smooth; it sends three processes inwards, the falx cerebri and the tentorium & falx cerebelli, in the attached margins of which processes are re- pectively contained the superior longitudinal, the lateral & superior petrosal, & the occipital sinuses, the falx cerebri having also the inferior longitudinal sinus in its free margin. Its arteries are derived from the middle & small meningeal, and from the meningeal branches of the anterior & posterior ethmoidal, internal carotid, ascending pharyn- geal, occipital & vertebral, which arteries however supply principally the bones of the skull. Its veins, with the exception of the two which accompany the middle meningeal, join with the diploic veins and open into the sinuses. - Its nerves are small branches from the fourth cranial nerve, the Casserian ganglion, the ophthal- mic branch of the fifth, the eighth, & the sympathetic. Dura Mater of the Cord - Differs from that of the brain in that it does not form the internal periosteum of the bodies & laminae of the vertebrae, which periosteum is a distinct fibrous membrane separated from the dura mater by loose areolar tissue & by a plexus of veins, in that it sends no prolongations inwards, contains no sinuses, and forms, especially in the cervical & lumbar regions, but a loose sheath round the cord and the roots of the spinal nerves. It is attached superiorly to the circumference of the foramen magnum, and anteriorly it is slightly adherent along its whole length to the posterior common ligament of the spine. Laterally when viewed from within, it is seen to give attachment to the processes of the ligamentum denticulatum, and to present a double series of foramina for the passage of the anterior & posterior roots of the nerves; when viewed from without it is seen to form a separate sheath to the roots of the nerves as far as their point of junction, and then to be continued upon the nerves, forming part of their neurilemma. Opposite the termination of the cord it blends with the pia mater to form the ligamen- tum centrale, which passes down to the back of the coccyx, and which, in its upper part,vcontains the filiform prolongation of the grey matter of the cord termed the filum terminale.