58 EADIO-ULNAE ARTICULATIONS. Three In number, superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of two ligamen ts, the interosseous & the oblique or round. SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION - Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosia rotatorius between circumference of head of radius, on the one hand, and lesser sig- moid cavity & inner surface of orbicular ligament of radius, on the other, the lesser sigmoid cavity corresponding to the broad inner part, and the orbicular ligament to the narrow outer part of the radial articular surface. - The only ligament is the Orbicular Ligament ~ Strong flat band, the four-fifths of a ring, which extends, round head & upper part of neck of radius, from Anterior extremity to Posterior extremity of lesser sigmoid cavity oftdna. The circumference of its lower border is narrower than that of its upper border, so that the head of the radius is maintained by it both against the ulna & against the capitellum of the humerus. Its inner surface is lined by the synovial membrane, and forms part of the articular surfaces of the joint. Its outer surface gives attachment to external lateral ligament of elbow-joint and to supinator brevis muscle. MIDDLE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. Interosseous Ligament - Strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliquely downwards & inwards between Contiguous borders of radius & ulna.-It is broadest towards middle, perforated interiorly for anterior interosseous vessels, and deficient above from about an inch below tubercle of radius, thus leaving for posterior interosseous vessels an opening bounded superiorly by the Oblique or Round Ligament - Narrow fasciculus oblique downwards & out- wards from Coronoidprocess to Radius half an inch below bicipital tuberosity. INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATOR — Lateral ginglymus or diarthrosia rotatorius between head of ulna & sigmoid cavity of radius, to which is added an arthrodia between under surface of head of ulna & the triangular fibio-cartilage of the articulation. - The ligaments are:' Ant. Radioulnar - Narrow band from Anterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to Front of head of ulna. Post. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from Posterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to Back of head of ulna. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage - The principal band of union, triangular, from Lower margin of sigmoid cavity of radius to Depression at root of styloid process of ulna. Its upper & under surfaces are lined respectively with the synovial mem- branes of the inferior radio-ulnar & radio-carpal articulations, and they come in contact, the one with the head of the ulna, the other with the cunei- form bone. Its margins are blended with the surrounding ligaments. It is thinnest in the centre, and sometimes perforated; the two synovial mem- branes above mentioned are then continuous with each other. Synovial Membrane - Is very loose, and is termed the membrana sacciformis. It extends between the triangular fibro-cartilage & the head of the ulna, and becomes continuous, when the former is perforated, with the synovial mem- brane of the wrist-joint.