91 MUSOULAE ATTAOHTS. of BS. of LOWEE LIMB—2nd. T. The muscules attached to the FEMUR — Are twenty-four in number, and are attached as follows: - Vastus Externus - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its outer sur- face; rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer Up of linea aspera and line from linea aspera to outer condyle. Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea a3pera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle ; inn^r surface. Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a Triceps, we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle; nearly whole of inner, anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur. Subcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface «. Psoas Magnus - Lesser trochanter. Iliacus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera in front of pectineus. Pectineus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into the bone be- hind trochanter minor. Adductor Longus - Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. Adductor Brevis- Upper part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser tro- chanter below & behind pectineus. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inner condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at npper & back part of inner condyle. Biceps (Short Head) - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor maq-nus & vastus externus, and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Gluteus Maximus - Rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera. Gluteus Medius - Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. Gluteus Minimus - Anterior border of great trochanter. Pyrifoi'mis - Posterior part of upper border of great trochanter. Obturator Internus - Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. Gemellus Superior. "> Indirectly by joining tendou of foregoing. Gemellus Inferior. ) ° ° Quadratus Femoris - Upper part of linea quadrati on back of great trochanter. Obturator Externus - Digital fossa. Gastrocnemius - Depressions at upper and back part of condyles, and lower part of th« two inferior divisions of linea aspera. Planlaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera. Popliteus - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Semimembranosus - Posterior & upper part of outer condyle.