30114007369088THE DISSECTOR'S GUIDE: BEING A MANUAL FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS.Digitized by the Internet Archive i in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2145890x_0002THE DISSECTOR'S GUIDE: BEING A MANUAL FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. BY D. J. CUNNINGHAM, M.D. (EDIN. AND DUBL.), F.R.C.S.I., F.R.S.E., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND CHIRURGERY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBLIN. HEAD AND NECK. {.WITH FIFTY-SEVEN ILLUSTRATIONS.) EDINBURGH : MACLACHLAN AND STEWART. LONDON : SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, AND CO. 1887.EDINBURGH : PRINTED BY LORIMER AND GILLIES, 31 ST. ANDREW SQUAKE.PREFACE. A VARIETY of circumstances have combined to delay the appearance of this volume. It was commenced four years ago, but it has repeatedly been laid aside as more important duties demanded the attention of the Author. To expedite its completion it has been deemed advisable to omit the Anatomy of the Brain and Organs of Sense. These will be dealt with in a separate Part. The plan upon which the work has been carried out is essentially the same as that which was adopted, for the volume upon the Abdomen, and the Author desires to express his thanks to Dr. St. John Brooks, Demonstrator of Anatomy in Trinity College, Dublin, and to Dr. Edgar Hogben, Medical Tutor, Queen's College, Birmingham, for the assistance they have given him in the correction of the proof-sheets. To Dr. Brooks he is also indebted for several suggestions of practical value.PREFACE. VI The majority of the illustrations have been borrowed from the works of Luschka, Schwalbe, Gegenbaur, Aeby, Turner, Henle, Treves, Cruveilhier. In every case, the source from which they have been derived has been acknowledged in the text. The Author is under great obligations to the publishers of these text-books for the ready courtesy with which they furnished the necessary electro-plates. 69 Harcourt Street, Dublin.CONTENTS. PAGE The Scalp, ...... i Removal of Brain, . . . . .13 Dorsal Aspect of the Trunk, . . -41 Side of the Neck, ..... 98 Middle Line of the Neck, . . . .140 Root of the Neck, . . . . -155 Dissection of the Face, . . . .191 Temporal and Pterygo-Maxillary Regions, . 241 Submaxillary Region, . . . .264 Deep Dissection of the Neck, . . . 278 Structures in Lateral Part of the Middle Cranial Fossa, . . . . .305 Orbit and Sphenoidal Fissure, . . -315 Prevertebral Region, .... 340 Vertebral and Cranio-Vertebral Joints, . 349 Mouth and Pharynx, . . . .362 Carotid Canal and Superior Maxillary Nerve, 386 Otic Ganglion, ..... 394 Nasal Fossae, ...... 395 Spheno-Palatine Ganglion, . . .414 Facial Nerve in the Aqueductus Fallopii, . 420 Dissection of the Larynx, . . . .425 Dissection of the Tongue, . * . .459ERRATA. Page 26, line 13, read « crista " instead of " crusta." 29, line 27, read "cavity" instead of "cavities" 32, include the "lateral sinus" in the list that is given of the venous .blood sinuses. 158. line 9, read " subclavian " instead of " vertebral:' 178, in Fig. 26, read « common carotid artery " instead of " inter- nal carotid artery" 205, line 12, read "internal tarsal ligament" instead of "pal- pebral ligament" ,, 284, line 2, read " of" instead of "or." 1HEAD AND NECK. THE dissector of the Head and Neck begins work on the same day that the subject is brought into the Dissecting-room. It is placed on a short table for this purpose, and of the two days during which it remains in the lithotomy position, the first should be devoted to the dissection of the scalp, and the second to the removal of the brain. SCALP. The structures entering into the constitution of the scalp differ according to the point at which they are examined. Above the level of the temporal ridge, on each side of the skull, we meet with five strata as we dissect from the surface to the bone—viz. (i.) the skin; (2.) the superficial fascia; (3.) the occipito-frontalis muscle, with its extensive epicranial aponeurosis; (4.) a layer of loose areolar tissue; and (5.) the periosteum, which is here termed the pericranium. Below the level of the temporal ridges additional structures are observed coating the cranium. As many as eight layers are described—viz. (1.) skin ; part in. b2 HEAD AND NECK. (2.) superficial fascia; (3.) the small extrinsic muscles of the ear; (4.) the thin lateral part of the epicranial aponeurosis ; (5.) a small quantity of loose areolar tissue under it; (6.) the temporal fascia; (7.) the temporal muscle ; (8.) the periosteum. The scalp is richly supplied with both nerves and blood-vessels. The following is a list of these (1.) Supra-trochlear. (2.) Supra-orbital. (3.) Temporal branch of the orbital nerve. (4.) Temporal branches of the facial nerve. Nerves ( ^ Auriculotemporal. (6.) Posterior auricular. (7.) Small occipital. ^ (8.) Great occipital. 1(1.) Supra-orbital. (2.) Frontal. (3.) Superficial temporal. (4.) Posterior auricular. (5.) Occipital. The dissector should now place a block under the head so as to raise it to a convenient height, and pro- ceed with the dissection. Incisions.—Two incisions are required—viz. (1.) from the root of the nose along the middle line of the cranium, to a point a little beyond the external occi- pital protuberance; (2.) from the tip of the mastoid process on one side, over the summit of the head to a corresponding point upon the opposite side. Four flaps of skin are thus marked out, and these should be carefully raised from the subjacent superficial fascia.3 SCALP. This, however, is no easy matter, owing to the very firm connection which exists between them. The roots of the hair which pierce the integument obliquely, and are imbedded in the superficial fascia, are neces- sarily divided. Superficial Fascia.—On the summit of the cranium this, although thin, is exceedingly dense and tough, owing to strong septa of fibrous tissue which bind it on the one hand to the integument, and on the other to the subjacent epicranial aponeurosis. The meshes formed by these fibrous partitions are filled with small lobules of fat, which give it a granular appearance. As this fascia is traced forwards towards the forehead, and downwards on each side towards the ears, it loses in great part its dense fibrous character, and becomes looser and less fatty. It is in this stratum that the cutaneous vessels and nerves ramify before they enter the skin. Occipito-frontalis Muscle and Epicranial Aponeurosis.—The superficial fascia may now be removed from the surface of the occipito-frontalis. In doing this, the dissector must proceed very cautiously, so as not to injure the cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels which ramify in its midst. The occipito-frontalis is a quadricipital muscle- possessing two occipital and two frontal bellies. The occipital bellies—-Fig. I (2)—are quite distinct from each other, being separated by a marked interval. Each arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and from a small portion of4 HEAD AND NECK. ' the adjoining part of the mastoid process of the temporal bone immediately above the insertion of the sterno-mastoid. From this the fibres ascend in the form of a thin fleshy layer of about two inches in length, and are inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis. The' frontal bellies are composed of exceedingly pale fibres, and are not perfectly distinct from each other ; for a short distance above the root of the nose their inner margins are blended along the middle line. Above this, however, they diverge slightly, and are separated by a narrow interval. They possess little or no direct attachment to bone. It is true that a few of the fibres of each belly may be seen to arise from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, but by far the greater number of the fibres mingle with those of the orbicularis palpebrarum and the corrugator supercilii, whilst a few of the innermost fibres proceed downwards upon the nasal bone to form the pyramid- alis nasi muscle. Ascending upon the forehead, the frontal bellies are inserted near the line of the coronal suture into the epicranial aponeurosis. The epicranial aponeurosis, which connects the occi- pital and frontal bellies of the occipo-frontalis muscle, constitutes a continuous layer over the summit and sides of the head. Posteriorly it can be traced backwards in the interval between the two occipital bellies of the muscle, when it will be observed to have an attach- ment to the external occipital protuberance and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Laterally, it presents no sharply defined margin, but, losing its aponeurotic character, is prolonged downwards as5 SCALP. a fine expansion over the temporal fascia. In this locality it gives origin to two of the small auricular muscles. Divide the epicranial aponeurosis by a mesial incision of about an inch and a-half in length, and then carry across the middle of this a second short transverse cut. On raising the corners thus marked out, the aponeurosis will be seen to rest upon a layer of loose flocculent areolar tissue, containing no fat— the fourth stratum of the scalp. Owing to the great laxity of this tissue, the occipito-frontalis muscle by its contractions can move the hairy scalp freely over the pericranium which invests the bone. Extrinsic Muscles of the Ear.—In man these muscles are very poorly developed, and the auricle possesses in consequence only a very limited power of independent movement. They are three in number, viz.:— (i.) Attollens aurem. (2.) Attrahens aurem. (3.) Retrahens aurem. The two first of these are so thin that it requires an experienced and careful dissector to isolate them from the superficial fascia. Attollens aurem—-Fig. 1 (1).—To expose this muscle the upper part of the auricle must be dragged down- wards, and then fixed in this position by means of a hook. The muscular fibres are thus rendered tense and stand out in relief. When cleaned it will be seen to be a fan-shaped muscle, placed immediately aboveg HEAD AND NECK. the ear Above it is broad, and arises from the epicranial aponeurosis where it covers the temporal fascia ; below, as the fibres approach the auricle, they converge and gain an insertion into the upper part of the cranial surface of the pinna. Awakens aurem.-TUs muscle, which is smaller than the preceding, is placed in front of the ear and therefore the auricle must be pulled backwards in order that its fibres may be rendered tense. It arises from the cranial aponeurosis and slightly from the back part of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone, and it is inserted into the anterior aspect of the helix The retrahens aurem-Fig. I (3)-is a strongly- marked short band of muscular fibres which springs from the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the posterior part of the concha. It is readily exposed by drawing the ear forwards. The attrahens is supplied by a twig from the temporal branches of the facial nerve; the retrains and attollens by the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. Nerves of the Scalp.-Two nerves are given to ^ frontal parietal portions of the scalp by *e frontal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerve. These are (a.) the supratrochlear, (*.) the supra-orbital. The supratrochlear nerve leaves the orbit close to its inner angle and then turns upwards under cover of the Xularis palpebrarum. Immediately beyond thisFig. Superficial nerves on the side of the neck and back of the scalp.- (1) Attollens aurein. (2) Posterior belly of occipitofron- tal Retrahens aureiu. [talis (4) Great occipital. (5) Great auricular. (61 Splenius. (7) Stenlo-mastoid. (8) Small occipital (present as two branches). (9) Great auricular. (10) External jugular vein. (11) Superficial cervical. (12) Spinal accessory. (13) Descending branches of cervical plexus. 14) Cervical branches to trapezius. 15) Trapezius. (16) Supra-clavicular branches. (Hirschfeld and Leveille). (17) Supra-acrouiial branches. (18) Auricular twigs of great auri- (19) Parotid gland. [cular. 20) Facial nerve. (21) Masseter. (22) Infra-maxillary nerve. (23) Anterior jugular vein. (24) Supra-sternal branches. (25) Platysma.8 HEAD AND NECK. muscle it becomes superficial by piercing the frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis, and, after a short course in the superficial fascia, it ends in the integu- ment of the forehead. The supra-orbital nerve is much larger than the preceding, and quits the orbit by turning upwards in the supra-orbital notch. The position of this notch in the superior margin of the orbit can generally be detected by the finger. The nerve now ascends under cover of the orbicularis palpebrarum and the frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis, and divides into an inner and an outer division. There is a slight difference in the manner in which these reach the surface. The inner division becomes superficial by piercing the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, whilst the outer division comes to the surface a little further on by piercing the epicranial aponeurosis. Both ramify m the superficial fascia over the parietal bone, and give numerous twigs to the skin. The outer division can be traced as far back as the lambdoidal suture. In the temporal region, nerves from three sources are to be found—(a.) from the facial nerve ; (b.) from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve; (c.) from the auriculotemporal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve The temporal branches of the facial nerve will be noticed running upwards over„ the zygoma. They furnish twigs of supply to the attrahens aurem, frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis, orbicularis palpebrarum, and corrugator supercilii.9 SCALP. The temporal branch of the orbital nerve is a minute twig, which is somewhat difficult to find. It pierces the temporal fascia about one inch above the anterior part of the zygoma, and the dissector is frequently led to it by a communicating twig from one of the facial branches. It is distributed to a limited area of skin in this region. The auriculo-temporal nerve will be found immedi- ately in front of the ear, in close contact with the superficial temporal artery. It soon divides into two branches, which diverge from each other as they ascend, and a careful dissector may be able to trace twigs from these as far as the summit of the head. Its branches terminate in the skin of the scalp. In the mastoid and occipital regions of the scalp, the dissector will meet with four nerves, each from a different source ; (a.) the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve—Fig. I (3) ; (J?.) the mastoid branch of the great auricular nerve ; (c.) the small occipital nerve frnrn. the, anterior primary (jivision of the second cervical nerve—Fig. 1 (8) ; and (d.) the great occipital nerve from the posterior primary division of the second cervical nerve—Fig. 1 (4). The posterior auricular is a small nerve which ascends upon the front of the mastoid process, imme- diately behind the ear ; and the guide to it is the posterior auricular artery, which lies in contact with it. After effecting a communication with the great auricular nerve, it divides into an auricular and an occipital division. The auricular division continues its upward course, and ends by supplying the retra-I0 HEAD AND NECK. hens aurem and attollens aurem muscles ; the occipital division inclines backwards along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and ends in the occipital belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. In searching for the posterior auricular nerve, the dissector will, in all probability, meet with the mastoid branch of the great auricular nerve, ascending upon the mastoid process on a more superficial plane. The small occipital nerve will be discovered midway between the ear and the external occipital protuber- ance. It supplies numerous branches to the integu- ment, and furnishes an auricular twig to the skin over the upper part of the cranial aspect of the ear; further, it communicates with the great auricular nerve on the one hand, and with the great occipital nerve on the other. The great occipital is a very large nerve, and there will be little difficulty experienced in finding it, as it lies close to the occipital artery, a short distance external to the occipital protuberance. Its branches spread out over the back of the head, and supply a wide area of integument. It sends an auricular twig to the skin over the cranial aspect of the ear, and communicates with the small occipital. Blood-Vessels of the Scalp.-Two small arteries —viz , the frontal and the supra-orbital, both branches of the' ophthalmia leave the orbit t0 SUpply thC f°re" head The former is associated with the supra- trochlear nerve, and the latter with the supra-orbitalSCALP. . 11 nerve. The veins corresponding to these arteries unite at the inner margin of the orbit to form the angular vein, which afterwards becomes the facial vein. The superficial temporal artery will be noticed ascending upon the temporal fascia, immediately in front of the ear. Two inches above the zygoma it divides into its two terminal branches — viz., the anterior and posterior superficial temporal arteries. The anterior superficial temporal artery takes a tortuous course upwards and forwards to the fore- head, and supplies numerous brandies to the integument, muscles, and pericranium. Further, it anastomoses with the frontal and supra - orbital arteries, and with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The posterior superficial temporal artery inclines upwards and backwards, arching over the cranium above the auricle. It gives off numerous twigs to the parts in this region, and communicates with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries. The posterior auricular artery ascends in the angle between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid pro- cess, and ends by dividing into two branches, of which one turns forwards to supply the retrahens aurem and the cranial surface of the pinna, whilst the other inclines backwards towards the occiput, where it communicates with the occipital artery. The posterior auricular vein 'is a comparatively large vessel. It12 HEAD AND NECK. joins the external jugular vein near the angle of the lower jaw. The occipital artery, which will be found a short distance to the outer side of the occipital protuber- ance, sends large tortuous branches over the back of the head. These anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and posterior temporal arteries. * The strong temporal fascia which covers the temporal muscle should now be examined, and the attachment of its upper border to the temporal ridge noted. Its further connections will be studied at a later period. Surgical Anatomy of the Scalp.-The close connec- tion between the three superficial layers of the scalp (viz., skin, superficial fascia, and epicranial apeneurosis), and the loose manner in which these are bound by areolar tissue to the pericranium, are of great interest from a surgical point of view. When the scalp is wrenched from the head by machinery, or by any other means,—as, for instance, the scalping knife of a Red Indian—the separation is effected on the plane of the areolar layer The blood-vessels, however, are mainly distributed in the superficial fascia, and therefore large flaps of detached scalp can be replaced upon the denuded periosteum, and yet retain their vitality. It is indeed a rare occurrence for a scalp flap to slough. We have noted how richly the scalp is supplied with blood- vessels. Incised wounds in this region therefore bleed very profusely ; but in addition to this, they bleed with more than usual persistence. This is readily accounted for by the dense character of the superficial fascia, and by the fact that the fibrous septa of this stratum adhere to the coats of the vessels, and prevent them from retracting freely when divided. As will very readily be understood, a collection of pus m the scalp will produce very different results according to the position13 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. it occupies. If it is formed under the epicranial aponeurosis it spreads in all directions ; indeed it is only limited in front by the superciliary ridges of the frontal bone, behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and upon either side by the temporal ridges : if formed in the superficial fascia it is confined to the point at which it originates. The anterior terminal branch of the superficial temporal artery is the vessel most commonly selected for the operation of arteriotomy. REMOVAL OP THE BRAIN. On the second day after the subject has been placed on the table, the two dissectors of the head and neck should, in conjunction with each other, proceed to remove the brain. The head being supported upon a block, an incision is made along the middle line of the head, through the epicranium, the subjacent areolar tissue, and the peri- cranium, from the root of the nose in front, to the external occipital protuberance behind. This must be done boldly, so as to divide everything right down to the bone. With a series of sharp strokes with the handle of the scalpel, the pericranium on each side can easily be turned outwards, so as to leave the bone perfectly bare. Observe, however, that although the pericranium is loosely attached over the surface of the various bones of the vault, that it is firmly attached along the lines of the cranial sutures by processes that dip in between the bones, so as to separate their edges. On reaching the temporal ridges push the knife through the attachment of the temporal fascia, so that the blade lies between the temporal muscleI4 HEAD AND NECK. and the bone. Then run the knife backwards and forwards, so as to thoroughly divide the attachment of the fascia to the ridge. When this is done on either side, the fascia and muscle can be easily raised together from the temporal fossa, and thrown down over the ear with the remains of the scalp. Fig. 2. Ormsby's cranium-holder. The dissectors should next furnish themselves with a saw, a chisel, and a mallet, and proceed to remove the calvarium. The line along which the saw is to be used may be marked out on the skull by encircling it with a piece of string, and then marking the cranium with a pencil along the line of the string. In front the cut should be made fully three quarters of an inch above the margins of the orbits, behind it should be carried round at the level of a point midway between the lambda* and the external occipital pro- tuberance. The saw should only be used to divide the outer table of the skull. When the diploe is * The terrrT" lambda" signifies the apex of the occipital bone, or the point at which the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures meet.15 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. reached, which will be observed by the sawdust becoming red and moist, the saw should be abandoned. The hammer and chisel are now brought into requisi- tion, and by these the inner table can readily be split along the line in which the outer table of the cranium is divided. By insinuating the hook at the end of the cross-bar of the chisel into the fissure in front, the skull-cap can be forcibly wrenched off. * Dura Mater—The brain is clothed by three distinct membranes, which are termed the meninges. These are from without inwards—(1.) the dura mater • (2.) the arachnoid mater; and (3.) the pia mater. mortem coronet.15 HEAD AND NECK. When the skull-cap is detached, the outer surface of the dura mater, as it covers the upper surface of the cerebral hemispheres, is brought under our notice. It is exceedingly rough, and dotted over with bleed- in* points. If a portion were placed in water, its roughness would become still more manifest, and be seen to be due to a multitude of fine fibrous and vascular processes, by which it is connected with the deep surface of the bones. These have necessarily been torn asunder in the removal of the skull-eap. The bleeding points are most numerous along the middle line, or in other words, along the line of the superior longitudinal sinus; and if the handle of the knife be run from before backwards, so as to make pressure along this line, a considerable quantity of blood will ooze out. This shows that a number of small veins from the cranial bones have been ruptured The degree of adhesion between the dura mater and the inner surface of the cranial bones varies in different subjects and in different localities. In all cases it is most adherent along the lines of the sutures ; and, as we shall afterwards see, it is very much more firmly attached to the base than the vault of the cranium In the child-indeed, so long as the bones of the cranium are growing-it is more adherent than in the adult; and it is also more firmly bound to the bone The dissector should now wipe the outer surface of the dura mater with a sponge. He will then recognise „ the substance of the membrane, and sending off its17 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. branches in a widely-arborescent manner. It stands out in bold relief from the membrane in which it ramifies; and if the skull-cap be examined, its inner surface will be observed to be deeply grooved by its ramifications. The meningeal arteries, as the name might lead one to imagine, are not intended for the supply of the membrane alone. They also must be looked upon as the nutrient vessels of the inner table of the cranial bones. Fig. 4. Diagrammatic section through an arachnoidal villus.—{Schwalbe). (pa) Villus. {d) Dura mater (deep layer.) (rtl) Superficial layer of dura mater. (ds) Deep layer of dura around villus. (v) Venous sinus into which the villus projects. (sd) Subdural space. (sdl) Subdural space around,villus, (a) Arachnoid mater. (sa) Sub-arachnoid space and trabecule. (p) Pia mater. (co) Convolution of cerebrum. The Pacchionian bodies ox arachnoidal villi, which are almost invariably present—more especially in old subjects—will attract notice at this stage. They are small granular bodies, ranged in clusters on either PART III. cj g HEAD AND NECK. side of the superior longitudinal sinus, into which they not unfrequeutly protrude. As a general rule they are most evident towards the hinder part of the parietal region. At first sight these bod.es appear to be protrusions from the dura mater, but th,s rs not the ease. They spring from the arachnod M and are enlargements of the normal vrlh of this membrane. Their relation to the dura mater ,s simp y this that when they enlarge they become embedded Tk or perhaps even pierce it. Nor does the bone escape Examine the deep surface of the calvarmm, and in all probability you will observe small pus hollowed out by absorption for their ^Ptmn. Having learned these preliminary details from an examination of the outer surface of the dura mater, as "es the upper surface of the cerebral hem, pheres, the student is in a position to understand fcat this membrane does not belong entirely to the brain , hat> fact, it has to perform a double function-^ (,) to act as an internal periosteum to the bones o ming the cranial cavity ; and (2.) to give support to the different parts of the brain. Consequently, it conits of two strata, which, in most localities, are firmly adherent.but which nevertheless can usually be Zl demonstrated in the dissecting room These :of0Ur hp termed the enao- £ Sy»<= rf v=»« u~a i i» ■—19 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. separate in order that the inner supporting layer may form strong folds or partitions, which run in between the various parts of the brain. By these latter the cranial cavity is divided into compartments com- municating freely with each other, and each holding a corresponding division of the brain (Fig. 5). But the dissector must now proceed with his dissec- tion to verify these points. Begin by tilting the head forward. Support it in this position, and divide the dura mater right round the head and along the cut surface of the cranium. Leave a small portion in the middle line in front, and in the middle line behind, undivided. The subdural space is now opened into. This is the term which is applied to the interval between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater— Fig. 3 (sd), p. 15. It contains a very small quantity of serous fluid which moistens the opposed surfaces of these membranes. On turning the divided dura mater upwards towards the middle line on each side, a striking contrast between its two surfaces will be observed. The superficial surface, as we have noted, is rough and flocculent; the deep surface is smooth, polished, and I glistening. Further, the cerebral veins returning the ! blood from the surface of the cerebral hemispheres hwill be seen shining through the arachnoid. They hare lodged in the fissures between the convolutions, and run upwards to the middle line. Reaching the superior longitudinal sinus they are suddenly directed forwards, and lie against the wall of the sinus for some distance before they open into it.20 HEAD AND NECK. Superior Longitudinal Sinus.-Open into this venous channel by running the knife through its upper wall from behind forwards. It begins in front at the crista galli of the ethmoid bone and extends backwards, grooving the cranial vault in the middle line to the internal occipital protuberance-Fig. 6 (5), P- V- Here it ends in a confluence of venous sinuses termed the torcular Herofhili. Its lumen, which is triangular in form, is very small in front, but expands greatly as it is followed backwards. The mouths of the cerebral veins are observed opening into it, and, as we have , already noticed, these veins pour their blood into it ,n a direction contrary to that in which the blood flows within the channel. The veins are directed from behind forwards, whilst the blood in the sinus flows from before backwards. The channel is crossed at its inferior angle by a great number of minute bands. These receive the name of chorda Wilhsu. Falx Cerebri.-This is a sickle-shaped reduplica- tion of the supporting layer of the dura mater, which descends in the mesial plane between the two cerebral hemispheres. In order to expose it, the cerebral veins as they open into the longitudinal sinus must be divided and the hemisphere gently pulled outwards In front it is narrow and attached to the crista gafl. of the ethmoid bone. As it is followed backwards it increases in breadth, and behind it is attached in the middle line to the upper surface of the tentorium cere- belli its two lamelte separating along the line oi junction so as to form with the tentorium a sinusREMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 21 termed the straight sinus—Fig. 6 (6), p. 27. Along its superior convex border its two layers separate so as to form with the endocranial layer of the dura mater, which they join, the superior longitudinal sinus— Fig. 6 (5), p. 27. Its inferior concave margin is free and overhangs the corpus callosum, with which, how- ever, it is not in contact, except, perhaps, very Fig. 5. The dura mater.—(Luschka). (2) The oval aperture between anterior border of tentorium and dorsum selloe. (3) Falx cerebri. (4) Tentorium. (5) Anterior concave margin of tentorium. (6) Veins of Galen. slightly behind. Running backwards in this margin is the inferior longitudinal sinus. Removal of the Brain.—The dissectors should now proceed to remove the brain. Having divided the attachment of the falx cerebri to the crista galli, pull it backwards, together with the dura mater which covers the upper surface of the hemisphere.22 HEAD AND NECK. Next, removing the block upon which the head rests, and supporting the occiput and posterior lobes of the brain with the left hand, let the head drop we backwards. In all probability the frontal lobes will fall away by their own weight from the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, and perhaps carry with them the olfactory bulbs. Should they remain in position, however, gently raise them with the fingers, and separate at the same time with the handle of the knife the olfactory bulbs from the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. In raising the olfactory bulbs, the minute olfactory nerves which spring from them and perforate the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone are torn across. The large round and white optic nerves (second pair of cranial nerves) now come mto view as they leave the cranium through the optic foramina. When these are divided the internal carotid arteries will be exposed, and between them in the mes.al plane the infundibulum, a hollow conical process which connects the pituitary body with the tuber cinereum-a lamina of grey matter on the base of he brain It will be noticed that the infundibulum lies slightly behind the internal carotid arteries.* Sever in turn each of these structures. We then come upon the occulo-motor nerves (third pair of cranial nerves), which must be dealt with in like manner. Observe first, however, that they lie behind, and external to the carotid trunks. The dissector should now see close to the brain on the other side.REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 23 upon either side the anterior extremity of the inner free margin of the tentorium cerebelli as it passes forward to be attached to the anterior clinoid process. Pressing this outwards with the point of the knife, the » minute trochlear nerve (fourth cranial nerve) will be brought into view. It lies under shelter of the free border of the tentorium, and should be divided at this stage. The head must in the next place be turned forcibly round, so that the face is directed over the left shoulder. On raising the posterior part of the right hemisphere with the fingers, it will be observed to rest upon the tentorium cerebelli—a broad horizontal process of dura mater, which inter- venes between it and the cerebellum. Divide the tentorium along its attached border, and take care in doing this not to injure the subjacent cerebellum. -When the division is effected, push the tentorium backwards out of the way with the point of the knife. Now turn the head so as to bring its left side uppermost, and treat the tentorium on this side in the same manner. The two parts of the fifth nerve per- forating the dura mater near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the sixth nerve piercing the dura mater behind the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid bone, the three parts of the seventh nerve disappearing into the internal auditory meatus, the eighth nerve leaving the skull through the jugular foramen, and the two slips of the ninth nerve piercing the dura mater over the anterior condyloid foramen, will each in turn come into view upon either side, and each must be divided in succession. In the case of the24 HEAD AND NECK. eighth nerve, however, which is composed of three parts (viz., the glasso-pharyngeal, pneumogastnc, and spinal accessory), the dissector should endeavour to leave the spinal accessory portion of the right side intact within the cranium, by dividing its roots of origin from the medulla, whilst on the other side he removes it with the brain. It will be readily recognised from its ascending from the spinal canal into the cranial cavity, through the foramen magnum. It is only necessary now for the dissector to thrust the knife into the spinal canal, and divide the vertebral arteries as they turn forwards upon the upper part of the spinal cord, and then sever at a lower level the spinal cord, the spinal accessory nerve of the left side, and the roots of the first pair of spinal nerves. By letting the head fall well backwards, and gently dislodging the medulla and cerebellum, the whole brain can be removed. The veins of Galen, as they pass from the interior of the brain to enter the straight sinus, are ruptured by this proceeding. In order that the brain may be studied to best advantage, it is necessary that it should be subjected to some hardenmg e-agenl'. Methylated spirit, or a mixture of this wtfh Muller and the meninges u the c£re. free admission to the fluid. It is *eii aisoREMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. bellum slightly from the cerebrum by means of a small pad of wadding, and it is advantageous to tear across the arachnoid at the back of the corpus callosum. If spirit be employed, it should, in the first instance, be diluted by fully a third part of water. In three days the brain should be taken out of the vessel, and the membranes stripped from its surface. Before doing this, however, the dissector must study the manner in which the arachnoid and pia mater is disposed, and the distribution of the blood vessels. A descrip- tion of these will be found in the chapter referring to the dissection of the brain. In removing the membranes from the base of the brain, the very greatest care must be taken not to injure the cranial nerves as they emerge. The brain should now be immersed in pure spirit to complete the hardening. Mailer's fluid has the following composition, and it can readily be prepared by the student:— Bichromate of potash, ... 25 grms. Sulphate of soda, .... 10 grms. Water, . . . . . . IOoo c.c. To hasten the solution of the potassic bichromate, the water may be slightly heated, but on no account can the fluid be applied to the brain until it is quite cold. Methylated spirit should be added in the proportion of one of spirit to three of Miiller's fluid. Heat is generated by the mixture, and therefore the liquid must be allowed to cool before it is poured over the brain. Further, to prevent the separation of the chromic salts, all light must be excluded. A relatively large quantity of the fluid must be used, and it must be changed at least three times —viz., at the end of the first, fourth, and eighth days. For ordinary dissection, spirit alone is quite sufficient to give the brain a proper consistence ; but for a study of the sectional anatomy of the organ, it is best to use the Miiller's fluid and spirit solution. It is true that it imparts to the brain a dark colour, but this can in a great measure be removed by steep- ing the organ, after its removal from the hardening fluid, m a large quantity of water (and frequently changing the water) for a period of twenty-four hours. Six weeks are usually required to harden a brain in this solution ; and it is not26 HEAD AND NECK. necessary to remove the membranes until the dissector is pre- pared to study the organ, so great is the permeating power of this fluid. . A description of how the brain is to be dissected, and also a short account of the more important points to be noted m connection with it, are given further on. It is best to undertake this after the dissection of the head and neck is completed. Dura Mater at the Base of the Cranium.-The dissector has observed that the dura mater can, as a rule be readily separated from the under surface of the cranial vault. He would find it impossible to raise it in like manner from the base of the cranium. It is closely adherent to the crusta galh, to the posterior margins of the lesser wings of the sphenoid, to the posterior clinoid processes, to the petrous portions of the temporal bones, to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and around the mar-in of the foramen magnum. Another cause of its close adhesion in this locality is, that it gives sheaths to the cranial nerves, and passes out of the cranium through the basal foramina to become con- tinuous with the periosteum on the external surface of the skull. So close, indeed, is the union between the dura mater and the base of the cranium, that it would require maceration to effect a complete separa- tion But the dura mater gives off, as we have already seen, at certain points processes which act as partial partitions within the cranial cavity. These next claim our attention ; they are four in number, viz.:— (i.) The falx cerebri (which has already been studied). (2.) The tentorium cerebelh.27 TENTORIUM CEREBELLI. (3.) The falx cerebelli. (4.) The diaphragma sellae. Tentorium Cerebelli—Fig. 6 (4), and Fig. 5 (4), p. 21.—This is a large crescentic fold of dura mater which constitutes a membranous roof for the posterior fossa of the cranium, and at the same time forms a partition between the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and the cerebellum. It is not horizontal. It is accurately applied to the upper surface of the cerebellum. Its highest point, there- Fig. 6. Diagrammatic coronal section through the posterior part of the cranium with the dura mater in position.—(Luschka). (1) Compartment for cerebellum, &c. (2) Compartments for occipital lobes of the cerebrum. (3) Falx cerebri. (4) Tentorium. (5) Superior longitudinal sinus. (6) Straight sinus. (7) Lateral sinuses. fore, is in front, in the mesial plane, and from this it gradually slopes downwards to its attached border. A very imperfect idea of its natural appearance, however, can be obtained in the present instance, seeing that its connections have been severed in the removal of the brain. Before it is disturbed it is perfectly tense, and this tension is due to its connec-2g HEAD AND NECK. tion with the falx cerebri. These two dura matral processes are mutually dependent on each other in this respect-divide either and both become relaxed. The posterior border of the tentorium is convex. Behind it is attached to the horizontal ridges which mark the deep surface of the occipital bone and beyond this to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone; laterally it is firmly fixed to the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In the former situation it encloses between its two Fig. 7. /• f V tentorium.-(HiRscHFELD and Leveille). ^ 8 The aperture In front of the tentorium. (9) Anterior free edge of tentorium. (10) Sixth cranial nerve. (11) Posterior clinoid process. (12) Anterior clinoid process. (1) Optic foramen. (2) Olivary process of sphenoid. (3) Optic nerve. (4) Third cranial nerve. (5) Fourth cranial nerve. (6) Fifth cranial nerve. (6) Fifth craniai ueive. layers the lateral blood sinus,-Fig. 6 (7)-and in the ato the superior petrosal blood sinus. The anUrwr fair is sharp, free, and concave, and forms, wift the dolm sell* of the sphenoid, an oval opening through29 CRANIAL NERVES. which the crura cerebri and superior cerebellar peduncles ascend. Beyond the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone the two margins of the tentorium cross each other like the limbs of the letter X 5 the ^ree margin is carried forward to be attached to the anterior clinoid process, whilst the attached border is continued inwards to be fixed to the posterior clinoid process (Fig. 7). Falx Oerebelli.—This is a small falciform fold of dura mater placed under the tentorium, which extends forwards in the mesial plane from the internal occipital crest. It occupies the notch which separates the two lateral lobes of the cerebellum posteriorly. Above it is attached to the posterior part of the under surface of the tentorium. Its anterior border is free ; whilst inferiorly it bifurcates into two small diverging ridges, which gradually fade away as they are traced forwards on either side of the foramen magnum. The Diaphragma Sellse is a small circular fold of the inner layer of the dura mater which forms a roof for the sella turcica. A very small opening is left in its centre for the transmission of the infundi- bulum. An almost complete case is thus formed for the pituitary body. Cranial Nerves.—The dissector should now turn his attention to the cranial nerves, and study the manner in which they leave the cranial cavities. Each nerve carries out with it a covering derived from each of the three membranes of the brain. .In the case of the optic nerve these remain distinct;3Q HEAD AND NECK. but in all the others the sheath derived from the arachnoid very soon disappears Begin by examining the eribnform plate of the ethmoid. From this the olfaetory bulb was d>splaced , tw mmute in the removal of the Drain, n olfactory nerves proceed from the under surface of the bulb and descend into the nose through the hole » 2 cribriform plate. These have been ruptured dose to their origin, but in all probability traces of them will be observed. seen The second or nerve—Fig. 7 (3) wu entering the orbit through the optic foramen It is "ompanied by the ophthalmic in relation to its outer and lower aspect. The student luM note the strong- loose sheath of dura mater which envelopes the nerve. The or occulo-motor nerve-Fig- 7 (4)->s > ™ cord like nerve, which pierces the dura mater m front ^ i posted clinoid process, within a triangula,^area margins of the tentorium, as they pass to u 111 fe _ Tup nerve enters the wall tn the clinoid processes. 1 he nerve emc of the cavernous sinus, where it will he afterwards "The minute thread-like fourth or trochlear nerve- ^(O-also enters the wall of the cavernous sinus Tg in which it perforates the dura mater a short distance behind, and to the outer side of the third nete but within the same triangular ^area. Its "a^me of exit lies under shelter of the free margm of the tentorium.CRANIAL NERVES. 31 The fifth or trifacial nerve—Fig. 7 (6)—is com- posed of two parts—viz., a large, soft, sensory portion, consisting of loosely connected funiculi, and a small, firmer motor portion, which lies upon the inner surface of the sensory part. They can generally be easily distinguished, and both pierce the dura mater at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and under the anterior extremity of the tentorium. The sixth or abducent nerve—Fig. 7 (10)—is a small, round nerve, which disappears through the dura mater at the lower and outer part of the dorsum sellae, and enters the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. The seventh nerve is composed of three parts—viz., the portio mollis, or auditory, the portio dura, ox facial, and the small pars intermedia. They all enter the internal auditory meatus, where the pars intermedia joins the facial nerve. The eighth nerve also consists of three divisions— viz., the glossopharyngeal, the pneumogastric or vagus, and the spinal accessory. They pierce, the dura mater over the internal jugular foramen in the order in which they have been named, from before backwards. The glossopharyngeal has a separate aperture of exit in the dura mater, and therefore receives a separate sheath of dura mater, whilst the vagus and spinal accessory have a common aperture, and a common sheath of both arachnoid and dura mater. They all leave the skull through the middle compartment of the jugular fossa. The spinal accessory has already been noticed ascending from the spinal canal.^2 HEAD AND NECK. The ninth or hypoglossal nerve pierces the dura mater opposite the arrferio^d^ foramen at two mater opp distinct shp5 separate points, in tne iorui These unite in the foramen. Venous Blood Sinuses.-The blood sinuses which „ the dura mater should next be examined. Each should be opened in turn by running the knife Through the dura mater which forms its walls. The following is a list of these sinuses :- (I ) Superior longitudinal. (6.) Sphenoparietal. U Inferior longitudinal. (7.) Circular. (8.) Superior petrosal. (3.) Straight V / inferfor trosaL (4 ) 0cclP'tal- ( o.) Basilar. (5.) Cavernous. I K J ^jj^L As already pointed out, the" cranial blood sinuses r ! bv a separation of the two layers of the T er The channels thus constituted are lined ^ 1^ membrane, which is continuous with the internal coat of the veins. Torcular Herophili.-The superior longitudinal Jn^been ^^^£S where it terminate, Thdssec^ ^ descends ^ to one or other bone, it as a ru e tQ ^ ^ dilated, an expansion of the lateral sinus of that sice.BLOOD-SINUSES. 33 superior longitudinal sinus is termed the torcular Herophili, and it communicates by means of a trans- verse channel, which crosses the front of the internal occipital protuberance, with the commencement of the lateral sinus of the opposite side. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus—Fig. 8 (Ssi).—Xhis small sinus runs backwards in the lower free border of the falx cerebri. It begins at a variable point behind the crista galli, and ends posteriorly, and in the mesial plane, at the anterior free edge of the tentorium, where it pours its blood into the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus extends backwards and downwards in the mesial plane, from the anterior free edge of the tentorium to the internal occipital protub- erance. Its course corresponds with the attachment of the posterior broad end of the falx cerebri to the upper surface of the tentorium. Indeed, it is formed by the opening out of the two layers of the falx on the upper surface of the tentorium. At its anterior extremity it receives the blood from the inferior longitudinal sinus and the veins of Galen. The latter return the blood from the interior of the brain, and their ruptured ends may be noticed as they enter the straight sinus. At the internal occipital protuberance, the straight sinus bends suddenly outwards, in a direction opposite to that taken by the superior longitudinal sinus, and it forms the lateral sinus of that side. In its course backwards, a few small cerebellar veins pour their blood into the straight sinus. PART III D,4 HEAD AND NECK. Occipital Sinus-Fig. 8 (S.).-This is a minute blood channel, which is placed between the layers of the falx cerebelli. Above (as a rule) it opens into the torcular Herophili, whilst below, at the foramen mag- num, it bifurcates, and the two divisions thus formed not unfrequently run forwards to join the lower end of the lateral sinus upon either side. Sometimes the occipital sinus is double throughout its whole course, and not merely at its lower extremity. The Lateral Sinuses-Fig. 8 (Sfr^-are two in number_one on each side. They are very variable in their mode of origin, but as we have noted, the right lateral sinus is commonly formed by the superior longitudinal sinus, whilst the left is formed by the straight sinus. They commence one upon either side of the internal occipital protuberance, and communi- cate with each other by a transverse channel of variable width, which passes in front of this bony P—1* The sinus which represents the continuation of the superior longitudinal sinus is generally much larger than the other. From the occipital protuberance, each lateral sinus passes at first horizontally outwards and grooves the occipital bone and the inferior angle of the parietal bone along the attached border of the tentorium. Reaching the temporal bone, it is joined by the superior petrosal sinus, and then suddenly curves downwards and inwards, in the deep furrow upon the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the jugular process of the occipital bone. Lastly, it turns forwards and disappears into the posterior compart-- 5 The blood-sinuses of the dura mater.—(Henle) m Superior longitudinal sinus. (So) 0ccipital ainus (.Ssj) Inferior longitudinal sinus. (Sla) Anterior part of circular sinus. (38p) Spheno-parietal sinus (Sip) Posterior part of circular sinus. (Sc) Cavernous sinus. Wps) Superior petrosal sinus. (Spi) Inferior petrosal sinus. (Str'n . . ■ i (Str) J"Lateral sinus (Pb) Basilar sinus. (1) Falx cerebri. (2) Optic nerve. (3) Internal carotid artery. (4) Third cranial nerve. (5) Dorsum sellae. (6) Eighth cranial nerve.,g HEAD AND NECK. ment of the jugular foramen, where it terminates in the bulb of the internal jugular vein. Venous tributaries which eome from the cerebellum back part of the cerebrum, and from the dip oe of the cranial bones, may be noticed opening into the lateral sinus. . . Two large and important emissary veins connect it with the veins of the scalp, and allow its blood, when it is overcharged, to drain partly away in this d.rectiom These are the mastoidal vein, joining it through the mastoid foramen-Fig. 24 00, P- ^-and^posterior condyloid vein, which joins it through the postenor condyloid foramen. Cavernous Sinus-Fig. 8 (Se).-lt is not advis- able that the dissector should open the cavernous It this stage on account of the various nerves S j£ Sards in its walls to the orbit, and SS are best studied with the parts in ««J He should simply note, therefore, at present, that this luflies upon the side of the body of the sphendd bone. The Circular Sinus-Fig. 8 (Sid)-however, which surrounds the pituitary body, may be examined It consists of two transverse channe s which connect the cavernous sinuses, and lie one m front, and the other behind the pituitary body. The Petrosal Sinuses-Fig. 8 &s and Srf- vT drain the blood from the postenor end of the tnous sinus on each side, may likewise be stud.ed. "are two in number on each side_vi„ superiorARTERIES ENTERING THE CRANIAL CAVITY. 37 and inferior. The superior petrosal sinus runs along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and joins the lateral sinus. The inferior petrosal sinus is the larger of the two, but has a shorter course. It passes backwards and outwards in the groove between the basilar process of the occipital bone and the inferior margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It leaves the cranial cavity by passing through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends by joining the commencement of the internal jugular vein. The Basilar Sinus—Fig. 8 (P6)—is not a single channel, but a plexus of minute sinuses which per- meate the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone. It connects the two inferior petrosal sinuses, and posteriorly communicates with the anterior intraspinal veins. The Spheno-Parietal Sinus—Fig. 8 (Ssp)~is a minute blood channel which runs inwards under shelter of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. Externally it commences in one of the small meningeal veins, whilst internally it pours its blood into the fore part of the cavernous sinus. Owing to its position, this sinus is somewhat difficult to demonstrate. Arteries entering the Cranial Cavity.—The student has now examined the various channels by means of which the venous blood is drained out of the cranial cavity. He should next examine the arteries which introduce the blood into this cavity. These are—g. HEAD AND NECK. (i.) The vertebral arteries. (2.) The internal carotid arteries. (3.) The meningeal arteries. Th6 Vertebral and Internal Carotid Arteries carry blood for the supply of the encephalon and the par^ within the orbit. At the present stage, onty the points at which they enter can be stud,«L The \ntLl carotid artery^ be observed ^ercmg h dura mater immediately behind, ££f^*£ of the anterior clinoid process. At this pom it magnum. It also u*=> entrance. ^ • tLpcp are the nutrient Mpninffeal Arteries.—These are ui the dura mater, and the inner table of> • 1 k^pq Thev are derived tiom a g size is the mmie "rtV+^J^S small ^anret :;3: tTwelMn eld subject, will twlgs, and except, *„fcWr 4- easilv made out. lhey are. v ' . • -.j onH vertebral arteries, geal, occipital and vertew The meningeal artery emcMENINGEAL ARTERIES. 39 through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid, and divides into two large terminal branches. Of these, the anterior branch ascends upon the great wing of the sphenoid, and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, grooving both deeply, whilst the posterior branch turns backwards upon the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The wide distribution of these vessels in the dura mater has already been noticed. The anterior meningeal arteries proceed from the anterior ethmoidal artery as it lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, along with the nasal nerve. They supply a limited area of dura mater in the anterior fossa of the cranium. The small meningeal artery is somewhat inconstant, and not unfrequently springs from the middle menin- geal. It enters the cranium through the foramen ovale, but it should not be looked for at the present stage, as it is best examined along with the gasserian ganglion and the three divisions of the fifth nerve. The meningeal arteries from the ascending pharyn- geal artery are the terminal twigs of this vessel, and enter the cranium through the foramen lacerum medium, through the jugular foramen, and through the anterior condyloid foramen. The branch which passes through the jugular foramen is the largest. " The meningeal arteries of the occipital and vertebral are very small. The former enter through the jugular foramen, whilst the latter gains admittance to the cranium through the foramen magnum.HEAD AND NECK. 40 Pituitary Body-Fig. 9--The over-hanging margin of the diaphragma sellae should be freely cut in two or three places, and the pituitary body carefully dislodged from the sella turcica of the sphenoid bone. If this be done successfully the body will be seen to be an oval structure, slightly flattened from above down- wards, and with its long axis directed transversely. Further, it may be noticed to consist of a large anterior lobe, and a smaller posterior lobe. The former of these is hollowed out behind so as to form a concavity for the lodgment of the latter. Attention has already been directed to the connection of the a 3 Fig. 9. (x) Pituitary body ; (2) in mesial section ; (3) in horizontal section.—(Schwalbe). (0) Anterior lobe. (6) Posterior lobe. (cm) Corpus mammillare. (1) Tuber cinereum. (eft) Optic commissure in section. (ro) Lamina cinerea. (o) Optic nerve. (a') Infundibulum with projection from anterior lobe upwards in frout of it. pituitary body with the tuber cinereum of the brain, by means of the infundibulum. The dissectors of the head and neck _ must now nreoare for the changing of the position of the Sect. Some tow, or a sponge, soaked in a.mixture of methylated spirit and carbolic acid, should beDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 41 introduced into the cranial cavity. The skull-cap should then be replaced and retained in position by bringing the scalp flaps over it, and stitching them accurately together. It is a very common practice with students, when the scalp has been dissected and the brain removed, to throw the skull-cap aside. This proceeding cannot be too strongly condemned, because the contour of the head is then lost, and in the subsequent dissection false conceptions are apt to be formed. DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. On the third day after the subject has been placed in the dissecting-room its position is changed. It is now laid on its face, with its chest and pelvis supported by blocks. The head should be allowed to fall well over the end of the table (PI. III). During the four days that the body is allowed to lie in this position, the dissectors of the head and neck have to dissect the dorsal aspect of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral regions, and in addition remove the spinal cord. The dissectors of the upper limbs take part in this dissection. It is their duty to dissect the superficial and deep fasciae in the thoracic, and lumbar regions, and also those structures which connect the limb to the trunk posteriorly. To them therefore belong the trapezius muscle below the seventh cervical spine, the latissimus dorsi and the rhomboid muscles, together with their vessels and nerves of supply. The levator angulae scapulae, and4? HEAD AND NECK. the omo-hyoid are to be regarded as common property. The dissectors of the upper limbs are allowed two days to complete this work. The following are the structures which the dissectors of the head and neck are expected to examine in this dissection :— (i.) Superficial fascia on the back of the neck. (2.) Superficial nerves on the back of the neck. (3.) Cervical portion of the trapezius. (4.) Spinal accessory nerve. (5.) Branches from cervical plexus to the trapezius. (6.) The termination of the transversalis colli artery. (7.) The levator anguli scapulae. (8.) The origin of the omo-hyoid. (9.) The serrati muscles. (10.) The lumbar and vertebral aponeuroses. (11.) The splenius capitis et colli. (12.) The.erector spin;© and its various sub-divisions. (13.) The complexus. (14.) The ligamentum nuchae. . (15.) The posterior primary divisions of all the spinal nerves. (16.) The blood-vessels of the back. (17.) The sub-occipital triangle, and the muscles bound- ing it. (18.) The Semi-spinalis. (19 ) The multifidus spinae. (20.) The rotatores spin* and the levatores costarum. (21 ) The inter-spinales and inter-transversales. (22.) The spinal cord and its investing membranes. Dunn- the first two days allowed for this dissection, the dissectors have merely to examine the superficial parts on the back of the neck, and take part alongDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 43 with the dissector of the upper limb in the dissection of those structures which are common to both. The first day should be devoted to the reflection of the skin and the dissection of the superficial nerves, and that portion of the posterior triangle of the neck which can be examined in the present position of the subject. On the second day the trapezius may be reflected, and the following structures examined—viz., the levator anguli scapulae and its nerves, the posterior scapular artery, the superficial cervical artery, the supra-scapular artery and nerve, the transversalis colli artery, and the origin of the omo-hyoid. External Anatomy.—First make out the position of the external occipital protuberance, and having traced the superior curved line of the occipital bone as it passes outwards towards the mastoid process, press deeply into the neck immediately below the occiput, and in the middle line; here the bifid extremity of the massive spinous process of the axis vertebra can be felt. Carrying the finger downwards, the posterior edge of the ligamentum nuchae can be distinguished, but the short spines of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae are quite beyond reach. The spines of the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrae, however, are usually very prominent. Incisions (PI. III).—Three incisions are required— (i.) Along the middle line, from the external occipital protuberance to the prominent spine of the seventh cervical vertebra. (2.) From the lower end of this mesial incision transversely outwards to the inner44 HEAD AND NECK. border of the acromion process of the scapula. (3.) From the upper end of the primary incision transversely outwards over the occiput to the ear. The quadrilateral flap of skin thus marked out must be raised from the subjacent superficial fascia. On reaching the side of the neck, the head must be held well over to the opposite side. Here, unless the dissector keep close to the skin, there is a danger of slipping in under the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Superficial Nerves—The nerves to be looked for in the superficial fascia, which is now exposed, are derived partly from the posterior primary divisions, and partly from the anterior primary divisions of the cervical nerves. They are :— Great occipital. (2.) Terminal twigs of the internal branches of the third, fourth, and fifth nerves. From anterior f (1.) Small occipital, primary divisions. I (2.) Great auricular. The great occipital-Tig. 10 (8)-should be first secured It is the internal branch of the posterior division of the second cervical nerve, and its branches of distribution have already been noticed, spreading out on the back of the scalp (p. 10). ' The main trunk may nowbe found piercing the trapezius about an inch below the occipital protuberance, and about half-an-mch external to the mesial plane. The fascia at this spotDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 45 is usually very dense, and the readiest method to adopt in exposing the nerve is to carefully shave it off in slices until the plane of the muscle is reached. The great occipital nerve, as it becomes superficial, joins the occipital artery, and both are directed upwards to supply the scalp. The terminal twigs of the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves enter the superficial fascia close to the mesial m 11 Fig. io. Superficial dissection of the posterior aspect of the neck and head.-(LuscHKA). (1) Trapezius (2) Sterno-mastoid. (3) Splenius capitis, (4) Complexus. (5) Occipital artery. (6) Posterior auricular vein. (7) Occipital vein. (8) Great occipital nerve. (9) Small occipital nerve. plane, and then turn transversely outwards to supply the skin of the neck. The third cervical branch sends in addition a large twig upwards to the integument over the occiput. '.g HEAD AND NECK. This nerve runs along the inner side of the great occipital, and, as a rule, communicates with it From its distribution, it is frequently termed the tlurd occipital nerve. Small Occipital Nerve-Fig. 10 (9).-This nerve will be found by dividing the fascia along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It springs from the anterior primary division of the second cervical nerve, and runs upwards to assist in the supply of the integument over the occiput. Its terminal twigs have already been dissected in the superficial fasaa of the scalp (P. 10). Occasionally the small occipital >s represented by two separate nerves. Great Auricular or Auriculo-Parotidean Nerve- Fig I (9)-Like the preceding, the great auricular ne^ve is a branch of the cervical plexus, and takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves. I J readily be exposed by drawing the head over to the opposite side and then dividing theTaa over the outer surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle very obliquely, beginning the incision at the posterior m fgin of the muscle about the middle of the neck "/carrying it upwards and forwards — th lobule of the ear. This incision corresponds with the course taken by the nerve. Near the lobule of the ear the great auricular nerve will be found to end by hiding into three sets of branches-viz., facial, auricular, and mastoid. # Zfaaal tranches will be traced afterwards in the dissection of the face. The others may be followed,DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 47 however, at the present stage. The auricular branches supply the integument upon the cranial aspect of the auricle, and if they be carefully dissected, several of them will be noticed to pierce the cartilage to reach the integument on its outer surface. Communications may also be made out between these twigs and the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. The mastoid branch extends upwards upon the mastoid process, where it is connected with the posterior auricular and small occipital nerves. Posterior Triangle of the Neck.—Whilst the subject is lying upon its face we can only obtain a very meagre idea of this triangle—indeed, it is only its upper and least important part which can be exposed. To bring the boundaries, floor and contents, of this portion into view, the dissector should begin by cleaning the cervical portion of the trapezius. Occupying the interval between the trapezius and sterno-mastoid, two other contiguous muscles taking a somewhat oblique course, will be observed. The higher of these is the splenius capitis, and the lower is the levator anguli scapulae. These, together with the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, must be cleaned. In carrying out this dissection the dissector must proceed with some degree of caution ; and above all he must be careful not to raise the sterno-mastoid nor disturb the cervical nerves which lie under cover of it, because these can be studied to much greater advantage when the subject is turned. Further, the small lymphatic glands termed the glandules conca-4g HEAD AND NECK. tenata, which lie along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, must be preserved, and the spinal accessory nerve, and two or three cervical nerves crossing from the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid to the trapezius, should be dissected out. The boundaries of the triangular space of which the upper part is thus displayed will be seen to be— in front, the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; behind, the anterior border of the trapezius. The apex, which is directed upwards, is formed at the superior curved line of the occipital bone by the apposition of the occipital attachments of these two muscles. The floor of that portion of the space exposed will be observed to be formed by the splenius capitis and the levator anguli scapulae. But it often happens that the occipital attachments of the sterno- mastoid and trapezius (more especially of the latter) are so poorly developed that they fail to meet on the superior curved line of the occipital bone. In this case a small portion of the complexus (readily recognised by the vertical direction of its fibres) will be noticed entering into the formation of the floor above the level of the splenius. The contents of the space in so far as they can be seen in the present position of the body, are-(i.) the glandule concate- nate • (2) the. great auricular and small occipital nerves as they appear at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle; (3.) the spinal accessory nerve the cervical nerves to the trapezius, and one or two small nerves from the cervical plexus to the levator anguli scapulae. An additional structure alsoDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 49 enters the space when the sterno-mastoid and trapezius do not meet to form a distinct apex for the triangle —viz., the occipital artery. In such a case a small portion of the vessel will be noticed upon the complexus. s The Spinal Accessory Nerve appears in the posterior triangle by emerging from the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It crosses the triangle obliquely, running from above downwards and back- wards, and finally disappears under the anterior border of the trapezius. The Cervical Branches to the Trapezius, two or three in number, spring from the third and fourth cervical nerves. They enter the posterior triangle by leaving the shelter of the sterno-mastoid, and are earned downwards and backwards across the space parallel with, but at a lower level than the spinal accessory nerve. This, together with the fact that they are somewhat smaller than the spinal accessory ^ sufficient to distinguish between these nerves, they finally disappear under the anterior border of the trapezius. Reaection of Trapezius.-On the second day after the subject has been placed on its face, the SseT 71 ^ refl£Cted " co"j™^ion with the dissector of the arm. First separate the muscle from he oc Pltal bon£j and then d.v.de .t an n!°mK °f the VertA™ ™° °lxeiiriSed thr°Wn °Utwards towards ^go • HEAD AND NECK. insertion. On its deep surface the spinal accessory nerve the cervical nerves of supply, and the superficial cervical artery, will be noticed. It is the duty of the dissector of the upper limb to dissect these, but the dissector of the head and neck should trace the super- ficial cervical artery to its origin from the transversalis colli. Levator Anguli Scapulae.-This muscle must next be dissected, and its attachments defined. In cleaning it, certain nerve-twigs (usually two in number) from the third and fourth cervical nerves, will be observed entering its substance. Further passing downwards under cover of this muscle, the nerve to the' rhomboids and the posterior scapular artery will be found Almost invariably the nerve to the rhomboids gives one or two twigs to the levator anguli scapulae. The levator anguli scapula arises by four slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper four cervical vertebrae. These unite to form an elongated muscle which extends downwards and backwards to be inserted into the upper part of the vertebral border of the scapula, from the superior angle to the spine. As already noted, the nerve- supply of the levator anguli scapulae comes from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and also from the nerve to the rhomboids. The Posterior Scapular Artery should be followed to its origin from the transversalis colli arterv Having satisfied himself upon this point, the dissector must proceed no further with the dissectionDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 51 of the transversalis colli, as it can be displayed to greater advantage after the subject has been turned. The transversalis colli artery will be seen to terminate near the outer margin of the levator anguli scapulae, by dividing into the superficial cervical and posterior scapular arteries. The former of these proceeds upon the superficial aspect of the levator anguli scapulae, whilst the latter passes under cover of that muscle. It is the duty of the dissector of the upper limb to trace the further course of the posterior scapular artery along the base of the scapula. Omohyoid — Supra-scapular Artery and Nerve.—The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the supra-scapular artery and nerve can now be displayed by dissecting towards the upper margin of the scapula. This dissection must be effected in conjunction with the dissector of the upper limb, and it is well not to expose these structures at the present stage for more than an inch from the upper border of the scapula. The slender posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle will be seen to arise from the upper border of the scapula, immediately behind the supra-scapular notch. It also derives fibres from the ligament which bridges across this notch. The further connections of the omo-hyoid will be studied in the dissection of the triangles of the neck after the body has been turned. The supra-scapular artery will be noticed to enter the supra-spinous fossa of the scapula, by passing over52 HEAD AND NECK. the supra-scapular ligameut. The suprascapular nerve, on the other hand, is carried into the fossa under cover of the ligament. This completes the second day's work, and on the same day the dissector of the upper limb must finish his share of the dissection of the back, so as to allow the dissector of the head and neck to begin the examination of the deeper structures on the dorsal aspect of the trunk. Two days are allowed for this dissection, and these may be disposed of in the following manner :-On the first day all the muscles, fasciae, nerves, and blood- vessels of the back, with the exception of the sub- occipital triangle, should be studied; on the second day, the sub-occipital space must be examined, and the spinal cord displayed. Should the dissector find that the work is greater than he can undertake in the allotted time, the sub-occipital space may be left over until the head and neck is removed from the trunk. Serrati Muscles.-These are two thin sheets of fleshy fibres, which are placed upon the posterior aspect of the thoracic wall. The serratus posticus superior is much the smaller of the two ; it arises by a thin aponeurotic tendon-(i.) from the low* part of the ligamentum nuch* ; (2.) from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; and (3.) from the spinous processes of the upper two « vertebra From this origin it proceeds obi quely flownwards and outwards, and is inserted by distinctDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 53 digitations into the outer surfaces of four ribs—viz, the second, third, fourth, and fifth—a short distance in front of their angles. The serratus posticus inferior will be brought into view by raising and throwing inwards that portion of latissimus dorsi which the dissector of the upper limb has left attached to the lumbar fascia. The serratus posticus inferior will then be observed to take origin from the spinous processes of the last two dorsal and upper two lumbar vertebrae, as well as from the supra- spinous ligaments which stretch between these bony prominences. The dissector will note, however, that this is not an independent and distinct attachment, but that it is effected through the medium of the vertebral aponeurosis and posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, with both of which the aponeurotic tendon of the muscle blends. The precise extent of the origin is thus rendered somewhat obscure. Directed upwards and outwards, the muscle is inserted by four digitations into the lower borders of the four lower ribs. Vertebral Aponeurosis and Lumbar Fascia.— It is now necessary that the student should study the connections of these fasciae. The connections of the vertebral aponeurosis can be easily made out. It is the strong, but thin and transparent fascia, which bridges across the hollow between the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae and the first portion of the ribs; and it confines in this hollow the proper muscles of the spine and head; Make a transverse incision through54 HEAD AND NECK. it about the middle of the dorsal region, and introduce under it the handle of a knife. On gently pushing this inwards between the fascia and the subjacent muscles, its attachment to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae and supra-spinous ligaments will be made out • next carry the handle of the knife outwards, and the fascia will be seen to be firmly fixed externally to the angles of the ribs. Follow it upwards and down- wards, and particularly note its different relation to the two serrati muscles. Superiorly it proceeds under cover */the serratus posticus superior and splenius muscles, and is lost in the deep fascia of the neck ; infenorly it blends with the aponeurotic tendons of the serratus posticus inferior and the latissimus dorsi, and forms the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia. The lumbar fascia is an exceedingly dense aponeur- otic structure, which gives great support to the muscles of the loins, and also serves as a means of origin for two of the flat muscles of the abdominal wall-viz., the transversalis abdominis and obliquus internus It is attached internally to the vertebral column by three distinct lamellae, which are separated from each other by intervening muscular masses. The posterior or superficial lamella is at present seen stretching out- wards on either side of the lumbar spines. It is formed, as we have already observed, by a continua- tion downwards of the vertebral aponeurosis, and by a union with this of the aponeurotic tendons of the latissimus dorsi and the serratus posticus inferior Divide this lamella in the longitudinal direction about one inch external to the middle line.DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 55 The aponeurosis may thus be raised from the sub- jacent erector spinas, and its connections made out. Mesially it will be seen to have a strong attachment to the tips of the lumbar spines and the intervening supra-spinous ligaments; inferiorly it is fixed to the back part of the crest of the ilium, and to the sub- jacent tendon of the erector spinae, where this lies upon the dorsum of the sacrum. Fascia transversalis. External oblique. Internal oblique. Transversalis. Latissimus dorsi. Serratus post. inf. Fig. 11. Diagram to show the connections of the lumbar fascia. The erector spinae should now be pushed inwards either with the fingers or with the handle of a knife. This proceeding will bring into view the second or middle lamella of the lumbar fascia. Further, the union of the posterior and middle lamellae, beyond the outer border of the erector spinae and the attachment of the middle lamella to the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, may be56 HEAD AND NECK. seen. Note, however, that whilst the main attach- ment of this lamella is to the apices of the transverse processes, it also extends inwards between them and is attached to their contiguous margins. The next step consists in dividing the middle lamella longitudi- nally close to its vertebral attachment. The quad- ratus lumborum is then brought into view, and gently raising the middle lamella from its surface until its outer border is exposed, the whole muscle should be pushed inwards. This brings into view the third or anterior lamella of the lumbar fascia,, and its junction on the one hand with the middle lamella, and on the other with the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae close to the roots of the transverse processes, can be readily made out. The lumbar fascia, therefore, is formed at the outer borders of the erector spinae and quadratus lumborum muscles by the union of these three lamellae. Sup- eriorly, it is attached to the last rib; inferiorly, it is fixed to the crest of the ilium ; whilst externally it is continued into the transversalis abdominis muscle, of which it may be considered to be the posterior aponeurosis. By its superficial surface it gives origin to fibres of the internal oblique muscle of the abdo- minal wall. Splenius Muscle—The serratus posticus superior must be divided close to its origin from the vertebral spines, and turned outwards in order that the splenius muscle may be fully displayed. The splenius has a continuous origin from rather57 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. more than the lower half of the ligamentum nuchae, and from the spines of the seventh cervical and upper six dorsal vertebrae. From this the fibres pass obliquely upwards and outwards in the form of a thick, flat muscle, which soon divides into a cervical and a cranial portion. These are termed respectively the splenius colli and the splenius capitis. The splenius colli turns forwards and is inserted, behind the levator anguli scapulae, by three or four tendinous slips, into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the upper three or four cervical vertebrae. The splenius capitis passes under cover of the upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and gains insertion into the lower part of the mastoid process and into the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. To obtain a view of this insertion, the sterno-mastoid muscle may be divided along the superior curved line of the occipital bone as far as the mastoid process. Upon no account, however, detach it from the mastoid process. Dissection.—The erector spinae and complexus muscles must now be dissected. Begin by reflecting the splenius muscle. Detach it from its origin and throw it outwards and upwards towards its insertion. In doing this preserve the cutaneous branches of the cervical nerves which pierce it. Next remove the vertebral aponeurosis and turn the latissimus dorsi, the serratus posticus inferior, and the superficial lamella of the lumbar fascia outwards.58 HEAD AND NECK. Erector Spinse—Under this name we include a series of muscular strands which stretch with a greater or less degree of continuity along the entire length of the dorsal aspect of the spinal column. In the lumbar region it constitutes a bulky fleshy mass which may be considered the starting point. This bulky mass sends a pointed process downwards on the back of the sacrum, and has the following origin :— (i.) from the spines of the lower two dorsal, all the lumbar and all the sacral vertebrae; (2.) from the supra-spinous ligaments which bind the lumbar and dorsal spines together; (3.) from the back of the sacrum and from the posterior sacro-coccygeal liga- ment ; (4.) from the posterior fifth of the iliac crest. In great part the superficial surface of this muscular mass is covered by a very dense tendon, which in its lower part becomes blended, as we have already noted, with the superficial lamella of the lumbar fascia. As the erector spinse is followed upwards it is seen to divide into three columns. The outer column first separates from the general mass, and to it the name of sacro-lumbalis or ilio-costalis is given ; the middle column is termed the lo.ngissimus dorsi ; and the inner column, which only becomes quite distinct as we approach the upper part of the dorsal region, is called the spinalis dorsi. Sacro-lumbalis.—The inter-muscular interval be- tween this muscle and the longissimus dorsi becomes apparent about the level of the last rib. The separa-DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 59 tion is rendered all the more distinct from the external branches of the posterior primary divisions of the dorsal spinal nerves appearing in the interval. Turn the muscle outwards with the handle of the knife, and clean its slips of insertion. The nerves must, at the same time, be carefully preserved. The sacro-lumbalis will now be observed to end in six or seven tendinous slips, which are inserted into the angles of the six or seven lower ribs. But wher- ever the sacro-lumbalis drops one of these slips, another tendinous slip takes origin from the upper border of the same rib. In this way a second muscle is formed, which continues the outer column of the erector spinse upwards. This muscle is called the musculus accessorius. The Musculus Accessorius, therefore, arises close to the inner side of the sacro-lumbalis by six tendinous slips from the upper borders of the six lower ribs. It terminates in tendons which are inserted into the angles of the upper six ribs, and also into the transverse process of the lowest cervical vertebra. Cervicalis Ascendens.— This muscle may be looked upon as the continuation of the outer column upwards into the neck. It arises close to the inner side of the accessorius by four slips from the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth ribs, and is inserted into trans- verse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae.HEAD AND NECK. 6o Longissimus Dorsi.—The longissimus dorsi is the largest of the three divisions into which the erector spinae splits, and it extends upwards as high as the first dorsal vertebra. It is inserted by two distinct rows of tendinous and fleshy slips. The inner row consists of a series of tendons attached in the dorsal region to the tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae, and in the loins to the accessory pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebrae; the outer row is composed of fleshy slips, which are inserted in the dorsal region into the lower ten ribs, midway between their tubercles and angles, and in the loins to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. But the muscle does not end in the dorsal region ; it is carried up into the neck, and even reaches as high as the mastoid process of the skull by two muscular continu- ations termed respectively— (i.) the transversalis cervicis, and (2.) the trachelo-mastoid. Transversalis Cervicis—This muscle takes origin in the upper dorsal region, by four or five slips from the transverse processes of a corresponding number of the highest dorsal vertebrae, and it gains insertion into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae, with the exception of the first and the last. The Trachelo-Mastoid is prolonged upwards in the neck under cover of the splenius. Its origin from the transverse processes of three or four of the upper dorsal vertebrae is intimately associated with that of the transversalis cervicis—so much so, indeed, thatDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 61 the two muscles have been described under the names of transversalis cervicis and capitis. In addition to its dorsal origin, however, it also draws three or four slips from the articular processes of a like number of the lower cervical vertebrae. The narrow fleshy band which results is inserted into the back part of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius capitis and sterno-mastoid muscles. Spinalis Dorsi.—This, the innermost, shortest, and weakest of the three columns, is in some respects the most difficult to define. Below, it is intimately- blended with the longissimus dorsi, but it may be regarded as taking origin • by four tendons from the spines of the two upper lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebrae. These, by their union, form a small muscle, which is inserted by a series of slips into a very variable number of the upper dorsal spines. It is closely connected with the subjacent semi-spinalis dorsi. Occipital Artery.—This vessel has already been observed crossing the apex of the posterior triangle (P- 49)> and its terminal branches have been dissected as they ramify in the scalp (p. 12). The second part of the vessel, which extends from under shelter of the mastoid process, along the superior curved line of the occipital bone, to the point where it pierces the trapezius to become superficial, can now be fully exposed. To effect this, the trachelo-mastoid must be divided a short distance below its insertion, and62 HEAD AND NECK. along with the splenius capitis thrown upwards as far as possible. At first this portion of the occipital artery is very deeply placed. Indeed, no less than five structures lie superficial to it. These are (enumerating them in order from the vessel outwards)—(i.) the origin of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; (2.) the mastoid process ; (3.) the trachelo-mastoid ; (4.) the Trapezius. Sterno-cleido-mastoid \ Splenius Capitis. Trach. Mast. Mast. Pro. Digast. Complexus. Sup. Oblique Trans. Atlas. > Diagram of the occipital artery. splenius capitis ; and (5.) the sterno-mastoid* As the artery runs backwards, it very soon emerges from under cover of the first three of these structures, and a little farther on it leaves the shelter of the splenius ; so that it is covered by the sterno-mastoid alone. Issu- ing from under the posterior border of this muscle, the artery crosses the apex of the posterior triangle, and disappears under the trapezius, which it finally * It is not uncommon to find the artery at this point of its course nearer the surface. In this case it passes backwards between the splemus and the trachelo-mastoid.DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 63 pierces near the external occipital protuberance, to reach the scalp. Two muscles constitute its deep relations—viz., the insertion of the superior oblique and the complexus. The following branches may be traced from this portion of the occipital artery :— (1.) Arteria princeps cervicis. (2.) Mastoid. (3.) Muscular. The arteria princeps cervicis is a twig of some size, which gives off a small branch to the deep surface of the splenius, and then sinks under cover of the complexus, where it will be subsequently dissected. The small mastoid artery enters the mastoid foramen to supply the diploe and the meninges of the brain. The muscular twigs go to the neighbouring muscles. The veins corresponding to the occipital artery are two, or perhaps three in number. They drain the blood from the occipital portion of the scalp, and open into the large vena profunda cervicis. The outermost of the occipital veins effects, as a general rule, a communication with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. Complexus Muscle.—In cleaning this muscle, and in denning its attachments, care must be taken of the internal branches of the posterior primary divisions of the second, third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves. The first of these—or, in other words, the great64 HEAD AND NECK. occipital—runs little risk of injury from its great size, but the others are liable to be overlooked. They all emerge from the substance of the muscle close to the mesial plane. The complexus muscle placed in the cervical and upper dorsal regions inclines obliquely upwards and inwards to its insertion into the occiput. It arises by seven tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the last cervical and upper six dorsal vertebrae and by three slips from the articular processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. A thick fleshy muscle is thus formed, and this is inserted into a large, somewhat oval impression between the superior and inferior curved lines of the occipital bone, close to its crest. The muscle narrows somewhat as it passes upwards, and it is separated from its neighbour of the opposite side by the ligamentum nuchse. The inner portion of the muscle, which is to a certain extent distinct from the general mass, and is divided into two bellies by an intermediate tendon, is frequently designated the biventer cervicis. Dissection.—The complexus must now be reflected by detaching it from the occiput and throwing it outwards. This dissection requires great care, not only with a view to preserve the nerves which have been seen to perforate it to reach the surface, but also on account of the numerous important structures which it covers. In its upper part it lies over the sub-occipital triangle and the muscles bounding it, whilst below this it covers the semi-spinalis muscle.65 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. A thick dense fascia is placed over these subjacent parts, and in this we find certain of the cervical nerves and the anastomosis between the arteria princeps cervicis and arteria profunda cervicis. The dissector must specially look for a small twig from the sub- occipital nerve which enters the deep surface of the upper part of the complexus, and for a larger branch to the same muscle from the great occipital nerve. The inner margin of the complexus will be seen to be in contact with a mesial fibrous partition which separates it from the corresponding muscle of the opposite side. This is the ligamentum nuchae. The Ligamentum Nuchae is a strong fibrous partition placed in the mesial plane between the muscles on the back of the neck. It represents a powerful elastic structure in quadrupeds, which helps to sustain the weight of the dependent head. In man, however, there is not much elastic tissue developed in its midst, and it appears to be a con- tinuation upwards of the supra-spinous ligament from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance. In shape it is somewhat triangular. By its base it is attached to the crest of the occipital bone ; by its anterior border it is fixed by a series of slips to the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and to the bifid spines of the cervical vertebrae in the intervals between their two tubercles. Its apex is formed by its attachment to the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, whilst its posterior border is in a , measure free and gives origin to the part hi. fHEAD AND NECK. 66 trapezius, rhomboid, serratus posticus superior, and splenius muscles. Fig. 12. Ligamentum nucha?.-(Cruveilhier) (o) Occipital bone. (»cl) First cervical vertebra. (vc~) Seventh cervical vertebra. Arteria Princeps Cervicis and Arteria Pro- funda Oervicis.—The deep cervical artery springs from the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian, and it reaches the dorsum by passing backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. At the presentDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 67 stage of the dissection it is seen ascending upon the semi-spinalis colli muscle and anastomosing with the arteria princeps cervicis. The latter artery, as we have seen, is a branch of the occipital. Both vessels like- wise anastomose with twigs from the vertebral artery. The arteria profunda cervicis is accompanied by a large vein—the vena profunda cervicis. This vessel begins in the sub-occipital region, where it is joined by the occipital veins, and it ends in the vertebral vein close to its termination. It reaches this point by turning forwards under the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra. Posterior Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves.—The nerves of the back must now be examined. They come from the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves. With four exceptions (viz., the first cervical fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerves), each posterior division will be found to divide into an external and an internal branch. Examine these nerves successively in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions. It is well, however, to defer the dissection of the sacral and coccygeal nerves until the multifidus spinae muscle has been studied. Cervical Region.—Here the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are eight in number. The posterior division of the first or sub-occipital nerve, which, as we have seen, fails to divide into an external and an internal branch, lies deeply in the sub-occipital triangle, and will be examined when this space is dissected. The second nerve is very large, and appears between68 HEAD AND NECK. the neural arches of the atlas and axis vertebrae; the succeeding six make their appearance a short distance farther out by emerging from the intervertebral foramina and turning backwards under cover of the posterior inter-transverse muscles. The external branches are of small size, and are entirely devoted to the supply of muscles. They give twigs to the splenius colli and to the cervical and cranial prolongations of the erector spinas. The internal branches are not all distributed alike, nor indeed do they present the same relations. The second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves run inwards towards the spinous processes, superficial to the semi-spinalis colli muscle, and under cover of the complexus. When close to the mesial plane they turn backwards and pierce the complexus, splenius, and trapezius muscles to become superficial. In their course to the surface they give numerous twigs to the neighbouring muscles. The internal branch of the second nerve is remark- able for its large size. It receives the special name of great occipital It will be noticed turning round the lower border of the inferior oblique muscle, to which it supplies some twigs. The distribution of this nerve on the occiput has already been noticed (p. io). In passing to the surface it pierces the complexus and trapezius. To the former it gives several twigs. The internal branch of the third nerve likewise sends an offset to the occipital portion of the scalp (p. 45). The internal branches of the lower three posterior divisions of the cervical nerves resemble the preceding,DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 69 in so far that they take a course inwards towards the spinous processes. They differ from them, however, in running under cover of the semi-spinalis muscle, and in being entirely expended in the supply of muscles. Dorsal Region.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in this region proceed outwards under cover of the middle column of the erector spinae muscle, and appear in the interval between the longissimus dorsi on the one hand, and the sacro-lumbalis and accessorius on the other. The upper six or seven of these nerves are exhausted in the supply of the middle and outer columns of the erector spinae, and the levatores costarum ; the lower five or six, however, are considerably larger, and contain both motor and sensory fibres. After giving up their motor fibres, therefore, to the same muscles, they become superficial, by piercing the serratus posticus inferior, and the latissimus dorsi, in a line with the angles of the ribs.* The internal branches are also distributed differently in the upper and lower portions of the dorsal region. The lower five or six are very small, and end in the multifidus spinae. The upper six or seven pass inwards between the multifidus and semi-spinalis, and after supplying the muscles between which they are situated, they are directed backwards, and become superficial. In passing towards the surface they pierce the splenius, rhomboideus, and trapezius muscles.* * The cutaneous distribution of these nerves has already been exam- ined by the dissector of the upper limb.70 HEAD AND NECK. Lumbar Region—The internal branches of the posterior divisions of the five lumbar nerves are of small size, and like the corresponding twigs in the lower dorsal region, they have a purely muscular distribution. They end in the multifidus spinae muscle. The external branches sink into the substance of the erector spinas, and are concerned in the supply of that muscle, and also of the lumbar inter-transverse muscles. The upper three of these nerves are of large size, and become cutaneous by piercing the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. They have already been traced by the dissector of the lower limb to the skin of the gluteal region. The lowest external branch communi- cates with the corresponding branch of the first sacral nerve. Blood-vessels of the Back.-In the cervical region the dissector has already noticed the artena profunda cervicis, the second part of the occipital artery, and its branch termed the arteria princeps cervicis. Deep in the sub-occipital region he will subsequently meet with a small portion of the verte- bral artery. In addition to these, however, minute twigs may be discovered in a well-injected subject, passing backwards from the vertebral artery, where it occupies the intervals between the tranverse processes, and also where it lies in the sub-occipital space. These supply the muscles, and anastomose with the other arteries in this region. In the dorsal region the dorsal branches of the71 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. aortic intercostal arteries make their appearance between the transverse processes. Each of these vessels reaches this point by passing backwards in the interval between the body of a vertebra and the superior costo - transverse ligament. It joins the corresponding posterior primary division of the spinal nerve, and with it is distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. In the lumbar region similar branches are derived from the lumbar arteries. They are distributed upon the same plan. In both dorsal and lumbar regions these vessels, before reaching the back, furnish a small spinal branch which enters the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramen. These will be traced at a later period. The accompanying veins of the dorsal branches of the lumbar and intercostal arteries pour their blood into the lumbar and intercostal veins. These veins are of large size, being joined by tributaries from the dorsal spinal venous plexus, and also by others from the interior of the spinal canal. The Great Oblique Rotator Muscle of the Spine.—This muscle occupies the vertebral groove and stretches from the back of the sacrum up to the axis vertebra. Its fibres pass obliquely upwards and inwards from the transverse processes to the spines of the vertebrae, and it consists of three strata, to each of which a separate name is applied. The superficial layer is termed the semi-spinalis muscle; the inter-j2 HEAD AND NECK. mediate layer is called the multifidus spina; whilst the deep stratum is composed of a series of short muscles termed the rotatores spines. In the dorsal region alone do we find all three layers ; in the cervical region two layers exist—viz., the semi-spinalis and multifidus ; in the lumbar and sacral regions the multifidus alone is present. Semi-spinalis Muscle.—This muscle is already in great part exposed. To display it fully, however, it is necessary to remove the spinalis dorsi muscle. It is described in two parts—the semi-spinalis dorsi and semi-spinalis colli. The semi-spinalis dorsi is composed of a series of muscular slips arising from the transverse processes of five of the lower dorsal vertebrae (viz., from the sixth to the tenth). It is inserted into the spines of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebrae. The semi-spinalis colli lies under cover of the corn- plexus. It springs from the transverse processes of the upper five dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the spines of four cervical vertebrae (viz., from the second to the fifth). The Multifidus Spinse is of great extent. Be- ginning in the sacral region, it passes upwards as far as the axis vertebra. It is weakly developed in the dorsal region, but is strongly marked in the loins and in the neck—more especially in the former. To bring it thoroughly into view, the semi-spinalis muscle must be detached from the spines and thrown out- wards; the erector spinae muscle must also beDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 73 separated from the lumbar and sacral spines and drawn aside—if, indeed, this has not been already done in following out the nerves. In the lumbar and sacral regions, the multifldus will be seen to constitute a thick fleshy mass which clings closely to the vertebral spines. In this situa- tion it has a very extensive origin—viz. (i.) from the deep surface of the aponeurotic origin of the erector spinse; (2.) from the posterior surface of the sacrum as low as the fourth aperture ; (3.) from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; (4.) from the posterior superior spine of the ilium; and (5.) from the mammillary pro- cesses of the lumbar vertebras. In the dorsal region it takes origin from the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and in the cervical region from the articular processes of at least four of the lower cervical vertebrae. It is inserted into the whole length of the various spinous processes of the vertebrae as high up as the axis. The Rotatores Spinae are eleven small muscles which may be exposed by raising the multifldus in the dorsal region. Each muscle springs from the root of a transverse process and is inserted into the lamina of the vertebra immediately above, close to the root of the spinous process. Inter-spinales and Inter-transversales. — The •dissector should next examine the minute inter- spinous and inter-transverse muscles. The interspinous muscles can hardly be said to exist in the dorsal region, except in its upper and lower74 HEAD AND NECK. part, where they are present in a rudimentary con- dition. In the neck they are arranged in pairs—two occupying each interspinous interval, with the exception of that between the axis and atlas. In the lumbar region they are also well marked and in pairs ; here they are attached to the whole length of the spinous processes. The inter-transverse muscles are strongly developed in the lumbar region, and occupy the entire length of the inter-transverse intervals. Additional rounded fasciculi may be observed passing between the accessory processes. These are termed the inter- accessorii. In. the dorsal region^inter-transverse muscles—very weak and poorly developed—are only found in the lower three or four spaces. In the cervical region the inter-transversales are present in pairs, but they will be examined at a sub- sequent period. Levatores Costarum.—These constitute a series of twelve fan-shaped muscles, which pass from the transverse processes to the ribs. To bring them thoroughly into view the longissimus dorsi, sacro- lumbal, and accessorius muscles should be removed. The first muscle of the series springs from the tip of the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and expanding as it proceeds downwards and outwards, is inserted into the outer border of the first rib, immedi- ately beyond the tubercle. Each of the succeeding muscles takes origin from the tip of a dorsal transverseDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 75 process, and is inserted into the outer surface of the rib immediately below, along a line extending from the tubercle to the angle. Posterior Primary Divisions of the Sacral Nerves.—The dissector should now endeavour to trace out these minute nervous twigs. To expose the first three the multifidus spinae muscle covering the upper three sacral apertures must be carefully removed. Each of these three nerves will be found to divide in the usual manner into an internal and external branch. The internal branches are very fine, and end in the multifidus spinae. The external branches are somewhat larger, and join together so as to form a looped plexus upon the back of the sacrum. This communicates above with the external branch of the last lumbar nerve and below with the posterior division of the fourth sacral nerve. Branches proceed from the loops thus formed to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and then become superficial to supply a limited area of skin over the gluteal region. They have already been noticed in this distribution by the dissector of the lower limb. The last two posterior primary divisions of the sacral nerves do not exhibit the usual division into external and internal branches. They are very small, and, after communicating with each other, and also with the coccygeal nerve, they distribute filaments to, the parts on the back of the lower76 HEAD AND NECK. portion of the sacrum and on the dorsal aspect of coccyx. Minute arteries—branches of the lateral sacral artery —accompany the sacral nerves and anastomose with twigs from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. The Posterior Division of the Coccygeal Nerve is a slender twig which emerges from the inferior opening of the sacral canal, and, after being joined by a filament from the last sacral nerve, is dis- tributed on the back of the coccyx. Dorsal Spinal Venous Plexus.—A plexus of veins is situated upon the superficial aspect of the neural arches of the vertebrae, and traces of it may be detected by carefully removing the multifidus muscle. This plexus collects blood from the integu- ment and muscles of the back, and in the dorsal and lumbar regions pours it into the posterior tributaries of the intercostal and lumbar veins. In the neck it is especially well marked, and its blood is emptied into the vertebral vein. It is hardly to be expected, however, that the dissector, in an ordinary dissection, will make out much of these veins. The last day upon which the body is allowed to remain in its present position must be devoted to the dissection of the sub-occipital triangle, and to the display of the spinal cord, its membranes, nerve- roots, and blood-vessels. Sub-Occipital Triangle.-This space may now be examined, but in the event of the dissector beingDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 77 pushed for time, it is better that he should proceed to expose the spinal cord, and defer the dissection of the sub-occipital region until the head and neck has been removed from the body. The sub-occipital space is a small triangular area, exposed by the reflection of the complexus muscle. It is bounded by three muscles—viz. (i.) the rectus capitis posticus major, which forms its- upper and inner boundary; (2.) the obliquus inferior, which limits it below ; and (3.) the obliquus superior, which bounds it above and to the outer side. When dis- sected, its floor will be found to consist of two structures—viz., the posterior arch of the atlas and the thin posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, whilst it contains within its area a portion of the vertebral artery and the posterior primary division of the sub- occipital or first cervical nerve. Before cleaning the bounding muscles the sub- occipital nerve must be secured. This can best be done by tracing into the space the minute twig which it has been seen to give to the deep surface of the complexus, or if this has not been observed, by endeavouring to find the twig which it gives to the rectus capitis posticus major. The tissue in which the nerve lies is very dense, and the dissection in consequence is rendered somewhat difficult. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major.—This muscle springs by a pointed origin from the spine of the axis, and, expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, is inserted into the occipital bone along the outer portion78 HEAD AND NECK. of the inferior curved line and the surface immedi- ately below. The Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor is a minute fan-shaped muscle, placed to the inner side and upon a deeper plane than the preceding muscle. It takes origin from the tubercle on the posterior arch of the atlas, and is inserted into the inner part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the surface between this and the foramen magnum. The Obliquus Capitis Inferior stretches from the bifid spine of the axis, from the extremity of which it takes origin, to the posterior tubercle of the trans- verse process of the atlas. The great occipital nerve will be seen hooking round its lower border. The Obliquus Capitis Superior springs from the posterior tubercle of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the occipital bone in the interval between the curved lines and to the outer side of the complexus. Sub-occipital Nerve—The posterior division of the sub-occipital nerve does not divide into an external and internal branch. It is also peculiar in the manner in which it leaves the spinal canal. It enters the sub-occipital triangle by passing back- wards between the posterior arch of the atlas, and the vertebral artery ; so that even in cases where all its branches have been divided, the trunk is readily- found on account of these precise relations. The sub-occipital nerve at once breaks up into branches79 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. which go to supply five muscles—viz., the two recti, the two oblique muscles, and the complexus. In addition to these muscular twigs, however, it gives a communicating, and sometimes a cutaneous filament. The communicating branch generally proceeds from the nerve to the obliquus capitis inferior, and joins the internal branch of the second cervical nerve (great occipital); this in turn is usually joined with the corresponding branch of the third cervical nerve, and in this way the posterior cervical plexus, described by Cruveilhier, is formed. The cutaneous branch when present accompanies the occipital artery to the integument over the occiput. Vertebral Artery.—It is only a small portion of this vessel which occupies the sub-occipital triangle. Emerg- ing from the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, it runs backwards and inwards in the groove upon the posterior arch of the same bone. In this course it crosses the sub-occipital nerve, and lies immediately behind the lateral mass of the atlas. It leaves the space and enters the cranial cavity through the fora- men magnum by turning forwards below the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament and piercing the dura mater. Small branches proceed from the vertebral artery in this situation to supply the parts in its immediate neighbourhood, and to anastomose with the arteria princeps cervicis and the arteria profunda cervicis. Dissection to open the Spinal Canal.—The first step consists in thoroughly cleaning the vertebral laminae and spinous processes upon either side. The80 HEAD AND NECK. multifidus spinae must also be completely removed from the back of the sacrum. At the same time the posterior primary divisions must be retained, so that their continuity with the various spinal nerve- trunks may be afterwards established. The posterior wall of the spinal canal should now be removed in o?ie piece by sawing through the laminae of the vertebrae on either side, and dividing the ligamenta subflava, from the third cervical vertebra down to the lower opening of the canal on the back of the sacrum. In making this dissection the student must attend to the following points:—(i.) the cut should be directed through the laminae close to the inner side of the articular processes ; (2.) the saw must be used upon an oblique plane, so that the cut through the laminae slants slightly inwards ; (3.) in cutting through the cervical laminae the head and neck should hang freely over the end of the table, and be pressed as far forwards as possible whilst the saw is worked from below upwards; (4.) in the case of the lumbar region, where indeed most difficulty will be met, a high block must be placed under the abdomen of the subject, whilst the blocks supporting the chest and pelvis-are removed. It will probably be necessary at this point to have recourse to the hammer and chisel. The laminae and spinous processes which are thus removed are connected with each other by the liga- menta subflava and the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments. They should therefore be laid aside for the present. A description of these ligaments will be found farther on. When the specimen is fresh, how-DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 81 ever, the dissector should note the high elasticity of the ligamenta subflava. This can be tested by stretch- ing the specimen. Between the dura mater and the walls of the spinal canal, the dissector will notice a quantity of loose areolar tissue and soft fat. The latter is especially plentiful in the sacral region, where it resembles somewhat the marrow which occupies the medullary cavity of a long bone. In the midst of this areolo- fatty material, great numbers of large veins and minute arteries are found ramifying upon the walls of the canal. Spinal Arteries.—A minute spinal artery in a well-injected subject will be found entering the spinal canal through each intervertebral foramen, where it usually lies at a higher level than the spinal nerve. These arteries are derived from different sources in the different regions of the spine. In the cervical region they come from the vertebral artery; in the dorsal region from the dorsal branches of the inter- costal arteries; in the lumbar region from the dorsal branches of the lumbar arteries. They supply with blood the spinal cord and its meninges, the bones, the periosteum, and the ligaments; and their arrangement is very much the same in the three regions. Each spinal artery may be looked upon as giving off three main twigs : of these one ramifies upon the deep surface of the neural arches and ligamenta subflava ; another can be followed to the dura mater, which it pierces immediately above the point of exit of the PART III. a82 HEAD AND NECK. corresponding spinal nerve to reach the spinal cord ; whilst the third is carried inwards in front of the dura mater towards the posterior surface of the vertebral bodies. The last-mentioned branches each divide into an ascending and descending twig. These anastomose with the corresponding twigs of the artery above and below, and in this manner a continuous series of minute arterial arcades is formed. From these arcades, branches pass inwards upon the posterior aspect of the vertebral bodies, and join a small median longitudinal artery which extends along the anterior wall of the spinal canal. In the cervical region small branches from the ascending cervical artery also find their way into the spinal canal; whilst in the sacral portion of the canal, the dissector will find branches from the lateral sacral arteries. Intraspinal Veins.-These, sometimes termed the rachidian veins, are very large and very compli- cated in their arrangement. They may be considered to form a posterior and an anterior intraspinal plexus. The posterior intraspinal venous plexus consists of two main longitudinal vessels, united by many cross branches which run along the deep aspect of the neural arches and ligamenta subflava. Above, they communicate with the occipital sinus, whilst all the way down they are connected with the dorsal spinal venous plexus by wide channels which pierce the ligamenta subflava. Laterally they send branches through the intervertebral foramina to join theDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 83 posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins. The anterior intraspinal venous plexus can hardly be dissected whilst the spinal cord and its membranes are in situ, but it will be more convenient to describe it at this stage. Indeed, the dissection is one of great difficulty, and not likely to be successful in ordinary cases. Like the preceding, it is composed of two longitudinal venous channels placed one upon either side of the posterior common ligament of the vertebral bodies, and joined by numerous transverse branches which cross the mesial plane under cover of this ligament. These transverse veins receive large tributaries from the interior of the vertebral bodies. Superiorly the main longitudinal channels communi- cate with the occipital and basilar sinuses within the cranium, whilst laterally, they give off branches which run towards the intervertebral foramina, and join the corresponding branches of the posterior inter- spinal plexus. Meninges of the Spinal Cord—Fig. 13.—The spinal cord, like the brain, with which it is continuous, is enveloped by three membranes termed meninges. The most external investment is a strong fibrous membrane called the dura mater; the second, in order from without inwards, is a non-vascular tunic termed the arachnoid mater; whilst the third and most internal is the pia mater. These membranes are directly continuous with the corresponding investments of the brain. It is now the duty of the dissector to clean84 HEAD AND NECK. the outer surface of the dura mater. This is effected by removing from the spinal canal the loose areolar tissue, soft fat, and posterior intraspinal veins. It is necessary, also, to carefully define the numerous lateral prolongations which the membrane gives to the spinal nerves. Dura Mater—Fig. 13 {d).—In the spinal canal the dura mater constitutes an exceedingly dense and tough fibrous tube, which extends from the foramen magnum above to the base of the sacrum below. Even before this tube of membrane is laid open, the dissector can readily satisfy himself that it is very loosely adapted to the spinal cord, and the nerve-roots constituting the cauda equina ; in other words, it is very capacious as compared with the volume of its contents. Its calibre, moreover, is by no means uniform ; in the cervical and lumbar regions it is considerably wider than in the dorsal region, whilst in the lower part of the lumbar region it rapidly contracts and finally ends by blending with the filum terminale, a fibrous cord which is prolonged downwards through the sacral canal from the extremity of the spinal cord. Above, the dura mater is firmly attached around the margin of the occipital foramen ; below, the filum terminale on which it terminates, can be traced as far as the dorsal aspect of the coccyx, where it is lost by blend- ing with the periosteum investing that bone. If the student recall the characteristics of the dura mater within the cranium, he cannot fail to observe certain striking points of difference between it and85 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. the spinal dura mater. In the first place, its relation to the walls of the spinal canal is altogether different. In the skull, it is closely adherent to the cranial bones, and forms for them an internal periosteum j in the spinal canal, it is separated from the walls by areolar tissue and blood-vessels, and for the very obvious reason that were it adherent, it would interfere with the free movement of the vertebral column. Still, both anteriorly and laterally, certain connections do exist between the spinal walls and the dura mater. Thus the spinal nerves on either side, as they pierce the dura mater, carry with them into the intervertebral foramena tubular sheaths of the membrane, whilst anteriorly loose fibrous prolongations—more numerous above and below than in the dorsal region—connect the dura mater with the posterior common ligament. No connection of any kind exists between the dura mater and the neural arches or ligamenta subflava. Another feature which distinguishes the spinal from the cranial dura mater, is that its two com- ponent layers are not at any point separated to form venous channels, and that it gives off from its deep surface no partitions or septa. These points can be better appreciated when the tube of dura mater is opened. The dissector must therefore proceed to do this with the scissors. The incision should be carried through the membrane in the mesial plane. Care however must be taken not to injure the delicate arachnoid, which is subjacent. The interval between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater, which is now laid open, is termed86 HEAD AND NECK. the subdural space—Fig. 13 (sd). The deep surface of the dura, which is turned towards this space, is smooth, moist, and polished. Upon either side the dissector will notice the series of apertures of exit for the roots of the spinal nerves. These are ranged in pairs opposite each intervertebral foramen, and the subdural space is prolonged outwards for a short distance upon the nerve-roots. Arachnoid Mater—Fig. 13 («).—The arachnoid resembles the dura mater in forming a loose, wide S.p d Fig. 13. Transverse section through the spinal cord and its membranes^ScHWALBE, after Key and Retzius). (Id) Ligamentum denticulatum. (a) Arachnoid mater. (sd) Subdural space. (d) Dura mater. (sp) Septum posticum. (sa p) Sub-araclmold space behind. (rp) Posterior nerve-root. (ds) Sheath of dura mater. (as) Sheath of arachnoid mater. (ra) Anterior nerve-root. (ins) Spinal cord. (sa.a) Sub-arachnoid space in front. investment for the spinal cord ; unlike the dura, how- ever, it is remarkable for its great delicacy and trans- parency. The sac which it forms is most capacious towards its lower part, where it envelopes the extremity of the cord and the collection of long nerve-roots which constitute the cauda equina. Here it can be mostDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 87 easily demonstrated by making an incision into it, and inserting the handle of the scalpel, or, better still, by inflating the sac with air by means of a blow-pipe. Above, the arachnoid mater becomes continuous at the level of the foramen magnum with the correspond- ing membrane which clothes the brain, whilst, laterally, it is prolonged outwards upon the various nerve-roots, thus contributing to each a tubular sheath. These sheathes, however, do not proceed far; they soon cease. Stib-arachnoid space—Fig. 13 (sap.).—This term is applied to the wide space between the arachnoid and pia mater. It is occupied by a variable amount of cerebro-spinal fluid, and in the mesial plane posteriorly it is traversed by a delicate septum, which connects the arachnoid with the pia mater. This partition is named the septum posticum—Fig. 13 (sp.)—and in cervical region it is nearly complete ; lower down, however, it becomes imperfect and broken up. With a little care this septum can easily be demonstrated. The spinal sub-arachnoid space is directly continuous with the cranial sub-arachnoid space. Pia Mater.—Clear away the arachnoid mater, and proceed to the study of the pia mater. This is a firm membrane, closely investing and closely adherent to the spinal cord. In front, it sends a fold into the antero-median fissure of the spinal cord, whilst behind a septum continuous with its deep surface dips into the postero-median fissure. Anteriorly, in the mesial plane, it is thickened in the form of a longitudinal88 HEAD AND NECK. glistening band, which receives the name of the linea splendens. Of course this can only be seen Fig. 14. Lateral view of the spinal cord, dura mater, and ligamentum denticulatum.- (Hirschfeld and Leveille). Hand 2) Fasciculi of origin of nerve-roots. (6) Section through nerve-recta (1 and 2) Fasciculi otorig ^ q{ dura (3) Ligamentum denticulatum. °i"" (4) Anterior nerve-root. mater. (5) Posterior nerve-root. after the cord has been removed from the spinal canal. The Ligamentum Denticulatum—Fig. 14 (3)—isDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 89 a very remarkable fibrous band, which stretches out- wards from either side of the pia mater, so as to connect it with the dura mater. Its pial or inner attachment extends in a continuous line between the anterior and posterior nerve-roots, from the level of foramen magnum above to the level of the body of the first lumbar vertebra below. Its outer margin is widely serrated or denticulated. From twenty to twenty-two denticulations may be recognised. They occur in the intervals between the spinal nerves, and pushing the arachnoid before them, they are attached by their pointed extremities to the inner surface of the dura mater. By means of the ligamentum denticulatum of either side, the spinal cord is suspended in the middle of the sac of dura mater. Spinal Cord.—The spinal cord itself must now be studied in situ. It is a cylindrical structure, slightly flattened in front and behind, which extends from the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, where it is continuous with the medulla oblongata of the brain, to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra. Here it rapidly tapers to a point forming the conns medullaris. From the extremity of this, a slender filament, termed the filum terminate or central ligament, is prolonged downwards. In length, the cord measures in the adult from fifteen to eighteen inches. Throughout the greater part of the dorsal region it presents a uniform girth, but in the cervical andgo HEAD AND NECK. lower dorsal regions it shows marked swellings, termed respectively the cervical and lumbar enlarge- ments. From these expansions proceed the nerves which supply the upper and lower limbs. The cervical swelling is the more evident of the two, and its greatest diameter will be noticed opposite the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. Below, it subsides at the level of the second dorsal vertebra, whilst above it extends as high as the foramen magnum. The lumbar swelling is largest opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra, whilst it first becomes evident at the tenth dorsal vertebra. Filum Terminate.—This delicate thread-like fila- ment lies amidst the numerous long nerve-roots which occupy the lower part of the spinal canal, and it can readily be detected from these (i.) by its glisten- ing appearance, and (2.) from its proceeding from the extremity of the conus medullaris. Although the central canal of the spinal cord is prolonged down its interior for nearly half its length, the filum terminale is chiefly composed of pia mater carried downwards from the conus medullaris. The linea splendens and the lower ends of the hgamenta denticulata may be considered to be continued into it Towards the upper part of the sacral canal it pierces the dura mater, and receives an investment from it, and, finally, reaching the lower end of the sacral canal, it terminates by blending with the peri- osteum on the back of the coccyx or last piece of the sacrum.91 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. Spinal Nerves.—Thirty-one spinal nerves take origin from each side of the spinal cord. These are classified into five groups, according to the vertebrae with which they are associated. The dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves correspond in number with the num- ber of vertebrae in each of these regions,—thus, there are twelve dorsal, five lumbar, and five sacral nerves, each of which issues from the spinal canal below the vertebra with which it numerically corresponds. In the cervical region, however, there are eight nerves, the first of which comes out between the occiput and the atlas, and is therefore distinguished by the special name of the sub-occipital nerve. One nerve only represents the coccygeal group. Spinal Nerve-Roots—(Fig. 15).—Each spinal nerve springs from the side of the spinal cord by two roots— an anterior and a posterior. Except in the case of the sub-occipital nerve (where, indeed, the posterior root is sometimes absent), the posterior nerve-root is the larger of the two. In addition to this, the posterior root is distinguished by possessing an oval ganglion, termed the spinal root-ganglion. There is, likewise, a wide physiological difference between the two roots— the posterior root is composed of sensory fibres, the anterior root consists of motor fibres. Immediately beyond the ganglion the two roots unite to form the spinal nerve-trunk, which, in consequence, contains a mixture of both motor and sensory nerve-fibres. The mode of origin of the two nerve-roots from the spinal cord is somewhat different. In each instance92 HEAD AND NECK. they issue from the cord in several separate fasciculi. In the case of the posterior root these are attached to the cord consecutively along a continuous straight line or slight furrow. The fasciculi of the anterior root, on the other hand, are not so regularly placed, but emerge from the cord over an area of some breadth. Fig. 15. Segments of spinal cord (diagrammatic).-(ScHWALBE, after Allen Thomson). (A) Anterior Aspect. (B) Lateral Aspect. (1) Anterior median fissure. (2) Posterior median fissure. (3 and 5) Fasciculi of anterior nerve-root. (4) Postero-lateral groove. (6) Posterior nerve-root. (6') Spinal ganglion. (7) Anterior primary division. (T) Posterior primary division. The size of the nerve-roots will be observed to differ greatly. The lower lumbar and upper sacral nerve-roots are much the largest, whilst the lower93 DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. sacral and the coccygeal roots are the smallest. In the cervical region the roots increase in size from above downwards, but more rapidly in the lower members of the group ; in the dorsal region the roots of the first nerve are large, but those which succeed it are small and of uniform size. In relative length, and in the direction which they follow in the spinal canal, the nerve-roots also show great diversity. This is due to the spinal cord being so much shorter than the canal in which it lies. In the upper part of the cervical region the nerve- roots are short, and proceed outwards in a more or less horizontal direction. Below this the nerve-roots gradually lengthen, and have to descend in the spinal canal for a distance which is always increasing the farther down we go. The arrangement of the lower dorsal, the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerve-roots, is particularly characteristic. They are exceedingly long, and descend vertically from the lower portion of the cord, in the form of a bunch or leash which, from its appearance, has very fitly been termed the cauda equina. Mode of Exit of Spinal Nerves from Spinal Canal.—But how do the spinal nerves quit the spinal canal? The six lower cervical nerves, the dorsal nerves, and the lumbar nerves, make their exit through the intervertebral foramina; whilst the sacral nerves find their way out by the sacral fora- mina. The two upper cervical nerves, and the coccy- geal nerve, however, follow a different course. The94 HEAD AND NECK. sub-occipital emerges by passing over the neural arch of the atlas, and the second cervical nerve by passing over the neural arch of the axis. The coccygeal nerve leaves the sacral canal through its lower aperture. The Spinal Root-Ganglia.— As we have noted, these ganglia are oval swellings developed upon the posterior nerve-roots just before they unite with the anterior roots to form the spinal nerve-trunks. They are usually found upon the posterior roots of all the nerves, although occasionally the ganglion may be absent in the case of the sub-occipital nerve. Except in the case of the two upper cervical nerves, and the sacral and coccygeal nerves, the spinal ganglia are formed upon the posterior nerve-roots as they lie in the intervertebral foramina. The ganglia of the first two cervical nerves lie upon the neural arches of the first and second cervical vertebrae respectively; the ganglia of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are placed within the sacral canal. Spinal Nerve-Trunks.—These we have seen to be formed by the union of the anterior and posterior nerve-roots immediately beyond the spinal ganglia, and from what has been said it must be evident that this union takes place in the case of the coccygeal and sacral nerves in the sacral canal, in the lumbar, dorsal, and lower six cervical nerves in the intervertebral foramina, and in the case of first two cervical nerves on the neural arches of the atlas and axis.DORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 95 The dissector should open up two or three of the intervertebral foramina in both the dorsal and lumbar regions, so as to expose the ganglia and the nerve- trunks. This can very readily be effected by snipping away the articular processes by means of the bone- pliers. The nerve-trunk will then be seen to be exceedingly short; indeed, it is almost no sooner formed than it divides into its anterior and posterior primary divisions. In the case of the sacral and coccygeal nerves, this sub-division takes place in the sacral canal. The distribution of the posterior primary divisions has already been examined (p. 67). Removal of the Spinal Cord and its Mem- branes.—Cut across the cord and its membranes as high in the neck as possible, and then divide the nerves as they enter the intervertebral foramina. In as many cases as possible take the ganglia with the nerves. If the cord be now placed upon a wooden block, and the dura mater held widely open by pins, a very much better conception of the ligamentum denticulatum can be obtained than when the cord is within the spinal canal. Moreover, the manner in which the nerve-roots pierce the dura mater, and carry with them sheaths of the three membranes, can be studied. The linea splendens, or thickening of the pia mater along the mesial plane on the anterior surface of the cord, should also be looked for. To expose it, the dura mater must be slit open upon this aspect, and the arachnoid removed.96 HEAD AND NECK. Arteries of the Spinal Cord.—It is only in cases where a paint injection has been used that the spinal arteries can be made out satisfactorily. Upon the anterior aspect of the cord in the mesial plane, a slender vessel runs downwards, under cover of the linea splendens of the pia mater. Its calibre is uniform throughout, and where the cord ends, it pro- ceeds onwards into the sacral canal upon the filum terminale. It is not formed by a single vessel, but by a series of inosculating arteries. In its upper part it is constituted by the two anterior spinal arteries which spring from the vertebral within the cranium, and converging upon the anterior face of the medulla oblongata, unite at the level of the foramen magnum. Lower down, the continuity of this single median vessel is maintained by twigs which reach the spinal cord upon the anterior nerve-roots. These twigs in the neck come from the spinal branches of the verte- bral, ascending cervical, and deep cervical arteries ; in the dorsal and lumbar regions, from the spinal twigs of the dorsal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, and from the ilio-lumbar artery; in the sacral region, from the spinal twigs of the lateral sacral arteries. Upon the posterior aspect of the cord, two long, slender, arterial trunks proceed downwards, one upon either side, behind the line of emergence of the fasci- culi which go to build up the posterior nerve-roots. Opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra these arteries terminate. Like the anterior arterial trunk, the posterior arteries are formed by a continuous seriesDORSAL ASPECT OF THE TRUNK. 97 of anastomosing twigs derived from the same sources. The upper part of each, however, is constituted by the posterior spinal branch of the vertebral artery, and arises within the cranium. Briefly, then, the cord may be said to present on its surface three main arterial channels : one in the mesial plane anteriorly, one on either side posteriorly behind the posterior nerve-roots. From these channels pro- ceed the minute twigs which ramify in the pia mater, and supply the cord-substance. Veins of the Spinal Cord—These veins are small . and numerous, and their disposition cannot be said to correspond with that of the arteries. They are very tortuous, and form a plexus with elongated meshes. In the mesial plane in front, a longitudinal vein maybe observed running upwards under cover of the anterior spinal artery. Upon either side, the veins of the spinal cord effect communications, by means of small twigs which run outwards on the nerve-roots, with the veins in the spinal canal; above, they unite in the form of three or four tributaries, which pour their blood into the inferior petrosal sinuses or the inferior cerebellar veins. In its present condition, the anterior surface of the cord may be distinguished from the posterior surface by the following points of difference :— PART III. HHEAD AND NECK. 98 Anterior Surface. (i.) Linea splendens. (2.) Single anterior spinal artery in mesial plane. (3.) Anterior nerve - roots smaller than posterior, and springing by fasci- culi which emerge from the cord, not in a con- tinuous straight line, but irregularly over an area of some width. Posterior Surface. (1.) Two posterior spinal arteries. (2.) Fasciculi of origin of posterior nerve - roots entering the cord along a straight and continu- ous line. (3.) Posterior nerve-roots larger than the anterior, and provided with ganglia. In its present state, the cord is so soft that its constituent parts cannot properly be studied. The dissector should immerse it for a few" weeks'in methylated spirit, or in a large quantity of a saturated solution of bichromate of potash, to harden it Its further examination had therefore better be deferred until the anatomy of the brain is studied. SIDE OP THE NECK. Four days having now been devoted to the dissec- tion of the posterior aspect of the body, the subject is turned on its back, and blocks being placed under the thorax and pelvis, the dissection of the side of the neck is commenced. This region may be said to present a somewhat quadrilateral figure. In front it is bounded by the middle line of the neck ; behind^ it is limited by a line corresponding to the anterior margin of the trapezius muscle; below, is the pro- minent clavicle ; above, the base of the lower jaw, and a line drawn from this to the occiput.SIDE OF THE NECK. 99 Surface Markings.—Certain important landmarks must be recognised before the skin is reflected from this region. The sterno-mastoid muscle, pursuing a diagonal course through the space from its antero- inferior to its postero-superior angle, is, perhaps, the most essential of these. By drawing the head well over to the opposite side, it will be rendered very evident. The region in front of the sterno-mastoid corresponds to the anterior triangle of the neck; that behind it constitutes the posterior triangle. Above the notch of the manubrium sterni, a deep fossa in the middle line and between the tendons of the two sterno- mastoid muscles, must next be noted. Subjacent to this fossa lies the trachea, but it is rare indeed, and only in emaciated individuals, that the rings of this tube can be felt from the surface. In its upper part the trachea is always obscured by the isthmus of the thyroid body which crosses it. The dissector should now run his finger upwards in the middle line of the neck. Beyond the trachea he will come upon the ring-like cricoid cartilage. This is a highly important landmark. With it as his guide, the surgeon is able to mark out the points at which the trachea or larynx may be opened, and also the level at which the common carotid artery is most favour- ably placed for the application of a ligature. Above the cricoid cartilage the finger enters the narrow interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages—a gap which is occupied by the crico-thyroid membrane. It is in this interval that the operation of laryngotomy is performed. Next comes the thyroid cartilage withI00 HEAD AND NECK. its prominent fomum Adami. Beyond the thyroid cartilage is an interval occupied by the thyrohyoid membrane, and bounded above by the hyoid bone. The body and cornua of the hyoid can plainly be felt from the surface. In the usual attitude of the head the hyoid bone will be observed to be placed on a level with the lower margin of the inferior maxilla. Above the hyoid bone, between it and the symphysis of the lower jaw, is the anterior part of the floor of the mouth. Superficial Dissection of the Side of the Neck. _I„ the first instance merely the structures super- ficial to the deep cervical fascia should be deserted. A good-sized block being placed under the shoulders of fhe subject, the head is pulled backwards an the chin dragged over to the opposite side. The parts Si be pit still further on the stretch if the shoulder be depressed by drawing the arm downwards and then fixing it in this position. The parts exposed in this dissection are :- (i.) Superficial fascia. (2 ) Platysma myoides. (O Superficial branches of the cervical plexus. (4 ) Infra-maxillary division of facial nerve. (5.) Anterior jugular vein. (6.) External jugular vein. Reflection of the Skin.-(P1. II. and IV ) Three incisions are required, viz.-OO a vertica incision "the middle line of the neck, from the chin aboveSIDE OF THE NECK. IOI to the sternum below ; (2.) a transverse cut from the lower end of the mesial incision outwards along the line of the clavicle to the acromion process of the scapula; (3.) an oblique incision, beginning above at the mastoid process behind the ear, and carried downwards and forwards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, until it meets the middle line of the neck at the top of the sternum. Two triangular flaps of skin, corresponding in a measure to the two triangular areas of the neck, are thus mapped out, and must now be carefully raised. Throw the anterior flap upwards towards the lower jaw, and turn the posterior flap backwards towards the trapezius muscle. Superficial Fascia.—The superficial fascia in this region contains in its midst the platysma myoides muscle—the representative in the human subject of the panniculus carnosus in the lower animals. In the male, the adipose tissue which distinguishes the superficial fascia is generally very sparse in this locality, so that the fleshy fibres of the muscle are observed shining through it. In females and children the fat is more abundant, giving a fuller and more rounded appearance to the neck. In all cases the fatty tissue is most plentiful between the chin and hyoid bone, forming in stout individuals the so-called " double-chin." Platysma Myoides—The fibres of this muscle, which run upwards and forwards, must now be cleanedI02 HEAD AND NECK. and its borders denned. In clearing the fatty tissue from its surfaee, minute nervous filaments wdl be observed piercing it to reach the skin. These arc chiefly branches of the superficial cervical nerve As the muscle extends downwards on to the front of_the chest and upper part of the shoulder,>,canno: b=f»Uy studied until the dissector of the arm has reflected the skin from these regions . The platysma myoides is an exceeun b y ^ HlLaf sheet of muscular fibres, which clothes h side and front of the neck, and hes superficial to the deep fascia. Below, it takes origin by scattered and sparse fibres from the fascia covering the upper por- tfon of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. 7Z this it proceeds upwards and forwards over the Licle and acromion, but obtains little orno a£*- ment to these bones. On the S1de of the neck decreases somewhat in width, and its fibres bemg A m0re closely aggregated, it becomes thicker and m re ■ distinct. Finally, it reaches the lower jaw andI gams a threefold insertion in the following manner f, fthe anterior fibres decussate below the chin with (.I.J tne an opposite muscle, and ^ ZZt^Z^L, ofthe chin ; (,) the lasse er muscle, although some may curve forwards Ts the angle of the mouth to assist in the forma- Tn of t"lmusc,e ; (,)the intermediate fibres Tassoverthebaseofthelower jaw.and areinserted mtoIO3 SIDE OF THE NECK. the skin and fascia along this line, many of the fibres mixing with those of the depressor anguli oris. When the platysma is strongly developed, the intermediate fibres are attached to the lower jaw itself. Reflection of the Platysma.—This must be done very-carefully, so as not to injure the structures which lie between it and the deep fascia. These are (1.) the external and internal jugular veins ; (2.) the descend- ing superficial branches of the cervical plexus, which are especially liable to injury as they cross the clavicle and acromion process, and (3.) the superficial cervical nerve and infra-maxillary division of the facial nerve. The muscle should be raised from below upwards, and left attached by its facial connections. The External Jugular Vein—Fig. 16 (10)—is usually a vein of some size. It will be seen emerg- ing from the substance of the parotid gland imme- diately behind the angle of the lower jaw, where it is formed by the junction of the posterior auricular vein, and posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. From this it descends in a nearly vertical direction upon the deep cervical fascia, taking a course which may be mapped out on the surface with tolerable accuracy, by drawing a line from a point behind the angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. It crosses the sterno-mastoid very obliquely, and reach- ing the posterior margin of this muscle, disappears from view by dipping through the deep cervical fascia immediately above the clavicle. It will subsequently be traced to its termination in the subclavian vein.ID4 HEAD AND NECK. Shortly after its origin, it effects, as a general rule, a communication with the internal jugular vein, and lower down one or more superficial twigs may connect it with the anterior jugular. Half-way down the neck it is joined by a tributary of some size which comes from the occipital region and the back of the upper part of the neck ; this vein is termed the posterior external jugular. Anterior Jugular Vein—Fig. 16 (23). — The anterior jugular vein should next be followed out. It is small in comparison with the preceding; some- times, however, it exceeds it in calibre-the size of the one very much depending upon that of the other It begins by the confluence of some minute veins in the sub-maxillary region, and then descends vertically at a short distance from the mesial plane. Immediately above the inner end of the clavicle it will be observed to dip through the deep cervical fascia. It terminates by turning abruptly outwards under cover of both heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle and opening into the external jugular or subclavian vein. After it has pierced he fascia, a short transverse branch which crosses the mesial plane connects it with its fellow of the opposite side {vide Fig. 24, p. 168). Superficial Branches of the Cervical H*™*-- These all take origin from the second, third, and fourth cervical nerves, and emerging from under cover of the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid about its middle, pierce the deep fascia, and arranger ig. 10. Superficial nerves on the side of the neck and back of the scalp. (9) Great auricular. (1) Attollens aurein. (2) Posterior belly of occipito-fron- (3) Retrahens aurem. [talis (4) Great occipital. (5) Great auricular. (6) Splenius. (7) ~ Sterno-inastoid. ' (8) Small occipital (present as two branches). (10) External jugular vein. (11) Superficial cervical. (12) Spinal accessory. (13) Descending branches of cervical plexus. (14) Cervical branches to trapezius. (10) Trapezius. (16) Supra-clavicular branches. (Hirschfeld and Leveille). (17) Supra-acromial branches. (18) Auricular twigs of great auri- (19) Parotid gland. [cular. (20) Facial nerve. (21) Masseter. (22) lnfra-maxillary nerve. (23) Anterior jugular vein. (21) Supra-sternal branches. (20) l'latysma.I06 HEAD AND NECK. themselves into ascending, transverse and descending branches. The ascending branches are two in number, and both have already been examined in the superficial dissection of the back of the neck (p. 45)- They are 0) the small occipital--Fig, 16 (8),—springing from the second cervical nerve, and (b) the great auricular —Fig. 16 (9)—which takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves. The transverse branches proceed from a single nerve called the superficial cervical nerve—Fig. 16 (i i). This arises from the second and third cervical nerves, and winding round the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid about its middle, proceeds transversely for- wards upon the deep fascia to reach the area over the anterior triangle of the neck. Here it divides into two branches, of which one inclines upwards and the other downwards. The upper branch communicates freely with the infra-maxillary division of the portio dura, and, piercing the platysma, supplies the skin as high as the base of the lower jaw. The lower branch also perforates the platysma, and its filaments may be traced as low as the sternum. The descending branches take origin by a single large trunk from the third and fourth cervical nerves. This emerges from under the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and soon breaks up into several twigs, which pierce the deep fascia and spread out widely from each other as they descend over the lower part of the posterior triangle, under cover of the platysma. The ultimate distribution of these twigs, however, is107 SIDE OF THE NECK. not so much the skin of the neck as the integument over the upper part of the front of the chest and over the shoulder. To gain this destination they are carried downwards over the clavicle and acromion process, and are classified into three groups according to their position—viz. (1.) supra-acromial; (2.) supra- clavicular ; (3.) supra-sternal—Fig. 16 (17, 16, 24). Infra-Maxillary Division of Facial Nerve- After emerging from the parotid gland this nerve pierces the deep fascia. It will be found immediately below the angle of the lower jaw. Its branches spread forwards and form a series of loops which extend as low down as the hyoid bone. It is the nerve of supply to the platysma muscle, and effects a free communica- tion with the upper branch of the superficial cervical nerve—Fig. 16 (22). Deep Cervical Fascia—Fig. 17.—The cervical fascia should now be cleaned, and its connections studied. It constitutes a continuous and strong aponeurotic envelope for the neck, very much in the same manner that the brachial aponeurosis invests the upper arm or the fascia lata the thigh. As in the case of these fasciae also, processes are given off from its deep surface which penetrate into the neck to form sheaths for the various structures enclosed within the general investment. Certain of these processes stretch across the mesial plane in the form of partitions or septa, which subdivide the neck into fascial compartments. Let us first examine the general envelope as.it is at present displayed, and then weio8 HEAD AND NECK. shall be in a position to study the more important septa and processes. The envelope formed by the deep cervical fascia is not equally developed in all subjects. In many cases, and more especially in females, it is thin and incon- spicuous. Neither is it of equal strength at all points. As it stretches over the triangles of the neck, it is distinctly stronger than where it covers either trapezius or sterno-mastoid. Its connections must be noted Fig. 17. . Diagrammatic representation of a transverse section through the neck at the level of the isthmus of the thyroid body to show the arrangement of the cervical fascia - (Treves). (T) Trachea. (c) Depressor muscles of the larynx and hyoid bone. (e) Prevertebral muscles. (g) Carotid artery and its sheath. (b) Sterno-mastoid. (/) Scalenus auticus. (d) Platysma. (ft) External jugular vein (a) Trapezius. (i) Deep muscles on back of neok. with care. Traced backwards, it splits, at the anterior border of the trapezius, into two lamellae to enclose109 SIDE OF THE NECK. this muscle. By these layers it is attached along the mesial plane posteriorly to the ligamentum nuchse. Follow it forwards : At the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid it again splits into two lamellae, which encase the muscle and re-unite at its anterior margin. From this it is prolonged over the anterior triangle to the middle line, and passes continuously over to the opposite side of the neck. In its passage, however, from one side to the other, it obtains a firm attachment to the hyoid bone. Now examine its connections at the upper and lower limits of the neck. Above it is attached along the whole length of the base of the lower jaw. Behind the angle of the jaw it is carried upwards upon the surface of the parotid gland, as the parotid fascia, to gain attachment to the lower margin of the zygoma— a connection which will be afterwards seen in the dissection of the face. Still farther backwards, it is fixed to the mastoid process, and to the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Its connections below are no less definite. It is attached to the anterior border of the clavicle, and to the top of the sternum. The latter attachment, how- ever, is of a somewhat" intricate character. As it is traced downwards between the two sterno-mastoid muscles, it will be found to split a short distance above the sternum into two layers. Of these, the superficial layer is the feeblest, and effects an attachment to the anterior border of the manubrium sterni, and to the inter-clavicular ligament. The deeper layer lies immediately in front of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-II0 HEAD AND NECK. thyroid muscles, and is fixed below to the posterior border of the manubrium sterni. Upon either side the two layers unite beyond the sternal head of origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the space between them contains (i.) a little areolo-fatty tissue ; (2.) the two anterior jugular veins for a very short part of their course; (3.) the cross branch of communication between the anterior jugular veins of opposite sides when this exists ; (4.) sometimes a lymphatic gland ; and (5.) the sternal heads of the sterno-mastoid muscles. Open into the space by dividing the anterior layer close to the sternum, and gauge its extent by means of the handle of the knife. The processes and partitions which proceed from the deep surface of the cervical fascia cannot in every case be displayed at the present stage of the dissection, but it is necessary that they should be described, in order that the student may be able to recognise them and appreciate their bearings as they are unfolded in the subsequent dissection of the neck. Those requiring special notice are :— (1.) The pre-tracheal fascia. (2.) The pre-vertebral fascia. (3.) The carotid sheath. (4.) The stylo-maxillary ligament. The pre-tracheal fascia is a partition, of no great strength, which springs from the deep aspect of the lamella clothing the deep surface of the sterno- mastoid. It passes right across the neck in front of the thyroid body and trachea, and behind the anteriorSIDE OF THE NECK. belly of the omo-hyoid, the sternothyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles. From its deep surface pro- cesses proceed which ensheath the thyroid body and trachea. Above, it is attached to the hyoid bone, whilst inferiorly it is prolonged downwards into the thorax in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck, and gains a loose attachment to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The pre-vertebral fascia is a partition more deeply placed, which also stretches across the neck. As its name implies, it lies upon the prevertebral muscles behind the pharynx and oesophagus. On either side it may be traced outwards behind the carotid artery and internal jugular vein to the scalene muscles, which it clothes. Here it comes into relation with the brachial nerves and subclavian artery, and upon these it is prolonged downwards behind the clavicle into the axillary space to form the sheath of the axillary vessels, and establish a connection with the costo-coracoid membrane. In an upward direction it can be traced to the base of the skull, to which it is attached, whilst below it passes continuously into the thorax upon the longus colli muscles and behind the gullet. The sheath of the common carotid artery is formed under cover of the sterno-mastoid. It also encloses, as we shall afterwards see, the internal jugular vein and vagus nerve. The prevertebral fascia in great part forms its posterior wall, whilst the pre-tracheal layer enters to a certain extent into its formation in front. Delicate septa, in its interior, separate it intoH2 HEAD AND NECK. three compartments—one for each of its three con- tents. The stylo-maxillary ligament is a strong process of the cervical fascia in the upper part of the neck, which passes from the angle and posterior margin of the lower jaw to the styloid process. It is firmly attached to these bones, and is so placed that it constitutes a firm fibrous partition between the sub- maxillary and parotid glands. It can readily be exposed at the present stage. Triangles of the Neck.-The sterno-mastoid muscle, as we have observed, divides the side of the neck into two triangular spaces-an anterior triangle placed in front of it, and a posterior triangle behind it This muscle, therefore, should be studied before proceeding further. Carefully clean its superficial surface, and define its attachments. Do not attempt, however, to raise it from subjacent structures in the meantime. Sterno-Mastoid.—The sterno-mastoid muscle takes its origin below by two heads-a sternal and a clavicular. The sternal head is rounded, and chiefly tendinous, and springs from the upper part of the anterior face of the manubrium sterni. The clavicular head is broad and fleshy, with only a few tendinous fibres intermixed, and it arises from the inner third of the upper surface of the shaft of the clavicle. A narrow interval separates these heads below, but at a higher level the sternal portion overlaps the clavicular, whilst half-way up the neck they both unite intoTRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 113 a fleshy mass which ascends to the mastoid process and occiput. Here the muscle expands somewhat. In front it is thick and tendinous, and is inserted into the fore part and outer surface of the mastoid process; behind, it is thin and aponeurotic, and is inserted into rather more than the outer half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. In the dissection of the back, this latter part of the muscle has been detached from the occiput. Posterior Triangle—The posterior triangle should be dissected first. For this purpose the shoulder must be depressed and the head pulled well over to the opposite side and supported upon a block. This interferes, of course, with the dissection of the axilla. It is necessary, therefore, that the dissectors of the head and neck, and of the upper limb, should arrange to work at different hours. Again, the lower part of the posterior triangle, and the upper part of the axilla, constitute a region of the highest importance to both dissectors, seeing that it is here the great blood- vessels and nerves leave the root of the neck and enter the arm. Arrangements, therefore, must be made for each to have an opportunity of studying these structures. But in this a difficulty arises. Four days are required to complete the dissection of the axilla, whilst two days are amply sufficient for the dissection of the superficial parts of the neck and the posterior triangle. It is not necessary, however, that the dissector of the head and neck should stop work. After he has displayed the parts in the space part 111. Iii4 HEAD AND NECK. as far as he can without dividing the clavicle, he may proceed with the dissection of the anterior triangle, and on the fourth day return to the posterior triangle Sup. constrictor Ant. belly of digastric _ Mylo-hyoic. \— Stylo-glossub — Hyo-glossus Stylo-hyoid Tost, belly of digastru Middle constric.toi _ Hyoid bone Thyro-hyoid Inferior constrictoi Ouio-byoid Sterno-mastOKl Sterno-hyou Lev. ang. seapulat Sterno-thyroid Trapezius Scalene muscles Omo-hyoid SHERIDAN DELEPINE (A Occipital triangle. B) Subclavian triangle. (C) Digastric tri.mgle. Fig. 18. Triangles of the neck. (/)) Carotid triangle (B Muscular triangle.115 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. and complete the work with the co-operation of the dissector of the arm. The posterior triangle is a long narrow triangular space placed between the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid and the anterior border of the trape- zius. Its upper part has already been displayed in the dissection of the posterior aspect of the neck, but it can only be studied in its entirety when the subject is placed upon its back. Remove the deep cervical fascia which still covers its lower portion, and gradually dissect out the various structures within its area. The trapezius which has been reflected should be restored as far as possible to its natural position and retained by means of a stitch. Study the space systematically under the following heads : (1.) cover- ings ; (2.) boundaries; (3.) contents ; and (4.) floor. The Coverings have already been reflected. They are the superficial and deep fasciae of the neck, and, in the lower part of the space, the platysma. Certain cutaneous nerves and the external jugular vein have also been noticed in the superficial fascia as it stretches across this area. Near the occiput is the small occipital nerve; near the clavicle are the supra- clavicular descending branches of the cervical plexus, and a very short portion of the external jugular vein. The Boundaries are in front, the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and behind, the anterior margin of the trapezius. The base which is below is formed by the middle third of the clavicle, whilst the apex which is above is formed by the meet-H6 HEAD AND NECK. ing of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius on the superior curved line of the occipital bone. These are the confines of the entire space, but when the deep cer- vical fascia is removed from its lower part the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid is brought into view. This is a narrow muscular band which enters the space at its postero-inferior angle, and proceeds upwards and forwards through it to disappear under cover of the sterno-mastoid * The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid subdivides the posterior triangular space into an upper portion called the occipital triangle, and a lower part termed the supra-clavicular or subclavian triangle. The occipital triangle is much the larger subdiv- ision It is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, behind by the trapezius, whilst its base is formed by the omo-hyoid. The supra-clavicular triangle is a very small space. It is limited above by the omo- hyoid, below by the clavicle, and in front by the sterno-mastoid. But it is well that the student should understand that the area thus circumscribed is of very variable extent. Indeed, in the natural position of parts, the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid as a rule passes forwards so close to the clavicle that a very small interval indeed * At this point it is well to warn the dissector that in cleaning the117 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. is left between them, and it is only after the fascial connections of the muscle have been divided that the triangle becomes well marked. Cases also occur in which the omo-hyoid takes partial or complete origin from the clavicle, and thus the space is still further reduced in size. Another condition which very materially affects the dimensions of the supra- clavicular triangle is the muscular development of the subject. The more powerful the neck, the wider are the attachments of the trapezius and sterno- mastoid to the clavicle, and the narrower in conse- quence is the triangle. In a few instances these muscles will be observed to meet on the clavicle, and thus obliterate the space altogether. This latter condition, however, is not necessarily associated with a specially high development of the muscles. Contents.—In the occipital triangle the contents have already been in a great measure examined (p. 48). They are:— (1.) The occipital artery in a very small part of its course, and only when the sterno-mastoid fails to meet the trapezius at the apex of the triangle. (2.) The spinal accessory nerve. (3.) The branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves which cross the space to supply the trapezius ^muscle. (4-) The superficial branches of the cervical plexus as they appear at the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid previous to piercing the deep fascia. (5-) Branches of supply to the levator anguli scapulae from the third and fourth cervical nerves.U8 HEAD AND NECK. (6.) Some of the deep cervical lymphatic glands termed the glandulse concatenatse which lie along the sterno-mastoid. (7.) The transversalis colli artery and vein, which cross the lower part of the space. (8.) The upper part of the brachial plexus of nerves. In the supra-clavicular space a great number of highly important structures are collected together within a very limited area. The great blood-vessels and nerves which pass from the neck to the upper limb traverse this space. Its contents are the following :— ( Subclavian. Arteries < Transversalis colli. I Supra-scapular. {External jugular. Supra-scapular. Transversalis colli. Subclavian. ( The trunks of the brachial plexus and their Nerves \ branches. Lymphatic glands. These structures lie deeply. They are usually embedded in soft fat, and covered by a very distinct layer of fascia, which is prolonged outwards over them from the outer border of the scalenus anticus, and it takes some time to expose them fully. Begin by dissecting out the transversalis colli and supra- scapular vessels. They will be found emerging from under cover of the sterno-mastoid, and passing out- wards across the space. The supra-scapular vessels119 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. lie behind the clavicle, whilst the transversalis colli artery and vein occupy a higher level. In cleaning the brachial nerves which come out between the scalenus anticus and medius, a point to be attended to is to be careful not to injure the nerve to the sub- clavius. It passes vertically downwards upon the anterior aspect of the brachial trunks, and must be secured before they are touched. When the dissector has reached the lowest trunk of the brachial plexus, he will encounter the subclavian artery, which must be thoroughly displayed, and the groove on the first rib on which it lies rendered evident by scraping it with the handle of the knife. By tracing the external jugular vein downwards, the subclavian vein will be found lying very deeply—indeed so deeply that it can hardly be said to lie within the space at all. The scalenus anticus muscle, with the phrenic nerve pass- ing downwards upon its anterior aspect, will also be observed. Both lie under cover of the sterno-mastoid, and they will be more fully studied afterwards. Subclavian Artery.—It is only the third part of the subclavian artery which is included in the supra- clavicular triangle. This portion of the vessel extends from the outer margin of the scalenus anticus to the outer border of the first rib. Here it enters the axilla and becomes the axillary artery. It takes a very oblique course ; at first it lies at a variable distance above the level of the clavicle, but as it runs from above downwards and outwards, it finally comes to lie behind the clavicle and the subclavius muscle.HEAD AND NECK. 120 It is this portion of the artery that the surgeon selects, when the choice lies in his own hands, as the seat for applying a ligature. Its relations, therefore, must be studied with more than usual care. In front of the vessel are the coverings of the space in which it lies—viz., superficial fascia, platysma, superficial descending supra-clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, and the deep cervical fascia. Towards its termination, however, as we have seen, it passes behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle, and here also it is crossed by the supra-scapular artery. But perhaps the most important anterior relation, and one which, in tying the vessel, may somewhat embarrass the surgeon, is that established by the external jugular vein and certain of its tributaries. This vein crosses in front of the artery close to the scalenus anticus, and whilst occupying this position, two, or it may be three, tributaries join it-viz., the transver- salis colli, the supra-scapular, and the anterior jugular veins. Observe further that the small nerve to the subclavius is carried vertically downwards in front of the artery. Below, the third part of the subclavian artery rests upon the first rib ; at* higher level and also emerging from under cover of the scalenus anticus, are the brachial nerves. Behind, the vessel is in contact with the scalenus medius, although the lowest brachial nervous trunk may intervene between the muscle and the artery. The subclavian vein is placed at a lower level than the artery and on a plane slightly anterior to it.TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 121 Although, as a rule, no branch springs from this portion of the subclavian, it is not uncommon to find the posterior scapular artery taking direct origin from its upper surface. Surgical Anatomy.—The dissector should again examine the relations of the subclavian artery, with the view of determin- ing those which would constitute the most trustworthy guides in cases where it is necessary to apply a ligature to its third part. He should note that the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid will give no information beyond that of the depth at which the operator has arrived. The true guide is the older border of the scalenus anticus muscle. This, as a rule, lies immediately behind the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid. By passing the forefinger downwards along the outer margin of the scalenus anticus, the scalene ttcbercle on the first rib will be reached. When the finger-nail rests on this tubercle the finger-pulp is applied to the artery, and in the living subject will feel its pulsations. Supra-scapular and Transversalis Colli Ar- teries. — Both of these arteries will be observed emerging from under cover of the outer border of the sterno-mastoid. Their origin from the thyroid axis will be seen in a subsequent dissection. The supra-scapular artery proceeds outwards under shelter of the clavicle and across the third part of sub- clavian artery and the brachial nerves. At the outer limit of the supra-clavicular triangle it passes under cover of the trapezius to reach the superior border of the scapula where it has already been examined (p. 51). The transversalis colli is placed at a higher level, and is carried outwards across the posterior triangle. It passes under cover of the posterior belly of the omo- hyoid and, as a rule, superficial to the brachial nerves. 1122 HEAD AND NECK. It has already been observed to end under cover of the anterior margin of the trapezius, by dividing into the posterior scapular and the superficial cervical arteries (p. 51). Veins.—The arrangement of the veins has been noticed in studying the relations of the subclavian artery. The external jugular vein crosses the third part of this artery and joins the subclavian vein. It is joined close to its termination by the supra-scapular and transversalis colli veins, and perhaps by the anterior jugular as it emerges from under cover of the sterno-mastoid. In many cases, however, the anterior jugular joins the subclavian vein directly. Floor of the Posterior Triangle.—The floor of the posterior triangular space is formed by a succes- sion of muscles, and at its very lowest part by a small portion of the first rib. In the occipital sub-division the dissector will observe that the floor is constituted from above downwards by—(1.) the splenius capitis; (2.) the levator anguli scapulae; and (3.) by the scalenus medius and posticus. At the apex of the triangle an additional factor may sometimes be observed—viz., a small portion of the complexus. In the supra-clavicular triangle the floor lies very deeply. It is formed by the scalenus medius and posticus, and a portion of the first rib. Section of the Clavicle.—In order that a satis- factory view be obtained of the nerves forming the brachial plexus, it is necessary to remove the middle123 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. third of the clavicle. This, of course, can only be done when the dissector of the upper limb has com- pleted the dissection of the axilla. Saw through the clavicle at two points—viz., at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior margin of the trapezius—and remove the intermediate piece of bone, after having carefully detached it from the subclavius. The nerve to the subclavius should now be traced to its distribution, and dividing the fibres of the subclavius which still adhere to the acromial third of the clavicle, throw the muscle inwards and allow the shoulder to drop well backwards. Brachial Plexus.—This great nervous plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the four lower cervical nerves and the greater part of the large anterior primary division of the first dorsal nerve. . Above, the plexus is further reinforced by a small twig of communication which passes from the fourth to the fifth cervical nerve, whilst below, a similar connecting twig not infrequently passes upwards in front of the neck of the second rib from the second to the first dorsal nerve. These great nerves emerge from the interval between the scalenus anticus and medius, and proceed downwards and outwards through the lower part of the posterior triangle towards the axilla. The manner in which they unite to form the plexus is very constant. The fifth and sixth nerves unite to form an upper trunk; the seventh nerve remains single and proceeds downwards as a middle trunk; whilst the seventh cervical and first dorsal124 HEAD AND NECK. nerves join close to the intervertebral foramina to Diagram of (CV. CVI, CVII, CVIII) The four anterior take part in its formation. (DJ) and (DTI) The anterior primary divi- sions of the first two dorsal nerves. (cc) Communicating twig from the fourth cervical nerve, (r) Nerve to rhomboids. (ts) Supra-scapular nerve, (jc) Nerve to Bubelavius. (er) External respiratory nerve, or nerve of Bell. e.a.t) External anterior thoracic nerve. (n»c) Musculocutaneous nerve. FlG. 19. the brachial plexus. primary divisions of the cervical spinal nerves which (m) (i,a.t) (l.i.c.) Median nerve. Internal anterior thoracic nerve. Lesser internal cutaneous nerve, or the nerve of Wrisberg. (i.e. ft) Intercosto-humeral nerve, (ic) Internal cutaneous nerve, (u) Ulnar nerve («.*.«) The three subscapular nerves. (c) Circumflex nerve, (m*) Musculo-spiral nerve.125 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. constitute a third or lower trunk. In the form of these three trunks the plexus passes behind the clavicle and enters the axilla. Here each trunk at once splits into an anterior and a posterior division. Raise the three anterior divisions on the handle of the knife, and then it will be seen that all the three posterior divisions unite to form the posterior cord of the plexus, and, further, that the innermost of these divisions is much smaller than the other two. Of the three anterior divisions the two outer join to con- stitute the outer cord, whilst the innermost is carried down by itself as the inner cord of the plexus. From the three cords of the brachial plexus are given off the branches which supply the upper limb. From the above description it will be seen that the plexus, from changes which are effected in the arrangement of its fibres, may be divided into four stages :— 1st Stage. 2nd Stage. 3rd Stage. 4th Stage. 5 separate nerves (viz., 4 lower cervical and first dorsal). 3 nervous trunks (viz., an upper, middle, and lower). 3 anterior divisions and 3 posterior divisions. 3 nervous cords (viz., an outer, inner, and a posterior). The two first of these stages are generally observed in the lower part of the posterior triangle, and the two last behind the clavicle and upper part of the axilla. It must be understood, however, that the points at126 HEAD AND NECK. which division and union of the different parts of the plexus takes place, are subject to variation * Supra-clavicular Branches of the Brachial Plexus.—The only branches of the brachial plexus which fall to the lot of the dissector of the head and neck, are those given off above the level of the clavicle. These are for the most part destined for the supply of muscles in the neighbourhood. They are :— (i.) Nerve to rhomboids, from 5th cervical nerve. (2.) Nerve to subclavius, x (3.) Supra-scapular, (from Sth and 6th cervical (4.) External respiratory j nerves. nerve of Bell, / (5.) Twigs to scalene | ^ cervical neryes muscles and V before they unite. longus colli, / (6.) Communicating twig ) ^ to phrenic nerve, J The nerve to the rhomboids is a long slender nerve which springs from the fifth cervical as it lies upon scalenus medius. Draw the fifth cervical nerve for- wards, and it will be seen passing backwards through the fibres of this muscle to reach the deep surface of * Variations in the arrangement of the different parts of the plexus are not often met with, and what at first sight very often appears to be a variation in this respect, can generally be referred with a little study to the normal type. Perhaps the most common deviation is found in the transition from the third to the fourth stage. Here occasionally we see the two inner of the anterior divisions uniting to form the inner cord, whilst the outermost anterior division is carried downwards as the outer cord. Sometimes also the inner anterior division may be observed split into two parts to give passage to the axillary artery.127 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. the levator anguli scapulae. It here meets the posterior scapular artery, and proceeds with it downwards under cover of the rhomboid muscles close to the base of the scapula. It supplies one or two twigs to the levator anguli scapulae, and is finally exhausted in the rhomboids. The nerve to the subclavhis is a minute twig which springs from the upper trunk of the plexus, and then passes vertically downwards upon the plexus, and across the subclavian artery to the subclavius muscle, which it reaches by piercing the posterior lamina of its sheath. A communication between the nerve to the subclavius and the phrenic is by no means uncommon. This connecting filament may join the phrenic in the neck, or it may even enter the chest for this purpose. In all probability, it represents that communicating twig (or at least a portion of it) which on other •occasions passes directly from the fifth cervical nerve to the phrenic. The supra-scapular nerve is the largest branch given off above the clavicle. It springs from the upper trunk and runs downwards, outwards, and backwards, at a higher level than the brachial nerves, to the supra-scapular notch of the scapula, through which it enters the supra-spinous fossa. As it approaches the scapula it passes under cover of the tra- pezius and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and comes into relation with the artery of the same name. The external respiratory nerve of Bell, also called the posterior thoracic, is formed in the midst of the128 HEAD AND NECK. saclenus medius by the union of two roots which proceed from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves respectively. Emerging from the substance of the scalenus medius, it is carried downwards behind the plexus and the first part of the axillary artery. It is devoted entirely to the supply of the serratus magnus. Removal of the Arm.—At this stage, the dissector of the upper limb removes the arm from the trunk. The dissector of the head and neck must see that the vessels and nerves are not cut too short. The lower border of the first rib is the level at which they should be divided. Anterior Triangle.—Let the head hang well over the end of the table, and, raising the lower jaw as much as possible, fix it in this position by means of hooks. Begin the dissection by throwing the super- ficial cervical and infra-maxillary nerves backwards and then carefully raise the cervical fascia from the area in front of the sterno-mastoid. The anterior triangle is now exposed. Before proceeding further, however, let the student recall the structures which he has removed to display this space. He has reflected the skin, the superficial fascia, the platysma, and the deep cervical fascia, whilst between the two last he has followed the ramifications of the superficial cervical and infra-maxillary nerves, and traced down- wards the anterior jugular vein. These parts therefore constitute the coverings of the triangle.TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 129 Boundaries and Sub-Divisions.—The anterior triangle differs from the posterior triangle in having its base above and its apex below. Behind it is bounded by the anterior margin of the sterno- mastoid ; in front by the middle line of the neck. Its base is formed by the body of the lower jaw, and a line drawn from the angle of the inferior maxilla to the sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst its dependent apex is constituted by the meeting of its anterior and posterior limits at the upper border of the sternum. The space thus mapped out, however, is sub-divided into three smaller triangles, by three muscles which traverse it in different directions. These muscles are:—(1.) the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid; (2.) the digastric ; and (3.) the stylo-hyoid. It is well, therefore, at this stage to define these muscles, and accurately determine the precise position and extent of each sub-division of the space. In the first instance, merely clean the superficial surface of the muscles. In the case of the omo-hyoid, be careful not to injure the twigs from the descendens noni nerve, which enter its upper border, and, whilst dealing with the digastric, bear in mind that the facial vein, and the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein, usually descend superficial to its posterior belly, and must be dissected out before the muscle is touched. The filaments from the mylo-hyoid nerve, which enter the upper border of its anterior belly, are not liable to injury if ordinary caution be exercised. The anterior belly of the omo-hyoid appears by emerging from under cover of the anterior border of PART III. K! 30 HEAD AND NECK. the sterno-mastoid, a short distance above its sternal origin. It crosses the space very obliquely, running upwards and forwards to the body of the hyoid bone. The digastric, as its name implies, is a two-bellied muscle. The posterior belly comes out from under cover of the sterno-mastoid, close to the mastoid process and behind the lower part of the parotid gland. It proceeds downwards and forwards to the hyoid bone, and there the intermediate tendon is developed. The anterior belly is directed upwards and forwards to the symphysis of the lower jaw. The intermediate tendon is bound down to the hyoid by a process of deep fascia, and in cleaning the muscle care must be taken not to detach this. The stylo- hyoid muscle lies in relation to the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric, and is pierced by the digastric tendon at the hyoid bone. Distinctive terms are applied to the three subsidiary triangles which are thus mapped out within the area of the anterior triangular space. The lowest is termed the lower ox muscular triangle; the intermediate triangle receives the name of carotid, whilst the highest is called the sub-maxillary or digastric triangle (Fig. 20). The muscular triangle is bounded in front by the middle line of the neck, and behind by the sterno- mastoid. Its base is above, and formed by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, whilst its apex is below at the upper margin of the sternum. The carotid triangle is limited above by the posterior belly of the digastric, and below by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Its base is directed backwards and formedTRIANGLES OF THE NECK. by the sterno-mastoid, whilst its apex is at the hyoid bone. The digastric triangle is bounded below and behind by the posterior belly of the digastric and the . constrictor of digastric Mylo-hyoid itylo-glossus *lHyo-glossus '-Stylo-hyoid I of digastric . constrictor H Hyoid bone Thyro-byoid . constrictor I Omo-byoid :rao-mastoid 'Tterno-hyoid |Ug. scapulae hrno-thyroid Trapezius ane muscles Omo-hyoid SHERIDAN DELEPINE Fig. 20. Triangle of the neck. (A) Occipital triangle. it!) Subclavian triangle. (C'j Digastric triangle. (I)) Carotid Iriangle. (B) .Muscular triangle.I32 HEAD AND NECK. stylo-hyoid, and below and in front by the anterior belly of the digastric. Its base is above and consti- tuted by the body of the lower-jaw, and a line drawn backwards from the angle of the jaw to the sterno- mastoid; its apex points downwards, and is formed by the intermediate tendon of the digastric. Contents of the Anterior Triangle. - The numerous and diverse structures contained within the anterior triangle must now be displayed. This is a dissection which requires care and some preliminary knowledge of the parts to be exposed. The student is therefore advised to read the following general account before undertaking the work. The dissection should be carried out over the entire area at once and the structures found in one sub-division followed upwards and downwards, as the case may be, into the other sub-divisions of the space. It is a common fault with dissectors to fail to open up the digastric triangle until the two lower triangles have been ful y dissected. Two small nerves are especially liable to injury, and therefore should be secured as early as possible They are the thyro-hyoid branch of the hypo- glossal and the external laryngeal nerve. The hypo- glossal nerve, which will be found crossing the carotid triangle along the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric, should be traced forwards; as it approaches the hyoid bone, its minute thyro-hymd branch will be discovered. To expose the external laryngeal nerve all that is necessary is to separate the omohyoid from the sterno-hyoid muscle wherethese he133 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. upon the ala of the thyroid cartilage. In the interval between them the external laryngeal nerve and the crico-thyroid artery will be seen running forwards along the oblique line on the thyroid cartilage. In some cases it lies superficial to the sterno-thyroid muscle; more frequently, however, it is placed under cover of it. Contents of the Lower or Muscular Triangle. —In this triangle will be found the following structures:— (1.) The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. (2.) The branches from the ansa hypoglossi to these muscles. (3.) The external laryngeal nerve. (4.) The superior thyroid artery. (5.) The greater part of the larynx, the thyroid body and the trachea. (6.)|The oesophagus on the left side. (7.) The recurrent laryngeal nerve. When the fascia is removed from this part of the anterior triangle, the only structures which come into view within its limits are the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. It is for this reason that the term muscular is applied to the space. As the dissection is proceeded with, however, the large nerve of supply for these muscles, which comes from the ansa hypo- glossi, will be found lying near the outer border of the sterno-thyroid and breaking up into numerous twigs. Towards the upper part of the space will be noticed the superior thyroid artery passing downwards under cover of the omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles to reach the thyroid body. At! 34 HEAD AND NECK. a slightly higher level than this artery, and accompany- ing its crico-thyroid branch, the external laryngeal nerve runs forwards to end in the crico-thyroid muscle. Under cover of the sternp-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles will be observed the larynx, the isthmus, and a considerable part of the lateral lobe of the thyroid body and the trachea. The recurrent laryngeal lies deeply. It will be found in the interval between the gullet and trachea. As the ceosophagus inclines to the left behind the trachea, it follows that it is only seen to any extent in the left muscular triangle * Contents of the Carotid Triangle. - Within this sub-division are the following structures :— (i.) Common carotid dividing into external ( and internal carotid arteries. (2.) Superior thyroid. \ Branches of (3.) Lingual. f the (4.) Facial. / external Arteries / (5-) Occipital. } carotid * (6.) Ascending pharyngeal/ (7.) Hyoid. 1 Branches of the (8.) Sterno-mastoid. > erior thyroid (9.) Superior laryngeal. ; V(io.) Sterno-mastoid branch of the occipital. * This sub-division of the anterior triangle is very frequently termed the InZL carotid triangle, and the common carotid artery, the internal he injaior c s as structures lying Wlthln contents of anatomical spaces a certain 1U Tt of latitudet generally allowed-objects are placed within amount of latitud s is g 7 separated by dissection, were them winch before altogether outsuie This . rend- J . ft ^ be & t e6of th ^mean^of anlmical description to include the great vessels of T^"^s in the muscular triangle. They lie completely under cover of the sterno-mastoid.135 TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. Veins (1.) Internal jugular. (2.) Facial. (3.) Anterior temporo-maxillary. (4.) Lingual. (5.) Superior thyroid. Tributa- ries of the internal jugular. / ) Crossing the space in a (1.) Hypoglossal. transverse direction. (2.) Descendens noni. (3.) Nerve to thyro-hyoid. Nerves < (4.) Superior laryngeal. (5.) External laryngeal. (6.) Spinal accessory. Crossing the space obliquely. (l ^ Vasus ) {(&.) Sympathetic. / D<^ending vertically. Intercarotic body. Portion of the larynx and pharynx. Greater cornu of the hyoid bone. Lymphatic vessels and glands. This sub-division contains portions of each of the three carotid arteries. It therefore receives the name of carotid triangle. It is well, however, that the dissector should understand that it is only after the parts are relaxed by dissection that these vessels come to lie within the space. When the fascia and platysma are in position they are completely overlapped by the sterno-mastoid muscle. The common carotid artery is enveloped, along with the internal jugular vein and vagus nerve, in a common sheath of fascia. The carotid sheath should be slit open, care being taken of the descendens noni n^rve, which descends obliquely either in front of it or within it. Endeavour also to make out the connections of this sheath with the pre- tracheal and prevertebral layers of the fascia. In theHEAD AND NECK. 36 latter case there will be no difficulty, but the pretracheal layer can only be satis- factorily traced opposite the trachea. The common carotid usually bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Observe that the internal carotid artery, while within the triangle, lies behind, and to the outer side of the external carotid. Upon the coats of these vessels numer- FlG. 21. Deep aspect of carotid vessels, with the intercarotic body and the nerves in rela- tion to them.—(Luschka.) (1) Common carotid. (2) Internal carotid. (3) External carotid. (4) Superior thyroid. (5) Lingual. (6) Facial. (7) Occipital. (8) Superficial temporal. (9) Internal maxillary. (10) Vagus nerve. (11) Spinal accessory. (12) External portion of spinal accessory. (13) Internal part of spinal accessory joining the vagus. (14) Glosso-pharyngeal. (15) Branches to carotid plexus. (16) Pharyngeal branch of vagus. (17) Superior laryngeal branch of vagus (18) External laryngeal nerve. (20) Superior cervical ganglion. (21) Sympathetic cord. (22) Superior cardiac branch of sympathetic. (23) Sympathetic twigs to carotid plexus (24) Carotid plexu (25) Intercarotic body ous sympathetic twigs ramify (Fig. 21), and, at theTRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 137 point of bifurcation of the common carotid, a small oval body, termed the intercarotic body, will be found closely applied to the vessel, Fig. 21 (25). The branches of the external carotid which take origin in the area of this triangle run for only a very short part of their course within it. Three branches will be noticed springing from the anterior aspect of the external car- otid. These are from below upwards : (1.) the superior thyroid, which disappears under cover of the omo- hyoid after having given off its hyoid, superior laryngeal, and sterno-mastoid branches, and enters the muscular triangle; (2.) the lingual, which leaves the space by passing under cover of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles ; and (3.) the facial, which ascends under the same muscles to gain the digastric triangle. The occipital artery commonly springs from the posterior aspect of the external carotid, close to the lower border of the digastic, and soon quits the space by running upwards and backwards under the sterno-mastoid. Its sterno-mastoid branch comes off as it leaves the triangle, and accompanies the spinal accessory nerve. The ascending pharyngeal artery will be found by separating the external and internal carotid arteries from each other, and dissecting between them. It springs from the posterior aspect of the former about half-an-inch above its origin. The internal jugidar vein will be found lying close to the outer side of the common carotid artery, and included within the same fascial sheath. Its various tributaries which enter this space should be traced to it—a dissection which requires both care and patience. The nerves within the carotid triangle, as will be138 HEAD AND NECK. seen from the above list, are very numerous, but they can be classified according to the direction which they take through the space. One large nerve, the ninth cranial nerve or hypoglossal, takes a more or less trans- verse course across the upper part of the space close to the lower margin of the digastric muscle. Two descend vertically—viz., the vagus and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The vagus lies between and behind the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein, and in the same sheath of fascia; the sympathetic cord is placed behind the carotid sheath upon the prevertebral muscles. The remaining five nerves traverse the triangle obliquely ; four running from above downwards and forwards — viz., the descendens noni, the thyro-hyoid, the superior and external laryngeal; and one—the spinal accessory— from above downwards and backwards. The descendens noni springs from the hypoglossal, and descends either within or on the surface of the carotid sheath. It is joined at the upper border of the omo-hyoid by one or two branches from the cervical plexus, and in this manner the ansa hypoglossi is formed. The thyro- hyoid is a minute nerve which arises from the hypo- glossal farther forwards. The superior laryngeal nerve descends behind the carotid vessels. It will be readily found, with the corresponding artery, in the interval between the hyoid bone and upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It enters the larynx by piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane. The external laryngeal nerve, a branch of the preceding, is a much smaller twig. It leaves the space by passing under cover of the omo-hyoid, and in the muscular triangle it entersTRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 139 the crico-thyroid muscle. The spinal accessory nerve will be found high up between the digastric and the sterno-mastoid. It soon quits the triangle by sinking into the substance of the sterno-mastoid. The Digastric Triangle may be divided very con- veniently into an anterior and posterior part by the stylo-maxillary ligament and a line drawn downwards from it. The portion in front has a distinct floor, composed, in great part, by the mylo-hyoid, and behind this by the hyoglossus muscle. The contents of the space may be classified according to the sub- division in which they lie :— Anterior Part. Posterior Part. (1.) Submaxillary gland. (2.) Facial artery and vein. (3.) Branches ^ from fa- {a.) Ascending pala- cial art- tine. ery in \(&.) Tonsillitic. this part (c.) Submaxillary. of its {d.) Submental. course. J (4.) Hypoglossal nerve. (5.) Mylo-hyoid nerve. (6.) Mylo-hyoid artery. (7.) Lymphatic glands. (1.) Portion of the parotid gland. (2.) External caro- tid artery. (3.) Posterior aur- icular artery. The most conspicuous object in the fore-part of the digastric triangle is the submaxillary gland. The140 HEAD AND NECK. facial artery passes upwards and forwards in the midst of this gland, whilst the facial -vein lies superficial to it. But whilst the facial artery runs through the gland, the dissector should note that it can be separ- ated from it without any laceration of the gland- lobules. The gland is, as it were, wrapped round it, so that, although at first sight the artery seems to pierce it, it is merely contained in a deep furrow in its substance. Before entering the gland, the facial artery gives off its tonsillitic and palatine branches, whilst its submental and submaxillary branches arise within the gland. The submental artery runs forwards towards the chin. The mylo-hyoid nerve and artery will be seen passing forwards and downwards upon the mylo-hyoid muscle under cover of the submaxillary gland. The twigs of the nerve to the muscle of the same name and to the anterior belly of the digastric should be followed out. Only a very small part of the hypoglossal nerve is seen in this space. It lies upon the hyoglossus muscle immediately above the hyoid bone, and disappears under cover of the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Numerous small lymphatic glands lie under shelter of the base of the lower jaw. The external carotid artery enters the posterior part of the digastric triangle. Here it lies under cover of the lower part of the parotid gland, and gives off its pos- terior auricular branch, which passes upwards and back- wards along the upper border of the digastric muscle. Middle Line of the Neck.-Before the partsMIDDLE LINE OF THE NECK. 141 are further disturbed the dissector should examine the structures which occupy the middle line of the neck—a region, more especially in its lower part, of the highest importance and interest to the surgeon. It may be divided by means of the hyoid bone into an upper supra-hyoid and a lower infra-hyoidportion. In the supra-hyoid part are found structures which are concerned in the construction of the floor of the mouth. The student has already noticed that the fatty superficial fascia is more fully developed here than elsewhere in the neck, and that the anterior margins of the two platysma muscles meet in the mesial plane about half-an-inch or so below the chin. Above this point their fibres decussate. In the present condition of parts the two anterior bellies of the digastric muscles are observed attached to the lower jaw on either side of the symphysis. From this they descend towards the hyoid bone, diverging from each other slightly so as to leave a narrow triangular space between them. The floor of this space is formed by the anterior portions of the two mylo-hyoid muscles, whilst bisecting the triangle in the mesial plane is the fibrous raphe, into which these muscles are inserted. Not unfrequently the inner margins of the digastric muscles send decussating fibres across the interval between them. Examine, in the next place, the infra-hyoid part of the middle line of the neck. Below the hyoid bone is the thyro-hyoid membrane succeeded by the thyroid cartilage with its prominent pomum Adami. Then comes the tense crico - thyroid membraneI42 HEAD AND NECK. and the cricoid cartilage. Except along a narrow interval on either side of the mesial plane, these struc- tures are covered by two muscular strata—viz., a superficial layer formed by the sterno-hyoid and omo- hyoid, which lie on the same plane, and a deeper layer formed by the sterno-thyroid and its continuation upwards, the thyro-hyoid. In addition to these an elongated process of the thyroid gland not unfre- quently stretches upwards (usually upon the left side), under cover of the sterno-hyoid. If this be present, it will in all probability be observed to be attached to the hyoid bone by a narrow muscular band termed the leva- tor gtandtdat thyroidece. The divergent inner margins of the two small cricothyroid muscles as they extend upwards towards the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage will also be seen. Upon the crico-thyroid membrane, as it appears between these muscles, the small crico-thyroid artery runs transversely inwards. Below the cricoid cartilage the dissector comes upon the trachea, which extends downwards through the remaining portion of the middle line of the neck. As the tube descends it gradually recedes from the surface, so that at the upper margin of the sternum it lies very deeply. The length of this portion of the trachea varies with the position of the head. When the head is thrown as far back as possible, and the chin is raised, about two and three-quarter inches of the tube will be found between the cricoid and the sternum ; when, on the other hand, the head is held in its usual attitude, the length of the cervical part of the trachea will be diminished by about three-MIDDLE LINE OF THE NECK. 143 s quarters of an inch. These measurements, however, must be regarded as merely expressing the average. They necessarily vary in different individuals, and are much influenced by the configuration of the neck. The dissector must study very carefully the parts which lie superficial to the trachea in this portion of its course. In the first place, examine those structures which are in immediate contact with it. These are (1.) the isthmus of the thyroid body; (2.) the inferior thyroid veins ; (3.) at the root of the neck, the inno- minate artery and the left innominate vein ; (4.) the thymus body in young children ; and (5.) the occa- sional thyroidea ima artery. The isthmus of the thyroid is a thin band of gland substance which crosses the mesial plane upon the anterior aspect of the trachea. As a general rule it covers the second, third, and fourth tracheal rings, so that only one ring, is left exposed between its upper margin and the cricoid. Almost invariably a branch of the superior thyroid artery runs along the upper margin of the isthmus, whilst upon its anterior surface is placed a plexiform arrangement of small veins. The inferior thyroid veins are two in number, and of large size. They arise in a great measure from the venous plexus upon the isthmus, and then proceed downwards upon the front of the trachea, one upon either side of the mesial plane, and separated from each other by a narrow interval. An additional median vein, taking origin from the isthmus, may also exist. Close to the sternum the innominate artery will be observed lying upon the trachea, and slightly below the level of theI44 HEAD AND NECK. upper border of the bone the left innominate vein crosses it The thymus body in children of two years or under is always prolonged upwards for some distance into the neck in front of the trachea. The thyroidea tma is an occasional branch of the innominate artery When present it passes vertically upwards m front of the trachea to the isthmus of the thyroid gland. Examine, in the next place, the parts which sepa- rate the trachea, and those structures in immediate relation to its anterior aspect from the surface. The two anterior jugular veins, as they run downwards in the superficial fascia, one upon either side of the mesial plane, have been already noticed; ata* he two layers of the deep cervical fascia close to the uooer margin of the sternum, with the cross-branch conn cdng the two anterior jugular veins between hem Behind the fascial envelope of the neck come L two muscular strata formed by the sterno-hyoid and the sterno-thyroid muscles. The inner margms of the sterno-hyoid muscles are almost contiguous above and held together by the fascial sheathes which t lose them ; below, however, they diverge very ■ Hghtly. so as to expose, close to the sternum ti* mner margins of the sterno-thyroid separate Sttwl™: rcE o-rave:: the trachea is not covered bv any muscular structure. , „ * „ The surgical interest attached to the SZgif. of"TnS dependf upon the fact that it is in this ^ Z IOF^t s Sf pharyngotomy, .aryngo.omy, and tracheotomy are performed.MIDDLE LINE OF THE NECK. 145 In pharyngotomy, the pharynx may be opened either above the hyoid bone or in the thyro-hyoid interval. In the former case the operation is performed as a preliminary to the removal of the tongue; in the latter case it is undertaken with the view of gaining access to the epiglottis and the interior of the larynx. In laryngotomy, an opening is made into the larynx. A vertical mesial incision is made over the interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. The crico-thyroid membrane is thus exposed, and is divided transversely close to the upper margin of the cricoid cartilage. It is a very simple proceeding, and one which is attended with little or no danger if ordinary care be taken. The crico-thyroid membrane is divided trans- versely, and in its lower part, for two reasons—viz., (1.) to avoid injury to the crico-thyriod artery, which, although, as a general rule, of small size, and of no surgical importance, is sometimes large enough to give rise to awkward results if wounded ; and (2.) to place the opening as low down as possible. Tracheotomy is a more serious undertaking. The opening into the trachea may be made above or below the isthmus of the thyroid body. The high operation is generally preferred by the surgeon. Its advantages are very apparent : here the trachea lies near the surface, and no veins of any importance are met with. The only drawback consists in the small portion of trachea which intervenes between the isthmus and the cricoid cartilage. Still, this can be increased by pushing down the isthmus, which, within certain limits, can be easily dislodged in a downward direction. Many surgeons, indeed, consider that the wounding of the isthmus is a matter of comparatively slight importance. The fact, however, that a large branch of L superior thyroid artery is generally found in relation to its recPon" .° d °Perat°r hesitate before having pace Vntf C^S,.t0 thiS 6Xpedient f0r SaininS additional hiT' V ^M * iS frecluently ^cessary to combine the nigh operation of tracheotomy with that of laryngotomy-viz by cutting through the cricoid cartilage. * ' that thlZ 0i>emti°n iS a formidable undertaking. It is true Ms issLIa/rCate,r l6ngth °f tube t0 be °Perated uP°n 5 but difficult? f d6eply' and the SurSeon encounters many thf tractnr Z I ? reaChed' If thG disSector reflect uP°n tne structures which mtervene between this part of the trachea rAKi in. ^I46 ■ ' HEAD AND NECK. movements of the wmd-p.pe as the patient £JB afid In the child, the thymus mterposes an addit.ona this, combined with the more hm,ted space the ^ and great mobility of thetracherender the p^ , ^ . cases, a very senous «sP°-f^war^direction, so as to avoid trachea must be opened-""Wleft innominate vein, which The Depressor Muscles of the Larynx and Hvoid Bone.-These are a series of flat,. narrow Seles which He upon the trachea J**"* Thev are disposed in two strata—viz., £££*S * stlo,yoid, constrt^ a superficial layer; and the stemo-thyrotd and thyro hyoid a deep layer. two.bellied The ono-hyoid, as we have noted is muscle. The ^» ^ has and springing from the upper the posterior 5upTaoPf£ —ipital triangle of the necK, so * terminating and supra-clavicular portron, ^ under in the intermediate tendon. This tendo ^ cover of the sterno-masto.d mu« a£ ^ position by a strong process of 'a**^1 tQ the Lvical V^^JglX? The sternum and the nrst cu anterior border147 DEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF LARYNX. close to the outer side of the sterno-hyoid. In the anterior triangle, the omo-hyoid separates the carotid and the muscular sub-divisions. The sterno-hyoid arises from the posterior aspect of the inner end of the clavicle and the posterior sterno- clavicular ligament. Its origin, however, is very variable; thus, it may be shifted either inwards or outwards. In the former case, it springs fromTthe Body of the hyoid bone jf Thyro-hyoid membrane Thyroid cartilage Crico-thyroid membrane Cricoid cartilage Fig. 22. Hyoid bone and larynx.— (Gegenbaur.) back of the manubrium sterni and the ligament; in the latter case from the clavicle alone. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone, between the mesial plane and the insertion of the omo-hyoid. A short distance above the sternum, an oblique fibrous intersection frequently divides it into two portions. The sterno-thyroid lies under cover of the precedingI48 HEAD AND NECK. muscle, and is both broader and shorter. It springs from the posterior aspect of the manubrium sterm, and from the cartilage of the first rib. Diverging slichtly from its neighbour as it ascends, it is inserted into the oblique line on the outer face of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. An incomplete tendinous intersection may sometimes be noticed interrupting its muscular fibres. The thyro-hyoid lies on the same plane as tire sterno-hyoid ; indeed, it may be regarded as its continuation upwards. It takes origin from the oblique line on the thyroid ala, and is inserted into the lower border of the body and a part of the great cornu of the hyoid bone under cover of the sterno- hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles. Digastric and Stylo-Hyoid Muscles.-These muscles, as we have seen, limit the submaxdlary triangle inferiorly, and intervene between it and the carotid triangle. . The anterior belly of the digastric springs from an impression upon the base of the lower-jaw, close to the symphysis, whilst the posterior belly takes origin from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone under lover of the mastoid process and the trachelo- mastoid and sterno-mastoid muscle, Both bellies Converge as they proceed towards the upper border of hyoid bone, where they are joined by a strong round intermediate tendon. The posterior belly is he longer of the two, and is fusiform m shape ; the antertobelly is shorter and flatter, and descends m a149 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. more vertical direction. The intermediate tendon is bound down to the great cornu and the body of the hyoid bone by a strong aponeurotic band. The stylo-hyoid muscle is placed along the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric. It is a small muscular band which arises from the styloid process of the temporal bone not far from its base. It is generally inserted by means of two slips into the hyoid bone at the point where the great cornu joins the body. The intermediate tendon of the digastric passes forwards between the two slips of insertion of the stylo-hyoid. Hypoglossal Nerve.—The portion of this nerve which traverses the anterior triangle can be studied at this stage. It appears by emerging from under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric, and immediately turns forwards by hooking round the occipital artery. Near the upper border of the hyoid bone it disappears from the present dissection by passing under cover of the mylo'-hyoid muscle. But what are its relations in this part of its course ? As it runs forwards it crosses the external carotid and lingual arteries, and before passing from view under the mylo-hyoid it lies upon the hyoglossus ; observe, further, that it is crossed by the intermediate tendon of the digastric and the two slips of insertion of the stylo-hyoid. Two branches will be seen to arise from it in the anterior triangle, viz.:— (1.) The descendens noni. (2.) The thyro-hyoid.HEAD AND NECK. i5o The descendens noni nerve, as a rule, leaves the hypoglossal at the point where it turns round the Fig. 23. Diagram of the ansa hypoglossi. glossal; **n<>3, thecommu mean "on., IX. • 8 an<J w „oni 1 *, branch » ,hy,o.hy»,d 1 «, W*to g»° * id „d !ttmo.lhyroid occipital artery. It proceeds downwards and inward, so as to cross the common carotid artery veryANSA HYPOGLOSSI. obliquely. Sometimes it is enclosed within the carotid sheath, at other times it lies in front of it. Reaching the upper border of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, it ends by joining one or two slender branches which advance towards it from the second and third cervical nerves. These twigs are the rami commnnicantes noni^ and by their union with the descendens noni a looped plexiform arrangement is formed in front of the carotid sheath, which is called the ansa hypoglossi. From the convexity of this loop branches are given off which supply both bellies of the omo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The branches for the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid may proceed from the descendens noni before it reaches the communicantes noni. The filament for the posterior belly runs downwards and backwards along the lower border of the intermediate tendon, and between the two laminae of the fascial band which retains the tendon in position. The branch for the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles is a nerve which breaks up along their outer margins into a number of twigs for their supply. One small filament may sometimes be traced into the thorax, where it communicates with the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The thyro-hyoid nerve is a slender twig which comes off from the hypoglossal as it approaches the hyoid bone. It supplies the thyro-hyoid muscle.It)2 HEAD AND NECK. Sterno-Clavicular Articulation.—The dissector must now examine the sterno-clavicular joint, as the next step consists in the disarticulation of the clavicle and the reflection of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid. The structures which hold the two bones in position at this joint are the following :— j Anterior sterno-clavicular. Ligaments proper, j Posterior sterno-clavicular. ( Inter-clavicular. Accessory ligaments, j cost0-Clavicular or rhomboid. Inter-articular fibro-cartilage. To expose these ligaments, the origin of the pecto- ralis major, from the clavicle and the manubrium sterni, must be removed. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid is also, to a certain extent, in the way, but it is not advisable to divide this. Sterno - Clavicular Ligaments. — These are placed one in front and the other behind the joint, but they are not isolated sharply-defined bands. Above, they are united by their margins with the Inter-clavicular ligament, whilst below they run into each other so as to constitute in this manner a capsule for the joint. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament springs from the front of the inner end of the clavicle, and proceeds obliquely downwards and inwards to gain attachment to the anterior aspect of the manubrium sterni. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament has a corresponding position, and presents similar attachments on the posterior aspect of theSTERNOCLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. 153 joint. It is less strongly developed, however. By its posterior surface it generally gives origin to the sterno-hyoid muscle. These ligaments limit the movement of the inner end of the clavicle, backwards and forwards, upon the sternal facet. The Inter-Clavicular Ligament is a strong band which connects the inner ends of the two clavicles. It is firmly fixed to the upper edge of each bone, and as it passes across the middle line it dips into the notch on the upper margin of the sternum, and is, to a certain extent, attached to it. The Rhomboid Ligament is composed of short oblique fibres. It is placed behind the subclavius muscle, the remains of which must therefore be removed to expose its anterior surface ; at the same time the clavicle must be tilted upwards as high as possible. Below, the rhomboid ligament is attached to the cartilage of the first rib ; above, it is fixed to a rough depression upon the under surface of the inner end of the clavicle. The rhomboid ligament plays an important part in the mechanism of the joint, and adds greatly to its security. It checks excessive elevation of the shoulder, and restrains, within certain limits, both forward and backward movement of the clavicle. The Inter-Articular Fibro-Oartilage is the most important of all the agents concerned in maintainingI54 HEAD AND NECK. the apposition of the inner end of the elavicle with the sternum. To obtain a view of this structure the joint must be opened into ; indeed, .t ,s well o remove as far as possible all the Ugamen* Be*n by dividing the rhomboid ligament. To effect this the clavicle must be raised and the kmfe earned inwards between its inner end and the first co tal eartilage. Next remove the mter-clavicular and antfcr and posterior sternoclavicular laments It is difficult to get at the postenor stemo-clav-cuar ligament in the present condition of parts, but w, h a Uttle care the sterno-hyoid muscle may be d*dtad fl-om its surface, and its fibres divided Theclavicle Zld now be forcibly pulled outwards, when the nter-articular fibro-cartilage will become apparent. \tefitro-cartUage is a nearly circular memscus or plate interposed between the inner end of the clavicle and the sternal facet, and having its surfaces ac- utely moulded upon both. As a general rule > is thicker around its circumference than in the centre, where it is occasionally perforated- Note carefully its attachments. In removmg the capsule of Ae joint, the dissector must have noticed hat by I circumference it is closely attached to tins both J front and behind. Mm !t ™* the upper edge of the inner end of the clavicle , T, Z mucin is thinned and passes outwards S Z SS to gain attachment to the inner „a the cartilage of the first rib. 1 which the inter-articular meniscus play, is very apparent. Its function is twofold: (..) *STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION. 155 acts as a cushion, and thus lessens the shock of blows received upon the shoulder; (2.) it acts as a bond of union, and prevents the clavicle from being driven upwards upon the top of the sternum when force is applied to its outer end. Synovial Membranes.—The sterno-clavicular joint is provided with two synovial membranes, placed one upon either side of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. These are quite distinct from each other, except in cases where the fibro-cartilage is deficient in its centre. In this case the two synovial cavities communicate. A nerve-twig from the supra-sternal division of the descending superficial branches of the cervical plexus has been observed to enter the sterno-clavicular joint (Hepburn). Disarticulation of the Clavicle.—Complete the disarticulation of the clavicle by dividing the attach- ment of the fibro-cartilage to the first costal arch. By this step the meniscus is removed with the clavicle, and can therefore be more fully examined. Further, the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid can now be thrown forward, and the parts under cover of this muscle dissected. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid should not be interfered with until the subclavian and carotid vessels have been, studied. Root of the Neck. Certain structures at the root of the neck must now be displayed. These are :—I 56 HEAD AND NECK. (1.) The scalene muscles. (2.) The phrenic nerve. (3.) The subclavian vessels and their branches. (4.) The cervical pleura. (5.) The thoracic duct on the left side, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side. (6.) The lower part of the internal jugular vein. (7.) The vagus nerve. (8.) The lower part of the common carotid artery. (9.) The lower part of the cervical sympathetic. As the dissection is proceeded with, a large number of important structures will be observed grouped in relation to the scalenus anticus muscle. Thus it is crossed in front and from below upwards by (1.) the sub- clavian vein, which lies upon its insertion into the first rib; (2.) anterior jugular vein; (3.) the supra-scapular artery; (4.) the transversalis colli artery, and (5.) the omo-hyoid muscle, with the nerve to its posterior belly. Under cover of these, the phrenic nerve is carried down- wards upon its anterior aspect, whilst the thoracic duct on the left side, and the right lymphatic duct on the right side, lie for a short distance in front of it, near its inner margin. Both of these ducts open into the venous system at the angle of union between the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Behind the scalenus anticus the cervical pleura bulges upwards for a short distance into the neck, and at a higher level the sub- clavian artery and the brachial nerves are also in relation to its posterior surface. Close to its inner margin, are the thyroid axis, the vertebral arteiy and vein and somewhat overlapping it, the large internal157 ROOT OF THE NECK. jugular vein ; whilst ascending in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the rectus capitis anticus major, is the small ascending cervical artery. Between the scalenus anticus and the trachea will be found the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve and common carotid artery, the first part of the subclavian artery with its branches, and the sympathetic cord. This is a tedious dissection, on account of the numerous twigs which are given off by the sympathetic in this locality. Certain of these descend in relation to the first part of the subclavian artery, and must be carefully preserved. The middle cervical ganglion, as a general rule, rests upon the inferior thyroid artery, whilst the lowest ganglion in the neck is placed in the depression between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. Scalene Muscles.—These muscles constitute the fleshy mass which is seen extending from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the two upper costal arches. They are three in number, and are named, from their relative positions, anticus, medius, and posticus. The scalenus anticus is a well-defined muscle which is separated from the scalenus medius by the brachial nerves and the subclavian artery. It arises from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of four cervical vertebrae—viz., the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th,— and, tapering somewhat as it descends, is inserted into the scalene tubercle which marks the inner margin158 HEAD AND NECK. c « rtf the first rib between the two and upper surface of the nrst subclavian grooves^ than The 1S a m P , • flluprrles , ,w It springs from the posterior tubercles the preceding. It spring „rnrpsses (with the r 11 the cervical transverse processes <wit of all the ceniw f ^ cr^\ and it is inserted exception, in some cases, of the first), ani • f„ a rourfi oval elevation which marks the upp See oTthe first rib between tbe tubercle and tbe gro0ve for the vertebral artery. ^ ^ & The Llenus mediu, It is the distinct muscle from the sc lenu ^ ^ smallest of the three an^ ^ J monAing from the transverse processes number of the ^-^ rttupper border of the levator costae. , . AT+prV—The subclavian artery is Subclavian Artery, in the first subdivision of the great vesse1 w bl00d for the supply of the «PP ^ ^ ^ differently on the two ^^^^vicular ■j takes origin behma uic o • rion W the bifurcation of the innonuna e artIC On the left side it springs, within the cavrty artery. On tne ieji> & r tic 0f the thorax, from the transve se ^ -h. I" ^^J^SSfft.**-- wards across the root f h nec ^ ^ anticus musde and a ^ ^ ^ where SlSSl becomes the a.lUary artery.ROOT OF THE NECK. I $9 The relations of the subclavian artery are so numerous, and of so varied a character, at different parts of its extent, that it is found necessary to subdivide it into three portions, for convenience and accuracy of description. We take advantage of the scalenus anticus for this purpose. The first part extends from the origin of the vessel to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus ; the second portion is that part which lies behind this muscle; whilst the third part extends from the outer border of the scalenus anticus to the outer border of the first rib. First part.—Owing to the difference of origin, the relations presented by the first portion of the sub- clavian artery are not the same on both sides of the body. Let us ' examine, in the first instance, the vessel of the right side, and then compare it with that of the left side. The first part of the right sub- clavian extends obliquely upwards and outwards, and at its termination, at the inner margin of the scalene, it has reached a point above the level of the clavicle. It is placed very deeply. In front, it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, deep fascia, and three muscular strata—viz., the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, the sterno- hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid. Three veins and some nerves are also placed in front of it. Thus, it is crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, as these proceed from above downwards, whilst the anterior jugular vein, as it passes outwards under ■cover of the sterno-mastoid, is separated from it byHEAD AND NECK. i6o the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The nerves are the vagus, and one or two cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which cross it as they run towards the thorax. Note that as the vagus leaves the artery it gives off its recurrent branch. Next, examine the parts behind this portion of the vessel. It lies in front of the longus colli muscle, but not in contact with it. Intervening there is considerable quantity of fatty tissue, and in this the Fig. 24. Diagram of the subclavian artery (1) Innominate artery. (2) Common carotid artery. (3) Vertebral artery. (4) Thyroid axis. (5) Superior thyroid artery. (6) Transversalis colli. (7) Superficial cervical. (8) Posterior scapular. (9) Supra-scapular. (10) Superior intercostal. and its branches.—(Turner.) (11) Deep cervical. (12) Internal mammary. (13) Posterior scapular. (16) Ascending cervicuL (a) First rib. (6) Scalenus anticus. (c) Thyroid body. (d) Phrenic nerve. (e) Vagus nerve. (/) Kecurreut laryngeal. sympathetic cord proceeds downwards, and the re- current laryngeal nerve runs upwards behind the artery. The pleura likewise projects upwards be- hind it.ROOT OF THE NECK. l6l Below, the first part of the subclavian rests upon the pleura, whilst the recurrent laryngeal nerve hooks round it to gain its posterior aspect. Further, observe that the right innominate vein is formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins below, and upon a plane anterior to this part of the artery. On the left side, the first part of the subclavian ascends almost vertically from its origin from the aortic arch, and reaching the root of the neck, it turns outwards over the pleura to gain the inner margin of the scalenus anticus. It is only with that portion of the vessel which lies in the root of the neck that we are concerned at present. Its relations are not very different from those on the right side. The same fascial and muscular layers, and the same nerves and veins, lie in front of it. Owing to its different direction, however, the latter are placed more or less parallel to it. Three additional relations are nevertheless, established-viz., (i.) the phrenic nerve which descends in front of it; (2.) the left innomi- nate vein, which crosses it; and (3.) the thoracic duct, which passes upwards in relation to its inner side. On the other hand, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, which on this side hooks round the arch of the aorta, has no direct relationship to the subclavian artery. Second part.—The second portion of the subclavian artery forms the highest part or summit of the arch. 1 he height to which this rises above the clavicle is part in. Ml62 HEAD AND NECK. • ui * At this point the vessel is not so very variable* At^ . deeply placed. deep fascia . (2.) superficial fasaa an p y } ^ W clavicular head of h s ^ ^ fa enus anticus. The phrem ds in front also an anterior relation. It-Passesd° in . of the vessel, hut ^ the vessel of the scalenus-^™V^ subclavian vei„ lies been examined (p. 119)- A Four ,OQ nf the Subclavian Artery.-tour Branches 01 ou . , x this • fmm the subclavian trunk, m ui« branches spring from the s considerable respect, however, the vessel is subject t • f^n Thev all take origin, as a genera , variation, iney j- „ A-nm the first part of the second part. They are- • (l) Vertebral. Inferior thyroid. From the id axis. J TransversaUs coffi. first part, < W y (Supra-scapular. ((3.) Internal mammary. ^ intercostal From the ( . intercostal. \ Pr0Per' ( Deep cervical. r hranch of considerable In a great number of case, ton* ^ ^ • From half-an-incb to an mch above the-.to* ^ ^ a^age height to which^^^^W in others « is placed -JTSiKt -no above the clavicle a, a,163 ROOT OF THE NECK. size will be observed springing from the third part of the subclavian artery. This, in all probability, will be the posterior scapular arising directly from the sub- clavian. It is so common an occurrence, that the dissector must always be prepared to meet it. Vertebral Artery—This is the first branch which is given off by the subclavian. It springs from the upper and back part of the trunk about three-quarters of an inch from its commencement on the right side, and from the point where the vessel reaches the root of the neck on the left side. Only a small portion of its extent is seen in the present dissection. It pro- ceeds upwards in the interval between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus, and disappears by entering the vertebra-arterial foramen of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. It is placed very deeply. It is covered in front by its companion vein and the internal jugular vein, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery. Numerous large sympathetic twigs accompany it. In this respect, indeed, it is more richly endowed than any of the other subclavian branches. The vertebral artery on the left side has an addi- tional relation. It is crossed by the thoracic duct. The vertebral vein will be noticed issuing from the aperture in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and passing downwards in front of its companion artery, and behind the internal jugular vein, to open into the posterior aspect of the com- mencement of the innominate vein. Near its termina- tion it crosses the subclavian artery. It receives the deep cervical and the ascending cervical veins.!64 HEAD AND NECK. Thyroid Axis.—This is a short wide trunk, which arises from the front of the subclavian close to the inner margin of the scalenus anticus, and under cover of the internal jugular vein. It lies between the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves, and almost imme- diately breaks up into its three terminal branches- viz., the inferior thyroid, the supra-scapular, and the transversalis colli. The Inferior Thyroid Artery takes a sinuous course to reach the thyroid body. At first, it ascends for a short distance upon the vertebral artery, and under cover of the internal jugular vein ; then it turns suddenly downwards and inwards, crossing behind the sympathetic and carotid sheath ; and, lastly, it bends upwards, and ends in branches which enter the inferior aspect of the thyroid body. The following branches will be noticed arising from the inferior thyroid artery :— (i.) Ascending cervical. (2.) Inferior laryngeal. (3.) Tracheal. (4.) (Esophageal (5.) Thyroid. (6.) Muscular. The ascending cervical artery is a small but very constant vessel, which runs upwards in the interval between the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, and dispenses numerous twigs to the muscles in front of the vertebral column. These anastomose freely with corresponding branches of the vertebral artery. Other twigs from the ascending cervical, termed spinal branches, enter the spinal canal upon the spinal nerves, and have already been noticed in the dis- section of the spinal cord and its membranes (p. 95)-ROOT OF THE NECK. 165 The inferior laryngeal artery is a small vessel which accompanies the recurrent laryngeal nerve to the larynx. The tracheal and (Esophageal branches in like manner supply the trachea and gullet. They are of small size, and anastomose with the bronchial and oesophageal branches of the thoracic aorta. The thyroid or terminal branches inosculate freely with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, and also with the branches of the superior thyroid artery. The muscular branches are a series of irregular twigs given to the various muscles in the neighbourhood. The inferior thyroid vein does not run in company with the artery of the same name. It is a large vessel which comes from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and descends upon the trachea under cover of the sterno-thyroid muscle. The veins of both sides enter the thorax, and unite to open into the left innominate trunk, although, in some cases, the right vein may open separately into the angle of union between the two innominate veins Both vems receive, as they proceed down, tributaries from the larynx, trachea, and oesophagus. The small ascending cervical vein opens into the vertebral vein. The Supra-scapular and Transversalis Colli Arteries have already been examined in the greater part of their course (p. I2I). observe in the present dissection that after taking origin from the thyroid axis, they both pass outwards upon the scalenusX66 HEAD AND NECK. anticus, and under cover of the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid. The supra-scapular crosses the scalene muscle close to its insertion, immediately above the subclavian vein ; the transversahs colli is placed at a slightly higher level. Further, note that both vessels cross in front of the phrenic nerve. The supra-scapular and transversal* colli veins have already been seen joining the subclavian or external jugular vein. Internal Mammary Artery.-This artery springs from the lower aspect of the subclavian opposite the thyroid axis, and, like it, under cover of the internal jugular vein. It at once proceeds downwards upon the pleura and behind the inner end of the clavicle to reach the thoracic cavity. In the cervical part of its course it will be observed to pass behind the sub- clavian vein, and to be crossed from without inwards by the phrenic nerve. In the neck, the internal mam- mary artery is accompanied by no companion vein. Superior Intercostal Artery.-This branch takes origin from the posterior aspect of the second portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. On the left side, however, it as a rule proceeds from the first part of the parent trunk. To bring it into view the subclavian artery must be dislodged from its position. It will then be seen to be a short trunk which almost immediately divides into the deep cervical artery, and the superior intercostal artery proper. The deep cervical artery passes at once backwards,ROOT OF THE NECK. and disappears from view between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. It has been already noticed in the dissection of the back of the neck (p. 65). The superior intercostal artery turns downwards over the neck of the first rib, close to the outer side of the sympathetic cord, and ends in the thorax by giving branches to the upper two intercostal spaces. The deep cervical vein is a large vessel. It joins the vertebral vein. The Subclavian Vein is the continuation of the axillary vein into the root of the neck. It begins, therefore, at the outer border of the first rib, and arches inwards in front of the scalenus anticus muscle close to its insertion. At the inner margin of this muscle it joins the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. In connection with the subclavian vein, note: (1.) that the arch which it forms is not so pronounced as in the case of the corresponding artery; (2.) that throughout its whole course it lies at^ajJwer levd, and upon a plane anterior to the artery, and (3.) that itjs^separated fr^nTthe artery by the scalenus antic^i and the phrenic nerve. " The tributaries of the subclavian vein are (1.) the external jugular vein, and (2.) in some cases the anterior jugular vein. These join it at the outer margin of the scalenus anticus muscle.—(Fig. 24.) Thoracic and Right Lymphatic Ducts.-The thoracic duct is the vessel by means of which the lymph and chyle, derived from by far the greater part of thef •, f the neck The stemo-mastoid and the inner half of the clavicle have DissecUon ofs.de of the neck.. The ^^ ^^ (a) External jugular vein. (5) Temporal vein. (c) Posterior auricular vein. (d) Anterior teniporo-maxillary vein, (a) Facial vein. (/) Trunk formed by union of facial and anterior temporo-maxillary veins. (g) Transversalis colli vein. (h) Anterior jugular vein. (i) Communicating branch between an- terior jugular and facial veinB. (k) The part of the anterior jugular which turns horizontally outwards under cover of the sterno-mastoid. (I) Transverse communication between the two anterior jugular veins, (m) Deep cervical vein, (n) Mastoid emissary vein. (0) Internal jugular vein. (;>) Superior thyroid vein, (r) Spinal accessory nerve. (1) Ansa hypoglossvROOT OF THE NECK. body, is poured into the venous system on the left side. Its terminal or cervical portion is displayed in the present dissection. It is a small delicate vessel, frequently mistaken for a vein, which enters the root of the neck upon the left side of the oesophagus. It is here therefore that it should be sought. When it reaches the level of the seventh or perhaps the sixth cervical vertebra, it changes its course and arches outwards and downwards over the apex of the pleura, to gain the outer margin of the internal jugular vein at its angle of union with the subclavian, and into this it opens. Its relations are somewhat complicated. Thus, in coursing outwards, it is placed at a higher level than the subclavian artery, and passes behind the inferior thyroid artery and the internal jugular vein.- Further, it crosses in front of the vertebral artery, and its terminal part usually lies upon the scalenus anticus muscle. A valve composed of two segments guards its orifice into the jugular vein. This allows its contents to pass freely into the vein, but acts as a barrier to the regurgitation of venous blood into the duct. The right lymphatic duct is the corresponding vessel upon the right side. It is a very insignificant duct, and draws its supply of lymph from a much more restricted field. In length it rarely measures more than half-an-inch. It will be found at the inner margin of the scalenus anticus opening into the angle of union between the internal jugular and subclavian veins of the right side. As in the case of the thoracic duct, its orifice is guarded by a double valve.! 7q HEAD AND NECK. Cervical Pleura.—The pleural sac of each side, with the apex of the corresponding lung, projects upwards into the root of the neck, and the dissector should now examine the height to which it rises, and the connections which it establishes. Its height varies in different subjects. In some cases it extends up for two inches above the sternal end of the first rib; in others for not more than one inch. It forms a dome- like roof for each side of the thoracic cavity, and is strengthened by a fascial expansion (frequently termed Sibson's fascia) which covers it completely, and is attached on the one hand to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, and on the other to the inner margin of the first rib. Observe, further, that the cervical pleura is supported above by the scalene muscles, under cover of which it ascends into the neck, and that the subclavian artery arches over it Cervical Plexus-(Fig. 25).-This plexus is formed by the anterior primary divisions of the upper four cervical nerves. These nerves are much smaller than the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus, and they have only a short course to run as inde- pendent trunks. With the exception of the first, each divides into an ascending and a descending branch, and these joining with each other, constitute the plexus, which, therefore, consists of three loops. The descending branch of the fourth nerve proceeds downwards to unite with the fifth nerve, and thus establish a connection with the brachial plexus. The cervical plexus thus formed has very definiteCERVICAL PLEXUS. 171 relations. It lies under cover of the upper part of the sterno-mastoid and in front of the scalenus medius and levator anguli scapulae. Fig. 25. Diagram of the cervical plexus. The muscular twigs are represented in solid wute; the communicating by light-shading; and the cutaneous in outline. I., II.. III., IV.,-Anterior primary divisions of the four upper cervical nerves. («0 Superior cervical ganglion. (r) Branches to recti muscles. (tin) Branch to sterno-mastoid. (I) Branches to levator aiiguli scapulas. W Branches to scalenus medius. (tr) Branches to trapezius. (p) Threnic. (tc) Superficial cervical (»c) Descending superficial branches. (c) Communicating twigs to vagus and hypoglossal. (cri) Coininunicantes noni. (co) Communicating twig from fourth to fifth cervical nerve, (so) Small occipital. (ga) Great auricular.172 HEAD AND NECK. Its branches are very numerous, classified in the following manner :— ; Small occipital. Ascending. Superficial J Transverse and may be From 2nd. From 2nd & 3rd. Deep. Great auricular. Superficial cervical. ( Supra-clavicular. Descending. < Supra-sternal. i Supra-acromial. / (1.) To rectus capitis ^ anticus major. (2.) To rectus capitis anticus minor. (3.) To rectus capitis lateralis. (4.) To sterno-mas- toid. (5.) To levator anguli I Muscular. scapula?. (6.) To scalenus me- dius. (7.) To trapezius. 8.) Communicantes \ noni (to sterno- (jrom *nd hyoid, thyroid, ( & 3**- and omo-hyoid). ' (9.) Phrenic to dia-) From 4* \ phragm. ) & 5th- /(i.) To hypoglossal. ) From (2.) To vagus. J ist- \ From 1 st, To sympathetic. V 2nd, 3rd, J &4th- From 3rd & 4th. From 1 st & 2nd. From 2nd. From 3rd & 4*. \ Communicating. ^ From 2nd (4.) To spinal acces- I ^ sory. ■ & 4th.CERVICAL PLEXUS. 173 The superficial'branches'have already been examined, but now that the plexus is fully dissected, the student should again study their mode of origin. Muscular Branches.—The anterior recti muscles and the rectus lateralis receive twigs from the first loop of the plexus, but as this is placed very high up in the neck, these branches can only be satisfactorily displayed in the deep dissection of the neck. The sterno-mastoid muscle draws one or more twigs from the second cervical nerve, and by means of these a close communication is effected with the spinal accessory, which pierces, and at the same time supplies filaments to the muscle. The levator anguli scapula always receives two or three branches from the third and fourth nerves, whilst the scalenus medius obtains its nerve supply from the same nerve-trunks before these have entered the plexus. The branches to the trapezius come off in common with the trunk which divides into the descending superficial nerves, and are therefore derived from the third and fourth nerves. Upon the under surface of the trapezius, these branches unite with the spinal accessory, and form the sub-trapezialplexus for its supply. The communicantes noni perhaps should have been included in the group of communicating branches, seeing that they join with the descendens noni; but the fibres which compose them are destined for the supply of muscles. They are usually two in number, and spring from the second and third nerves respectively. From this they proceed downwards and inwards underHEAD AND NECK. cover of the sterno-mastoid, and either behind or in front of the internal jugular vein, to join the des- cended noni and form the ansa hypoglossi. In some cases these twigs remain separate throughout all their course ; in other cases they unite. Phrenic nerve.--This is the most important nerve criven off by the cervical plexus. It springs from the fourth nerve, and usually also obtains a root from the fifth or third nerve, or perhaps from both. If the root from the fifth nerve fails, the phrenic will in all proba- bility be found to receive lower down a twig from the nerve to the subclavius. The course which the phrenic pursues in the neck is so definite, that there should never be any difficulty in recognising it. It descends, inclining at the same time inwards, in front of the scal- enus anticus, and leaves the neck to enter the thorax by passing under cover of the subclavian vein and crossing the internal mammary artery from without inwards. On the left side, it also crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. As it proceeds downwards on the scalenus anticus, it passes behind the omo- hyoid, the transversalis colli artery, the supra-scapular artery', and on the left side the thoracic duct. The phrenic nerve gives off no branches in the neck, but before it enters the thorax, it is usually joined by a small sympathetic twig. Communicating Branches.-(i.) At the base of the skull, the first loop of the cervical plexus is brought into close connection, by means of connecting twigs, with the vagus and hypoglossal nerves. These cannot175 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. be displayed at present, but will be examined in a subsequent dissection. (2.) Each of the four cervical nerves which form the plexus, receives a communica- ting filament from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. (3.) Communications are effected indirectly in two places by the second, third, and fourth nerves with the spinal accessory—viz., in the substance of the sterno-mastoid by the twig from the second nerve to this muscle, and again on the under surface of the trapezius by the branches which go to this muscle from the third and fourth nerves. Common Carotid Artery.—The common carotid is the great artery of supply to the head and neck. Its origin is different on the two sides of the body. On the right side, it springs with the subclavian from the innominate artery behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left side, it arises within the thorax, from the transverse part of the aortic arch. In both cases the common carotid- ends (as a rule) opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, by dividing into the external and internal carotid branches, and in both cases the course which it pursues in neck, and the relations which it exhibits, are so much alike that one description will suffice. The course of the common carotid is slightly oblique, and may be marked on the surface by drawing a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the lower jaw and the mastoid process. At the root of the neck the two vessels are176 HEAD AND NECK. close together, the trachea and oesophagus alone inter- vening, but as they proceed upwards they diverge slightly from each other, and where they end they are separated by the entire width of the thyroid cartilage and the pharynx. Together with the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric nerve, and frequently the descendens noni nerve, the vessel is enveloped by a strongly- marked sheath derived from the cervical fascia. This has been removed, but its constitution, and the relation which its contents bear to each other within it, have been already observed (pp. m, 13 5)- The common carotid artery is very differently circumstanced in regard to the surface in its lower and upper parts. Opposite the cricoid cartilage it is crossed by the omo-hyoid, and below this it is placed very deeply, being covered by the integument, platysma, and deep fascia, and by three muscular strata—viz., sterno-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid. * . Above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle it lies within the limits of the carotid triangle, and is there- fore placed nearer the surface. Here it is simply overlapped by the anterior margin of the sterno- mastoid, and covered by the platysma, fasciae, and integument. The vessels and nerves in relation to its anterior surface are — (1.) Superior thyroid vein. (2.) Middle thyroid vein. (3.) Anterior jugular vein. (4.) Sterno-mastoid artery. (5.) Descendens noni nerve and the ansa hypo- glossi.COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 177 The three veins cross the common carotid from within outwards, and at different levels—viz., the superior thyroid near its bifurcation, the middle thyroid below the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the anterior jugular at the root of the neck ; whilst, however, the thyroid veins are in immediate relation to the vessel, the anterior jugular is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The stemo- mastoid artery, a branch of the superior thyroid, crosses the vessel as it lies within the carotid triangle. The descendens noni proceeds downwards and inwards upon the vessel, and frequently within its sheath. The ansa hypoglossi is formed upon the anterior aspect of the carotid sheath by the union of the descendens noni with the communi- cantes noni. Behind, the vessel is in apposition with the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. These intervene between it and the cervical vertebrse. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the inferior thyroid artery are also related to it posteriorly. The sympathetic cord descends vertically behind the artery, and is inter- posed between its sheath and the prevertebral muscles; the recurrent laryngeal is carried upwards and inwards behind the lower part of the vessel; the inferior thyroid artery crosses behind the carotid sheath about the level of the sixth cental vertebra. To the outer side of the common carotid artery lie the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugular PART III. , * faHEAD AND NECK. i78 vein * whilst internally it is in contact with a succession of structures as it proceeds upwards—viz., (i.) the trachea and oesophagus, with the recurrent laryngeal nerve in the groove between them; (2.) the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, which overlaps the vessel; (3.) the larynx and the pharynx. o Cricoid cartilage Lower end of pharynx inf. thyroid artery Internal carotoid artery Fig. 26. Tracing from a frozen section (slightly reduced). As a general rule, the common carotid artery gives off no collateral branches, and its calibre is of eqnal diameter throughout, except close to its bifurcation, where a slight bulging or dilatation may usually be noticed. * On the left side, at the root of the neck, the internal Tartly alightUefval, through the middle of whieh the vages nerve passes down perpendicularly.THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 179 Inter-carotic Body—(Fig. 21, p. 136).—This is a little oval reddish-brown body, placed upon the deep aspect of the common carotid artery at the point where it, bifurcates. To expose it, therefore, the vessel must be twisted round in such a manner as to cause its posterior surface to look forwards. It is closely connected with the sympathetic filaments which twine around the carotid vessels, and for a time was regarded as belonging to the sympathetic nervous system. Its structure, however, shows it to be an arterial gland similar in its nature to the minute coccygeal body which rests upon the anterior aspect of the tip of the coccyx. Entering it are numerous minute arterial twigs, which take origin from the termination of the common carotid and the commencement of the external carotid. The function of this remarkable little body is quite un- known. The External Carotid Artery commences at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and, taking an upward course, it ends in the substance of the parotid gland, immediately behind the neck of the lower jaw, by dividing into the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. It. is termed external not on account of its position in relation to *e internal carotid, but on account of its being mainly distributed to parts on the exterior of the skull, indeed at its .origin its position in relation to the internal carotid is the very reverse of that which its name implies. It lies in front of the internal carotidIg0 HEAD AND NECK. and somewhat to its inner side. As it ascends, how- ever it inclines slightly backwards, so that very shortly it comes to lie directly over the internal carotid. In the study of this vessel, the dissector will perceive that it can very conveniently be divided into three sta-es corresponding to three marked changes in the relations which it presents. The first stage is contained within the carotid triangle. It is therefore, com- paratively speaking, superficial. Here it is overlapped by the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, covered by the platysma, fasciae, and integument, and crossed by the lingual and common facial veins as they run towards the internal jugular. The second stage is more deeply placed. It is crossed by the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid muscle, and by the hypo-glossal nerve. The third stage is in relation to the parotid gland. Emerging from under cover of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, the artery ascends for a short distance under cover of the lower part of the parotid gland, and then sinks into its substance, in which it remains for the remainder of its course Whilst in the parotid gland, the external carotid artery is crossed near its termination by the portio dura nerve, whilst the temporo-maxillary vein passes downwards superficial to it* * These relations cannot be seen at present, but they will afterwards inesereiauo be noted that whUe be ^^£j^£££% much nearer its deep than its tE urfac ed frozen sections through the parotid region T^ittS eaSy only a very small part of the terminal portion show that it is £ ' > ^ he ]and> Beiow this it merely t^^o^C^-ofaeland, ,Fig. ,8, „ so...THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. l8l So much then for the superficial relations of this vessel. There are others which also deserve attention. Observe that at its commencement, it lies in relation to the pharynx, and that higher up it rests upon the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the styloid process and the glossopharyngeal nerve, and that these three structures intervene between it and the internal carotid. As the external carotid ascends, it diminishes rapidly in calibre, owing to the numerous large branches which it gives off. It is customary to classify these, according to the direction which they take, into the following groups : Superior thyroid, Lingual, Facial, Internal maxillary, Occipital, . Posterior auricular, i Directed forwards and inwards. [ Directed backwards and ) outwards. Ascending pharyngeal, ) Directed almost vertically Superficial temporal, . J upwards. But these are not the only branches which come off from the external carotid. Small twigs are also given to the parotidgland, and to the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. The Superior Thyroid Artery arises within the carotid triangle, from the fore part of the external carotid close to its origin. From this it takes a curved course downwards and forwards, under cover of the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sternothyroid muscles,182 HEAD AND NECK. and ends by breaking up into twigs, which enter the substance of the thyroid body. The following branches proceed from it :— (i.) Hyoid. (4-) Crico-thyroid. (2.) Superior laryngeal. (5.) Thyroid. (3.) Sterno-mastoid. The hyoid is a minute twig, which springs from the superior thyroid before it leaves the carotid triangle, and runs transversely inwards under cover of the thyro- hyoid muscle, and along the lower border of the hyoid bone. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the lingual. The superior laryngeal artery is a larger vessel. It springs from the superior thyroid as it lies in the carotid triangle, and associating itself with the supe- rior laryngeal nerve, it enters the larynx by piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane. The sterno-mastoid artery is a small vessel which runs downwards and outwards across the carotid sheath, to reach the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, into which it sinks. It gives, in addition, minute twigs to the depressor muscles of the larynx, and its only claim to special description is the position it occupies in relation to the common carotid artery. The crico-thyroid artery runs inwards upon the crico- thyroid membrane, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. It has already been noticed, in the dissection of the middle line of the neck (p. 142), and its bearing upon the operation of laryngotomy has been mentioned (p. 145)- The thyroid or terminal branches of the superiorLINGUAL ARTERY. 183 thyroid artery are distributed for the most part upon the superficial aspect of the thyroid body. One branch, however, is given to the deep surface of the lateral lobe, and another is carried inwards across the trachea, along the upper border of the isthmus. These thyroid branches anastomose freely with the inferior thyroid arteries, and with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The superior thyroid vein emerges from the upper part of the thyroid body. It receives tributaries, which, in a great measure, correspond with the branches of the artery, and crosses the upper part of the common carotid to join the internal jugular vein. Lingual Artery.—Only a very small portion of this artery is seen in the present dissection. It springs from the external carotid, a short distance above the superior thyroid. In the first instance, it takes an upward course, but very soon it changes its direction, and bends suddenly downwards to reach the upper border of the hyoid bone, where it disappears from view by passing forwards under cover of the hyo- glossus muscle. It will subsequently be traced to its ultimate distribution in the dissection of the submax- illary region. Note in the meantime, however, that the part under observation lies in the carotid triangle, that the loop which it forms is crossed by the hypo- glossal nerve, and that it gives off one branch termed the hyoid artery. The hyoid branch springs from the lingual, close to184 HEAD AND NECK. the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle, and runs inwards along the upper margin of the hyoid bone to anastomose with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and also with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid. The Facial Artery can be studied, at the present stage of the dissection, from its origin up to the point where it mounts upon the base of the lower jaw to reach the face. This is termed the cervical part of the facial artery. It springs from the fore part of the external carotid, immediately above the lingual, and then proceeds upwards and forwards. Finally, it enters the region of the face at the anterior border of the masseter muscle by passing over the base of the lower jaw. In its course through the neck, it presents stages very similar to those already noticed in con- nection with the external carotid. Thus it first lies in the carotid triangle, then it disappears under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid muscle, and the hypo-glossal nerve; and finally it is enclosed within the substance of the submaxillary gland. With regard to this latter part of the artery, it is necessary that the dissector should note: (i.) that the vessel can be disengaged from the submaxil- lary gland by dissection without lacerating the gland- structure ; it is placed, as it were, in a deep furrow in the gland-substance; (2.) that this part of its course is almost horizontal, and parallel with the lower margin of the inferior maxilla ; (3.) that on emerging from the gland it turns abruptly upwards to reach theTHE FACIAL ARTERY. I85 face; and (4.) that the facial vein passes backwards and downwards superficial to the submaxillary gland. Four named branches spring from the facial artery in the cervical part of its course:— (1.) The inferior palatine. (2.) The tonsilitic. (1.) The submaxillary. (2.) The submental. The inferior palatine artery is given off for the supply of the soft palate, but it also gives branches to the tonsil and Eustachian tube. It ascends between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles. The tonsillitic artery goes to the tonsil, and at present it is seen disappearing between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Both of these vessels will be traced to their destination in the deep dissection of the neck, and in the dissection of the pharynx. The submaxillary branches are given to the gland during the sojourn of the facial artery in its midst. The submental artery is a branch of some size. It springs from the facial, close to the base of the inferior maxilla, and then runs forwards upon the mylo-hyoid muscle towards the chin. Near the symphysis it changes its direction, and is carried upwards over the base of the jaw, to end in branches for the muscles and integument of the chin and lower hp. In the submaxillary region it gives numerous twigs to the surrounding muscles, and anastomoses with the sublingual artery by branches which pierce the mylo-hyoid muscle. In the face it anastomoses with the inferior labial branch of the facial and the mental branch of the inferior dental. The cervical portion of the facial vein will be noticedHEAD AND NECK. passing backwards and downwards, superficial to the submaxillary gland and facial artery. After picking up tributaries corresponding to the branches of the similar part of the artery, it joins the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. The short trunk thus formed is termed the common facial vein, and it pours its blood into the internal jugular at the level of the hyoid bone. The Internal Maxillary Artery will be dis- played in the dissection of the pterygo-maxillary space. Occipital Artery.—The occipital artery springs from the posterior aspect of the external carotid at the same level as the facial. It takes the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle as its guide, and runs upwards and backwards to reach the interval between the mastoid process and the trans- verse process of the atlas. From this onwards it has been studied in the dissection of the scalp and the back of the neck (pp. 12, 49, and 61). The first part of the vessel which is at present under notice will be observed to cross the internal carotid artery, the vagus nerve, the spinal accessory nerve, and the internal jugular vein. The hypoglossal nerve hooks round it, and it is overlapped by the lower border of the pos- terior belly of the digastric muscle. The only branches which spring from this portion of the occipital are:—(1.) muscular twigs; and (2.) a meningeal branch.THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. The muscular twigs are given to the neighbouring muscles, and one of them, larger than the others and very constant, is termed the sterno-mastoid branch, because it associates itself with the spinal accessory- nerve, and sinks with it into the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The meningeal branch associates itself with the internal jugular vein, and can be followed upwards upon it to the jugular foramen, through which it passes into the cranium. The Posterior Auricular Artery will be found above the level of the posterior belly of the digastric, and, like the occipital, it takes origin from the hinder aspect of the external carotid artery. In the first part of its course it is placed deeply, and runs up- wards and backwards upon the styloid process of the temporal borte to reach the interval between the mastoid process and the back of the auricle. Here it joins the posterior auricular nerve, and its further course has been studied in the dissection of the scalp (p. n). Before gaining this point it lies under cover of the lower portion of the parotid gland, and is crossed by the facial nerve. This portion of the posterior auricular artery gives off—(i.) muscular twigs; (2.) a few branches to the parotid gland ; and (3.) the stylo-mastoid artery. The stylo-mastoid artery is a slender vessel which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen upon the facial nerve. In the interior of the temporal bone it has an extensive distribution. It supplies twigs to the mastoid188 HEAD AND NECK. cells and to the tympanum, and is carried onwards in the aqueduct of Fallopius to anastomose with the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal. The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery is the smallest branch of the external carotid. It takes origin a short distance from the commencement of the parent trunk, and will be recognised by its pro- ceeding vertically upwards between the internal caro- tid and the pharynx. It will be subsequently traced in the deep dissection of the neck. The Superficial Temporal Artery cannot be displayed at present. In the dissection of the face the student will have an opportunity of studying it The Thyroid Body may now be examined and its connections made out. It is a highly vascular solid body, which clasps the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards for some distance upon each side of the larynx. In size it varies greatly in different individuals, and in females and children it is always relatively larger than in adult males. It consists of three well-marked subdivisions—viz., two lateral lobes joined across the middle line by the isthmus. Each lateral lobe is somewhat conical in form, its base extending downwards as far as the fifth or the sixth tracheal ring, whilst its apex rests upon the side of the thyroid cartilage. Its superficial surface is full and rounded, and is clothed by the pre-tracheal layer of cervical fascia, from which it derives a sheath, andTHE THYROID BODY. 189 also by the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo- hyoid muscles. It is further overlapped by the sterno- mastoid muscle (Fig. 26, p. 178). Its deep surface is adapted to the parts upon which it lies—viz., to the side of the trachea, the cricoid cartilage, and the thyroid cartilage, whilst its posterior border extends backwards so as to touch the oesophagus and pharynx, and over- lap the common carotid artery. The isthmus of the thyroid body has already been observed in the dissection of the middle line of the neck. It is a narrow band of varying dimensions which lies in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea, and unites the bases or lower ends of the two lateral lobes. A still further lobe is frequently found in connec- tion with the thyroid body. This is the pyramid or the middle lobe. When present it assumes the form of an elongated slender process which springs from the isthmus on one or other side of the mesial plane (more usually on the left side), and extends upwards towards the hyoid bone. To this it may be connected by fibrous tissue, or perhaps by a narrow slip com- posed of muscular fibres, which receives the name of levator glandidce thyroidece. In some cases this little muscle has an attachment to the thyroid body independently of the pyramidal process. The thyroid body is firmly connected to the parts upon which it lies, and therefore follows the larynx in all its move- ments. The dissector will not fail to be struck with the great vascu- larity of the thyroid body. Four large arteries, and occasion-HEAD AND NECK. ally a fifth smaller vessel, convey blood to its substance. The two superior thyroid branches of the external carotid arteries enter the apex and anterior surface of each lateral lobe, and send a branch inwards, along the upper border of the isthmus ; the two inferior thyroid branches of the subclavian arteries distribute their terminal branches to the basal portion and deep surface of each lateral lobe. The occasional artery is the thyroidea ima, a branch of the innominate (more rarely of the common carotid or the aortic arch), which ascends upon the anterior aspect of the trachea to reach the isthmus of the thyroid body. These thyroid arteries anastomose very freely with each other. The veins which drain the blood away from the thyroid body are still more numerous. They arise in part by tributaries which spring from a venous network on the anterior face of the structure, but chiefly by branches which emerge from its sub- stance. They are three in number on each side—viz., the superior thyroid, the middle thyroid, and the inferior thyroid. The superior and middle thyroid veins cross the carotid sheath and join the internal jugular; the inferior thyroid with its fellow of the opposite side descends in front of the trachea, and as a rule they unite at the root of the neck and open into the left innominate. When the student reflects upon these vascular connections of the thyroid body, he will readily appreciate the gravity of any operation which is undertaken for its removal in cases where it is diseased. The Trachea and the CEsophagus in the cervical portion of their course may now be studied. Both begin at the level of the cricoid cartilage, in front of the sixth cervical vertebra. From this point they extend downwards in front of the vertebral column to the thoracic cavity. The trachea, or windpipe, is a wide tube which is kept constantly patent by the cartilaginous rings embedded in its walls. These rings do not formDISSECTION OF THE FACE. 191 complete circles ; posteriorly they are deficient, and in consequence the trachea is flattened behind. Above it is continuous with the larynx, and throughout its whole course it is placed in the mesial plane of the body. The anterior relations of the trachea have already been fully discussed in connection with the description of the parts occupying the middle line of the neck (p. 143). Posteriorly it rests upon the gullet. Upon either side is the common carotid artery ; whilst closely applied to it in its upper part is the lateral lobe of the thyroid body. The recurrent laryngeal nerve ascends on each side in the angle between the trachea and oesophagus. The cesophagus or gullet is a narrow tube with thick muscular walls, which extends from the pharynx to the stomach. In the cervical part of its course it lies between the trachea and the prevertebral muscles, and as it descends it inclines slightly to the left, so that it comes more closely into relation with the lateral lobe of the thyroid body and the carotid sheath upon this side than with the same structures on the opposite side. DISSECTION OP THE FACE. The deep parts of the neck cannot be displayed satisfactorily until the pterygo - maxillary and submaxillary regions have been opened up. It is necessary, therefore, at this stage to leave the neck and proceed with the dissection of the face. Here, the following structures have to be examined :—192 HEAD AND NECK. The appendages of the eye. The muscles of expression. The parotid gland and its duct. ((a.) Facial artery and its branches. (b.) Twigs from the ophthalmic and internal maxillary arteries. (c.) Transverse facial artery. Vessels,/ (d.) External carotid dividing into superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries. (e.) Facial and angular veins. (/) Temporo-maxillary vein. ((a) Facial branch of the great auricular. 5. Nerves,\ \b.) Facial nerve. \(c.) Sensory branches from the fifth nerve. 6. The cartilages of the nose. 7. The external auricle. The dissection of the face is both difficult and tedious. The ramifications of the nerves are so intricate, and the fibres of the facial muscles are so pale and so closely surrounded by the soft subcutane- ous fat of the region that great care and patience are required on the part of the student to obtain a proper display of the various structures. In cases where the dissection is undertaken for the first time, it may be well to devote particular attention to the nerves and muscles on the one side and to the vessels and muscles on the opposite side. At the same time it must be clearly understood that a good dissector should be able to make a complete dissection upon both sides.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 193 External Anatomy of the Ocular Appendages. —Before the skin is reflected from the face, the external appearance of the various appendages of the eye should be studied. Under this head we examine :— 1. The eyebrows. 2. The eyelids. 3. The conjunctiva. The eyebrows are two curved tegumentary pro- jections placed over the orbital arch of the frontal bone, so as to intervene between the forehead above and the ocular regions below. The short stiff hairs which spring from these have an outward inclination Whilst this is the general arrangement, however, it will be easily seen that the lower hairs at the same time incline upwards and the upper hairs incline downwards. The tegumentary thickening which gives rise to the prominence of the eyebrows will afterwards be seen to be caused partly by an increased density of the skin, and partly by subjacent muscular fibres Three muscles gain partial insertion into it-viz., the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and the frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis. The eyelids are two semilunar curtains provided for the protection of each eyeball. The upper id is the longer and much the more movable of he two. When the eye is open the margins of the two lids are slightly concave and the interval between them is elliptical in outline. This interval is termed the .palpebral fissure. When the eye is PART III. OI94 HEAD AND NECK, closed and the margins of the lids are in apposition with each other, the palpebral fissure is reduced to a nearly horizontal line, slightly higher internally than externally. Owing to the greater length and freer mobility of the upper lid, the fissure in this condition is placed below the level of the cornea. At the extremities of the palpebral fissure the eye- lids meet and form the palpebral commissures or canthi and at the inner canthus the fissure expands £ a small triangular space called the locus lackry- lalis. If the dissector now examine the free margms of the lids he will observe that to the outer side of 1 laeus lachrymahs they are flat and that in each case the eyelashes project from the -tenor bo der whilst the meibomian glands open along the posterior border-a distinct interval intervening between he HI a and the ^land-mouths. The small portion of the t^otll eyelid on the other hand which the lacus lachrymahs is more horizontal in diction —at rounded and ^ and meibomian glands. At the very P eyelashes in each eyelid cease, and the palpebral Zgin becomes rounded, a minute eminence w th a central perforation will be seen. The eminence is he central penu nerforation, called the papilla lackrymaUs whil t the Prfo ^ punctum lachrymale, is the mouti canal the duct which conveys away the tears Endeavour to pass a bristle into each of the orifices Se upper canal at first for a short distance ascends wSst'the lower one descends, and then both run inwards to the lachrymal sac.DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 195 The Conjunctiva is the membrane which lines the deep surface of both the lids, and is reflected from them on to the anterior aspect of the eyeball. At the margins of the lids, it is continuous with the skin, whilst through the puncta and the lachrymal canals it becomes continuous with the lining membrane of the lachrymal sac. The line of reflection of the conjunctiva from the lids on to the eyeball is termed th& fornix. Owing to the greater depth of the upper lid the conjunctival recess between the upper lid and the eyeball is of greater extent than that in connection with the lower lid. The connection between the conjunctiva on the one hand, and the eyelids and sclerotic coat of the eyeball on the other, is of a loose character. Over the cornea, however, the membrane becomes thinned down to a mere epithelial covering, which is closely adherent. In connection with the conjunctiva the plica semilunaris and the caruncula lachrymalis must be examined. The caruncula is the reddish fleshy- looking elevation, which occupies the centre of the lacus lachrymalis at the inner canthus. From its surface a few minute hairs project. The plica semilunaris is of interest because in the human eye it is the rudimentary representative of the membrana nictitans, or third eyelid, of the bird and many other animals. It is a small vertical fold of conjunctiva, which is placed immediately to the outer side of the caruncula and slightly overlaps at this point the eyeball.jog HEAD AND NECK. Dissection-It will facilitate the dissection if the student introduce under the eyelids, cheeks, and hps a small quantity of cotton-wadding or tow soaked >n spirit The margins of the lips and eyelids may then be stitched together. In doing this it is necessary to employ a fine needle. Only one incision is required for the reflection of the skin-viz., a vertical cut carried upwards immediately in front of the_ ear until it meets the coronal incision which was made in reflect- ing the integument from the scalp. The skin may then be thrown forwards as far as the middle line of the face and removed entirely. In raising the skin the dissector must proceed with great caution. Carefully preserve the fibres of the Platysma as they pass upwards upon the lower ja«-to blend with the fascia, to find insertion into the bon and mix with the fibres of certain of ^ facial muse fp 102). The little riser** muscle (in most cases LJous with the ^^^T^Zl from the masseteric ^^^ {emeM isapttobemjured and must thereto ^ In the case of the eyelids the skin separated from the subjacent — fibres by^a small amount of ^ar tissue dev care therefore is required on the part o to remove it successfully. Over the ala of the nose andThe chin, the integument is difficult to raise on account of its density, and also from its close connec- tion with subjacent structures. When the skin is completely reflected, and the attYchments of the platysma satisfactorily demon-197 PAROTID REGION. strated, the latter may be turned up so as to expose the facial artery passing upwards upon the jaw. The Facial Branches of the Great Auricular Nerve must next be traced. Several small filaments from these will be seen to penetrate the parotid gland, for the purpose of joining the facial nerve. Others pro- ceed forwards, and supply the skin over the parotid, masseteric, and buccal regions. The Parotid Gland now demands the attention of the dissector. In defining this structure, the greatest care must be taken not to injure the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery, as they emerge from its substance, along its upper and anterior borders. The duct also, which appears at its anterior border, must be followed forwards upon the masseter muscle. When the superficial relations of the parotid have been examined, the gland-substance must be removed piece-meal, so as to bring into view the vari- ous structures with which its deep surface is in contact, and at the same time expose the blood-vessels and nerves which transverse it. This can best be effected by tracing into it the branches of the facial nerve, and the trunk of the transverse facial artery. Care must be taken not to injure the auriculotem- poral nerve, which ascends under cover of the upper part of its posterior border. The communicating twigs from the auriculotemporal, and great auricular nerves to the facial nerve, must be preserved. By this dissec- tion the termination of the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein will be displayed.HEAD AND NECK. 198 The parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands. It is lodged in the niehe between the lower taw and the ear, and being adapted to this recess, it is of a very irregular figure. Above, it is limited by the zygoma Below its lower border corresponds with a line drawn from the angle of the lower jaw to the mastoid process, and here it is separated from the Stenson's duet Submaxillary gland PlatyBma Anterior belly of digastric Fig. 27. Anatomic des Meuschen.) {From Gegenbaurs submaxillary gland by that partition of the deep cervical fascia which the student has already studied under the name of the stylo-maxillary ligament. Behind it abuts against the auditory meatus the mastoid process, and the sterno-mastoid muscle. iTfront it will be seen to overlap the posteno border of the masseter, and extend forwards upon itf PAROTID REGION. 199 for a short distance. It is from the thin anterior margin towards its upper part that the duct of the gland emerges, and frequently a small detached lobule of gland substance will be observed lying upon the masseter in relation to the upper aspect of the duct. This is termed the socia parotidis. The superficial or external surface of the parotid is slightly convex, and is covered by the dense parotid fascia which the dissector has already observed to be a prolongation upwards into the face of a portion of the deep cervical fascia (p. 109). In relation to this surface, and under cover of the fascia, there are usually one or two small lymphatic glands. The deep surface of the gland is in relation to many important structures, and is moulded upon the various parts with which it is in contact. To see these, the organ must be removed piece-meal in the manner described above, but it is necessary in the first place to study the duct, which conveys its secretion to the buccal cavity. Parotid Duct.—This is also called Stensoris Duct. It issues from the anterior border of the gland, about an inch or so below the zygoma, and then proceeds forwards upon the masseter muscle. In relation to it above will be seen the socia parotidis and the trans- verse facial artery, whilst accompanying it, below, are some branches of the facial nerve. At the anterior border of the masseter, it dips inwards, and, piercing the buccinator, runs forwards for a short distance between this muscle and the mucous membrane.200 HEAD AND NECK. Finally, at a point corresponding with the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, it opens into the mouth by a minute orifice placed on the summit of a small papilla. In length, the duct measures about two inches, and its course may be marked out on the surface of the cheek by drawing a line from the lower part of the external auditory meatus of the auricle to a point midway between the nostrils and the margin of the red part of the lip. The dissector should now open the duct, and pass a fine probe through it into the mouth. The calibre of the tube will then be observed to be greatly reduced at its opening upon the inner aspect of the cheek. Evert the cheek, and examine this orifice. Deep Relations of Parotid Gland.—The parotid gland may now be removed piece-meal by following the facial nerves and the transverse facial artery into its substance (p. 197). The dissector will see how deeply the parotid gland passes inwards, and how intricate are its connections. The styloid process, with the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles arising from it, the internal jugular vein, the three divisions of the eighth cranial nerve, and the hypo- glossal nerve, are all in close relation to its deep surface, whilst, not far off, is the internal carotid artery. Behind and below, it is in contact with the posterior belly of the digastric and the posterior auricular artery Further, a portion of gland substance will be seen occupying the back part of the glenoid fossa, whilst another portion stretches forwards for a shortPAROTID REGION. 201 distance under cover of the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle. The fascial connections of the parotid gland deserve some attention. The recess in which it lies is lined by a well-marked fascia, and we have noted the parotid fascia upon its superficial aspect. The entire gland is enveloped, therefore, in a strong envelope. 9 a {3 ID *t rt- Compressor naris i; Levator labii sup. alasque nasi Levator anguii oris Zygomaticus major Buccinator Masseter Temporal muscle Inf. dental vessels and nerve Parotid Stylo-gloss us Int. pterygoid Temporo-maxillary vein Ext carotid Post, belly of digastric S terno-mastoid Antrum of Highmore Dorsum of tongue Tonsil Pharynx Ascending pharyngeal artery Prevertebral muscleB Stylo-phuryngeus Internal carotid Vagus Stylo-hyoid Int. jugular vein Vertebral artery FlG. 28. Transverse section through the head at the level of the point of the nose and lower part of the superior maxillary bone. The section has passed in such a plane as to remove a portion of the roof of the mouth, and in the gap thus caused the dorsum of the tongue is visible. {Tracingfrom a frozen section, reduced.) The parotid fascia presents very important connec- tions. Above, it is attached to the zygoma; behind, it is attached to the meatus auditorius, and below that, splits to enclose the sterno-mastoid; in front it is continuous with the fascia over the masseter, whilst below, it is continuous with the deep cervical fascia.202 HEAD AND NECK. Vessels and Nerves which traverse the Parotid.-By the removal of the gland, the vessels and nerves which traverse the gland are brought into view. These are :— (i ) External carotid artery, ( Superficial temporal. dividing into . • 1 Internal maxillary. (2.) Transverse facial artery. (*.) Temporo-maxillary vein. , (4.) Facial nerve, or portio dura of the seventh cranial nerve. . (5 ) Communicating twigs from the great auricular and auriculo-temporal nerves to the portio dura. The external carotid, as it ascends in the substance of the gland, lies nearer its deep than its superficial surface. In fact, in the lower part of its parotid stage the artery is not placed within the gland, but merely under cover of it, and slightly under shelter of the posterior border of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw (Fig. 28). Note that the portio dura crosses superficial to it, and that opposite the neck of the lower jaw it divides into the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary arteries. The temporo-maxillary vein is formed by the union of the superficial temporal and internal maxillary veins behind the neck of the lower jaw. It descends in the substance of the parotid superficial to the external carotid artery. At the lower border of the gland it divides into an anterior and posterior trunk. The former joins the facial vein, whilst tlfe latter unites with the posterior auricular vein to form the external jugular.THE SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY. 203 The internal maxillary artery at once passes for- wards under cover of the neck of the jaw and disappears from view. The superficial temporal artery- may now be fully followed out. The Superficial Temporal Artery appears to be the direct continuation upwards of the external carotid artery. At first in the substance of the parotid it soon emerges from this, and crossing the root of the zygoma, ascends upon the temporal fascia for a distance of about two inches, and then divides into its two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior superficial temporal arteries. These are described in p. 11. The superficial temporal artery is closely accompanied by the auriculo-temporal nerve, and the superficial temporal vein. In addition to its terminal branches it gives off— 1. Parotid twigs. 3. Transverse facial. 2. Anterior auricular 4. Middle temporal. branches. 5. Orbital. The anterior auricular branches supply the anterior aspect of the external auricle and anastomose with the posterior auricular artery. The transverse facial is given off in the substance of the parotid. It runs transversely forwards through the gland, and emerging from its anterior border, proceeds onwards across the masseter to end in twigs which anastomose with branches of the facial, buccal and infra-orbital arteries. Whilst it lies on the masseter muscle it is in relation to the upper border of the parotid duct.204 HEAD AND NECK* The middle temporal arises immediately above the zygoma, and it pierces the temporal fascia to reach the temporal muscle, and communicate with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The orbital artery is an inconstant branch which runs forwards above the zygoma to supply the outer part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the skin in this neighbourhood. Muscles of the Face.—The muscles of the face are arranged in three groups-viz., (i.) palpebral and superciliary ; (2.) oral; (3.) nasal. Each of these groups may be examined in turn. It is convenient to begin with the palpebral and superciliary muscles. These are three in number :— 1. Orbicularis palpebrarum. 2. Tensor tarsi (Horner's muscle). . 3. Corrugator supercilii. The upper eyelid has a special elevator, termed the levator palpebral superioris, but this muscle is contained within the orbital cavity, and does not come under the notice of the dissector at the present stage. The examination of the tensor tarsi must also be deferred until the eyelids are dissected. If the eyelids be drawn outwards, a prominent cord-like ligament becomes apparent on the inner side of the inner canthus. This extends outwards from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone to reach the eyelids, and it is termed the Undo ocuhTHE ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM. 205 or internal tarsal ligament. It will be afterwards more fully examined, but it is necessary to notice it at present, seeing that it is closely connected with the origin of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the palpebral fissure. It is a thin sheet of muscular fibres, which occupies a very considerable area of the face. It is customary to regard it as being composed of two parts, a palpebral and an orbital. The palpebral portion is the part which lies upon eye- lids. It is thin and pale, and its fibres arise from the margins of the palpebral ligament. From this they sweep outwards upon the two lids, describing a series of gentle curves, and at the outer canthus, they obtain a feeble attachment to the external tarsal ligament. They form a continuous layer of uniform thickness in both eyelids, except at the margins of the palpebral fissure. Here, close to the bases of the eyelashes, there is a more pronounced fasciculus, which is termed the ciliary muscle. The orbital portion is placed upon the margin of the orbital opening; but it is not confined to this. It extends for some distance beyond it, upwards on the forehead, downwards on the cheek, and outwards so as to encroach upon the temporal region. The fasciculi which compose this part of the muscle are of a darker and coarser type. They all arise internally and sweep outwards around the orbital margin in the form of a series of concentric loops. The origin is a triple one—viz., (i.) from the inner part of the internal206 HEAD AND NECK. tarsal ligament, (2.) from the internal angular process of the frontal bone above this, and (3.) from the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone below it. Above and to the inner side the fasciculi of the orbicularis muscle are closely connected, and to a certain extent interlaced with the fasciculi of the frontal part of the occipito-frontalis, the corrugator supercilii and the pyramidalis nasi, whilst from its lower margin a few delicate fleshy bands are carried downwards through the soft fat to gain insertion into the skin of the cheek. Corrugator Supercilii.-This is a minute but very distinct band of dark coloured muscular fibres which can be exposed by raising the upper and inner part of the orbicularis with the frontalis muscle which is connected with it, from the superciliary ridge The corrugator supercilii will then be seen arising from the inner extremity of this ridge. Its fibres pass upwards and outwards, and the greater proportion of them pass through the fasciculi of the orbicularis and frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis to gain a direct insertion into the skin of the eyebrow; one of its muscular bundles, however, joins the orbicularis, whilst a few others blend with the frontalis. The Oral Group of Muscles.—The muscles of the lips and mouth which are included in this group are the following:—207 ORAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. 1. Orbicularis oris. , j major. 2. Zygomaticus, i . , ( minor. 3. Risorius. 6. Levator anguli oris. 7. Depressor anguli oris. 8. Depressor labii inferioris. 9. Levator menti. 10. Buccinator. 4. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. 5. Levator labii superioris. It is in dissecting these muscles that the chief difficulty will be encountered in preserving the various nerves of the face. Several large branches of the facial nerve will be found passing forwards under cover of the zygomatic muscles to reach the under- surface of the levator labii superioris, where they form a complicated plexus with the infra-orbital nerve. Other branches proceed forwards upon the buccinator muscle, and enter into communications in front of the masseter with the long buccal nerve. All these must be carefully followed out as the muscles are being exposed and cleaned. Orbicularis Oris—This is a sphincter muscle which surrounds the orifice of the mouth, and towards which the various muscles which play upon the lips converge. Like the corresponding muscle of the palpebral fissure we divide it for descriptive purposes, into two parts—an inner and an outer. The inner or labial part is the portion which lies in relation to the red part of the lips, and the degree of fulness or prominence of the lips largely depends upon its development. It is composed of fasciculi which completely encircle the oral fissure and have at no point a bony attachment.HEAD AND NECK. 208 The outer or facial part is thinner than the labial portion and by its outer margin it blends with the numerous labial muscles which converge towards the aperture of the mouth. The fibres of these muscles therefore and more especially those of the buccinator form a very considerable part of its bulk. It like- wise presents slips of attachment to the maxillary bones and to the nasal septum. Thus in the upper lip there are four such bands, two being placed upon each side of the mesial- plane. They are termed (I.) the naso-labial bands, and (2.) the superior acces- sory bands. In the lower lip there is only one band on each side—viz., the inferior accessory. The naso-labial band is a rounded tapering bundle of muscular fibres which passes upwards and forwards to be attached to the septal cartilage of the nose. The characteristic vertical mesial furrow of the upper lip is in a measure due to the presence of these two muscular slips. The superior accessory bundle takes origin from the incisive foramen of the superior maxilla, whilst the inferior accessory bundle springs from the corresponding fossa of the lower jaw. They can be easily exposed by everting the lips and remov- ing the mucous membrane from the neighbourhood of these fossae. By this dissection two other small muscles will be displayed-(i.) the depressor alae nasi to the inner side of the superior accessory slip, and (2.) the levator menti to the inner side of the inferior accessory slip.ORAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. 209 Zygomaticus Major, Risorius, and Depressor Anguli Oris.—These three muscles may be grouped together, seeing that they lie in the same plane and run towards the angle of the mouth. The platysma also occupies the same plane, and many of its fibres blend with the depressor anguli oris, whilst others are carried forwards into the risorius. The Zygomaticus Major is a long fleshy band which springs from the malar bone immediately ygomaticus major Risorius- Platysma Orbicularis Mental nerve and inf. labial artery Levator menti Depressor labii inferioris Depressor anguli oris Fig. 29. in front of the zygomatic suture. From this it proceeds downwards and forwards, and at the angle of the mouth some of its fibres are inserted into the skin, whilst others blend with the orbicularis oris and with the depressor anguli oris. The Risorius muscle is sometimes regarded as a continuation forwards on the face of the posterior fibres of the platysma; more frequently it takes independent origin from the fascia covering the PART III. p210 HEAD AND NECK. masseter, although some of its fibres eome directly from the platysma. It is composed of a few slender fasciculi which pass transversely forwards in the fatty tissue of the cheek to the angle of the mouth, where they mix with the fibres of the orbicularis and depres- sor anguli oris. The Depressor Anguli Oris (triangularis menti) is a flat triangular muscle which presents a broad origin from the external oblique line of the lower jaw. From this it proceeds upwards to the angle of the mouth and, much reduced in width, its fasciculi mix with those of the orbicularis oris and other muscles in this neighbourhood. The mental branck of the inferior dental nerve and its accompanying artery appear on the face under cover of this muscle. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi.-This is a thin fleshy band which lies along the side of the nose. It is narrow above where it arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone but it expands somewhat as it proceeds downwards and finally it divides into two slips-a nasal and a labial. dinner and smaller nasal slip is inserted into the Wing of the nose, whilst the labial slip ^ Prolonged into the upper lip, where some of its fibres blend with the orbicularis oris, and others obtain a direct attach- ment to the skin. The Levator labii superioris arises from the iower margin of the orbit, immediately above theORAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. 211 infra-orbital foramen. It takes the form of a flat band which proceeds downwards and slightly in- wards, and it ends by some of its fasciculi running into the orbicularis, while others gain a direct insertion into the skin of the lip. Under cover of this muscle the large infra-orbital nerve emerges on the face and joins with branches of the facial nerve in the infra- orbital plexus. The Zygomaticus Minor may almost be looked upon as a part of the preceding muscle. It is also closely connected with the orbicularis palpebrarum, from which some of its fasciculi are often derived, and it lies on the same plane as those slender slips which the orbicularis oris sends downwards from its lower margin to the skin of the cheek. It is a slender fleshy bundle which arises from the anterior and lower part of the zygomatic arch in front of the zygomaticus major, and passes downwards and forwards to join the outer margin of the levator labii superioris. Levator anguli oris (musculus caninus).—The origin of this muscle is hidden by the levator labii superioris. It springs from the upper part of the canine fossa immediately below the infra-orbital foramen, and proceeds downwards and outwards to the angle of the mouth. Here its fasciculi mingle with those of the orbicularis, zygomaticus major and depressor anguli oris.2I2 HEAD AND NECK. The Depressor labii inferioris—otherwise called the quadratus menti, is a quadrate muscle partially hidden by the depressor anguli oris which overlaps it (Fi<* 29). It springs from the lower jaw by a linear origin which extends from the symphysis to a point a short distance beyond the mental foramen, and passing upwards, with a slight inclination inwards, it joins the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and finally blends with the orbicularis oris. Levator Menti {levator labii inferioris).--To expose this small muscle the lower lip must be everted and the mucous membrane removed at the side of the froenum of the lower lip. It is a short, well-marked fleshy band, which springs from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw and proceeds downwards and slightly forward, to be inserted into the skin of the chin between the two depressor muscles of the lower hp (Fig. 29). The Buccinator Muscle must be cleaned with care, because branches from the facial nerve and the long buccal nerve form a plexus upon its surface, and great numbers of nerves enter it, both for the purpose, of supplying it, and also for the purpose of reaching the Lucous membrane of the mouth which lines its deep The 'buccinator muscle occupies the interval between the upper and lower jaws. Above and belotv its fibres take origin from the outer surface of the alveolar margins of both of these bones as far forward as the Zt molar tooth. Behind, its posterior border isNASAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. 213 attached to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, which acts as the bond of union between it and the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. This attachment cannot be studied at present, but will be afterwards examined in the dissection of the pharyngeal wall. Anteriorly it abuts against the angle of the mouth, and its fibres blend with the facial part of the orbicularis oris, a large part of which it forms. But the manner in which the fibres of this muscle enter the orbicularis must be examined. The upper and lower fibres pass directly into the corresponding lip ; Fig. 30. the middle fibres decussate at the angle of the mouth, so that the lower fibres of this series enter the upper lip, whilst the higher fasciculi reach the lower lip. Nasal Group of Muscles.—Under this head are comprised:— 1. Compressor naris. 3. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Levator labii superioris 4. Depressor alse nasi. alseque nasi (already 5. Dilatator naris posterior, examined). 6. Dilatator naris anterior. The Compressor Naris is a flat triangular muscle which springs by a pointed fleshy origin from the2I. HEAD AND NECK. lower and inner part of the canine fossa, under cover of the levator labii superioris ateque nasi. From this it extends inwards and upwards, and expands into an aponeurosis, which covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and in the mesial plane becomes continuous with the corresponding aponeurosis of the opposite side. The Pyramidalis Nasi is a narrow slip of muscular fibres which springs from the apeneurosis of the compressor naris, and passes upwards upon the nasal bone Some of the fibres gain a direct insertion into the skin of the lower part of the forehead ; others are continuous with the fasciculi of the frontalis muscle. The Depressor alffl nasi is a minute muscle, the origin of which has already been displayed by he removal of the mucous membrane at the side of the frcenum of the upper lip. It springs from the inciso fossa of the superior maxilla above and to the inner Sde of the superior accessory slip of the orbicularis oris muscle. Its outer margin is usually more or less blended with the compressor naris, and its fibres a ch upwards and forwards to become attached to the Tower and back part of both the ala and the septum of the nose. THe Dilatator Muscles can rarely be satisfactorily displayed. The fibres which compose them are pale d' feeble, and they are embedded in the dense tissue at the lower and outer part of the nose,215 NERVES OF THE FACE. immediately above the aperture. The anterior slip is placed towards the fore part of the nostril, and the posterior slip at a short distance behind this. Nerves of the Face.—The nerves in this region may be divided into two sets according as they supply the skin or the muscles of the face. The great motor nerve is the facial or portio dura of the seventh cranial nerve. The sensory nerves come from various sources, and they reach the face either directly, or indirectly through the medium of filaments communicating with the portio dura. The following table explains the derivation of these nerves:— Nerves of the Face. I. Motor. 1 Facial or Portio dura. II. Sensory. {a.) Appearing directly on the face. 1. Facial branches of the great auricular. 2. Branches of the fifth' cranial nerve, viz.:— !Supra-orbital. Supra-trocheal. Infra-trochlear. Palpebral branch of the lachrymal. Nasal. I?™™ • r Infra-orbital, -from the superior \ 0 . -ii ,. . . < bubcutaneus malse. maxillary division. J „ . _ , r , V. I emporal branch of the orbital. From the inferior f Auriculotemporal. M1 ,. . . -< Long buccal, maxmary divlslon. \UJ^HEAD AND NECK. 2l6 (b.) Reaching the face indirectly. 1. Communicating branches from the great auricular nerve to the facial. 2. Communicating branches from the auriculo-temporal to the facial. Whilst, therefore, the motor filaments come from one source alone, the sensory nerves are derived partly from the cervical plexus through the great auricular nerve, but chiefly from the fifth cranial nerve, each division of which furnishes several branches to the face. Facial Nerve.—This nerve is already, in a great measure, displayed. Its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen can be rendered more evident by chipping off the free projecting part of the mastoid process. In doing this first use the saw, and then complete its severance with the chisel. Care must be taken not to injure the posterior auricular branch of the facial. By this proceeding a good view can be obtained of the origin of the posterior belly of the digastric, of the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery entering the foramen of the same name upon the facial nerve, and also of the occipital artery in the deepest part of its course. The trunk of the facial nerve emerges from the stylo-mastoid foramen and proceeds forwards in the substance of the parotid gland. Near the posterior margin of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, it ends by dividing into two branches termed respect- ively the tem^M^l and the cervicofacial divisions.NERVES OF THE FACE. 217 In its course through the gland it crosses the pos- terior auricular artery and gives off three branches —viz., the posterior auricular nerve, the nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, and the nerve to the stylo-hyoid muscle. The posterior auricular nerve has already been followed out in its distribution to the retrahens aurem, attollens aurem, and posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis (p. 9). Its origin is now exposed, and it will be seen to arise from the facial trunk immediately after this issues from the stylo-mastoid foramen. Further, at this stage it may be possible to make out a communication between the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric * (Arnold's nerve) and the posterior auricular. The nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric is a stout, short branch which inclines downwards and forwards and soon divides into several filaments which enter the upper surface of this muscle. One of these twigs usually passes through the muscle to effect a communication with the glosso-pharyngeal close to the base of the skull. The nerve to the stylo-hyoid is a longer and more slender filament, which generally arises in common with the preceding, and sinks into the posterior aspect of this muscle. The temporo-facial division of the facial is pro- * Arnold's nerve emerges from the interval between the mastoid pro- cess and the auditory meatus, and after sending a branch to join the posterior auricular nerve, it ends in filaments for the integument on the posterior aspect of the ear.2i8 HEAD AND NECK. longed forwards through the parotid gland, and at once divides into numerous branches which radiate widely from each other, and stretch over an area extending from the ear behind to the margin of the upper lip below. Whilst within the substance of the parotid gland the temporo-facial nerve crosses the external carotid artery near its termination, and also the temporo-maxillary vein. It receives two, or it may be three, stout branches of communication from the auriculo-temporal nerve. The branches into which this portion of the facial trunk divides are classified according to the direction which they take into— 1. Temporal. 2. Malar. 3. Infra-orbital. The temporal branches, three or four in number, emerge from the upper border of the parotid, and are carried upwards over the zygomatic arch to the tem- poral region. Here they supply the attrahens aurem, the frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis, the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator superciln. They communicate with several branches of the fifth cranial nerve, more especially with the auriculo- temporal, the temporal branch of the orbital, and the supra-orbital. The malar branches run forwards upon the malar bone and end in filaments, which enter the outer and lower part of the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. Some of the twigs may be traced to the upper and lower eyelids. On the malar bone they communicateNERVES OF THE FACE. 219 with the malar branch of the orbital nerve, and in the eyelids they are connected with the various branches of the fifth nerve which are distributed to these structures. The infra-orbital branches are larger than either of the preceding, and they run horizontally forwards along the lower border of the malar bone, and under cover of the zygomaticus major to the infra-orbital region. Here they supply twigs to the muscles in this neighbourhood as well as to the muscles of the nose. They likewise communicate with the infra- orbital, nasal, and infra-trochlear nerves. With the infra-orbital nerve they form a complicated plexus {the infra-orbital plexus), under cover of the levator labii superioris. The cervicofacial division of the facial trunk proceeds forwards, with a slight inclination down- wards, in the substance of the parotid, and breaks up into three main branches, which are termed from the course which they take— 1. Buccal. 2. Supra-maxillary. 3. Infra-maxillary. In the parotid gland the cervico-facial division crosses the external carotid artery and receives several communicating twigs from the great auricular nerve. The buccal branch runs forwards upon the bucci- nator muscle to the angle of the mouth, where it ends in filaments for the orbicularis oris. It supplies the220 HEAD AND NECK. buccinator muscle, and forms, with the long buccal branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, a plexus around the facial vein. The supra-maxillary branch proceeds forwards upon the lower jaw to reach the muscles in connection with the lower lip. Under cover of the depressor anguli oris it communicates with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve. The infra-maxillary branch has already been examined in the dissection of the neck (p. 107). Sensory Branches to the Face from the Fifth Nerve.—The branches which come from the ophthal- mic division of the fifth nerve may first be studied. Of these two go to the skin of the forehead and scalp—viz., the supra-orbital and the supra-trochlear ; two, to the eyelids—viz, the palpebral branch of the lachrymal and the infra-trochlear ; and one, the nasal, to the skin of the nose. The supra - orbital and the supra - trochlear have already been dissected in the scalp (p. 6). They should now be followed downwards to the point where they turn round the orbital arch of the frontal bone. This can be done by cutting through the frontal belly of the occipito-frontalis and the orbicu- laris palpebrarum under cover of which they pass upwards. The supra-orbital quits the orbit by the supra-orbital notch or foramen, and the supra- trochlear at a point internal to this. Both nerves give twigs downwards to the skin and conjunctiva of the upper eyelid.NERVES OF THE FACE. 221 The palpebral or terminal branch of the lachrymal appears in the upper eyelid above the outer canthus where it pierces the superior palpebral ligament, and gives filaments to skin and conjunctiva. The infra-trochlear nerve will be found above the tendo oculi and the inner canthus. The twigs into which it divides communicate with the facial and supply the lachrymal sac, the conjunctiva, and the skin of the eyelids, and the root of the nose. The nasal nerve reaches the face on the side of the nose. To expose it, divide the compressor naris, and it will be found appearing between the lower margin of the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage. It gives branches to the integument of the nose and communicates with the facial nerve. It can be traced downwards under cover of the compressor muscle to the tip of the nose. The branches of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve which appear on the face are three in number—viz., the temporal branch of the orbital nerve, which has been already studied * (p. 9); the malar branch of the orbital nerve; and the infra- orbital. The malar nerve {ramus subcutaneus malce) is an exceedingly minute twig which emerges on the face through a minute foramen on the outer surface of the malar bone, a short distance behind the external * If the finger be carried downwards from the external angular process of the frontal bone along the posterior margin of the malar bone, a tubercle on the latter will be felt. This is the guide to the temporal branch of the orbital; it pierces the temporal fascia immediately behind it.222 HEAD AND NECK. margin of the orbit. To expose it the orbicularis palpebrarum must be carefully raised from the bone in an upward direction. The infra-orbital is the terminal part of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. It is a large branch which issues from the infra-orbital foramen under cover of the levator labii superiors It forms, with the facial nerve, a dense plexus, and distributes palpebral, nasal, and labial branches. The palpebral twigs turn upwards to supply the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid ; the nasal branches incline inwards upon the side of the nose; and the labial branches run downwards to end in the skin and mucous membrane of the upper lip. From the inferior maxillary division of the fifth, three nerves are furnished to the face-viz., the auri- culotemporal, which has been described in p. 9 J the long buccal nerve ; and the mental nerve. The long buccal nerve will be found coming out from under cover of the anterior border of the masseter muscle Its branches communicate freely with the facial nerve around the facial vein, and supply the skin and the mucous membrane of the cheek. The latter pierce the buccinator muscle. The mental nerve is a large branch of the inferior dental, which appears through the mental foramen of the lower jaw under cover of the depressor anguli oris. It communicates with the facial, and supplies the mucous membrane of the lower hp, and the integument of the chin and lower hp. The mental foramen through which the nerve emerges,223 ARTERIES OF THE FACE. lies directly below the interval between the two bicuspid teeth.* Arteries of the Face.—There are two main channels concerned in conveying blood to the face— viz., (1.) the transverse facial artery, a branch of the superficial temporal, and already examined (p. 203); (2.) the facial artery, a branch of the external carotid. In addition to these a great number of smaller vessels appear on the face with the sensory branches of the fifth nerve. Those which accompany the branches of the ophthalmic division are derived from the ophthal- mic artery, whilst those associated with the branches of the superior and inferior maxillary divisions pro- ceed from the internal maxillary artery. Facial Artery.—The facial artery will frequently be found smaller than usual. In such a case its deficiency is compensated for by an increase in the size of the transverse facial, or of some of the other vessels which appear on the face. The course of the facial artery in the neck has already been noted (p. 184). It enters the face by passing on to the lower jaw immediately in front of the masseter muscle. It then takes a very tortuous course forwards and upwards to a point a short dis- tance behind the angle of the mouth; from this it * If a line be drawn from the supra-orbital notch to the interval between the two lower bicuspid teeth, and from that onwards to the base of the lower jaw, it will pass over or close to the infra-orbital and mental foramina. This line therefore can be used as a guide in searching for these nerves.224 HEAD AND NECK. ascends to the inner canthus of the eye, and much reduced in size by the numerous branches it has given off, it terminates by anastomosing with a twig from the ophthalmic artery. Throughout its whole length it is comparatively superficial. It is true that it is placed somewhat deeply in the fat of the cheek, but the only muscles which cover it are, from below upwards: the platysma, the risorius, and the zygom- atics major; but it is not uncommon to see its terminal twig embedded in the midst of the fibres of the levator labii superioris alseque nasi. The parts upon which it rests as it extends through the face, will be seen to be—(i.) the lower jaw ; (2.) the buccinator; (3.) the levator anguli oris ; (4.) the levator labii supe- rioris ; and (5.) the levator labii superioris alseque nasi. The facial vein does not accompany it closely in the face, but lies, above the level of the lower jaw, at some distance behind it. Several branches of the facial nerve cross it. The branches which it gives off are very numerous. Some of inconsiderable size pass backwards, and are distributed to parts in the buccal masseteric and malar regions, and anastomose with the transverse facial, the buccal, and the infra-orbital arteries. Others proceed forwards, and being of larger size, they receive special designations. They are :— (1.) Inferior labial. (2.) Inferior coronary. (3.) Superior coronary. (4.) Lateral nasal. (5.) Angular. The inferior labial arises immediately above the base of the lower jaw, and is carried forwards under225 ARTERIES OF THE FACE. cover of the depressor anguli oris to supply the parts in connection with the chin and lower lip. It anastomoses with the mental, the terminal branch of the submental and the inferior coronary arteries. It is also connected with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side. The inferior coronary takes origin opposite the angle of the mouth, and runs inwards in the lower lip near its free margin between the mucous mem- brane and the labial part of the orbicularis oris. In a well injected subject it will be seen shining through the mucous membrane when the lip is everted. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the inferior labial. The superior coronary takes origin under cover of the zygomaticus major, and is related to the upper lip in the same manner that the inferior coronary is related to the lower lip. It is generally of larger size, and this on account of two reasons—viz., (1.) because it is the sole branch of supply to the upper lip ; and (2.) because it undertakes in a measure the supply of the lower part of the nose. The branch which it gives off for this latter purpose is called the septal artery; it runs along the lower border of the nasal septum and distributes twigs as far as the tip of the nose. The lateral nasal artery is a branch which is given to the side of the nose, and as a rule passes forwards under cover of the levator labii superioris ala^que nasi. The angular artery is the name that is applied to the terminal part of the facial artery. PART III. q226 HEAD AND NECK. Facial Vein.—The facial vein begins at the inner canthus of the eye, in a well marked venous radicle called the angular vein, which is formed by tribu- taries coming from the forehead, the upper eyelid and the root of the nose (p. II). The course which the facial vein takes is not nearly so tortuous as that of the corresponding artery; it lies behind the artery and is separated from it by a considerable interval. At the base of the lower jaw the two vessels come together. Numerous tributaries join the facial vein as it courses through the face and a large branch called the deep facial connects it with the pterygoid plexus of veins. The Auricle or Pinna.—Before dissecting the auricle, it is well to learn the names of its various parts, and note the position which they hold m relation to each other. The concha is the wide and deep fossa which leads into the external meatus; the anti-helix is the prominence which bounds this posteriorly ; the helix is the folded or incurved margin of the pinna; and the lobule is its soft dependent part. A small prominence in front of the meatus, and projecting backwards so as to overshadow it, is termed the tragus, whilst a similar eminence behind and below the meatus receives the name of the anti-tragus. But it will be noted that the upper end of the anti-helix bifurcates, and in this way two fossae are marked off from each other; one—the fossa of the helix, or scaphoid fossa,-is placed behind the anti-helix, and227 THE AURICLE OR PINNA. the other—the fossa of the anti-helix, or triangular fossa,—is situated between the two diverging and terminal limbs of the anti-helix. The pinna may now be dissected. It consists of a thin plate of yellow fibro-cartilage, covered by integu- ment. It is fixed in position by certain ligaments, and possesses two sets of feeble muscles—viz., one group termed extrinsic, passing to the cartilage from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis and the mastoid process, and a second group, in con- nection with the cartilage alone, and therefore called intrinsic. Ligaments, . . i Anterior \ Posterior. {jA.tt 1*3. It g n s "\ Extrinsic Muscles, J Attollens.' lAlready examined, ( Retrahens. ) pa&e 5- Intrinsic Muscles, f Musculus helicis major, n Upon the Musculus helicis minor. / outer face Tragicus. j ofthecar- Anti-tragicus. ) tilage. Transversus. ) Upon the cranial face Obliquus. J of the cartilage. The skin should be carefully removed from the entire extent of the external auricle. Particular care must be taken over the regions where the intrinsic ' muscles are placed. The auricular cartilage extends throughout the entire pinna, with the exception of the lobule and the portion between the tragus and the helix. These portions are composed merely of integu-228 HEAD AND NECK. ment, fatty tissue, and condensed connective tissue. The shape of the cartilage corresponds with that of the pinna itself. It shows the same elevations and depressions, and by its elasticity it serves to maintain the form of this structure. But it also enters into the formation of the outer portion of the external auditory meatus. By its inner margin this part of the cartilage is firmly fixed by fibrous tissue to the rough outer edge of the auditory process of the temporal bone, and it is deficient above and in front. Here the tube of the meatus is completed by tough fibrous membrane, which stretches between the tragus and the commencement of the helix. In a successful dissection of the cartilage of the pinna, two other points will attract the attention of the student. The first is a deep slit, which passes upwards so as to separate the lower part of the cartilage of the helix from the cartilage of the anti- tragus ; the second is a sharp spur of cartilage which projects forward from the helix at the level of the upper margin of the zygoma. This is termed the process of the helix, or spina helicis. The ligaments of the auricle are two in number. The anterior auricular ligament stretches from the process of the helix to the root of the zygomatic process. The posterior auricular ligament will be found under cover of the retrahens aurem. It is stronger than the preceding, and extends from a slight depression on the cranial aspect of the concha to the mastoid process. The intrinsic muscles of the pinna must be sought forTHE AURICLE OR PINNA. 229 with great care. As a rule they are all present—the helicus minor being that which is most frequently absent. The two muscles of the helix, the tragicus and the anti-tragicus, are placed upon the outer face of the cartilage. The transversus and the obliquus lie upon the cranial surface of the pinna. The musculus anti-tragicus is the best marked mem- ber of the outer group. It lies upon the outer surface of the anti-tragus, and its fibres pass obliquely upwards and backwards. Some fasciculi can be traced upon the lower projecting part of the helix. The musculus tragicus is a minute bundle of short vertical fibres, situated upon the outer surface of the tragus. When well developed a slender fasciculus may sometimes be observed to pass upwards from it to the fore part of the helix, where it gains insertion into the spine of the helix. The musculus helicis major is a well marked band, which springs from the spina helicis, and extends upwards upon the fore part of the helix, to be inserted into the skin which covers it. The musculus helicis minor is a minute bundle of fleshy fibres which is placed upon the helix behind and a little below the point from which the spina helicis juts forward. The musculus transversus auriculce is found upon the cranial aspect of the pinna. It is generally the most strongly developed muscle of the series, and it consists of fibres bridging across the hollow which, on this aspect of the auricle, corresponds to the antihelix. The musculus obliquus auriculce is composed of some •230 HEAD AND NECK. vertical fasciculi bridging across the depression which corresponds to the eminence of the lower limb of the antihelix. Eyelids—The stitches which hold the margins of the eyelids may be removed, but the tow which has been introduced beneath them may be allowed to remain in its place, in order to keep the parts tense during the dissection. The following strata will be exposed in each eyelid as the student dissects from the surface towards the conjunctiva lining its deep aspect :— Upper Lid. 1. Integument. 2. Palpebral part of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. 3. The tarsi and the palpe- bral ligament. 4. Levator palpebrse supe- riors. 5. Conjunctiva. Lower Lid. Integument. Palpebral part of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. The tarsi and the palpebral ligament. Conjunctiva. In addition to these structures, two ligaments named the internal and external tarsal ligaments will be noticed. They attach the tarsi to the inner and outer margins of the orbit. The dissection should be carried on in both eyelids at the same time. Integument and Orbicularis.—These strata231 EYELIDS. already been examined, and the skin has been reflected. The palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle in each lid forms a thin layer of arching muscular fibres loosely connected with the integument by some lax areolar tissue. A fasciculus, somewhat thicker than the others, lies along the free margin of each lid, close to the bases of the eyelashes. This is termed the muscuhis ciliaris. The entire orbicularis muscle may now be thrown inwards. This will show very clearly the origin of its muscular fibres at the inner margin of the orbit (p. 205). In raising the palpebral part great care must be taken to preserve the palpebral vessels and nerves, and at the same time to avoid injury to the palpebral ligament. The Tarsi and the Palpebral Ligaments.—The removal of the palpebral part of the orbicularis brings into view the palpebral ligaments and the tarsi. These lie in the same morphological plane, and they constitute the groundwork of the eyelids. The tarsi are two thin plates of condensed con- nective tissue placed one in each eyelid, so as to occupy an area immediately adjoining its free margin. They differ very materially from each other. The superior tarsal plate is much the larger of the two, and presents the figure of a half oval. Its deep surface is intimately connected with the subjacent conjunctiva, whilst its superficial surface is clothed by the orbicularis, and is in relation to the roots of the eyelashes. Its superior border is thin,232 HEAD AND NECK. convex, and continuous with the palpebral ligament; its inferior border is thickened and straight, and the integument adheres firmly to it. The inferior tarsal plate is a narrow strip which is similarly placed in the lower lid, and presents the same connections. At this stage the attention of the student cannot fail to be attracted by the Meibomian glands. To the naked eye they appear as closely placed parallel yellow granular-looking streaks, which run at right angles to .the free margins of the lids. They are more numerous and of greater length in the upper lid, and being lodged in furrows on the deep surface of the tarsal plates they are distinctly visible upon both aspects of these, even while the conjunctiva is in position. The ducts open upon the free margin of each lid behind the eyelashes, and by the aid of a magnifying glass they can be seen as round orifices placed in a single row. The mouths of these glands can be well demon- strated by squeezing the eyelid between the finger and thumb, when the greasy secretion of the glands will be pressed out. The palpebral ligaments are two broad membranous sheets which connect the tarsal plates to the upper and lower margins of the orbit. The superior liga- ment blends along the orbital arch with the peri- cranium, clothing the frontal bone, and with the periosteum lining the roof of the orbit, whilst inferiorly it is continuous with the thin upper margin of the tarsal plate. The inferior ligament has precisely233 EYELIDS. similar connections, being continuous on the one hand with the lower margin of the tarsal plate, and on the other with the periosteum of the face and the floor of the orbit Towards the inner canthus, where the eyelids are supported by the tendo oculi, the palpebral ligaments become thin and delicate. The tarsal ligaments should in the next place be examined. The palpebral ligaments fix the tarsi to the upper and lower margins of the orbit; the tarsal ligaments attach the tarsi to the outer and inner orbital margins. The external tarsal ligament is a narrow band of no great strength, which springs from the malar bone where this forms the outer margin of the orbit and proceeds inwards. At the outer canthus, it divides into two pieces, an upper and a lower, which are attached to the tarsal plates. This ligament is to be regarded as being merely a thickening of the palpebral ligaments where these become continuous with each other at the outer margin of the orbit. The internal tarsal ligament, or the tendo oculi, is a much more important structure. It has a double function to perform—viz., (1.) to serve as a tendon of origin for the orbicularis muscle, and (2.) to fix the tarsi to the inner margin of the orbit. To obtain a satisfactory view of it, the muscular fibres which spring from its upper and lower margins must be completely removed. The tendo oculi is a strong fibrous band which springs from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone immediately in front of the lachrymal groove; passing234 HEAD AND NECK. outwards it divides at the inner canthus into two diverging portions which are attached one upon each tarsal plate. The superficial surface of the tendo oculi is covered by integument alone, the deep surface crosses the lachrymal sac a short distance above its centre and gives [to it a fibrous expansion, which is attached behind to the posterior margin of the lachrymal groove. Levator Palpebrae Superioris.—The dissection of the lower lid is now completed, but in the case of the upper eyelid the dissector must proceed to detach carefully the superior palpebral ligament from the margin of the orbit, and throw it downwards towards the tarsal plate. This will expose the tendon of the levator palpebrae superioris—a muscle which arises within the cavity of the orbit, and is inserted into the superior tarsal plate. Vessels and Nerves of the Eyelids.—These ramify for the most part between the palpebral part of the orbicularis and the palpebral ligaments. At the inner canthus two arteries—the palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery-appear and run outwards in the upper and lower lids. At the outer margin of the orbit, one or more branches of the lachrymal artery pierce the palpebral ligament, and anastomose with the palpebral arteries. The veins run inwards towards the root of the nose, and open into the frontal and angular veins.LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. 235 The nerves are more numerous, and come from a number of different sources. The motor filaments for the palpebral part of the orbicularis are derived from the facial nerve, and enter the lids at the outer margin of the orbit. The sensory twigs for the upper lid come from the lachrymal, supra-orbital, supra- trochlear, and infra-trfichlear nerves, whilst the lower lid is supplied by branches from the infra-orbital nerve. Lachrymal Apparatus.—The following structures are included under this heading :— 1. The lachrymal gland and its ducts. 2. The lachrymal canals. 3. The lachrymal sac and the nasal duct. 4. The tensor tarsi muscle. The lachrymal gland lies within the orbit, in the hollow which marks the roof of this cavity, upon the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. The fore part of the gland, however, projects slightly beyond the orbital margin, and can be exposed at the outer side of the tendon of the levator palpebrae superioris, where it rests upon the conjunctiva of the upper eyelid, as it is reflected from the lid on to the eyeball. If the gland be now raised gently and the point of the knife carried carefully up and down through the connective tissue under it, numerous exceedingly delicate ducts, like fine threads will be seen proceed- ing from it. These are twelve or fourteen in number, and they open in a row upon the under surface of the conjunctiva of the upper lid, along the line of the236 HEAD AND NECK. fornix or the reflection of this membrane upon the anterior surface of the globe of the eye. The tears secreted by the lachrymal gland thus reach the under surface of the upper lid, and by the involuntary closure of the lids in winking they are washed over the exposed part of the eyeball and at Lachrymal Lachrymal canal Nasal due Opening into the inferior meatu Inferior turbinated bon •— Nasal septun Fig. 31. {From Gegenbaur's Anatomic des Menschcn.) the same time directed inwards towards the inner canthus. From the lacus lachrymalis they are drained away by the lachrymal canals. The lachrymal canals have in a measure been already examined. The dissector has noted the puncta lachrymalia, or the mouths of these minute237 THE TENSOR TARSI MUSCLE. canals, upon margins of the eyelids at the inner canthus, and he has endeavoured to determine the course pursued by each, by the introduction of a bristle. The upper canal at first ascends for a short distance, whilst the lower one descends, and then changing their direction suddenly, they both run inwards in relation to the upper and lower margins of the tendo oculi. They open close together into the outer and anterior aspect of the lachrymal sac at a point slightly above its centre. The upper canal is the smaller and longer of the two, and it inclines downwards as well as inwards to reach the lachrymal sac ; the lower canal is nearly horizontal in direction. The Lachrymal Sac is the blind upper and somewhat expanded part of the passage which con- ducts the tears to the nasal cavity. It is lodged in the deep lachrymal groove in the forepart of the inner wall of the orbit, and it is crossed in front a short distance above its middle by the tendo oculi, from the deep surface of which, as we have already noted, it receives a fibrous expansion. The lachry- mal canals open into it under cover of this ligament. The nasal duct is the term which is applied to the lower part of the same passage. It descends in the bony nasal canal, and opens into the forepart of the inferior meatus of the nose. In length it measures about half-an-inch. The Tensor Tarsi Muscle is a little muscular slip which can now be seen arising from the crestHEAD AND NECK. 238 of the lachrymal bone behind the lachrymal sac. Passing outwards and forwards towards the tarsi, it divides into two slips which blend with the ciliary muscles. In cases where the dissector is dealing with undissected eyelids, this muscle can be well Fig. 32. The inner wall of the orbit.—{From Luschka's Anatomie des MenscJten.) 1 Frontal bone. (2) Superior maxilla. (3) Os planum of the ethmoid. (4) Lachrymal bone. j5 The lachrymal sao covered by its fibrous lamella. (6) Teudo oculi or internal tarsal ligament (7) The upper and (8) the lower origin of the orbic\Uaris. (9) Tensor tarsi. (10) Origin of the obliquus inferior oculi. exposed from the deep aspect of the lids by dividing them vertically through the middle, and turning the inner portions upwards and downwards. The removal of the conjunctiva at the inner canthus will bring it into view.THE NASAL CARTILAGES. 239 The lachrymal sac, therefore, lies between the tendo oculi and the tensor tarsi, and although anatomists are not quite agreed as to the exact mode of action of this muscle, there can be little doubt that it must be looked upon as a dependency of the lachrymal apparatus. By its contraction it either aids the propulsion of the fluid through the lachrymal sac or it places the puncta in a more favourable position for the entrance of the tears. The Nasal Cartilages.—The cartilaginous part of the nose should now be examined by stripping off the compressor naris muscle and the remains of the integument. In addition to the septal cartilage which will be more appropriately studied in the dissection of the nasal cavity, two cartilaginous plates will be found upon each side. These are : 1. The upper lateral cartilage. 2. The cartilage of the aperture. The tipper lateral cartilage is a triangular plate which by its posterior margin is attached to the lower border of the nasal bone and -the upper part of the sharp margin of the nasal notch of the superior maxillary bone. Its anterior edge is in contact above with the corresponding part of its fellow of the oppo- site side, but below there is a slight interval between them in which is seen the margin of the nasal septal cartilage. The inferior border of the lateral cartilage is connected with the outer part of the cartilage of the aperture by some dense fibrous tissue.240 HEAD AND NECK. The cartilage of the aperture is bent upon itself and folded round the orifice of the nostril in front and laterally—posteriorly it is deficient. The outer part is of an oval form, and does not reach down to the margin of the nostril, nor backwards as far as the nasal notch of the superior maxilla. The interval between it and the bone is filled in by fibrous tissue in which one or two small islands of cartilage (the cartilagines minores vel sesamoideae) appear. In front, the bent part of cartilage comes into contact with its neighbour and forms the point of the nose. Internally, the inner part of the cartilage is in the form of a narrow strip which lies upon the lower part of the septal cartilage, and projects slightly below it so as to support the margin of the nostril upon this side. Its extremity is turned slightly outwards.TEMPORAL FASCIA. 241 THE TEMPORAL AND PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGIONS. Under this heading are grouped the parts which are dissected in the temporal and zygomatic fossae of the skull. These are :— (1.) Temporal fascia. (2.) Temporal muscle. (3.) Masseter muscle. (4.) Pterygoid muscles. (5.) Internal maxillary artery and its branches. (6.) Internal maxillary vein and the pterygoid plexus of veins. (7.) Temporo-maxillary articulation. (8.) Inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve and its branches. (9.) Chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. (10.) Otic ganglion. Temporal Fascia.—The structures which cover and lie superficial to this fascia have already been examined in the dissection of the scalp (p. 1). They are the superficial fascia, the thin lateral part of the epicranial aponeurosis, the attrahens, and attollens aurem, and in front the outer part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Ramifying upon it there are also numerous nerves and vessels. The nerves are the auriculotemporal, the temporal branches of the facial and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar : the PART Hi. R242 HEAD AND NECK. vessels are the superficial temporal artery dividing into its two terminal branches and its accompanying vein. Behind the ear some terminal twigs of the posterior auricular artery will also be seen ascending upon the posterior part of the fascia. All these parts should be carefully gone over a second time, as most of them must now be removed. Throw the temporal part of the orbicularis palpe- brarum forwards ; preserve the middle temporal artery, and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve, both of which pierce the fascia; turn downwards the other vessels and nerves, and remove what remains of the temporal part of the epicranial aponeurosis and of the two upper ear muscles. The temporal fascia is in this manner laid bare. The temporal fascia is a strong glistening aponeu- rosis which is stretched over the temporal fossa, and binds down the muscle of the same name. Its upper margin is attached to the upper of the two rough lines which constitute the temporal ridge on the lateral aspect of the skull, and in front to the temporal crest of the frontal bone. As it approaches the zygomatic arch, it splits into two laminae, which are separated from each other by a narrow interval filled with fat. These are attached to the outer and inner margins of the upper border of the zygomatic arch and to the posterior border of the malar bone They can readily be demonstrated by dividing the superficial layer close to its attachment and throwing it upwards ; by the handle of the knife the attachment of the deep layer can then be made out.243 MASSETER. In the upper part of its extent, the temporal fascia is comparatively thin, and the fibres of the subjacent muscle may be seen shining through it; below it is thicker, and owing to the fat which is inter- posed between its laminae, it becomes perfectly opaque. Masseter.—This muscle must now be thoroughly cleaned. To do this effectually, it will be necessary to divide the trunk of the facial nerve immediately beyond the point where it gives off the branches to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and throw it forwards with the various branches which spring from it towards the buccal region. The traizsverse facial artery must be likewise turned backwards. The dissector will recollect that he has previously removed from the surface of the masseter a forward prolon- gation of the parotid gland, the socia parotidis, Stenson's duct, twigs from the great auricular nerve, scattered fibres of the platysma, and the origin of the risorius muscle. The masseter is a massive quadrate muscle which lies upon the ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Its fibres are arranged in two sets—a superficial and a deep. The superficial part of the muscle arises from anterior two-thirds of the lower border of the zygo- matic arch, and its fasciculi are directed downwards and backwards ; the deep part springs from the whole length of the inner aspect of the zygomatic arch, and also from the posterior third of its lower border. Its fibres proceed downwards and forwards. The only244 HEAD AND NECK. portion of the deep part which appears on the surface is a small piece at the upper and back part of the muscle. The masseter is inserted into the outer surface of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw, over an area which extends downwards to the angle, and upwards so as to include the outer aspect of the coronoid process. Dissection.—A dissection must now be undertaken to display the temporal muscle, and at the same time expose the nerve and artery of supply to the masseter. Begin by dividing the temporal fascia along the upper border of the zygomatic arch. It may then be thrown upwards and completely removed. The middle temporal artery, and the temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve which pierce it must be dis- engaged from it and preserved. The zygomatic arch with the attached masseter must next be thrown down by dividing the bony arch in front and behind the origin of the muscle. First make use of the saw, and then complete the division by means of the bone- pliers The posterior cut should be made immediately in front of the glenoid fossa, and the head of the lower jaw • the anterior cut must extend obliquely through the malar bone, from the extreme anterior end of the upper margin of the arch, downwards and forwards to the point where the lower margin meets the malar process of the superior maxillary bone. In this way the whole of the masseteric origin is included between the incisions, and the arch with the attached muscle may be readily thrown downwards towards the angleTHE TEMPORAL MUSCLE. 245 of the lower jaw. The fleshy origin of the deep portion of the masseter from the inner surface of the zygomatic arch can now be seen, and frequently the dissection is complicated by a number of fibres from the temporal muscle, joining this part of the masseter. In turning the masseter down, great care must be taken not to injure its nerve and artery of supply. These pass outwards through the sigmoid notch, between the neck of the lower jaw and the posterior margin of the temporal muscle. When they are exposed and cleaned, they must be divided in order that the muscle may be fully reflected. On no account detach the masseter from the angle of the jaw. The temporal muscle may now be cleaned. The Temporal Muscle is fan-shaped. It arises from the entire extent of the temporal fossa by an origin reaching upwards as high as the lower of the two lines which constitute the temporal ridge, and downwards as low as the zygomatic crest of the great wing of the sphenoid. It also receives additional fibres from the deep surface of the temporal fascia which covers it. From this broad origin the fasciculi of the temporal muscle converge towards the coronoid process of the lower jaw; the anterior fibres descend vertically, the posterior fibres at first pursue a nearly horizontal course, whilst the inter- mediate fasciculi proceed with varying degrees of obliquity. As it approaches its insertion, a tendon is developed upon its superficial aspect, and this is inserted into, the summit and anterior edge of the246 HEAD AND NECK. coronoid process of the lower jaw; the deep part of the muscle remains fleshy, and gains attachment to the inner surface of the same bony prominence by an insertion which reaches as low down as the point where the anterior margin of the ramus merges into the body of the jaw. Dissection.—The next step in the dissection of this region consists in separating the coronoid process from the lower jaw, and turning it upwards with the attached temporal muscle. A very oblique cut is required ; it should extend from the centre of the sigmoid notch above, downwards, and forwards, to the point where the anterior margin of the ascending ramus meets the body of the lower jaw. First use the saw, and then complete the division with the bone pliers. The long buccal nerve and its companion artery are in a position of great danger during this dissection, and must be carefully guarded. They proceed downwards and forwards under cover of the lower part of the temporal muscle, and not unfre- quently the nerve will be found traversing its sub- stance. The coronoid process and the temporal muscle should be thrown well upwards, and the muscular fibres separated by the handle of the knife, from the bone forming the lower part of the temporal fossa. This will bring into view the deep temporal nerves and arteries as they ascend between the cranial wall and the muscle. This is the time also to follow the middle temporal artery (branch of the superficial temporal). It will be noticed to give branches to the247 THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE. muscle and extend upwards upon the squamous part of the temporal bone. The temporal branch of the temporo-malar nerve should likewise be traced to the point where it emerges from the minute aperture in the temporal surface of the malar bone. At this point it lies under cover of the temporal muscle. The pterygoid region may now be fully opened up by removing a portion of the ascending ramus of the lower jaw. Two horizontal cuts must be made ; one through the neck of the jaw, and the other immedi- ately above the level of the inferior dental foramen. To find the level of the latter, the handle of the forceps should be thrust forwards between the ramus and the subjacent soft parts, and carried downwards. Its progress will soon be arrested by the entrance of the inferior dental vessels and nerve into the foramen, and the lower border of the instrument will correspond with the line along which the bone should be cut. Both incisions should be made with the saw, until the outer table of the bone is cut through, and then the bone pliers may be employed to complete the division. Parts displayed by the above Dissection.— When the fat and areolar tissue are removed, the pterygoid muscles will come into view. The external pterygoid will be recognised from its extending hori- zontally backwards to the neck of the lower jaw ; the internal pterygoid bears very much the same relation to the inner aspect of the ascending ramus, as the masseter presents to its superficial surface. The great bloodvessel ,of the space — the internal maxillary—248 HEAD AND NECK. proceeds forwards upon the external pterygoid muscle. The nerves will also be observed to be placed in close relationship to the same muscle. Thus emerging from between the cranial wall and its upper border are the masseteric and the two deep temporal nerves; appearing from under cover of its lower border are the inferior dental and the lingual nerves ; whilst the anriculo- temporal nerve is related to it behind, and the long buccal in front. The former passes back- wards under cover of its insertion, and appears behind the temporo-maxillary joint, and the long buccal either pierces it or emerges from between its two heads of origin. The internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw will likewise be seen. It is the thin strip of membrane upon which the inferior dental nerve rests. The External Pterygoid Muscle arises in the zygomatic fossa by two heads, an upper and a lower. The upper head springs from the infra-temporal ridge and the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the lower head takes origin from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. As the muscle passes backwards it diminishes somewhat, and is inserted into the fore part of the neck of the lower jaw, and also into the anterior margin of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation. The Internal Pterygoid Muscle is also bicipital at its origin, its two heads embracing the origin of theTHE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 249 lower head of the external pterygoid. The superficial and smaller head of the internal pterygoid springs from the lower and back part of the tuberosity of the superior maxilla and also from the outer surface of the tuber- osity of the palate bone ; the deep head, hidden by the external pterygoid, arises in the pterygoid fossa from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and from the surface of the tuberosity of the palate bone, which appears between the two pterygoid plates. The two heads of the muscle unite at the lower margin of the fore part of the external pterygoid, and its fibres proceed downwards with an inclination backwards and outwards. They gain insertion into the angle of the lower jaw, and into the lower and back part of the inner aspect of the ascending ramus as high as the inferior dental foramen. The Internal Maxillary Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid artery, and takes origin within the substance of the parotid gland, immediately behind the neck of the lower jaw. From this it proceeds forwards to the fore part of the zygomatic fossa, where it disappears from view, by dipping between the two heads of origin of the external pterygoid muscle, and entering the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is customary to divide it into three parts for convenience in description. The first part runs horizontally forwards under cover of the neck of the lower jaw, and upon the internal lateral ligament. It lies along the lower border of the posterior part of the external pterygoid muscleHEAD AND NECK. 250 The second part extends obliquely upwards and for- wards upon the surface of the external pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the insertion of the temporal muscle into the coronoid process of the lower jaw. The third part dips between the two heads of the external pterygoid, and is contained in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Whilst this is the most frequent arrangement it is by no means uncommon to find the second part of the artery, lying in a deeper plane—viz., between the internal and external pterygoid muscles. In this case the vessel always takes a turn outwards between the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and appears on its surface before entering the spheno-maxillary fossa. The branches of the internal maxillary artery are classified into three groups according to the portion of the vessel from which they spring. One branch only of the third part—viz., the posterior dental artery, can be studied in this dissection. Those arising from the first and second parts are :—; From the First Part. From the Second Part. f Taking 1. Tympanic. t 3 1 . _ ) an up- 2. Middle meningeal. J 3- Small meningeal. / Taking a 4. Inferior dental. < downward ' course. 1. Masseteric, 2. Pterygoid. 3. Anterior and Posterior deep temporal. 4. Buccal.THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 25 I The meningeal and tympanic branches " proceed upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and therefore cannot be fully studied until this muscle is reflected. The inferior dental artery arises opposite the middle meningeal, and runs downwards upon the internal lateral ligament to enter the inferior dental foramen of the lower jaw. It is generally accompanied by two venae cornites, which lie one upon either side of it, and it is placed behind the inferior dental nerve. Just before entering the canal, the inferior dental artery gives off the slender mylo-hyoid branch, which is carried downwards and forwards with the corresponding nerve, upon the deep aspect of the lower jaw, to the digastric triangle of the neck. The branches from the second part are given off for the supply of the neighbouring muscles. The masseteric passes outwards behind the temporal muscle with the nerve of the same name, and has been seen entering the masseter muscle. The pterygoid branches are a few irregular twigs, which are given to the pterygoid muscles. The deep temporal arteries are two in number—anterior and posterior,—and pass upwards in the fore and hinder part of the temporal fossa, between the bony wall of the cranium and the muscle. They end in twigs' for the supply of the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery. The anterior deep temporal also communicates with the lachrymal artery by branches, which enter the orbit through foramina in the malar bone, and great wing of the sphenoid. The buccar-252 HEAD AND NECK. artery accompanies the long buccal nerve, and is distributed to the outer surface of the buccinator muscle. It anastomoses with the facial artery. The posterior dental branch of the third part of the internal maxillary artery descends upon the posterior aspect of the superior maxilla, and sends branches through the posterior dental foramina for the supply of the upper molar and bicuspid teeth. Some small twigs also go to the gum, whilst others find their way to the lining membrane of the antrum of Highmore. Pterygoid and Internal Maxillary Veins.—The veins in this region are very numerous, but they cannot be studied satisfactorily in an ordinary dissection. They are well seen, however, when injected, in horizontal sections of the frozen head made at the level of the external pterygoid muscle. They constitute a dense plexus, termed the pterygoidplexus around the external pterygoid muscle. Tributaries corresponding to the branches of the internal maxillary artery, open into this network, whilst the blood is led away from its back part by a short wide trunk, called the internal maxillary vein. This vessel accompanies the first part of the internal maxillary artery into the parotid gland, and joins the superficial temporal vein, behind the neck of the jaw, to form the temporo-maxillary trunk. The pterygoid venous plexus also establishes by various offsets, certain highly important connections. From its fore part the deep facial vein proceeds ; this extends forwards under cover of the lower jaw, andTEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. 253 the masseter, and unites with the facial vein. Entering its upper part are one or more minute emissary veins from the cavernous sinus. These gain the exterior of the cranium by passing through the foramen ovale. It likewise communicates with the ophthalmic vein through the spheno-maxillary fissure. Temporo-Maxillary Articulation—This joint must next be studied, in order that the external pterygoid muscle may be thrown forwards. In connection with it we find :— Ligaments Proper. Accessory Ligaments. 1. The external lateral. 1. Internal lateral. 2. The capsular. 2. Stylo-maxillary. An Inter-articular fibro-cartilage. The external lateral ligament is a strong band which is attached above to the outer surface of the posterior part of the zygomatic arch, and to the tubercle, at the root of the zygoma. It is composed of short parallel fibres, which proceed obliquely down- wards and backwards to be inserted into the outer and hinder part of the neck of the lower jaw. The capsule of the joint consists of a few scattered fibres, which support the synovial membranes upon the inner, anterior, and posterior aspects of the arti- culation. The internal lateral ligament is a long membranous band which springs from the spinous process of the254 HEAD AND NECK. sphenoid, and is attached below to the sharp project- ing inner margin of the inferior dental foramen. It is not in direct relationship with the joint. Above, it lies under cover of the external pterygoid muscle ; lower down, the internal maxillary artery intervenes between it and the neck of the lower jaw; whilst, still lower, the inferior dental vessels and nerve are interposed between it and the ramus of the jaw. The stylo-maxillary ligament has already been noticed. It is an aponeurotic band, derived from the deep cervical fascia, which is attached on the one hand to the styloid process, and on the other to the angle and posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, between the internal pterygoid and masseter muscles. An examination of these ligaments will at once show that very little is added to the strength of the joint by their presence. The security of the joint depends, therefore, not so much upon its ligaments as upon the strong muscles of mastication, which keep the head of the lower jaw in its place. The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is an oval plate, with its long axis directed transversely. It is inter- posed between the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity in such a manner as to divide the joint cavity into an upper and lower portion, each of which is provided with a separate synovial membrane. To expose the cartilage, the external lateral ligament must be removed. It will then be seen to be adapted to the two bony surfaces between which it lies. Above, it is concavo-convex, in correspondence with the em'inentia articularis and the glenoid fossa ; whilst,REFLECTION OF EXTERNAL PTERYGOID. 255 below, it is concave, and fits upon the upper aspect of the condyle of the jaw. In the centre, it is thin, and in some cases may be seen to be perforated; its circumference, more especially posteriorly, is thick. It should also be noted that it is but loosely attached by its periphery to the external lateral ligament, but that anteriorly the external pterygoid muscle is partly inserted into it. The synovial membrane, which lines the upper cavity of the joint, is of greater extent and looser than that which lines the lower compartment. This is owing to the articular surface of the temporal bone being of larger size than the condylar surface. Reflection of External Pterygoid.—The head of the lower jaw should now be disarticulated and thrown forwards with the attached external pterygoid muscle. It is well to detach the inter-articular fibro- cartilage with the head of the bone, in order that it may be more thoroughly examined. Great care must be taken not to injure the auriculo-temporal nerve, which passes backwards in close proximity to the deep aspect of the joint. When the disarticulation is complete, the muscle may be turned forwards by gently insinuating the head of the jaw under the internal maxillary artery. The reflection of the external pterygoid muscle brings into view, after a little dissection, the infra- maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve, emerging from the foramen ovale, and breaking up into its branches of distribution. The slender chorda tympani256 HEAD AND NECK. will likewise be found proceeding downwards and forwards to join the lingual nerve, and the middle meningeal, tympanic, and small meningeal arteries may be traced to the points where they leave the space. Middle and Small Meningeal and Tympanic Arteries.—The middle meningeal artery has already been seen arising from the first part of the internal maxillary artery. It proceeds upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and disappears from view by entering the foramen spinosum, and thus gaining the cranial cavity (p. 38). It will generally be observed to be embraced by the two heads of origin of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The small meningeal and tympanic arteries arise more frequently from the preceding vessel than from the trunk of the internal maxillary. The small meningeal inclines forwards and upwards, and enters the cranial cavity by passing through the foramen ovale ; the tympanic runs upwards and slightly back- wards, and reaches the tympanum by passing through the Glasserian fissure. In the tympanic cavity it anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. Inferior Maxillary Division of the Fifth Cranial Nerve.—The inferior maxillary nerve springs from the Gasserian ganglion, and enters the pterygo- maxillary region through the foramen ovale. It is composed of sensory fibres, but it is accompaniedINFRA-MAXILLARY DIVISION OF FIFTH NERVE. 257 through the foramen by the small motor root of the fifth nerve, and, a junction being effected between the two immediately after they gain the exterior of the cranium, a mixed nerve-trunk is the result. This nerve-trunk lies under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and after a very short course (not exceeding Fig. 33. Diagram of the infra-maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve. (a) SenBory root entering the Gasserian gan- glion. (6) Motor root. (c) Ophthalmic division. (&) Superior maxillary division. (c) Inferior maxillary division passing through the foramen ovale. (/) Nerve to the internal pterygoid. (ff) Anterior division. (h) Recurrent branch. (t) Middle meningeal artery. (ft) Foramen spinosum. (I) Auriralo temporal branch. (m) Chorda tympani. (71) Posterior division. (0) Lingual nerve. (p) Mylo-hyoid nerve. (r) Inferior dental nerve. two or three lines) it ends by dividing into two parts, named respectively the anterior and posterior divisions of the inferior maxillary nerve (Fig. 33). Before it divides, the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve gives off two branches—viz., (1.) the recurrent PART III. s258 HEAD AND NECK. nerve,^) and (2.) the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, (f) The recurrent nerve is a very slender twig which enters the cranium by accompanying the middle meningeal artery through the foramen spinosunu It is distributed to the lining membrane of the mastoid cells and to the great wing of the sphenoid. The internal pterygoid nerve will be found passing under cover of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid muscle close to its origin. Surrounding the root of this nerve is the otic ganglion. From the two terminal divisions of the inferior maxillary trunk the chief branches of distribution arise. The anterior division is much the smaller of the two, and is composed almost entirely of motor fibres derived from the motor root of the fifth nerve. The only sensory fibres which it contains are those which form the long buccal nerve. It gives off the following branches:— (3.) External pterygoid. (1.) Masseteric. (2.) Two deep temporal. (4.) Long buccal. The large posterior division is chiefly sensory. It contains only a very few fibres from the motor root, and these are prolonged into its inferior dental branch, and afterwards come off in the form of the mylo-hyoid nerve. The branches of the posterior division are :— (1.) Auriculo-temporal. (2.) Inferior dental. (3.) Lingual (or gustatory). The masseteric nerve is directed outwards above theINFRA-MAXILLARY DIVISION OF FIFTH NERVE. 259 external pterygoid muscle, and, passing through the sigmoid notch, behind the posterior border of the temporal muscle, it enters the hinder and upper part of the deep surface of the masseter. In the substance of this muscle it may be traced with the companion artery downwards and forwards to its lower and fore part Before reaching the masseter, it gives one or two twigs to the temporo-maxillary joint The deep temporal nerves are usually two in number, and are termed anterior and posterior according to the position they hold in relation to the temporal fossa. The posterior nerve is the smaller of the two, and frequently arises by a common root with the masset- eric. Both deep temporal nerves pass outwards above the external pterygoid and then turn upwards upon the bony wall of the cranium. After a short course they end in twigs which penetrate the substance of the temporal muscle. The long buccal nerve is the largest of the branches proceeding from the anterior division of the inferior maxillary nerve. It proceeds outwards between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle and then runs downwards and forwards under cover of the temporal muscle, and also of the anterior border of the masseter, to reach the outer surface of the buccinator. Here it has been seen to form with branches of the facial nerve the buccal plexus, and to be distributed to the mucous membrane and skin of the cheek, p. 222. The long buccal is a sensory nerve, and all the sensory fibres 'in the anterior division of the inferior260 HEAD AND NECK. maxillary nerve enter into its composition. A few motor fibres, however, are also prolonged into it; these come off from it in two branches—viz., (i.) in the nerve to the external pterygoid, which as a rule arises in common with the long buccal and at once sinks into the deep surface of this muscle ; and (2.) in a third twig of supply to the temporal muscle. This temporal branch springs from the long buccal after it has reached the outer surface of the external ptery- goid, and proceeds upwards to supply the fore part of the temporal muscle. In some cases the long buccal nerve may be observed to pierce the temporal muscle instead of passing under cover of it. The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve, composed of sensory fibres, springs from the posterior division of the inferior maxillary by two roots. These pass backwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle and embrace the middle meningeal artery. Beyond this vessel they unite, and the nerve is con- tinued backwards under cover of the neck of the lower jaw, immediately below the temporo-maxillary joint. Gaining the interval between the ear and jaw it turns upwards in relation to the deep surface of the parotid gland, and crosses the zygoma in company with the superficial temporal artery. Its further course has already been examined, pp. 9, 200. The following branches proceed from it:—(1.) one or two strong branches of communication to the temporo- facial nerve ; (2.) a few slender filaments which enter the posterior aspect of the temporo-maxillary joint;THE INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. 261 (3.) some twigs to the parotid gland ; (4.) terminal filaments to the skin over the temporal region and summit of the head (p. 9); (5.) auricular branches. The auricular branches are usually two to the skin lining the interior of the external auditory meatus and two to the integument over the upper and fore part of the pinna. The former gain the interior of the meatus by passing between the osseous and cartilaginous portions of the canal. The Inferior Dental Nerve is the largest branch of the inferior maxillary. Emerging from under cover of the external pterygoid muscle it passes downwards upon the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and enters the inferior dental foramen. The inferior dental artery runs downwards behind it, whilst the lingual nerve is in front of it and upon a somewhat deeper plane. The inferior dental is a sensory nerve, but a few motor fibres from the motor root are pro- longed downwards within its sheath as far as the dental foramen. At this point they come off as the slender mylo-hyoid nerve. The mylo-hyoid nerve, accompanied by the artery of the same name, pierces the internal lateral ligament and proceeds downwards and forwards in a groove upon the deep surface of the lower jaw to the sub- maxillary triangle. A narrow prolongation of the internal lateral ligament bridges over the groove and holds the nerve and vessel in position. In the sub- maxillary triangle the mylo-hyoid nerve has already been dissected. It appears upon the surface of the262 HEAD AND NECK. mylo-hyoid muscle, and, issuing from under cover of the superficial part of the submaxillary gland, it breaks up into numerous branches for the supply of two muscles—viz., (i.) the mylo-hyoid, and (2.) the an- terior belly of the digastric (p. 140). Lingual or Gustatory Nerve—This nerve is entirely sensory, and is covered in the first part of its course, like the other branches of the maxillary nerve; by the external pterygoid. Appearing at the lower border of this muscle, it proceeds downwards and for- wards between the internal pterygoid muscle and the lower jaw and enters the submaxillary region, where it will afterwards be traced to the tongue. It is placed in front and on a slightly deeper plane than the inferior dental nerve. In this region it gives off no branches, but under cover of the external pterygoid it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. Very frequently, also, a communicating twig passes between it and the inferior dental nerve. The Chorda Tympani is a slender nerve which arises from the facial in the aqueduct of Fallopius. It gains the pterygo-maxillary region by traversing the tympanic cavity and appearing through the inner part of the Glasserian fissure. It will now be seen to run downwards and forwards under cover of the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and unite with the lingual nerve near its origin. It is joined by a slender filament from the otic ganglion.STRUCTURES IN THE INFERIOR DENTAL CANAL. 263 Otic Ganglion.—As this ganglion lies under cover of the inferior maxillary trunk, it cannot be satisfac- torily studied at this stage. It is true that it may be exposed by tracing the nerve to the internal ptery- goid muscle upwards, when it will be seen to be developed in connection with the root of this branch. Its connections, however, can only be made out by dissecting from the inside, and it is well to defer its examination until this can be done. Structures within the Inferior Dental Canal.— The student should now endeavour, by means of a Hey's saw, a chisel, and the bone-pliers, to remove the outer table of the lower jaw, and thus open up the inferior dental canal. This canal is traversed by the inferior dental artery and nerve. These give off twigs which enter the fangs of the molar and bicuspid teeth, and they terminate by dividing into a mental and incisor branch. The mental artery and nerve appear on the face through the mental foramen, and have already been examined; the incisor artery and nerve are carried forwards to the symphysis and send up twigs to the canine and incisor teeth. The vessel anastomoses in the bone with the corresponding artery of the opposite side.264 HEAD AND NECK. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The superficial area of the submaxillary region has already been dissected, under the name of the anterior part of the digastric or submaxillary triangle (p. 139). It is now necessary to carry the dissection to a deeper plane, in order to expose a number of parts in connec- tion with the tongue and floor of the mouth. The structures thus displayed are :— (1.) Mylohyoid muscle. (2.) Submaxillary gland and its duct. (3.) Sublingual gland. (4.) Side of the tongue, and the mucous membrane of the mouth. Hyo-glossus. Stylo-glossus. Genio-hyoid. Genio-hyo-glossus. < Hypoglossal. (6.) Nerves, . < Lingual. I Glossopharyngeal. (7.) Submaxillary ganglion. (8.) Lingual artery and veins. (9.) Stylo-hyoid ligament. To prepare the part for dissection, it is necessary to throw back the head to its full extent, and turn it slightly to the opposite side. If the stuffing in the mouth has not been previously removed in the dissec- tion of the pterygo-maxillary region, it should be taken out now, and then the tip of the tongue should be seized with the forceps, and drawn forcibly forwards (5.) Muscles,SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 265 between the teeth, and retained in this position by stitching it to the nose. In dissecting towards the mesial plane, three mus- cular strata are encountered—viz., the mylo-hyoid, the hyo-glossus, the genio-hyo-glossus. In the inter- vals between these, certain highly important parts will be exposed. Begin with the first muscular stratum. Mylo-hyoid.—This muscle, as we have previously seen, forms the fore part of the floor of the digastric triangle. To bring it fully into view, therefore, certain of the contents of this space must be displaced. Divide the facial artery at the point where it gains the lower jaw, and, disengaging it from the sub- maxillary gland, throw it downwards, along with its submental branch and the facial vein. Next, detach the anterior belly of the digastric from the jaw, and deal with it in the same manner. The mylo-hyoid nerve must also be cut, and the superficial part of the submaxillary gland turned backwards. The super- ficial surface of the mylo-hyoid is in this way com- pletely exposed, and its fibres should be cleaned and its attachments made out. The mylo-hyoid is a thin sheet of muscular fibres, which arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge upon the deep surface of the body of the lower jaw by an origin which extends from the last molar tooth behind to the symphysis in front. Its fibres are directed down- wards, inwards, and backwards, and present two different modes of insertion. The posterior fibres areHEAD AND NECK. 266 inserted into body of the hyoid bone ; these, however, form a comparatively small part of the muscle. The greater number of the fibres are inserted into a median raphe, which extends between the symphysis of the lower jaw and the body of the hyoid bone. The two mylo-hyoid muscles, therefore, in front of the hyoid bone stretch across from one side of the body of the jaw to the other, and constitute a floor for the anterior part of the mouth. This floor is frequently termed the diaphragma oris. The mylo-hyoid muscle is supplied by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. Dissection.—The mylo-hyoid muscle must now be reflected, in order that the parts subjacent to it may be brought into view. As these parts lie in a great measure under shelter of the lower jaw, it is ad- vantageous to make at the same time a section of this bone, in order that it may be turned upwards. Carefully divide the fibres of the mylo-hyoid close to the ridge from which it arises. A very small piece may be left attached to the lower jaw to serve as a landmark in the future dissection. This must be done very cautiously, else the mucous membrane of the mouth will be injured. When detached from the jaw, the muscle must next be separated from the median raphe, and then it can be thrown down over the hyoid bone. The lower jaw should next be divided, by means of the saw and bone-pliers, a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the symphysis. When the section is completed, the lower margin of267 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. the jaw should be gently tilted upwards, and some means taken to retain the loose piece of the bone in this position. Under no pretence whatever should it be removed, and great care must be taken to preserve intact the mucous membrane of the mouth passing to the deep surface of the gum. Parts Exposed by the Reflection of the Mylo-Hyoid.—The side of the tongue is now brought into view, with a number of structures in connection with it. First note the mucous membrane stretching from the tongue to the gum of the lower jaw; then identify the various muscles. The hyo- glossus, a portion of which was previously visible behind the mylo-hyoid, is fully exposed. It is a square sheet of fleshy fibres which extends from the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue. Mark well its position, because all the structures in this region have a more or less intimate relationship to it. Thus behind it, will be recognised the stylo-glossns muscle, and in front of it, the genio-hyo-glossus and the genio-hyoid. The last muscle occupies the fore part of the region, whilst the anterior part of the genio-hyo-glossus is seen in the interval between it and the hyo-glossus. Upon the surface of the hyo-glossus, the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, the deep portion of the sub- maxillary gland with its duct, and the submaxillary ganglion are to be dissected. The lingual nerve occupies the highest level, and passes forward upon the muscle near its insertion into the tongue. The hypoglossal, accompanied by the ranine vein, crosses it close toHEAD AND NECK. 268 the hyoid bone, whilst the gland and duct occupy an intermediate place. Although the submaxillary ganglion is very minute, its relations are so precise that it is very easily found. By seizing hold of the lingual nerve and dissecting carefully with the point of the knife in the interval between it and the deep part of the submaxillary gland, the ganglion will be exposed and its roots and branches of distribution made out. Upon the genio-hyo-glossus in front of the hyo- glossus the dissector will note the sublingual gland with its artery of supply. Certain structures will also be seen passing under cover of the posterior margin of the hyo-glossus muscle ; these are:— (i.) the glosso- pharyngeal nerve immediately below the stylo-glossus muscle; (2.) The stylo-hyoid ligament, a little lower down ; and (3.) the lingual artery, close to the hyoid bone. The Hyo-Glossus is a quadrate flat muscle which arises from the whole length of the greater cornu, and also from the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres pass upwards to the posterior part of the side of the tongue where they ascend under cover of the stylo- glossus. The hyo-glossus is supplied by the hypo- glossal nerve. The Stylo-Glossus is an elongated fleshy slip which takes origin from the anterior aspect of its styloid process near its tip. Passing downwards and forwards its fibres my be traced upon the side of the tongue as far as the tip. They decussate with theTHE GENIOHYOID. 269 fasciculi of the preceding muscle. The nerve of supply to the stylo-glossus comes from the hypo- glossal. The Genio-Hyoid is placed close to the mesial plane, and in contact with its fellow of the opposite side. It is a short muscle which arises from the lower of the two genial tubercles upon the posterior surface of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and extends down- wards and backwards to gain insertion into the fore aspect of the body of the hyoid bone. The hypo- glossal gives the nerve of supply to the genio-hyoid. Submaxillary Gland and Wharton's Duct. —The submaxillary gland consists of a superficial and a deep portion, the superficial or main part has already been noted as the most conspicuous object in the digastric triangle. In size and shape it may be compared to a walnut, and it presents very definite relations. It is covered by skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia, and lies under shelter of the body of the lower jaw—a distinct depression in the bone corresponding to its upper and outer surface. Behind it is shut off from the parotid by the stylo- maxillary ligament, whilst in front it is limited by the anterior belly of the digastric. It rests upon the mylo-hyoid, whilst lodged in a deep groove in its substance is the facial artery. The deep part of the gland is a slender prolongation which is tucked round the posterior margin of the mylo-hyoid and comes to lie between it and the hyo-glossus.27O HEAD AND NECK. The duct of the submaxillary gland is termed Wharton's duct. It emerges from the main part of the gland and with the deep prolongation of gland substance it proceeds forwards upon the hyo-glossus muscle between the lingual nerve above and the hypoglossal nerve below. Reaching the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, it inclines slightly upwards and is crossed by the lingual nerve. Finally, it passes under cover of the sublingual gland, and gains the floor of the mouth. Here it opens by a small orifice placed on the summit of a papilla which lies close to the side of the frcenum linguae. The wall of Wharton's duct is much thinner than that of the parotid duct, and consequently, if a small opening be made in it the dissector will experience little difficulty in passing a fine probe or bristle along it into the mouth. Sublingual Gland.—The sublingual gland is the smallest of the three salivary glands. It has an elongated shape, and in length it measures about one inch and a-half. Its relations are very definite. Above, it is related to the forepart of the floor of the mouth, being separated from the cavity by the mucous membrane alone. Internally it rests upon the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, whilst, externally it is lodged in a fossa on the deep aspect of the lower jaw, immediately external to the symphysis. Below, it is supported by the mylo-hyoid muscle. Its anterior extremity reaches the mesial plane above the anterior border of the genio-hyo-glossus and is in contact with271 LINGUAL NERVE. its fellow of the opposite side. The duct of Wharton and the lingual nerve are prolonged forwards under cover of the sublingual gland. Numerous small ducts (the number varying from eight to twenty) proceed from the sublingual gland. These are called the ducts of Rivini, and they have two modes of termination. Some open into Wharton's duct; others open directly into the mouth by piercing the mucous membrane which overlies the gland. One of the latter, larger than the others, receives the special name of the duct of Bartholin, and this opens into the mouth close to the orifice of the duct of Wharton. Lingual Nerve.—In the dissection of the pterygo- maxillary region, the lingual nerve has been seen passing downwards between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal pterygoid muscle. It now inclines forwards to reach the side of the tongue, and, passing over the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, it lies below the last molar tooth between the mucous membrane and the body of the lower jaw. At this point it is in. danger of being hurt by the clumsy extraction of one of the lower molars, and here also it may be divided by the surgeon, from the inside of the mouth. In its further course the nerve keeps close to the side of the tongue, crossing the upper part of the hyo-glossus, and, beyond this, the duct of Wharton. It can be traced as far as the tip of the tongue, and it is placed immediately under cover of the mucous membrane of the mouth.272 HEAD AND NECK. The branches which proceed from the lingual nerve in this region are of two kinds-(i-) twigs of com- munication ; (2.) branches of distribution. ,(i.) Two or more to the submaxil- lary ganglion. (2.) One or two which descend Twigs of alon§ the anterior border of Communication. the hyo-glossus muscle to unite with corresponding branches from the hypo- 1 glossal nerve, /(i.) Slender filaments to the mucous I membrane of the mouth and Branches j gums> of \ (2.) A few twigs to the sublingual Distribution. gland \ (3.) Branches to the tongue. The lingual branches pierce the substance of the tongue, and then incline upwards to supply the mucous membrane with the conical and fungiform papillae over the anterior two-thirds of this organ. Submaxillary Ganglion. - This is a minute ganglion which will be found lying upon the upper part of the hyo-glossus muscle in the interval between the lingual nerve and the deep part of the sub- maxillary gland, under cover of the mylo-hyoid muscle In size it is not larger than the head of a large pin, and, when freed from the connective tissue surrounding both it and its branches, it will be seen to be suspended from the lingual nerve by two short, well-marked branches, which enter its upper border,273 THE HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. and are separated by a distinct interval. Of these, the posterior connecting twig is frequently in the form of two or three filaments, which convey to the ganglion its sensory and motor roots, whilst the anterior con- necting branch must be looked upon as a twig given by the ganglion to the lingual nerve. In common with the other ganglia developed in connection with the branches of the fifth cranial nerve, this ganglion has three roots—viz., (1.) a sensory root from the inferior maxillary nerve; (2.) a motor root from the chorda tympani; and (3.) a sympathetic root from the plexus around the facial artery. From its lower border several minute twigs proceed, and these are distributed—(1.) to the submaxillary gland ; (2.) to Wharton's duct; and (3.) to the mucous membrane of the mouth. The Hypoglossal Nerve has been traced in the dissection of the anterior triangle to the point where it disappears under cover of the mylo-hyoid muscle (p. 149). It is now seen passing forwards upon the hyo-glossus above the hyoid bone, and below the level of the deep part of the submaxillary gland. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it gains the surface of the genio-hyo-glossus, into the substance of which it sinks. Its further course is along the lower surface of the tongue, close to its fellow of the opposite side. Whilst the lingual nerve, therefore, clings to the side of the tongue, the hypoglossal is placed upon its under aspect, close to the mesial plane. Upon the hyo-glossus muscle it is accompanied by one of the part in. t274 HEAD AND NECK. lingual veins, frequently termed the satellite vein of the hypoglossal nerve. The branches which spring from the hypoglossal nerve in this region are very numerous, and are entirely distributed to muscles. It supplies—(i.) the stylo-glossus ; (2.) the hyo-glossus; (3.) the genio- hyo-glossus; (4.) the genio-hyoid ; and (5.) the in- trinsic muscles of the tongue. In addition, it communicates freely with the lingual nerve. The more apparent of these connections the student has already observed to take place in the form of one or more loops in relation to the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. Other communications with the same nerve are effected in the substance of the tongue. Reflection of the Hyo-glossus.—The hyo-glossus should now be carefully detached from the hyoid bone, and thrown upwards towards the tongue. In doing this there is no need to divide the structures which lie upon its surface. By the reflection of this muscle the following structures will be fully displayed—(1.) the second and third stage of the lingual artery, with its dorsalis linguse branch and the veins which accompany it; (2.) the posterior part of the genio-hyo-glossus; (3.') the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx ; and (4.) the attachment of the stylo-hyoid ligament. •The Genio-hyo-Glossus is a flat triangular muscle, the inner surface of which is in contact in theLINGUAL ARTERY. 275 mesial plane with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises by a short pointed tendon from the upper of the two genial tubercles which project from the posterior aspect of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and from this, its fleshy fasciculi spread out in a fan- shaped manner. By far the greater part of the muscle is inserted into the tongue by an insertion which extends from the tip backwards throughout the whole length of the organ ; below the tongue, a few fibres reach the side of the pharynx, whilst the remainder are inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. As we have already noted, the genio-hyo- glossus is supplied by twigs from the hypo-glossal nerve. Lingual Artery.—As the lingual artery is now fully exposed it can be conveniently studied at this stage. It springs from the fore part of the external carotid, and it is customary to describe it in three parts—viz., (1.) a part extending from its origin to the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle; (2.) a part lying in relation to the upper border of the hyoid bone ; (3.) a portion ascending under cover of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle to the under surface of the tongue, where it ends in a terminal branch called the ranine artery. The first part has been fully examined in a previous dissection. It lies in the carotid triangle of the neck, and is therefore comparatively superficial. It is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve the tendon of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid. The second part proceeds276 HEAD AND NECK. forwards along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and is covered by the hyo- glossus muscle which intervenes between it and the hypo-glossal nerve. The nerve, however, is placed at a slightly higher level. The deep or internal relations of the artery in this stage of its course are the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio- hyo-glossus. The third part ascends almost vertically upon the genio-hyo-glossus. It is overlapped by the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, and ends when it reaches the under surface of the tongue by turning forwards into its terminal or ranine branch. The branches of the lingual artery are :— 1. Hyoid from the first part (p. 183). 2. Dorsalis linguae from the second part. 3. Sublingual from the third part. 4. The ranine or terminal branch. The dorsalis Ungues is generally represented by two or more well-marked branches which pass upwards under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle to end in twigs to the mucous membrane, covering the back part of the dorsum of the tongue. Some twigs are also supplied to the muscular substance of the organ, and a few may be traced backwards into the tonsil. The sublingual artery emerges from under cover of the anterior border of the hyo-glossus and then ascends upon the genio-hyo-glossus to reach the sublingual gland which it supplies. It also gives branches to the surrounding muscles and anastomoses with its277 LINGUAL VEINS. fellow of the opposite side and with the submental branch of the facial artery. The ranine artery runs forwards upon the inferior aspect of the tongue as far as the tip. It can easily be exposed by dividing the mucous membrane along its course, when it will be seen to lie close to the attachment of the frcenum to the tongue, and to be continued forwards in the interval between the genio- hyo-glossus and the inferior lingualis muscle. Its course is tortuous to allow of the protrusion or elonga- tion of the organ, and it gives off numerous branches. Lingual Veins.—The lingual artery is accompanied by two small venae comites which lie with it under cover of the hyo-glossus j but the main vein of the tongue is termed the ranine or the satellite vein of the hypoglossal nerve, on account of its accompanying this nerve upon the superficial surface of the hyo- glossus. These veins receive tributaries corresponding more or less closely with the branches of the artery, and they open into the common facial vein, or perhaps directly into the internal jugular vein. The Stylohyoid Ligament is the last structure to be examined in this dissection. It is a fibrous cord which springs from the tip of the styloid process and passes downwards and forwards to be attached under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone. It is not uncommon to find it partially ossified ; in other cases it may assume a ruddy hue and contain muscular fibres.278 HEAD AND NECK. DEEP DISSECTION OF THE NECK. In the deep dissection of the neck the following structures are displayed :— (i.) The styloid process, with the three muscles which take origin from it. (2.) The internal carotid artery. (3.) The ascending pharyngeal artery. (4.) The tonsillitic and ascending palatine branches of the facial artery. (5.) The internal jugular vein. ( Glosso-pharyngeal. (6.) The three divisions of the J Vagus> eighth cranial nerve, . [ gpinal accesSory. (7.) The ninth, or hypoglossal, nerve. (8.) The cervical part of the sympathetic cord. (9.) The first loop of the cervical plexus. (10.) The rectus lateralis muscle. Before the dissection is commenced, the skull-cap, which, up to the present time, has been retained in position by the flaps of scalp stitched over it, should be removed. The floor of the cranium should then be cleansed by sponging it with spirit and carbolic solution. To expose the styloid process and its muscles it is necessary to turn aside the posterior belly of the digastric, and the external carotid artery. Detach the former from its origin, and throw it down- wards and forwards towards the hyoid bone. Its nerve of supply from the facial must also be cut, and if the filament which connects this branch with theTHE STYLO-PHARYNGEUS. glossopharyngeal nerve has not been previously seen (p. 217), it should now be carefully sought for. The external carotid artery may be divided immediately below the point where it divides into its two terminal branches. After cutting the occipital and posterior auricular arteries, it can be turned forwards out of the way. Of the parts in connection with the styloid process, the stylo-hyoid and stylo-glossus muscles and the stylo-hyoid ligament have been already fully examined; the stylo-pharyngeus alone remains to be described. In cleaning the fibres of this muscle, be very careful of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve which appears at its lower border, and gives to it its nerve of supply. The Stylo-pharyngeus is the longest of the three slender muscles which spring from the styloid process. It arises from its deep or inner surface close to its root, and extends downwards and forwards to gain the side of the pharynx. Here it disappears under cover of the upper border of the middle constrictor, and its fibres spread out to be inserted for the most part into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage ; a certain proportion, however, are lost in the wall of the pharynx. The stylo-pharyngeus muscle is supplied by a branch from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. Dissection.—Snip through the base of the styloid process with the bone-pliers, and throw it and its attached muscles downwards and forwards. TheHEAD AND NECK. 280 internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries may now be followed up to the base of the skull. The three divisions of the eighth nerve, the hypo- glossal nerve, and the superior cervical ganglion, with their various connections and branches, must at the same time be dissected. This is an exceedingly diffi- cult dissection. A dense and tough fascia envelopes these structures, and a great amount of patience is •required to trace the branches of the nerves through it. One nerve—the pharyngeal branch of the vagus— which proceeds downwards and forwards upon the superficial or outer aspect of the internal carotid, is especially liable to injury, and must therefore be borne in mind from the very outset of the dissection. The internal laryngeal and the external laryngeal nerves have been previously displayed in the anterior triangle of the neck. These, if traced upwards, will lead to the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, which is carried downwards upon the deep aspect of the internal carotid artery. At the base of the skull, all the nerve-trunks will be found making their appear- ance close together in the interval between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery; whilst behind the vein, the rectus lateralis muscle and the first loop of the cervical plexus will be seen. Internal Carotid Artery.—The internal carotid artery is the channel through which blood is carried for the supply of the fore-part of the brain, the contents of the orbital cavity, and the appendages of the eye. Tt is one of the two terminal branches of the common28l INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. carotid, and commences, therefore, at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. From this point it proceeds upwards in the neck in a vertical direction, until it reaches the base of the skull ; here it disappears from view by entering the carotid canal of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, through which it reaches the interior of the cranium. The internal carotid artery can therefore be very appropri- ately divided into three parts—viz., (1.) a cervical ; (2.) a petrous ; and (3.) an intra-cranial. The cervical part alone comes under the notice of the student in the present dissection. In the first instance, the internal carotid artery is placed within the carotid triangle, and is, therefore, comparatively superficial. It is covered by the integ- ument, platysma, and fascia, and is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid muscle. As it proceeds upwards, it gradually sinks deeply, until it comes to lie under cover of the entire mass of the parotid gland, the styloid process, the stylo-pharyngeus, the stylo-hyoid, and the posterior belly of the digastric. Three nerves and two arteries will also be noticed to cross the vessel, viz. :— (1.) The hypoglossal. (1.) The occipital artery. (2.) The glossopharyngeal. (2.) The posterior auri- (3.) The pharyngeal branch cluar artery- of the vagus. The relationship of the external carotid artery to the internal carotid is a varying one. At first the external carotid lies in front of it, but soon owing to282 HEAD AND NECK. its inclination backwards, it comes to lie directly superficial to the internal carotid. The following structures intervene between the two vessels :— (i.) Styloid process. (4.) Pharyngeal branch of (2.) Stylo-pharyngeus. vagus. (3.) Glosso-pharyngeal (5.) A portion of the parotid nerve. gland. Behind, the internal carotid rests upon the rectus capitis anticus major muscle, and is in contact with the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. To its outer side is the internal jugular vein ; and a prolongation upwards of the carotid sheath encloses the two vessels together with the pneumogastric nerve. On its inner aspect the internal carotid is related to the pharynx and the tonsil. At the same time it should be noted that the relationship to the tonsil is not so close as has generally been supposed. This has been pointed out by Braune, and will be seen in Fig. 28, which represents a section through the frozen head at the level of the upper part of the tonsil. Before leaving this vessel, note that at the base of the skull four nerves appear in the interval between it and the internal jugular vein j these are the glosso- pharyngeal, the pneumogastric, the hypoglossal, and the spinal accessory. Ascending Pharyngeal Artery.—The origin of this vessel from the external carotid has already been observed (p. 188). It proceeds vertically upwards toINFERIOR PALATINE. 283 the base of the skull, where it ends by dividing into minute meningeal twigs. Its relations are very simple. It is placed between the internal carotid artery and the wall of the pharynx, and this position it holds throughout its entire course. The following branches will be recognised as springing from the ascending pharyngeal :— (1.) Pharyngeal. (2.) Prevertebral. (3.) Meningeal. The pharyngeal branches supply the pharynx, and the lower members of the series anastomose with the superior thyroid artery. Higher up, a larger palatine branch distributes twigs to the Eustachian tube, the soft palate, and the tonsil. The prevertebral branches are small twigs which are given to the prevertebral muscles, and anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. The meningeal twigs enter the cranium through three openings—viz., the foramen lacerum medium, the jugular foramen, and the anterior condyloid foramen (p. 39). Inferior Palatine and Tonsillitic Arteries.—At this stage the dissector should again examine these vessels—the first branches which are given off by the facial artery. They have already been described in p. 185, but their relations as they ascend in the neck can now be more satisfactorily studied. The size of the inferior palatine is very variable, and284 HEAD AND NECK. depends very much upon that of the palatine branch or the ascending pharyngeal. Internal Jugular Vein.—The internal jugular vein is the largest venous channel of the neck. It is directly continuous with the lateral sinus' of the cranial cavity, and it enters the neck through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen. From this it proceeds downwards, until it reaches the posterior aspect of the inner end of the clavicle, where it joins the subclavian vein to form the innominate or brachio-cephalic vein. Its commencement in the jugular foramen shows a slight dilatation termed the bulb, the lumen of which remains at all times patent owing to the connection of its walls to the margins of the foramen. By passing a probe from the lateral sinus into the internal jugular vein the continuity of the two channels can be easily demonstrated. The relations which the internal jugular vein presents in the neck can be summed up in a very few words. At the base of the skull it lies behind the internal carotid . artery, and rests upon the rectus lateralis muscle. Very soon, however, it changes its relationship to the internal carotid, and comes to lie upon its outer side. This position it maintains until it reaches the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Below this level it is continued downwards upon the outer side of the common carotid artery. Throughout its whole length it is included within a sheath of fascia common to it, the two arteries and the vagus nerve. Lastly at the root of the neck itsINTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 285 terminal part crosses the first portion of the sub- clavian artery. But there are some slight differences to be noted between the two veins of opposite sides. The right vein is usually considerably the larger of the two, and as they approach the root of the neck they both incline slightly to the right. From this it follows that the left vein is closely applied to the lower portion of the common carotid artery of that side, whilst the right vein is separated from its com- panion vessel by a narrow interval which presents a triangular figure. The base of this triangle is formed by the first part of the subclavian artery and it is bisected by the vagus nerve. . The tributaries which join the internal jugular vein have for the most part been previously studied. They are:— (1.) Inferior petrosal sinus (P- 37)- (2.) Pharyngeal veins. (3.) Lingual veins (p. 277.) (4.) Common facial vein (p. 186). (5.) Superior thyroid vein (p. 183). (6.) Middle thyroid vein (p. 190 and p. 177). (7.) Thoracic duct on the left side and the right lymphatic duct on the right side (p. 167). The inferior petrosal sinus leaves the cranial cavity by the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and joins the forepart of the internal jugular vein close to the base of the skull. By passing a probe from the interior of the skull through the sinus its connection with the vein can readily be made out.286 HEAD AND NECK. The pharyngeal tributariesjoin the internal jugular about the level of the hyoid bone. They come from a venous plexus which lies upon the side of the pharynx, and presents free communications above with the pterygoid plexus. The internal jugular vein should now be slit open. A short distance above its termination a single or a double flapped valve will be discovered. The vein should then be divided about two inches below its commencement and its upper part thrown upwards. This is done to enable the dissector to obtain a better view of the ninth cranial nerve emerging from the anterior condyloid foramen. Eighth Cranial Nerve.—The glossopharyngeal, the vagus or pneumo-gastric and the spinal accessory nerves, which constitute the three divisions of the eighth cranial nerve must, in the next place, be examined. They have, on a previous occasion, been seen leaving the cranial cavity through the middle compartment of the jugular fossa, in the interval between the commencement of the internal jugular vein behind and the inferior petrosal sinus in front (p. 31 and fig. 8-6 p. 35). It is well that the dissector should again examine the interior of the cranial cavity and refresh his memory as to the manner in which they enter this foramen. The glossopharyngeal occupies the foremost position, and it is cut off from the others by possessing a special and separate tube of dura mater. The spinal accessory is placed behind the vagus, and both are included within the sameGLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL. 287 sheath of dura mater. They therefore traverse the foramen in close contact with each other. Reaching the exterior of the skull the three nerves at first lie together with the ninth or hypoglossal nerve in the interval between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, but soon they choose different routes. The spinal accessory inclines backwards over or behind the internal jugular vein; the glossopharyngeal inclines forwards over the internal carotid ; whilst the vagus proceeds vertically downwards between these vessels. In an ordinary dissection it is impossible to follow out many of the minute twigs which take origin from these nerves in the region of the basis cranii. To do so it is necessary to possess a perfectly fresh part, which has been specially prepared by having the soft parts toughened with spirit and the bone softened by immersion in a weak solution of acid. Even then the dissection is a difficult one, although it should certainly be undertaken by the advanced student in the event of his being able to obtain a part for the purpose. In the following description of these nerves the account of the branches which can in all cases be traced is printed in large type, whilst that of those requiring special dissection is printed in small type. Glosso - pharyngeal. — The glosso - pharyngeal nerve inclines downwards and forwards and crosses the internal carotid artery superficially. It passes under cover of the styloid process and the stylo-288 HEAD AND NECK. pharyngeus muscle and at the lower border of the latter, it hooks round the muscle and then curves forwards upon its superficial surface to gain the base of the tongue. In the dissection of the submaxillary region, its terminal part was seen disappearing under cover of the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle ; here it ends in lingual branches. In the present dissection the following branches should be made out:— (i.) Communicating branch (3.) Pharyngeal. from the facial. (4>) Tonsillitic. (2.) Nerve to the stylo- pharyngeus. The communicating branch from the facial is a small butimportant twig. It springs from the nerve to the posterior belly of the digastric, and, as a rule, emerges from midst the fibres of this muscle to join the glosso-pharyngeal close to the lower part of the jugular foramen. By some anatomists this branch is considered to convey to the glosso-pharyngeal the motor fibres which it supplies to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. The stylo-pharyngeal nerve is a small twig which enters the muscle of the same name. The greater part of its fibres, however, are continued through the muscle to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The pharyngeal branches consist—(1.) of one or two small twigs which perforate the superior constrictor to reach the mucous membrane of the pharynx; and (2.) a larger nerve which comes off higher up and289 GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. joins the pharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the pharyngeal plexus. It frequently divides into two or more branches. The tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso- pharyngeal near the base of the tongue. They form a plexus over the tonsil termed the circulus tonsillaris, and give twigs to the mucous membrane of the isthmus faucium and the soft palate. The terminal or lingual branches will be followed in the dissection of the tongue. There are still other points in connection with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve which require mention. At the lower part of the jugular foramen two minute ganglia are formed upon its trunk, and from the lower of these certain minute branches are given off. The upper ganglion is called the jugular ganglion; the lower one is termed the petrous ga?iglion. The jugular ganglion is a minute ganglionic swelling, which only involves the lower fibres of the nerve trunk, and is placed in the upper part of the bony groove in which the nerve lies as it proceeds through the jugular foramen. The petrous ganglion is a larger swelling, which involves the entire nerve trunk, and lies at the opening of the jugular foramen between the inferior petrosal sinus (which intervenes between it and the anterior border of the foramen) and the vagus nerve invested by its fibrous sheath derived from the dura mater. Its length is not more than two or three lines. Three branches of communication enter or proceed from it. These connect it with—(1.) the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion; (2.) the auricular branch of the vagus; and (3.) the root-ganglion of the vagus. In addition to these twigs the tympanic nerve or the nerve of Jacobson takes origin from the petrous ganglion. Tympanic Nerve.—The ultimate destination of this nerve may be regarded as being the otic ganglion, but it takes a very circuitous route to gain this structure. It enters a minute foramen on the ridge which separates the jugular fossa from PART III. ' tt290 HEAD AND NECK. the carotid foramen on the under surface of the petrous bone, and it is conducted by a narrow canal to the tympanic cavity. It traverses the inner wall of this chamber, grooving the pro- montory. Having gained the anterior part of the tympanum, rente's the bone a second time, and runs m a minute canal which tunnels the petrous bone, below the upper end of the channel in which is lodged the tensor ^™ ™ThrJcl this part of its course the tympanic nerve is joined by a branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, and after the junction fs effected, it is termed the small superficial petrosal Ue7he canal in which the small superficial petrosal nerve is Fig. 34. Diagram of the tympanic nerve (modified from Henle). ■ ■ t fifth nerve W Communicating twig to vagus (a) Inferior maxillary division of fifth nerve. <aj Alii" (6) Small superficial petrosal nerve. <c) Great superficial petrosal nerve. Id) Facial nerve. <c) Tympanic nerve in the tympanic cavity. (/) Branch to Eustachian tuhe. In) Small deep petrosal nerve (ft) Branch to carotid plexus. (k) Uomniunicanug — m Petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal, (m) Communicating twig to facial nerve. („) Tympanic nerve hefore it enters the petrous bone. (o) and (p) Branches to the mastoid cells, (r) Branch to tympanic plexus. cavitvupon the anterior face of lodged opens into the o— ca J V „291 VAGUS OR PNEUMOGASTRIC. supply—(1.) to the mucous membrane of the tympanum ; (2.) to the lining membrane of the mastoid cells (Fig. 34, p, o); and (3.) to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube (Fig. 34, f). It also gives off in the same part of its course branches which take part in the formation of the tympanic plexus (Fig. 34, r), and two which join the sympathetic plexus on the internal carotid artery. Of the latter, one leaves the tympanum by an aperture in its anterior wall (Fig. 34, h), whilst the other, termed the small deep petrosal nerve (n. petrosus prof, minor) (Fig. 34, g), enters a canal in the processus cochleariformis which conducts it to the foramen lacerum medium, where it effects its junction with the carotid plexus. Vagus or Pneumogastric.—The vagus is the largest of the three divisions of the eighth cranial nerve, and it passes through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen iri company with the spinal accessory—both being included within the same sheath of dura mater. In the neck it pursues a vertical course, lying, in the first instance, between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and afterwards between the same vein and the common carotid artery. Further, as has been already observed, it is inclosed within the sheath which en- velops these vessels, and it lies upon a plane posterior to them. At the root of the neck it enters the thorax, and shows different relations on the two sides. On the right side it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery ; on the left side it proceeds downwards between the common carotid and left subclavian arteries, and passes under cover of the left innominate vein. As in the case of the glosso-pharyngeal, the vagus shows two ganglia in connection with its upper part. These are the ganglion of the root {ganglion2^2 HEAD AND NECK. superius) and the ganglion of the trunk {ganglion inferius). The Ganglion of the Root is situated within the jugular foramen. It is a rounded swelling which is connected by com- municating twigs with several of the nerves in the neighbourhood, and which gives off two branches of distribution. BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION. BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION. (i.) With the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. (2.) With the spinal accessory. (3.) With the superior ganglion of the sympathetic. (1.) Recurrent nerve. (2.) Auricular nerve. The recurrent branch is a minute twig which runs backwards through the jugular foramen, and, dividing into two branches, is distributed to the dura mater in the posterior cranial fossa. The auricular nerve (Arnold's nerve) obtains a filament 01 communication from the petrous ganglion of *e §losso-pharyn- aeal, and proceeds backwards upon the outer surface of the bulb of the internal jugular vein to enter a minute aperture on the posterior part of the outer wall of the jugular foramen A narrow clZ now conducts it through the substance of the temporal bone and, on its way, it crosses internal to the Fallopian cana a short distance above the stylo-mastoid foramen. It hus brought into close relation with the faQ^ner^e, and is onnected with it by an ascending and a Ascending branch ^ communication. Finally it appears on the surface of the skull nTe interval between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus. Its further course is described on p. 217. After emerging from the jugular foramen, the vagus nerve is joined by the accessory portion of the spinalSUPERIOR LARYNGEAL NERVE. 293 accessory nerve, and swells out into the ganglion of the trunk. The ganglion of the trunk is an elongated reddish- coloured swelling of about three-quarters of an inch in length, which is developed upon the stem of the vagus nerve half-an-inch below the base of the cranium. Strong branches of communication pass between this ganglion, the first loop of the cervical plexus, and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Further, the hypoglossal nerve is generally closely bound to it by fibrous attachment, in the midst of which some interchange of nerve filaments takes place. The branches of distribution which arise from the vagus nerve in the neck may now be studied. These are:— (1.) Pharyngeal. (2.) Superior laryngeal. (3.) Inferior or recurrent laryngeal. (4.) Cardiac. The Pharyngeal Branch springs from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and runs downwards and forwards, superficial to the internal carotid artery, to end in the pharyngeal plexus. Very frequently it is replaced by two branches, of which the upper is the larger. The Superior Laryngeal Nerve is a much larger branch, which takes origin from the middle of the same ganglion. It passes downwards and forwards, but differs from the preceding, by passing under cover of the internal carotid artery. In this situation it294 HEAD AND NECK. ends by dividing into the internal laryngeal and external laryngeal nerves ; both of these have been previously seen .in the dissection of the anterior triangle (pp. 133 and 135)- Before it divides, the superior laryngeal effects communications by means of fine twigs with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and it also receives one or two filaments from the pharyngeal plexus. The internal laryngeal nerve runs forwards to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, and, disappearing under cover of the poste- rior border of the thyro-hyoid muscle, it pierces the membrane of the same name, and enters the larynx. The external laryngeal nerve is a very slender branch, which inclines downwards and forwards to reach the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. It supplies a few filaments to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx and a fine twig to the cardiac plexus, whilst it receives a communicating branch from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve arises differ- ently on the two sides. On the right side it springs from the vagus as it crosses the first part of the sub- clavian artery, and it adopts its recurrent course by hooking round this vessel. On the left side it arises in the thorax, and hooks round the transverse part of the aortic arch (or, more correctly speaking, around the termination of the obliterated ductus arteriosus). In the neck each nerve ascends in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, and passingSPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. 295 behind* or in front of the inferior thyroid artery, it disappears under cover of the lower border of the inferior constrictor muscle, to enter the larynx. Before the recurrent laryngeal nerve reaches the larynx it gives off several branches—viz., (1.) cardiac branches ; (2.) twigs to the trachea and oesophagus ; and (3.) a few filaments to the inferior constrictor as it passes under cover of its lower margin. The Cardiac Branches which the pneumogastric gives off in the neck are long slender filaments, which vary in number from one to three or even more. With the exception of the lowest branch of the left side, they unite with the cardiac branches of the cervical sympathetic. The lowest cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric has an independent course. It enters the thorax, and terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus. Spinal Accessory Nerve.—This nerve consists of two parts—an accessory and a spinal. In the foramen jugulare the accessory portion is connected by one or two fine twigs with the root-ganglion of the vagus, and below the skull it leaves the spinal part and joins the vagus. The fibres which the pneumogastric thus acquires pass over the surface of the trunk-ganglion, and are continued into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves ; some also can be * On the left side the nerve is usually in front of the artery; on the right side it is equally common to find it in front or behind (Dwight).296 HEAD AND NECK. traced down the stem of the vagus into the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The spinal part of the spinal accessory is directed backwards under the transverse process of the atlas. It crosses the internal jugular vein, and disappears into the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its further course has been already studied (pp. 138 and 117). It is distributed to two muscles—viz., the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius. Pharyngeal Plexus—This is a meshwork of fine nerve filaments, which is formed upon the lateral wall of the pharynx at the level of the middle constrictor muscle. The pharyngeal branches of the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic enter into its construction, and one or more minute ganglia are developed in connection with it. Its terminal twigs are given to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx, and one branch (the ramus lingualis vagi) connects the plexus with the hypoglossal nerve. The Hypoglossal Nerve has already been studied in the dissection of the anterior triangle, in which it appears by emerging from under cover of the digastric muscle, and also in the dissection of the submaxillary region, where it has been traced to the tongue. Its upper part should now be examined, and first its mode of exit from the cranium, through the anterior condyloid foramen. It pierces the dura mater by two separate parts, which unite into one stem at the entrance of the bony foramen. As it issues from297 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. the anterior condyloid foramen it lies deeply under cover of the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, but it almost immediately inclines outwards, and, taking a half__s£iral turn around the trunk-ganglion of the vagus, it appears between the two vessels, and is continued downwards and for- wards. ' Its close connection with the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus has already been noted. The two nerves at this point are almost inseparably united by dense connective tissue, and in the midst of this an interchange of nerve fibres takes place. Gaining the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the hypoglossal nerve hooks round the occipjtaL_artery, and enters the anterior triangle. Branches of communication.—-Near the base of the skull the hypoglossal is brought into connection with (i.) the superior cervical ganglion; (2.) the vagus; and (3.) the first cervical nerve. Further, as it turns round the occipital artery it receives the ramus lin- gij^Us^va^i from the pharjrigeaPpJexus, The importance of the connection between the hypoglossal and the first cervical nerve has already been alluded to (p. 150, v. Fig. 23). Branches of distribution.—With the exception of the minute recurrent, and vascular twigs, which come off within the condyloid foramen, the branches of distri- bution which proceed from the hypoglossal nerve have been described (pp. 149 and 274). The recurrent branch arises in the upper part of the anterior condyloid foramen, and, regaining the interior of the cranium, it is distributed to the dura mater around the foramen magnum.298 HEAD AND NECK. The vascular twigs are some fine filaments, which are said to be supplied to the deep aspect of the internal jugular vein. Sympathetic Cord in the Neck.—The number of ganglia which are developed upon the sympathetic cord in the neck is reduced to three ; but inasmuch as the superior cervical ganglion is brought into connec- tion with the four upper cervical nerves, there is good reason to suppose that it is formed by the coales- cence of four ganglia; upon similar grounds we may argue that the middle and inferior cervical ganglia are each formed by the amalgamation of two primitive ganglia. In the dissection of the neck the greater part of the cervical sympathetic, with the branches which proceed from it, has been displayed. The inferior ganglion, which lies deeply in the hollow between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, is still to a certain extent concealed, and must now be displayed. Dislodge the subclavian artery from its place on the first rib behind the scalenus anticus muscle, and turn it well inwards. To do this efficiently, it will be necessary to cut the superior intercostal artery at its origin; this vessel runs downwards upon the outer side of the sympa- thetic. Great care must be taken to preserve uninjured the fine nerves which proceed downwards in front of the first part of the subclavian artery. If more space for the dissection is required, the fore part of the first rib may be removed by the bone- pliers, but as a general rule this will not be found to be necessary.THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 299 The sympathetic cord takes a vertical course through the neck in front of the roots of the transverse processes of the vertebrae. It lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major and the longus colli muscles, immediately behind the carotid sheath. Above, it is prolonged upwards in the form of a stout, ascending nerve-trunk, which accompanies the internal carotid artery into the carotid canal; below, it becomes continuous over the neck of the first rib and behind the subclavian artery with the thoracic portion of the sympathetic. The branches take origin from the ganglia; occasionally, however, one or more may be observed to arise from the connecting cords. The Superior Cervical Ganglion is the largest of the three ganglia. It is an elongated fusiform body which varies somewhat in size. It is placed upon the upper part of the rectus capitis anticus major, opposite the second and third vertebrae, and behind the carotid sheath. From its upper end the stout branch proceeds which enters the carotid canal, whilst its lower end tapers into the continuation downward of the cord. Numerous branches issue from it; of these some connect it with neighbouring nerves, whilst others are distributed in various ways. The connecting branches are:—(1.) slender fila- ments which connect it with the upper four cervical nerves; (2.) twigs to both ganglia of the vagus; (3.) to the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal; and (4.) to the hypoglossal. It is in no way connected with the spinal accessory.HEAD AND NECK. 300 The branches of distribution are :— (i.) Nervi molles. (2.) Pharyngeal. (3.) Superior cardiac. The nervi molles are soft delicate filaments which run towards the external carotid artery, and form a loose interlacement around it and its branches. From this plexus a branch "is given to the intercarotic body ; further, the part continued upon the facial artery supplies, as we have already noted, the sympathetic root to the submaxillary ganglion, whilst the sub- division upon the middle meningeal furnishes the corresponding root to the otic ganglion, as well as the external superficial petrosal nerve which runs to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. The pharyngeal branches course inwards between the two carotid arteries to join the pharyngeal plexus. The superior cardiac nerve is a long slender branch which springs by several roots from the ganglion and then proceeds downwards behind the carotid sheath. At different stages of its course it is joined by other branches of the sympathetic, by the upper cardiac branches of the vagus, and also by filaments from the external laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The right superior cardiac nerve is continued into the thorax by passing behind or in front of the sub- clavian artery, and it ends in the deep cardiac plexus. The left superior cardiac nerve follows the left common carotid artery in the thorax, and crossing the arch of the aorta ends in superficial cardiac plexus.THE INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. 3° The Middle Cervical Ganglion is the smallest of the three ganglia of the neck. It is placed opposite the sixth cervical vertebra in close proximity to the inferior thyroid artery, upon which, indeed, it not unfrequently rests. It gives off the following branches :— (i.) Twigs which connect it with the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, and which pass between the con- tiguous margins of the scalenus anticus and longus colli. (2.) Thyroid branches which run to the thyroid body along the inferior thyroid artery, and which form connections with the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. (3.) The middle cardiac nerve. On both sides the middle cardiac nerve enters the thorax and is lost in the deep cardiac plexus. In the neck it is connected with the superior cardiac nerve, and with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. On the right side it passes behind or in front of the subclavian artery; on the left side it is continued downwards between the common carotid and subclavian arteries. The Inferior Cervical Ganglion is lodged in the interval between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib. In this position it lies behind the vertebral artery. It is by no means uncommon to find it more or less completely fused over the neck of the first rib with the first thoracic ganglion. Again, the302 "w HEAD AND NECK. connection between it and the middle ganglion is generally in the form of several slender nerve-cords, of which one or two pass in front of the subclavian artery. The loops which are thus formed are termed ansce Vieussienii. The branches of the inferior cervical ganglion are:— (i.) Connecting twigs to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. (2.) Nervi molles. (3.) Inferior cardiac nerve. The nervi molles are large branches which form a more apparent sympathetic plexus around the vertebral artery than that possessed by any other blood vessel of the neck. This must be associated with the large sympathetic branch which we have seen accompanying the internal carotid, and no doubt points to the exercise of a more thorough control over these intra-cranial blood-vessels. The lower cardiac nerve on both sides enters the deep cardiac plexus. It is connected with the recurrent laryngeal nerve and not unfrequently also with the middle cardiac nerve. Rectus Capitis Lateralis.—This little muscle should now be cleaned, and its attachments denned. It lies in the interval between the transverse process of the atlas and the occiput, behind the commence- ment of the internal jugular vein. The anteriorFIRST LOOP OF THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 3°3 division of the first cervical nerve will be seen emerging from under cover of its inner margin. The rectus lateralis arises from the forepart of the upper surface of the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular eminence of the occipital bone. It is supplied by a branch from the anterior division of the first cervical nerve. First Loop of the Cervical Plexus. —The anterior primary division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve may next be examined. It will be noticed emerging from under cover of the inner surface of the rectus lateralis muscle. It at once turns downwards in front of the transverse process of the atlas, and joining the ascending branch of the second cervical nerve, forms the first loop of the cervical plexus. From this loop branches are given to two muscles—viz., the rectus capitis anticus major and minor; it is likewise brought into connection by means of communicating twigs with—(i.) the superior cervical ganglion ; (2.) the vagus ; (3.) the hypoglossal. If the rectus lateralis muscle be detached from the transverse process of the atlas and turned upwards, a twig from the anterior division of the first cervical nerve will be found entering its deep surface ; further by cutting through the origin of the superior oblique muscle of the head, this nerve-division may be traced to the upper surface of the neural arch of the atlas, where it takes origin from the first spinal nerve trunk. The entire length of the anterior primary division304 HEAD AND NECK. of the first cervical nerve may now be studied, and its relations are simply these—it turns round the superior articular process of the atlas, under cover of the vertebral artery and the rectus capitis lateralis, and gaining the anterior aspect of the atlas, it enters into the formation of the first loop of the cervical plexus. As it lies in relation to the vertebral artery it is joined by a filament from the sympathetic plexus which surrounds that vessel. Removal of the Head and Neck from the Trunk.—By the time that the dissectors of the head and neck have arrived at this stage of their work, the dissectors of the thorax have in all probability finished their dissection. If this be the case, the head and neck may be removed from the trunk by cutting through the vertebral column at the level of the intervertebral disc between the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae. By this proceeding the three upper dorsal vertebrae, with attached portions of the first, second, and third pairs of ribs, are removed with the neck. The scalene muscles and the longus colli are therefore preserved intact. The structures contained within the middle cranial fossa may now be examined, and, in carrying out this dissection, the head should be supported on a block so that the floor of the cranial cavity looks upwards.DISSECTION OF THE MIDDLE CRANIAL FOSSA. 305 DISSECTION OF THE STRUCTURES IN THE LATERAL PART OP THE MIDDLE CRA- NIAL FOSSA. The following are the structures which must be displayed in this dissection :— (1.) Cavernous venous sinus. (2.) Internal carotid artery. (3.) Middle meningeal artery. (4.) Small meningeal artery. (5.) The two roots of the fifth nerve, with the Gasserian ganglion and the three main divisions of the fifth nerve. (6.) Occulo-motor nerve (3rd cranial). (7.) Trochlear nerve (4th cranial). (8.) Abducent nerve (6th cranial). (9.) Cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. (10.) Great superficial petrosal nerve, (n.) Small superficial petrosal nerve. Dissection.—To expose these structures, the dura mater must be stripped from the inner part of the lateral portion of the middle cranial fossa. Enter the knife at the anterior clinoid process, and carry it backwards to the apex of the petrous bone. This incision must go no deeper than is necessary to divide the dura mater, and must be made immediately to the outer side of the openings in the membrane through which the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass. It is very important to preserve these apertures intact, so that the proximal ends of these nerves may be held in position during the dissection. The incision through the dura mater may now be carried along the upper border of the petrous bone in the line of the superior PART III. X3o6 HEAD AND NECK. petrosal sinus, and also outwards along the posterior margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The dura mater is then to be raised, and the greatest care must be taken in doing so, because it is intimately connected with the nerves which lie subjacent to it. Thus, where it forms the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, it is closely applied to the third and fourth nerves, and firmly attached to the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, whilst over the petrous bone it is united to the surface of the Gasserian ganglion. The edge of the knife, therefore, must be kept close to the membrane, and a small portion of it may be left upon the nerves. This can afterwards be removed as the nerves are defined. Cavernous Sinus—(Fig. 8, Sc, p. 35)-—The cavernous sinus has been opened by the above dissection. It is a short, wide venous channel, which extends upon the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, from the lower and inner end of the sphenoidal fissure backwards to the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In front, blood is conducted into it by the ophthalmic veins and the spheno- parietal venous sinus (v. p. 37)> whilst behind, the blood is drained away by the superior and inferior petrosal venous sinuses (v. p. 36). But it has still other connections ; thus, it receives some of the inferior cerebral veins, and internally it is brought into communication with the corresponding sinus of the opposite side by means of the circular sinus (p. 36). Lastly, one or more minute emissary veins leave its307 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE. under aspect, and, passing out of the cranium by the foramen ovale,* connect it with the pterygoid venous plexus. The cavernous sinus is formed in the same manner as the other venous sinuses. The two layers of the dura mater are separated from each other, and the interval is lined by a delicate membrane. A compli- cated network of interlacing filaments occupies the lumen of the channel, and it is on this account that the term " cavernous " is applied to it. But, as we have already indicated, this sinus has an unusual importance to the anatomist on account of its being- traversed by the internal carotid artery, the cavernous plexus, and the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. The precise relation which these structures bear to its walls will be described later on ; in the meantime it is only necessary to state that, while they are contained in the interval between the two layers of the dura mater, they are shut out from the blood-channel by the delicate lining membrane of the sinus. Fifth Cranial Nerve.—The two roots of this nerve have already been seen piercing the dura mater at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone Under the anterior extremity of the tentorium. Now that the dura mater has been raised from the lateral part of the middle cranial fossa the further relations of these nerve-roots within the cranium * Or it may be through the foramen Vesalii when such exists m the sphenoid bone.308 HEAD AND NECK. may be studied. It will be noticed that the loosely connected and parallel funiculi of the large sensory root at once begin to divide and join with each so as to form a dense plexiform arrangement, whilst, at the same time, the nerve-root increases somewhat in breadth. The interlacement thus brought about sinks into the Gasserian ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion is somewhat crescentic in form, and occupies the smooth depression which marks the anterior aspect of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The concavity of the ganglion is directed inwards, and it is upon this aspect that it receives the interlacing fibres of the sensory root of the fifth nerve; the convexity of the ganglion is directed outwards, and] from it emerge the three main divisions of the fifth nerve. These are, from before backwards—(i.) the first, or ophthalmic division ; (2.) the second, or superior maxillary division ; and (3.) the third, or inferior maxillary division. The outer surface of the Gasserian ganglion has already been observed to be closely attached to the deep surface of the dura mater. By its inner part it is connected with the sympathetic by some fine filaments which come from the carotid plexus. The motor root of the fifth nerve should now be followed. Before the nerve pierces the dura mater the motor root lies along the inner side of the large sensory root, but it soon changes this position and comes to lie upon the under surface of the sensory p^rt To display this relationship, draw the cut ends309 FIFTH CRANIAL NERVE. of the two roots through the aperture in the dura mater, and gently dislodging the Gasserian ganglion from its place, turn it forwards and outwards so as to expose its deep surface. The small firm motor root can readily be recognised lying in a groove upon the deep surface of the ganglion, and if it be raised from this, it will be seen to have no connection with the ganglion, but to be continued onwards towards the foramen ovale. It ultimately joins the inferior max- illary division of the fifth nerve. This junction may take place within the cranium, in the foramen ovale, or immediately after they gain the exterior of the skull. The three principal divisions of the fifth nerve may next be examined. Begin with the inferior maxillary division, which is the largest. This proceeds directly downwards, and almost immediately leaves the cranial cavity through the foramen ovale. In isolating this large nerve trunk and defining the bony aperture through which it makes its exit, look carefully for the small meningeal artery which enters the cranium through the same foramen. If the injection has been forced into this vessel it can easily be detected. Through the foramen ovale the minute emissary veins which connect the cavernous sinus with the pterygoid venous plexus also pass. The superior maxillary division, which is composed entirely of sensory fibres, is prolonged forwards, and after a short course within the cranium, makes its exit through ,the foramen rotundum. Near its origin it gives off a fine recurrent branch to the dura mater.HEAD AND NECK 3io The recurrent branch of the supra-maxillaris takes origin by several fine roots, and runs outwards to the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. It communicates with the fine filaments of the recurrent branch of the infra-maxillary division of the fifth nerve (p. 258). The ophthalmic division is the smallest of the three parts of the fifth nerve, and, like the supra-maxillary, it is entirely composed of sensory fibres. It proceeds forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and ends close to the sphenoidal fissure by dividing into three terminal branches. As it traverses the sinus it is accompanied by the third and fourth nerves, both of which occupy a higher level. Like the other two divisions of the fifth nerve the ophthalmic nerve gives off a recurrent branch to the dura mater. It also sends a slender twig to each of the other three nerves which traverse the cavernous sinus—viz., the third, fourth, and sixth, and it receives several filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. The recurrent branch springs from the ophthalmic nerve close to its origin, and runs backwards for a short distance in the sheath of the fourth nerve. After leaving this nerve it breaks up into fine terminal filaments, which are distributed between the two layers of the dura mater in the neighbourhood of the superior petrosal sinus. The terminal branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve are the nasal, the lachrymal, and the frontal The nasal, as a rule, takes origin first; soon after, the lachrymal is given off, and then the stem of the nerve is continued onwards as the frontal. All these nerves enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure.THE THIRD, FOURTH, AND SIXTH NERVES. 311 The Third, Fourth, and Sixth Nerves.—The third and fourth nerves, as the dissector has previously noted, pierce the dura mater within the small trian- gular area, which is formed by the divergence of the attached and free margins of the tentorium. They now proceed forwards in the outer wall of the caver- nous sinus. The third nerve occupies the highest level, then comes the fourth nerve, and immediately below this is the ophthalmic division of the fifth. They therefore present a numerical order from above downwards. The sixth nerve, which pierces the dura mater at the lower and outer part of the dorsum sellae, will be observed to wind round the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and then to proceed forwards on the floor of the cavernous sinus. It therefore occupies a lower level than the three nerves in the outer wall of the sinus, and at first lies some- what apart from them. The third, fourth, and sixth nerves give off no branches during their course through the cavernous sinus, but each receives a minute twig from the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and also one or more filaments from the sympathetic. They all enter the orbit by passing through the sphenoidal fissure; before doing so, the third nerve divides into an upper and a lower division. During their passage through the fissure the various nerves undergo a change in their relative positions. This, however, will be studied in the dissection of the orbit when the sphenoidal fissure is opened up.HEAD AND NECK. 312 Internal Carotid Artery.—The intra-cranial portion of the internal carotid artery may now be examined. It lies upon the lateral aspect of the body of the sphenoid, and for the greater part of its course it traverses the floor of the cavernous sinus. It enters the cranium by emerging from the carotid canal at the apex of the petrous bone, and it first ascends vertically until it reaches the root of the posterior clinoid process ; here it makes a bend and is prolonged forwards to the inner aspect of the anterior clinoid process where it abruptly turns upwards and pierces the dura mater immediately behind the entrance of the optic nerve into the optic foramen. At this point it has been severed in the removal of the brain, but it will be afterwards seen to end at the commencement of the Sylvian fissure of the brain, by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. Throughout its whole course it is surrounded by sympathetic filaments, and soon after its entrance into the cranium, the sixth nerve winds round its outer side. The intra-cranial portion of the internal carotid artery gives off the following branches :— \ These are min- (i.) Branches to the pituitary body, ) tg twigg whkh (2.) Branches to the Gasserian ganglion, V.^ in the (3.) Branches to the dura mater, ) cavernous sjnus. (4.) Ophthalmic, \ (5.) Posterior communicating, ( These will be studied (6.) Anterior cerebral, ) terminal fat a later stage. (7.) Middle cerebral, j branches. JCAROTID AND CAVERNOUS PLEXUSES. 3X3 Carotid and Cavernous Plexuses.—The sym- pathetic filaments which form these plexuses can only be satisfactorily dissected in a subject which has not been injected, and even then, the dissection is an exceedingly difficult one. The carotid plexus is the name eiven to a fine nerve-meshwork upon the outer side of the internal carotid artery at the point where it enters the cranium. It supplies filaments to the inner part of the Gasserian ganglion and to the sixth nerve. The cavernous plexus is placed in the cavern- ous sinus upon the lower and inner aspect of the same vessel, at the point where it makes its final bend upwards. It supplies filaments to the pituitary body, to the third and fourth nerves, and to the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and likewise the sympathetic root to the lenticular or ophthalmic ganglion. Great Superficial Petrosal Nerve.—This minute nerve, along with a small arterial twig from the middle meningeal artery, can readily be exposed in the groove on the anterior face of the petrous bone which leads outwards to the hiatus Fallopii. It is placed under cover of the Gasserian ganglion, which must therefore be turned forwards and outwards. Entering the hiatus Fallopii, the great superficial petrosal nerve is conducted to the aqueduct of Fallopius, where it joins the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. If traced in the opposite direction, it will be found at the posterior aspect of the body of the sphenoid bone314 HEAD AND NECK. to join the large deep petrosal nerve from the carotid plexus. The trunk formed by the union of these two filaments is the Vidian nerve. The Small Superficial Petrosal Nerve appears upon the anterior face of the petrous bone through an aperture which is placed immediately external to the hiatus Fallopii. It leaves the cranial cavity by passing downwards between the great wing of the sphenoid, and the petrous part of the temporal bone to reach the otic ganglion. This minute nerve, as has already been mentioned (p. 291), is formed by the union of the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal with a branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial. External Superficial Petrosal Nerve—It is conveni- ent at this stage, to take note of a third petrosal nerve—the external superficial petrosal. It takes origin from the sympa- thetic plexus, which accompanies the middle meningeal artery, and entering the petrous bone, is conducted to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. Middle and Small Meningeal Arteries—The entrance of the middle meningeal artery through the foramen spinosum should now be examined. It gives minute twigs to the Gasserian ganglion, and one—the petrosal artery—which accompanies the great super- ficial petrosal nerve into the hiatus Fallopii. The farther course of the middle meningeal artery has already been described (pp. 38 and 256). The small recurrent branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve also enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum (p. 258). The small meningeal artery enters the cranium through the foramen ovale, and is chiefly distributed to the Gasserian ganglion.315 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT AND OP THE STRUCTURES PASSING THROUGH THE SPHENOIDAL FISSURE. Within the orbital cavity we find grouped around the eyeball and the optic nerve the following structures :— Rectus superior. Rectus inferior. Rectus externus. Muscles, . <( Rectus internus. Obliquus superior. Obliquus inferior. Levator palpebral superior. Vessels, i Ophthalmic artery and its branches. Ophthalmic veins (superior and inferior) with their tributaries. Occulo-motor (3rd). Trochlear (4th). Abducent (6th). Nerves, . / yr0^ta^ ) from ophthalmic division of Lachrymal, > / ( fifth nerve. Nasal, ; Orbital branch of the superior maxillary divi- sion of fifth nerve. Lenticular ganglion. Lachrymal gland. The capsule of Tenon. Dissection.—The roof of the orbit must be removed. To effect this, two saw-cuts are required : (1.) The first must be made obliquely, by applying the saw to the cut margin of the skull over the internal orbital process and carrying it downwards and out- wards through the orbital arch to a point immediatelyHEAD AND NECK. 3i6 to the inner side of the supraorbital notch. By this proceeding the portion of the orbital arch which bears the pulley for the tendon of the superior oblique muscle lies to the inner side of the saw- cut, and is thus retained in place during the subsequent dissection. (2.) The second section must be made very obliquely. Apply the saw to the cut margin of the skull, on a line with the posterior border of the great wing of the sphenoid, and carry it downwards and inwards to the outer extremity of the orbital arch* so as to open at the same time into the outer extremity of the sphenoidal fissure. The inner saw-cut should now be prolonged backwards, by means of the chisel, to a point a short distance in front of the optic foramen, and then carried outwards to the point at which the external saw-cut has opened into the sphenoidal fissure. When this is done, a sharp tap with a wooden mallet will disengage the piece of bone, and tilt it forwards. It must not be removed until the frontal nerve has been dissected, but the thin portion of the orbital roof which projects from its posterior aspect may be taken away by the bone-pliers. The inner portion of the orbital roof, as well as the lesser wing of the sphenoid where it forms * The usual section which is recommended is a vertical cut through the outer end of the orbital arch, but much more space for dissection will be gained by adopting the section as described. It was Dr. Thornley Stoker, of the Royal College of Surgeons, who fifst pointed this out to the author.PERIOSTEUM. 3 T7 the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure, should next be removed by the bone-pliers, but the dissector must carefully preserve intact the ring of bone around the optic foramen. The sphenoidal fissure is now fully opened up, and the various nerves, as they enter the orbit from the cavernous sinus, may be followed out. Lastly, the anterior clinoid process may be taken away with advantage. Periosteum.—If the above dissection has been successfully carried out, the periosteum clothing the under surface of the orbital roof will be exposed uninjured. The periosteum of the orbit forms a funnel-shaped sheath, which encloses all the contents of the cavity, and is but loosely attached to its bony walls. Behind, it will be observed to be directly continuous with the dura mater, through the sphen- oidal fissure ; whilst, expanding with the cavity, it becomes continuous in front around the orbital opening with the periosteum, which clothes the exterior of the skull. Here also it presents important connections with the palpebral ligaments (p. 232). Parts exposed by the reflection of the Peri- osteum.—The periosteum should be divided along the middle line of the orbit, and also transversely as far forwards as possible. It can now be thrown inwards and outwards. When this is done the lachrymal gland will be exposed in the fore and outer part of the cavity resting upon the upper and outer aspect of the eyeball. Further, the large frontal nerve, lying upon3i8 HEAD AND NECK. the upper surface of the levator palpebral superioris, will be seen stretching forwards in the middle line of the orbit; as it approaches the fore part of the cavity, it is joined by the supra-orbital artery. The other superficial structures are usually more or less obscured by the soft pliable fat, which everywhere fills up the interstices between the different orbital contents. On carefully separating this, along the inner wall of the orbit, the superior oblique muscle will be more fully displayed, and lying upon and entering the hinder part of this muscle, the small fourth nerve will be discovered. As a general rule the dissector fails to find this nerve, because he looks for it too far forwards. Lastly, the lachrymal nerve and artery will be found running along the outer wall of the orbit, above the level of the upper margin of the external rectus muscle. These structures must be thoroughly cleaned and isolated by the removal of the fat from around them. In tracing the superior oblique muscle forwards, it will be found to end in a slender tendon, which passes through a ring-like pulley, attached to the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit. This pulley must be defined, and the tendon of the muscle followed onwards to its insertion into the eyeball. It will be observed that the levator palpebral superioris lies upon the upper surface of the superior rectus, and if it be raised, a nerve twig will be noticed, emerging from the substance of the rectus superior for the supply of the levator palpebral muscle. This is a branch of the superficial division of the third nerve.FRONTAL NERVE. 319 The dissection of the above parts will be facilitated by grasping the front of the eyeball with the forceps, and drawing it forwards. It may be retained in this position by running a fine needle and thread through the ocular conjunctiva and stitching it to the nose. In doing this, however, take care that the needle does not penetrate the cornea, because this would render the subsequent inflation of the eyeball impossible. Frontal Nerve.—The frontal nerve is the continu- ation of the stem of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, after it has given off its lachrymal and nasal branches. It enters through the sphenoidal fissure above the muscles, and proceeds forwards upon the upper surface of the levator palpebral superioris. At a variable distance from the orbital opening, it ends by dividing into the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves. The supra-trochlear nerve is the inner and smaller of the two terminal branches of the frontal. It runs towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, above which it leaves the orbit, by turning round the orbital arch to reach the forehead. Its further course has already been described (pp. 6 and 220). In the orbit it gives off one small twig close to the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. This passes downwards to join the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is continued forward in the ■ line of the parent stem, and, passing through the supra-320 HEAD AND NECK. orbital notch or foramen, it turns upwards on the fore- head (pp. 8 and 220). In the dissection of the scalp we have noted that this nerve divides into an outer and inner division. Sometimes this division takes place within the orbit, and in that case the outer larger part occupies the supra-orbital notch. The Lachrymal Nerve is the smallest of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It enters the orbit through the sphen- oidal fissure above the level of the muscles, and it proceeds forwards along the outer wall of the cavity, and above the upper margin of the external rectus muscle. At the fore part of the orbit it con- tinues its course under cover of the lachrymal gland until it reaches the outer part of the upper eyelid, in which it ends (p. 221). Within the orbital cavity it gives numerous twigs to the deep surface of the lachrymal gland, and it sends downwards a filament which connects it with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Fourth Nerve.—This small nerve is destined entirely for the supply of the superior oblique muscle. Entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure above the muscles, it is continued forwards and inwards under the periosteum. It finally sinks into the upper or orbital surface of the superior oblique muscle not far from its origin. Lachrymal Gland.-The lachrymal 'gland is aTHE LEVATOR PALPEBR^E SUPERIORIS. 321 small flattened body of an oval form, and distinctly lobular structure, which is placed in the fore and outer part of the orbital cavity. It consists of two parts or lobes—an orbital and a palpebral—imperfectly separ- ated from each other. The orbital part constitutes the main mass of the gland. Its outer surface is convex, and is lodged in a hollow upon the inner aspect of the external angular process of the frontal bone. To this it is bound by short fibrous bands which proceed from the periosteum. The deep or inner surface is concave, and rests upon the upper and outer aspect of the eyeball in contact with the superior and external recti muscles. The small palpebral lobe is placed in front of the orbital part, from which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia. It projects into the back part of the upper eyelid> and rests upon the conjunctiva which lines the under aspect of the lid. This portion of the gland has been already examined in the dissection of the eyelids (p. 235); but even in the undissected subject it can be seen through the conjunctiva if the upper eyelid be fully everted. The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and its ducts (twelve to fourteen in number) open in a row upon the under surface of the upper eyelid along the line of the fornix (p. 235). The Levator Palpebrae Superioris rests upon the upper surface of the rectus superior. Behind it is narrow and pointed, but it expands as it passes forwards above the eyeball to reach the upper eyelid. part in. Y322 HEAD AND NECK. It arises from the under surface of the roof of the orbit immediately in front of the optic foramen, and is inserted by a broad membranous expansion into the superior tarsal plate (p. 234). The outer and inner margins of this expansion are fixed to the rim of the orbital opening, in close proximity to the external and internal tarsal ligaments. By these attachments the action of the muscle upon the upper eyelid is in a measure limited. Dissection.—The frontal nerve should be divided, and the ends thrown forwards and backwards. The levator palpebral superioris may also be cut midway between its origin and insertion. On raising the posterior portion a minute nervous twig will be observed entering its deep or ocular surface. This comes from the superficial division of the third or oculo-motor nerve. The detached portion of the orbital arch may, in the next place, be removed, but the soft parts of the forehead and the upper eyelid should be retained. The eyeball should now be inflated. Gently separate the fat under cover of the superior rectus muscle and, pushing aside the ciliary nerves and vessels from the optic nerve, place a ligature around it close to the eyeball. A minute aperture should next be made in the sheath of the nerve behind the ligature, and introducing a blow-pipe into this, thrust it forcibly forwards into the interior of the eyeball. The pipe should be provided with a stylette so as to keep the aperture free. When the globe of the eye is fully inflated, the ligature may be tightenedSUPERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 323 as the blow-pipe is withdrawn. At the back of the eyeball the dissector will notice a quantity of loose bursal-like tissue. This is the Capsule of Tenon. Seize the upper part of this with the forceps, and remove a small portion with a pair of scissors. An aperture is thus made into the capsule, and the handle of the knife can be introduced into the space between it and the eyeball. In favourable cases the extent of the capsule can be gauged, and perhaps even the prolongations or sheaths which it gives to the tendons of the ocular muscles made out. The description of the capsule of Tenon is given in p. 336. Rectus' Superior.—The rectus superior, which lies under cover of the levator palpebral supefioris, is now fully exposed. It arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and passing forward above the optic nerve, ends upon the upper aspect of the eye- ball in a thin, delicate tendon, which expands somewhat to be inserted into the sclerotic coat about three or four lines behind the sclero-corneal junction. It is supplied by a branch from the superior division of the third nerve. The Superior Oblique Muscle arises from the roof of the orbit immediately in front of the upper and inner part of the optic foramen, and extends forwards along the inner wall of the cavity above the internal rectus. At the fore-part of the orbit it ends in a slender tendon, which enters the pulley ' and at once changes its direction. It now proceeds324 HEAD AND NECK. outwards and slightly backwards upon the upper surface of the eyeball, and under cover of the superior rectus. Beyond the outer edge of the latter muscle the tendon expands somewhat, and is inserted into the sclerotic coat midway between the entrance of the optic nerve and the cornea. The Pulley through which the tendon passes is a small fibro-cartilaginous ring, which is attached by fibrous tissue to the trochlear fossa—a depression in the frontal bone close to the internal angular process. The pulley is lined by a small synovial sheath which facilitates the movement of the tendon within it, and from its outer margin it gives a fibrous investment to the tendon. Dissection—The external rectus muscle should now be divided midway between its origin and its insertion, and the cut ends thrown backwards and forwards.' On raising the posterior part of the muscleOPTIC NERVE. 325 the superior division of the third nerve is brought into view, and will be seen to sink into its deep or ocular surface, and at the same time send a twig to the levator palpebral superioris. The removal of some fat will bring the optic nerve more fully into view, and at the back part of the orbit three structures will be observed crossing it—viz., (1.) the nasal nerve; (2.) the ophthalmic artery; and (3.) the superior ophthalmic vein. These should be care- fully cleaned and their branches followed out. From the nasal nerve, one or two delicate thread- like branches — the long ciliary nerves — will be found passing forwards along the optic nerve to reach the eyeball. The short ciliary nerves, much more numerous, accompany the long ciliary branches, and can readily be disengaged from the fat which surrounds the optic nerve. A strong member of this group should be selected and followed backwards ; it will lead the dissector to the lenticular or ophthal- mic ganglion. This is a minute body which is situated upon the outer side of the optic nerve far back in the orbit. With a little patience and care the roots which the nasal nerve and inferior division of the third nerve give to this ganglion, can be isolated, and perhaps even the sympathetic root may be found. Optic Nerve.—The optic nerve enters the orbit through the optic foramen. It carries with it a strong loose sheath of dura mater, and also a more delicate investment from the arachnoid. The ophthalmic326 HEAD AND NECK. artery which accompanies it, lies in relation to its outer and lower aspect Within the orbit the nerve inclines forwards and outwards, and at the same time somewhat downwards, and gaining the back of the eyeball, it pierces the sclerotic a short distance to the inner side of its centre. As the dissector has already observed, its upper surface is crossed by the ophthal- mic artery and vein and the nasal nerve, and it is closely accompanied by the delicate ciliary nerves and vessels. The distance which the optic nerve has to run from the optic foramen to the globe of the eye is about one inch. Within the eyeball, it spreads out in the retina. Nasal Nerve.—The nasal nerve arises in the fore part of the cavernous sinus from the ophthalmic division of the fifth. It passes through the sphen- oidal fissure and enters the orbital cavity between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and between the two divisions of the third nerve. It now inclines forwards and inwards, and, crossing the optic nerve obliquely, it runs between the internal rectus and superior oblique muscle. Here it reaches the inner wall of the orbit, and ends by dividing into two terminal branches—viz., the infra-trochlear and the nasal proper. In addition to these it gives off in the orbit the following branches:— (i.) Long root to the lenticular ganglion. (2.) Long ciliary nerves. The long ganglionic root is a very slender filament327 NASAL NERVE. which springs from the nasal as it enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus. It proceeds forwards on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the lenticular ganglion. The long ciliary nerves—usually two in number— spring from the nasal as it crosses the optic nerve. They proceed forwards upon the inner side of the optic nerve to reach the globe of the eye, where they pierce the sclerotic. One of the long ciliary nerves very constantly unites with one of the short ciliary filaments. The infra-trochlear nerve runs forwards along the inner wall of the orbit and under cover of the superior oblique. Passing under the trochlea of that muscle, it emerges from the orbit and appears upon the face where it has already been dissected (p. 221). Near the pulley it receives a communicating twig from the supra-trochlear nerve. The nasal proper is the larger of the two terminal branches of the nasal nerve. It leaves the orbit by the anterior internal orbital canal, and is conducted to the interior of the cranium, in which it appears at the outer margin of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The orbital canal can readily be opened up with the bone-pliers and the nerve exposed within it. Upon the cribriform plate it turns forwards under the dura mater, and almost immediately disappears through a slit-like aperture at the side of the crista galli, to reach the nasal cavity. Here it gives branches ' to the mucous membrane, and is continued down-328 HEAD AND NECK. wards upon the posterior aspect of the nasal bone. Finally, it emerges upon the face by passing between the lower margin of the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage of the nose. Its terminal filaments have already been described (p. 221). The nasal nerve proper, therefore, takes a most circuitous route, being found—(1.) in the orbit; (2.) in the cranium ; (3.) in the nasal fossa; and (4.) in the face. Lenticular Ganglion.—The lenticular or ophthal- mic ganglion is a minute quadrangular body, not much larger than the head of a large pin ; but its size varies considerably in different subjects. It is placed in the back part of the orbit between the optic nerve and the external rectus muscle, and very commonly on the outer side of the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior border it receives its three roots; whilst from its anterior border the short ciliary nerves are given off. The sensory root comes from the nasal, and is called the long root. It enters the upper and hinder angle of the ganglion. The short or motor root is a short, stout trunk; it comes from the branch of the third nerve, which goes to the inferior oblique muscle, and it enters the lower and hinder angle of the ganglion. The sympathetic root comes from the cavernous plexus, and joins the posterior border of the ganglion, close to the entrance of the long root from the nasal nerve. In some cases its joins the long root before it reaches the ganglion.THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 329 The short ciliary nerves are from six to ten in number, and they come off in two groups, of which one emerges from the upper and fore angle of the ganglion, whilst the other springs from its lower and fore angle. ' The lower group is generally more numerous than the upper. As these fine nerves proceed along the optic nerve they divide, and thus increase in number; at the back of the eye-ball from twelve to eighteen may be counted. Finally they pierce the sclerotic by a series of apertures which are placed around the entrance of the optic nerve. The Ophthalmic Artery is a branch of the internal carotid, and it accompanies the optic nerve into the orbit through the optic foramen (pp. 30 and 38). At first it lies to the outer side of the optic nerve, but it soon inclines inwards, and crossing the nerve, proceeds forwards along the inner wall of the orbit, under cover of the superior oblique muscle. At the inner angle of the orbit, it ends by dividing into two terminal branches—viz., the frontal and the nasal. The branches of the ophthalmic artery are very numerous, and they can seldom be satisfactorily displayed, unless a special injection has been made, or a cold injection used. They are :— (1.) The lachrymal. (6.) Ethmoidal. (2.) Muscular. (7.) Palpebral. (3.) Arteria retinae centralis. (8.) Nasal. (4.) Ciliary. • (9.) Frontal. (5.) Supra-orbital.330 HEAD AND NECK. The lachrymal artery accompanies the lachrymal nerve, and supplies the gland of that name, the conjunctiva and the outer portions of the two eyelids. The muscular twigs come off at variable points, not only from the main artery, but also from certain of its branches. They supply the muscles contained in the orbital cavity. The arteria retince centralis is a minute, but im- portant artery. It pierces the optic nerve about a quarter of an inch behind the eye-ball, and is con- ducted in its substance to the interior of the globe of the eye. The ciliary arteries are very numerous. Two groups are recognised—viz., a posterior and an anterior. The posterior ciliary arteries run with the ciliary nerves. At first four and five in number they divide into fifteen or twenty twigs which pierce the sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve. The anterior ciliary arteries come off in the fore part of the orbit from the lachrymal and muscular branches. They vary in number from six to eight, and they run to the anterior part of the eyeball, where they form an arterial circle under the conjunctiva. From this, twigs arise which pierce the sclerotic immediately behind the cornea. The supra-orbital artery accompanies the supra- orbital nerve, and thus gains the forehead, where it has been dissected at a previous stage (p. 11). The ethmoidal arteries are two in number—anterior and posterior—and they run to the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina. The posteriorTHE OPHTHALMIC VEINS. 331 ethmoidal artery supplies the mucous lining of the posterior ethmoidal cells, and likewise sends twigs to the upper part of the nose. The ayiterior ethmoidal artery is a larger branch. It runs in company with the nasal nerve proper, and gives off minute twigs at each stage of its course. Thus in the anterior internal orbital canal it gives branches to the mucous lining of the anterior ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinus ; during its sojourn in the cranial cavity it supplies the small anterior meningeal arteries (p. 39) ; in the nasal cavity it gives twigs to the mucous membrane ; whilst its terminal branch appears on the face to supply parts on the side of the nose. The palpebral branches came off near the orbital opening, and are two in number—one for the upper and the other for the lower eyelid (p. 234). The nasal branch is distributed at the root of the nose, and anastomoses with the angular branch of the facial artery. The frontal artery accompanies the supra-trochlear nerve to the forehead, where it has already been dissected (p. 10). The Ophthalmic Veins.—As a general rule these are two in number—superior and inferior. The superior ophthalmic vein is the larger of the two, and it accompanies the artery across the optic nerve. It takes origin at the root of the nose, where it com- municates by a wide radicle with the angular vein. The inferior, ophthalmic vein lies deeper, below the level of the optic nerve, and it is brought into com-332 HEAD AND NECK. munication with the pterygoid venous plexus by an offset which passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure. The two ophthalmic veins receive numerous tributaries during their course through the orbit, and finally they pass between the two heads of the external rectus muscle, and through the sphenoidal fissure to open into the cavernous sinus, either separately or by a common trunk. The Recti Muscles.—The four straight muscles of the eyeball converge to the apex of the orbit, and together form the sides of a four-sided or pyramidal space, in which are enclosed the optic nerve and the greater part of the globe of the eye. The rectus superior, which has been reflected, has already been studied. The rectus interims springs from the inner side of the optic foramen, and the rectus inferior takes origin from a fibrous band which bounds the inner extremity of the sphenoidal fissure. The rectus externus is distinguished from the others by arising from a fibrous arch, the extremities of which are termed its two heads of origin. The lower head arises partly in common with the rectus inferior, and partly from a prominent spine of bone on the great wing of the sphenoid, where it forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure* ; the upper head is attached above the fissure upon the outer side of the optic foramen * It frequently happens that the lower extremity of this fibrous arch has no connection with the spine on the lower margin of the sphen- oidal fissure. In such cases it is merely attached to the body of the sphenoid where this bounds the inner end of the fissure.333 THE RECTI MUSCLES. where its origin becomes continuous with that of the superior rectus. Through the archway which intervenes between the two heads of the external rectus pass the two divisions of the third nerve, the nasal nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic veins. When the ocular surfaces {i.e., the surfaces turned towards the optic foramen) of these muscles are exa- mined, they will be seen to arise in a great measure from two common tendons which, from their position and connections, may be termed the superior and inferior common tendons of the recti muscles. The superior common tendon (Lockwood) springs from the upper and outer margin of the optic foramen, and gives origin to the superior rectus, the internal rectus, and the upper head of the external rectus. The inferior common tendon, more usually known as the " Ligament of Zinn," arises from a distinct depression upon the lower and outer aspect of the margin of the optic foramen, and divides into three slips, which go to the internal rectus, the inferior rectus, and the lower head of the external rectus. The slips, from the two common tendons which go to the external rectus become continuous with each other, forming in this way the tendinous arch referred to. A better view of these attachments may be obtained by dividing the optic nerve close to the optic foramen and turning forwards the eyeball. The manner in which the recti muscles are inserted into the eyeball should next be studied. Each ends in a delicate membranous tendon, which is inserted334 HEAD AND NECK. into the sclerotic, about a quarter of an inch behind the sclero-corneal junction. The Third Nerve.—The two divisions of this nerve enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the external rectus. The superior division has been traced to the rectus superior and the levator palpebral superioris. The inferior division is much the larger of the two, and almost immediately divides into three branches for the supply of the rectus internus, the rectus inferior, and the inferior oblique. The nerves to the two recti enter the ocular surfaces of these muscles ; the nerve to the inferior oblique is a long branch, which is prolonged forwards in the interval, between the rectus inferior and rectus externus, and enters the hinder border of the inferior oblique. Soon after its origin this branch gives the short motor root to the lenticular ganglion, and it likewise supplies two or three additional fila- ments to the inferior rectus. The Sixth Nerve will be found closely applied to the ocular surface of the external rectus, and it enters the orbit by passing through the narrow interval between the heads of this muscle. It is destined entirely for the supply of the rectus externus. Arrangement of the Nerves in the Sphenoidal Fissure.—Now that the orbit is dissected, and the various nerves which were met in the dissection of theINFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 335 cavernous sinus traced into the cavity, the dissector will observe that the arrangement of these nerves in the sphenoidal fissure is somewhat different from that in the sinus. The lachrymal, frontal, and fourth nerves enter the orbit above the muscles on very much the same plane. The other nerves enter between the heads of the external rectus. Of these the superior division of the third nerve is the highest, next comes the nasal nerve, then the inferior division of the third nerve, whilst the sixth nerve occupies the lowest level. Inferior Oblique Muscle.—This muscle is placed very differently from the other muscles of the orbit. It is situated below the eyeball, and turns round its inferior and outer surface. It must be dissected from the front. It is necessary therefore to restore the eye- ball to its natural place. Next, evert the lower eye- lid and remove the conjunctiva from its deep surface as it is reflected on to the globe of the eye. A little dissection in the floor of the fore part of the orbit and the removal of some fat will reveal the inferior oblique muscle. The inferior oblique muscle arises from a small de- pression on the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone immediately to the outer side of the opening of the nasal duct. It passes outwards below the inferior rectus muscle, and inclining slightly backwards, ends in a thin, membranous tendon, which gains inser- tion into the outer aspect of the sclerotic coat of the336 HEAD AND NECK. eyeball under cover of the rectus externus. This insertion is not far from that of the superior oblique, but is placed farther back. A branch of the inferior division of the third nerve has been traced to the posterior margin of the inferior oblique muscle. The Capsule of Tenon is a firm, loose membrane in relation to the globe of the eye. Its connections are somewhat complicated, and they cannot be satis- factorily displayed in an ordinary dissection. It may be studied from a three-fold point of view—(i.) In its connection with the eyeball ; (2.) in its connections with the muscles inserted into the globe of the eye ; and (3.) in its connections with the walls of the orbit. The relation which the capsule of Tenon exhibits to the eyeball is very simple. The membrane is spread over the posterior five-sixths of the globe— the cornea alone being free from it. In front it lies under the ocular conjunctiva, with which it is intimately connected, and it ends by blending with the conjunctiva close to the margin of the cornea. Behind it fuses with the sheath of the optic nerve, where the latter pierces the sclerotic. The anterior surface of the membrane {i.e., the surface towards the globe of the eye) is smooth, and is connected to the eyeball by some soft yielding and humid areolar tissue. Its posterior surface is in contact with the orbital fat, to which it is loosely adherent, while farther forwards, as we have noted, this surface is firmly attached to the ocular conjunctiva. It is apparent, therefore, that by this membrane a socket is formed for theCAPSULE OF TENON. 337 eyeball, in which it can glide with the greatest freedom. The tendons of the various ocular muscles are inserted into the eyeball within this capsule, and they gain its interior by piercing the membrane opposite the equator of the globe. The lips of the openings through which the four recti muscles pass are prolonged backwards upon the muscles, in the form of sheaths, very much in the same manner that the infundibuli- form fascia is prolonged upon the spermatic cord from the internal abdominal ring. These sheaths gradually become more and more attenuated, until at last they blend with the perimysium of the muscular bellies. In the case of the superior oblique the corresponding prolongation is only related to its reflected portion ; it reaches the pulley and there it ends by becoming attached to its margin. The sheath of the inferior oblique may be traced upon the muscle as far as the floor of the orbit. But Mr. Lockwood has recently pointed out that the inner or ocular edge of each of the four apertures through which the recti muscles pass is strengthened by a vertical slip of fibrous tissue, and to these he gives the name of " intra-capsular ligaments." The importance of these ligaments will be understood when we remember that the capsule of Tenon is at various points firmly bound to the bony wall of the orbit. They therefore act as pulleys, and protect the globe of the eye from pressure during contraction of the muscles. The aperture for the superior oblique is not furnished with an intra-capsular ligament, and it is doubtful PART III. £338 HEAD AND NECK. if the opening for the inferior oblique possesses one. The connections of the capsule of Tenon to the walls of the orbital cavity are very complicated. The suspensory ligament described by Mr. Lockwood is perhaps the most important of these. It stretches across the fore part of the orbit after the fashion of a hammock, and gives support to the eyeball. Its two extremities are narrow, and are attached respect- ively to the malar and lachrymal bones. Below the eyeball it widens out and blends with the capsule of Tenon. The external and internal check ligaments also constitute bonds of union between the capsule of Tenon and the orbital wall. They are strong bands which pass from the sheaths around the external and internal recti muscles to obtain attachment to the malar and lachrymal bones respectively ; here they are brought into association with the extremities of the suspensory ligament. The function of the check ligaments is easily understood. They limit the con- traction of the external and internal recti muscles, and thus prevent excessive rotation of the eyeball in an outward or inward direction. There is a similar but less direct provision by means of which the action of the superior and inferior recti muscles is limited. The action of the former muscle is checked through its intimate connection with levator palpebral superi- ors in the fore part of the orbit; the action of the inferior rectus is checked through its connection with the suspensory ligament * * For further information regarding the capsule of Tenon theTEMPORO-MALAR NERVE. 339 Temporo - Malar Nerve. —In order that the temporo-malar, or orbital branch of the - superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, may be displayed in its course through the orbit, the orbital contents must be removed. It will then be found in the midst of a little soft fat in the angle between the floor and outer wall of the orbit. The temporo-malar nerve arises in the spheno- maxillary fossa, from the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, and it enters the orbit by passing through the spheno-maxillary fissure. It almost immediately divides into two terminal branches—viz., the temporal and the malar. The temporal branch runs forwards and upwards upon the outer wall of the orbit, under cover of the periosteum, and after receiving a communicating twig from the lachrymal nerve it enters the temporal canal of the malar bone. This conducts it to the fore part of the temporal region, where it has already been examined (pp. 9 and 247). The malar branch (subcutaneus malae) continues for- ward in the angle between the floor and outer wall of the orbit, and is finally conducted to the face by a minute canal which perforates the malar bone. Here it has been displayed in the dissection of the face (p. 221). student is referred to the admirable account which is given of its connections by Mr. Lockwood in vol. xx. Journal of Anatomy and Physiology. 1885. He points out how important it is for the surgeon in the operation for the removal of the upper jaw to carefully preserve the attachments of the suspensory ligament. If these be destroyed, there is a danger Of the eyeball sinking downwards to such an extent that it may afterwards be necessary to remove it.HEAD AND NECK. 34o PREVERTEBRAL REGION. The following are the structures to be displayed in this dissection :— Longus colli. Cervical nerves. Rectus capitis anticus major. Vertebral artery. Rectus capitis anticus minor. Vertebral vein. Intertransverse muscles. Dissection.—In order that we may obtain a proper view of the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles, it is necessary to make a somewhat compli- cated dissection. The fore part of the skull bearing the pharynx must be separated from the back part of the skull and cervical portion of the vertebral column. Place the preparation upside down, so that the cut margin of the skull rests upon the table, and, having divided the common carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve, and the sympathetic cord on each side at level of the neck of the first rib, draw the trachea and oesophagus, together with the great blood vessels and nerves, forwards from the anterior surface of the vertebral column. This separation must be effected right up to the base of the skull, but, as the posterior surface of the pharynx is merely bound to the prevertebral muscles by some loose areolar tissue, it can be very easily accomplished, and it will only be necessary to use the edge of the knife close to the skull. At this point great caution must be observed, otherwise the pharyngeal wall or the insertions of the prevertebral muscles will bePREVERTEBRAL REGION. 341 damaged. The base of the skull having been reached, the point of the knife should be carried across the basilar process of the occipital bone between the pharynx and vertebral muscles, so as to divide the thick investing periosteum. The basilar process must now be divided by means of a chisel. Still retaining the part upside down, place the skull so that its floor rests upon the end of a wooden block. Then apply the edge of the chisel to the under surface of the basilar process, adjust it accurately in the interval between pharyngeal wall and vertebral muscles, and with a wooden mallet drive it through the base of the skull, inclining it, at the same time, slightly backwards. The next step in the dissection consists in making two saw-cuts through the cranial wall. The head having been placed upon its side, the saw must be applied vertically to the outer aspect of the skull half- an-inch behind the mastoid process, and carried obliquely forwards and inwards to reach a point immediately behind the jugular foramen. The same saw-cut must be repeated upon the opposite side of the head. To complete the dissection the dissector must again have recourse to the chisel. Placing the prepar- ation so that the floor of the cranium looks upwards, divide the base of the skull, on each side, in the interval between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar portion of the occipital. In front, this cut should reach the outer extremity of the incision already made through the basilar process ;342 HEAD AND NECK. whilst behind, it should be carried backwards upon the inner side of the jugular foramen to reach the inner end of the saw-cut. When this has been done upon both sides of the basilar process, the fore part of the skull carrying the pharynx, and the great blood vessels and nerves can be separated from the back part of the skull and cervical portion of the vertebral column. The only large nerve which will be divided is the hypoglossal, but as it is cut close to the basis cranii, and below this it is firmly connected with the trunk ganglion of the vagus, it retains its position. The pharynx and anterior portion of the skull should now be covered with a piece of cloth soaked in the spirit and carbolic solution, and the whole enveloped in an oil-cloth wrapper. It can then be laid aside until the dissection of the prevertebral region and the ligaments of the cervical vertebrae and the occiput have been studied. Returning to the posterior part of the skull and the cervical portion of the spine, the dissector should proceed to define the attachments of the muscles which lie in front of the transverse processes and the bodies of the vertebrae. These are three in number on each side, viz. :— 1. The longus colli. 2. The rectus capitis anticus major. 3. The rectus capitis anticus minor. The Longus Colli is the most powerful of these, and it lies nearest to the mesial plane. Its con- nections are somewhat intricate, but when it has been343 THE LONGUS COLIJ. thoroughly cleaned it will be seen to consist of three portions—viz., an upper and lower oblique part, and an intermediate vertical part. The lozver oblique division of the longus colli (Fig. 36, b) arises from the lateral aspect of the bodies of the upper two or three dorsal vertebrae. It extends upwards and slightly outwards, and ends in two tendinous slips which are inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. In the interval between this portion of the longus colli and the scalenus anticus, the vertebral artery will be observed. The upper oblique part of the longus colli (Fig. 36, c) arises by three tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and tapers some- what as it proceeds upwards and inwards, to obtain a pointed and tendinous insertion into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The vertical part of the muscle (Fig. 36, a) is much the largest of the three divisions, and it lies along the inner side of the oblique portions, with both of which it is more or less intimately connected. Thus below, it arises in common with the inferior oblique part by two or three slips from the sides of the bodies of the upper two or three dorsal vertebrae; above this it derives additional slips of origin from the bodies of the lower two cervical vertebrae; lastly, its outer border is rein- forced by slips from the transverse processes of the lower three .or four cervical vertebrae. It stretches vertically upwards and is inserted upon the inner344 HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 36. Prevertebral region.—{From Luschka.) (li) Scalenus anticus. (7) Scalenus medius. (8) Scalenus posticus. (H) Phrenic nerve. (10) Brachial nerves. (11) Subclavian artery (12) Intertransverse muscles. (1) Rectus capitis anticus major. (•J) Kectus capitis anticus minor, (:i) Rectus lateralis. /11. Vertical part. (4) Luiijfus colli \ A. Lower oblique part. \ c. Tipper oblique part. (.")) A supernumerary muscle frequently pres. cut, and called by Luschka, musculus trausvcrsalis cervicis Anticus,THE RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR. 345 side of the upper oblique part of the muscle, by three tendinous processes, which obtain attachment to the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Major (Fig. 36, 1) is an elongated muscle which arises by four tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the tranverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted in front of the foramen magnum, upon the under aspect of the basilar process of the occipital bone. To reach this insertion the muscle inclines slightly inwards as it ascends upon the front of the vertebral column. It is supplied by twigs from the first loop of the cervical plexus. The Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor (Fig. 36, 2, and 37, b) is a very minute muscle. It is in great part concealed by the upper part of the preceding muscle, which should be detached from its insertion, and turned downwards so as to bring it fully into view. It arises from the anterior aspect of the root of the transverse process of the atlas, and proceeding upwards and inwards is inserted into the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital,bone behind the rectus capitis anticus major. It is supplied by a filament from the first loop of the cervical plexus. Before proceeding farther, the dissector should again revise the attachments of the scalene muscles, (v. p. 151).346 HEAD AND NECK. Intertransverse Muscles and Cervical Nerves. —To obtain a proper display of the intertransverse muscles it will be necessary to remove the prevertebral and scalene muscles. The intertransverse muscles consist of seven pairs of small fleshy slips, on each side, Fig. 37. The intertransverse muscles.-(^w« Ckuveilh.er, slightly modified.) (d) Anterior primary divisions of cervical (a) Rectus lateralis. (6) Rectus capitis anticus minor, (c) Intertransverse musules. nerves. which connect the bifid extremities of the cervical transverse processes (Fig. 37. 4 The anterior sliP of each muscle is attached to the anterior tubercles of two adjacent transverse processes; whilst the posterior slip extends between the posterior tubercles. The highestVERTEBRAL ARTERY. 347 pair of muscular slips lies between the atlas and the axis ; the lowest pair connects the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra with the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. The cervical nerves will be observed to have a very definite relation to the intertransverse muscles. The anterior primary branches of the lower six cervical nerves make their appearance by passing outwards between the two slips of the corresponding muscles. The posterior primary divisions of the same nerves turn backwards behind the posterior muscular slips. The upper two cervical nerves emerge from the spinal canal, as we have already noticed, differently from the others. They pass backwards over the neural arches of the atlas and axis respectively. The first or suboccipital nerve has been sufficiently examined at a previous stage of the dissection (p. 303); but the dissector is now in a position to observe that the anterior primary division of the second cervical nerve turns forwards under cover of the posterior slip of the first intertransverse muscle, and winds round the outer side of the vertebral artery, to appear behind the anterior slip of the same muscle. Vertebral Artery.—Remove the intertransverse muscles as well as the muscles still attached to the transverse process of the atlas—viz., the rectus lateralis, the inferior oblique, and the superior oblique. The anterior tubercles and anterior roots of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and348 HEAD AND NECK. sixth cervical vertebrae should then be snipped off by the bone pliers. The vertebral artery has pre- viously been traced to the point where it disappears through the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra; it is now seen to proceed vertically upwards through the vertebra-arterial foramina until it reaches the foramen in the transverse process of the axis. In this it is directed outwards in order that it may gain the more outwardly placed foramen of the atlas. Upon the upper surface of the atlas it again changes its direction and proceeds back- wards, behind the lateral mass, in a groove on the upper surface of the posterior arch of that bone. Finally, it turns forwards under the posterior occipito- atlantal ligament, pierces the dura mater, and enters the cranium through the foramen magnum. The vertebral artery is accompanied by the vertebral vein and by a sympathetic plexus of nerves derived from the inferior cervical ganglion. The anterior divisions of the lower six cervical nerves pass outwards behind it ; the corresponding division of the first cervical nerve passes forwards internal to it, whilst that of the second nerve turns forward upon its outer aspect; lastly, the posterior primary division of the first cervical nerve enters the suboccipital triangle of the neck by passing backwards between the artery and the neural arch of the atlas. The branches which are given off by the vertebral artery in the neck are of small size. They are {a) muscular, (b) lateral spinal. The muscular twigs go to the muscles in the349 VERTEBRAL JOINTS. neighbourhood. The lateral spinal branches enter the spinal canal upon the cervical nerves, and have been described on p. 81. The Vertebral Vein does not take origin within the cranium. It merely accompanies the artery in the cervical part of its course. Its radicles arise in the suboccipital region, where they anastomose with the tributaries of the occipital and deep cervical veins. Inferiorly the vertebral vein opens into the innominate vein (p. 163). VERTEBRAL AND CRANIO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. The muscles must now be completely removed in order that the vertebral and cranio-vertebral joints, and the ligaments in connection with the cervical portion of the spine may be examined. The axis, atlas, and occipital bone present a series of articula- tions in which the uniting apparatus is very different from that of the vertebrae below. The lower five Cervical Vertebrae are united together very much upon the same plan as the vertebrae in other regions of the vertebral column. Both bodies and neural arches are connected by distinct articulations and special ligaments. Bodies.—Three separate joints may be said to exist between the opposed surfaces of the bodies of two350 ' HEAD AND NECK. adjacent vertebrae—viz., a central amphiarthrodial joint and two small lateral diarthrodial joints (Luschka). The amphiarthrodial joint (Fig. 38) occupies by far the greatest part of the space which exists between the vertebral bodies, and it presents the usual characters of such an articulation. The opposed bony surfaces are coated by a thin layer of hyaline or encrusting cartilage, and are brought into direct union by an interposed Fig. 38. Coronal section through the bodies of two cervical vertebra:. (a a) The two lateral diarthrodifl) joints between the bodies of two vertebra. disc of fibro-cartilage. The intervertebral discs are distinctly deeper in front than behind, and upon this the cervical curvature in great measure depends. The two diarthrodial joints are placed one on each side, where the disc of fibro-cartilage fails. They are of small extent, and are confined entirely to the intervals between the projecting lateral lips of the upper surface of the centrum, and the bevelled off lateral margins of the lower surface of the vertebral351 VERTEBRAL JOINTS. body immediately above. Here the bony surfaces are coated with encrusting cartilage, and are separated by a synovial cavity protected on the outer side by a feeble capsular ligament (Fig. 38, a, a). The ligaments which bind the bodies of the five lower cervical vertebrae together are the direct continu- ation upwards of the anterior and the posterior common ligaments of the spine. In the removal of the spinal cord, the laminae of the vertebrae below the axis have been taken away so that very little dissection will be required to make out the connections of both of these ligaments. The anterior common ligament is a strong band placed in front of the vertebral bodies. It is more firmly fixed to the intervening intervertebral discs than to the bones. The posterior common ligament which lies on the posterior aspect of the vertebral bodies consti- tutes the anterior boundary of the spinal canal. In the cervical region it completely covers the bodies of the vertebrae and does not present the denticulated appearance which is so characteristic of it lower down. It is chiefly attached to the cartilaginous discs and the adjacent margins of the bones. Neural arches.—The neural arches of the lower five cervical vertebrae are bound together by («.) the articulations between the articular processes; (b.) ligamenta subflava; (c.) by interspinous ligaments; and (d.) intertransverse ligaments. The joints between the opposing articular processes are of the diarthrodial variety. The surfaces of bone are coated with encrusting cartilage ; there is a joint cavity lined by synovial membrane, and surrounded by352 HEAD AND NECK. a distinct capsular ligament. This ligament is more laxly arranged in the neck than in the lower regions of the spine. The ligamenta subflava may be examined on the laminse which were removed for the display of the spinal cord, and which the dissector was directed to retain. In this specimen they may be studied in the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar regions of the spine. They fill up the gaps between the laminae of the vertebrae, and can be best seen when the fore aspect of the specimen is viewed. They are composed of yellow elastic tissue, and each ligament is attached superiorly to the anterior surface and inferior margin of the lamina of the vertebra above, whilst inferiorly it is fixed to the posterior surface and superior margin of the lamina of the vertebra next below. In this way they form with the laminae a smooth, even, posterior wall for the spinal canal. Each ligament extends from the posterior part of the articular processes to the mesial plane where it is in contact by a free thickened inner border with its neighbour of the opposite side. The mesial slit between them in each interneural space is filled by some lax connective tissue, and it allows the egress from the spinal canal of some small veins. The width of the ligaments in the different regions of the spine depends upon the size of the spinal canal. Thus they are widest in the neck and in the lumbar part of the column. The ligamenta subflava, by virtue of their great strength and elasticity, are powerful agents in maintaining the curvatures of the spine ; they are also a valuable aid to the muscles in restoring the353 CRANIO-VERTEBRAL JOINTS. spine to its original position after it has been bent in a forward direction. The interspinous ligaments are most strongly developed in the lumbar regions, where they fill up the intervals between the adjacent margins of contiguous spinous processes. In the dorsal region, and more especially in the neck, they are very weak. The supraspinous ligaments are thickened bands which connect the summits of the spinous processes. In the neck they are replaced by the ligamentum nuchse (p. 65). The intertransverse ligaments are feebly marked in the cervical region, and extend chiefly between the anterior bars of the transverse processes. Axis, Atlas, and Occipital Bone—The articula- tions which exist between these three bones all belong to the diarthrodial class. Between the atlas and axis there are three such joints—viz., a pair between the opposed articular processes, and a third between the anterior face of the odontoid process and the posterior face of the anterior arch of the atlas. Between the atlas and occipital bone there are a pair of joints—viz., between the occipital condyles above and the elliptical cavities upon the upper aspect of the lateral masses of the atlas. The ligaments connecting these three bones together may be divided into three main groups as follows :— PART III.HEAD AND NECK. Anterior atlanto-axial. Posterior atlanto-axial. \ Capsular. Ligaments connecting J Transverse portion of the cruci- atlas with axis, . • ] form ligament. Accessory ligamentsof the atlanto- v axial joints. Ligaments connecting , Anterior OC^J*^ occipital bone with] Postenor occ.p.to-atlantal. atlas ■ • • (CaPsular- . . • , 3 ' , Posterior occipito-axial. Ligaments connecting Appendices superior and mfer.or Occipital hone * th ^Jo^ec, axis, \ Suspensory. The ligaments which are placed m relation to the exterior of the vertebrae ^^Lo-^ These are the anterior and posterior and the anterior and posterior occptto-arian a,, four capsular ligaments may also be more satisfactorily studied at the same t.me. The Anterior ^^J^^t 39;,) may be regarded as 7 common I "Tofi ;Tn: Belt is attached to the ligament of the spine ^ ft B fore aspect of the body of theaxis an(J feed to the anterior arch of the atas U strong in the middle but thins off towmds Posterior ^^f^Z^ the interval between the lamin* of theCRANIO-VERTEBRAL JOINTS. 355 and the posterior arch of the atlas, to the contiguous margins of which it is attached. It is broad and membranous, and is the representative, as its attach- Fig. 39. Mesial section through the basilar process of occipital bone, the atlas and the axis.—{From Luschka, slightly modified.) (a) Dura mater. (6) Vertebral artery and first cervical nerve. (c) Second cervical nerve. (d) Posterior occipito-axial ligament. (e) Basilar process of occipital bone. (/) Anterior occipito-atlantal ligament. (g) Two parts of the suspensory odontoid ligament. {h) Appendix superior, (i) Anterior arch of atlas, (t) Transverse ligament. (I) Anterior atlanto-axial ligament. {m) Appendix inferior. (n) Lenticular disc of cartilage between the- body of the axis and the odontoid process. Between the posterior occipito-axial ligament and the transverse ligament a small' synovial bursa may be seen. ments show, of the ligamenta subflava. It is pierced on each side by the second cervical nerve as this passes backwards over the neural arch of the axis.356 HEAD AND NECK. The Atlantoaxial Capsular Ligaments can be examined from the outside. They are somewhat lax, and on removing the outer part of each, the joint cavities will be opened into (Fig. 40). The Anterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament (Figs. 39, f) extends from the upper border of the anterior arch of the atlas to the under surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone in front of the foramen magnum. On each side of the mesial plane it is thin and membranous, and stretches outwards so as to abut against the capsular ligament. In the middle line there is an exceedingly strong cord-like band which stands out in strong relief from the rest of the ligament, and is carried downwards to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. Part of its fibres are attached to this, but a certain proportion become con- tinuous with the central thickening of the anterior atlanto-axial ligament, and through this, with the anterior common ligament of the spine. The Posterior Occipito-atlantal Ligament is a thin and weak membrane which occupies the wide CTap between the posterior arch of the atlas and the posterior border of the foramen magnum, to both of which it is attached. It is very firmly connected with the dura mater, and is so feebly developed that it is a matter of some difficulty to show it as a distinct layer after the latter has been removed. On each side it reaches the capsular ligament. Over each of the grooves on the posterior arch of the atlas for theCRANIO-VERTEBRAL JOINTS. 357 vertebral arteries it is deficient; here its lower border forms an arch, under which the vessel and the first cervical nerve pass. The Occipito-atlantal Capsular Ligaments (Fig. 40, a) connect the occipital condyles with the lateral masses of the atlas. They completely surround the joints, and are connected in front with the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and behind with the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The occipital bone, therefore, round the foramen magnum is attached by special ligaments to each of the four portions of the atlas—viz., to the anterior arch, to the two lateral masses, and to the posterior arch. Dissection.—The remaining ligaments are placed within the spinal canal in connection with its anterior wall. For their proper display it is therefore necessary to remove with the bone pliers the laminae of the axis, and the posterior arch of the atlas. The tabular part of the occipital bone must, likewise, be taken away by sawing it through, on each side, immediately behind the jugular eminence and the condyle, and carrying the saw into the foramen magnum. The upper part of the tube of dura mater which still remains in the spinal canal must next be carefully detached. A broad membranous band stretching upwards over the posterior aspect of the body and odontoid process of the axis is displayed. This is the posterior occipito-axial ligament.HEAD AND NECK. 358 The Posterior Occipito-axial Ligament (Figs. 39, d, and 40, d and e) is a broad ligamentous sheet which is attached below to the posterior aspect of the body of the axis vertebra, where it is con- Fig. 40. Ligaments on the anterior wall of the spinal canal which connect the: occipital bone, the atlas, and axis.-^From Luschka, slightly modified.) (a) Portion of the occipito-atlantal capsular ligament. (6) Appendix superior of the cruciform liga- ment cut across. (c) Appendix inferior of the cruciform ligament. id) Lower part of posterior occipito-axial liga- ment thrown downwards. (c) Upper part of the posterior occipito-axial ligament thrown upwards. tinuous with the posterior common ligament of the spine It extends upwards, covering completely the odontoid process and the anterior margin of the foramen magnum, and is attached above to the If) Upper attachment of appendix superior. (g) Hypoglossal nerve. (h) Two parts of the Buspensory odontoid- ligament. (i) Alar or check ligament, (ft) Odontoid process. (I) Transverse ligament. (m) Accessory atlauto-axial ligament.THE CRUCIFORM LIGAMENT. 359 posterior grooved surface of the basilar process of the occipital bone. Detach this ligament from the axis and throw it upwards upon the basilar process. By this proceeding the accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial joints and the cruciform ligament are brought into view, and very little further dissection is required to define them. The Accessory Atlanto-axial Ligaments (Fig. 40, m) (ligamenta lateralia inferiord) are two strong bands which take origin from the posterior aspect of the body of the axis vertebra close to the base of the odontoid process. Each band passes upwards and outwards, and is attached to the inner and hinder part of the lateral mass of the atlas. To a certain extent they assist the odontoid check ligaments in limiting the rotatory movement of the atlas upon the axis. The Cruciform Ligament (Fig. 40) is composed of a transverse and a vertical part. The transverse ligament is by far the most important constituent of this apparatus (Figs. 39, k, 40, /, and 41, d). It is a strong band which stretches from the tubercle on the inner aspect of the lateral mass of the atlas to the corresponding tubercle on the opposite side. With the anterior arch of the atlas it forms a ring which encloses the odontoid process—the pivot around which the atlas with the head turns. It is separated from the posterior aspect of the odontoid process by a loose synovial membrane which extends forward on each side until it almost reaches the synovial membrane in360 HEAD AND NECK. connection with the mesial joint between the odontoid process and the anterior arch of the atlas (Fig. 41, b and c). Indeed in some cases a communication exists between the two synovial cavities. The vertical part of the cruciform ligament consists of an upper and a lower limb, which are termed the Fig. 41. Transverse section through the atlas and odontoid process.-(^«w« Cruveilhier, slightly modified.) (a) Odontoid process. (6) Synovial cavity between the odontoid pro- cess and anterior arch of atlas. (c) Synovial cavity between the odontoid pro- cess and the transverse ligament. (<2) Transverse ligament. (e) Posterior occipito-axial ligament. (f) Vertebral vein. (g) Vertebral artery, (ft) Tube of dura mater. appendices or crura. Both are attached to the dorsal surface of the transverse ligament. The appe?idix superior is the longer and natter of the two, and extends upwards on the posterior aspect of the head of the odontoid process to be attached to the posterior aspect of the basilar process immediately beyond theTHE ALAR OR CHECK LIGAMENTS. 361 anterior margin of the foramen magnum (Figs. 39, hy and 40, b and f). The appendix inferior, very much shorter, extends downwards, and is fixed to the posterior aspect of the body of the axis vertebra (Figs. 39, m, and 40 c). Detach the appendix superior from the basilar process, and throw it downwards. The suspensory ligament is thus displayed, and a better view of the alar or check ligaments obtained. The Suspensory Ligament (Figs. 39,^", and 40, h) of the odontoid consists of two parts—an anterior and a posterior (Barkow). The posterior part is a rounded cord-like ligament which is attached below to the summit of the odontoid process, and above to the fore-margin of the foramen magnum. This liga- ment, inasmuch as it is developed around the con- tinuation of the chorda dorsalis from the odontoid to the basis cranii, is a structure of considerable morpho- logical interest. The a?iterior part of the suspensory ligament is a flat and weak band which is attached above to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum at the same point as the posterior portion. Below, the two portions are separated by an interval filled with cellular tissue, and the anterior part is attached to the odontoid process immediately above its articular facet for the anterior arch of the atlas. The Alar or Check Ligaments {ligamenta lateralia superiord) (Fig. 40, i) are very powerful bands which spring, one from each side of the summit of the362 HEAD AND NECK. odontoid process, and proceed outwards and slightly upwards to be attached to the inner aspect of the condyloid eminences of the occipital bone. They limit rotation of the head, and in this they are aided by the accessory atlanto-axial ligaments. MOUTH AND PHARYNX. The dissector must now return to the anterior part of the skull which had been laid aside while the dissection of the prevertebral region was going on. The mouth and pharynx should, in the first instance, engage his attention. The following are the parts which require, to be studied :— 1. The boundaries of the buccal cavity. 2. Pharyngeal plexus of veins. iThree constrictor muscles. Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus. Pharyngeal aponeurosis. Mucous membrane. 4. The interior of the pharynx. 5. Eustachian tube. 6. Soft palate. 7. Tonsil. Mouth.—The mouth is the entrance to or the vestibule of the alimentary canal. It is placed below the nose, in the lower part of the face, and its cavity is controlled by muscles which are under the influence of the will. The mouth consists of two sub-divisionsMOUTH AND PHARYNX. 363 —viz., a smaller anterior part which is bounded in front by the lips and cheeks, and behind by the teeth and gums, and a large part, the mouth proper, which is placed within the teeth. The mucous lining of the mouth should be thoroughly cleansed, and the two sub-divisions of the cavity examined from the front through the oral fissure. The anterior part of the mouth which passes round the teeth and gums is a mere fissure except when the cheeks are inflated with air. It is into this sub-division of the mouth that the parotid duct opens (p. 200). Above and below it is bounded by the reflection of the mucous membrane from the lips and cheeks on to the alveolar margins of the two maxillary bones. In front it opens upon the face by means of the oral fissure, whilst posteriorly, behind the last molar tooth, it com- municates on each side by means of a distinct aperture with the cavity of the mouth proper. When all the teeth are in place the existence of this communication is of importance in cases of spasmodic closure of the jaws, because through it fluids may be introduced into the posterior part of the buccal cavity. The mouth proper is that part of the buccal cavity which is placed within the teeth. It is bounded in front and laterally by the gums and teeth, whilst behind it communicates by means of the isthmus faucium with the pharynx (Fig. 42). The floor is formed by the tongue and the mucous membrane which stretches to this from the inner aspect of the lower jaw; the roof is vaulted, and is composed of the hard and soft palate (Fig. 42). When the mouth is364 HEAD AND NECK. closed the dorsum of the tongue is applied to the roof, and the cavity is almost completely obliterated. Into this part of the buccal cavity the ducts of the sub- maxillary glands (Wharton's ducts) and some of the Fig. 42. Mesial section through the nose, mouth, pharynx, and larynx.-^*;// Gegenbaur.) ducts of the sublingual glands (ducts of Rivini) open (pp. 270 and 271). The various parts which bound the oral cavity may now be examined in turn.THE CHEEKS. 365 LipS.—-The structure of the lips has in a great measure been already examined in the dissection of the face (p. 206). Each lip may be regarded as being composed of four layers. From before backwards these are—(1.) cutaneous; (2.) muscular; (3.) glandular; and (4.) mucous. The skin and mucous membrane become continuous with each other at the free margin of the lip. From the deep aspect of each lip the mucous membrane is reflected on to the alveolar margin of the corresponding jaw, and in the mesial plane it is raised in the form of a free fold. These folds are termed the frcenula ; in the dissection of the face they have been more or less destroyed. The muscular layer constitutes the chief bulk of the lips. It is formed by the orbicularis oris and the various muscles which converge to the mouth. The labial glands are very numerous and lie between the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres. In each lip there is an arterial arch formed by the corre- sponding coronary arteries (p. 225). The Cheeks have five layers entering into their construction, all of which have been examined in the dissection of the face. They are—(1.) skin, (2.) a fatty layer traversed by some of the facial muscles. (3.) the buccal aponeurosis, (4.) the buccinator, (5.) the mucous membrane. The buccal glands are very numerous and are situated between the buccinator muscle and the buccal aponeurosis (Sappey). Their ducts pierce the muscle and open upon the inner aspect of the mucous membrane. The buccal apon-HEAD AND NECK. 366 eurosis is a dense fascia which covers the buccinator muscle. Above and below it is attached to the alveolar portions of the maxillary bones, whilst behind it is continued backwards upon the side of the pharynx. The muscles which traverse the fatty layer are chiefly the zygomaticus major, the risorius, and the posterior fibres of the platysma. The parotid duct pierces the three inner layers of the cheek, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Gums and Teeth.—The mucous membrane of the gums is smooth, vascular, and firmly bound down to the subjacent periosteum of the alveolar portions of the jaws by a stratum of dense connective tissue. It is continuous on the one hand with the mucous membrane of the lips and cheeks, and on the other, with the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. The gum embraces closely the neck of each tooth. In the adult the teeth in each jaw number sixteen. From the middle line backwards, on each side, they are the two incisors, the canine, the two bicuspids, the three molars. Floor of the Mouth.—The mucous membrane is reflected from the inner aspect of the lower jaw, on to the side of the tongue, but in the fore part of the mouth the tongue lies free in the buccal cavity. Here the mucous membrane stretches across the floor from one side of the lower jaw to the other.ISTHMUS FAUCIUM. On each side of this region the projection formed by the sublingual gland can be distinguished. Further, if the tongue be pulled upwards, a mesial fold of mucous membrane will be seen to connect its under surface to the floor. This is the framum Ungues. The dissector must also look for the openings of Wharton's ducts. Each terminates in a papillary orifice placed close to the side of the fraenum. Farther back, between the side of the tongue and the jaw, are the openings of the ducts of Rivini. Roof of the Mouth.—The hard and the soft palate form a continuous concave and vaulted roof to the mouth (Fig. 42). Projecting from the middle of the posterior free margin of the soft palate, and resting upon the dorsum of the tongue, will be seen the uvula. The palate both hard and soft is traversed by a median ridge or raphe which terminates in front, opposite the anterior palatine foramen, in a slight elevation or papilla. In the anterior part of the hard palate the mucous membrane on each side of the raphe is thrown into three or four transverse hard corrugations or ridges ; behind this it is comparatively smooth. Isthmus faucium.—This is the name which is given to the communication between the buccal cavity and the pharynx (Fig. 42). To obtain a good view of it from the front, the mouth must be well opened and the tongue depressed.* It is bounded . * The isthmus faucium and the parts which bound it can best be examined in the living subject.368 HEAD AND NECK. above by the soft palate, below by the dorsum of the tongue, and on each side by two curved folds of mucous membrane termed respectively, the anterior and the posterior pillars of the fauces. The pillars of the fauces spring from the base of the uvula, and arch outwards and then downwards. The anterior pillar as it descends inclines forwards, and ends upon the side of the posterior part of the tongue ; the posterior pillar, more strongly marked, inclines backwards, and is lost upon the side of the pharynx. The former encloses the palato-glossus muscle, the latter the palato-pharyngeus. In the triangular interval which is formed by the divergence of these two folds will be observed the tonsil. Pharynx.—The pharynx is a wide musculo- aponeurotic canal 4J inches long, which extends from the base of the cranium to the level of the body of the sixth cervical vertebra. Here at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage it becomes continuous with the oesophagus. Placed behind the nasal cavities, the mouth and the larynx, it serves as the passage which conducts air to and from the larynx, as well as the food from the mouth to the oesophagus. To obtain a proper idea of its connec- tions, the dissector should moderately distend its walls by stuffing it with tow. This may be intro- duced either from above, through the mouth, or from below, through the oesophagus. The pharynx will now present a somewhat ovoidPHARYNX. 369 form. It is widest opposite the hyoid bone ; from this upwards it narrows slightly as it ascends to the basis cranii. When traced in an opposite direction its width diminishes rapidly and uniformly, until it gives place to the oesophagus. Posteriorly its wall is complete, and when in position rests upon the upper five cervical vertebrae and the prevertebral muscles. To these it is bound by some lax connective tissue which offers no barrier to the movements of the canal during the process of deglutition. Laterally, the pharynx is related to the great vessels and nerves of the neck as well as to the styloid process and the muscles which take origin from it. These structures have all been dissected at a previous stage and have been retained. The dissector can, therefore, readily appreciate these important relationships. The vessels are the internal and common carotid arteries, the ascending pharyngeal artery, and the internal jugular vein ; the nerves are the three divisions of the eighth cranial nerve—(vagus, spinal accessory, and glosso- pharyngeal), the hypoglossal nerve, and the sympa- thetic cord. Upon this aspect of the pharynx also is placed the pharyngeal plexus of nerves, which supplies its walls with motor and sensory twigs. In front the pharyngeal wall is interrupted by the open- ings of the nose, mouth, and larynx, and it is to the structures which lie in proximity to these apertures that it derives its principal attachment. Thus from above downwards it is fixed—(a.) to the internal pterygoid plate; (£.) to the pterygo-maxillary ligament; (c.) to the side of the tongue ; (d.) to the inner aspect part in. 2 B370 HEAD AND NECK. of the lower jaw ; (*.) to the hyoid bone ; (/) to the thyroid cartilage ; (g.) to the cricoid cartilage. Above it is attached to the basis cranii. These various attachments will be studied more fully when we dissect the constituents which enter into the con- struction of its wall. It should be noted that a false idea of the natural form of the pharynx is obtained when it is examined in its present stuffed condition and apart from the vertebral column against which it rests. When seen in transverse sections of the frozen body it will be observed that with the exception of its upper or nasal part, which remains under all condi- tions tolerably patent, the .anterior wall is in contact with the posterior wall, and it presents the appearance of a simple transverse slit. Pharyngeal Wall—The wall of the pharynx may be said to consist of three well-marked strata—viz., an external muscular, an intermediate aponeurotic, and an internal mucous. The muscular layer which is composed of the three constrictor muscles, with the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus on each side, should first be dissected. For this purpose, place the preparation so that the chin rests upon a block, and the pharynx hangs downwards with its posterior surface towards the dissector. The constrictor muscles should now be carefully cleaned in the direction of the muscular fibres, by removing the fascia which covers them. This areolar coating is sometimes spoken of under the name of the tunica pharyngis externa, more371 CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. frequently however, it is called the bucco-pharyngeal fascia* seeing that it is continuous in front with the buccal aponeurosis. Upon the posterior and lateral wall of the pharynx the dissector will not fail to notice numerous veins joined together in a plexiform manner. These constitute the pharyngeal venous plexus, which collects blood from the pharynx, soft palate, and prevertebral region, and communicates with the pterygoid plexus. Two or more channels lead the blood from it to the internal jugular vein (p. 285). This venous plexus together with the pharyngeal plexus of nerves will require to be re- moved in order to display the muscles properly. Constrictor Muscles.—The constrictor muscles are three flat sheets of muscular fibres which are so arranged that they overlap each other from below upwards ; thus the inferior constrictor overlaps the lower part of the middle constrictor, whilst the middle constrictor in turn overlaps the lower part of the superior constrictor. The three muscles are inserted in the mesial plane into a median raphe, which descends from the basilar process of the occipital bone along the posterior aspect of the pharynx. The inferior constrictor is narrow in front at its origin, but it spreads out as it passes backwards towards its insertion. It arises by two heads ; of these the lower springs from the posterior part of the * The bucco-pharyngeal aponeurosis is not to be confounded with the prevertebral fascia, which forms a distinct lamina, behind it (p. in).372 HEAD AND NECK. side of the cricoid cartilage, whilst the upper and larger head takes origin from the inferior cornu, Profile view of the pharynx to sho/th" constrictor muscles.-{From Turner.) im\ Crico-thyroid. (a) Buccinator. (6) Tensor palati. (c) Levator palati. (d) Superior constrictor, (c) Middle constrictor. (/) Inferior constrictor. (g) Thyro-hyoid. (ft) Hyo-glossus. (k) Stylo-hyoid. (I) Mylo-liyoid. (m) Crico-thyroid. Stylo-pliaryngeus. (0) Stylo-glossus. (p) Stylo-hyoid ligament. (q) Pterygo-maxillary ligament, (1) Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. (2) Superior laryngeal artery. (3) Superior laryngeal nerve. (4) External laryngeal nerve. (5) Inferior laryngeal nerve and artery. (I) Mylo-hyoui. _ the oblique line of the ala, and the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle curves backwardsCONSTRICTOR MUSCLES. 373 round the pharyngeal wall to meet its fellow of the opposite side in the median raphe. The lower fibres take a horizontal direction, but the remainder ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, until the highest fibres reach the raphe at a point a short distance below the basis cranii. The lower margin of the inferior constrictor overlaps the commencement of the oesophagus, and passing upwards under cover of it so as to reach the larynx, will be seen the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery. The middle constrictor is a fan-shaped muscle. Narrow, and pointed in front, it arises from the great and small cornua of the hyoid bone as well as from the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this its fibres radiate widely, and pass round the pharyngeal wall, to be inserted with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side into the median raphe. The lower portion of this muscle is overlapped by the inferior constrictor, and in the interval which separates the margins of the two muscles in front, the internal laryngeal nerve and the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery will be seen piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane to gain the interior of the larynx. The superior constrictor possesses a somewhat com- plicated origin, and to bring this fully into view, it will be necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle about its middle, and turn the upper and lower portions aside. In doing this, be careful of the small tensor palati muscle which lies immediately subjacent to the internal pterygoid.374 HEAD AND NECK. The superior constrictor has a weak, but continuous line of origin, from the following parts—viz., (a.) the lower third of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate, and the hamular process ; (b.) the pterygo-maxillary ligament which is common to it, and the buccinator muscle; (c.) the posterior end of the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner aspect of the lower jaw; (d.) the mucous membrane of the mouth, and side of the tongue. From this somewhat exten- sive origin, the fibres curve backwards to reach the mesial raph6, whilst, as a rule, some of the highest gain a distinct insertion into the pharyngeal tubercle, on the under surface of the basi-occipital. The lower part of the superior constrictor is over- lapped by the middle constrictor, and in the interval between the two muscles will be seen the stylo- pharyngeus as it passes downwards under cover of the middle constrictor (p. 279). In the same interval will be seen the glossopharyngeal nerve. The upper border of the muscle is free and crescentic, and it falls short of the basis cranii. The Pterygo-maxillary Ligament can now be studied. It is a strong, narrow, tendinous band, which extends from the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, to the posterior part of the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. It acts as a tendinous bond of union between the buccinator and superior constrictor, and its connections can be best appreci- ated by introducing the finger into the mouth and pressing outwards along its course.PHARYNGEAL APONEUROSIS. 375 Sinus of Morgagni.—This is the name which is applied to the semilunar space which intervenes between the upper crescentic margin of the superior constrictor and the basis cranii. The deficiency in the muscular wall of the pharynx at this point is compensated for by the increased strength of the pharyngeal aponeurosis. In contact with the outer surface of the aponeurosis, a little dissection will display two muscles belonging to the soft palate— viz., the levator palati, and the tensor palati. The levator is rounded and fleshy, and lies behind the tensor, which is flatter and more tendinous. The latter can readily be recognised, from its position in relation to the deep surface of the internal ptery- goid muscle, and from its tendon winding inwards under the hamular process. In the upper part of the space, close to the basis cranii, and in intimate relationship to the origin of the two muscles, will be seen the Eustachian tube. Pharyngeal Aponeurosis. — The pharyngeal aponeurosis is strongly marked in its upper part, and maintains the integrity of the wall of the pharynx where the muscular fibres are absent. As it is traced downwards it gradually becomes weaker, until it is ultimately lost as a distinct layer. It lies between the muscles and mucous membrane, and only comes to the surface where the muscles are absent. It is the principal means by which the pharynx is attached to the base of the skull. Thus it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital bone, to> the apex of the376 . HEAD AND NECK. petrous bone, and also to the cartilage which inter- venes between these bones. Interior of the Pharynx.—The pharynx should now be opened by a vertical and mesial incision through the entire length of the posterior wall. At the upper extremity of this cut, the knife should be carried transversely outwards, close to the basis cranii, so as to divide the attachment of the posterior wall to the basi-occipital bone. The stuffing should be removed, and the mucous surface of the pharynx cleansed. The roof of the pharynx will be seen to be formed by the basilar process of the occipital bone, covered by a dense periosteum, and a thick coating of mucous membrane. It is important to note that the posterior wall and the roof of the pharynx can be explored by the finger introduced through the mouth. The mucous membrane, or innermost stratum which enters into the construction of the pharyngeal wall, is now exposed, and the dissector will note that it is continuous through the various apertures with the mucous membrane of the nasal fossae, of the Eustach- ian tubes, of the buccal cavity, of the larynx, and of the oesophagus. The glands in connection with the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx are of two kinds—viz., racemose and follicular. The racemose glands will be noticed to form a thick layer on the lateral and posterior aspects of the upper part of the pharyngeal wall. They gradually diminish in number as they are377 INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. followed downwards, and opposite the isthmus faucium they are separated from each other by considerable intervals. The follicular glands are similar in character to those which are observed on the root of the tongue, and to those which constitute the tonsils. In some localities they occur in an isolated condition, in others they are collected together into masses of different sizes. One aggregation of con- siderable size is placed upon the upper part of the posterior wall of the pharynx, where this joins the roof. It is termed the pharyngeal tonsil (Luschka), and is of some clinical importance. It is oval in form, and about half-an-inch in length. The soft palate which hangs like a curtain over the isthmus faucium may be regarded as dividing the pharynx into an upper and lower part. The upper portion lies behind the nasal fossae, and presents four apertures—viz., the two posterior nares, and the two mouths of the Eustachian tubes. The posterior nares are two large oval openings placed immediately below the base of the skull, and looking directly backwards into the pharynx. They constitute the communication between the nasal fossae and the pharynx, and are' separated from each other by the thin posterior border of the vomer bone. The vertical diameter of each opening measures about one inch, whilst the transverse diameter at the widest part is about half-an-inch. By looking through the posterior nares the dissector may obtain a partial view of the two lower meatuses of the nose, and of the posterior extremities of the middle and inferior turbinated bones.378 HEAD AND NECK. The orifices of the Eustachian tubes are placed one on either side of the pharynx, behind the lower part of the posterior nares. The level at which these apertures lie, may be said to correspond closely with that of the posterior extremities of the inferior turbin- ated bones. The orifice of the Eustachian tube is. bounded above and on the inner or posterior side, by a high rounded prominent margin, which is altogether deficient below and externally—a condition of affairs which favours very materially the passage of the Eustachian catheter* Below the soft palate there are three mesial open- ings into the pharynx—viz, the opening of the fauces, the opening of the larynx and the opening into the oesophagus. The isthmus faucium has already been studied from the front, and its boundaries have been described. It should now be carefully examined from behind, and the dissector should notice how greatly the size of the aperture varies in accordance to the position of the soft palate, p. 367. The laryngeal opening is placed below the isthmus faucium. It is a large obliquely placed aperture, which slopes from above downwards and backwards. Somewhat triangular in form, it is broadest in front; here it is bounded by the uprightly placed epiglottis. Behind it is narrow, and ends in the interval between * An Eustachian catheter can be very readily improvised by bending the extremity of an ordinary blowpipe. The d.ssector is recommended to practise the passage of this instrument into the Eustachian tube through the nose.379 SOFT PALATE. the two arytenoid cartilages ; on either side stretches a sharp fold of mucous membrane called the aryteno- epiglottidean fold. During deglutition the epiglottis is folded backwards over this opening like a valve or a lid. The oesophageal opening is placed opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. This is the narrowest part of the pharynx. Soft Palate.—The soft palate is a movable curtain, which intervenes between the buccal cavity and the pharynx. During deglutition, however, it is raised so as to shut off the upper nasal part of the pharynx, from the portion below, and at the same time open up the isthmus faucium. In front it is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate ; laterally it is connected with the sides of the pharynx, whilst posteriorly it presents a free border. From the centre of this free margin the conical elevation termed the uvula projects. The upper surface of the soft palate is convex and continuous with the floor of the nasal fossae ; the inferior surface is concave and continuous with the vaulted roof of the mouth. Upon the latter surface may be seen a slightly marked mesial ridge or raphe, which indicates the original separation of the structure into two parts. The soft palate is composed of a fold of mucous membrane, between the two layers of which are interposed muscular, aponeurotic and glandular structures, together with blood-vessels and nerves.HEAD AND NECK. 38o iThe two levatores palati. The two tensores palati. The two palato-glossi. The two palato-pharyngei. The azygos uvulae. Palatal aponeurosis. Palatal glands. Ascending palatine from facial. ( Palatine branch from ascending pharyngeal. Arteries, . J Tw[^s from the descending palatine branch V of the internal maxillary. / , . (from the spheno- Small or posterior palatine, J ,«.•„:•„ Nerves, • | External palatine, . . ) ^ The dissection of the soft palate is very difficult, and it is only in a fresh part that the precise relations of the different muscular layers can be identified. Begin by rendering it tense by means of a hook, and then remove carefully the mucous membrane from its upper and lower surfaces, and also from the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. The latter proceeding will expose the palato-glossus and the palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The palatine glands will be chiefly found on the upper surface of the soft palate, and around the uvula. The Palato-Glossus is a delicate muscular slip, which arises from the side of the posterior part of the tongue, and curves upwards and inwards to reach the under surface of the soft palate. Here its fibres spread out, and become continuous with the corre-SOFT PALATE. 33i sponding fasciculi of the opposite side. It forms the lowest muscular stratum of the soft palate. The Palato - Pharyngeus forms two muscular strata in the soft palate which enclose between them the azygos uvulae and the levator palati muscles. The upper layer is very weak, and confined to the posterior part of the velum. It constitutes the most superficial muscular stratum on this aspect of the pal- ate, and becomes continuous with the corresponding portion of the muscle of the opposite side. The deeper layer takes origin from the posterior margin of the palate bone and from the palatal aponeurosis, while some of its fibres mingle with those of the correspond- ing muscle of the opposite side. Outside the soft palate the two strata come together, and are joined by one or two delicate muscular slips which spring from the lower border of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. These slips are sometimes described as the salpingo-pharyngeus muscle. The palato- pharyngeus thus formed arches downwards and back- wards in the posterior pillar of the fauces to reach the stylo-pharyngeus with which it is inserted into the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage. Some of its fibres, however, incline backwards and are inserted into the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Azygos Uvulse.—This delicate muscle is placed on the upper aspect of the soft palate, and posteriorly it is covered by the superficial fibres of the palato- pharyngeus. These must be removed to expose it382 HEAD AND NECK. fully. It consists of two minute slips which as a rule arise from the posterior nasal spine of the hard palate and lie one on either side of the mesial plane. As they proceed backwards into the uvula they unite into a single rounded muscular belly. Levator Palati.—This muscle has already been seen on the outer aspect of the pharynx in the sinus of Morgagni. To display it fully it is necessary to remove the wall of the pharynx between the Eustachian tube above, and the upper border of the superior constrictor below, and then follow its fibres into the soft palate. In a well-injected subject the dissector will observe the ascending palatine artery in relation to this muscle. The levator palati is a rounded fleshy muscle which arises from the lower and inner border of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and from the rough surface on the under aspect of the apex of the petrous bone in front of the carotid canal. It passes downwards and forwards, crosses the upper border of the superior constrictor, and piercing the pharyngeal aponeurosis enters the soft palate. Here its fibres spread out below the azygos uvulae and above the anterior or deep portion of the palato-pharyngeus. In front, some of the fibres are inserted into the palatal aponeurosis, but behind this, the larger proportion of the fibres become continuous with the corresponding fasciculi of the opposite side. Tensor or Circumflexus Palati.—This littleVESSELS AND NERVES OF THE SOFT PALATE. 383 muscle lies in front of the levator palati. It is flat and bandlike and closely applied to the deep surface of the internal pterygoid muscle. It arises above from the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spine of the sphenoid and from the outer aspect of the Eustachian tube. It descends perpendicularly and ends in a tendon which turns horizontally inwards under the hamular process. A synovial bursa facilitates the play of the tendon upon the bone. In the soft palate the tendon expands below the deep part of the palato-pharyngeus, and is inserted partly into the transverse ridge on the under surface of the horizontal plate of the palate bone, and partly into the palatal aponeurosis with which it blends. Palatal Aponeurosis.—The palatal aponeurosis extends backwards from the posterior margin of the hard palate to give strength and support to the soft palate. At first it is strongly marked, but becomes gradually weaker as it approaches the free border of the soft palate. A portion of the deep fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, some of the fibres of the levator palati and the tendon of the tensor palati obtain attachment to it. Vessels and Nerves of the Soft Palate.— The inferior or ascending palatine branch of the facial is, as a rule, the principal artery of supply to the soft palate. It has already been traced to the outer wall of the pharynx (pp. 185 and 283). Here it384 HEAD AND NECK. . is seen in the sinus of Morgagni, in relation to the levator palati muscle which it accompanies into the soft palate. The palatine branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery may also be traced into the soft palate. In cases where the preceding artery is small, this twig will be found enlarged so as to take its place (p. 282). The superior or descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery likewise sends small twigs to the soft palate and tonsil. The nerves of the soft palate are two branches from Meckel's o-an-lion-viz., the external and the small or posterior palatine nerves The levator palati and the azygos uvulae are supplied by the great superficial petrosal nerve-the fibres of supply being conducted through Meckel's ganglion and led to the muscles by the posterior palatine nerve. The tensor palati is supplied, outside the pharynx, by a branch from the .otic ganglion, which conducts to the muscle fibres which origin- ally come from the inferior maxillary division of the fifth. The palatoglossus and the palato-pharyngeus m all proba- bility receive their nerve-supply from the pharyngeal branches of the vagus. The Tonsils are two prominent rounded bodies, placed one on each side of the fauces immediately above the base of the tongue and between the two pillars of the soft palate. The buccal or internal surface of the tonsil is perforated by a number of orifices which lead into crypts or recesses in its substance; its external surface rests upon the superior constrictor muscle. The tonsils have a rich blood supply. They derive arterial twigs from the tonsillar and inferior palatine branches of the facial, the descending palatine branch335 EUSTACHIAN TUBE. of the internal maxillary, the ascending pharyngeal, and the dorsalis linguae. Eustachian Tube.—This is the canal which conveys air from the pharynx to the tympanic cavity. It is divided into two portions, accord- ing to the parts which enter into the construction of its walls. Thus, in the outer part of its course as it nears the tympanum, its walls are bony, and it runs in the interval between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The inner part is placed on the base of the skull and is lodged in the gutter or groove between the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone and the great wing of the sphenoid. This is the subdivision of the tube which comes under the notice of the dissector at the present stage, and he should first note its direction and then study its relations and the construction of its walls. The direction of the canal can be readily ascer- tained by passing a probe into it through its pharyn- geal orifice. It will be seen to run backwards and outwards with a slight inclination upwards. At the same time it will be noticed to pass between the origins of the levator palati, which lies upon its inner side, and the tensor palati, which is placed upon its outer side. This relationship is best seen in coronal sections through the frozen head. The dissector should now proceed to remove the mucous membrane from around the pharyngeal orifice of the tube. This will reveal the fact that its wall is strengthened by a PART III. ~ r386 HEAD AND NECK. triangular plate of cartilage, which is folded upon itself so as to protect the tube on its upper and inner aspects. The cartilage is deficient below and externally, its place being taken by dense fibrous tissue, which connects the margins of the cartilage and completes the wall of the canal. This explains the characteristic form which its pharyngeal orifice presents (p. 378). A muscular slip, which descends from the outer margin of the cartilage in relation to the outer unprotected side of the tube, has been termed the dilatator tubes (Rudinger). It joins the tensor palati. The interior of the tube is lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the pharynx, and it will be noticed that, as the tube is traced towards the pharynx, it generally increases in calibre. Hence it is frequently described as trumpet- shaped. CAROTID CANAL AND SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. Carotid Canal. — The carotid canal, which traverses the fore part of the petrous bone, may now be opened up by removing its inferior wall with the bone-pliers. In doing this, it is not necessary to interfere with the Eustachian tube, which lies in close proximity. It is well to preserve this structure until we undertake the dissection of the otic ganglion. The carotid canal contains the internal carotid artery and the stout ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion.CAROTID CANAL. 387 The internal carotid artery in this part of its course is about three-fourths of an inch long. At first it ascends vertically; then, bending suddenly, it runs horizontally forwards and inwards. It emerges from the canal at the apex of the petrous bone. From this point onwards the internal carotid artery has been already examined (p. 312). Whilst within the carotid canal it lies in front of the internal ear. Ascending branch of the cervical sympathetic.—The dissector has already noted a large branch proceed- ing from the upper end of the superior cervical ganglion and entering the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery. This almost immediately divides into two parts, which place themselves one on either side of the artery, and supply branches to its coats. The further dissection of these branches is a matter of great difficulty, and can only be satis- factorily effected under specially favourable circum- stances. The external branch breaks up into the carotid plexus; the internal branch is continued into the cave?'nous plexus. From these primary offshoots secondary plexuses are prolonged upon the various branches which spring from the internal carotid artery. The carotid plexus, which lies upon the outer aspect of the internal carotid artery, gives off the following branches— (1.) one or two filaments to the sixth nerve as it turns round the internal carotid artery ; (2.) one or two twigs which join the inner part of the Gasserian ganglion ; (3.) the large deep petrosal nerve ; (4.) the small deep petrosal nerve. •The large deep petrosal nerve runs to the posterior aspect of the body of the sphenoid, and at the entrance to the Vidian388 HEAD AND NECK. canal it joins the great superficial petrosal nerve and forms the Vidian nerve (p. 314). The small deep petrosal nerve connects the carotid plexus with the tympanic branch of the glossopharyngeal as it traverses the tympanum (p. 291, and Fig. 34). The cavernous plexus has already been sufficiently described on p. 313. Dissection to expose the Superior Maxillary Nerve—As the superior maxillary nerve proceeds forwards to reach the face it traverses the upper part of the sphenomaxillary fossa and the infra-orbital canal. The dissector should therefore proceed to expose the nerve in these localities. Remove the temporal muscle and the upper head of the external pterygoid, and, placing the saw upon the cut margin of the skull at a point immediately above the external auditory meatus, carry it obliquely downwards and forwards through the squamous part of the temporal bone and the great wing of the sphenoid to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. This saw-cut should enter the sphenoidal fissure immediately to the outer side of the foramen rotundum. If the previous dissection of the orbit has been carried out as directed, the piece of bone above the incision which has just been made should be loose, and can therefore be removed. Additional space may be obtained and the sphenomaxillary fossa more fully opened up by removing what remains of the great wing of the sphenoid upon the outer side of the foramen rotundum, but the circumference of this aperture must be carefully preserved. Proceed, in the next place,389 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. to open up the infra-orbital canal. In its posterior part its upper wall is usually so thin that it can easily be removed by one of the blades of a pair of forceps, but in front it sinks deeply under the rim of the orbital opening, and here the chisel must be employed. The superior maxillary nerve can now be defined and its branches displayed. The infra-orbital artery and vein, which accompany the nerve, will be exposed at the same time. Superior Maxillary Nerve.— The superior maxillary nerve springs from the Gasserian ganglion within the cranial cavity (p. 308). It is composed entirely of sensory fibres, and proceeds forwards under the dura mater to the foramen rotundum through which it passes into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The nerve is now carried across the upper part of this fossa and enters the infra-orbital canal, where it receives the name of infra-orbital. Finally, it emerges upon the face through the infra-orbital foramen, and breaks up, under cover of the levator labii superioris, into numerous branches, which form a dense plexus with twigs from the facial nerve. Its terminal filaments are distributed to the lower eyelid, the nose, and the upper lip. From its origin within the cranium to its termination on the face, the superior maxillary nerve pursues a nearly straight course, and in each stage it gives off one or more branches. These are:— ■ \ wt^' • f Recurrent (already described, (1.) Within the cranium, -< x I p. 310)-390 HEAD AND NECK. , Orbital or temporo-malar (al- (2.) In the spheno-max- j ready described, p. 339)- illary fossa, . | Spheno-palatine. v Posterior superior dental. (3 ) In the infra-orbital ( Middle superior dental. canal? . .\ Anterior superior dental. / Palpebral, \ already des- (4.) In the face, . . \ Nasal, • V cribed, p. I Labial, ) 222. The temporo-malar nerve, which has already been dissected in the orbit, can now be traced back to its origin from the superior maxillary nerve in the s'ftfieno-maxillary fossa. The spheno-palatine branches are two stout twigs which arise from the under aspect of the superior maxillary nerve, and proceed vertically downwards in the spheno-maxillary fossa to Meckel's ganglion, of which they constitute the sensory roots. Superior Dental Nerves.—These are usually three in number, and are distinguished as posterior, middle, and anterior. The middle superior dental nerve is sometimes absent as a separate trunk, in which case it arises in common with the anterior superior dental. The posterior superior dental nerve takes origin in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and almost immediately divides into two branches, which proceed downwards upon the posterior aspect of the body of the superior maxillary bone. They contribute a few fine filaments to the mucous membrane of the cheek and to the gum, and then disappear into the minute posteriorSUPERIOR DENTAL NERVES. 391 dental foramina to supply the three molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum of Highmore. The middle superior denial nerve supplies the two bicuspid teeth. It arises from the infra-orbital nerve, a short distance in front of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and can be easily detected (when present) by gently raising the parent trunk from the floor of the canal. Fig. 44. Diagram of the superior maxillary nerve. (a) Temporo-inalar. {fg) Posterior superior dental nerve. (h) Middle superior dental nerve. {I) Anterior superior dental nerve. (k) Facial branches of infra-orbital. (6) Snbcutaneus malae (c) Temporal branch. (d) Recurrent branch. (e) Meckel's ganglion. It descends in a minute canal which traverses the outer wall of the antrum of Highmore. The anterior superior dental nerve, much the largest of the three dental branches, springs from the infra- orbital as it approaches the fore part of the canal. It can be brought into view by raising the parent trunk from the floor' of the canal, and it will then be seen to enter a special bony tunnel which traverses the upperHEAD AND NECK. 392 jaw in front of the antrum of Highmore. The dissector should endeavour to open up this canal with the chisel. After supplying a branch to the mucous membrane of the lower and fore part of the nasal fossa, the anterior superior dental nerve divides into branches for the incisor and the canine teeth. While traversing the upper jaw, the three superior dental branches communicate with each other and form two nerve- loops. Numerous twigs proceed from these, and join in a fine plexus. It is from this plexus that the terminal filaments to the teeth and gum take origin. The Infra-orbital Artery is a branch of the internal maxillary. It arises in the sphenomaxillary fossa, and accompanies the infra-orbital nerve. In the face its terminal twigs anastomose with branches of the facial, transverse facial, and buccal arteries ; in the infra-orbital canal it gives some fine branches to the contents of the orbital cavity, and also the anterior dental artery which accompanies the nerve of that name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth, and the lining membrane of the antrum. The infra-orbital vein joins the pterygoid plexus. OTIC GANGLION-NASAL FOSS^J- MECKEL'S GANGLION. Dissection.—The portion of the lower jaw which still remains, together with the tongue and larynx, must now be removed from the upper part of the skull. From the angle of the mouth on each sideOTIC GANGLION. 393 carry the knife backwards through the buccinator and mucous membrane of the cheek, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and the lateral wall of the pharynx. The internal pterygoid muscle has already been divided, but it will be necessary to cut the internal carotid artery with the vessels and nerves which still connect the pharynx with the skull. The larynx and tongue may be laid aside for future dissection. The fore part of the skull should next be divided into two lateral parts by sawing it through in the sagittal direction close to one side of the nasal septum. As a general rule the nasal septum is not vertical, but deviates more or less to one or other side of the mesial plane. This deviation is more frequently directed to the right than to the left side. Endeavour to determine the direction which it takes in the skull under observation by passing a probe into the nasal fossse through the posterior nares. The section through the skull should be made close to the concave side of the septum. Begin in front by introducing a knife into the nostril of that side, and carrying it upwards through the cartilaginous part of the nose to the nasal bone. Then place the specimen so that the face rests upon the table, and divide the soft palate from before backwards in the same plane. The section may now be completed by sawing from behind forwards through the hard palate and bony roof of the nasal fossa. The dissector should make every effort to preserve the septum of the nose intact. As a general rule the upper turbinated bone is partially injured. This is not a very serious matter, as the394 HEAD AND NECK. outer aspect of the nasal fossa can be studied upon the opposite side when the septum of the nose has been removed. Otic Ganglion.—If the part has been well pre- served, the dissector should be able at this stage to expose the otic ganglion, and perhaps also some of its more important connections. Turn the specimen so that its inner surface looks upwards, and carefully detaching the levator palati from its origin throw it downwards. Then remove the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. In doing this, the dissector must proceed with the greatest caution, because the ganglion lies immediately subjacent. By following the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle upwards and backwards to its origin the otic ganglion will be discovered. The otic ganglion is an oval, somewhat flattened body, the long axis of which runs in the antero- posterior direction, and measures 4 m.m. It is placed immediately below the foramen ovale, between the deep surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, and the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. The middle meningeal artery lies behind it. Two con- necting filaments bind it to the inferior maxillary nerve, and it either covers or surrounds the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. The otic ganglion is usually described as receiving motor, sensory, and sympathetic roots. The motor and sensory roots are, in all probability, both supplied by the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle ; the sympathetic root comes from the plexusNASAL SEPTUM. 395 around the middle meningeal artery. In addition to these, the small superficial -petrosal nerve enters the posterior border of the ganglion, (p. 290, Fig. 34). The following are the branches which proceed from the otic ganglion :— fA twig which passes downwards and Branches of J forwards to the tensor palati. distribution. j A twig which proceeds upwards and back- v wards to supply the tensor tympani. / One or more fine filaments to one or both of Connecting J the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, branches. j A minute communicating filament to the v chorda tympani. Nasal Septum.—The nasal septum divides the cavity of the nose into two narrow chambers—the right and left nasal fossae. It is not placed accurately in the mesial plane, but almost invariably shows a bulging or deviation to one or other side, so as to reduce the width of one fossa, and increase the capa- city of the other. Immediately above the anterior aperture of the nasal fossa the septum shows a slight depression, which corresponds to the vestibule of the nose, and forms the inner wall of this subdivision of the chamber. The vestibular part of the partition is clothed by skin, continuous with the external integu- ment ; from this a number of stiff hairs termed vibrissce project. Over the rest of its extent the septum nasi is covered with mucous membrane, which is divided into two districts—viz., a lower or respiratory portion, and an upper or olfactory portion, in which the branches of the olfactory nerve spread out. The respiratory mucous membrane is very thick and396 HEAD AND NECK. spongy. It is highly vascular, and contains numerous racemose glands. The minute orifices of the gland- ducts can be detected by the naked eye. Over the olfactory district of the septum, the mucous membrane is softer and more delicate, and not so thick. In the fresh state it presents a yellowish colour, and the glands are smaller and not so plentiful. In favourable cases a minute orifice may be detected in the mucous membrane on the lower and fore part of the nasal septum immediately behind the vestibular area. It is placed above the anterior end of a well-marked elongated projection which passes obliquely backwards and upwards, and corresponds to the thickened lower margin of the septal cartilage. This aperture varies in diameter from \ m.m., to 11 m.m. (Schwalbe). It leads into a narrow canal, which passes backwards for a short distance, and then ends blindly. It is of interest because it represents in the human subject the rudiment of the organ of Jacobson, a tubular structure which is highly developed in some of the lower animals. Construction of the Nasal Septum.—Strip the mucous membrane from the exposed surface of the septum nasi. By this proceeding the intimate connection which exists between the mucous mem- brane and the subjacent periosteum and perichondrium will become apparent, and the parts forming the septum will be rendered visible. The bulk of the partition is composed of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer posteriorly, and of theCONSTRUCTION OF THE NASAL SEPTUM. 397 septal cartilage in front. Small portions of other bones take a minor part in its construction. Thus, above and behind there are the crest and rostrum of the sphenoid ; above and in front is the nasal spine of the frontal bone ; whilst below there is the crest of bone formed by the apposition of the palatal processes of the palate and superior maxillary bones of opposite sides. The septal cartilage fills up the wide angular gap which intervenes between the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid and the vomer, and it projects forwards towards the point of the nose. It is a broad ir- regularly quadrilateral cartilaginous plate. Its upper and posterior border is in apposition with the fore border of the mes-ethmoid ; its lower and posterior border, much thickened, is received into the groove in the fore border of the vomer and the incisor crest of the maxillary bones. The angle between these two borders is prolonged backwards for a varying distance in the form of a tongue- shaped cartilaginous process, which occupies the interval between the two plates of the vomer. The upper and anterior border of the septal cartilage is in contact above with the suture between the two nasal bones ; below this it is placed between the two lateral cartilages of the nose, whilst still lower down it is seen in the interval between the two cartilages of the nasal aperture. Its connection with the lateral cartilage of each side is a very intimate one, indeed, below the nasal bones the three cartilages may be considered to be directly continuous, but lower down398 HEAD AND NECK. they are separated by a fissure which runs upwards for some distance on each side. The lower and anterior border is very short; it is free, and extends backwards to the anterior nasal spine. The anterior angle of the septal cartilage is blunt and rounded, and does not reach to the point of the nose, which is thus formed by the cartilages of the aperture (p. 240). The deviation of the septum nasi from the mesial plane will now (in all probability) be seen to be due to a bulging to one side of the vomer and mes- ethmoid along their line of union. It is not developed until after the seventh year of life (Zucker- kandl). Nerves and Vessels of the Septum Nasi.—The septal cartilage and thin bony laminae must now be removed piecemeal. This must be done very care- fully, as it is necessary to preserve intact the mucous . membrane which clothes the opposite side of the septum. It is in this that the nerves and blood vessels must be examined. The following is a list of the nerves:— Nerves of) Qlfact Smell, . j , 1. Naso-palatine, or nerve of Cotunnius. Nerves of j ^ Septal brancn 0f the nasal proper. Common I ^ Nagal brancnes from Meckel's gang- Sensation, I lion and the vidian nerve. The inner group of olfactory nerves which are distributed in the mucous membrane of the upper part of the nasal septum are barely distinguish-NERVES AND VESSELS OF THE NASAL SEPTUM. 399 able, except in a fresh part; further, they are so soft that it is hardly possible to isolate them. They enter the nasal fossa through the inner series of apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and proceed downwards in grooves on the surface of the perpendicular plate of the same bone. Upon the deep surface of the mucous membrane they form a close meshed plexus of nerves. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius) is a long slender twig which can easily be detected upon the deep surface of the mucous lining of the septum. It springs from Meckel's ganglion, and enters the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen. In the first part of its course it runs horizontally inwards upon the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. Having gained the nasal septum, it changes its direction and proceeds down- wards and forwards in a shallow groove on the surface of the vomer under cover of the mucous lining. Finally it enters the foramen of Scarpa, and where the two foramina of Scarpa open into the common anterior palatine canal, the nerves of opposite sides unite in a plexus from which branches are given to the mucous membrane covering the fore part of the hard palate. The naso-palatine nerve is accompanied by the corresponding artery, and as it lies on the surface of the vomer, it supplies some small twigs to the mucous membrane of the septum nasi. A few nasal branches from Meckel's ganglion, and also from the Vidian nerve, reach the mucous400 HEAD AND NECK. membrane over the upper and back part of the septum. They are very minute, and it is very questionable if the dissector will be able to discover any trace of them. The septal branch of the nasal proper will be found descending over the fore part of the nasal septum. It runs between the mucous membrane and the septal cartilage, and. its terminal twigs may be traced as far as the vestibule. The arteries which convey blood to the septum nasi are: (i.) the naso-palatine, which accompanies the nerve of the same name ; (2.) a branch of the anterior ethmoidal accompanying the septal branch of the nasal nerve ; (3.) some minute twigs to the upper part of the septum from the posterior ethmoidal artery; (4.) the septal branch of the superior coronary artery, which is distributed upon the columna nasi. Nasal Fossae.—The mucous membrane of the septum may now be divided by the scissors along the roof of the nasal cavity. Before doing this, disengage from its surface the naso-palatine nerve and the septal branch of the nasal nerve proper, in order that they may be afterwards traced to their origins. When the layer of mucous membrane thus detached from the roof of the nose is thrown inwards the nasal fossa is exposed. The nasal fosses are two chambers placed one on each side of the septum nasi. They are extremely narrow, but the vertical depth and anteroposterior length of each fossa is very considerable. The width401 NASAL FOSS.E. increases somewhat from above downwards ; thus in the upper part, the superior turbinated bone is only separated from the septum by an interval of 2 m.m., Fig. 45. d e Coronal section through the nasal cavities opposite the crista Galli of the ethmoid bone ; viewed from behind. (a) Anterior ethmoidal cell. (6) Infundibulum. (c) Posterior angle of septal cartilage between Tomer and perpendicular plate of ethmoid. (<Z) Inferior turbinated bone, (e) Inferior meatus. (/) Antrum of Highmore. g) Middle turbinated bone. (h) Middle meatus. The upper arrow passes through the opening of the anterior ethmoidal cell into- the infundibulum. The lower arrow passes from antrum of Highmore into the infundibulum whilst lower down we find a space of 4 or 5 m.m. intervening between the inferior turbinated bone and the septum. Each nasal fossa presents an inner wall PART III. 2 D402 HEAD AND NECK. formed by the septum, an outer wall, a roof, a floor, and an anterior and a posterior aperture. The anterior apertures of the nasal fossae or anterior nares are two oval orifices which open upon the face and look downwards. The posterior apertures or posterior nares open into the upper part of the pharynx and look directly backwards. The narrow roof of the nasal fossa consists of an intermediate horizontal portion formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and of an anterior and a posterior sloping part. The anterior part inclines downwards and forwards, and is formed by the narrow grooved nasal surface of the spine of the frontal bone, the nasal bone, and the angle between the lateral cartilage and the septal cartilage. The posterior part of the roof, which slopes downwards and backwards, is composed of the fore and under surfaces of the body of the sphenoid, as well as the spread - out ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, both of which are applied to the under surface of the sphenoidal body. The floor of the nasal fossa is wider than the roof. It is formed by the palatal processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones, and is concave from side to side Further, it presents a gentle slope from before backwards, so that it is slightly higher in front than behind. On the anterior part of the floor the dissector may observe a minute funnel- shaped depression of the mucous membrane into the incisor foramen. This is of interest from a developmental point of view ; it is a vestige of theOUTER WALL OF THE NASAL FOSSA. 403 extensive communication which existed in the embryo between the cavities of the nose and the mouth. Outer Wall of the Nasal Fossa.—The outer wall of the nasal cavity is rendered uneven and complicated by the projection of the three turbinated bones. In front it is formed by the lateral cartilage, the cartilage of the aperture, the nasal bone, and the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone. Behind these, the lachrymal, the ethmoid, and the inferior turbinated bones, with a small portion of the body of the superior maxillary bone, enter into its construction ; whilst still farther back, are the vertical plate of the palate bone and the internal pter- ygoid plate of the sphenoid. Placed in relation to the outer aspect of this wall are the ethmoidal air-cells, which intervene between the upper part of the nasal cavity and the orbit, whilst at a lower level the great air-sinus of the superior maxillary bone, termed the antrum of Highmore, is situated immediately to the outer side of the nasal fossa (Fig. 45). The part which the different bones take in the formation of the outer wall of the cavity of the nose must in the first place be studied in a sagittal section through the macerated skull, and the dissector should constantly refer to such a preparation during the dissection. Turning now to the recent specimen, the dissector will observe that the outer wall may very readily be sub- divided into three areas or districts. These are: (1.) the vestibule, (2.) the atrium meatus medii, (3.) the region of the turbinated bones and intervening meatuses.404 HEAD AND NECK. The vestibular part (Fig. 46, 6', 6) of the outer wall is a depression of a somewhat oval form placed immediately above the aperture of the nostril. It is partially divided into an upper and lower portion by a short ridge which projects forwards from its posterior boundary, and it is clothed throughout by integument continuous with the external skin. From this a number of stout stiff hairs termed vibrissa project (Fig. 46, 5)- The vibrissa which spring from the anterior part of the region incline backwards, whilst those which are implanted into the posterior part are directed forwards ; in this manner a sieve- like arrangement is provided at the anterior aperture of the nose. The vestibular part of the outer wall is placed opposite the corresponding area on the septum nasi, and the two together constitute an ampullated entrance to the nasal fossa. The capacity and shape of this section of the cavity is influenced to a certain extent by the contraction of the nasal muscles. The atrium meatus medii (Fig. 46, 8) is placed above, and slightly behind the vestibular district, and it receives its name from the fact that it leads directly backwards into the middle meatus of the nose. It is slightly hollowed out and concave, and on its upper part, near the nasal bone, a feeble elevation may sometimes be noticed which begins close to the fore part of the attached margin of the middle turbinated bone and proceeds obliquely downwards and forwards (Fig. 46, 9). This has been termed by Schwalbe, the « rudiment of the anterior turbinal," and he considers that it is the represent*-405 OUTER WALL OF THE NASAL FOSSA. tive of the naso-turbinal which is present in most mammalia. Behind the vestibule and the atrium are the Fig. 46. Outer wall of the left nasal fossa. — {From Schwalbe's "Anatomie des Sinnesorgane") (1) Frontal air-sinus. (2) Free border of the nasal bone. (3) Cribriform plate of ethmoid. (4) Sphenoidal air-sinus. (5) Vibrissas. (6', 6) Two parts of the vestibular area. (7) Elevation intervening between the vesti- bular district and the atrium. (8) Atrium meatus medii. (9) Aggar nasi, or rudiment of an anterior turbinal. (10) Upper part of the superior turbinated bone (concha supremii). (11) Eeccssus spheno-ethmoidaliR. (12) Superior turbinated bone. (13) Superior meatus. (14) Middle turbinated bone. (15) Inferior turbinated bone. (Ifi) Plica naso-pharyngea. (17) District intermediate between nose and pharynx and termed the region of the ductus naso-pharyngeus. (18) Orifice of Eustachian tube. (19) Prominent inner lip of this orifice. (20) Wall of pharynx. (21) Anterior palatine canal. (a 6 c) Free border of the middle turbinated bone. turbinated bones with the intervening meatuses. The superior turbinated bone (Fig. 46, 12), which pro- jects from the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, is406 HEAD AND NECK. very short, and is placed on the upper and back part of the outer wall of the fossa. Its free border begins a short distance below the centre of the cribriform plate, and proceeds obliquely downwards and backwards to a point immediately below the body of the sphenoid, where it ends. The middle turbinated bone (Fig. 4°", 13) is also a part of the ethmoid. Its 'free border begins a short distance below the fore part of the cribriform plate, and at first takes a vertical course downwards {a to b); then bending suddenly, it proceeds backwards and ends midway between the body of the sphenoid and the posterior border of the hard palate (c). The inferior turbinated bone (Fig. 46, 15) Is an independent bone, and stretches backwards upon the outer wall of the nasal fossa, midway between the middle turbinated bone and the floor of the nose. Its lower free margin is somewhat convex from before backwards. Meatuses of the Nose.—The superior meatus (Fig. 46, 13) is a short narrow fissure between the superior'and middle turbinated bones. The posterior ethmoidal cells open into its upper and fore part by one, or in some cases, by several apertures. To bring these orifices into view the superior spongy bone should be turned aside by introducing the blade of a pair of forceps under its entire length, and forcing it outwards and upwards. Care should be taken not to injure the mucous membrane more than is absolutely necessary. The middle meatus is a much more roomy passage407 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. which lies between the middle and inferior turbinated bones, and is continued directly forwards into the atrium. The middle spongy bone should be forcibly tilted upwards and backwards. Upon the lateral wall of the meatus a deep curved groove or gutter which runs from above downwards and back- wards, will be observed. In this groove, which is termed the infundidulum (Fig. 47), are the openings of the frontal sinus, the anterior ethmoidal cells, and the antrum of Highmore. The aperture of the frontal sinus is a small circular opening placed at the upper and fore extremity of the infundibulum. The anterior ethmoidal cells as a general rule open a short distance lower down (Fig. 45); in some cases, how- ever, the aperture may be placed above the groove (Fig. 47). The slit-like opening of the antrum of Highmore will be noticed in the hinder part of the infundibulum. The dissector should now pro- ceed to open up the antrum by removing its outer wall. This may be done by sawing upwards through the root of the zygomatic process of the superior maxillary bone. The orifice by means of which this great air-sinus communicates with the middle meatus will be noticed to be placed on the inner wall of the cavity much nearer the roof than the floor—a position highly unfavourable for the escape of fluids which may collect within it. Very frequently, however, a second orifice, circular in outline, will be found. This is situated lower down, and opens into the middle meatus immediately above the middle point of the attached margin of the inferior turbinated bone.408 HEAD AND NECK. The inferior meatus is the horizontal passage which extends backwards between the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. It is placed behind the vestibule, and the free border of the projec- tion, which corresponds to the inferior turbinated bone, turns downwards in front so as to limit it Fig. 47. Outer wall of nasal fossa.—{From Gegenbaur.) The middle and inferior turbinated bones have been taken away. anteriorly (Fig. 46). This condition, together with the backward slope of the floor, renders the inferior meatus more accessible to the current of expired air than to the current of inspired air (Schwalbe). In the fore part of this meatus will be found the open- ing oi" the nasal duct—the canal which conveys the409 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. tears to the nasal fossa (Fig. 47). To bring it into view, remove a small portion of the anterior part of the inferior turbinated bone with the scissors. This orifice varies in form, according to the manner in which the mucous membrane is arranged around it. Sometimes it is wide, patent, and circular ; at other times the mucous membrane is prolonged inwards beyond the bony opening, so as to reduce the size of the aperture and even give it a slit-like character. In some cases indeed the orifice may be so minute that it is a difficult matter to find it Its continuity with the lachrymal sac should in all cases be estab- lished by passing a probe from above downwards through the nasal duct. A fourth meatus is very frequently present on the outer wall of the nose. It is not at all uncommon to find the superior turbinated bone partially subdivided into an upper and lower part by a short fissure, which proceeds forwards from the anterior aspect of the body of the sphenoid. This additional meatus is termed the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis (Meyer), and into its back part opens the aperture of the sphen- oidal air-sinus (Fig. 46, 11). This orifice may be circular or slit-like, according to the manner in which the mucous membrane is disposed around it* The upper portion of the superior turbinated bone which is placed above this additional meatus is called the concha suprema (Fig. 46, 10). * Wh en the recessus spheno-ethmoidalis is absent, the sphenoidal air-sinus opens into the interval between the roof of the nasal fossa and the superior turbinated bone.410 HEAD AND NECK. Mucous Membrane of the outer Wall of the Nose.*—The vestibule, as we have noted, is lined by integument. The remainder of the outer wall, as well as the roof and floor of the nasal fossa, is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous through the nasal duct with the ocular conjunctiva, through the various apertures with the delicate lining mem- brane of the air-cells which open into the nose, and through the posterior riares with the pharyngeal mucous membrane. On the outer wall, as on the septum, the mucous membrane is mapped out into an upper olfactory and a lower respiratory portion. This subdivision cannot be appreciated by the naked eye, as the one district passes without any sharp line of demarcation into the other. The olfactory region comprises the upper and middle turbinated bones with the superior meatus; the respiratory region includes the inferior turbinated bone, the middle meatus, the lower meatus, and the greater part of the atrium. In the lower part of the outer wall the mucous membrane is thick and spongy. This is particularly noticeable over the lower borders, and posterior extremities of the middle and inferior turbinated bones, where the membrane presents an irregular surface and forms soft bulging cushions. This condition is largely due to the presence of a rich venous plexus, the vessels of which run for the most part in an anteroposterior direction. In the case of the lower spongy bone, the veins^are The mucous liiitagtf the nasal fossa is frequently termed the schneiderian membrane.411 NERVES OF THE NASAL FOSSA. so numerous that the mucous membrane assumes the character of cavernous tissue, and is some- times spoken of as the " erectile body." When turgid with blood, it swells out so as to obliterate the interval between the turbinal bone and the septum. The mucous membrane of the floor, meatuses, and the atrium, is smoother and not so thick as that over the turbinated bones. Everywhere numerous racemose glands are embedded in its midst, and the minute punctiform orifices of the ducts are visible to the naked eye. In the olfactory region the lining mem- brane of the nose in the fresh state is of a yellowish colour, and is softer and more delicate than in the respiratory part. The great vascularity of the mucous membrane of the nose, is doubtless for the purpose of raising the temperature of the inspired air. Nerves and Vessels on the Outer Wall of the Nasal Fossa:— Nerves of Smell, . Olfactory nerves. (1.) External branch of nasal proper. (2.) Nasal branch of anterior superior dental. j (3.) Superior nasal branches from mon Sensation, ] Meckel's ganglion and the Vid- ian nerve. (4.) Two inferior nasal branches from the anterior palatine nerve. The olfactory nerves are from twelve to twenty in number. They are fine filaments which spring from the under surface and the extremity of the olfactory Nerves of Com-4i2 HEAD AND NECK. bulb, and passing through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid into the nose, they separate into an outer and an inner group. To each nerve an investment from the cerebral membranes is given. The inner or septal nerves have been already described (p. 398). The outer nerves descend between the mucous membrane and the periosteum on the outer wall of the nose. At first lodged in shallow grooves, they soon divide into bunches of branches which spread out over the upper and middle turbinated bones. The dissection of these nerves is exceedingly difficult even in the fresh subject, but in a well-preserved part they can generally be partially displayed. The superior nasal branches which come from the sphenopalatine ganglion and from the Vidian nerve are very minute filaments, but the dissector should not be deterred on this account from endeavouring to trace them to their distribution upon the outer wall. They enter the nose through the spheno- palatine foramen, which is situated at the back part of the superior meatus. The best plan to adopt for their display is to trace the naso-palatine nerve, which has already been exposed on the nasal septum, outwards across the roof of the nose. This will lead to the foramen, and by carefully dissecting the mucous membrane in its neighbourhood, the superior nasal nerves may be detected entering the nasal fossa. They are distributed to the mucous membrane over the upper and middle turbinated bones; and, as we have seen, some filaments are prolonged to the septum.INFERIOR NASAL NERVES. 413 The inferior nasal nerves are two in number, and they both arise from the great or anterior palatine nerve. Carefully raise the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. Make a vertical incision, through the membrane over the internal pterygoid process, and turn it cautiously over from behind forwards. The upper of the two inferior nasal nerves will be found emerging through a small aperture in the vertical plate of the palate bone, at a point between the posterior extremities of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. It divides into an ascending and descending branch. The former runs forwards on the middle spongy bone ; the latter, extends forwards upon the inferior spongy bone. The lower of the two inferior nasal nerves appears through a foramen in the vertical plate of the palate bone immediately behind the posterior end of the inferior turbinated bone upon the outer surface of which it proceeds in a forward direction. The nasal nerve proper should be exposed as it descends in the groove upon the deep surface of the nasal bone (p. 327). It gives, as we have noted, a branch inwards to the septum ; an external twig may also be traced to the mucous membrane over the fore part of the outer wall and to the fore parts of the middle and inferior turbinated bones. The main artery of supply to the nasal mucous membrane is the sphenopalatine, a branch of the internal maxillary. It gains entrance to the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen in com- pany with the superior nasal and naso-palatine414 HEAD AND NECK. nerves. One branch of this vessel—the naso-palatinc —accompanies the latter nerve, whilst others are distributed upon the outer wall of the cavity. Several twigs are also given by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary and the two ethmoidal arteries, but these are small and will only be seen in cases where the injection of the subject has been unusually successful. SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION OR THE GANGLION OP MECKEL. Dissection.—Meckel's ganglion is placed on the outer side of the spheno-palatine foramen, and can best be exposed at this stage by dissecting from the inside. The mucous membrane has already been removed from the posterior part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and the inferior nasal branches of the great palatine nerve have been found piercing the vertical plate of the palate bone. The dissector can- not fail to notice the course taken by the trunk from which these filaments arise. The lamina of bone which forms the inner wall of the posterior palatine canal is so thin that the nerve can be distinctly seen through it. By carefully opening up this canal with a chisel, and following the great palatine nerve upwards,' the dissector will be led to the ganglion in the sphenomaxillary fossa. The naso-palatme nerve should at the same time be traced to its origin. The ganglion is so hemmed in by the bony walls of the fossa that it is very difficult to display itSPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. 415 thoroughly, but by removing the orbital process of the palate bone, and a portion of the body of the sphenoid with the bone-forceps, it may be more or less satisfactorily exposed. In the same restricted space will be found the terminal portion of the internal maxillary artery, from which numerous branches are given off. The Sphenopalatine Ganglion is a small triangular flattened body, which is lodged in the spheno-maxillary fossa. It is embedded in soft fat, and surrounded by the terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. The two stout spheno- palatine branches which descend from the superior maxillary nerve join it from above, but only a certain proportion of their fibres are involved in the ganglion; the remainder are continued directly into the nasal and palatine nerves which proceed from the ganglion. The spheno-palatine nerves may be regarded as con- stituting the sensory roots of the ganglion. From the spheno-palatine ganglion branches are given off, which radiate in four directions—viz., inwards to the nose, downwards to the palate, back- wards to establish connections with the facial nerve and carotid plexus, as well as to supply the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and upwards to the orbit. T . , , 1 Superior nasal. Internal branches, . < VT . . ( Naso-palatine. ( Great palatine. Descending branches, < Small palatine. ' External palatine.416 HEAD AND NECK. ( Vidian. Posterior branches, . \ pharyngeal Ascending branches,. Orbital. From the internal maxillary artery twigs are given off which accompany these nerves. The superior nasal and the naso-palatine nerves have been already described (pp. 399, 412). They arise from the inner aspect of the ganglion, but in some cases the naso-palatine may be seen to take origin from the commencement of the common palatine trunk, or even from one of the sphenopalatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve (Henle). The palatine nerves are three in number, and are distinguished as great or anterior, small or posterior, and external. As a rule these spring by a common trunk from the lower aspect of the ganglion. This descends in the posterior palatine canal, which has already been opened up, but to expose the nerves a dense fibrous investment must be removed. The nerve trunk will then be observed to break up into its three constituents. Trace, in the first instance, the two smaller nerves—viz., the small and the external palatine branches. These leave the main canal, and enter smaller tunnels, which conduct them through the tuberosity of the palate bone. Before opening these up, it is well to secure the nerves as they emerge from the lower openings of the canals. This can very readily be done by dissecting behind the hamular process, and gently separating the soft parts from the under aspect of the tuberosity of the palateSPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. 417 bone. As the dissection is being made from the inside, the small, or posterior palatine nerve, will be first encountered, and it will be seen to pass back- wards into the soft palate, under cover of the tendin- ous expansion of the tensor palati.* This must be divided, in order that the small palatine nerve may be followed to its distribution. It is the nerve of supply to the levator palati, and the azygos uvulae. The external palatine nerve will be found issuing from its canal a short distance to the outer side of the pre- ceding nerve. It is distributed to the soft palate in the neighbourhood of the tonsil. It is smaller than the posterior palatine nerve, and is sometimes absent. The great or anterior palatine nerve should now be followed onwards to the hard palate. To do this the lower part of the posterior palatine canal must be opened up by removing a small portion of the posterior and outer part of the horizontal plate of the palate bone. The nerve as it emerges from the posterior palatine foramen turns forwards, and divides into branches, which lie in grooves on the under aspect of the hard palate. It supplies the gum, the mucous membrane, and glands of the vault of the mouth, and in the neighbourhood of the anterior palatine foramen it effects a communication with the naso-palatine nerve. During its passage through the posterior palatine canal this nerve has already been observed to supply two inferior nasal branches (p. 412). * The present is a good opportunity to observe the corru- gated or wrinkled appearance of the tendon of the tensor palati, as it passes under the hamular process. part in. 2 E4i8 HEAD AND NECK. In tracing the posterior palatine nerve forwards in the palate, the dissector should note the numerous glands which are placed under the mucous membrane of the vault of the mouth, and the manner in which these indent the bone * Pharyngeal and Vidian nerves.--Very considerable difficulty will be experienced in exposing these nerves. They proceed backwards from the posterior part of the ganglion in canals which are very inaccessible. Ihz pharyngeal nerve occupies the pterygopalatine canal, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx. To open up this canal the sphenoidal process of the palate bone must be cautiously removed by the bone-forceps, and then the dissector should proceed to open up the Vidian canal, which traverses the root of the pterygoid process. As the bone is very hard and brittle at this point, the dissection must be effected very carefully. The Vidian nerve has previously been seen to be formed by a junction between the great superficial petrosal branch of the facial and the great deep petrosal branch of the carotid plexus (p. 313> lt traverses *e Vidian canal, and joins the posterior aspect of the .anglion, of which it may be considered to constitute the motor and sympathetic roots, tn the canal it is invested by a strong fibrous envelope, and when this membrane and glands.INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 419 is removed it may sometimes be noticed to break up into a fine plexus which surrounds the accompanying artery. It has already been observed to give some fine filaments to the mucous membrane of the nose. The orbital branches of the ganglion are exceedingly minute, and ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure to supply the periosteum of the orbit. Termination of Internal Maxillary Artery.— The internal maxillary artery breaks up into its terminal branches in the spheno-maxillary fossa. These have already been traced. They are— (1.) The posterior dental (p. 252). (2.) The infra-orbital (p. 392). (3.) The descending or superior palatine. (4.) The Vidian. (5.) The pterygo-palatine. (6.) Spheno-palatine. The descending palatine accompanies the great or anterior palatine nerve. During its passage through the posterior palatine canal, it gives off twigs which accompany the posterior and external palatine nerves and the two inferior nasal branches of the great palatine nerve. On the hard palate it dispenses branches to the gum, mucous membrane, and glands, and sends a small branch upwards through the incisor foramen to anastomose with the naso-palatine artery. The Vidian artery runs backwards in the Vidian canal to supply the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx and of the Eustachian tube.420 HEAD AND NECK. The pterygopalatine artery traverses the canal of the same name, and has a corresponding distribution. The sphenopalatine enters the nasal fossa through the sphenopalatine foramen, and has already been followed to its distribution (p. 413). FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. The facial and auditory nerves, together with the pars intermedia, have already been traced into the internal auditory meatus (p. 30- The dissector should now open up this meatus and follow the facial nerve in its course through the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canal which it occupies is termed the aqueduct of Fallopius. This begins at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus, and opens on the exterior of the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen. Between these points it pursues a complicated course, and this, combined with the density of the bone, renders the dissection very difficult. Perhaps the easiest method of opening up the aqueduct, is, in the first instance, to decalcify the bone in a weak solution of acid, but, at the same time, it should be clearly understood that, with a little care, there is nothing to hinder the dissector carrying out the dissection on the hard bone by means of the saw and the chisel. Dissection.*—Separate the temporal bone from the * The dissection which is recommended here has been prac- tised with much success by Dr. St. John Brooks m the d1Ssect- ing-room of T. C. D.FACIAL NERVE IN THE TEMPORAL BONE. 421 other cranial bones which still adhere to it, and, having fixed it in its natural position (in a vice if possible), remove the squamous portion by a horizon- tal saw-cut at the level of the superior border of the petrous bone. A second horizontal saw-cut should then be made through the pars petrosa immediately above the roof of the internal auditory meatus. If this is successfully carried out, the vestibule, the upper part of the tympanum, and the mastoidal cells are opened. Upon the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum above the stapes and the foramen ovale, a prominent ridge will be noticed running from before backwards. This is the aqueduct of Fallopius. Extend the opening into the tympanum by removing the remainder of its roof, and then, with the chisel, open up the aqueduct as seen in this part of its course. The facial nerve is now exposed in what may be said to be its intermediate or tympanic part. To display its first stage within the bone, open up the internal auditory meatus by removing what remains of its roof, and follow the facial nerve forwards and outwards by means of the chisel. This will lead to the geniculate ganglion—the swelling which marks the point at which the nerve bends backwards to enter the tympanic part of the aqueduct. Be careful at this point to secure the branches which proceed from the gangliform enlargement. The terminal part of the aqueduct of Fallopius is vertical, and its course can be indicated by pushing a fine pin upwards through the stylo-mastoid foramen. To open it, the mastoid process must be removed by a coronal,22 HEAD AND NECK. (vertical-transverse) saw-eut on a plane immediately behind the stylomastoid foramen. When th.s has penetrated the bone as far as that foramen a second saw-cut should be made in the sagittal (antero- posterior and vertical) direction, to meet the extremity of the first. The piece of bone thus marked out may now be detached, and a little work -with the chisel will display the facial nerve in this part of the canal. Three branches are given off from it here -viz the nerve to the stapedius, the chorda tympam, and the communicating branch or branches to the auricular nerve from the vagus. The last ortta>£. probably destroyed by the dissection, but the other two can be brought into view by gently ra.smg the nerve from the anterior wall of the canal. By using the chisel in front, and to the inner s.de of the geniculate ganglion, the cochlea will be exposed. ■ Intrapetrous Portion of the Facial Nerve- As the facial nerve traverses the petrous bone, .t may be divided into four stages, which differ from each other in the relations they present and in the direction which they take. They are :— ,. A part within the internal auditory meatus. 2 A very short part which extends from the bottom of the internal auditory foramen to the geniculate ganglion. , A part which occupies that portion of the aque- duct of Fallopius which runs along the inner wril of the tympanum.INTRAPETROUS PORTION OF FACIAL NERVE. 423 4. A part which extends vertically downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. First stage.—In the internal auditory meatus, the facial nerve runs almost directly outwards in company with the auditory nerve and the pars intermedia. In this stage of its course it lies in relation to the upper and fore part of the auditory nerve, and is joined by the pars intermedia. At the bottom of the auditory meatus it enters the aqueduct of Fallopius. Second stage.—The second part of the facial nerve is very short It runs outwards with a slight inclina- tion forwards between the vestibule and cochlea, and very soon ends in the swelling termed the geniculate ganglion. Third stage.—At the geniculate ganglion, the facial nerve bends suddenly and then proceeds backwards and slightly downwards in that portion of the aque- duct which runs along the upper part of the inner wall of the tympanum, immediately above the fora- men ovale. The first three portions of the facial nerve are nearly horizontal, and pursue a somewhat V-snaPed course. The apex of the V is directed forwards, and corresponds to the geniculate ganglion. The fourth stage is vertical, and arches downwards behind the pyramid to gain the stylo-mastoid foramen. The branches which spring from the facial nerve during its passage through the temporal bone are:—424 HEAD AND NECK. (i.) The great superficial petrosal nerve, from (2.) Communicating twig to tympanic ( geniculate branch of the glosso-pharnygeal, f gangiion. (3.) External superficial petrosal nerve, ) (4.) Nerve to stapedius. (5.) Chorda tympani. (6.) Communicating twigs to the auricular branch of vagus. The great superficial petrosal nerve has already been examined (p. 313). I* origin from the geniculate ganglion of the facial can now be estab- lished by breaking through the roof of the hiatus Fallopii with the chisel. The communicating branch to the tympanic nerve arises from the geniculate ganglion and its union with the tympanic forms the small superficial petrosal nerve (p. 290, Fig. 34)- The external superficial petrosal nerve is not always present. It joins the sympathetic plexus which accompanies the middle meningeal artery (p. 3H)- The nerve to the stapedius muscle arises from the facial as it arches downwards behind the pyramid. It enters the base of the pyramid and thus reaches the stapedius muscle. The communicating twigs to the auricular branch of the vagus arise a short distance above the stylo- mastoid foramen (p. 292). The chorda tympani is the largest branch which is -iven off by the facial during its passage through the aqueduct of Fallopius. It takes origin a short distance above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and arch-THE AUDITORY NERVE. 425 ing upwards and forwards in a narrow canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone (iter chordae posterius) it appears in the tympanum below the base of the pyramid, and close to the posterior margin of membrana tympani. The bony tunnel which it occupies can easily be opened up in a decalcified bone, but is somewhat difficult to expose in the hard bone. The chorda tympani now runs forwards upon the upper part of the membrana tympani under cover of the mucous layer. It crosses the handle of the maleus near its root. To display it in this part of its course, the incus bone should be removed. Finally, reaching the anterior end of the tympanic cavity it crosses the processus gracilis of the maleus, and near the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, it enters a canal (canal of Huguier) which conducts it to the exterior of the skull. With a little care the canal of Huguier can be opened up by the chisel and bone-pliers. From this point to its junction with the lingual nerve the chorda tympani has already been traced (p. 262). The Auditory Nerve.—In the internal auditory meatus the auditory nerve lies at a lower level than the facial, and at the bottom of the passage it splits into two parts. Of these, one is directed forwards to the cochlea, and the other proceeds outwards to the vestibule. THE LARYNX. The lateral' portions of the lower jaw which are still attached by mucous membrane to the sides ofHEAD AND NECK. 426 the tongue should be removed, and the dissection of the larynx commenced. The following are the parts which must be studied :— ( The three laryngeal compartments. J The vocal cords. Interior of the larynx, j Laryngeal sinuses and pouches V Mucous membrane. epiglotticus. Crico-thyroideus. Crico-arytenoideus posticus. Crico-arytenoideus lateralis. Thyro-arytenoideus. Aryteno-epiglotticus \ thyro-ary- Thyro-epiglotticus J ' Arytenoideus. j Superior laryngeal. { Inferior laryngeal, r Internal laryngeal, -j External laryngeal. ( Recurrent laryngeal. Cartilages and ligaments. Muscles, (With the exception of the arytenoideus these muscles are arranged in pairs.) Arteries, Nerves, General Construction and Position—The larynx constitutes the upper expanded portion of the air-passage, specially modified for the production of the voice Its walls are composed of cartilages, muscles, ligaments, and an internal lining of mucous membrane. Before proceeding with the dissection the student should endeavour to study the form and connections of the nine laryngeal cartilages in a permanent specimen (v. p. 449)- The larynx is placed in the upper and fore part of the neck, where it forms a marked projection. It liesINTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 427 below the hyoid bone and tongue, whilst inferiorly it is directly continuous with the trachea. In front it is covered by the integument and deep cervical fascia, and on either side of the mesial plane by two thin strata of muscles—viz., the sterno-hyoid, the omo-hyoid, the sterno-thyroid and the thyro- hyoid. As a general rule a narrow process of the thyroid body, termed the central lobe, is also continued upwards on its anterior surface. On each side the lateral lobe of the thyroid body is prolonged upwards upon it, and it is related to the great vessels of the neck. Posteriorly it is in relation to the pharynx ; by this it is separated from the prevertebral muscles. If we consider the tip of the epiglottis to represent its upper limit, the larynx in the adult may be regarded as being placed in front of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae ; but its position alters some- what with the movements of the head and also during deglutition. Interior of the Larynx.—The cavity of the larynx is smaller than might be expected from an inspection of its exterior. On looking into its interior from above it will be seen to be subdivided into three portions by two elevated folds of mucous membrane which extend from before backwards, and project inwards from each side of the cavity. The upper pair of folds are termed the false vocal cords ; the lower pair receive the name of the true vocal cords because they are the chief agents in the production of the voice. The entire larynx is in a great measure428 HEAD AND NECK. constructed with a view to bring about changes in the relative position and in the degree of tension of the true vocal cords. Fig. 48. Coronal section through the larynx to show the three subdivisions of its cavity —viz., A, B, and C.—(From Luschka.) (1) Hyoid boue. (2) Thyroid cartilage. (3) Cricoid cartilage. (4) First tracheal ring. (5) Thyro-hyoid membrane. The Upper Subdivision of the laryngeal cavity (Fig. 48, A) extends from the superior aperture of the larynx down to the upper or false vocal cords. It is (6) Epiglottis. (7) Cushion or tubercle of epiglottis. (8) False vocal cords. (9) True yocal cord.INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 429 called the vestibule. It is bounded in front by the epiglottis and the upper part of the angular depression between the alas of the thyroid cartilage, behind by the arytenoid cartilages and the mucous membrane which stretches across the mesial plane between them, and on each side by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The width of this portion of the laryngeal cavity diminishes from above downwards and its depth diminishes in a marked degree from before backwards. Above, it communicates with the pharynx by the superior aperture of the larynx, whilst below it is continuous with the middle subdivision of the cavity through the interval between the false vocal cords. The superior aperture of the larynx (ostium pharyn- geum laryngis) has already been examined in the dissection of the pharynx (p. 378). The parts which bound it should again be carefully studied. The epiglottis projects upwards behind the root of the tongue. Its lingual or anterior surface is only free in the upper part of its extent, and is attached to the back part of the tongue by a prominent mesial fold of mucous membrane termed the middle glosso- epiglottidean fold. Two lateral folds are also present which connect its margins with the tongue ; these are called the lateral glosso-epiglottidean folds. Between the two layers of mucous membrane which constitute each of these three frasnula, a small amount of elastic tissue may be found. The posterior free surface of the epiglottis forms, as we have noted, the greater part of the anterior boundary of the vestibule of the larynx.430 HEAD AND NECK. Owing to the tip of the epiglottis being curled forwards, the upper portion of this surface is convex ; this is followed by a slight concavity, and below this it swells out into a marked convexity called the cushion or tubercle of the epiglottis. In laryngoscopic exam- inations the tubercle always appears as a very con- spicuous object. The aryteno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane enclose between their two layers some connective tissue, the aryteno-epiglottidean muscles, and pos- teriorly the cuneiform cartilages, and the cornicula laryngis which surmount the arytenoid cartilages. When the superior aperture is examined by the laryngoscope these cartilages are visible on either side in the form of two small rounded elevations or tubercles. Between the outer aspect of the aryteno-epiglotti- dean fold and the ala of the thyroid cartilage, there is a deep depression of mucous membrane on each side termed the fossa laryngo-pharyngea. Middle Subdivision of the laryngeal cavity (Fig. 48, B).—This is the smallest subdivision of the cavity of the larynx. Above it is bounded by the false vocal cords, below by the true vocal cords, whilst it communicates by the intervals between these folds with the vestibule on the one hand, and the inferior compartment of the larynx on the other. The false vocal cords are two. prominent mucous folds which extend from before backwards on the side walls of the laryngeal cavity. They are soft andINTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 431 somewhat flaccid, and present a free border which is slightly arched—the concavity looking downwards. The interval between the false vocal cords is some- times termed the false glottis, and is considerably wider than that between the true vocal cords. It follows from this, that when the cavity of the larynx is examined from above, the four cords are distinctly visible, but when examined from below the true cords alone can be seen. The true vocal cords are placed immediately below the false cords, and are straight, sharp, and prominent. The mucous membrane which is stretched over them is so thin, that the yellowish colour of the elastic ligaments which support them can readily be dis- cerned. In section each true vocal cord is somewhat prismatic in form, and the free border looks upwards. The true vocal cords are the agents by means of which the voice is produced. The false vocal cords are of little importance in this respect; indeed, they can in great part be destroyed, and no appreciable difference in the voice result. The rima glottidis is the elongated fissure by means of which the middle compartment of the larynx communicates with the lower subdivision. It is placed somewhat below the middle of the laryngeal cavity, of which it constitutes the narrowest part. In front it corresponds to the interval between the true vocal cords; behind it corresponds to the interval between the bases and vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages. It is composed, therefore, of two very distinct parts—(1.) a narrow anterior portion, betweenHEAD AND NECK. 432 the true vocal cords, involving less than two-thirds of •its length, and called fat glottis vocalis; (2.) a broader, shorter portion between the arytenoid cartilages, and termed the glottis respiratoria. The form of the rima glottidis undergoes frequent alterations during life, but during ordinary quiet respiration it is lanceolate in outline. The glottis vocalis presents the form of an elongated triangle with the base directed back- Fig. 49. Transverse section through the larynx at the level of the true vocal cords. {From Luschka.) (5) Processus muscularis. (6) Processus vocalis. (7) True vocal cord. (8) Thyro-aryteuoideus. (1) Aloe of thyroid cartilage. (2) Median lamina of thyroid cartilage. (3) Upper border of posterior lamina of cricoid cartilage. (4) Arytenoid cartilage. wards, whilst the glottis respiratoria is somewhat quadrangular. The length of the entire fissure differs considerably in the two sexes, as will be seen from the following figures which are given by Krause :- Length of Rima Glottidis in Male, 19 to 25 m.m. Do< do. in Female, 14 to 17 m.m. The side wall of the larynx in the interval between the true and the false vocal cords, shows a depressionINTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 433 or recess which is termed the laryngeal shuts. The dissector should endeavour to gauge the extent of this, by means of a probe bent at the extremity. He will note that it passes upwards, so as to undermine somewhat the superior vocal cord, and that its mouth or orifice is narrower than its cavity. Under cover of the fore part of the false vocal cord, an elongated aperture will be detected. This leads into the laryn- geal pouch or sac—a small mucous diverticulum, which ascends between the false vocal cord and the ala of the thyroid cartilage. This sac is of variable extent, but as a rule it ends blindly at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Distend the sinus, and if possible the sac, with cotton wadding. This will greatly facilitate the subsequent dissection. The Lower Subdivision of the Laryngeal Cavity (Fig. 48, C) leads directly downwards into the trachea. Above it is narrow and laterally compressed, but it gradually widens out until in its lowest part it is circular. It is bounded by the lower part of the thyroid cartilage, the crico-thyroid mem- brane, and the cricoid cartilage. It is through the anterior wall of this compartment, that the opening is made in the operation of laryngotomy. The Mucous Membrane of the larynx is continuous above with that lining the pharynx, and below with the' mucous lining of the trachea. Over the epiglottis and true vocal cord it is very tightly part in. 2 FHEAD AND NECK. 434 bound down, and it is plentifully supplied with glands. These, however,* are entirely absent over the true vocal cord and also in its immediate vicinity. Dissection.—Place the larynx upon a block so that its anterior surface looks upwards, and fix it in this position with pins. The branches which the external laryngeal nerve gives to the crico-thyroid Hyoid bone Thyro - hyoid mem brane Thyoid cartilage Middle part of crico thyroid uiembriuie%A^».v. Cricoid cartilage Fig. 50. From Gegendaur. muscle should in the first place be followed out, and carefully preserving the superior and inferior laryn- geal vessels and the internal and recurrent laryngeal nerves, the dissector should in the next place proceed to remove the thyroid body, and the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. The fibres of origin of the inferior constrictor muscle,THE THYRO-HYOID MEMBRANE. 435 should likewise be cleared away from the thyroid and cricoid cartilages. The broad thyro-hyoid membrane, the central portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, and the crico-thyroid muscles are now exposed, and their attachments may be defined. The Thyro-hyoid Membrane is a broad mem- branous sheet, which occupies the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. It is not equally strong throughout, but shows a central thick portion and a cord-like right and left margin, whilst in the intervals between these it is thin and weak. The central thickened part (ligamentum thyro- hyoideum medium) is largely composed of elastic fibres. Above it is attached to the posterior aspect of the upper margin of the body of the hyoid bone, whilst below it is fixed to the sides of the deep med- ian notch, which interrupts the superior border of the thyroid cartilage. The upper part of its anterior sur- face therefore is placed behind the posterior hollowed out surface of the body of the hyoid bone ; a syno- vial bursa is placed between them, and in certain movements of the head and larynx, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage is allowed to slip upwards behind the hyoid bone. On each side of the strong central part, the thyro-hyoid membrane is thin and loose. It is attached below to the upper margin of the ala of the thyroid cartilage and above to the posterior aspect of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It is pierced by the internal laryngeal nerve and superior laryngeal vessels. The posterior border of436 HEAD AND NECK. the membrane on each side is thickened, rounded, and cord-like {ligamentum thyro-hyoideum laterale), and is chiefly composed of elastic fibres. It extends from the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the extremity of superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. In this ligament there is usually developed a small oval cartilaginous or bony nodule, which is termed the cartilago triticea. The Crico-thyroid Muscle is placed on the side of the cricoid cartilage, and bridges over the lateral portion of the crico-thyroid interval. Taking origin from the lower border and outer surface of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, its fibres spread out in an upward and backward direction, and are inserted into the inner aspect of the lower margin of the thyroid cartilage, and also into the anterior border of its inferior cornu. As a general rule it is divided into two parts. The anterior or oblique part is composed of those fibres which are attached to the ala of the thyroid cartilage ; the posterior or horizontal part is formed of those fibres which are inserted into the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. It is closely associated with the inferior constrictor muscle. The crico-thyroid muscle is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. The Middle portion of the Crico-thyroid Membrane can be studied in the interval between the two crico-thyroid muscles. It is a tense elasticCRICO-THYROID MEMBRANE. 437 and strong membrane, which is attached below to the median part of the upper border of the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, and above to the lower margin of the middle portion of the thyroid cartilage. It is pierced by minute apertures, and is crossed super- ficially by the crico-thyroid branch of the superior thyroid artery. On each side, under cover of the crico-thyroid muscle, the lateral part of the crico- thyroid membrane presents very different connections. It is not attached to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, but stretches upwards into the interior of the larynx, and takes part , in the formation of the true vocal cord. At a later stage of the dissection it will be fully exposed. Dissection.—The position of the larynx must now be reversed. Fix it upon the block in such a manner, that its posterior aspect is directed upwards. The oesophagus should then be slit open, by a mesial incision through its posterior wall. Next remove with great care the mucous membrane, which covers the posterior aspect of the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages. In doing this bear in mind that the inferior laryngeal artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, pass upwards between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and must be preserved. Upon the posterior aspect of the broad lamina of the cricoid cartilage, the dissector will now note the two posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, and the attachment of' the anterior band of longitudinal muscular fibres, which belongs to the oesophageal438 HEAD AND NECK. wall. ' This takes origin from the prominent mesial ridge on the back aspect of the cricoid cartilage. On ^posterior surface of the arytenoid cartilages and bridging across the interval between them, the dissector will observe the arytenoid muscle. Especial care must be taken in cleaning this muscle, in order that the connections of the superficial decussating fibres may be fully ascertained. The outer layer of the right aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, should now be cautiously removed. This will expose the aryteno-epiglottidean muscle, the cuneiform cartilage, and the cartilage of Santorini of that side. This is perhaps the most difficult part of the dissection, because the dissector has to establish the continuity of the sparse fibres which compose the pale aryteno-epiglottidean muscle, with the decussating fibres of the arytenoid muscle, and he has also to make out a delicate ligament, which extends downwards from the tip of the cartilage of Santorini to the cricoid cartilage-viz., the ligamentum jugale. The Posterior Orico-arytenoid Muscle is some- what fan-shaped. It springs by a broad origin from the depression which marks the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage on each side of the mesial ridge, and its fibres converge to be inserted into the posterior surface and outer angle of the processus muscularis of the arytenoidcartilage.* Inpu«ui^ "T^p^e^ of *e base of the arytenoid cartilage.439 THE ARYTENOID MUSCLE. this upward and outward course, the fibres run" with different degrees of obliquity. The uppermost fibres are short and nearly horizontal; the intermediate fibres are the longest and are very oblique ; whilst the lowest fibres are almost vertical in their direction. The Arytenoid Muscle consists of two portions ; a superficial part termed the arytenoideus obliquus, and a deeper layer called the arytenoideus trans- versa. The arytenoideus obliquus is composed of two bundles of muscular fibres, each of which springs from the posterior aspect of the outer angle of the base of the corresponding arytenoid cartilage. From these points the two fleshy slips proceed upwards and inwards, and cross each other in the mesial plane like the limbs of the letter X- Reaching the summit of the arytenoid cartilage on each side some of the fibres are inserted into it, but the greater proportion are pro- longed round the base of the cartilage of Santorini into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Here they receive the name of the aryteno-epiglottidean muscle, and as they approach the epiglottis they are joined by the fibres of the thyro-epiglottidean muscle. The oblique arytenoid muscles may therefore be considered as constituting a weak sphincter muscle for the superior aperture of the larynx. Each bundle starting from the base of one of the arytenoid cartilages, is prolonged into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of the opposite side, and along this to the margin of the epiglottis. The arytenoideus transversus is an unpaired muscle.440 HEAD AND NECK. It is composed of transverse fibres which bridge across the interval between the two arytenoid cartilages, and are attached to the posterior concave surfaces of both of these cartilages. Dissection.—The further dissection of the laryn- geal muscles should be confined to the right side of the larynx. The left side should be reserved for the study of the nerves and vessels. Place the larynx on its left side, and having fixed it in this position, remove the right crico-thyroid muscle. The right lateral thyro-hyoid ligament should next be divided, and the right inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage disarticulated from its facet on the side of the cricoid cartilage. An incision should now be made through the right ala of the thyroid cartilage a short distance to the outer side of the mesial plane, and the detached piece carefully re- moved. Three muscles are now exposed, and must be carefully cleaned and defined. They are named from below upwards :— (i.) The lateral crico-arytenoid. (2.) The thyro-arytenoid. (3.) The thyroepiglottidean. The lateral Crico-arytenoid Muscle is triangular in form and smaller than the crico-arytenoideus posticus. It springs from the upper border of the lateral part of the cricoid cartilage as far back as the facet which supports the base of the arytenoid cartilage ; a few of its fibres likewise take origin441 THYRO-ARYTENOID MUSCLE. from the crico-thyroid membrane. From this attachment its fibres run backwards and upwards, and converge to be inserted into the anterior surface and lower border of the processus muscularis or outer angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The superficial or outer surface of this muscle is covered by the ala of the thyroid cartilage and the upper part of the crico-thyroid muscle; its deep surface is applied to the lateral part of the crico- thyroid membrane. Thyro-arytenoid Muscle.—This is a muscular sheet which is placed above the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The contiguous margins of these muscles are sometimes found so intimately blended that it is impossible to effect a natural separation. The thyro-arytenoid muscle is usually described as consisting of a superficial and a deep portion termed respectively the thyro-arytenoideus externus and internus. This subdivision, however, cannot be regarded as a natural one seeing that the two parts are as a general rule inseparably united, and can only be isolated from each other by artificial means. The thyro-arytenoideus externus is a broad muscular layer which lies immediately subjacent to the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Its lower border is in contact with the lateral crico-arytenoid muscle whilst its upper border is placed at a higher level than the true vocal cord. Some of its upper fibres, therefore, are in relation to the-wall of the laryngeal sinus. In front, the thyro-arytenoideus externus arises from the lower442 HEAD AND NECK. half of the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, close to the angle, and also from the crico- thyroid membrane. Its fibres pass backwards and are inserted into the outer border and muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage. A certain porportion of its fibres turn upwards and backwards to reach the epiglottis. These constitute the thyro-epiglotti- dean muscle. The thyro-arytenoideus interims is a slender three- sided muscular band which is closely applied to the outer side of the true vocal cord, and receives its prismatic form from this adaptation. It arises in front from the angular depression between the two alee of the thyroid cartilages, and is inserted behind into the outer aspect of the processus vocalis, and also into the adjoining part of the antero- external surface of the arytenoid cartilage. The thyro-arytenoideus internus is thicker behind than in front. This is due to the fact that whilst all the fibres which compose it are attached to the ary- tenoid cartilage, only a certain proportion obtain origin from the thyroid cartilage. A large number of the deeper fibres are directly attached at different points to the outer side of the true vocal cord. These constitute the ary-vocalis muscle * (Ludwig). *A muscle termed the thyro-arytenoideus superior is fre- quently present. It is a slender band which arises from the inner aspect of the ala of the thyroid cartilage close to the notch, and passes backwards and downwards to find insertion into the lateral border of the arytenoid cartilage immediately above the processus muscularis.THE THYRO-ARY-EPIGLOTTIDEAN MUSCLE. 443 The Thyro-ary-epiglottidean Muscle is com- posed of fibres derived from the arytenoideus obliquus and the thyro-arytenoideus externus. They meet in the upper part of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, and are inserted into the margin of the epiglottis. Dissection.—The lateral crico-arytenoid muscle should now be carefully removed, and at the same time the dissector should endeavour to disengage the fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus externus from the deeper thyro-arytenoideus internus, in order that its relation to the true vocal cord may be studied. Finally remove the entire thyro-arytenoid muscle. This will display the outer surface of the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane, the true vocal cord or inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, and the wall of the laryngeal sinus. By carefully dissecting between the two layers of mucous membrane which clothe the false vocal cord, the weak superior thyro-arytenoid ligament which gives it support may be discovered as well as a number of racemose glands which lie in relation to it. Lateral part of the Crico-thyroid Membrane. —The central part of the crico-thyroid membrane, as we have noted, closes in front the interval between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. On each side, however, the lateral part of the same membrane is not attached to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, but slopes upwards and inwards and444 HEAD AND NECK. very materially diminishes the transverse width of the lower subdivision of the laryngeal cavity in its upper part. The attachments which it effects are very definite. Below it is fixed to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage immediately sub- jacent to the mucous membrane; in front it is attached to the lower half of the inner surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, close to the angle; and behind to the lower border of the processus vocalis of the arytenoid cartilage. Above it is directly con- Diagram to show the connections of the crico-thyroid membrane.-(From Aeby.) (a) Crico-thyroid membrane. The extension upwards of its two lateral parts to form (a) Cricoid cartilage. (b, 6') The two arytenoid cartilages, (c) Thyroid cartilage. The right ala has beou removed. the true vocal cords is seen. tinuous with the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament or true vocal cord. The latter, indeed, may be looked upon as constituting its upper, thickened, free border. In contact with its outer surface are the lateral crico - arytenoid and the thyro-arytenoid muscles, whilst its inner surface is clothed by the lining mucous membrane of the larynx. The Inferior Thyro-arytenoid Ligament or true vocal cord is formed in connection with the upper free \INFERIOR THYRO-ARYTENOID LIGAMENT. 445 border of the lateral part of the crico-thyroid mem- brane. It is attached in front, close to its fellow of the opposite side, to the middle of the angular depres- sion between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage. From this it stretches backwards, and is fixed behind to the tip and upper border of the processus vocalis, which projects forwards from the base of the aryte- noid cartilage. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament is composed of yellow elastic fibres, and measures from its anterior attachment to the point of the processus vocalis from 14 to 16 m.m. in the male, and from 9 to 11 m.m. in the female (Krause). Its inner border is sharp and free, and is clothed by mucous membrane, which in this position is thin and firmly bound down to the ligament. Embedded in its anterior extremity there is a minute nodule of condensed elastic tissue. By removing the mucous membrane which lines the bottom of the laryngeal sinus the dissector will obtain a good view of the parts which bound the rima glottidis—viz., in front, the angle of the thyroid cartilage; behind, the arytenoideus trans- versa muscle; on each side, the inferior thyro-aryte- noid ligament, the processus vocalis, and the inner surface of the arytenoid cartilage (p. 431). These parts are clothed by the lining mucous membrane of the larynx. The Superior Thyro-arytenoid Ligament sup- ports the false 'vocal cord. It is weak and indefinite, but somewhat longer than the preceding ligament.446 HEAD AND NECK. In front it is attached to the angular depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, above the true vocal cords, and immediately below the attachment of the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, and extends backwards to be fixed to a tubercle on the antero-external surface of the arytenoid cartilage above the processus vocalis. It is composed of con- nective tissue and elastic fibres, which are continuous with the fibrous tissue in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. Dissection.—Remove the remains of the aryteno- epiglottidean fold, the vocal cords, and the lateral part of the crico-thyroid membrane on the right side of the larynx, but be careful not to injure the arytenoid cartilage and the cartilage of the Santorini. Should the cuneiform cartilage be present in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold it should be detached and preserved. By this dissection a closer view of the side wall of the laryngeal cavity can be obtained. The undissected vocal cords of the left side should again be examined, the laryngeal sinus and pouch explored, and their precise connections and extent determined. When the student has satisfied himself upon these points he can proceed to display the vessels and nerves of the larynx. The superior laryngeal artery and the internal laryngeal nerve reach the larynx by piercing the outer thin part of the thyro-hyoid membrane. By applying traction to the nerve, and at the same time dividing the mucous membrane upon the inner surface of the thyro-hyoid ligament, they can easily be discovered.THE INTERNAL LARYNGEAL NERVE. 447 In following the branches into which they divide the mucous membrane must be gradually removed from the inner wall of the larynx. The inferior laryngeal artery and nerve enter from below, and proceed upwards, under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. They can only be satisfactorily displayed by the removal of this piece of cartilage, but the dissector is not recommended to adopt this method unless another larynx is available for the examination of the cartilages and joints. By drawing the thyroid cartilage well outwards the more important branches can be studied. The Internal Laryngeal Nerve.—In the dissec- tion of the neck this nerve has been observed to arise from the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus. It is a sensory nerve, and its branches are chiefly distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. Piercing the lateral part of the thyro-hyoid ligament it divides into three branches. The uppermost of these sends filaments to the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, to the mucous membrane which covers the epiglottis, and to the glosso-epiglottidean folds. The twigs which go to the epiglottis ramify on its posterior surface, but many of them pierce the cartilage to reach the mucous member on its anterior surface. The intermediate branch of the internal laryngeal nerve breaks up into filaments which are given to the mucous membrane lining the side wall of the larynx. The lowest branch descends and gives filaments to the mucous membrane which covers theHEAD AND NECK. 448 outer and back aspects of the arytenoid and cricoid cartilages. A well-marked twig proceeds from this branch and runs downwards upon the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerve has previously been seen to arise from the vagus, and it has been traced in the neck up to the point where it disappears under cover of the lower border of the inferior con- strictor muscle. It now is observed to ascend upon the outer aspect of cricoid cartilage, immediately behind the crico-thyroid joint. Here it is joined by the com- municating twig from the internal laryngeal nerve, and almost immediately afterwards it divides into two branches. The larger of these proceeds upwards, under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and breaks up into filaments which supply the lateral crico-arytenoid, the thyro-arytenoid, and the thyro- ary-epiglottidean muscles ; the smaller or posterior branch inclines upwards and backwards upon the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage, and under cover of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. It supplies twigs to this muscle, and is then continued onwards to end in the arytenoid muscle. The recurrent laryngeal nerve is therefore the motor nerve of the larynx. It supplies all the muscles with the exception of the crico-thyroid which draws its nerve-supply from the external laryngeal. The inferior laryngeal nerve, however, is usually considered to contain a few sensory fibres. These it gives to theLATERAL CARTILAGES AND JOINTS. 449 mucous membrane of the larynx below the rima glottidis. Laryngeal Arteries—The superior laryngeal artery, a branch of the superior thyroid, accompanies the internal laryngeal nerve; the inferior laryngeal artery which springs from the inferior thyroid accom- panies the recurrent laryngeal nerve. These two vessels ramify in the laryngeal wall and supply the mucous membrane, glands and muscles. LARYNGEAL CARTILAGES AND JOINTS. The cartilages which constitute the skeleton of the larynx and give support to its walls are the following:— (4.) Arytenoid, . . \ (1.) Thyroid, \ (5.) Cornicula laryngis 1 (2.) Cricoid, V single. or cartilages of \ paired. (3.) Epiglottis, J Santorini, . . j (6.) Cuneiform, . . ) They are held together by certain ligaments and joints. The mucous membrane and muscles must be care- fully removed from the cartilages, and the epiglot- tidean, crico-thyroid, and crico-arytenoid ligaments defined. Great caution must be exercised in clean- ing the arytenoid cartilages and the cartilages of Santorini, in order that the slender ligaments which attach the latter to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage may be preserved. (Fig. 53, p. 455.) part in. 2 G450 HEAD AND NECK. The Epiglottis is a thin leaf-like lamina of yellow fibro-cartilage placed behind the root of the tongue and in front of the superior opening of the larynx. When divested of the mucous membrane which covers it, it will be seen to present a somewhat heart-shaped form, and to be indented by deep pits and numerous perforations in which glands are lodged. Its broad end is directed upwards and is free ; its margins are almost completely enclosed within the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. The anterior surface is only free in its upper part; below, it is in relation to the thyro- hyoid ligament, from which, however, it is separated by adipose tissue and some mucous glands. The posterior surface is free in all its extent and bounds the vestibule of the larynx in front. Epiglottidean Ligaments.—The epiglottis is bound by ligaments to the root of the tongue, to the hyoid bone and to the thyroid cartilage. The three glosso-epiglottidean folds have already been studied. In each there is a small quantity of elastic tissue. The hyo-epiglottidean ligament is a short, broad elastic band which connects the anterior face of the epiglottis to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. The thyro-epiglottidean ligament is strong, elastic and thick. It proceeds downwards from the lower pointed extremity of the epiglottis, and is attached to the angular depression between the two alse of the thyroid cartilage, below and behind the median notch. The epiglottis guards the superior aperture of the larynx. In deglutition, the bolus of food coming inTHE THYROID CARTILAGE. 45 I contact with its anterior surface presses it down- wards over the laryngeal aperture like a lid or a valve. As soon as the bolus has passed beyond this point the epiglottis springs up into its former position by reason of its own elasticity and that of its ligaments. But the process is facilitated by the ascent of the thyroid cartilage during deglutition : this renders the epiglottidean ligaments lax, and permits the more easy folding downwards of the cartilage. Again the descent of the thyroid cartilage after this stage of deglutition is completed, stretches the elastic epiglottidean ligaments and erects the epiglottis. The Thyroid is the largest of the laryngeal cartilages. It is composed of two broad somewhat quadrilateral plates, termed the alee, which meet in front at an acute angle and constitute the projection in the neck known as the pomum Adami. This is more prominent in its upper part than below,'and is always more marked in the male than in the female. From the pomum Adami the two alae diverge back-' wards and outwards, like the limbs of the letter V, so as to enclose between them the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage and the arytenoid cartilages. The upper border of each ala is somewhat convex, but in front it is cut away or bevelled off so that with the corresponding part of the opposite ala a deep median notch is formed. This is called the incisura thyroidea. The lower border is nearly straight, but is subdivided by a slight tubercle into an anterior and a posterior concave part. The posterior border is452 HEAD AND NECK. thick and rounded and gives attachment to the fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles. Above and below this' border projects in the form of a prominent process. These are termed the comua. The superior cornua are longer than the inferior cornua, and give attachment to Fig. 52. Cartilages of larynx seen from the front.-(^/« Luschk a. (5) intermediate lamina. This is a part of the (1) Trachea. • —* (2) Cricoid cartilage. (3) Central part of crico-thyroid membrane (4) Ala: of thyroid cartilage cartilage which is more or less distinct from the aloe and connects them at the pomum Adami. It is not described in text. \*k] rti.x:wfcv«j. - the lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments. The shorter, stronger inferior cornu curves slightly inwards. On the inner aspect of its tip there is a facet which articulates with the side of the cnco.d cartilage. The outer surface of the ala .s flat. Immediately below the posterior part of the upper453 THE CRICOTHYROID JOINT. border and in front of the root of the superior cornu there is a distinct tubercle. From this an oblique ridge descends towards the tubercle on the lower border of the ala. It gives attachment to the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, and divides the outer surface of the ala into an anterior and a posterior part. To the latter, which is much the smaller of the two, is attached the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx. The inner surface of the ala is smooth and slightly concave. To the angular depression between the two alae are attached the thyro-epiglottidean ligament, the superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, and the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The Orico-thyroid Joint or the articulation on each side between the tip of the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and the side of the cricoid cartilage belongs to the diarthrodial variety. The opposed surfaces are surrounded by a capsular ligament which is lined by a synovial membrane. The movements which take place at these joints are of a two-fold character—viz., (i.) gliding; (2.) rotatory. In the case of the former the two opposed surfaces glide upon each other in different directions. The rotatory movement is one around a transverse axis which passes through the centre of each joint. The capsular ligament is strengthened by a stout band on the posterior aspect of the joint. The thyroid cartilage should now be removed, by dividing the ligaments which surround the crico- thyroid joint.454 HEAD AND NECK. The Cricoid Cartilage is shaped like a signet ring. The broad posterior lamina is somewhat quadrilateral in form. Its superior border presents a faintly marked mesial notch, and on each side of this there is an oval convex facet which is directed outwards and upwards and articulates with the base of the' arytenoid cartilage. The posterior surface of the lamina is divided by an elevated median ridge, into two slightly hollowed out areas which give attachment to the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles. The mesial ridge itself gives origin to the fibres which form the anterior longitudinal muscular band of the oesophagus. In front of the posterior lamina, the ring of the cricoid cartilage is com- pleted by an anterior arch. The lower border of this is horizontal, and is connected to the first tracheal ring by membrane. The arch is narrow in front, and is attached to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage, by the middle portion of the crico-thyroid membrane. Behind this the upper border rapidly ascends. Upon the posterior part of the lateral surface of the cricoid cartilage, there is a circular, slightly elevated convex facet which looks outwards' and upwards for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Internally the cricoid cartilage is lined by mucous membrane. Inferiorly the lumen is circular, but above it is elliptical. Cartilages of Santorini {cornicula laryngis).— Before proceeding to the study of the arytenoid cartil-ARYTENOID CARTILAGES. 455 ages the dissector should examine the cartilages of Santorini and the manner in which they are held in position. They are two minute pyramidal nodules of yellow elastic cartilage which are placed on the summits of the arytenoid cartilages and are directed backwards and inwards. Each cartilage of Santorini is enclosed within the corresponding aryteno-epiglot- tidean fold of mucous membrane, and is joined to the apex of the arytenoid cartilage by a joint which Facet for thyroid cartilage. Fig. s3. Posterior view of the cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages.— {From Luschka.) (1) Posterior lamina of cricoid cartilage. (2) Arytenoid cartilage. (3) Cartilage of Santorini. (4) Sesamoid cartilage. (5) Ligamentum jugale. may either partake of the nature of diarthrosis or synchondrosis. The tips of the two cornicula laryngis are connected to the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage by a Y - shaped ligament termed the ligamentum jugale. Arytenoid Cartilages—In dealing with the aryte- noid cartilages it is well to remove one in order that its external form may be studied ; the other should456 HEAD AND NECK. be retained in position for the purpose of afterwards examining the crico-arytenoid joint, and the move- ments which can be performed at this articulation. The arytenoid cartilages are pyramidal in form, and surmount the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage. The apex of each is directed upwards, and at the same time curved backwards and inwards. It supports the cartilage of Santorini. Of the three surfaces one looks directly inwards towards the corresponding surface of the opposite cartilage, from which it is separated by a narrow interval; another looks backwards; whilst the third is directed outwards and forwards. The internal surface is narrow, vertical and even, and is clothed by mucous membrane. The posterior surface is concave ; it lodges and gives attachment to the arytenoideus transversus. The antero-external surface is the most extensive of the three, and is uneven for muscular and ligamentous attachments. Upon this aspect of the arytenoid cartilage the thyro- arytenoid muscle is inserted, whilst a small tubercle placed a short distance above the base gives attach- ment to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament—the supporting ligament of the false vocal cord. The surfaces of the arytenoid cartilage are separated by three borders—viz., an anterior, a posterior, and an external. The external border is the longest, and at the base of the cartilage it is prolonged outwards and backwards in the form of a stout prominent angle, or process, termed the processus muscularis. Into the front of this the crico-aryten-THE CRICO-ARYTENOID ARTICULATION. 457 oideus lateralis is inserted; into its posterior aspect the crico-arytenoideus posticus is inserted. Near the apex of the arytenoid cartilage a small nodule of yellow elastic cartilage is frequently placed upon the external border and is held in this position by the investing perichondrium. It is termed the sesamoid cartilage. The anterior border of the arytenoid cartilage is prolonged into the projecting anterior angle of the base. This is called the processus vocalis. It is sharp and pointed, is directed horizontally forwards, and gives attach- ment to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament or true vocal cord. The base of the arytenoid cartilage presents an elongated concave facet on its under aspect, for articulation with the upper border of the posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage. The Crico-arytenoid Articulation is of the diarthrodial variety. There is a distinct joint cavity surrounded by capsular ligament which is lined by a synovial membrane. The cricoid articular surface is convex, that of the arytenoid concave ; both are elongated in form, but they are placed in relation to each other, so that the long axis of the one intersects or crosses that of the other, and in no position of the joint do the two surfaces accurately coincide ; a por- tion of the cricoid surface is always left uncovered. The movements allowed at this joint, as the dissector can readily determine, are of a two-fold kind—(1.) glidings by which the arytenoid is carried inwards or outwards, or in other words, a movement by which theHEAD AND NECK. 458 arytenoid advances towards or retreats from its fellow ; (2.) rotatory, by which the arytenoid cartilage turns round a vertical axis. By this movement the vocal process is swung outwards or inwards, so as to open or close the rima glottidis. The dissector should note that the capsule of this joint is strengthened behind by a strong band which plays a most important part in the mechanism of the articulation. It acts in such a manner that it arrests forward movement of the arytenoid cartilage. The Cuneiform Cartilages are two little conical nodules of yellow elastic cartilage, which are placed one in each arytenoid-epiglottidean fold near its back part. They are not always present. Action of the Laryngeal Muscles.—The dis- sector should now consider the manner in which the muscles of the larynx operate upon the true vocal cords in the production of the voice. Tension of the vocal cords is effected by the contraction of the crico- thyroid muscles. In this action the thyroid cartilage is more or less fixed. The oblique parts of the muscles raise the anterior arch of the cricoid cartilage, which causes the upper border of its posterior lamina with the arytenoid cartilages to pass backwards and down- wards. At the same time the posterior horizontal parts of the muscles tend through their insertion into the inferior cornua to draw the thyroid cartilage for- wards. When the cricothyroid muscles cease to contract, the relaxation of the cords is brought about459 THE TONGUE. by the elasticity of the ligaments. The thyroary- tenoid muscles must be regarded as antagonistic to the crico-thyroid muscles. When they contract, they draw forward the arytenoid cartilages and posterior lamina of the cricoid cartilage, and still further relax the cords, and when they cease to act, the elastic ligaments again bring about a state of equilibrium. The ary-vocales muscles, by the insertion of their fibres into the true vocal cords, may tighten portions of the cords, and, at the same time, relax the parts behind. The width of the rima glottidis is affected by the arytenoideus, which approximates the arytenoid cartil- ages and by the crico-arytenoidei laterales and postici. The crico-arytenoidei postici, by drawing the muscu- lar processes of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and backwards, swing the processus vocales and the vocal cords outwards, and thus open the rima. The crico-arytenoidei laterales are antagonistic muscles, and by drawing the muscular processes in an opposite direction, close the rima. The thyro-ary-epiglottidean muscle acts as a sphincter of the superior laryngeal aperture. THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ placed on the floor of the mouth. It has important duties to perform in connection with the functions of mastication, deglutition, and articulation. Moreover, the mucous membrane which covers it is specially modified in460 HEAD AND NECK. certain localities in connection with the peripheral terminations of the nerves of taste. The root, or broad posterior extremity of the tongue, is attached to the hyoid bone ; in front, the pointed extremity is free. The dorsal aspect of its base forms the lower boundary of the isthmus faucium, and is surmounted on each side by the tonsil. Mucous Membrane.—The lingual mucous mem- brane is a part of the general mucous lining of the buccal cavity, and it envelops the dorsum, sides, tip, and under surface of the tongue. It presents different appearances in different localities. Thus over the posterior part of the dorsum, in the region which is bounded behind by the epiglottis, and on either side by the tonsil, the mucous membrane is smooth, and presents no papillae which are visible to the unaided eye. It is from this district that the three glosso- epiglottidean folds take origin, and every here and there the surface is studded with low projections which are produced by lymphoid follicles, placed sub- jacent to the mucous membrane. About an inch or so in front of the epiglottis, a median depression termed the foramen ccecum may be noticed, and in front of this the mucous membrane which covers the dorsum, sides, and tip of the tongue is beset with papillae of different kinds. As these are individually visible to the naked eye, the mucous membrane presents a very characteristic appearance. Further a mesial groove or sulcus called the raphe, extends backwards from the tip of the tongue to the foramen461 THE LINGUAL PAPILLA. caecum, and divides the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum into two lateral parts. On the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane is smooth and comparatively thin. In the mesial plane it forms the frcenum Ungues, which has been studied at an earlier stage. On either side of the median line the lingual vein may be noticed in the living subject stretching forwards towards the tip. To the outer side of this, and, therefore, somewhat nearer the border of the tongue, is a delicate and feebly marked fold of mucous membrane, from the free border of which a row of fringe-like processes or fimbriae project. It is termed the plica fimbriata, and as it extends forwards towards the tip of the tongue it inclines towards the mesial plane, and its neighbour of the opposite side. On the side of the tongue immediately in front of the lingual attachment of the anterior pillar of the fauces, five short vertical fissures in the mucous membrane separated by intervening folds may be noticed. This arrangement is termed the papilla foliata. It is the representative of a leaf-like condition of the mucous membrane, which is much more highly developed in certain of the lower animals (hare and rabbit), and which is specially concerned in receiving the impressions of taste. The Lingual Papillae are of three kinds, and differ in size, shape, and in the position they occupy on the surface of the tongue. They are termed the circum- yallate, the fungiform, and the conical. The circumvallate papillce are the largest, and areHEAD AND NECK. 462- placed on the posterior part of the dorsum in two rows, which diverge from each other in an outward and forward direction, like the two limbs of the letter V- The foramen caecum forms the apex of the V> and the papillae vary in number from seven to twelve. In form a circumvallate papilla is broad and somewhat cylindrical, slightly narrower at its attached than at its free extremity, and sunk in a pit. It is surrounded by a deep trench, the walls of which are slightly raised beyond the general surface of the mucous membrane. The free extremity of each papilla is therefore encircled by an annular elevation, which is termed the vallum. The fungiform papilla are much smaller, but are present in much greater numbers. They are chiefly found on the tip and sides of the tongue, but they are also scattered at irregular intervals over the dorsum. They are very characteristic in form. Each papillae presents a large, full, rounded knob-like extremity, while it is greatly constricted at the point where it springs from the mucous surface. In the living tongue the fungiform papillae are distinguished by their bright red colour. The conical papilla are present in very large numbers. They are smaller than the fungiform variety, and although they are quite visible to the naked eye, they can be more conveniently studied by the aid of an ordinary pocket-lens. They are minute conical projections from the mucous membrane which taper towards their free extremities, and occupy the dorsum and sides of the tongue in front of the foramenMUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 4^3 caecum. They are arranged in parallel rows which are placed close together, and in the back part of the tongue these diverge from the mesial raphe" in a forward and outward direction. Towards the tip of the tongue the rows of conical papillae become more or less transverse in direction, and on the sides of the tongue they are arranged perpendicularly. Muscles of the Tongue.—The tongue is almost entirely composed of muscular fibres, with some adipose tissue intermixed. It is divided into two lateral halves by a mesial septum, and the muscles in connection with each of these consist of an intrinsic and an extrinsic group. They are as follows:— Extrinsic Muscles, ' (1.) Genio-hyo-glossus. (2.) Hyo-glossus. (3.) Chondro-glossus. (4.) Styloglossus. (5.) Palato-glossus. (1.) Superficial lingual. (2.) Inferior lingual. Intrinsic Muscles, <| ^ VerticaL (4.) Transverse. The extrinsic muscles take origin from parts outside the tongue, and thus are not only capable of giving rise to changes in the form of the organ, but also of producing changes in its position. The intrinsic muscles, which are placed entirely within the substance of the tongue, are, for the most part, only capable of giving rise to alterations in its form.464 HEAD AND NECK. With the exception of the chondro-glossus, the extrinsic muscles have already been studied, but the dissector should take this opportunity of examining more fully their insertions, and the manner in which their fibres are related to each other, and to those of the intrinsic muscles. For this purpose, carefully reflect the mucous membrane from the right half of the tongue, and follow the muscles into that side of Fig. 54. Muscles of the Tongue.—{From Gegenbaur.) the organ. At the same time the lingual nerves and the ranine artery1 should be preserved. On the under surface of the tongue near the tip, the removal of the mucous membrane will expose a group of glands aggregated together, so as to form a small oval mass on each side of the mesial plane. The stylo-glossus will be observed to run along theMUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. 465 side of the tongue to the tip where the two muscles become to a certain extent continuous. The hyo- glossus extends upwards to the side of the tongue and its fibres pass for the most part under cover of those of the stylo-glossus to reach the dorsum, over the back part of which they spread out beneath the the mucous membrane. The genio-hyo-glossus sends its fibres vertically upwards into the tongue on each side of the mesial septum, and its insertion stretches from the tip to the base. The fibres of the palato- glossus become continuous with those which form the stratum transversum. Fig. 55- Transverse section through the hinder part of the tongue.— {Froin Gegenbaur.) The chondro-glossus is not always present. It is separated from the deep surface of the hyo-glossus by the lingual vessels, and by the pharyngeal slip of the genio-hyo-glossus (p. 275). It is a slender muscular band which takes origin from the inner aspect of the root of the lesser cornu, and the adjoining part of the body of the hyoid bone. Its fibres ascend to enter the tongue, and finally spread out on the dorsum under cover of the lingualis superior. The superficial lingual muscle (lingualis superior) is part in. 2 H466 HEAD AND NECK. a continuous layer of longitudinal fibres which covers the entire dorsum linguae, from the root to the tip, immediately beneath the mucous membrane. Towards the base of the tongue it is thinner than in front, and here, it is overlapped by the transverse fibres of the hyo-glossus, and is intermixed with the fibres of the chondro-glossus. The inferior lingual muscle (lingualis inferior) is a rounded fleshy belly which is placed upon the Fig. 56. Longitudinal section through the tongue.-{From Aeby.) (c) Lingualis superior. (/). Lingualis inferior. (d) Lamellae of stratum Irausversum. {g) Genio-hyoid. (a) Genio-hyo-glossus. (a) Hyoid bone. inferior aspect of the tongue. Behind, it lies in the interval between the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo- glossus and shows an attachment to the hyoid bone ; in front it is prolonged to the apex of the tongue between the inner border of the stylo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus ; with the former it is more or less blended. The transverse muscular fibres (stratum trans- versum) lie under the lingualis superior, and constitute a thick layer which extends outwards from the lateralNERVES AND VESSELS OE THE TONGUE. 467 face of the septum linguae, to reach the dorsum and side of the tongue. The fibres of genio-hyo-glossus ascend through the stratum transversum and break it up into numerous lamellae (Fig. 56 d). It is joined by the fibres of the palato-glossus (Henle), (Fig. 55). The vertical muscular fibres (stratum perpendiculare) extend in a curved direction from the dorsum to the under aspect of the tongue, and decussate with the fibres of the stratum transversum. c - Fig. 57. Transverse section through the tongue.—(Front Aeby.) (a) Genio-glossus. (6) Hyo-glossus. (c) Stylo-glossus. (rf) Stratum trausversum. (e) Lingualis superior. (/) Lingualis inferior. (g) Geuio-hyoid. (/3) Hyoid bone. Nerves and Vessels of the Tongue.—The nerves of the tongue are—(1.) the glosso-pharyngeal ; (2.) the lingual ; (3.) the hypoglossal; and (4.) a few twigs from the internal laryngeal. These should be traced on the left side of the tongue, where the mucous membrane is still in position. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve has been traced up to the point where it disappears under cover of the hyo- glossus muscle. Here it divides into two branches.468 HEAD AND NECK. The smaller of these extends forwards upon the side of the tongue, and may be traced as far as a point midway between the root and the tip. The larger branch turns upwards and is distributed to mucous membrane which invests the posterior third of the dorsum linguae. It gives twigs to the circum- vallate papillae, and some fine filaments may be followed to the anterior surface of the epiglottis. The glossopharyngeal nerve is the principal nerve of taste. The lingual and hypoglossal nerves are described in* pp. 271 and 273, and their terminal branches should now be traced as far as it is possible to do so. The internal laryngeal nerve gives a few delicate filaments to the glosso-epiglottidean folds and the mucous membrane of the root of the tongue. The ranine artery should be followed to the tip of the tongue, where it forms a small loop, or anastom- osis with its fellow of the opposite side (p. 277). Septum Linguae.—The septum of the tongue can best be seen by making a transverse section through the organ. This will also in a measure demonstrate the stratum transversum and stratum perpendiculare of muscular fibres. The septum is a mesially placed fibrous partition. It is strongest behind, where it is attached to the hyoid bone. THE END.INDEX. Abducent nerve, 31, 311, 334. Accessorius muscle, 59- Acromial cutaneous nerves, 107. Aggar nasi, 405. Alveolar plexus, 392. Angular artery, 225. vein, II, 226. Ansse Vieussenii, 302. Anti-helix, 226. Anti-tragus, 226. muscle, 229. Aperture of Eustachian tube, 378, 385. larynx, 378, 429. mouth, 363. nares, 377, 402. oesophagus, 379. Aponeuroses. epicranial, 4. lumbar, 55. , of the pharynx, 375. of the soft palate, 383. temporal, 241, 242. vertebral, 53. Appendages of the eye, 193. Arachnoid membrane of the cord, 86. Arachnoidal villi, 17. Arches of soft palate, 368. Arteries. angularis faciei, 225. buccalis, 251, 252. carotis communis. 175. externa, 179. interna, 179. centralis retinae, 330. cervicalis ascendens, 164. profunda, 65, 166. ciliares anteriores, 330. posteriores, 330. coronaria labii inferioris, 225. superioris, 225. crico-thyroidea, 142, 182. dentalis anterior, 392. inferior, 251. posterior, 252. dorsalis linguae, 276. ethmoidalis anterior, 330, 331 414. posterior, 330, 331 414. facialis, 223. frontalis, 10, 331. hyoidea lingualis, 1S4. thyroideoe, 182.INDEX. 470 Arteries—continued. incisoria, 263. infra-orbitalis, 392. internal mammary, 166. lachrymalis, 234, 330. laryngealis inferior, 449. superior, 449. lingualis, 183, 275. masseterica, 245, 251. maxillaris interna, 249, 419. meningea magna, 38, 256, 314. parva, 39, 256, 314. meninges anteriores, 39, 331. posteriores, 39. mylo-hyoidea, 140, 251. nasalis, 331. lateralis, 225. septi, 225, 400. occipitalis, 12, 49, 6l, 186. ophthalmica, 329. palatina inferior, 185, 283, 3S3. superior, 384, 419. palpebralis inferior, 234, 331. superior, 234, 331. petrosa, 314. pharyngea ascendens, 188, 281. princeps cervicis, 63, 67. profunda cervicis, 66, 166. pterygoideae, 251. pterygo-palatina, 419. ranina, 275. spheno-palatina, 413, 419. stylo-mastoidea, 187. subclavia, 119, 158. sublingualis, 276. submen talis, 185. superficialis cervicalis, 51. supra-orbitalis, 10, 330. scapularis, 51, 122. temporales profunda;, 251. temporalis, anterior, II. media, 204. Arter 1 es—continued. temporalis, posterior, II. superficialis, 11, 203. thyroidea ima, 144. inferior, 164. superior, 181. tonsillaris, 185, 283. transversalis colli, 51, 165. faciei, 203. tympanica, 256. Vidiana, 419. Articulations. atlanto-axial, 353. of cervical vertebra, 349. crico-arytenoid, 457. crico-thyroid, 453. of lower jaw, 253. occipito-atlantal, 353. sterno-clavicular, 152. Aryteno-epiglottidean folds, 378, 43°- Arytenoid cartilages, 455. muscle, 439. Ascending cervical artery, 164. vein, 165. pharyngeal artery, 188, 282. Atrium meatus medii, 404. Attollens aurem, 85. Attrahens aurem, 6. Auditory nerve, 31, 425. Auricle, 226. Auricular artery, posterior, 11, 187. nerves, great, 9, 46, 106. posterior, 9, 217. vein, 103. . branch of vagus, 217, 292. Auriculo-temporal nerve, 9, 260. Auricularis magnus nerve, 9, 46,106. Axis, thyroid, 164. Azygos uvula; muscle, 381.INDEX. 471 Back, dissection of, 41. Base of the skull, arteries of, 38. dissection of, 32, 3°5- nerves of, 29. blood-sinuses of, 32. Basilar sinus, 37. Bicuspid teeth, 366. Brachial plexus, 123. Brain, preservation of, 24. removal of, 13. Buccal artery, 251. nerve, 222, 259. Buccinator muscle, 212. Bulbus olfactorius, 30, 411. Canthi, 194. Canine teeth, 366. Capsule of Tenon, 336. Cardiac nerve, inferior, 302. middle, 301. of pneumo-gastric, 295. superior, 300. Carotid arteiy, external, 179. internal, 280. common, 175. sheath, 111. Cartilages. arytenoid, 455. cricoid, 454. cuneiform, 458. of the ear, 227. thyroid, 451. of the nose, 239, 397. of Santorini, 454. sesamoid, 457. Caruncula lachrymalis, 195. Cavernous sinus, 36, 306. Central artery of the retina, 330. Cervical fascia, 107. Cervical ganglion, inferior, 299. middle, 301. superior, 301. glands, 118. nerves, anterior branches, 123, 170. posterior, 67. plexus of nerves, 170. Cervicalis, ascendens artery, 164. muscle, 56. vein, 165. profunda artery, 166. vein, 167. superficialis nerve, 106. Cervico-facial nerve, 219. Check ligaments, 361. Cheeks, 365. Chondro-glossus muscle, 465. Chorda tympani nerve, 424. Chordae vocales, 430. Willisii, 20. Ciliary arteries, 330. nerves of nasal, 327. of lenticular ganglion, 329. Circular sinus, 38. Circulus tonsillaris, 289. Common ocular tendon, superior, 333. inferior, 333. Complexus muscle, 63. Compressor naris, 213. Concha, 226. Concha suprema, 409. Conical papilla?, 462. Conjunctiva, 195. Constrictor inferior, 371. middle, 373. superior, 373. ICornicula laryngis, 454. Coronary vessels of the lips, 225. Corpus thyroideum, 188. Corrugator supercilii muscle, 206.472 INDEX. Costoclavicular or rhomboid liga- ment, 153. Cotunnius, nerve of, 399, 416. Cranial aponeurosis, 6. nerves, 29. Crico-arytenoid articulation, 457. muscle, lateral, 440. posterior, 43§- thyroid articulation, 453. membrane, 436, 443. muscle, 436. Cricoid cartilage, 454. Cuneiform cartilages, 458. Cutaneous nerves of theface, 197,220. of the head, 6. of the neck, 44, 104, 106. Decussation of the platysma, 102. Deep petrosal nerve, small, 291, 388. large, 387. Deep cervical artery, 66, 166. Dental artery, anterior, 392. infei'ior, 251. posterior, 252. superior, 391. nerve, anterior superior, 391. inferior, 261. middle superior, 391. posterior, 252, 419. superior, 390. Dentate ligament, 88. Depressor anguli oris, 210. labii inferioris, 212. ake nasi, 214. Descendens noni nerve, 150. Diaphragma sellae, 29. Digastric muscle, 148. nerve, 217, 261. Dilatator of the nose, 214. Dissections. of the auricle, 226. of the back, 41. of the carotid canal and superior maxillary nerve, 385. of the cervical plexus, 170. deep, of neck, 278. of the dura mater and blood sinuses, 13. of the eyelids, 230. of the face and parotid region, 191. of the facial nerve in the aque- duct of Fallopius, 420. of the larynx, 425. of Meckel's ganglion, 414. of the middle line of the neck, 140. of the mouth, 362. of the nasal cartilages, '239. to open spinal canal, 79- of the orbit, 315. of the otic ganglion and nasal fossae, 392. of the pharynx, 368. of the prevertebral region, 340. of the pterygo-maxillary region, 240. of the root of the neck, 155. of the scalp, 1. of the side of the neck, 98. of the sterno-clavicular joint, 152. of the structures in the middle cranial fossa, 305. of the submaxillary region, 264. of the temporal region, 264. of the triangles of the neck, 112. of the tongue, 459. of the vertebral and cranio- vertebral joints, 349.INDEX. 473 Ductus ad nasum, 237, 40S. Bartholini, 271. Ductus Riviniani, 271. Stenonis, 199. Whartonii, 270. Dura mater, 15, 26. of the cord, 84. nerves of, 258, 292, 297, 310. arteries of, 38. Ear external, 226. Eighth nerve, 286. Epiglottidean glands, 450. ligaments, 450. Epiglottis, 450 Erector spinee, 58. Ethmoidal arteries, 330. Eustachian tube, 385. Eye brows, 193. lids, 193, 230. muscles of, 230. nerves of, 234. vessels of, 234. Face, dissection of, 191. Facial artery, 184, 223. nerve, 216, 420. Falx cerebelli, 29. cerebri, 20. Fasciae. bucco-pharyngeal, 271. cervical, deep, 107. lumbar, 53. pretracheal, m. prevertebral, III. temporal, 241. Fifth nerve, 31, 307. Filum terminale, 90. First nerve, 30, 398, 411. Follicles, Meibomian, 194, 232. Fornix of conjunctiva, 195. Fourth nerve, 30, 311, 320. Frsenula labii, 365. Frsenum linguae, 367. Frontal artery, 10, 331. nerve, 319. vein, II. Fungiform papillae, 462. Galen, veins of, 24, 33. Ganglia, cervical, inferior, 301. middle, 301. superior, 299. of the glosso-pharyngeal, 289. of spinal nerves, 94. of the vagus, 192. Ganglion, Gasserian, 308. jugular, 289. lenticular, 328. Meckel's, 414. ophthalmic, 328. otic, 394. petrosal, 289. spheno-palatine, 414. submaxillary, 272. Genio-hyo-glossus, 274. hyoid muscle, 269. Gland, lachrymal, 235, 320. parotid, 197. sublingual, 270. submaxillary, 269. Glands, buccal, 365. concatenate, 118. labial, 365. laryngeal, 434- lingual, 464. Meibomian, 232. of Pacchioni, 17. pharyngeal, 376. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, 268, 287. Glottis, 431. Gustatory nerve, 262, 271.474 INDEX. Helicis major muscle, 229. minor muscle, 229. Helix, 226. Hyo-glossus muscle, 268. Hypoglossal nerve, 149, 273, 296. lio-costalis, 58. Incisor branch of nerve, 263. artery, 263. teeth, 366. Inferior maxillary nerve, 256. Infra-orbital artery, 392. nerves, 222, 389. vein, 392. trochlear nerve, 221, 235, 327. Interarticular cartilage of the jaw, 254- Intercarotic body, 179. Interclavicular ligament, 153. Interspinous muscles, 73. Intertransverse muscles, 73. Intervertebral ganglia, 94. Intra-spinal arteries, 81. veins, 82. Isthmus faucium, 363, 367. of the thyroid body, 189. Jacobson's nerve (tympanic nerve), 289. Jugular ganglion, 289. vein, anterior, 104. external, 103. internal, 284. posterior external, 104. Labial glands, 365. artery, inferior, 224. nerve (mental nerve), 222. Lacus lachrymalis, 194. Lachrymal artery, 234, 330. canals, 236. Lachrymal ducts, 235. gland, 235, 320. nerve, 235, 320. papillae, 194. punctum, 194. sac, 237. Laryngeal arteries, 449. nerve, external, 291, 434. internal, 447- recurrent, 448. superior, 291. pouch, 433. Laryngotomy, 145. Larynx, 425. aperture of, 378, 429. articulations, 449. cartilages of, 449. interior of, 427. ligaments, 449. muscles, 436. nerves, 446. ventricle, 433. vessels, 449. Lateral sinuses, 34. Lenticular ganglion, 328. Levator anguli oris, 211. glandulse thyroidese, 189. labii superioris, 210. alseque nasi, 210. inferioris, 25. menti, 212. palati, 382. palpebrse superioris, 312. Levatores costarum,' 74. Ligaments. accessory atlanto-axial, 359. alar or check, 361. atlanto-axial, anterior, 354. posterior, 354. capsular, 356. auricular, 22S.475 INDEX. Ligaments—continued. common, anterior, of vertebrae, 35*- common posterior, 351. check, 361. cruciform, 359. crico-thyroid, 453. interarticular, of the clavicle, *S3- of the jaw, 253. interclavicular, 153. interspinous, 353. intertransverse, 353. intervertebral, 350. lateral external of the jaw, 253- internal, 253. occipito-atlantal, anterior, 356. posterior, 356. occipito-axial, posterior, 358. odontoid (check), 361. pterygo-maxillary, 374. sterno-clavicular, 152. stylo-hyoid, 277. maxillary, 112. supraspinous, 353. suspensory of odontoid, 361. thyro-arytenoid, 444, 445. epiglottidean, 450. hyoid, 435. transverse of the atlas, 359. Ligamentum denticulatum, 88. nuchas, 65. subflavum, 352. Lingual artery, 183, 275. glands, 464. nerve, 262, 271. veins, 277. Lingualis muscles, 465, 466. Lips, 365. Lobulus auris, 226. ' Longissimus dorsi, 60. Longus colli muscle, 342.. . Lumbar aponeurosis, 53. Lymphatic duct right, 169. Masseter muscle, 243. Masseteric artery, 251. nerve, 258. Maxillary artery, internal, 249. nerve, inferior, 256. superior, 389. vein, internal, 252. Meatuses of the nose, 406. Meckel's ganglion, 414. Meibomian follicles, 232. Membranes of the brain, 15. of spinal cord, 83. • Meningeal artery, anterior, 39, 331. middle, 38, 256, 3H- posterior, 39. small, 39, 256, 314- nerves, 258, 292, 297, 310. Molar teeth, 366. Motor oculi nerve, 311, 334. Mouth, cavity of, 362. Midler's fluid, 25. Multifidus spina? muscle, 72. Muscles. anti-tragicus, 229. arytenoideus, 439. attollens aurem, 5- attrahens aurem, 6. azygos uvulee, 381. buccinator, 212. cervicalis ascendens, 59- chondro-glossus, 465. ciliaris, 205. circumflexus palati, 382. complexus, 63. compressor naris, 213. constrictor inferior, 371.INDEX. 476 Muscles—continued. medius, 373. superior, 373. corrugator, supercilii, 206. crico-arytenoideus lateralis, 440. posticus, 438. thyroideus, 436. depressor anguli oris, 210. depressor labii inferioris, 212. alee nasi, 214. digastricus, 148. dilatator naris, 214. erector spinas, 58. genio-hyo-glossus, 274. hyoideus, 269. helicis major, 229. minor, 229. hyo-glossus, 268. ilio-costalis, 58. interspinales, 73. intertransversales, 73, 346. levator anguli oris, 211. scapulae, 5°- glandulse thyroideae, 189. labii superioris, 210. alas nasi, 210. menti, 212. palati, 382. palpebral, 234, 321. levatores costarum, 74. linguales, 465, 466. longus colli, 342. massetericus; 243. multifidus spinse, 72. mylo-hyoideus, 265. obliquus auriculae, 229. capitis inferior, 78. superior, 78. oculi inferior, 335. superior, 323. occipito-frontalis, 3. M uscles—continued. omo-hyoideus, 51, 146. orbicularis oris, 207. palpebrarum, 205. palato-glossus, 380. pharyngeus, 381. platysma myoides, 101. pterygoideus externus, 248. internus, 248. pyramidalis nasi, 214. rectus capitis anticus major, 345. minor, 345. lateralis, 302. posticus major, 78. minor, 78. oculi externus, 332. inferior, 332. internus, 332. superior, 323. retrahens aurem, 6. risorius, 209. rotatores spinas, 73- sacro-lumbalis, 58. salpingo-pharyngeus, 381. scalenus anticus, 157. medius, 158. posticus, 158. semi-spinalis colli, 72. dorsi, 72. serratus posticus inferior, 53. superior, 52. splenius capitis, 57. colli, 57. sterno-cleido-mastoideus, 112. hyoideus, 147. thyroideus, 147. stylo-glossus, 268. hyoideus, 148. pharyngeus, 279. temporalis, 245. tensor palati, 382.INDEX. 477 Muscles—continued. tensor tarsi, 237. thyro-arytenoideus, 441. hyoideus, 148. trachelo-mastoideus, 60. tragicus, 229. transversalis cervicis, 60. transversus auriculae, 229. linguae, 466. zygomaticus major, 209. minor, 211. Mylo-hyoid artery, 251. muscle, 265. nerve, 261. Nares, 377, 402. Nasal artery, 331. artery, lateral, 225. cartilages, 239. duct, 237, 408. fossae, 400. nerve, 326. Naso-palatine nerve, 399. artery, 399. Neck, anterior triangle of, 128. posterior, 113. Nerves. of Jacobson (tympanic), 289. to the levator anguli scapulae, 117, 173- pterygoid, internal, 258. scaleni, 126, 173. stylo-pharyngeus, 288. subclavius, 127. tensor palati, 384, 395. tympani, 395. abducent, 31, 311, 334. accessorius spinalis, 49, 117, 138, 295. acromiales cutanei, 107. auditorius, 31, 425. auricularis magnus, 46, 197. Nerves —continued. auricularis pneumogastricus,29i. posterior, 9, 217. auriculo-temporalis, 9, 260. buccalis, 222, 259. cardiacus inferior, 302. cardiacus medius, 301. cardiaci pneumogastrici, 295. cardiacus superior, 300. cervicalesnervi facialis, 107,220. rami anteriores, 123, 170. posteriores, 67. cervicalis superficialis, 106. cervico-facialis, 219. chorda tympani, 424. ciliares ganglii ophthalmici, 329. ciliaris nasalis, 327. claviculares cutanei, 107. coccygeal, ramus posterior, 76. dentalis posterior, superior, 390. anterior, superior, 391. middle, superior, 391. inferior, 261. descendens noni, 150. dorsales, rami posteriores, 69. facialis, 216. frontalis, 319. glosso-pharyngeus, 287. gastatorius, 262, 271. hypoglossus, 149, 273, 296. incisorius, 263. infra-maxillares faciales, 107, 220. infra-orbitalesnervifacialis,2l9. infra-orbitalis, 222, 389. infra-trochlearis, 221, 327. labialis (mental), 222. lachrymalis, 221, 320. laryngeus externus, 291. inferior, 291, 448. internus, 447.478 INDEX. Nerves—continued. laryngeus superior, 291. lumbales, rami posteriores, 70. malares nervi facialis, 218. massetericus, 245, 258. maxillaris inferior, 256. superior, 389. meningei, 258, 292, 297, 310. molles, 300, 302. motor oculi, 311, 334. mylo-hyoideus, 261. nasalis, 326. naso-palatinus, 399. occipitalis, major, 10, 44. minor, 10, 46. olfactorii, 30, 398, 411. ophthalmicus, 310. opticus, 325. orbitalis, 339. palatinus magnus, 416. external, 416. minor, 416. palpebrales, 235. petrosus superficialis externus, 314- magnus, 313. parvus, 314. pharyngei, 288, 296. pharyngeus, 293. phrenicus, 174. pneumo-gastricus, 291. portio dura, 216. mollis, 31, 425- pterygoideus externus, 260. internus, 258. sacrales, rami posteriores, 75. spheno-palatini, 390. stylo-hyoideus, 217. suboccipitalis, ramus anterior, 3°3- posterior, 78. N ER ves—continued. supra-maxillares nervi facialis, 220. supra-orbitalis, 8, 319. supra-scapularis; 127. supra-trochlearis, 7, 319. sympathetica cervicis, 298. temporales nervi facialis, 8, 218. profundi, 256, 260. temporo-facialis, 217. malarisj 339. trigeminus, 307. trochlearis, 30, 311, 320. tympanicus, 289. Vidianus, 419. Ninth nerve, 32, 149, 273, 296. Nose, cartilages, 239. cavity of, 400. meatuses of, 406. nerves and vessels of, 398,411. Obliquus capitis inferior muscle, 78. superior muscle, 78. oculi inferior, 335. superior, 323. Occipital artery, 61, 186. veins, 63. ' sinus, 34. ; Occipito-atlantal articulation, 353. ligaments, 356, 357. Occipito-axial ligament, 358. frontalis muscle, 3. Odontoid ligaments, 361. CEsophagus, 191. Oesophageal arteries, 164. Olfactory bulb, 30, 411. nerves, 30, 398, 411. region, 395, 410. Omo-hyoid muscle, 146. Ophthalmic artery, 329. ganglion, 328.479 INDEX. Ophthalmic nerve, 310. veins, 331. Optic nerve, 30, 325. Orbicularis oris, 207. palpebrarum, 205. Orbit, 315. muscles of, 321, 323, 332, 335- periosteum of, 317. vessels of, 329, 331. Orbital branch of nerve, 339. Otic ganglion, 263, 394. Palate (soft), 379. Palatine arteries, descending, 419. inferior, 185, 2S3, 383. nerve, external, 384, 416. large, 416. small, 384, 416. Palato-glossus, 380. Palato-pharyngeus, 381. Palpebral, 230. Palpebral arteries, 234. ligaments, 232. nerves, 235. . Papilla lachrymalis, 194. Papillae of the tongue, 461. Parotid gland, 197. arteries, 181, 203. Periosteum of the orbit, 317- Petrous ganglion, 289. sinus, inferior, 36, 37. superior, 36, 37. nerve, large, 313. small, 314. external, 314. Pharynx, 368. interior, 376. muscles of, 371. openings of, 377, 378. wall of, 370. Pharyngeal ascending artery, 282. tonsil, 377- nerves, 288, 293. plexus of veins, 371. of nerves, 296. Pharyngotomy, 145. Pia mater of the cord, 87. Pillars of the fauces, 368. Pinna, or auricle of the ear, 226. Pituitary body, 40. Platysma myoides, 101. Pleura, 170. Plexus, brachial, 123. carotid, 313, 387- cavernous, 313, 3§7- cervical, 170. posterior, 79. pharyngeal, of nerves, 296. of veins, 371. pterygoid of veins, 252. vertebral, 302, 348. Plica semilunaris, 195. Pneumo-gastric nerve, 291. Portio dura, 31, 216. , mollis, 31, 425- Posterior triangle of the neck, 113. Pouch, laryngeal, 433. Prevertebral fascia, ill. Pretracheal fascia, ill. Princeps cervicis artery, 63, 66. Profunda artery of the neck, 66, 166. Pterygoid arteries, 251. nerve, external, 260. internal, 258. plexus of veins, 252. Pterygoideus externus muscle, 248. internus muscle, 248. Pterygo-maxillary ligament, 374. region, 241. Pterygopalatine artery, 420. Puncta lachrymalia, 194. Pyramid of the thyroid body, 189.INDEX. 482 Trochlea, 324. Trochlear nerve, 30, 311, 320. . Turbinate bones, 405. Tympanic artery, 256. Vagus nerve, 291. Veins. angular, 11; 226. ascending cervical, 165. pharyngeal, 371. auricular, posterior, 202. deep cervical, 167. dorsi-spinal, 76. emissary, 36, 307. facial, 226. frontal, II. of Galen, 33. infraorbital, 3.92. intraspinal, 82. anterior, 82. posterior, 83. jugular, anterior, 104. external, 103. internal, 284. posterior external, 104. lingual, 277. maxillary, internal, 252. occipital, 63. ophthalmic, 331. pharyngeal, 371. Veins—continued. posterior spinal plexus of, 76. pterygoid plexus, 252. ranine, 277. spinal, 97. subclavian, 167. * supra-orbital, 11. scapular, 166. , temporal, superficial, 202. thyroid, inferior, 165, 190. middle, 177, 190. superior, 183, 190. transverse cervical, 166. vertebral, 349. Venous blood-sinuses, 32. Ventricles of the larynx. 433, Vertebral artery, 163, 348. plexus, 302, 348. vein, 349. Vestibule of nose, 404. of larynx, 429. Vidian artery, 419. nerve, 418. Vocal cords, 430. Wharton's duct, 270. Zygomaticus major muscle, 209. minor muscle, 211. A.ORIMER AND CLUES, PRINTERS, 3i ST. ANDREW SQUARE, EDINBURGH.