66 incision above described, and then to trace these back to the trunks. The remark applies also to the nerve which supplies the inner side of the little finger. Take care of deep or communicating branches of ulnar artery and ulnar nerve at upper part of hypo-thenar eminence. Some difficulty is often experienced in cleaning these branches as they dip down between the abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti a little below and to the outer side of the pisiform bone. The palmaris brevis being first reflected outwards upon the central part of the palmar fascia, separate, at the inner boundary of the hypo-thenar eminence, the two conjoined superficial muscles from the subjacent adductor,—beginning below, where the two superficial muscles are tendinous, and Avorking upwards. Thus get beneath the two superficial muscles. The interval between them will then be apparent superiorly, one muscle (the abductor) arising from the pisiform bone, and the other (the flexor brevis) arising from the unciform process of the unciform. The must les being well separated, the artery and nerve passing between them will be traced with- out difficulty. Trace radial nerve, and dorsal cutaneous branch of the ulnar, to the back of the hand, and fingers. Trace radial artery to the back of the wrist beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb. This is anticipating somewhat on the dissection of the back of the forearm, but for a good and justifiable reason. It is desirable that the smaller structures of the back of the hand be dissected early, as the soft parts, being thin in this region, dry very quickly. The dissector is recommended, however, if, through the part showing signs of drying, it becomes desirable to thus anticipate, to be careful about the termination of the posterior interosseous nerve, which is the structure most liable to be injured in this anticipated dissection. As the branches of the radial nerve cross the radial artery at the back of the wrist, the dissector will of course see the importance of cleaning the nerve before the artery. Kadial artery traced towards palm of hand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseus muscle, or abductor indicis. The dissection of the thenar & hypo-thenar eminences should