32 III. MUSCLES OF THE FACE. If a good view of the muscles of the face is to be obtained, these should be dissected at the very earliest opportunity, before their colour has faded aAvay. This practical!}' involves, however, the sacrifice of the facial nerve, unless the additional labour be accepted of seeking its principal branches separately, instead of dissecting them from the parent trunk. There is, of course, no difficulty in dissecting the facial artery and its branches at the same time as the muscles. As these muscles are usually very much neglected on account of their dissection being considered difficult, one hardly likes to press the work of cleaning them, especially with the above-mentioned additional difficulty, upon the dissector, who is just beginning the head & neck, and whose hand is supposed to be still untrained to the more minute kind of anatomical work. The reference to the muscles of the face is therefore placed here, at the earliest opportunity after the dissection of the facial nerve by the method recommended in the dissection guides. From the dissector's point of view, the four following strata of muscles of the face may be recognised with advantage :— (1.) Orbicularis palpebrarum, anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, pyra- midalis nasi; (2.) Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, levator proprius labii superioris, zygomaticus minor, zygomaticus major, risorius, depressor anguli oris ; (3.) Compressor nasi, levator anguli oris, buccinator, depressor labii inferioris ; (4.) Corrugator supercilii, tensor tarsi, depressor alse nasi, levator labii inferioris. The mouth and eyelids to be well and evenly distended with tow or cotton wool; the lips and free margin of the eyelids to be stitched together. In the above list we have first the orbicularis palpebrarum, with the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis and the pyrami- dalis nasi. This latter small muscle is generally a well-defined fascicle, highly coloured, and easily found on either side of the