cervical nerves, or the phrenic nerve, to the common origin. When once either nerve is found, no difficulty will be experienced in completing the dissection of the entire loop. The next thing to do is to clean the infra-hyoid muscles; otherwise these thin muscles will dry, and no longer be separable from one another.* The next thing is to carefully clean the stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of the digastric, and to lift them up from origin to insertion. Beneath these muscles pass the large arterial & venous trunks of the anterior triangle, the branches of the external carotid (except the superior thyroid), and the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth nerves; and, as with the sterno-mastoid, the cleaning and lifting up of these muscles affords the most material assistance in the cleaning of the structures beneath them. These structures are exceedingly numerous and delicate. None but a skilled dissector should attempt to get them out without having before him, if possible, a dissected part, or at least a good plate, and without having carefully studied the same. * It is not generally recommended that these muscles be dissected at this early stage ; but nowhere, perhaps, is delay so damaging to the prospects of the dissection, or so wasteful of the student's time & energies, as in the parts about here. The remark applies more particularly to the infra-hyoid muscles, the ansa hypoglossi, the crico-thyi\>id branch of the superior thyroid artery, the external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve, and the thyroid gland. These parts, early exposed by the removal of the platysma, and lying, as they do. quite superficially, when the sterno-mastoid is retracted, and in very loose cellular tissue, laminated, and without fat, strike one, particularly on the second or third morning of the dissection of the head & neck, by their brilliant and full-toned hues. They can then be turned out with more thao usual ease. But, if the dissection is delayed, as, for some unaccountable reason, it usually is, they soon dry up into an indistinct mass of faded and hardened muscle and blackened cellular tissue, in which nut only are the artery & nerves above named undis- coverable, but the muscles themselves are adherent to the subjacent thyroid gland. Few dissectors, it is believed, get a good view of the thyroid gland & its surroundings, important as the parts are in connection with tracheotomy, through leaving this part of the dissection to too late a period Below the thyroid gland, beneath the infra-hyoid muscles; and in front of the trachea, is a considerable mass of loose fatty tissue, which should a'so be removed early, with a view to exposing the inferior thyroid veins.