65 arteries & nerves are on the same level; on the fingers the nerves are superficial to the arteries; higher up in the palm the arteries are superficial to the nerves. The palmar fascia, whether in its central or its two lateral portions, is thin as compared with the plantar fascia, and conceals but incompletely either the superficial palmar arch & digital arteries, or the divisions of the median & ulnar nerves. The slips to the fingers are also farther apart than those to the toes, and proportionately longer, so that the digital arteries & nerves are subcutaneous in the full lower third of the palm. Clean the superficial palmar arch, taking care of the superftcialis voice branch of the radial artery. The dissector must now face a position which, in his first dissections, may somewhat try his patience. In dissecting the palm of the hand, as in dissecting the sole of the foot (and the remark applies also to the dorsum of the foot, and also, though less forcibly, to the dorsum of the hand), he must, if good work is to be done—i.e., if the deeper parts of the hand, forearm, & bend of the elbow are to be adequately dissected—dissect, in a way, the same thing ten times over. He must trace both the digital nerve & digital artery on either side of each digit at least as far as the middle of the second phalanx, and thoroughly lift both up; and he must open up the sheath of the flexor tendons down to the tip of each finger. If the digital arteries & nerves are not thoroughly got out and lifted up, the lumbricales cannot be reached efficiently; and if these, in their turn, are not thoroughly cleaned and lifted up, each with the corresponding deep flexor tendon, then the deep palmar arch cannot properly be reached,—unless, of course, the flexor tendons be cut—a procedure which would utterly spoil the part for subsequent study. Much may be done, however, to minimise the labour of this ten-fold dis- section. The digital nerves and arteries should be traced from the palm down the side of each finger, not by two lateral incisions, but by one median incision made straight down to the sheath of the flexor tendon, the flaps of skin & fascia being kept opened out on either side by hooks and clamps. The dense fascia which overlies each neuro-vascular bundle is thus avoided, and the nerve & artery have simply to be turned out of loose connective tissue; an additional advantage being that the tendons are half dissected by the time the nerves & arteries are turned out. It may be noticed that, as the considerable width of the web between the thumb & index somewhat increases the difficulty of finding the trunks to these digits in the web, it may be a saving of time, if the trunks are not quickly found in the web, to seek the terminal branches by the side of the digits by the median