88 Poupart's ligament.* Then let him follow out the several branches one by one to their termination. He will thus gain two advantages. (1.) He will identify the two cutaneous branches without having to look for them in the superficial fascia of the thigh: the middle cutaneous pierces the fascia, and generally the sartorius also, three or four inches below Poupart's ligament; the outer branch of the internal cutaneous pierces the fascia about the lower third of the thigh; the inner branch pierces the fascia a little above the inner side of the knee. (2.) By tracing the muscular branches into the corre- sponding muscles, he will be enabled afterwards to draw them aside, so as the more easily to get at the deeper structures. If the abdomen can be opened, both anterior crural and external cutaneous nerves can be found upon the psoas & iliacus, and then traced into the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament. Otherwise the external cutaneous nerve will have to be looked for in the usual way—i.e., as it pierces the fascia a little below & internal to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. * As the anterior crural nerve begins to give off branches very high up in the thigh, it is quite the tipper part of the nerve that the dissector should expose. If the limb is not suitable for the dissection of the parts concerned in femoral hernia, and if the dissector, having previously seen them, is willing to sacrifice also the small upper branches of the femoral artery & internal saphenous vein, and the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, there is a very rapid way of beginning the dissection, which brings the dissector at once on the deeper structures:—Find the upper part of the internal saphenous vein through the upper part of the vertical incision above described. This will lead you upon the upper part of the femoral vein, which, with the adjacent artery, clean and lift up from off the pectineus muscle, dividing all the superficial structures. This can be done without dividing any branch of the anterior crural nerve; the highest branch of the nerve which runs inwards crosses the artery at least two inches below Poupart's ligament. The upper-part of the anterior crural nerve, before it has given off any branch, will be found half an inch to the outer side of the artery. Now expose the whole length of the sartorius, and proceed to trace out the branches of the anterior crural nerve as above described. This procedure saves more than an hour in the dissection of the front of the thigh, but it should only be attempted by an experienced dissector.