TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. It is customary to take the triangles of the neck separately, the posterior triangle being usually dissected before the anterior one. This is of advantage to one who dissects the head and neck for the first time, and who necessarily dissects somewhat slowly; and the plan has been adhered to in the main text : the structures (especially the infra-hyoid muscles) will not require the same care to prevent them from drying before the dissection is completed. But it must be understood that, for the practised dissector, there is much saving of time in cleaning the two triangles together. The sterno-mastoid being well lifted up from origin to insertion, as explained in the foot-note on page 25, it is easy to see that the dissector will gain considerably in cleaning connectedly the whole of the omo-hyoid together with the other infra-hyoid muscles ; in tracing the transversalis humeri and the transversalis colli arteries simultaneously from their common trunk ; in taking in conjunction the internal jugular & subclavian veins ; in following out the whole of the spinal accessory nerve at one time ; &c. I. POSTERIOR TRIANGLE. The dissection may be divided into three stages, and is greatly facilitated by these being well distinguished one from the other. First stage.—The value of the dissection, when completed, wilt depend to a great extent on the amount of care bestoived upon this first stage. Clean whole of platysma. This is important; other- wise it will be difficult to find the several structures beneath it. The safest and most expeditious way of exposing the platysma is by an oblique incision along a line extending from about the middle of the lower jaw to the middle of the clavicle. One thus comes upon the thickest & most highly coloured part of the muscle, and the danger is least of cutting through it without noticing it. The plane of the muscle being reached, the usual transverse incisions along the clavicle and lower jaw may be made with safety, or, better still, these incisions may be made from within outwards as the skin is dissected up.