26 Third stage.—Clean the subclavian artery and vein, and the cords of the brachial plexus. II. ANTERIOR TRIANGLE. Read note on previous page referring to dissection of sterno-mastoid, and clean the muscle from top to bottom, as indicated. The superficial cervical nerve will have to be divided near the middle line, and reflected ;* the other superficial nerves and the external jugular vein should be left in situ. As soon as the sterno-mastoid has been dissected up, the first structures to be looked for beneath it will be the descendens and communicans hypoglossi nerves (ansa hypoglossi), with their branches to the infra-hyoid muscles. The ansa hypoglossi should first be looked for as it crosses the common carotid artery & internal jugular vein towards the lower third of the neck. Cleaning first the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid muscles, and then the omo-hyoid from inner to oviter border, and then tensing these muscles by drawing them downwards and inwards, not unfrequently tenses also the two nerves, thus bringing them into evidence. Should they not be seen, however, the structures should not be disturbed, as this might lead to the cutting of the nerves sought for, but either one or other of the following means of finding them should be adopted :— (a.) The descendens hypoglossi nerve should be looked for in either of the following situations, namely: (1) as it emerges, opposite the crico-thyroid membrane, from beneath the internal jugular vein or its superior thyroid branch; (2) as it arises, high up in the neck, from the posterior aspect of the hypoglossal nerve. Or else, (/>.) The origin of the communicans noni nerve from the second and third cervical nerves should be sought for by tracing up some of the superficial * The c rcumstance that the superficial cervical nerve must be divided near the middle line of the neck may, if there is a difficulty in finding the nerve — as in a fat subject, or when the external jugular vein has been missed—warrant its being looked for by dissecting up the platysma as a whole from the middle line outwards: the superficial cervical nerve is always quite apparent on the under surface of the muscular plane.