19 abductor indicis, and then between the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the flexor brevis.* 4. All superficial structures should be thoroughly cleaned from end to end, so as to be got well out of the way (not necessarily removed) before the deeper ones are taken. The dissector should dissect in broad even planes, or strata. The dissection should not be deepened over any small area, and left superficial all round. This rule should be more particularly observed in such parts as Scarpa's triangle, the triangles of the neck, the popliteal space, the bend of the elbow. * A step further is open, in a few cases, to the thoughtful dissector. Thus, previous to dissecting the pterygo-maxillary region, the inferior maxillary nerve may be traced from Avithin the cranium through the foramen ovale, and a probe passed through the foramen by the side of the nerve, the search for which will then be greatly facilitated in the later dissection. Similar cases present in the dissection of Meckel's & the otic ganglia. In connection with Rule 3, the bringing together of a few general remarks on the cleaning of the vasculo-nervous bundles, which would lose by being scattered, may not be out of place. Each element of a vasculo-nervous bundle should be separated from its fellows and cleaned all round. In complicated bundles, such as those found in the axilla, the popliteal space, the triangles of the neck, this is by no means an easy matter. But it will pay the dissector to take some trouble here ; by so doing he will often see important structures and relations, which would otherwise be paseed unnoticed. In cleaning a vasculo- nervous bundle, the dissector should endeavour to get his finger beneath the bundle, the part being flexed, if possible, so as to relax the bundle, which should then be well cleared posteriorly, and lifted up as a whole. It is surprising what help this affords. The more accessible elements should now be cleaned, and then drawn out of the way, so that the others may be got at in their turn. The sheath of the large nerve-trunks, such as the cords of the brachial plexus, whether in the posterior triangle of the neck or in the axilla, is extremely dense and laminated, and must be peeled off in successive strata before the trunk is really bared; the arrangements of the plexus cannot otherwise be made out.