ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 42 The fact is, the connective-tissue matrix of the pulmonary pleura has become simply thickened, otherwise its structure has not under- gone any marked change. From this one may be allowed to con- clude that the increase of fibrillar connective-tissue in the matrix of the pulmonary pleura stands perhaps in a genetic relation to those lymphoid corpuscles that are found to infiltrate the pleura in the earlier stages. (6) the hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the pulmonary pleura of guinea-pigs is, perhaps, the most characteristic feature. This hy- pertrophy consists in the bundles of unstriped muscles becoming- thicker, and being therefore situated nearer to one another. As the morbid process advances, the muscular meshwork, described in the First Section, may, over extensive areas, become transformed into an almost continuous muscular membrane, in which the original meshes have become reduced in number and size. This is well seen in horizontal sections through lungs, the superficial parts of which con- tain extensive pneumonic changes. Transverse sections through such parts show that the pleural muscles have become increased to such an extent that they form, in many parts, a continuous membrane, the thickness of which reaches that of three or four muscle-cells. In Fig. 2 I have represented a part of the pleural muscular coat in chronic inflammation (a), and in the normal condition (b). I need liardly say that Fig. a, i.e. that representing the morbid condition, is taken from a part where the muscular coat was relatively only slightly hypertrophied. The meaning of the hypertrophy of the pleural muscles in chronic diseases of the lung is very obvious. It is a well-known fact that obstacles Avhich prevent certain organs or parts of organs from carrying out their normal function, produce, when assuming a chronic character, hypertrophy of the muscular tissue of those organs, if the muscular tissue take an essential part in carrying out their function. Hypertrophy of the muscular wall of the heart, or of a part of the heart, hypertrophy of the muscles of arteries, hypertrophy of the intercostal muscles, of the sterno-cleido" mastoideus, &c., are well-known examples of hypertrophy of muscular tissue, caused by chronic obstacles in the organs of circulation and respiration. The nodular growths in the tissue of the lung of