75 GIANT-CELLS IN TUBERCLE. the latter by more or less numerous processes, as generally described by almost all authors except Hering—who maintains that this con- tinuity does not actually exist, but is only apparent—can be easily proved by making a teased preparation. In this way the giant cells, together with parts of the surrounding tissue, may be isolated, and the continuity of both can be established beyond doubt. And here I have arrived at a second point, with regard to which I must differ from Buhl's and Hering's description. It is with refe- rence to the structure of the retiform tissue, in which the giant cells are embedded. I have never seen that the retiform tissue surrounding the giant cell is true adenoid tissue—i.e. a delicate, almost uniform, and homo- geneous reticuKim, in the meshes of which are embedded, likewise almost uniform, lymphoid cells—as is asserted by Wagner and Buhl, and is figured by Hering in Fig. 2, Plate I. What I iind is either a network of elongated clumsy-looking nucleated cells, the substance of which is more or less longitudinally striated, or a network of fibrillar substance, containing here and there a nucleus, or finally intermediate stages between the two—viz. where the matrix in some parts of the tubercle is more like the one, in other parts more like the other, network. Thus I perfectly agree with Schuppel, who, while opposing Wagner's view, asserts that the retiform matrix has nothing in common with true adenoid or lymphatic tissue. Also, with reference to the changes and the fate of the giant cells, I endorse Schiippel's statements, viz. that their substance gives rise to nucleated cells which help to increase the retiform tissue, and also to ceUs which are more or less similar in appearance to lym- phoid corpuscles, and which lie in the meshes of the former. They appear to originate, in some instances, by endogenous ceU-formation. Commencing from the centre of the tubercle, the giant cell as well as the sm-rounding tissue having been converted into a dense fibrillar substance, or, without doing so previously, degenerates, becoming firm, hard, and finally assuming the appearance of a more or less debris-like mass. As has been stated by Buhl (see on a former page), the giant cells have been justly regarded as a very interesting and important