ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 34 It remains now to consider the relation of the interalveolar lymph-canalicular system to the alveolar cavities. Sikorsky main- tains that the lacunaa of the interalveolar lymph-canalicular system stand in direct communication with the alveolar cavities by means of fine canals, similar to those that are found in the alveolar walls. Euhl,'^ regards the alveolar cavities as lymphatic cavities which are lined by endothelium and stand in free communication with the interalveolar lymphatics. Now, that the alveolar cavities are lined by epithelium, and not by endothelium, i.e. by a continuation of the epithelium of the bronchi, and not by the continuation of a subepi- thelial endothelium, as Debove at first maintained, is a fact well known from embryological studies, which show that in the embryo the bronchi and their terminations {i.e. the alveoli) are both lined by epithelium derived from the hypoblast, forming the fore-gut. Secondly, although it may be conceded that pigment-particles pene- trate from the alveoli into the lymph-canalicular system, as in the experiments of Sikorsky, or, as is proved by Knauff'^'^ with regard to carbon particles, that they find their way from the alveoli into the lymphatics of the lung, it does not necessarily follow that the lymph- canalicular system is in free communication with the alveolar cavities. On the contrary, the case of the pseudostomata of the bronchi, as described in the last chapter, furnishes an analogy against this ; and, indeed, careful microscopic investigation proves that the very same condition (of pseudostomata) exists also in the walls of the alveoli. The connective-tissue cell-plates that lie in the alveolar septa and line, as we have seen, the interalveolar lymph-canalicidar system, are found actually penetrating into the alveolar cavities; they project between the flattened epithelial cells that line the alveolar cavities, in the same manner as has been shown for the bronchi and for the serous membranes. In this way an indirect communication is estab- lished between the alveolar cavities and the lymph-canalicular system. These canals may, therefore, be described in this situation also as pseudostomata ; and it will, I think, be admitted that under certain conditions these pseudostomatous canals may be distended so that even formed particles may find their way from the alveolar cavities into the lymph-canalicular system of the alveolar walls. In