ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. bronchi (of the lung of guinea-pig-). Those which are in relation with the smaller branches lie in the loose common connective-tissue, by which these tubes, as well as the blood-vessels are separated from the air-ceUs ; while those which lie near bronchi of sufficient size to be possessed of cartilages, are found to lie in a corresponding position outside of the fibrous layer in which the cartilages are embedded. In every instance I have found the adenoid masses occupying a position between the air-tube and the nearest artery, with the out- side of the adventitia of which the surface of the mass is usually, if not always, found in contact.' It is further to be noticed, that in injected lungs 'the masses were found to be vascular, minute capillaries, not only ramifying on their surface, but penetrating into their interior.' With regard to the relation of these masses to the lymphatics, B. Sanderson writes thus: ' I am unable to state any- thing from my own observations as to the relation of these bodies to the lymphatic system ; but inasmuch as they lie in the course of the absorbent vessels, I have no doubt that they are in direct relation with the lymph.' As has been stated above, they bear a definite relation to lymphatic vessels. In the normal as well as in the tuberculous lung of guinea-pigs I have satisfied myself as to the develop- ment and continuous growth of these lymphatic follicles in the wall of a peribronchial lymphatic, situated between the branch of the pulmonary artery and the bronchus itself. The wall of such a lymphathic vessel, composed only of a single layer of endothelial plates, becomes thickened so as to present the appearance of a cell- reticulum, which, as it grows, assumes more and more the character of lymphatic or adenoid tissue, and which is observed to be in direct connection with the endothelial wall of the lymphatic. Diuing its growth, the lymph-follicle, which chiefly extends toward the inner stratum of the bronchial wall, bulges in that portion of the wall of the lymphatic to which it belongs; so that, after the follicle has reached a certain size, its outer surface appears to be surrounded by a semilunar lymiih-si^ace or sinus, lined by endothelium (compare figs. 5 and 8). But in fact, this semilunar sinus owes its shape only to the bulging in of one of its walls by the growth of the lymphatic