ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 68 ' Also the cells (embedded in that matrix) are of different kinds. I distinguish—1. Cytoid bodies, situated chiefly in the peripheral connective-tissue zone. . . . They and their nuclei are smaller and brighter than those of blood and lymph corpuscles. ... 2. Large so-called giant cells (Langhanns), consisting of finely granular proto- plasm, provided with branched processes, and containing numerous nuclei grouped together in the centre. It is beyond doubt that the plenitude of the nuclei is due to division. The nuclei are spherical or ovoid, nearly of equal size—at any rate, larger than those of lymph-corpuscles—and conseqiiently also larger than the nuclei of the previously mentioned cytoid bodies. * The giant cells lie in the centre of the reticulum. Occasionally there is only a single one; or, if there are several, the one that lies in the very centre is the largest. It may be compared to the mother- cell of the tubercle. The more recent observers, when describing the characters of tubercle, have justly attached some importance to the presence of the giant cells; but Schiippel evidently overrates them in representing them to be a constant and, save expressing it, a specific feature. ... ' 3. Besides the cytoid bodies and giant cells, the tubercle con- tains cells of an epithelial character, which, to judge from their size and position, represent, as it were, the intermediary forms between the former two. Their protoplasm is bright, finely granular, and surrounded by a membrane. They contain one large nucleus, or several small nuclei, which resemble here those of the giant cell, there again those of the cytoid bodies. ' I do not doubt that they are of the same nature and origin as the giant cells. . . . ' The smaller giant cells are the largest cells of this kind. . . . They occupy the meshes of the reticulum around the giant cells ; they diminish in size the nearer they are to the peripheral connective- tissue zone (in the same way also the reticulum becomes denser), and appear to pass insensibly into the cytoid bodies in the same manner as they do into the giant cells on the other hand. ' As long as the tubercle grows, the nuclei of the giant cell con- tinue to multiply, and the number of cells around it increases.