51 DIFFERENT KINDS OF GRANULATIONS. Fox's papers, because I tbink tbey bave entered into tbe appear- ances of tbe lung in artificial tuberculosis of guinea-pigs more fully, and because tbey bave bad a mucb greater number of tbese oases under tbeir observation tban otber observers. Hering,-^ wbo, writing on tbe subject of artificial tuberculosis more recently, does not seem to bave been very successful in bis experiments, baving in fact obtained a disease more like cbronic pyemia tban wbat is called artificial tuberculosis, finds tbat ' the nodules of tbe lung are in all cases due merely to circumscribed foci of inflammation. Tbey were never seen to be similar to typical miliary tubercle, i.e. a structure wbicb takes its origin from con- nective-tissue, consists of small cells similar to white blood-corpuscles, and softens first in tbe centre.' With regard to my own researches on tbe process of artificial tuberculosis in the lung of guinea-pigs I have to state, first of all, that one may already, on superficial observation, distinguish two kinds of granulations in tbe lung of a guinea-pig tbat is considerably advanced in the process of artificial tuberculosis—say whose bron- chial glands have become already the seat of caseation. The one kind comprises nodules of a spherical, or ovoid, or conical, or irregular shape; the otber kind comprises granulations wbicb bave only ap- parently a nodular form, for on closer examination it is found tbat their true shape is that of a cord, and only in real or optical trans- verse section simulate tbe appearance of a nodule. All these struc- tures have the common character that in their early state, i.e. as long as they are small—from a pin's head to twice and three times as large—tbey present a more or less transparent or semi-transparent appearance. As the process of tuberculosis advances, and the gra- nulations increase in size, it is found tbat only in some of them the centre undergoes caseation, i.e. becomes opaque, whereas in others there is notliing of this to be seen on naked-eye inspection. As a general rule, tbe granulations on and near the surface of tbe lung are those that show first the necrotic change of tbeir centre, which change spreads in the same manner as the granulations increase; this has been mentioned already previously. Tbe necrotic B 2