ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. artificial tuberculosis the peribronchial lymph-follicles become hyper- plastic ; but I must differ from the assertions of the first author materially, by maintaining that this hyperplasia does not form the first change in the process of artificial tuberculosis, nor is it the in- ducing cause of the development of those semi-transparent nodules which, according to this observer, represent blocks of lobular pneu- monia. For I am confident that in the earlier stages of the disease such a hyperplasia cannot be made out, although other marked changes can be stated already ; and what is still more, according to my experience, the process of artificial tuberculosis may have made considerable progress before a marked hyperplasia of the lymph- follicles can be confidently asserted; at any rate there may exist already by that time numbers of those semi-transparent nodules which, as we shall see hereafter, have the character of lobular pneu- monia. In lungs in which the process of artificial tuberculosis has made such progress that extensive parts of the lung have become con- solidated, it is found that in middle-sized bronchi, say those that still possess cartilage, the lymph-follicles have become increased in size and number to a considerable extent'; there may be found, in a longitudinal section through such a bronchus, several large follicles at one spot; they are sometimes seen to become confluent. This is especially easily recognised on the smaller bronchioles, where masses of adenoid tissue may start at several distinct points, and as they increase in size, gradually approach each other and finally become confluent. In transverse sections through such bronchioles these latter are seen to be almost completely ensheathed in adenoid tissue. I have never seen the peribronchial lymph-follicles undergoing the cheesy transformation, perhaps because I have not seen ani- mals sufficiently advanced in the morbid process. I am, however— from certain reasons to be stated hereafter—disinclined to think it probable that the peribronchial lymph-follicles undergo spontaneously such a change. (h) The granulations of the second kind—viz. the cordlike struc- tures—are, as has been already stated, likewise of a semi-transparent appearance. On microscopical inspection they may be confused very