ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, smaller branches of the pulmonary artery than to those of the pul- monary vein. In later cases the perivascular cords extend also on the middle-sized branches and now pretty equally on those of the pulmonary artery as well as of the pulmonary vein. By this time it is not unfrequently found that a perivascular cord shows at one or more points of its course a smaller or larger spherical or oblong enlargement. In advanced cases the perivascular cords extend so far up the larger branches of the pulmonary vessels that they reach the point where the latter join the bronchi; here the perivascular cords come in contact with the peribronchial granulations, with which they even blend to a greater or smaller extent. All the perivascular cords show a uniform structure, being com- posed of adenoid tissue, or at all events of a tissue that resembles it in almost all the principal parts, viz. the matrix is composed of fibres, including here and there a nucleus, and forming a network, in the meshes of whicli are situated lymphoid corpuscles. In ordi- nary sections of hardened specimens they have the same appearance as other lymphatic tissues, viz. as if they are made up almost entirely of nuclei; on closer inspection it can, however, easily be ascertained that the nuclei belong to lymphoid cells, and that these are held together by a fine reticulum of fibres. At an early stage of this inquiry I have been of opinion that the perivascular cords are, like the peribronchial lymph-follicles, provided with their own capillary blood-vessels, originating from the vessel to which the cord belongs. I have, however, on more careful examination become uncertain about this being really the case. There is no doubt that in advanced cases in some places the perivascular cords and their nodular outgrowths possess capillary vessels in their peripheral parts; but whether these vessels are merely the residues of the vascular system of those parts of the healthy lung into which the perivascular cords have extended in the course of their growth or not, is difficult to decide. At any rate there is a difference between the perivascular cords and the peribronchial lymph-follicles in respect of the blood-vessels; for the latter possess, as has been stated previously, their distinct system of blood-vessels (see Figs. 8 and 1^.