18 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. and stained with silver, tliese intermuscular spaces were seen in many places to be covered only by a very tliin film on which the surface endothelium rested. Distinct holes could be detected between the surface endothelium just above the intermuscular spaces, and these holes led through short canals into the spaces themselves. I have been much more successful in the examination of the lungs of guinea- pigs suffering from artificial tuberculosis; in these cases horizontal sections of a lung that had been moderately distended and then stained with nitrate of silver, showed the stomata of the surface lead- ing into the intermuscular lymph-spaces quite satisfactorily. Troisier " has recently published a paper on pulmonary lymphangitis, in which he also maintains the existence of stomata on the surface of the lung. (The existence of these stomata was first pointed out in my prelimi- nary notice in the 'Proceedings of the Eoyal Society,' January 1874.) Having described all that refers to the lymphatics of the pulmo- nary pleura, we are able now to give a brief sketch of the process of absorption by these lymphatics as it necessarily follows from their anatomical relations. It is quite clear that the respiratory movement of the lung is a factor that plays the jnost important part in this process. When the lung expands, as during inspiration, it will necessarily have the effect that the stomata of the sm-face are opened widely, and that the intermuscular lymph-spaces of the lung of the guinea-pig, as well as the proper lymphatic vessels of the pulmonary pleura, become distended. Under these conditions the lymphatic system wiU become filled with material that happens to be in the pleural cavity, and that is able to pass tlirough the stomata. During expiration, on the other hand, the stomata as well as the lymphatic spaces and proper lymphatic vessels will become compressed, so that their contents will be discharged into the efferent trunks. In guinea- pigs the action of the respiratory movement of the lung is greatly supported by the pleural muscular coat. Likewise it is clear that during inspiration those lymphatic branches also will become dis- tended that originate in the septa of the superficial alveoli of the lung, and discharge themselves, as has been mentioned, into the network of the sub-pleural lymphatics. During expiration, again, they will become compressed. Further branches, that have been described