48 ANATOMY OF THE LYJMPHATIC SYSTEM. surrounds it. When the nodules are small the whole sub-pleural surface is convex, but in the larger nodules the centre of the patch is somewhat depressed, so that the margin forms an irregular annular prominence. . . . ' The colour of the nodules is sometimes pale grey, but much more frequently it is steel-grey or slate-coloured, especially towards its margin; and on section it exhibits a similar colour. The smaller nodules have the semi-transparent appearance which is recognised as a characteristic of miliary tubercle. In the larger ones the translu- cency is confined to the external parts, the centre being opaque and of softer consistence than the rest. . . . 'Although . , . the greater number are superficial, there are many which occupy central positions, and these . . . are invariably found in the neighbourhood of bronchi. ... ' The disease always originates in the form of minute granula- tions, each of which ... is situated around or in the immediate neighbourhood of a minute bronchiole, usually a bronchiole of three or four thousandths of an inch in diameter. On more minute exami- nation, it is found to consist in the main of adenoid tissue, that is a tissue resembling the pulp of the cortical substance of a lymphatic gland. ... ' At first the new growth is confined to the immediate neighbour- hood of the bronchioles, from which it extends to the walls of the ad- joining air-cells; here it gives rise to a general thickening of the alveolar membrane, and consequent reduction of the capacity of each alveolus, and consolidation of the affected part. . . . 'Eventually the diseased part becomes completely consolidated. This is brou.ght about partly by the interstitial growth of cells in the substance of the alveolar walls, partly by the accumulation of epithe- lium in the alveolar cavity. Whether by compression of the ultimate bronchus, or for other reasons, the epithelium collects in the vesicles, already reduced in size by the parietal thickening, so as to fill them up. In this way . . . the diseased tissue is converted into a compact mass of cells, which, to the unpractised or careless observer, seem to have no special arrangement, and to be all of the same kind; if, however, they are more critically examined, it is soon seen that