ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 62 thus produce a considerable increase of thickness of the alveolar septa. Under those changes the ultimate capillary vessels distributed in tlie alveolar walls suffer to a greater or smaller extent. First of all there is to be observed an increase of the nuclei belonging to the wall of the capillary vessel, as had been already signalised by Dr. Wilson Fox, mentioned at the beginning of this section. But it does not stop there, for at some places capillary vessels are seen to be continuous with solid threads, containing nuclei completely resembling the jauclei of the capillary. These nucleated threads are of a slightly granular appearance, and are in continuation with the fibres of the tissue of the thickened alveolar septa. Besides the reasons just men- tioned, there are others which support the view that these nucleated threads are transformed capillary blood-vessels. They are the follow- ing : 1. A capillary vessel is occasionally seen whose lumen terminates almost abruptly as a cuneiform space, whereas its wall is directly pro- longed into a nucleated thread. 2. In preparations of Umgs that had been injected with cold solution of Berlin blue, the injection ma- terial is found not to stop altogether at those cuneiform endings of the capillary vessel, but to extend also on the solid threads; at least these are either stained distinctly blue, or they possess a row of blue granules. The question arises now, in what relation do the changes of the blood-vessels, described above, stand to the process of artificial tuber- culosis ? That the changes of the capillary blood-vessels, as occm-ring in the later stages, have only a secondary importance, being sub- sequent to the morbid changes of the alveolar septa, will, I think, be readily admitted on all sides. The question turns only on the 'changes described in the wall of the ultimate branches of the pul- monary artery, occurring in the earlier stages of the disease. The fact that such changes are found at a very early period, i.e. at a period when a limited amount of perivascular new-growth can be recognised ; and further, the fact that changes in the wall of minor branches of the pulmonary vessels are met simultaneously with the development of small masses of perivascular adenoid growth around the same vessels; these two facts, I think, tend to show that the changes in those vessels stand in an intimate relation to the de-