ANATOSIY OF THJ5 LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 56 beginning of this chapter, when speaking of certain clianges of the subpleural lymphatics. We have mentioned there, that in artificial tuberculosis of guinea-pigs certain nodular structures are found near the pleural surface of the lung, in connection with whose development lymphatic vessels are seen to change into cords of lymphatic or adenoid tissue. On the same occasion I have expressed it as probable that most of the lymphoid cells contained in the lymphatics are emigrated colourless blood-corpuscles, and I must maintain the same also for the perivascular lymphatic cords. I liave two reasons for this assertion: first, the endothelial lining of the lymphatics, in which the lymph-corpuscles are contained, does not show such marked changes as one would expect to find if the latter had origi- nated from that endothelium; thus it becomes very probable that they (the lymph-cells) have not developed in situ ; that they have been carried into the lymphatics from the surrounding tissue becomes probable if we bear in mind, secondly, that the alveolar septa of the adjacent parts—i.e. those parts in which lie the radicles supplying the perivascular lymphatics—are found invariably to contain similar lymphoid cells. Many of the blood-vessels become thus ensheathed in lymphatic tissue, which at first appears only as a collection of lymph-corpuscles within the perivascular lymphatics, and afterwards possesses a stroma consisting of a network of fine fibres which, as has been said above, are in connection with the original endothelium of the lymphatics. Perivascular lymj)hatic tissue may, however, originate also in another way. We have previously mentioned: first, that collections of lymph-corpuscles are found not only within the perivascular lymph- atics, but also in the adjacent tissue outside them; and, secondly, that the fibres growing in connection with tlie endothelium of the peri- A^ascular lymphatics extend also into the surrounding tissue. By this means a perivascular cord encroaches on the surrounding tissue, i.e. grows in thickness. In the same manner an existing perivascular cord may become provided with irregular or spherical swellings. A careful examination of the lung of the earlier stages of the process (four to six weeks) shows many appearances illustrating these points. Now, the second way in which perivascular adenoid tissue makes