ANATOMY OF THE LYMPUATIG SYSTEM. 14 the former being shorter and more rhombic than that of the latter. (Compare the First Part of this work.) The branches just now under consideration are of two kinds: (1) branches that originate in the tissue forming the septa of the alveoli of the superficial parts of the lung; (2) branches that form the anastomosis between the lymphatics of the pleural network and those of the lung proper, which, as will be shown fully afterwards, accompany the branches of the pulmonary blood-vessels. These anastomosing branches have been already recog- nised by Wywodzoff; Sikorsky does not seem to have seen these vessels. The superficial lymphatics of the lung are situated beneath the proper pleural membrane, and it is therefore more correct to call them subpleural lymphatics. In addition to these there exist in the pleura of the lung of guinea-pigs spaces which, being lined by a distinct layer of endothelium, represent lymphatic lacunae or lymphatic spaces. These are the spaces that have been mentioned above as being enclosed between the bundles of the pleural muscular coat. From observations made on lungs of guinea-pigs suffering from chronic pysemia (induced by the injection of putrid pus into the pleural cavity), or from artificial tuberculosis (the lymphatics in these cases having been injected with Berlin blue), and from the examina- tion of lungs of guinea-pigs suffering also from artificial tuberculosis (in which cases the surface of the moderately distended lung had been stained with nitrate of silver after pencilling off the endothelium of the pulmonary pleura), I have collected sufficient proof to assert that the intermuscular lymph-spaces are in direct communication with the subpleural network of lymphatics. There remains now to be discussed another very important point, viz. the question whether a free communication exists between the pleural cavity and the lymphatics that we have been describing hitherto ; that is to say, whether there exist stomata on the surface of the pidmonary pleura. Before entering on this question I will avail myself of the opportunity to bring before the reader the question of stomata of the serous membranes in general once more, especially as their existence has been doubted by some recent observers. As I have pointed out in the First Part of this work (see I. Serous