64 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. be only loosely attached to the alveolar wall. Speaking roughly, they may be distinguished as three different kinds of cells: first, we find, besides very scarce lymphoid bodies, recognisable by their small bright nucleus, epithelial cells which differ from the normal elements merely by being somewhat enlarged, distinctly granular, and contain- ing occasionally a constricted nucleus, or even two nuclei, like the cells at d; secondly, epithelial cells considerably enlarged, more or less irregular in shape, and containing always several nuclei, which generally lie more or less near the central part of the cell; and thirdly, masses of granular protoplasm of considerable dimensions and irregular in shape, containing numerous nuclei irregularly dis- tributed through the cell-substance—i.e. giant cells, as at e. A careful examination leaves no doubt that all these elements are of an epithelial nature; for not only are their nuclei so characteristic that already by that alone they maybe distinguished from the lymphoid elements in the walls of the alveoli, but chiefly the presence of the numerous intermediate forms enable us, as it were, to trace the one category into the other. It is not unusual for many of these cells to contain minute black particles, which, as has been pointed out by Knauff in his very able paper, are merely carbon particles. The most interesting features are, no doubt, the multinuclear giant cells. Some of these are seen to extend over a considerable distance, and to fade away at one or the other point of their outline into a very transparent film. Their nuclei (12 to 20 and more) are rela- tively small; many of them contain two nucleoli, and are hour-glass or kidney-shaped or otherwise constricted, thus showing distinct signs of division. The important question arises now, how do these giant cells originate? That multinuclear protoplasmic masses originate by the excessive growth of one of those epithelial cells, containing several nuclei, can be taken as very probable from the fact that one finds transitional elements from the one to the other. But also another mode of the formation of these giant cells must be admitted, and that is by the fusion of several epithelial ceUs. I am inclined to think that the largest giant cells originate in this manner; for almost all of them show in one or the other portion of, or all through, their substance more or less distinct markings, i.e. outlines