MORBID STEUCTURES IN THE SUPERFICIAL PARTS OF THE LUNG. 45 and nodules, formed within lymphatic vessels of the serous membranes under normal and pathological conditions, have been described as cn.(Zo^?/mp/icm(/i«Z follicular structures. In Fig. 7 I have represented lymphatic branches of the subpleural flexus filled with lymph-cor- puscles and in connection with interalveolar rootlets, in some of which the conversion into cords of adenoid tissue may be noticed. The meshes contained in the plexus of trabcculse, which form the bases of those nodular or patch-like growths, are evidently the alveolar cavities; each of these contains, in the earlier stages, cells which from their appearance may be confidently assumed to be changed epithelial cells lining the alveolar cavities; for not only do they possess a nucleus perfectly resembling that of an epithelial cell, but their arrangement, size, and shape makes them quite different from everything else. In later stages some of these cavities are filled with cells very much resembling lymphoid cells. Nodular growths, similar to those described just now, are found in great numbers and of different sizes in the superficial parts of the lung of guinea-pigs suffering from artificial tuberculosis. The more advanced this morbid process is, the greater their number and the larger they are. At first they appear to the naked eye as roimded grey transparent nodules; later on, as they increase in size, they become of a more irregular shape, and at the same time their centre becomes opaque, being in fact converted into a cheesy necrotic material. As the nodule grows still larger, the central caseation extends in all directions towards the circumference, as may be seen in sections cut both horizontally and transversely. Thus, nodules and patches may be foimd of different degrees as regards the relation between the outer progressive zone and the central caseous part. As long as these nodules are in a progressive state, they cause a slight elevation of the general surface of the pulmonary pleura, whereas this latter becomes more depressed during the process of caseation. At the same time it may be observed that the thickening of the con- nective-tissue matrix, as well as that of the muscular coat of the pleura, is the greater the more the process of caseation advances. Changes in the lymphatics of the pulmonary pleura have been more recently noticed also by Deboveand Charcot in carcinomatous