PEEIVASCULAR LYMPHATICS. 31 thick muscular coat composed of distinct bundles, while not far from this the bundles are small and widely separated from each other, so tliat the intima is in direct contact with the adventitia. This relation is best seen in animals suffering from artificial tuberculosis or from chronic pyaemia. Here not only the discontinuity between the mus- cular bundles, but also the excessive development of some of the bundles, is very marked. (Compare Figs. 14 and 16.) By the side of the arterial branches are found lymphatic vessels, Avhich have no valves, and whose wall is composed, as seen in silver preparations, of sinuous endothelium, such as is found in capillary lymphatics. With regard to the number of such lymphatics accompanying the smaller arterial branches, there exists great variety. In most places where one has an opportunity of seeing them, they are single ; in some, however, they are also found in couples, which may even anastomose with each other by a lateral branch and in still other cases I found instead of true lymphatic tubes a system of lymphatic spaces aromid the blood-vessel. In both cases the lymphatic is seen at some places to sm'round the blood-vessel in the manner of an invaginating lymphatic, i.e. the blood-vessel appears to be situated with more or less of its circumfer- ence inside the lymphatic. Especially where the lymphatic is repre- sented by a system of spaces, the blood-vessel appears in some places to pass right through them. This relation is more commonly foimd with the branches of the pulmonary vein. With regard to the larger venous branches, there is very little to be said different from what has been already stated for those of the arterial system. Around them there are found, just as around the arteries, true lymphatic vessels as well as lymphatic spaces. But aroimd the smaller branches a true lymphatic vessel is not a common occmTence ; in most places only lymphatic spaces are found surrounding the blood-vessel. It is a matter of some difficulty to demonstrate the perivascular lymphatics of the smaller branches of the pulmonary artery and vein. Ordinary preparations, i.e. sections of hardened injected or non-in- jected lung, show hardly anything of them. The conclusions I have drawn in the foregoing were arrived at from the examination chiefly of lung of guinea-pigs suffering slightly from artificial tubercu-