12 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. placing a ligature round the former. By means of a Pravaz syringe or a simple glass tube drawn out into a fine canula and bent at a right angle near its point, the Berlin blue is injected, after piercing one of the large lymphatic trunks with the fine canula of the Pravaz syringe or with the fine glass cannula. If the latter is used it is filled with the fluid after having been connected with an india-rubber tube. The injection, i.e. the discharge of the fluid, is then effected by the mouth of the operator or with a syringe. Although as a rule the whole network of lymphatics does not become injected by the latter mode, still some portions of it will become well filled. In the same manner nitrate of silver solution may be injected. I have seen once the network of pleural lymphatics beautifully distended with air in a dog that had been kept for more than half an hour under vigorous artificial respiration. In this case most probably some alveoli had been ruptured, and air had escaped into the interalveolar lymph- atics that lead into the lymphatic trunks of the pleura. I have found these lymphatics very marked in the fresh lung of children that died in consequence of acute miliary tuberculosis; in many places they could be distinguished as more or less transparent tubes, which, as the microscopical examination proved, were filled with lymph and contained also in some parts lymphoid cells. In some instances I have seen them also in the fresh lung of guinea-pigs that died of chronic pysemia, brought on by injecting putrid pus into the pleural cavity. The lymphatics were discernible as opaque streaks, owing to their being filled with lymph- corpuscles. To inject the pleural lymphatics of the lung of guinea-pigs in the same manner as those of dogs is a very difficult task. I have, how- ever, succeeded in some instances in injecting the pleural lymphatics as well as those of the lung proper of guinea-pigs, by injecting Briicke's Berlin blue into the pulmonary artery under so high a pressure that in many places the alveoli became ruptured. (The same may be effected by compressing the pulmonary veins for some time, and by ligaturing the bronchial trunk after the alveoli had been ruptured at certain points.) The rupture of alveoli can, of course, be recognised at once on simple inspection. In the case that is now referred to, the injecting fluid did not only escape into the air-passages,