ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 40 pig in wliich artificial tuberculosis had been produced by injecting a very minute quantity of septic or cheesy matter of a tuberculous lymphatic g-land into the pleural cavity. It is not the intention of this work to enter into a discussion of the etiology and the general anatomy of pya3mia and artificial tuber- culosis in these animals, and I will only refer the reader to the well-known memoirs on this subject by Dr. Sanderson in the Reports of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council. In artificial tuberculosis of guinea-pigs, brought on after in- fection through the pleural cavity, the costal and mediastinal pleura present very interesting appearances with regard to the endo- theHum of the surface. In many cases the pleura becomes covered with very numerous papilliform or villous processes, which, on micro- scopical examination, present all the characters of similar processes found on the omentum, mesentery, and parietal peritoneum, as de- scribed and figured in the First Part of this work. These villous processes are covered with germinating endothelium (see Fig. 10 in the First Part). In other cases the costal as well as the medi- astinal plem-a contains in its superficial parts, and projecting some- what over the general surface, numerous nedular growths, which have also been described in the case of the peritoneum as being covered with germinating endothelium. Somewhat different from this, however, we find the pulmonary pleura. This membrane shows in artificial tuberculosis, at most, groups of germinating endothelium on the surface. As may be expected, these groups are generally in close relation to the stomata of the surface. In artificial tuberculosis of long standing, provided the disease had been induced through the pleural cavity, the germination of the endothelium spreads over extensive areas. In these the endothelial cells are found to be larger, more columnar, and their nucleus in the act of division or already divided into two or three small nuclei. In b of Fig. 1 a group of such germinating endothelial cells is represented as viewed from the surface; the individual cells, being nearly columnar with rounded tops, appear, when viewed from above, as if separated by broad spaces. It may be noticed at the same time that each cell contains two or three