53 PERIBRONCHIAL GRANULATIONS. change—noticeable as an opaque centre in the semi-transparent structure; whereas the other kind of nodules, viz. the peribronchial ones and the cordlike granulations, do not undergo such a change. When discussing the microscopical characters and the mode of growth of these different granulations, we shall be able to state that such a change, if at all, may take place only in a very advanced period. To summarise what has been said: the granulations of a lung, which is so far advanced in the process of artificial tuberculosis that the bronchial glands have imdergone already necrotic changes, may be distinguished into three kinds; (a) nodules of a more or less well-defined outline, being in connection with the wall of a bron- chiole, (6) cordlike structures, and (c) nodular structures of a conical or irregular shape. Ail these three kinds of granulations are of the peculiar semi-transparent aspect; only the third kind undergoes a cheesy transformation, marked as an opacity in the centre. Two important questions present themselves : first, what is the structure and development of these granulations ? and secondly, what is their relation to one another with regard to the different stages of the morbid process ? (a) The spherical or oval nodular structm'es that we find in con- nection with the wall of the bronchial tubules are completely analo- gous to the lymphatic follicles found in the normal condition, and minutely described in Chapter IV. We have mentioned there that the adventitia of some of the bronchioles contains true lymph- atic follicles, either in the shape of well-defined spherical follicles provided with a special system of blood-vessels, or of cords of adenoid tissue; and that both are in intimate connection with the wall of one of the peribronchial lymphatic vessels; and further, it has been stated that in the normal condition there is a continuous growth and new development of such adenoid tissue in connection with those lymphatics. Now, with regard to the process of artificial tuberculosis, a simple comparison of a tuberculous with a normal lung shows that in the former the number and size of those peribronchial lymphatic follicles is far greater than in the latter, and this is the more so the farther the morbid process becomes advanced. I am, therefore, at one with Dr. Sanderson and Dr. Wilson Fox, in saying that in