71 ACUTE MILIARY TUBEECULOSIS. of man, contains a great number of very important microscopical observations, Hering remarks32 that 'in chronological respect the reticular tubercle (Wagner's Lymphadenoma) occupies the first place ; then follows the cellular tubercle, which under certain cir- cumstances becomes transformed into the fibrous tubercle.' With regard to the giant cells of the reticular tubercle, Hering doubts their connection with the cells of the reticulum, and believes they are not true cellular elements but^^ 'correspond most prob- ably to lymphatic vessels cut transversely. Their finely granular substance would then be identical with the contents of the vessel coagulated by the action of the reagent, used for hardening, and the cells (nuclei!) embedded in that substance are probably only the en- dotheUal cells of the vessel having become changed by germination.' Having quoted extensively from Buhl's work, I shall be saved from giving a separate description of certain appearances presented by miliary tubercles of the lung found in some cases of acute miliary tuberculosis. There are certain important points in which I venture to differ materially both from Buhl and Hering. Foremost is the assertion that in all cases of acute miliary tuberculosis, distingvushable as such in clinical and (rough) anatomical respect, the miliary tubercles are due to desquamative pneumonia (lobular catarrhal pneumonia). This proposition I can only accept as correct if it be put so as to mean that all cases of acute miliary tuberculosis have at the be- ginning the character of desquamative pneumonia; for not in all cases that die from acute miliary tuberculosis are the tubercles of the lung found to be due to pneumonia, but are seen to correspond in their structm-e to reticular giant-cell tubercle in different stages of development. Buhl's saying that the desquamative pneumonia representing the acute miliary tuberculosis differs from the genuine desquamative-pneumonia in the presence of giant cells among the germinating epithelium of the alveoli, does not apply to all cases, but corresponds only to a certain stage of development of the tubercles. I have had the opportunity of examining the lungs of seven chil-