60 ANATOMY OF THK LYMPHATIC SYSTE5I. have to add: first, there can be little doubt that Sanderson identified peribronchial and perivascular masses of adenoid tissue, otherwise I cannot account for the absence of the latter in his description ; and secondly, I doubt whether the hyperplasia of the peribronchial lymph-follicles is in the earlier stages of the disease sufficiently marked to be recognised. In a subsequent page we shall have opportunity to mention that the semi-transparent nodules which are due to catarrhal pneumonia depend on the spreading of the perivascular cords. If, as I think to be the case, Sanderson did not distinguish the perivascular cords from the peribronchial lymph-follicles, then both those statements become explicable, viz. the hyperplasia of peri- bronchial follicles being the first change, and the blocks of catarrhal pneumonia being dependent on the former; for, according to my observations, the appearance of the perivascular adenoid tissue forms the earliest symptom of the process of artificial tuberculosis. Not only do we find it relatively the more abundant the earlier the stage of the morbid process is in which the lung is examined, pro- vided, of course, that this latter possesses granulations already dis- cernible by the unaided eye; but in mosl of the tuberculous lungs I have examined the perivascular new-growth is in all stages by far the most predominant feature. The most important argument, however, I find in the fact that there are cases of artificial tuberculosis in guinea-pigs, (liver, omen- tum and spleen being chiefly affected) whose lungs contained miliary granulations, due only and exclusively to perivascular cords of adenoid tissue; the peribronchial lymph-follicles are developed only slightly in these cases, not more than in the normal condition; and further, I have seen a case of ' natural' tuberculosis in a guinea-pig, where the spleen and the liver, and likewise the lungs, but not to such an extent as the former organs, were penetrated by numerous very minute miliary granulations. The mesenteric glands were dis- tinctly, the liver, spleen, and lung only slightly, enlarged. In the lung the ' miliary granulations' were found to be due entirely to the presence of perivascular adenoid cords. Fig. 20 is taken from this lung.