PERIA^ASCULAR TUBEECULOUS CORDS. 55 easily with nodules, for they appear as such whenever they are seen both in optical or real transverse section. On microscopical examina- tion, however, their true shape can be ascertained easily, from their bearing always a definite relation to a blood-vessel, surrounding it like a sheath, as we shall see more minutely below. Hence it is quite clear that whenever such a cord is cut transversely, also the blood-vessel to which the cord belongs will be found to be cut transversely ; and likewise where such a cord is seen in real or optical longitudinal sec- tion, also its blood-vessel will be seen in its longitudinal axis, and vice versa. This definite relation to the vascular channels is naturally of great importance in determining whether in a given case we have before us a nodular or cordlike structure ; for, if we find a granula- tion which, under the microscope, presents the appearance of a more or less circular structm-e in connection with a blood-vessel cut trans- versely, then it is probable that we have to do merely with the transverse section of a cord ; whereas we shall judge it correctly to be a real nodule if we find it in connection with the longitudinal section (real or optical) of a blood-vessel. There are, however, real nodules found in connection with blood-vessels, some of the cords mentioned above possessing occasionally a lateral swelling of a nodular shape.* Now, what are the general characters of these cords with regard to their distribution, structure, and development ? Their principal character is, that they bear always a definite relation to the minor branches of the pulmonary artery or pulmonary vein, being situated, as it were, in the adventitia of these vessels. For the most part the vessel is seen to be completely ensheathed by the new-growth, or, as it happens occasionally, the new-growth extends chiefly along one side of the blood-vessel. The earlier the case is the more these perivascular cords are found to be limited only to the smaller branches of the pulmonary vessels; and it seems to me— though I am not quite certain on this point—limited rather to the * Some explanation is required for my using tlio term nodule for expressing a splierical- sliaped body, that of cord for one that is extending in length for some distance, and that of granulation for either. Tlie use of the latter term in the sense implied, although strictly not diflferent in its meaning from nodule, may be readily excused by bearing in mind that on macroscopical inspection all those structureB seem to bo of a similar fom.