DEVELOPMENT OF PEEIVASCULAR COEDS. 59 its appearance is the one based on tlie facts mentioned just now, viz. growth of a network of fibres between a collection of lymph-corpuscles lying outside a lymphatic vessel, as it were, in the wall of the latter. In Fig. 16a branch of the pulmonary artery is represented (the cha- racter of its muscular coat, mentioned in the first section, is well shown), in the adventitia of which several lymphatics are seen, some of them containing in their lumen a granular material, and in their wall a collection of adenoid tissue. With appearances similar to these we have become acquainted already in the First Section, in the case of the peribronchial lymph- follicles.. We may therefore regard this kind of perivascular adenoid tissue as perilymphangeal tissue in opposition to the perivascular cords of the first kind, which, as we have seen, originate as endo- lymphangeal structures. It is quite clear that the mode in which a perivascular cord be- comes developed can only be determined in the earlier stages; in those cases in which the lung has advanced considerably in the process of artificial tubercidosis, so that many of the branches of the pulmonary vessels have become surrounded by great masses of adenoid tissue, it is impossible to say in which of the two ways the latter have originated; all that one can say is that they are peri- vascular. I refer the reader to Fig. 22, taken from a lung that con- tained very large and numerous masses of adenoid tissue; they are either peribronchial nodules, as in the lower part of the figure ; or they are in connection with the wall of a perivascular lymphatic, as in the right part of the figure; or they are distinguishable simply as peri- vascular cords with nodular swellings. Besides, it must be borne in mind that a perivascular adenoid cord having originated as an endo lymphangeal structure may increase in size by encroaching on the sur- rounding tissue after the principle of the j^erilymphangeal structures. There is one more important point to be discussed with reference to the perivascular cords. According to Dr. Sanderson, tlie hyperplasia of the peribronchial lymph-follicles constitutes the first series of changes of the lung in artificial tuberculosis; subse- quent to, and caused by them, is the lobular pneumonia, to which the semi-transparent nodules owe their origin. To these statements I