PEEIBEOKCniAL LYMPHATICS. 21 from that part of the bronchial wall that is nearest to the circular muscular coat, and represents the proper sub-mucous tissue. In small bronchi which are devoid of cartilage, and the wall of which consists merely of epithelium, a thin mucous layer, a circular muscular coat, and a connective-tissue adventitia, the network of lymphatic vessels in the latter is also very distinct* It will be noticed as an important fact that most of the lymphatics are distributed in that portion of the wall of the bronchus which is next to the branch of the pulmonary artery, and which forms a part of what is also described as the bronchial adventitia. For the sake of greater clearness we propose to call these lymphatics that are situated in the adventitia the peHhronchial lymphatics. The network of peribronchial lymph- atics is composed of trunks that chiefly belong to the bronchus itself, i.e. they are supplied by the bronchial wall itself. Some of these vessels, however, represent merely the anastomosis of the former with the lymphatic vessels that run along with the larger blood- vessels. The latter we shall become acquainted with hereafter, as perivascular lymphatic vessels. 1 will refer the reader to fig. 18, in which the peribronchial lymphatics are seen to anastomose with perivascular ones. If we examine the smaller bronchi of the lung of guinea-pigs, especially of those that suffer from artificial tuberculosis, we meet with very marked structures situated in the wall of one of those peribronchial lymphatics that extend between the branch of the pulmonary artery and the contiguous portion of the bronchus. These structures are spherical, oblong, or even cordlike accumu- lations of adenoid tissue in the wall of a lymphatic, on the side that is looking towards the bronchus. They are met with in various numbers in different parts of the lung, and also of various sizes. Those amongst them that are of a considerable size are provided with a special network of capillary blood-vessels, as is represented in figs. 8 and 18. In this respect, and in their being composed of a reticulum of fine fibres with lymphoid corpuscles in its meshes, they perfectly resemble lymphatic follicles. They have been described by Burdon Sanderson in this way:—' Masses of cytogenic tissue of in-egular form are always to be found in the neighbourhood of the