8 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SY'STEM. the substance of eacli spindle-shaped muscle-fibre is composed of minute longitudinal fibrils, thus giving to the whole fibre the ap- pearance of fine longitudinal striation—an appearance which, as is known to histologists {see Arnold, in Strieker's ' Handbook'), is found on unstriped muscle-fibres in general. Fig. 3 gives an exact repre- sentation of the unstriped muscle-fibres of those pleural muscle- bundles. I said before that this network of delicate bundles or bands of unstriped muscle forms an additional and unique element in the pleura pulmonis of guinea-pigs. I must, however, add that I found also in the pleura of dog and cat isolated spindle-shaped cells with the characteristic stafif-shaped nucleus of unstriped muscle-fibres, as well as small bundles of the same. In the pleura of guinea-pigs the network of muscular bundles, as described above and represented in B of Fig. 2, forms a distinct coat, which is, as regards position, sub- serous, i.e. it is placed beneath the proper connective-tissue matrix of the pleura. Just as there is a difference between the endothelium of the free surface in the distended lung and in the collapsed lung, so there is also a difference to be noticed between the arrangement of the bundles of the plural muscular coat in the condition of ex- and inspiration. It is a matter of obvious necessity that the bundles of the muscular coat in question should be nearer together—that is to say, that the meshes between them should be narrower in the state of expiration than in that of inspiration. In the latter condition the bundles separate from each other widely, according to the greater expansion of the lung, or in other words according to the extent of surface over which they are distributed. Actual observation confirms this fully, for, in horizontal sections taken from the surface of a lung that had been hardened in the expanded condition, the bundles of the plem'al muscular coat are seen to be thin and so far apart from each other that there are left between them broad rhombic meshes; whereas, in similar sections of a collapsed lung, the bundles are seen to be thicker, the muscular fibres shorter, and the meshes between the bundles narrowed and elongated to such an extent that in some places the bundles seem rather to form a continuous membrane. From what has been said just now it is no doubt correct to assume that the