MATRIX OF PULMONARY PLEURA. 7 I must refer the reader to Fig. 4. It may be seen in this figaire that some of the spaces (probably all of them) are provided with canals, by means of which they communicate with each other. These interfascicular spaces contain each a flattened nucleated cell—a con- nective-tissue corpuscle. We shall return to these points again with, reference to the general arrangement of connective-tissue bundles and connective-tissue corpuscles when we come to deal with the connective tissue surrounding the larger branches of the pulmonary artery; at present I will be content with mentioning that these interfascicular spaces, containing the flattened connective-tissue corpuscles, corre- spond to the lymph-canalicular system of other serous membranes as mentioned in the First Part of this work. The pulmonary pleura is in intimate connection with the septa that separate groups of the superficial alveoli of the lung; it lies closely attached to the upper or external surface of the most super- ficial alveoli. In guinea-pigs the pleura possesses an element additional to those enumerated above, which stands in an important and intimate relation to the lung in pathological as well as in phy- siological respects. This additional element consists of bundles of unstriped muscle-fibres. If thin horizontal sections are made-of ' a normal lung, hardened in spirit, and these sections after being stained with hsematoxylin are examined \mder the microscope, there are seen beneath the endothelium, covering the free surface, slender bundles of unstriped muscle-fibres, arranged so as to form a network with long rhombic meshes. I was acquainted with all the facts relating to these bundles of unstriped muscle-fibres, from the study of horizontal and vertical sections through the superficial parts of the lung, before I tised hsematoxylin as a staining fluid; but when I used this latter reagent I soon became aware of its great superiority to carmine, and I found that I might have been saved a great deal of time and trouble had I used it earlier. For hgematoxylin brings ont these bundles of unstriped muscle-fibres very conspicuously indeed, the substance of the individual fibres, although but faintly coloured, being very well defined from the general matrix, and their nuclei being deeply and prominently stained. Examining a thin bundle of these fibres under a moderately high power, one soon recognises that