9 MUSCULAR COAT OF PLEURA. rouscsular bundles contract and extend simultaneously with the lung as a whole. That the pleural muscular coat acts consentaneously with the respiratory movement is rendered probable also by other circumstances. Firstly, the muscular bundles have in general a radiating direction from the apex towards the basis of the lung; secondly, if we examine this muscular coat with reference to its distri- bution over the different parts of the surface of the lung, we find the remarkable fact that it is developed best on those parts that participate prominently in the respiratory movement, whereas the muscular bundles are thin and scarce, or even wanting altogether on those parts that make only slight excursions during respiration. That is to say, they are to be found most abundant on the external surface, or that directed towards the anterior wall of the chest, and on the internal surface, or that directed towards the mediastinum; on the posterior surface the bundles are scanty, and become more so the nearer to the vertebral column. The pleural muscular coat is, however, not only of great import- ance for the respiratory movement of the lung, but it plays also an important part with regard to the lymphatic system of the organ. In the next chapter we shall see that the lymphatic vessels that are distributed on the surface of the lung, and that run through the ligaments of the lung towards the bronchial lymphatic glands, are in communication with the meshes of the pleural muscular coat; and further, that these are again in communication with the free surface, i.e. with the pleural cavity. Hence it will be clear that the action of the pleural muscular coat stands necessarily in a direct relation to the lymphatic absorption from the pleural cavity. In consequence of the muscular bundles during inspiration separating widely from each other, and the meshes between them becoming enlarged, it happens that the communication openings between the latter and t he free surface are also dilated. While doing this the meshes between the muscular bundles evidently will acquire a pumping action, and be enabled to fill themselves from the pleural cavity. During expira- tion, on the other hand, while the meshes themselves as well as their communications with the pleural cavity collapse, or rather become compressed, the contents of the former will be pressed into