STOMATA AMONG THE ENDOTHELIUM. 17 after some time to be contained in tlie cisterna. The septum is cut out and prepared for microscopical examination after staining it with solution of nitrate of silver. Many stomatous canals are then seen to contain blood corpuscles, which may be easily traced through those canals from one surface of the membrane to the other. In male frogs this experiment succeeds much better than in female, for in the former the endothelial cells lining the stomatous canals do not possess cilia, whereas many of them in female frogs are ciliated, especially during the winter months. (See p. 52, Part I. of this work.) With regard to the lymphatic vessels of the pulmonary pleura, I have very little doubt that they are in free communication with the pleural cavity, i.e. that there exist stomata amongst the endothelium of the free surface. The facts that lead me to this assertion are these :—a. In rabbits and rats that died a few days after the injec- tion of putrid pus into their pleural cavity, I have seen, attached to the surface of the pulmonary pleura, cords of coagulated fibrin (the pleural cavity containing an abundant fibrinous exudation, and nume- rous pus corpuscles, as well as in some places false membranes of lymph), which cords could be traced on microscopical examination through canals from the siu'face into lymphatic vessels of the pleura. h. In rabbits and guinea-pigs that were sufiering from chronic pyaemia in consequence of injecting putrid pus into their pleui-al cavity, I have been able to find germination of the endothelial cells over certain spots of the surface (see Fig. 1). It happened either that in the centre of these groups of germinating endothelial cells a distinct opening could be detected, or that lymphoid cells could be traced in a continuous row from the surface through those openings into the plural lymphatics. Similar observations I have described and illustrated in the first part with reference to the serous mem- branes, c. The same relations could be shown to exist on the pul- monary pleura of guinea-pigs that suffered from artificial tubercu- losis, d. But also in healthy guinea-pigs I have seen the free communication between the pleural cavity and the intermuscular lymphatic spaces referred to above. In a lung moderately distended 0