CHANGES OF THE PLEURAL MUSCLES. 43 g-uinea-pigs, which, as we have mentioned^ appear in the course of chronic pytemia and artificial tuberculosis, are evidently great obstacles to the act of respiration of the lung; and to find the pleural muscular coat hypertrophied is what we should expect, from know- ing that it is of importance for the respiratory movement of the lung. Besides this there exists also another reason why the mus- cular coat should become hypertrophied. We shall see presently that certain portions of the lymphatics of the pulmonary pleura undergo morbid changes, in chronic pleuritis that had been induced by infecting the animal through the pleural cavity. In the course of these changes the lymphatics are less permeable, becoming, in fact, filled with the products of chronic inflammation. Now, the pleural muscular coat being to a great extent of material service to the free diacharge of the lymphatics of the pleura (see First Section), it is im- portant that its action should increase, and that it should in conse- quence hypertrophy, if the discharging of the lymphatics become more difficult; and this is obviously the case when they become filled excessively with formed material. (c) In the First Section we have mentioned on several occasions that, in chronic pleuritis, the intermuscular lymphatic spaces of the plem-a of the lung of guinea-pigs, and some of the subpleural lym- phatic vessels, contain lymphoid cells. In some places these vessels are seen to be perfectly plugged up by such cells, and hence they resemble cords composed of lymphoid cells, the endothelial wall of the vessel ensheathing these cords being, however, still clearly dis- cernible. The question arises, where do these lymphoid cells originate ? There can be little doubt that the germination of the endothelium surrounding the stomata on the pulmonary pleura gradually extends to the endothelium of the lymphatics into which those stomata lead, and it is therefore quite possible that some of the lymphoid cells found in the lymphatics are direct products of that germination. Many of the lymphoid cells, however, are probably not of this origin, but are either pumped in from the exudation of the pleural cavity, or are absorbed from the tissue of the pleura itself; in both of which cases they are probably connected with the emigration of blood cor- puscles—the result of the general inflammatory condition, That