13 LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF PLEURA. but filled also the lymphatics of some portions of the lung substance. The lymphatics of the pleura were discernible under a lens as a net- ■work of tubes filled with the injection material. From injected blood-vessels this network could be distinguished with great ease by observing its course, its distribution, and the nearly equal diameter of its branches. Fiu-ther, the constrictions of the branches which, as we know, correspond to valves, served to distinguish them. Besides, the microscopical examination of horizontal sections made it quite clear that the network was a network of lymphatic vessels. With regard to the structure of these lymphatic vessels there is very little to be said. Their wall is composed of a single layer of elongated endothelial plates, just like that of other lymphatics. Their distribution has been already mentioned, and it remains only to add that some of the branches are provided with lateral blind saccular dilata- tions. In examining a horizontal section showing the lymphatics of the pleura, one must be very careful in determining the existence of these blind endings; for a trunk may often appear to end abruptly, which, on examining it with a higher power, can be seen to dip down in a vertical direction or to be continuous with a narrow canal that runs in the deeper parts of the lung, i.e. between the alveoli. There exist, however, true blind endings which, even on the closest exami- nation, are seen to be in no connection with lymphatics coming from the depth of the lung. With regard to the mode of distribution of pleural lymphatics, I refer the reader to Fig. 6. As has been correctly observed by both Wywodzofif and Sikorsky the pleural lymphatics discharge themselves into trunks that run in the ligamenta pulmonis towards the bronchial glands into which they enter. It has been stated already that there are branches springing from the deeper parts of the lung and entering finally the network of the lymphatics of the pleura. These branches are somewhat different from the branches of the general network. First of all they are de- cidedly narrower, then they have no valves, and thirdly their endo- thelial wall, when stained with nitrate of silver, is more like that of lymphatic capillaries than of lymphatic trunks, the endotlielium of