ORIGIN OF GIANT-CELLS IN TUBERCLE. 77 the semitransparent nodules that we described in the previous chapter as secondary nodules in the process of artificial tuberculosis of guinea-pigs is surely of some importance, bearing in mind that there exists a certain analogy between the tubercles of the lung in acute miliary tuberculosis of man and the semitransparent secondary nodules in the artificial tuberculosis of guinea-pigs, in both cases the changes being in an early stage due to disseminate catarrhal pneu- monia. Buhl speaks of the development of giant cells from alveolar epithelium (p. 107), and thinks this is in no way incompatible with the assiunption that they originate in general from a tissue belonging to the group of the connective-tissues. This I must, however, regard as an unsuccessful arbitration. Buhl, in his assumption that the alveolar cavities are lymphatic cavities, and therefore lined by endothelium, which is not belonging to the group of epithelium, strictly speaking, but to that of connective-tissues, is, as it appears from p. 5 of his work, guided by the experimental observations of Sikorsky, who, as had been mentioned in the First Section, found that carmine particles find their way from the alveolar cavity directly into the lymphatic radicals of the alveolar wall. This deduction of Buhl becomes at once imtenable, if it is remembered that the relation between the alveolar cavity and the lymphatics of the alveolar wall is precisely the same as that between the lumen of a bronchus and the lymphatic system of its wall. No one can say that the epithelium lining the mucous membrane of the bronchi is not epithelium in the strictest sense, in morphological as well as in genetical respect. I have ex- plained Sikorsky's experimental observations by the presence of pseudostomatous tissue in the wall of the alveoli, and in that of the bronchial epithelium (see Chapters IV. and V.). Buhl's conclusion has been supported to some extent by the assertion of Debove that the epithelial lining of the alveolar cavities is a continuation, not of the bronchial epithelium, but of a bronchial subepithelial endothe- lium. But since Debove himself has retracted ^ this assertion, it must naturally be left out altogether from the discussion. That the giant cells of the tubercle of the lung are true cells— generally of a spherical, oblong, or irregular shape— and that they