CHANGES IN mNUTE BLOOD-VESSELS. 61 In connection with the changes which give rise to the develop- ment of the perivascular adenoid tissue, we have to mention changes that take place in the blood-vessels tliemselves. One of the very early changes in the lung of tuberculous animals is germination of the endothelium of the ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery. The endothelial cells of smaller or larger areas are seen to be en- larged, their substance being granular, and their nucleus in the act of division or already divided into two small nuclei. The germination of the endothelium may, later on, be so extensive that the inner coat of the vessel becomes lined with several layers of cells which, •nearer towards the lumen, resemble young or lymphoid cells. I have seen small arterial branches in which the germination of the endo- thelium had reached such an extent, that of the lumen of the vessel only a very narrow canal was left, not broader than the diameter of a coloured blood-corpuscle ; just above this stenosis the vessel was considerably distended. In the larger branches of the pulmonary vessels also the other coats of the vessel undergo abnormal changes in a more advanced stage of the disease. These changes consist in the coats of the vessel —especially the middle coats—becoming very distinctly laminated, the individual laminae being separated from one another by clefts which contain the more numerous lymphoid cells the farther the diseased stage is advanced. In arteries possessed of a thick middle coat this condition is especially well seen. The lymphoid corpuscles can be seen to extend into the coats of the vessel from without i.e. from the perivascular cords. There is a priori no reason why this should not be due to an active growth of the tissue of the peri- vascular cords into the walls of the vessel; the microscopical exam- ination presents a great deal of evidence in support of this. One of the strongest points in favour of it is the fact that there are arterial as well as venous branches in such a relation to the perivascidar cords that at certain points the proper coat of the vessel appears to be completely supplanted by the morbid tissue, so that this latter nearly comes in contact with the lumen of the vessel. In one of the following pages we shall again see that the perivas- cular cords extend gradually also into the interalveolar tissue, and