65 GEANULATIONS DUE TO CATARRHAL PNEUMONIA. of the individual elements, by the fusion of which the giant cell has originated. It is of great importance to notice, where the giant cell shows these markings, i.e. where its substance shows a faint indication of being divided into territories, that to each of the latter belongs a nucleus, which is generally larger than any of those nuclei that lie irregularly scattered through that part of the giant cell that does not exhibit those markings. Hence it is very probable that several epithelial cells become gradually fused together, and while this fused protoplasmic mass continues to gTow, the nuclei of the original cells undergo division, and become irregularly distributed through the cell substance.' There exists, as far as I can see, no difficulty in assuming that the giant cells are, like other growing cells, able to perform amaBboid movement—their irregular shape certainly does suggest this—^and that they are able to take up other smaller elements. This last assumption may perhaps be taken as supported by the fact that not unfrequently the giant cell contains one or two small nucleated cells, either sticking simply in a peripheral portion of its substance or suspended in a larger or smaller spherical cavity, i.e. in a vacuole. The latter appearance may, however, be due to endoge- nous cell-formation. I am not in a position to decide which of the two is the true explanation. The changes of the alveolar epitheUum, in consequence of which, as had been stated before, the alveolar cavities become more or less filled, bear, according to my experience, a definite relation to the perivascidar cords. For not only do we find those changes taking place where the tissue of the perivascular cord encroaches on the alveolar septa of the surrounding parts, in consequence of which they (alveolar septa) become considerably thickened, but—(and this I think is of still greater importance)—these changes of the alveolar epithelium become the less marked the farther away from the peri- vascular cord. This is evidently the reason why the semi-transparent masses of the third category—viz. those corresponding to blocks of catarrhalic lobular pneumonia, or to ' lobular foci of desquamative pneumonia,' as Buhl calls them—possess, when examined under the microscope, rather indefinite outlines, the morbid parts merging more or less gradually into the surrounding healthy tissue.