INFLAMMATORY CHANGES OF THE PQLMONARy PLEURA. 41 small nuclei, whereas the normal endothelial cells contain each only- one large vesicular nucleus. Besides these changes, the pulmonary pleura of guinea-pigs suffering from artificial tuberculosis of long duration and induced througli the pleural cavity, contains very often nudular growths, which, as we shall see, stand in an intimate re- lation to the lympliatics. In these cases there are always found more or less numerous places where the germination of the endo- tlielium around tlie stomata appears to extend also in the depth, i.e. into the intermuscular lymph-spaces previously referred to; that is to say, one can find places where cells possessing all the characters of lymphoid cells may be traced from the surface, i.e. from among the germinating endothelial cells into the intermuscular lymph-spaces, which latter are more or less filled with them. To these appear- ances, howevej-, we shall have to return hereafter. In the course of chronic pytemia in rabbits and guinea-pigs that have been infected by injecting the septic matter into the pleui-al cavity, as well as in the course of artificial tuberculosis of guinea- pigs infected through the same place, the pulmonary pleura itself becomes the seat of inflammatory changes. Especially in guinea- pigs this takes place simultaneously with the development of nodular or patch-like growths, situated in the superficial parts of the lung itself. These inflammatory changes (of the pulmonary pleura) consist (a) in thickening of the matrix of the pleura, (6) in hyioertrophy of its muscles, and (c) in certain clianges of its lymphatics. All these changes are seen to take place over greater or smaller areas, corresponding more or less to those nodular or patch-like growths of the super- ficial parts of the lung. Where, in the course of the disease, these latter increase in number and size, the areas of inflamed pleura also enlarge. (a) The thickening of the matrix of the pulmonary plem-a con- sists, in the earlier stages, in an infiltration with lymphoid cells ; later on, the matrix is seen to contain considerable masses of fibrillar con- nective-tissue bundles, between which the lymph-canalicular system and Its lining connective-tissue cell-plates are very well seen (see Fig. 4). The former contains also, here and there, a lymphoid corpuscle.