ANATCWVIY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 4 oblong when seen sideways; so that it may be said that the nucleus is flattened in a direction parallel to the surface. I said before the endothelial cells are almost columnar in shape; to this it must be added that the tops of the individual endotlielial cells are rounded; that is to say, they are cemented together only in their deeper parts, whereas their more superficial parts are separated from each other by deep gaps (compare d in Fig. 1). Owing to this fact the appearance will be different when the superficial or the deeper parts of the endo- thelial cells are brought into focus ; for in the former case the endo- thelial cells appear as spherical bodies, separated from each other by broad furrows, in the latter case they appear like a continuous mosaic of cells, separated by thin intercellular lines (compare c and B in Fig. 1). (4) Besides the changes above mentioned it will be found that the endothelium of the pulmonary pleura of the collapsed lung stains more readily and more deeply with nitrate of silver than that of the distended lung. It will thus appear that we have the same differ- ences between the endothelium of the pulmonary pleura of the col- lapsed lung and that of the costal pleura, as between the upper sur- face of the ovary and the surrounding peritoneum, as described by Waldeyer in his work on the ovary and ovum. Just as on the ovary, so also on the pulmonary pleura of the collapsed lung the covering layer of cells gives one more the impression of an epithelium than of an endothelium. The difference between the endothelium of the pleura of the distended lung and that of the collapsed lung is, how- ever, only striking in guinea-pigs, in other animals (dog, cat, rat, and rabbit) it is distinct, but not so remarkable. The same is the case in man. One finds a marked difference, for instance, between the en- dothelium of the pleura pulmonum of a human foetus whose lungs have not yet breathed and that of a newborn child whose lungs are distended by air ; in the former case the endothelial cells are small and polyhedral, distinctly granular, and staining readily in nitrate of silver, whereas in the latter case they are flattened transparent plates, just like ordinary endothelial cells. The reason why the lung of guinea-pigs shows the difference with regard to the endothelium of the pleura in the distended and the collapsed lung so exquisitely well, is, I suppose, to be sought in the fact, that the lung of guinea-pigs