50 ANATOMY OF TlIE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Dr. Wilson Fox^^ after having spoken of th^ macroscopical ap- pearance of the miliary granulations permeating the lung of guinea- pigs that had been tuberculised, described the microscopic characters of those granulations in this manner: ' There are three main points in which they appear to originate. One of these is around the bronchi, another is around the blood-vessels, and another is in the tissue of the lungs, where no particular connection can be seen with either bronchi or vessels. Around the bronchi they seem to extend from little masses of a lymphatic character, which normally exist in the bronchial sheath, and which are abundant in the guinea-pig. . . . ' The other place in which they commonly originate is in the perivascular sheaths of the pulmonary arteries. Here the growth appears to be nothing more than an accumulation of the cells lining the perivascular canal. The growth may extend for a considerable distance in length along both the peribronchfal and perivascular sheaths; and from both these sources of origin a rapid extension ensues into the surrounding walls of the alveoli and smaller bronchi. A thickening of these is thus produced, and apparently by a double mode of growth, by a rapid development of fusiform cells at the margins, clusters of wliich are seen passing among the capillaries, and by an increase of rounder cells which are seen nearer the centre. Coincidently with this growth a change of great importance occurs in the capillaries of tlie lungs. Their nuclei enlarge, and the vessels, otherwise apparently unchanged, contain no more blood.' Thus it is seen that there exist certain important differences between the assertions of these two authors. "Whereas Dr. Sanderson distinguishes between peribronchial granulations (hyperplastic normal adenoid tissue), and semi-transparent miliary nodules (blocks of lobular catarrhal pneumonia). Dr. Fox regards all granulations per- meating the lung as analogous in appearance and in their structural character, being all semi-transparent and composed of lymphatic tissue. And besides, there is this additional diflference, that Dr. Fox describes the perivascular position of many granulations, which, to judge from the description, are comprised in the peribronchial ones of Dr. Sanderson. I have quoted so extensively from Dr. Sanderson's and Dr. Wilson