15 STOMATA AMONG THP] ENDOTHELIUM. McmLrancs, p. 49 et seq.), Eecklinghausen'* was the first to furnish tlie experimental proof of the existence of stomata on the peritoneal surface of the diaphragm ; Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel ^ made this probable also in liistological respect, and I have established the com- plete histological proof for those stomata which I regarded as the external openings of perpendicular lymphatic canals. This I have shown to be the case, not only for the central tendon of the diaphragm, but also for the omentum and peritoneum ; the conclusion being arrived at from the examination of those membranes in the normal and pathological condition. Previous to this Dybkovski'' has proved the existence of stomata most satisfactorily on the costal pleura, not only by very striking experiments, but also by microscopical examina- tion. I have farther pointed out, in the First Part of this work, that the stomata of the septum cisternae lymphaticae magnse of frogs, first described by Dogiel and Schweigger-Seidel,represent the openings of perpendicular lymph-canals lined by a special layer of endothelial cells generally of a germinating character. (See Fig. 3 in Part I.) Differing from these observations, Bizzozero^ denies the existence of stomata on the human peritoneum, as he has not succeeded in de- monstrating them on this membrane after hardening it in spirit and after preparing off the most superficial layer from the general matrix. According to this author the subendotheKal layer is a complete mem- brane, and it does not possess any interruptions of its continuity that may correspond to stomata. To these observations I will only add, that I am inclined to think it improbable that stomata could be de- monstrated in a serous membrane after hardening it. I will go a little farther than that; I venture to say that it is out of the ques- tion to demonstrate even lymphatic vessels in the omentum after hardening it in spirit, although I have demonstrated them in this membrane both in normal and in pathological conditions, in the fresh state as well as after staining it with nitrate of silver. Eanvier,^ who examined the stomata of the mesentery of the frog, arrived at con- clusions with regard to their structure which do not correspond alto- gether with those stated by Dogiel and Schweigger-Seidel for the stomata of the septum cisternse, or with those put forward by myself for the latter and for the stomata of the mesentery. Accordin<^ to