ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 26 agreement in its principal parts with the descriptions given by Axel Key and Eetzius,»^ Kyber,!^ Mihalkovics,'^ and others. To the assertions of Kyber we shall have to return by-and-by. In the experiments of Sikorsky mention has been made of car- mine particles penetrating between the epithelial cells of the bron- chial mucosa into the lymphatic system of the bronchus. A careful examination of the epithelium of the bronchial mucous membrane proves the existence of peculiar nucleated cells amongst the ordinary epithelial cells. In teased preparations and in sec- tions, especially in horizontal and oblique directions, of the bronchi in dogs, guinea-pigs, and, best of all, in rabbits, I found nucleated cells—apparently branched — which, from their general morpho- logical aspect, and from their mode of staining with staining fluids, are distinctly different from epithelial cells. First of all, in vertical sections they appear distinctly branched; that is to say, they possess a small body containing a small nucleus, and are drawn out into at least two processes, one directed towards tbe mucosa and one turned in the opposite direction towards the free surface, the cell-body lying for the most part nearer to the proper mucosa than to the free surfacfe. Secondly, these cells are conspicuous by their opacity being greater than that of the surround- ing epithelial cells, and by their small nucleus becoming much more deeply stained by hsematoxylin than the nucleus of an epithelial cell. That process of the cell that penetrates into the mucosa is generally single, but it may be seen to divide; at any rate, it forms a con- tinuity with the connective-tissue cells of the mucosa. The other process penetrates as a well-marked streak between the epithelial cells, and reaches up to the free surface. The appearance is quite different from that of mere intercellular cement substance, and the process may indeed be seen occasionally to give off from one or the other side a branchlet, which, becoming gradually thinner, seems to lose itself in the interepithelial cement substance. That these structures are, therefore, not epithelial cells is proved by their difference of shape, their refractive power, the character of their nucleus, and their mode of staining—in short, by all their morpho- logical characters. They present a very striking appearance in