EADICLES OP PEEIVASCULAR LYMPHATICS. 33 of rather broad canals which in some places, esiDecially iA the nodes of the network, possess lacunar distensions. By staining such prepara- tions with h£Ematoxylin, the nuclei of the transparent cell-plates lining this system of lymph-spaces are brought out (see Fig. 19). There cannot be the slightest doubt about this system being in direct com- munication with the ultimate perivascular lymphatic vessels, and therefore it may be quite correctly regarded as representing the rootlets of the latter. What has been stated in the foregoing with regard to the root- lets of the perivascular lymphatics holds good also for those branches of the sub-plural lymphatics Avhich, as we have seen in a former chapter, originate in the walls of tlie superficial alveoli. Precisely the same appearances are demonstrable in the latter, i.e. a lymph- canalicular system lined by connective-tissue corpuscles, and in con- nection with the radicles of the lymphatic vessels. As may have been akeady noticed, the description given here of the interalveolar lymph-canalicular system corresponds in its principal parts to that given by Wywodzoff and Sikorsky, with the difference, however, that the connective-tissue ceU-plates lining this system have been omitted altogether by those observers. There is one other point referring to the interalveolar lymph-canalicular system which may be worth while considering, viz. the appearance of it in silver preparations, as represented in Figs. 12 and 13. A great deal has been recently said for and against the method of demonstrating the lymph-canalicula. system by staining the tissue with nitrate of silver, and it is un- doubtedly true that in some instances a mistrust in its value is to a certain extent justified. But where the appearances produced by nitrate of silver can be controlled by other methods, as, for instance, in the case of the cornea, by the method of staining it with chloride of gold, or by injection, or by careful examination of sections of hardened tissues, this scepticism is not quite justifiable; and it IS still more unjustifiable to abandon the silver method as of no value whatever, as some recent observers have done. One thino- certainly may be said, which is, perhaps, not in its favour: it is a method which requires a great deal of attention, otherwise it is apt to mislead by producing very confused appearances. ,r