49 ARTIFICIAL TUBERCULOSIS IN GUINEA-PIGS. there are two kinds' of cellular elements, those of the one kind being at least twice as large as the other, and that the larger cells are grouped together in nests. "These nests correspond to the cavities of alveoli, and are, in fact, clumps of alveolar epithelium. They are distinguishable from the others not merely by their size and well-de- fined outline, but by the fact that most of them contain minute black pigment granules. ... ' The next stage in the morbid process consists in the fatty de- generation of the whole mass. It is this disintegrative change which gives rise to the appearance of white or yellowish opacity always ob- served in the centres of the larger nodules. Both the epithelial cells and the parietal new tissue alike participate in it. . . .' In the com'se of his inquiries Dr. Sanderson ascertained that there are normally masses of adenoid tissue in the wall of bronchioles, as has already been referred to in the second chapter ; so that the granulations Avhich have been spoken of previously as being found around the bronchioles in the earlier stage of the disease are, in fact, only the pre-existing structures in a hyperplastic condition. At the same time. Dr. Sanderson finds that the semi-transparent nodules, which have been so often compared with miliary tubercles, are not so analogous to these as to blocks of lobular catarrhal pneumonia. 'They owe their transparency not to the structural elements of tubercle, but to cells identical in size and appearance with the natural alveolar cells of the lung. ... In animals killed at an early stage of tuberculosis, that is to say, about fom- weeks after inocula- tion with tuberculous matter, no change is observed excepting that the peribronchia adenoid pulp is increased, or, in other words, that true miliary granulations are formed in the neighbourhood of the ter- minal bronchioles. This fact appears to afford the key to the mode in which the iron-grey nodules are produced. Whether the choking up of the air-cells is a merely mechanical result of the accumulation of adventitious matter around the bronchioles or of a catarrhal pro- cess, there can, I think, be little doubt that the granulation stands to the block of lobular pneumonia in the relation of cause to effect, and that when a kernel of adenoid pulp occupies the centre of a nodule the fact signifies that the nodule originated from it.'