63 GRANULATIONS DUE TO CATAEEHAL PNEUMONIA. velopment of the perivascular masses. The strength of this argu- ment is, however, weakened to a certain extent by the recent ob- servation I have made, to the effect that in a case of ' natural' tuberculosis of a guinea-pig there were no distinct changes to be found in the minor branches of the pulmonary blood-vessels, although most of them were ensheathed in adenoid cords. (c) The third kind of semi-transparent 'granulations'—which, as has been mentioned previously, are found abundantly in the super- ficial parts of the lung, and are of an irregular, occasionally of a more or less distinctly conical shape —owe their origin to catarrhal pneumonia, as correctly indicated by Sanderson. At the beginning of this section we have mentioned briefly their structure, having stated that they are composed of trabeculte and spaces; the former i-epresenting the thickened alveolar septa, the latter being the al- veoli and filled with products of the alveolar epithelium. The tra- beculai are in direct connection with perivascular cords ; in fact, the tissue of the latter is seen to encroach on the alveolar septa, whereby they become thickened. They seem to be composed of fibres, and include numerous lymphoid corpuscles. The reader will no doubt remember, from a previous description, that the thickened infiltrated trabeculiB of the superficial semi-transparent nodules stand in direct continuity with superficial lymjjhatics, the lumen of which has become replaced by cords of adenoid tissue. The same relation between the trabeculae and the lymphatic cords exists in all granulations of this category. With regard to the abnormal contents of the alveolar cavities in these structures, the examination of the earlier stages proves that it consists entirely of alveolar epithelial cells and their derivatives. To convince oneself as to this, it is sufficient to study attentively any good preparation illustrating a very early stuge—e.g. one repre- sented in Fig. 24. We find here that the adenoid tissue forming the perivascular cord c (cut transversely) encroaches on the interalveolar tissue; that is to say, that this latter shows similar structural elements to the former, both forming at the same time a continuity. The epithelial cells lining the alveolar cavities are seen in most places to