ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. dren that died from acute miliary tuberculosis. With the exception of one—in which the diagnosis had been uncertain whether enteric fever or acute miliary tuberculosis—all cases were well-marked ex- amples of the disease. Two out of the seven cases were in so far distinguished that in both the lungs were permeated in all directions by very numerous grey tubercles, the outlines of which were, how- ever, not very sharp. In the other five cases the tubercles of the lung were only of a limited abundance. In all seven cases there were tubercles on the pleura pulmonis, in the spleen, omentum, liver, and kidneys. The mesenteric glands were enlarged and congested. In clinical respect they were, with the exception of the one case mentioned before, diagnosed readily as acute miliary tuberculosis. The microscopic examination proved that in the first two cases, just referred to, the tubercles of the lung were due to what coincides, according to Buhl's description, with desquamative pneumonia. It was, namely, found that the abnormal masses correspond to groups of alveoli (and infundibula), being filled with and distended by a fibrinous material that contains granules and small cells. Grenerally these latter occupy the centre of the alveoli, and are more numerous in the alveoli nearest to the centre of the tubercle. The structure of the alveolar wall is hardly distinguishable, and its capillary blood- vessels not permeable, as is shown by the fact that in well injected (artificially) specimens the injection does not extend into those capil- laries. The alveoli next to the tubercle contain a similar fibrinous material, but are not filled with it completely, for their epithelium can be distinctly recognised, the individual cells being somewhat enlarged, and many of them detached. Some of the cells contain two nuclei. Into these parts the injection material did, however, penetrate ; for the capillary blood-vessels of these alveoli are seen to be more or less perfectly injected. Still further away from the tubercle the alveoli contain either a small amount of fibrinous material, besides isolated young cells, or a homogeneous substance which stains faintly with hsematoxylin. The epithelium is here very distinct, its cells granular. In some of the alveoli the epithelial membrane is found more or less detached, and the capillary blood-vessels always per- fectly permeable (Fig. XXV.).