ACUTE MILIARY TUBERCULOSIS. 73 All througli both lungs the nodules show the same histological characters. There was no trace of giant cells anywhere. In the spleen of the same two cases the tubercles were seen to be of a com- pletely different character; here they were due to necrosis of the tissue of the spleen. Every tubercle contained, either in its peri- phery or near its centre, the residue of an arterial branch blocked up by a granular debris. The great mass of the tubercle was also a mere debris, in which, in many places, the outlines of the elements of the splenic tissue could be just descried. There were numerous tubercles, in the periphery of which giant cells of different sizes had already made their appearance. Thus I presume the tubercular masses of the spleen in these two cases were due to necrosis of the tissue of the spleen (probably at first only that of the lymphoid tissue of the arterial sheaths), caused by embolism of the corresponding arterial branch. Those tubercles, at the periphery of which the giant cells are present, are probably those that ai'e further advanced. In others of the examined cases the tubercles of the lung- were seen to differ in their structure from those in the former series, in the following respects:—1. In some of them there is a distinct cell-infiltration of the tissue around the nodule; this latter repre- senting, as in the former case, a number of alveoli very much distended by fibrinous material, which includes granules and small cellular elements. 2. The trabeculae—i.e. the interalveolar tissue of the peripheral parts of the tubercle—are slightly thickened, and contain lymphoid cells. The capillary blood-vessels are, even here, not yet completely permeable, and therefore not easy to distin- guish. The same lung contains tubercles, of which only the central portion—i.e. the alveoli situated nearest to the centre—are of the same condition as those iu the first series (viz. being distended by, and filled with, fibrinous material); whereas the alveoli of the peri- pheral part do not contain the fibrinous material any longer, but are occupied in one or other of the following ways:—First, by sphe- rical or irregular-shaped nucleated elements, many of which can be still recognised as epithelial cells by their size, granulation, and