2S ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. being held as close as possible to the anterior wall of the chest, the fliud is discharged into the pleural cavity. The canula is then withdrawn, and the animal is left to itself. As the incision in the skin is very small the external wound heals up very soon; generally after one or two days it is hardly to be detected. In this way the injection of any fluid and in any quantity can be effected with great ease in a very short time, and without any danger of injuring the lung, provided that the animal is kepi quiet during the injection. In acute pleuritis of short duration—24 to 72 hours—the endo- thelium covering the pulmonary pleura shows only relatively little change. This consists chiefly in the following: the endothelial cells are more opaque and more distinctly granular than in the normal condition; now and then one meets with an endothelial cell, the nucleus of which possesses two nucleoli, and shows a more or less deep constriction. If, however, the animal is allowed to live longer than three days, it is found that many of the endothelial cells have become more polyhedral, or even short columnar, and that also their nucleus may be found in all stages of division; there are even endothelial cells the nucleus of which has divided into three small nuclei. In several rabbits, in which pleuritis had been produced by injecting septic pus, obtained from metastatic pygemic abscesses of dogs or guinea-pigs, in the manner above described, it has been found on examining, several days after, the surface of the pulmonary plem-a in horizontal microscopic sections, obtained from the lung in the moderately distended condition, that the endothelium exhibited distinct changes only at certain spots. These changes consisted in there being small groups of polyhedral granular endothelial cells amongst the common transparent flattened endothelial cells. In ad- dition to these cells being granular, their nucleus showed more or less distinct constrictions; in other words, groups of endothelial cells are found in the germinative condition. On closer examination it was further observed that the endothelial cells of these groups were arranged more or less regularly round a common centre. Now, this centre is of the greatest diagnostic importance; either it was seen to represent a distinct hole of larger or smaller diameter, or a band of fibrin of varying thickness could be traced for a longer or shorter