57 DEVELOPMENT OF PERIVASCULAE CORDS. The point of principal importance to us is that of the development of the perivascular cords. In order to study this, it is natm-ally necessary to begin the examination with early cases. Once ac- quainted with the appearances presented by the perivascular cords in their earliest stages, one is able to find similar appearances also in cases further advanced. Now, what are these appearances ? In a former chapter mention has been made of the fact that in artificial tuberculosis the perivascular lymphatics are found to be distended and filled with plasma and lymph-corpuscles (see Figs. 14, 15, 16, and 21). According to my experience, this represents the first step towards the formation of the perivascular cords. For it is not difficult to find other places where more or less numerous fibres— at some points provided with a nucleus—are seen to be in connection with the endothelial wall of those lymphatics (lymph-vessels as well as lymph-spaces), and to extend into the lumen of the lymphatic between the lymphoid cells contained in it. But also outwards, i.d into the surrounding interalveolar tissue, such fibres are seen to penetrate. At some places, especially where the number of lymphoid cells contained in the lymphatic is not a large one, the number of fibres coming off from the endothelial wall is very limited, so that the meshes formed by their anastomosis contain relatively large groups of the lymphoid cells ; whereas in other places, in which the development has farther advanced, the fibres have become so nu- merous that their network quite resembles that of adenoid tissue in its density, their meshes having only a very limited number of lymph-cells. As has been stated already, the perivascular cords in the earlier stages represent true adenoid tissue ensheathing the minor branches of the pulmonary blood-vessels to a various extent, and I have very little doubt that the perivascular cords in general develop in the nianner mentioned above, i.e. the perivascular lymphatics become filled with lymphoid cells, between which, and in connection with the endothelial lining of those lymphatics, a reticulum of fibres makes its appearance, thus converting the lymphatics into cords of adenoid tissue. We have here before us that kind of structure which, in the First Part of this work, I termed endolymphangeal cord. With the very same thing we have become acquainted at the