ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 52 change is gradually established in all the semi-transparent granula- tions of the superficial parts of the lung. In the depth of the lung there are only few granulations, the central parts of which become the seat of a retrograde change. It may be noticed on careful dissection that the nodular shape is possessed by the granulations on and near the surface, and also by some in the depth of the lung. The latter may be seen to be of two kinds, when examined in a tliick vertical section through the lung of an advanced case, under a low magnifying power; first, most of the nodules of the surface cor- respond to consolidations of a more or less distinct conical shape, having its basis on the surface, and its apex, or that part correspond- ing to the apex, directed towards the depth ; secondly, farther away from the surface the nodules have either an irregular shape, or they are of a spherical or oblong shape. Both the superficial nodules and the deep irregular ones, when magnified, are seen to possess very indefinite outlines, becoming, in fact, gradually blended with the surrounding healthy parts. The spherical or oblong nodules that we mentioned just now, possess, on the other hand, a well-defined outline ; and besides, they are always in connection with the wall of a bronchiole, as will be described hereafter. They are quite different also in their structure from the first-named granulations. As 'a further difference I have to mention that, as far as I have been able to ascertain, only the first kind of nodules, viz. the conical and irregular ones, become the seat of the necrotic changes, i.e. caseation; the well-defined ones, viz. those in connection with the bronchioles and bronchi, do not undergo such a change. Nor have I ever seen the cordlike granulations, which I mentioned previously, undergo the necrotic change; at least, not in lungs which—to judge from the size and number of the granu- lations, the extent of consolidation, the changes in the bronchial glands and other viscera—were considerably advanced in the morbid process. By saying this I do not question for a moment the possi- bility of all kinds of granulations being liable to undergo the process of caseation, as asserted by Dr. Sanderson and Dr. Wilson Fox; what I maintain is, that in ordinary cases, which are not too far advanced, only the one kind of nodules undergoes the necrotic