ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 74 nucleus. The larger ones contain two, three, and more nuclei. In these places the interalveolar trabeculse are thickened in a very marked manner, containing amongst nucleated fibres—connected with and crossing each other—small lymphoid corpuscles, the nuclei of which stain very readily with logwood or carmine. Or, secondly, they are filled by one large multinuclear mass or giant cell. This contains the nuclei either regularly distributed in its periphery, or they are all crowded together about the central part. The nuclei stain readily, are sharply outlined, and contain one or two nucleoli; they are of different sizes, generally larger than those of lymphoid cells. The substance of the giant cell is very regularly granular, and is tinted slighly yellowish. This is especially well brought out in sections stained with haematoxylin. The cell-svibstance does not stain either with hsematoxylin or carmine. As a rule the giant cell is embedded in, and connected with, retiform (interalveolar) tissue. Thus the appearance of a reticular giant-cell tubercle is produced, as described at the beginning of this chapter. From the foregoing the reader has, no doubt, perceived that I hold that the tubercles of the second series—i.e. those described last —represent later stages of development of those of the first series, the fibrinous exudation filling up the alveoli gradually disappearing —i.e. being most probably absorbed by the surrounding tissue, which is in a state of increased activity, as shown by the infiltration and distended blood-vessels—and becoming replaced by groups of cells (most of them being offsprings of the alveolar epithelium), or by one multinuclear mass or giant cell. The interalveolar tissue is thickened (commencing from the periphery), and transformed into a retiform tissue, which contains also lymphoid corpuscles. The central part of the tubercle is the one in which the fibrinous exudation disappears latest from the alveoli, and is replaced by giant cells surrounded by retiform tissue and lymphoid corpuscles; so that finally we get a tubercle which contains, corresponding to almost all the alveoli comprised in the nodule, larger or smaller giant cells sur- rounded by retiform tissue. Compare Fig. XXVI. and explanation of it. That most of the former are really in anatomical continuity with