ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 30 that the connective-tissue sui^porting the artery is composed of deli- cate bundles of fibrillar tissue, which have a loosely fenestrated and wide-meshed arrangement. These meshes correspond naturally to the interfascicular spaces of other loose connective-tissues, and they are lined by the connective-tissue corpuscles that cover the bundles, as if by an endothelium. I refer the reader to Fig. 14. The perivas- cular lymph-spaces are best seen in lungs of guinea-pigs suffering slightly from artificial tuberculosis, for in these cases they appear dilated and filled with a material which, in hardened specimens, pos- sesses a granular appearance ; in this material lymphoid corpuscles are found occasionally imbedded. Such lymphatic spaces are found in the surrounding connective- tissue both of large and small arteries; in the large arteries, however, there are more of the regular lymphatic tubes and fewer of the lymph- atic spaces, while in the small arteries the reverse is the case. But it must be clearly understood that in the small vessels also there are regular lymphatic tubes; only, as a rule, the lymphatics are more commonly represented by a communicating system of simple inter- fascicular lacunse. In specimens in which the lymphatics have been injected, it is clearly to be seen that both the true lymphatic tubes and the lymphatic lacunas form one communicating system, and are therefore in no way different from what we find in lymphatic glands. Precisely the same arrangement has been described by Kyber with regard to the lymphatics around the large branches of the splenic artery, and I will refer the reader to his paper and illustrations. There is one point with regard to the branches themselves of the pulmonary artery, which may be here mentioned, and which I think has not been noticed hitherto. It is with reference to the muscular coat. In the lung of guinea-pigs the muscular coat of the branches of the pulmonary artery is different from that of other arteries, being in the former not a continuous membrane composed of circular un- striped muscle-fibres, but having in many places the muscular fibres grouped together in distinct bundles separated by connective-tissue in such a manner that the muscular coat is discontinuous, and is wanting from place to place. The bundles are moi'eover very unequal in diameter. Some branches have at certain places a relatively very