^ ANATOMY OF TllK LYMrilATIC SYSTEM. fully described in the First Part of this work. Now, it is only in the inspiratory condition that the endothelial cells covering the pulmo- nary pleura are flattened like other endothelial cells; they are quite different during expiration. During inspiration the endothelium of the pleura has to cover a much greater area than during expiration ; the lung occupying, in the latter case, a much smaller volume, and consequently also presenting a much smaller external surface than in the condition of inspiration. It is, therefore, a matter of absolute necessity that all those parts that are in a permanent connection with the surface of the hmg as a whole, should undergo corresponding changes in the conditions of in- and expiration. What are the changes that the endothelium of the pulmonary pleura undergoes ? To study them I proceed in this manner. The lungs of a freshly killed guinea-pig are moderately distended by injecting air into them through the trachea, and, while kept in that condition by placing a ligature round the root of the trachea, they are dipped into a weak solution of nitrate of silver to ^ per cent.) and allowed to remain there for a few minutes, after which they are washed in distilled water for a shert time, and then hardened in spirit. In this manner horizontal sections can be obtained from the surface, which, after being washed in water, are mounted in glycerine and then subjected to microscopical examination. The surface is then seen to be covered with the well-known network of dark lines (silver lines), which, as is now generally admitted, correspond to the intercellular cement-substance of the endothelium. Here and there the substance of the individual endothelial cells has become conspicuous by the presence of brownish granules, and like- wise a clear nucleus of a circular shape, situated excentrically, may be distinguished in many of them. The nuclei may be brought out very prominently by placing the sections, before mounting them, in a weak solution of hsematoxylin,* to which a few drops of spirit have been previously added. When viewed in profile, as may be done in folds which present themselves here and there in the section, the general surface is seen to be not quite smooth, but slightly notched * For the preparation of the solution of hscniatoxylin, soo the ' Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Sciouco,' October 1873.