ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. losis, for in these cases the lymphatics are found to be in many places distended by lymph and therefore discernible. In addition to these, it happened that in a few cases in which I injected the blood- vessels with Berlin blue under a high pressure, also the perivascular lymphatics of some portions of the lung were found to be filled with this fluid. A third kind of examination, that has yielded satisfactory results, consisted in first injecting a very diluted solution of nitrate of silver (i to ^ per cent.) under high pressure into the blood- vessels of the guinea-pig's lung, and then freezing it in order to make sections; these were then treated like ordinary silver-stained objects. The ultimate branches of the pulmonary artery and vein are like- wise accompanied by true lymphatic vessels, and it is these vessels that take up the lymphatic rootlets situated in the tissue between the alveoli, i.e. in the alveolar septa. The alveolar septa of the lung of guinea-pigs, which I have chiefly examined with regard to those rootlets, contain besides the well-known system of capillary vessels, also connective-tissue and elastic fibres. The latter are not very numerous; they are chiefly isolated fibres, branching so as to form a network. As a rule, they twine round the capillary blood-vessels. The connective-tissue appears in the form of transparent nucleated cells of the same character as ordinary con- nective-tissue corpuscles, namely, as flattened cell-plates. These cell- plates are provided with processes, by means of which they form a net- work. To the connective-tissue cell-plates correspond spaces of the shape of more or less irregular lacunae ; that is to say, the cell-plates line a system of spaces situated between the capillary blood-vessels and analogous to the lymph-canalicular system of other parts. In preparations stained with nitrate of silver (either in the manner above stated, or cut simply from frozen lung and dipped in solution of nitrate of silver, and then treated in the ordinary manner), the lymph-spaces are brought out as a system of irregular lacunae communicating by fine canals, just as those seen in the cornea after treatment with nitrate of silver. The lymph-canalicular system is seen in such pre- parations of the lung to be situated in the walls of the alveoli (see figs. 12, 13). In injected preparations, however, the lymph-cana- licular system appears, probably owing to distension, to be a network