ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIO SYSTEM. of this work I have stated, contrary to the assertions of some recent tubes are scarce at some distance from the adventitia, the chief mode of arrangement of the rootlets of the lymphatics being here merely that of lymph-spaces. These bear the same relation to the ground-substance as the lymph-canalicular system or the inter- fascicular lymph-spaces of other connective-tissues; that is to say,there exists a system of communicating spaces in the mucosa, in the mus- cular coat, and the tissue next to the external surface of the latter, which are merely interfascicular spaces, i.e. spaces between the bundles constituting the matrix. The size of these spaces depends entirely on the amount of separation of the contiguous bundles. These inter- fascicular spaces are, as a rule, much smaller in the proper mucosa than outside the muscular coat, i.e. in the adventitia, the bundles of the matrix lying more densely together in the former than in the latter. Moreover, the spaces found in the mucosa are much more like a regular lymph-canalicular system, consisting of lacunae and anastomosing canals; whereas, in the loose tissue of the adventitia, they resemble more elongated or rhombic spaces, connected only by a few short canals. This difference is, as far as I can see, due to the bundles being arranged in the former place more like a felt, in the latter more like a fenestrated membrane. The inter- fascicular lymph-spaces are at the same time the spaces in which the connective-tissue corpuscles are found, the latter being, as is now admitted by most histologists, only linings of the bundles bordering the lymph-spaces. As the lymph canalicular system is in open com- munication with the lymphatic vessels of the bronchial adventitia, it necessarily follows that also the connective-tissue corpuscles are directly continuous with the endothelium forming the wall of the lymphatic vessels. This fact has been fully treated in the First Part of this work. Another question is, whether the flattened connective- tissue corpuscles lining the interfascicular lymph-spaces are branched cells like those of the cornea, or whether they are more of the shape of true .endothelial cells, viz. unbranched cell-plates arranged in a continuous row, and held together by an intercellular substance appearing as lines between the cells, just as on the surface of a serous membrane, or on the wall of a lymphatic vessel. In the First Part