27 INTEEEPITHELIAL UONNECTIVE-TISSUE COEPUSCLES. horizontal sections through the mucosa of a bronchus, as represented in fig. 9, where they are viewed from the surface; the difference between them and the surrounding epithelial cells is very obvious. It has been just mentioned, that these interepithelial structures are continuous with the subepithelial connective-tissue, and it might be, perhaps, suggested that they are, after all, epithelial cells in con- nection with connective-tissue corpuscles, similar to those described by Heidenhain, Huxley, Key, Billroth, and others. This view I cannot accept, for the simple reason, that these structures are so strikingly different from epithelial cells in their morphological characters; on the contrary, I must maintain that their connection with connective-tissue corpuscles proves them to be interepithelial connective-tissue cells. The important question now presents itself, what is their physiological value ? In the serous membranes I have pointed out a cellular tissue that on the one hand reaches up to the free surface of the serous membrane between the covering endo- thelium, and on the other hand is in anatomical continuity with the connective-tissue cell-plates of the matrix. These interendothelial cells I have called pseudo-stomatous tissue, for the reason that, while a true stoma is an actual canal leading free from the surface of the serous membrane into a superficial lymphatic vessel, these so-called pseudo-stomatous connective-tissue cells occupy a corresponding- system of spaces which, in the natm^al condition, do not form open communications between the surface and the interfascicular lymph- canal system containing the connective cells of the matrix. Under certain circumstances, indeed, as when distended, they may be con- verted into free passages between the two. This pseudostomatous tissue is, as I have pointed out in the First Part of this work, of great importance in the normal as well as in the pathological condition ; and it is with precisely the same relative structures that we have to do in the bronchial mucous membrane. The reader will already have perceived that the interepithelial connective-tissue cells, previously described, correspond to such pseudo-stomatous tissue, that is, to a tissue forming a connection between the free surface and the con- nective-tissue cells of the mucosa. This may be expressed also by saying that the spaces in which the pseudo-stomatous cells lie are the