70 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. assumes mother-cells (Brutzellen) in the blood, which arise from coagulated fihrin, and which become surrounded by germinating endothelial cells of the blood-vessel. In this case—Buhl goes on to say—the giant cells must be derived either from colourless blood- corpuscles, which, however, as far as I know, possess no such high germinative energy,* or one of the endothelial cells of the vessel must have become greatly enlarged—which Schiippel himself does not assume, finding the germinating endothelial cells only around the mother-cells; or, finally, it is necessary to assume that proto- plasmic lumps, circulating in the vascular system, are stopped in certain capillary vessels, and grow into giant cells; this is a hypothesis which could not be admitted for many practical and theoretical reasons.' 'These deductions are directed also against the doctrine of Wal- denburg, . . . who maintains that capillary emboli, produced by corpuscular elements, form the nucleus of the formation of tubercle.' Having further described the regressive changes of miliary tubercle in general. Buhl goes on to say that all this applies like- wise to miliary tubercle of the lung. With regard to acute miliary tuberculosis of the lung. Buhl asserts that it ' is a desquamative pneumonia' (lobular catarrhal pneumonia auct.),' which differs from the true genuine kind in so far that, among the germinating epithelium of the alveolar wall also giant cells make their appearance, and that consequently the tubercle is situated from the beginning in the cavity of the alveolus; further on also miliary tubercles become developed, by local infection, in the swollen trabeculas, these being the seat of a new formation of connective-tissue elements.' A similar assertion is made by Hering, who maintains that ' those cases which are generally designated as acute miliary tuber- culosis of the lung, and are distinguished by their rapid, commonly lethal course, are not due ... to tuberculosis, but are caused by disseminated acute catarrhal pneumonia.' In the same work, which, with reference to miliary tuberculosis * Tins argiimont has lost much of its strength, after tlie very interesting obsrrvations of Ziegler (O^ntralbJatt fiir med. Wiss. No. 51-58, 1874), -Nvho finds that true giant cells may be formed hy emigrated coloiirless blood-corpuscles.